 

   

COMBINED SPECIAL EDI:Ir0N

he Ring-tum Phi & The Trident

Thursday, April 1, 2004

Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450

White Book bafﬂes students, EC

' By Mehul Srivastava

Confusion about provisions in Washington and Lee's
White Book, and reported threats from the Executive
Committee about breaches of conﬁdentiality forced
campus newspapers Wednesday to cancel reports detail-
ing the honor hearings involving a W&L student.

Primary sources for the story claimed they were
threatened by the EC for disclosing conﬁdential infor-
mation to a reporter. The EC, including President Helen
Hughes, has denied any such threats.

Subsequent interviews with EC members, the student
involved, and charac-

suspension for students who break the agreement.

2006 Law School Representative Dannel Duddy
expressed his frustration with the confusion about the
rules.

“I am not familiar with the rule, and I don’t really
understand it," he said, later adding. “I think students
should be informed of the conﬁdentiality clause when
they are undergoing the introduction to the Honor
System.”

Another member admitted to never actually reading
the statement.

“During the hearings, I am usually positioned at an

angle where I can’t

ter witnesses reveal
widespread inconsis-
tencies in their inter-
pretations about the
rules, prompting one
EC member, Marie
Trimble, to concede
that “this is some-
thing the White Book
Committee needs to
take a look at."

The rule in ques-
tion is the conﬁden-
tiality agreement that
all students accept as
binding when they
sign the White Card
during freshman ori-
entation.

Anne Johansen,
secretary of the EC ,
said that as far as she
understands the rules,
the accused is free to
speak to whomever
he wants, since it is
his reputation at
stake.

7fIi]3
HONOR SYSTEM

 

Washington and Lee University
2003-2004

see the agreement,”
said Cristin Nunez, a
member ofthe EC. “I
have never actually
read one.”

Hughes consistent-
ly refused to answer
questions about the
confusion amongst
EC members.

The lack of agree-
ment, even under-
standing, by the EC
members has left
other students
involved in the
process unclear about
their responsibilities.

“To be honest, at
the time, I didn’t
really get what it was
about,” said Kevin
Coppersmith, a stu-
dent who appeared as
a character witness
for this case. “They
gave me a sheet of
paper, and I signed

“It really is for the
safety of the student,"
she said in a telephone interview. "The way I see it, the
conﬁdentiality agreement is binding on the members of
the EC, but as for the student, he is free to talk.“

Other members of the EC contradicted her statement.
most giving different readings of the White Book pas-
sages.

“I believe that the conﬁdentiality agreement applies to
the entire student body,” said Lane Morgan, Class of
2007 representative. “Out of respect for the system,
nobody, even the witnesses, the accused or friends of the
accused should speak about the facts of the case."

Unlike Johansen, Morgan said that if campus newspa-
pers published detailed reports about the case, they
would have been in violation of the conﬁdentiality
agreement, and open to punishment. The White Book
recommends social probation, academic probation and

it."

EC members insist
that Coppersmith was free to ask questions during the
hearing, but Coppersmith says he was too emotional to
understand what he was being told.

While the speciﬁcs of this case appear to show that
the student involved was, in fact, guilty, the lack of clar-
ity in the process, and the inconsistent understanding of
the rules, even by EC members. raises legitimate ques-
tions about other trials at Washington and Lee.

EC representative Marie Trimble said that since stu-
dents misunderstand, or willfully disobey the conﬁden-
tiality agreements, every honor violation hearing leads
to rumors and confusion that the EC can do little to dis-
pel.

“Everybody is bothered that the EC always says ‘no
comment,”’ Trimble said, “but we are not commenting
because we are bound by the system."

Special Edition

By Kaylee Hartung

After the recent withdrawal of a
student facing an open student
body hearing, confusion in regard
to the Executive Committee's
interpretation of the White Book
and its administrative process has
raised concern amongst the stu-
dent body.

Administrative matters for EC
hearings and student body hear-
ings are outlined in the White
Book, the Honor System's hand-
book.

With the last student body heat-
ing held nine years ago, the con-
troversy surrounding a student
body hearing is relatively new to
the current W&L community. EC
members refrained from com-
menting.

The White Book requires the
EC to inform the accused of the
charges presented against them at
least 48 hours before the sched-
uled EC hearing. All time ﬁames
exclude weekends and holidays.
But is 48 hours enough time to
prepare for an Executive
Committee or student body hear-
ing? Forrner EC Vice President
and current honor advocate Kevin
White says no.

“It is ridiculous that students are
only given two days to prepare for
a hearing," said White. "In actual-
ity, the EC gives the accused more
time, but the time given is still
insufﬁcient."

"I don't think the EC under-
stands the amount of time that is
required to build an effective
defense," said White. He acknowl-
edged that as a member of the EC
he also took for granted the
amount of time necessary to craﬂ
a solid defense.

White now sees things from a
different perspective while serv-
ing as an honor advocate as
opposed to an EC member. He
said he believes the EC needs to
increase the time allotted for stu-

dents and their defense to prepare
for EC hearings. White has debat-
ed proposing an amendment to the
White Book during Spring Term.

Gauging the amount of time
necessary to prepare a defense is a
difﬁcult task. Outside of fact-gath-
ering and pre-trial preparation,
students must also prepare them-
selves psychologically.

EC President-elect Marie
Trimble disagrees with White's
opinion. She supports the 48-hour
rule.

"You don't need more than 48
hours to prepare the truth," said
Trimble. "The goal of the Honor
System is to ﬁnd the truth. This is
a fact-ﬁnding process and we are
trying to find the truth. We are not
out to get a student. We're going
off people's honor that they want
us to ﬁnd the tnrth as badly as we
do."

In the aforementioned case, an
anonymous source has said the
accused was formally charged by
the EC on March 1. The hearing
was initially scheduled for March
4, but the accused was granted a
two-week extension due to exten-
uating circumstances. The EC
hearing was eventually held on
March 16. The guilty verdict was
handed down in the early hours of
the next day.

After a student is convicted of
an honor violation in an EC hear-
ing, the student is allowed 72
hours to submit an appeal, unless
otherwise speciﬁed by the presi-
dent of the EC. According to an
anonymous source, the accused
was again granted an extension,

[this time in order to allow time for
a meeting with University

President Thomas Burish on
March 22.
After a meeting with Burish, the
accused notiﬁed the EC that an
appeal to reopen the case would
be submitted. The appeal was om-
cially ﬁled on March 25 and
denied later that day by the EC.

Enough time?

Fomier EC vice president questions student heating process

If the student then appeals for a
second time to a student body
hearing, the selected student chair
of the case is required to announce
the date of the student body hear-
ing within ﬁve days after the
appeal is made.

An anonymous source said the
accused was notiﬁed on Monday
that the hearing would be held less
than three days later on Thursday
at 8 a.m. According to the White
Book, the time period between the
announcement of the hearing and
the hearing must be within ﬁve
days; however, this time period
may be extended under the discre-
tion ofthe chair.

The accused withdrew from the

university on Wednesday.
White and Trimble could not com-
ment on the administrative
process of a student body hearing
because neither student had prior
experience with such a hearing.

The EC had the option to extend
the time period within which to
hold the student body hearing, but
chose not to exercise that power. If
the accused student had been
declared guilty by the jury during
the student body hearing, the stu-
dent's winter credits would have
been nulliﬁed because the original
verdict was decided upon before
the end of Winter Term.

Potential jurors were contacted
Tuesday, the day after the accused
was informed of the date of the
hearing and two days before the
hearing date.

There are no conditions in the
White Book to specify the EC’s
terms upon which they must
announce a student body hearing
to the student body. In the recent
incident, students were not ofﬁ-
cially made aware of the hearing
until ll:43 a.m. on the day prior to
the hearing.

EC members refused to com-
ment on why the university com-
munity was not informed earlier
of the hearing.

Accused says Security threatened conﬁdentiality

By Tyler Archie

A preemptive investigation by
Washington and Lee security may
have undermined the conﬁdentiality
of the recent Executive Committee's
investigation ofan Honor Violation.
The breach of conﬁdentiality raises
questions regarding the EC’s ability
to address rumors of the case circu-
lating in the student body.

According to the accused student,
who has since withdrawn, he failed
to retum a Traveler van on time the
weekend ofJan. 9.

The incident took on greater sig-
niﬁcance when W&L security offi-
cer Steve Tomlinson, a member of
the Traveler management board,
took issue with the van’s late arrival.
and the accuser‘s version of that
story, later that month on Jan. 27.

The student in question then con-

ﬁded to roommates about the con-
frontation, before he knew that “it
was in any way related to an honor
violation.”

Any student involved in an EC
investigation is bound by conﬁden-
tiality, per the White Book. Since
W&L security and faculty are not
bound by the Honor System, the
January investigation was less than
airtight. Anyone questioned during
that time could have openly talked
about what happened.

“Conﬁdentiality doesn't work in
practice because people talk to their
friends, and from there it mush-
rooms," said former EC member
Jeremiah Mcwilliams.

"I found out from my roommate,
who heard from a friend that securi-
ty 'was pursuing the matter as an
HV...and had turned it in," said the
accused. who was supposed to have

knowledge ofthe EC’s investigation
only in the 48 hours leading up to
his closed hearing.

At this point the accused contact-
ed the “appropriate faculty" to dis-
cuss the matter.

In the absence of conﬁdentiality, the
EC went about answering all queries
by students into the matter with a uni-
ﬁed stance of “no comment"

“The EC is very concerned with
protecting the EC," said former EC
member Jeremiah McWilliams.
“There are ways of letting people
know (about investigations) without
harming the student."

However, rumors left the accused
vulnerable in the forum of public
opinion.

“If anything (the loss ofconﬁden-
tiality) hurts him, because the dam-
age to his reputation can't be
repaired," said McWilliarns.

Facing the prospect of a jury com-
prised of the student body later in
the process, public opinion and
I’LLITIOI' were certainly a concern for
the accused. However, once he was
included in the EC investigation,
addressing these rumors was impos-
sible for the accused due to the
White Book's conﬁdentiality
requirement.

“How are you supposed to deal
with that emotionally," questioned a
roommate of the accused. “If (he)
weren't as strong a character, he
would have jumped off a bridge by
now."

Similarly, EC President Helen
Hughes was careful with her words
and exhausted by the week's events.

“This has been a learning process
for us all.”

Phil Walotrky, Kaylee Hanwtgand Geoﬂ
Rogow contributed to this report

E-mail angers students
By Geoff Rogow

When a letter from the Executive Committee reached the Washington
and Lee community by e-mail yesterday morning, few students were sur-
prised to see the news. Contradicting the EC ‘s foundation in secrecy, the
rumor mill had already spread infonnation on the case throughout the
university.

What was surprising to many students was the EC prohibited a laun-
dry list of items from entering Lee Chapel during the trial.

“My ﬁrst reaction was that it was ridiculous. None of us have seen an
open trial before, and students should be allowed to take notes and see
how the EC handles it," said former EC Class of 2005 representative
Jeremiah McWilliams.

EC President Helen Hughes said the committee receives all of their
cues directly from the White Book. McWilliams, who decided not to run
for reelection because he did not have enough time, said he could not
ﬁnd any information in the White Book stating these items should be
prohibited.

One relevant clause from Section III: Administrative Matters says,
“No information about the Student Body Hearing is allowed outside the
Washington and Lee community."

See E-mail, page 2

Complicated jury selection process clariﬁed

By Andrew Latimer

Despite instructions from the Executive Committee to
keep jury details conﬁdential, several students have
come forward with information regarding thejury selec-
tion process that took place in anticipation of the now-
aborted student body hearing slated for April I.

Calls forjurors began in earnest at some time around
noon on Tuesday after the University Registrar fur-
nished the Executive Committee and Sergeant—at—Anns
Daniel Wolf ‘O4L with a randomized list of 75 universi-
ty students and their contact information.

Those selected were told the date of the hearing but
were not instructed over the phone about any aspects of
conﬁdentiality. Some chose to disclose news of their
selection to friends in the period between the call and
the interview.

Questioning was described as organized and curt.
Most questions were pre-prepared, and neither side
seemed to exhaust their supplies in the allotted time.

    

...' (Isa

JAl‘vlES G. LEVBURN Lllx3é1Eﬁ:Y

Central EC questions focused on deﬁnitions of the
honor system and what constitutes a breach of commu-
nity trust.

Interviews were conducted starting in the late aﬁer-
noon in the jury room adjacent to the Moot Courtroom
of the Law School. They continued until the three advo-
cates of the EC and four of the accused settled upon and
selected 12 student jurors and two alternates.

Prospective jurors were instructed at the outset of
their 10-minute interviews by student body hearing
Chair Evan Sauda ‘04L to hold details regarding ques-
tioning and any information about the case conﬁdential.
In accordance with White Book procedure, Sauda read
the names of the accused and witnesses and then asked
each student the standard six questions from student
hearing guidelines (see fact box).

The interview then opened up to queries from both the
EC advocates and those of the accused for the remainder
of the 10-minute slot. Several students declined to speak
about speciﬁcs of the interview. A handful who spoke

War 2084

  

with the paper revealed the advocates’ lines of question-
ing. Their tactics varied according to responses to the
chair's questions. Advocates of the accused tended to

VtIl'IaBuokPromduebt’tfB&!.1atBodyHea'!u. ll. Sdet'1bno1theJuy
1. Do you know any of the facts of this case?

2. Do you know the accused personally’!

3. is your relationship with the accused, the advocates, any witness.
or the Chair sud) that it may allect your ability to be impartial?

4. Do you have any opinions about the Executive Committee which
would inhton your ability to render a dedslon based solely on the
(acts?

5. Do you have any opinions about the Honor System which would
Inhibit your ability to render a decision based solely on the (acts?

6. Do you believe In the single sanction?

stay quiet if the potential juror indicated any prior
knowledge of the case, whereas in other sessions the
questioning was more even-balanced.

According to the White Book, it is at the chairs dis-
cretion to strike any potential juror with knowledge of
the case or the accused, or those who have serious oppo-

sition to the precepts of the Honor System or the single
sanction system.

The advocates of the EC and the accused are allowed
a total of three preemptory strikes each over the entire
selection process. Two per side are permitted after 15
students interviewed have passed the chair’s question-
ing, and the remaining one strike per side occurs aﬁer
the process reaches I6 prospective jurors.

Students who made the ﬁnal cut received phone calls
at an undisclosed time. As of press time, none ofthe 14
selections agreed to an interview.

While it is unclear when the status of the jury was
ﬁnalized, sources indicate that the process that began
late Tuesday aﬁemoon had concluded before midnight
and without exhausting the entire 75-student pool. It is
also unclear how many students declined to report for
their scheduled interviews.

It is also unknown whether or not the ﬁnal 14 received
their White Books or had selected a foreman before the
hearing was canceled Wednesday.

Thursday, April 1, 2004

 

 

Op-Ed

Page 2

EC: Are you accountable?

By Jeremy Franklin and Jake Trotter

The recent withdrawal of a Washington and Lee stu-
dent convicted by the Executive Committee of an
honor violation, and the circumstances surrounding a
student body hearing that was cancelled at the last
moment, warrant a reappraisal of how the EC and the
Honor System work.

The two weekly campus newspapers have decided
that this should occur immediately, and thus you’re
reading a special combined edition of The Ring-tum
Phi and The Trident.

Many columnists and letter writers to both newspa-
pers have criticized the EC's practices over the past
few weeks, and such a large volume of questioning
should cause the entire W&L community to step back
and ask, simply, “What's going on?"

Regardless of its intent, in the minds of many stu-
dents the EC has painted its own portrait as a secretive
organization that uses its almost unlimited power to
enforce its own twisted interpretation of the Honor
System. There. It‘s been said.

Since W&L is such a small and enclosed campus,
every undergraduate or law student likely knows at
least one EC member personally. We can count eight
whom we’ve gotten to know at least reasonably well.
They're not like this one-on-one; nor do they come
across as such.

But the EC is a representative body, and it's not act-
ing the part.

EC elections are nothing more than popularity con-
tests, with no debate about issues affecting W&L.
Perhaps if actual campaigns were waged, if victors felt

they had actually won something more than a mere
numerical tally, then the character of the EC could
begin to change.

But making elections real tests of campus democra-
cy is not enough.

Conﬁdentiality requirements, silence toward the
press and gag orders prohibit any forum of accounta-
bility for the EC.

On what basis does the student body elect or reelect
its ofﬁcials when no one knows what they stand for?
We hear what they say; yet the facts behind their
actions are not disclosed per the White Book.

Ifthis confuses you, as it should, we'll draw a sim-
ple analogy.

Imagine a Supreme Court that does not disclose its
interpretations of justice or law, or even how individ-
ual justices voted on a particular issue. Then remember
that the court is unelected and has no fonnal legislative
function, so it is only indirectly accountable to the peo-
ple. The EC, however, is directly elected, and through
its budgetary powers it functions as a student senate.
The EC also has the undisputed power of interpreting
the Honor System.

Certain instances of “lying, cheating, and stealing"
are obvious honor violations and should be dealt with
as such.

But in the realm of gray areas, the student body does
not know what constitutes an honor violation because
prior EC rulings are neither acknowledged nor applied.
Thus the deﬁnition of an honor violation ﬂuctuates
based on the composition of the EC in any given year.

The trial of this unfortunate student has raised sever-
al other issues about honor violations and how EC

Executive Editors

Staff

Tyler Archie
Jeremy Franklin
Kaylee Hartung
Andrew Latimer

Geoff Rogow
Mehul Srivastava

Phil Walotsky

Stat? was composed temporarily
for combined issue.

The Ring-tum Phi & The Trident

Katie Howell and Jake Trotter

I:

 By Andrew Latimer

Disclaimer

ideas expressed in special edition combined issue are not
intended as malicious toward any member of the student
body. They are simply a forum to discuss the state of the
Honor System and other current issues on campus. The
goal is to improve life at Washington and Lee.

Modiﬁed from a March 17, 1995 Phi

E-mail from page 1

prosecution works.

The news stories in this special edition should, hope-
fully, shed some light on conﬁdentiality, communica-
tion, timing and the history of EC trials.

Conﬁdentiality may be the most troubling concern.

“All information about a possible Honor Violation
or an Executive Committee Hearing is highly conﬁ-
dential," says the White Book. “The Executive
Committee may take disciplinary steps... against any
student involved in an investigation, any student wit-
ness in a hearing, any advocate, any Executive
Committee member, or the accused for breaking this
conﬁdentiality."

That takes care of everyone directly involved in an
EC investigation. More importantly, it leaves out the
remainder of the student body or W&L faculty and
staff. Conﬁdentiality among 25 people is worthless in
a community of 2,500, especially when the future ofa
fellow is in the balance.

Itseerns thatthis conﬁdenﬁalityoﬂtrrsprotection tbrtheEC,
not the accused (after all, the student neariy watt public with
thefactsofthecasetmtilhewastlrreatenedwithsusperrsionby
the EC fbr the retroactive breach of a conﬁdentiality agree-
ment). Dowft the conﬁdentiality agreement protect the EC
fromthereprisalofmakirtgamistakeoran unpopularjudg-
ment?

On Tuesday night, Trident news editor Tyler Archie
was attempting to gather information on the student's
trial, originally scheduled to begin at 8 am. today. The
purpose of gathering this information was to address
the facts of the case and quell rumors that had been
floating around campus.

However, Archie’s sources, who signed conﬁden-

tiality agreements only after disclosing information,
claimed they were threatened by the EC with suspen-
sion if the story ran and pleaded with The Trident to
kill the story, which the newspaper summarily did.

Later when The Trident asked to simply explain the
details ofthe proceedings, EC president Helen Hughes
declined to provide information.

“As the White Book says, ‘appropriate announce-
ments will be made.’ Thank you," Hughes responded.

Which leads us to address yesterday’s campus-wide
e-mail. The e—mail forbade students from bringing
notepads, pens or any other means of recording the
proceedings to Lee Chapel. Their attempt to limit what
information is disseminated is contrary to the fact that
oﬁicial releases on withdrawn or convicted students
are printed in the Phi and the Trident and are posted on
the EC's Web site.

The conﬁdentiality clause of the White Book
inhibits any student who attends the hearing from dis-
closing details. To draw a parallel to the U.S. justice
system, prohibiting the press from reporting on an
open trial would be a blatant abridgement ofthe press,
a violation of the First Amendment and a serious
infraction of the Sixth Amendment, which guarantees
citizens the right to a fair trial.

We hope the EC will respond to these charges and
concerns. Aﬂer all, as eloquently stated by Supreme
Court Justice Louis Brandeis, “The remedy for bad
speech is more speech."

Only if we are allowed to express our views in the
open marketplace of ideas can Washington and Lee
evolve. If we are censored, silenced or ignored, we
become what we dread most: dishonored.

Full report on today’s student body
honor violation hearing

  

  

McWilliams‘ criticisms stretch
beyond this moming’s letter, as he
said the EC needed to explain the

appeal process bet-
ter. Even as a for-
mer EC member, he
did not know many
of the details with-
out searching the
White Book. He
said the EC must
continually weigh
the charged stu-
dent’s right to
secrecy against the
campus’s desire to
know more.

McWilliams said
there are ways of
telling the universi-
ty without harming
the student, and uni-
versity members
should be told the
reasoning ofa deci-
sion.

“They've been

better (at informing
the student body) over the last few
months, but this was a missed
opportunity," McWilliams said.
Instead, the EC could have used the
trial astheperfectfonim forstudentsto
see how the Honor System works. For
example, the EC's speciﬁc role is to ﬁnd
outthefactsofacaseandthendetermine
the punishment by using the penalty set

by the White Book

McWilliams said the EC wants
everything in a case to be conﬁden-
tial. It can best be done by limiting
information and maintaining secre-
cy. If the system had worked,
McWilliams said no one would have
learned about the trial beforehand.

 

McWrlliams

  

Marino

 

McWilliams’ hope, however, did
not come true. Of the 12 students
contacted for this story, only one

was unaware that a
former student was
going to appeal to
the university
before this mom-
ing. Many of them
even knew speciﬁc
facts of the case,
and said they
received this infor-
mation from several
different sources,
including faculty,
students and staff
members of the
university.

All 12 students
refused to give their
names in fear ofEC
p u n i s h m e n t .
Although it is not
against EC rules to
speak about a trial
that never took
place, or an open letter

to the community, all of these stu-
dents still refused to comment on
the record.

“I don't know where the line is,
and i don't want to guess," said one
anonymous senior.

Some students closer to the case
reﬁrsedtooommentiritbarofdirectmes-
sages from the Executive Committee

about possible ran-liﬁmtiorrs.

report.

“Every message they sent has a
threat. Their job is to make the
school better but they completely
twisted original intent," said Matt
Marino, a friend of the accused.

Tyler Archie contributed to this

Ex-student tells all

Braswell, convicted by Honor System, analyzes procedure

By Phil Walotsky

At the beginning of his freshman year at
Washington and Lee, Anderson Braswell attend-
ed the mandatory Honor System orientation in
Lee Chapel just as every incoming freshman had
for generations. While there, he gained a certain
respect for the Honor System when the famous-
ly intense "Leave Now" speech was delivered.
Leaving the Chapel, Braswell turned to a room-
mate and commented how scary, seemingly, one
could be convicted for anything.

Almost one year later, the irony was over-
whelming. In April of 2002, Braswell was
informed that he was being investigated for an
honor violation. The alleged violation was a case
dealing with plagiarism. However, Braswell's
case was put off until the fall.

"They first notiﬁed me about it in April. I did-
n't even get a chance to meet with my advocates
until September or October," said Braswell. "I
had it hanging over my head all Spring Term,
had it hanging over my head all summer and
came back to school with it still hanging over
my head." Braswell also said that he "didn't
know anything - they said ‘You're being investi-
gated,’ and that's all they say."

But according to Braswell, the problems only
started there. From early on, Braswell felt that
the Executive Committee handled the case with
a low degree of professionalism and a general
disregard for his most basic rights.

"As soon as the professor turned my name in,
they treated me like I was guilty and they were
doing me a favor by listening to me," said
Braswell. "I don't feel like anyone in the process
seriously considered my case." As an example of
inattentive questions, Braswell noted that one
EC member asked him a question about his
handwriting even though the entire document in

question was on a computer.

"They asked questions that were looking for
answers, but most were pointed questions," said
Braswell. "Anytime you'd talk to them, they'd
be attacking you. The screwed—up thing is that
they're supposed to look at this objectively. They
are not supposed to say, 'You're guilty unless you
can prove this otherwise.”

Additionally, Braswell said conﬁdentiality
was a very large problem in his trial. He said he
overheard professors discussing his case in the
hallways ofacademic buildings. Because ofthis,
Braswell said he felt that even if found not
guilty, he would still face problems in the class-
room.

"If you go in front of the EC, every single prc»
fessor will know, and they will look at you with
doubt ﬁom then on. You can stay technically, but
you're ruined," he said. a

Braswell said that after a short period oftime,
the pressure and aggressive questioning became
psychologically damaging.

According to Braswell, the questioning can
and frequently does tum hostile. “They say, ‘It
looks like you did this, didn't you’?‘''

'‘I don't think anyone can fathom the psy-
chological aspects of going to trial," he
said. "l'm a fairly strong person. Things
don't bother me. But l was an absolute
wreck going into trial."

Braswell said, not even the testimony of the
accusing professor convinced the EC of his
innocence. “The biggest detail of my trial was
that the professor said - and this is on record -
'No, I don't think he did it. I think it was just a
mistake.’ They had it recorded on audiotape."

Months of investigations and inquiries didn't just
pay a toll on Braswell personally, but also on his
entire family. He described his decision not to go to
an open student body hearing as "simple."

"My dad got ﬁred from his job," said
Braswell. "My parents were there and they had
to have all these meetings. He got tired because
he had to keep coming down for all this EC
stuff"

Because of his father's unemployment,
Braswell was unable to pay W&L's relatively
high tuition when compared to the costs ofpub-
lic universities.

"When your dad gets ﬁred, you can't afford
$30,000 a year. Had he not got ﬁred l deﬁnitely
would have taken it to an open hearing."

Overall, Braswell was troubled by the EC's
lack of professionalism and hostile questioning
tactics, describing the situation as a "witch
hunt."

"I felt like I was being put in front of the
homecoming court, not the honor council," said
Braswell. "l have to say the president, Gerald
Titus, did the bestjob he could do, but the rest of
them were a joke. He did everything he could
do, but hejust couldn't control them.

"I think they need to read their own book and
understand what it says. The only person that
had a clue was the president," he said. "The idea
in the book is good, but it has to be more profes-
sional."

Despite his unfortunate past circum-
stances, Braswell has managed to recover
well. The junior currently attends James
Madison University, where he plays foot-
ball and is an active member of a fraterni-
ty, all while maintaining a 3.5 GPA. And
through it all, he says he never has grown
bitter toward Washington and Lee.

"I still love W&L, but l feel that W&L is being
held hostage," said Braswell. "The student body
was really supportive of me. But something
needs to be done. Nobody should have to go
through this."

;’.-2
‘P.’

:

A

i

 THE

i

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

T/re riirdeni min of Wnriringion and Lie Urrioerrny time 7897
Buffalo Creek lives on this spring

,Fire grabs attention of communi

,.a

CORBIN BLACKFORD / T/7e Ring-tum P/21'

AFFERMATH. (Above) Trucks were in place this past week to help clear the debris
from the blaze that took student residence located above Il Palazzo restaurant
at 20 North Main Street. (Left) The ﬁre spared little, and according to T/ye Newt-
Gagette, total personal belongings lost amounted to around $10,000.

BY ERIN ]ULUs
MANAGING EDITOR

Washington and Lee juniors Michelle Chastain and
Caroline Francht were left homeless when their North
Main Street apartment went up in ﬂames in the early
morning of April 14. Soon, an outpouring of love and
support came from the Washington and Lee community.

Security ofﬁcer Thomas “Baner” Bane asked Presi-
dent Burish if he could begin a collection for the girls.

Bane visited each of the fraternities last Thurs-
day asking for donations of whatever the brothers
could spare. Pam Burish made the rounds of the so-
rorities asking for donations. M

“I tried to tell them that these are people who sit
across from them in class. . .we’re family at Washington
and Lee and these girls are part of the family,” said Bane.

_ A complete tally is not yet available because some
individuals still plan to donate, said Bane. “To date,
we have $1,173 and some change,” said Burish, “I
thought it was wonderful, the outpour of support.”

0 The Business Office will take the final donation

and divide it equally between the girls.

Bane started this fund-raising to, “showh_oyv much

lovewe have for those g_irl_s,’_’ said Bane.

Accordingiitoillhe News-Giazette, the source of
the fire was accidental and probably was caused by a
faulty set of decorative electric lights. Neither of the
tennants were in the apartment when the malfunction
occured, although they suffered from smoke inhala-
tion. Over 49 firefighters from Lexington, Buena Vista,
and Kerrs Creek doused the ﬂames in about four
hours. No adjacent buildings were damaged, and Il

Palazzo is open for business.

I
THESE HANDS WERE MADE FOR CLIMBING

l F—mail news briefs to ‘
‘ wl edu

l
l
1

STEPHEN MARINOS / The Ring-tum P/yi
CONRAD ANKER. Contact brought the famed American rock-
climber and writer, who has scaled everything from Everest to
peaks in the Antarctic, to the Commons Theater last Thursday.

Commons, ofﬁcials said.

renovations in the past 35 years.

daughter, who died in 1964.

STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRITER

This past week Washington and
Lee students- signed up to participate in
GAP, the Generals’ Awareness Program,
which includes a month—long schedule
of events to promote tolerance.

The program is the result of col-
laboration among individual students
as well as organizations such as Hillel,
Pride, GSA, and the Office of Multi—cul-
tural Affairs.

The stated goal of the program is
to not only recognize diversity on cam-
pus, but also to celebrate the eclectic mix
of cultures here at Washington and Lee.

Included in the list of events are
salsa lessons, a Japanese Tea Ceremony,
and an Origami Peace Crane-Making les-

son. GAP will also sponsor a lecture by next year.

GAP untolls its campa1'g12
Tolerance program aims to broaden student horizons

law student Ahmed Younis on hate,

V violence, and ignorance, as well as a
vigil on May 8 in honor of victims of
hate around the world.

The various events will be spaced
out across the next month to provide
students with the best possible chance
of ﬁtting GAP into their schedules.

Program organizer Marcas Banks
said, “I think it is a great way to help en-
courage the diversity of thought by ex-
posing the student body to other cultures.”

The activities will be competing
with the usual Spring Tenn distractions,
where many students have their after-
noons booked. However, organizers re-
main hopeful that the variety of events
and timeslots will work in their favor.

Yet only time will tell if student
interest will keep the program going for

University Center reverts to its
former name to avoid confusion

The University Center at Washington and
Lee University, located at the corner of Washing-
ton and Lee streets, is reverting to its original
name of Early-Fielding Memorial Building to avoid
confusion with the new John W. Elrod University.

At the outset of Spring Tenn, W&L’s Busi-
ness Office moved from Washington Hall to join
the ofﬁces of the University Registrar, Institu-
tional Research, student Executive Committee and
W&L Counseling in Early-Fielding .

The building, constructed at a cost of
$750,000, was named after the two women in rec-
ognition of their involvement in W&L life. Dedi-
cated in 1969, the structure has seen numerous

The change also is expected to renew inter-
est in the generosity of Annie Fielding Early, of
Roanoke, and her daughter, Annie Early Fairfax,
of Roanoke and Washington, D.C. Mrs. Early left
her estate to Washington and Lee University in
the late 1920s, subject to a life income for her

BY‘ KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

A Washington and Lee tradition that
many students remember fondly has sur-
vived another year.

The Buffalo Creek Music Festival
may be able to continue this year after all,
even though in Febru-
ary the festival did not
appear to have any f11—
ture. Fundraising has
continued since March
to save Buffalo Creek,
after the Intrafraternity
Counsel announced that fratemities could
no longer be responsible for the gathering
because of liability reasons.

Caroline Parker, Inge Hill, and Wright
Sigmund created Buffalo Creek Productions
to raise money from the student population.

The festival is set for May 21 and May
22, the last weekend of school this semes-
ter. Supporters want the festival to con-
tinue in the same fashion as it has in the
past. Buffalo Creek Music Festival will again
be held at Zollman’s Pavilion, and will in-
clude many of the same things from past
years of Buffalo Creek.

Inge Hill remains hopeful about the
ability of Buffalo Creek Productions to raise
the required money. “We feel optimistic

Buffalo Creek is the most

fun party I’ve been to.
MARKALLEN

C I/37'

MONDAY,APRIL 26,2004 ’ ‘

about the festival but still need the contin-

ued help of the students to make this hap-

pen,” Hill states, and also says for the stu-
dent body to “look for fundraising events
in the upcoming wee 

The main source of the money that
has already been raised is the Save Buffalo
Creek website. Here, students can donate
money online quickly and
easily, and money is guar-
anteed to be refunded if
the festival cannot go on
as planned. Though their
goal for the fundraiser is
$15,000 only $2,000 has
been collected.

“Buffalo Creek is the most fun party
I’ve been to,” said Mark Allen, ’O5, “it’s
how 1 picture W&L.”

Anyone who has enjoyed the festi-
val during their years at W&L can con-
sider donating money. Every amount helps,
and donations can be made in the form of
cash, check, or credit card. For more infor-
mation, contact Inge Hill hillm@wlu.edu,
Caroline Parker parkerc @wlu.edu, Wright
Sigmund sigmundd@wlu.edu, or Tim
Litzenburg litzenburgt@ wlu.edu.

Also, visit http://www.geocities.com/
buffalocreekmusicfestival/buffalocreek for
information about the festival and dona-
tions.

Alumni weekend packed
with events, parties, speakers

FILE PHOTO

ONCE A GENERAL, ALWAYS A GENERAL. Be it a
fifty-year reunion or ﬁve, alums old and
young will gather this week for festivities.

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On April 29 through May 2, W&L
alumni will return to their alma mater for
Reunion Weekend 2004. This year’s Re-
union Weekend honors the undergradu-
ate and law classes of ’54, ’59, ’64, ’69,
’74, ’79, ’84, ’89, ’94, and ’99.

Over 1600 participants are expected
to be on campus for Reunion Weekend
activities, including alumni, guests, fac-
ulty, students, and staff.

The weekend features events for
alumni of all ages and interests. Thurs-
day night’s opening assembly features
keynote speaker Paul M. Maslansky.
Maslansky, a 1954 W&L graduate, is
best known for his accomplishments as
a ﬁlm producer.

He has produced numerous ﬁlms
during his lifetime, but achieved his great-
est success with his film franchise Police

FROM PRESS REPORTS

Senior Neth Walker has been awarded a Fulbright scholar-
ship to study at the University of Iceland for a year. The Geology
major will take classes and study the impact of climate change
with Iceland's National Energy Authority.

Walker hopes to investigate the links between scientiﬁc re-
search and its application to industry and policy. He plans to
focus on current environmental issues in hopes of solving natural
resource problems.

He will join a research team in Iceland this summer, where he
will use ice core drilling to construct past climate variations, atmo-
spheric conditions and volcanic activity. Findings from this project
will be used to create an objective basis for decisions on climate
change and energy issues in the Nordic region.

Walker has participated in two geology programs in Ice-
land, and spent part of last summer doing ﬁeld research in Spain
with assistant Geology Professor Chris Connors.

Aterriﬁc track record at W&L contributed to Walker’s strong
candidacy for the Fulbright. »

He is in charge of the Peer Tutoring Program, is assistant
head dorm counselor, a University Scholar and a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa and Order of Omega.

Academy. Maslansky’s speech is entitled
“Thank You Dean 

On Friday, various academic depart-
ments will be holding Open Houses, and
there will also be several Reunion Semi-
nars during the day. “There is a social
side to reunion, but we’ve tried to build
on the academic and non-social things,”

I said Tom Lovell, Associate Director of

Alumni Programs

Friday night there will be a Barbeque
Bash at Zollman’s Pavillion, with enter-
tainment by Heinsohn & Day and Liquid
Pleasure. Various recreation activities are
available toalumni throughout the week-
end. A hike up House Mountain, a Road
and River Relay, wildﬂower hike, and a
rock climbing wall are just some of the
recreational options available.

The ofﬁcial dedication of the ﬁtness
center will take place Saturday morning,
and the Washbum Tennis Courts will be
dedicated Saturday afternoon.

President Burish will address
alumni Saturday morning during the Gen-
erals Assembly. Saturday afternoon fea-
tures a musical program for children by
Roger Day ’85.

The last event of the weekend is
Saturday night’s Alumni Celebration on
the front lawn. Alumni talent, including
Wﬂl Thomas ’92 and the folk—rock band,
Trip, will provide entertainment for the
evening as Reunion Weekend participants
party the night away. ‘

Seniors and third year law students
are invited to participate in Saturday
night’s celebration. “We’d like to get the
W&L students participating as much as
we can,” said Lovell.

Participants can track the full sched-
ule of events at http://alumni.wlu.edu.

Fulbrightawarded to senior eologymajor

SCHOIAR. Walker (‘04) will be studying in Iceland.

     
 

wASWW$mNéG. EEVBUFIN us!-‘ram
I 3“ _T9§lﬁ8: gs UNIVERSITY

‘ ‘\4.Arn

APR 2 7 2004

PAGE 2

Siiiiiiihoironlt

So that we can learn about
where we are, ask our alumni '

Talking with the alums isn’t some-
thing that we all do best here in our hectic
Spring Term. It seems that short of being
cornered at a cocktail party, the average
undergrad politely ignores the white-and-
blue-tagged men and women who will
descend on campus this weekend.

In doing so, we’re passing up a
once- a-year opportunity to get first-hand
accounts of the ascent or decline, de-
pending on how you see it, of student life.
For those of us who are here every day,
these changes are all too often imper-
ceptible. Yet to someone who hasn’t set
foot on the Colonnade in over 20 years,

. any slight deviation from the past can be
jarring. And chances are, those people
will want to talk about it.

As witnesses to the unveiling of
the Commons this year, we’re loathe to
deem it anything short of the most con-
sequential building project the school has
undertaken in decades. Or did other

Till}; REN G-uni PHI

CAIEYANDPIISON

OHNIoNsEorioR
andersonc@wluedu

PINIONS  .

Student honor system backlash gctspersonal

As nearly all non-cave dwell-
ing W&L students are aware, ques-
tions and debates over the school’s
Honor System have intensiﬁed greatly
in recent weeks. A controversial dis-
missal has prompted many to ques-
tion the applicability of the System,
as well as what, in fact, we consider
to be dishonorable at the University
in this day and age.

This is such a hot issue these
days that just before Spring Break, the
Ring-tum Phi and the Trident published
a joint edition (which, for the record, I
had no hand in creating) that was
heavily critical of the Honor System’s
current application, as well as the ac-
tions of our Executive Committee.

This is all well and good. Debate
over our Honor System and our elected
officials keeps this school healthy, and
certainly talking about our Honor Sys-
tem can only make it better. That said,
the goal of this article is to look at the
various accusations and critiques of-
fered, and determine their worth.
CHARGE: “The Honor System pun-
ishes good—natured students of high
character who make small mistakes or
tell little white lies.”

Close, but no cigar. The ques-
tion at stake here is whether or not
simply telling a lie, regardless of scale
or intent, constitutes an Honor Viola-
tion. I don’t think the simple telling of
a falsehood gets you -booted out of
the school, nor do I think that the Ex-
ecutive Committee believes that.

The key issue here is intent. If
someone invites me to something I re-

ally don’t want to go to, and I beg off,

because of a “prior engagement” that
may or may not exist, my intent is to
spare their feelings.
This is not dishon-
orable, in fact, this
is simple etiquette.
Let’s say, on the
other hand, that I, in a ﬁt of laziness, fail
to put together the Opinions pages for
the Phi, and then tell my editor in chief
that a computer glitch ate it all. My in-
tent there is sirnply to cover my mis-
deeds, and that, in fact, is dishonorable.
This is the criterial would use in report-
ing an Honor Violation, and I certainly
think it’s the criteria that the EC uses.
Intent is the crux.

CHARGE: “Elections happen too
quickly and give no time for debate,

MoDERArE’s MUSINGS
CAIEY ANDERSON ‘06

which unfairly affects some candi-
dates. The elections turn out to be
popularity contests.”

This is true. Candidates get just
one week in which to collect 50 signa-
tures, and only after that can they put up
signs. No public evaluation of the candi-
dates ever takes place, and voting typi-
cally goes along social organization

lines. Freshmen, in a state of bewilder-‘

ment, choose with near randomness.
Thus, I support the creation of a
longer candidacy time, as well as orga-
nized electioneering
‘events, like debates.
That would give the
campus a better
chance at evaluating
the people they have before them. But
let’s be honest. Will this keep the elec-
tions from being popularity contests?
No. Most elections just are that way.
Debates? No one would go to them.
We should still have them, but it would
be an exercise in futility nonetheless.
CHARGE: "lheF£mernbersarehypo-
crites who like feeling good about tliem—
selves for kicking kids out of the schoo 
Blatantly false. The majority of
what I object to in this litany of criti-

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004

cism are the horrible things that many
people are saying about the EC mem-
bers. Elected by popularity contests
or not, they are good people who are
talented at what they do, as anyone
who works closely with them knows.

As an Honor Advocate, I can
tell you that they treat the Honor
System with deadly seriousness, and
that they take every opportunity to
reinforce the rights of the accused.
They are certainly not a Star Cham-
ber. If you disagree, look at the num-
ber of not-guilty verdicts they’ve
handed down compared to guilty
verdicts. I can guarantee you that a
lot of those not-guiltys were in cases
that more than likely had a lot of evi-
dence pointing to guilt, but where
the EC found it insufﬁcient. They are
not perfect (the late notiﬁcation of
that aborted open hearing a case in
point), but they all do their
darrinedest to make sure that student
affairs, especially the Honor System,
are run properly.

I encourage anyone with their
own opinions to write in, as always.

Such a critical issue demands student

involvement.

classes see what we take for granted,
Leybum and the non-Greek dining hall,
in the same way?

And for the cynics: Don’t forget that
this communication is a two-way street.
Ninety-nine percent of all information that
alumni receive about the school is ﬁltered
through the Alumni Ofﬁce or some other
ofﬁcial conduit. Student appeals to former
classes regarding the fate of Spring Term
are examples of the exception, not the rule.
But they also sharply demonstrated the ef-
fectiveness and usefulness of such contact.

In case you have a bone to pick with
the administration or harbor fears about losing
thetraditionsthatyou feel inakeW&Lunique,
don’t feel burdened by entertaining alumni.
Insteadlookatthisweekendasanoppoitimity
to inﬂuence directly one of the University’s
most important constituents, the donors.

Or you just might ﬁnd that the more
things'char_ige, tliernore they stay the same."
There’s only joiie‘sVure way to ﬁnd out; speak.-

   

te of the Week,

“I search on Yahoo. I’m looking for
an agent. One actor got to be governor,
so maybe a former governor could go
into acting.”

-Ex California Governor Gray Davis,
appearing on a Yahoo! commercial.

.'i<ziizc«2ii;-it its Lt; lJ~'r.'r.r.<:r.'

G-TUM PHI

Editor in Chief
Managing Editor
Production Director
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

  

THE

Andrew Latimer
Erin Julius
Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Cody Gabbard

' John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Amess

Production Assistants
Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain

Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir.
Distribution Dir.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week‘s edition.
The Ring-rum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

‘Do Not Call’

registry saves
consumers’ time

PHOTO COURTESY OF rnnrorrr
HANGUP. Perhaps millions will avoid her wrath in the future.

Pleasant is not exactly the word I would use to de-
scribe being awakened early one morning by the irritating
sound of the phone ringing. Thinking that it could possibly
be something important, I reluctantly got up from bed to
receive the call.

To my immense displeasure, I heard a familiar voice
asking me if I was interested in applying for a credit card.
Considering the fact that I had already declined the
telemarketer’s offer the ﬁrst time she called, I found it imper-
tinent of her to once again disrupt my schedule. Getting frus-
trated now, I repeated
that I was not interested,
hung up the phone, but
could not fall back
asleep.

It is most unfortunate that situations like this are not at
all unusual in an age where products and services are con-
stantly being shoved in front of our faces. Many of us have
experienced the vexation of dealing with persistent
telemarketers who call at inopportune times or who just will
not take no for an answer. 0

When I talked it over with some peers, I learned that they
too had been unduly pestered by the same telemarketing com-
pany who had called me. As they attempt to reassure us: “you
can always have more than one credit car ” or “we’re not sign-
ing you up for anything, we just want to send you information”
and ask us personal questions (a telemarketer once asked for my
mother’s maiden name), they refuse to hear one simple word: no!

The purpose of this article, however, is not to just com-
plain about the armoyance of receiving these calls but to in-
form its readers of certain actions they may take to limit them.
As you may know, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) oper-
ates a National Do Not Call Registry that shows promise of
reducing the number of telemarketing calls consumers receive.

Registering is free and straightforward. You can call
the toll-free number, 1-888-382-1222, or register online at
www.donotcal1.gov. Telemarketers must search the registry
for new numbers every three months, and if they disregard
the registry, they could be fined up to $11,000 for each call.

A poll conducted by Hanis Interactive in January found that
more than half of all adults say they have signed up and 92 percent
of them say they receive fewer calls, proving the measure to be
successful thus far. The registry does not, however, protect against
all solicitation calls. Exemptions include charities, religious organi-
zations, survey researchers, and calls regarding political campaigns.

Most of us would be grateful for any reduction in the
number of unwanted calls. Think about it. Do you know more
people who beneﬁt from telemarketing calls, or more who

* ﬁnd it personally invasive and irritating?

Must we be subject to calls in our own homes promot-
ing another product or service we most likely don’t want or
need? There are plenty of other advertising avenues that
companies can take to increase their proﬁts without disre-
specting the right to privacy in the home.

A FRESH PERSPECTIVE
BIBEKA SHRESTHA ‘O7

 

Presidential rivals’ websites:

showdown on

Go to www. eor ebush.com. This is
the Bush-Cheney reelection campaign’s of-
ﬁcial reelection website. The “Top Story” with
a large picture serving as the link dominates
the center-left of the page. Just to the right
of that, on the same level of the top story, is
a large link “John Kerry: The Raw Deal”
which brings you to the

 

environment

the “smokestack scrubbers.” Power compa— .

nies responded in the predicable manner:
most cost efficient. They extended the inter
val before the next overhaul as long as pos
sible through piecemeal repairs, while the
executives griped throughout the ‘80s and
‘90s that exactly what constituted “overhaul”
was poorly defined and

“Kerry Media Center” ’re- OUTIN LEFT FIELD “burdensome.” CEO’s
plete with attack adsintliree , complained that the EPA
different formats, a GABE CHAPMAN  might foist the scubbers on
“Kerrytracker” which them if they so much as

shows where Senator Kerry has been in the
past five days, and “Debunker Busters”
which evidently clear the air after John Kerry
misinforrns us.

Let me just congratulate the webmaster

‘ on‘ his alliteration, and uncanny ability to make

anything air-eminder of war. Statements that
are supposed to establish facts suddenly be-
come “debunker busters,” gigantic bombs of
truth that penetrate the thick walls of obfus-
cation and misnomer erected by John Kerry.

Now you’ll have to forgive me, but af-
ter just about four years I ﬁgured the reason
why we’d reelect someone is because what
they have done good things. In effect; I
should vote for this guy again because of
his merit, and I can judge his merit without
respect to his opponent.

It’s not hard to find people on this carn-
pus who think George Bush is a great, excel-
lent president, and his website begs the ques-
tion: why is it spending so much time talking
about John Kerry, if there are so many great
things to say about George Bush?

It would be nice as well if some of the
things about John Kerry were less mislead-
ing. For instance, the “Kerry Gas Tax Calcu-

. lator” refers to a proposal made by Senator

Kerry during George I’s presidency to ad-
dress the growing deﬁcit concerns of that
time. But my particular favorite is the
DeBunker Buster: ‘

KERRY’S CLAIM: “Instead of pro-
tecting public health, George Bush rolled
back and undermined the Clean Air Act.”

THE TRUTH: President Bush did not
roll back the Clean Air Act. President Bush
proposed reforming a burdensome, outdated
regulation called New Source Review to en-
able businesses to upgrade their facilities
with the newest, most efﬁcient pollution con-
trol technologies.

This is a bunch of nonsense. It sounds
more like a public statement made by the likes
of the Politburo than anything else. The
Clean Air Act was passed well over thirty
years ago. It was agreed that one of the prin-
ciple ways to do this would be to install pol-
lution control equipment on power plants.
Democrats recognized that forcing compa-
nies to retroﬁt power plants all at once would
be prohibitively expensive, and so they cre-
ated New Source Review.

NSR said that when the time would
come for a power plant to undergo a major
overhaul (intervals of easily more than a de-
cade), the company would have to install

changed a lightbulb. Of course, if Bush has
his way, they’ll never have to. Ever.

To somehow shore up his record on
enforcement, his website points out that
150,000 pounds of PCBs are being cleaned
up in the Hudson River. Well, I appreciate
the shout-out Bush, because I grew up on
that most beautiful of rivers in the great state
of New York.

Moreover, I know for a fact that I can
thank the Attorney General of my great state,
Eliot Spitzer, for the successful suit against

- GE which has led to that cleanup effort. Eliot

Spitzer is a Democrat. I can further add that
you had nothing to do with the successful
prosecution of that case, and nor did your
mockery of the Environmental Protection
Agency. I would then ask that you stop ly-
ing on your website for taking credit for
something you had nothing to do with.

_ The day that I happened to visit
Bush’s website was Earth Day, and the “Top
Story,” if you could discern it against the
background of Kerry attacks, was a speech
Bush was giving in Maine to announce his
victories on the environmental protection
front. His website boasts of bold new initia-
tives in environmental protection.

And so I pose a challenge to anyone
willing to take it: if you care to, present a
compelling case that George Bush has any
interest in the environment whatsoever, an
interest that is demonstrated by his efforts
over the past three years to increase, pro-
mote, or at the very least sustain some level
of environmental protection. The vast ma-
jority of information that I have read on the
matter makes it clear that Bush has done
none of these things, and that the environ-
ment is very near, or at, the bottom of his
long list of priorities.

Now go to John Kerry’s website,
www.johnke;ry.com. You will ﬁnd that the
website is overwhelmingly dominated by in-
formation about John Kerry. There are only
two references to George Bush, and you have
to scroll down to the very bottom of the
website before they’re even visible.

If you just glance at the two websites
side-by-side, the differences are striking.
Bush’s relies heavily on the graphics, sensa-
tional headlines, huge fonts, and negative
references. John Kerry’s is visually reserved,
more wordy, and almost exclusively centered
on conveying information about the candi-
date you presumably went there to learn about.
I leave it to you to decide which you prefer.

Write for the Phi Opinions section!

emzri! andersonc@wlu.edu or phi@wlu.edu

    

PAGE 3

Many of us often wonder what the purpose of life is. We ask
ourselves on a frequent basis what classes should we take or what line of
work we should do, often making decisions that will make our lives and
the lives of those we love better, usually in the form of economic well-
being. It is part of the Western culture to make our decisions based on
how it beneﬁts us. We major in an academic area hoping that
will somehow enable us to accumulate some sort of eco-

PINIONS

 A life lived in the service of others is a life Well-lived

nu; Riuc;-not Pill

CAIEYANDEISON

OPINIONS EDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

fortunate enough to have a choice and was not required to ﬁght, but he saw
himself drawn by what Sports Illustrated termed as a higher calling: his

responsibility to humanity.
In our society it is easy to forget that life is about who you are
as a person in relation to other people. It isn’t about wealth, good
grades, or prestigious honors, though our stan-

TF 5 D I dards seem to indicate that these are the things
nomic and social success—I doubt that many of us are OF THOUGHT to which we should aspire.
enduring the rigors of W&L academia simply for the heck of TRAN KM ‘05 Wrthallthe conveniences available atthepalm

it without expecting some great personal reward in return.
But recently, a tragic inspiration reminded me that life’s
success is not determined by the size of one’s bank account or the
prestige of one’s many honors. Last Thursday, a young man by the name
of Pat Tillman was ldlled in combat in Afghanistan. Aside from the cour-
age that is possessed by every soldier in war, T1llman’s actions that led
him to enlist demonstrate his courage as a human being. He was aformer
NFL player who turned down a $3 million contract in order to serve his
country and help out his fellow men by ﬁghting in Afghanistan.
Unlike many of the soldiers who go to Afghanistan, Tillman was

Letters to the Editor

of our hands, it would be reasonably easy for a hu-

man being to live his entire adult life without ever
forming any relationship with anyone because if he or she is economically
successful, he can care for himself. The conveniences and amenities of
American society quicldymakeus forgeteach otherbecause itis soeasyto
get caught up in ourselves and in our lives.

Pat Tillman had a successful life with a great career and nice
bank account, and he could have easily enjoyed his life without
ever concerning himself about the troubles of the world, but he did
not. And we also must not forget each other in the midst of remem-

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004

bering ourselves. It is good to strive forsuccess, but economic
success without humanitarian success is not success.

If you die at the age of 95 with three PhD’s, a nice Jaguar,
and a 5-bedroom house in the suburb along with a beach house in
Malibu but you have not touched the life of at least one human
being on this earth, you will be a failure. If you screw up and get a
bad grade or lose a job, as much as it frustrates you and as bad as
you may feel, other people will not remember you by it. But if you
screw up and offend someone deeply, though you may never feel
bad, other people will remember you by it.

There’s an age-old philosophy that encourages people to
do one good deed a day. Not all of us can go to war and lay down
our lives for our fellow men and women, but all of us can make a
difference to someone, whether it is one person or 1,000 people.
To do this, we must be more aware of those around us use intu-
ition and to determine whom we can positively affect. It is as
simple as saying “hi” to someone who never receives any saluta-
tions or just simply smiling at someone who has little joy. These
are things that will make you memorable.

Parent asks for respect for President

Dear Editor,

I’m not certain if you publish “letters to
the editor,” but if so, here goes. I picked up
an issue of your paper (3/15) on a visit to
W&L with my 17 year-old son. In that edi-
tion, ther was an article by Tran Kim (‘05) on
President Bush and his immigration policy.
What I personally found offensive was not
the tone nor the message of the article, but
rather the complete lack of manners on Ms.
Kim’s part. Whatever one thinks of the man,
he is the President of the United States and
should be written about as such, rather than
“Bush this” and “Bush that.” Respect isn’t
time consuming.

Sincerely,

Peter Maich

Alumnus applauds Courtney Perry

DearEditor,
This is a fan letter for your “The Last

Word” column of March 22, dealing with

dating “a—holery” and the jerks who prac-
tise it.

I was up from Atlanta just afterwards
for an alumni seminar. As an old Ring-tum
Phi reporter and beyond I perused the pa-
per. Your piece to promote peace between
the sexes stood out to me. ' I

The dynamics of common courtesy is a
subject well-taken in any era. The “a—holery"
you decry so well is a phenomena starting in
the time of cavemen wooing women with club
in hand. I would like to believe even back
then that gentlemen didn’t need that macho
security symbol to attain the exchange of the
ultimate courtesies with their sweethearts.
Gentlemen are gentle men, the obvious con-
traction of the root words.

 

I imagine some did use their clubs.
They were the jerks of their age, much as
the guys currently on campus who engage
their mouths to gang up on a brother and
his date before they engage their minds.

Fast—forward from the caves to my era
at W&L, graduating‘ in 1956, when coats
and ties and a really serious speaking tra-
dition were the norm. But still the same
old, same old gender issues from time im-
memorial-— the jealous verbal bullies brow-
beat the decent brothers who take pleasure
in the right way to court a lady, with con-
versation, humor, mutual interests, and
sharing good moments”. All before the earth
moves.

My only departure (I think it was only
once) from the dating norm was a different
form of “a—holery” but, nevertheless, “a-
holery.”

After a long Spring Saturday after-
noon of my sophomore year playing a lot
of midfield in a losing cause, I got very
drunk on my beautiful sweetheart.

She told me later that the night,'the
only gentlemanly thing I did was to roll off
her lap just before I threw up, all ofver the
front well of a senior brother’s convertible,
borrowed after much begging and plead-
ing. For my transgression I spent six weeks

cleaning the car. With‘ a toothbrush. She.

married someone else. «

Back up to your era and it’s still the
same old, same old. And at that age, there
is, unfortunately, a perverse status and ce-
lebrity among louts, loudmouths, and
boots in the competition to be the biggest
lout, louidmouth, and boor.

Fortunately, as you put so simply and
so well, decent people will find decent
people. Not fawning or obsequious people,
neither rude nor bullying people, the ma-

jority in the middle-- caring, sharing, de-

cent people. Onward, brave Courtney, and
Ring-tum Phi editors.
Sincerely,
Keith Rogers, ‘56

Taking issue with Safe Place secrecy

Dear Editor,

Colleges used to keep their friends informed.
A University was a place for exchange of news and
ideas. But those days have passed. Now the new,
Liberal ideology conﬂicts with the old ways, and
the truth is kept secret.

Consider Washington and Lee University. In
1999 the W&L Administration approved a non-dis-
crimination clause for homosexuality. Soon after-
wards a program called Safe Place, to promote ac-
ceptance of homosexuality, was brought to cam-
pus. Washington Hall quickly granted its approval
by appointing a faculty advisor, allowing the
University’s facilities for organization, and perrnit—

ting W&L’s name on Safe Place’s logo, now seen

on many faculty and administrators’ ofﬁce doors.
The Dean of Students also attended meetings of
the Gay-Straight Alliance, the organization that
brought Safe Place to W&L, and the Visiting Lec-
turers Fund paid for homosexual speakers on cam-
pus.

Yet when a request was made to inform W&L
alumni about Safe Place, a strange silence occurred.
Nothing appeared in the Alumni Magazine nor the
monthly email Bulletins, the normal channels of in-
fomiation to alumni. Despite repeated requests, this
silence endures, and today the vast majority of
alumni know nothing about Safe Place. Why? ...

Because the new, Liberal agenda might of-
fend some W&L alumni. The Administration fears
their reaction, and perhaps their reduced support
for the recent capital fundraising drive.

What is a University if it does not allow free
exchange of news and opinion? And how can an
institution that professes an Honor Code continue

to censor campus news? Recent W&L Presidents
have successfully kept Safe Place out of alumni pub-
lications, but in 2002 hope returned when President
Tom Burish was appointed. Here was a Psycholo-
gist who said he valued “free and open discussion”,
and who seemed to know the dangers of hiding the
truth. President Burish was soon informed of the
lack of news about Safe Place, and he gave his word
that by the end of academic year 2003 alumni would
be informed.

But once again, the news did not go out. In-
stead, a page was built into W&L’s website, ac-
cessed after reaching the homepage, clicking Cam-

pus Life, and then Safe Place. In other words, it was
buried. Only those alumni who use the intemet and,

somehow hear about Safe Place, and then search,
can learn about it. Thus the current Administration
continues to hide Safe Place from alumni. It remains
secret, except to students and recent graduates.

The Liberal agenda has no right or wrong; it
professes moral relativism. Today, despite W&L’s
Presbyterian founders, regardless of George
Washington’s and Robert E. Lee’s devout faith, we
are told that W&L was not established on religious
principles, and it will not be thus administered.

The Administration is now on a rudderless
course which has led it into a muddy bog. Yet a
dirty face is not as bad as a lost soul, and Washing-
ton Hall can still wash away our dishonor by de-
scribing Safe Place to all the W&L community.

Secrecy should not be part of W&L; it is dis-
honest. Students wrote in the recent ‘combined edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi and Trident “Only if we
are aﬂowed to express our views in the open mar-
ketplace of ideas can Washington and Lee evolve.
If we are censored, silenced or ignored, we become
what we dread most: dishonored.”The W&L Ad-
ministration should take a course in Honesty from
the students. They should tell the alumni about
Safe Place.

Sincerely,
David Keeling '73

shepherdcipps.wlu.edu

Free Summer Storage of all winter
clothes and bedding

. ‘U
o 0 0
Write for the P121! 3
TH*E _ _ , _ , N You want to go
A , . The Ring-tum Phi is always looking for fresh talent. We re Q to medical school,
APA  - — - - - ill youhaveyourBA
L Q g A -1* 0 R - looking for students from all classes and all majors to write in all 5 buuhe on|y' "
< ---------------------------- ~-> sections, Editorial ositions are also available for those who want a .5 '
R|CHMOND'S FREE LOCATOR SERVICE . P . 5 ‘°',°,If.I3.°,§f§.’i§'.§§°
can gr information and yourrre; map fun, challenging extracumcular ,, ham,“
' ' ° ' ' ' ' ° ° ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' " (If .
V Ph f P ts.
804-329-6666 , , , , ‘” ’‘'°‘‘’’ ‘’°
800-3 68-7669 For infoniiation, write phi@wlu.edu or call X4060. '0 w h
E-maII:vaIocator@gsc-apt.com ‘ e ave
ll’ a program
3 for you.
n.
Getreadyfor University Cleaners 9_.
- 7 North Jefferson Street g_ -5 g
N abors Service Day Lexington’ VA 24450 Come Celebrate 3
463-3622 M(¥her,st:Ia"' at 0% Columbia University’s
‘ emp e. 3;
May 1 5: 2004- University Cleaners offers full service storage for 20 Wwwashingm Sue“ 3 is
all your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is inl-Iistotic Dswntown Ammcarsoidestand best
' ' Lexington, irginia _
rrebeo $3.2?32§.iI.°'°fr.Z°Z‘i’J°’.”'Zl.l“;l2ll.T.If‘l;,  
. . I . . 9 ‘ 9  PP Y _ (5‘“’) 46245288 graduates have an 85%
good citizen for 0 day. Kickoff IS of your home address In July_ Storage ,8 free. temptme4@lycos.com placemematc in American
I 1’ projects Stan OT 12‘ Just Affiwdl medical schools. Call:
It couldn’t be easier, bring in your clothing this
Signups will take place throughout spring and pick it up_in_ the fall, clean, pressed,_ SP‘;,‘;1;‘a::: (800) 8904127
 a2rr:::r;:.rr:;.E:;’.i2:*e:;i:::::.*:;izaz." 
for addictional information. Bea d1;f;*;‘1ja“;i;f8fi;:r::: 

 

Register your mom for our
Mother’s Day drawing!
Prizes include a facial,
chocolates, $25 giﬁ certiﬁcate,
beaded shawl, pendant and
earrings.

C O LU M B IA
School of General Studies

 

V JOHNHYIAND

    

ASSIFANFSPORTS EDHOR
hylandjb@wluodu

 Rl't\i(}-’lUM‘ Put

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004

Women’s lax
seizes ODAC title

BY SARAH BLooM
STAFF WRITER

“Basically, the game was
an excellent opportunity for us
to come together as a team be-
fore the weekend,” said fresh-

man Kelly Evans of
Wednesday’s game against
Bridgewater.

The Generals defeated
Bridgewater 20-1, claiming 10
consecutive goals.

“The game was a great
opportunity for many different
people to score and to work on
the weaknesses in their game.
Many attackers played defense
and vice versa,” said Evans.

Despite this mixed up
ﬁeld of players, the Generals ac-
complished what they needed
to accomplish in order to pro-
ceed to the semi-finals compe-
tition on Saturday.

The highlight of the game
canre when senior Kelly Taﬂe left
the ﬁeld. Taffe rewrote the record
books for the Generals Wednes-
day, as she claimed the highest
position for all-time leader in
points earned in a career.

“This was very exciting
of course,” said Taffe. “but I
think the real glory was in win-
ning the game.”

Other goal earners in-
cluded senior Lee Wheeler and
Evans with 3 goals and l assist.
Freshman Avery Lovej oy lead the
team with 2 goals and 4 assists.

Saturday came and the
Generals again had to prepare to
defend their number one seed.
This time the team was stacked
up against 4th-seeded Randolph-
Macon. This team posed the
greatest threat as the Generals lost
Randolph-Macon in season play.

Again, the Generals left
the field victorious with a score
of 14-3. Karina Schiess said of
the success in the past two
games: “We soared above

Bridgewater’s level of play,
which kept us ﬂying high for
Saturday’s win.

Indeed, the Generals did
ﬂy high, ending the half with a
9-0 lead. Taffe again rewrote the
record books as the General’s
all-time point leader. Taffe
scored ﬁve goals and one as-
sist to put her at 231 points.

Also contributing to the
win were sophomore Kate Lester
with two goals and one assist and
senior Lee Wheeler with two
goals. Freshman Maggie Megear
and sophomore Amanda Strickler
each scored one goal and one
assist for the Generals.

Senior Joanna Perini also
did her share at the net to pro-
tect the Generals on the
scoreboard with 7 saves.

With this win, the Gener-
als advanced to the ODAC
championship game against
second seeded Virginia
Wesleyan on Sunday. Parents
and fans filled the stands to
support the girls in this ﬁnal
game of the season.

Just prior to the game,
Taffe said, “I think the perfor-
mance of the team this year has
been incredible‘. Everyone has
worked very hard and sacriﬁced
a lot to be where we are. Hope-
fully today will prove it.”

The Generals did not disap-
point. The girls walked away Vic-
toriouswith aﬁnal score of 11-9.

Goal earners included
Strickler with 4 goals, freshman
Mallory Lobisser with 3 goals,
and Wheeler with 1 goal. Lester
and junior Maggie Speasmaker
each scored one assist.

Taffe again broke her own
record with her 3 goals.

Emotions of the game could
be summed up at the concluding
buzzer. The stands erupted in
cheers for the Generals and the
women exchanged excited hugs
and shouts of victory.

PORTS

W& host DAC championship

GOING THE DISTANCE. Nathan Johnson runs in the
5000 meter run. Johnson was crowned the mens’

Co-Athlete of the meet at \X/ilson Field.

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

On Wednesday the Generals travelled to Guilford for its armual

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. -—- The Washington and
Lee men’s and women’s track teams both
ﬁnished fourth out of ﬁve teams as the
Generals hosted the 2004 ODAC Champi-
onships on Saturday.

Lynchburg won both the men’s
(185.5 points) and women’s (149) compe-
tition. Trailing the Hornets on the men’s
side were Bridgewater (178), Roanoke
(64), W&L (48.5) and Eastern Mennonite
(47). On the women’s side, Eastern Men-
nonite finished second (1 19), followed by

Roanoke (109), W&L (93) and
Bridgewater (53).
W&L junior Nathan Johnson (Lex-

ington, Va./Rockbridge County) was
crowned the men’s Co-Athlete of the Meet
along with Steward White of Bridgewater,
while Bridgewater’s Shane Stevens was
named the men’s Coach of the Year.
Ashley Palmer of Lynchburg was named
the women’s Athlete of the Meet, while
Lynchburg’s Jack Toms and Eastern
Mennonite’s Paul Johnson split for Coach
of the Year honors.

The Generals’ performance was
highlighted by seven All-ODAC perform-
ers, two individual titles and two school
records. Johnson earned his Co-Athlete
of the Meet title and All-ODAC honors
after winning both the 1500 meter run

PAGE 4

track meet

(4:O2.97) and the 5000 meterrun (l5:59t88).

For the W&L women’s squad, jun-
ior Meredith Walker (Travelers Rest, S .C./
Christ Church Episcopal) was a three-tirne
All-ODAC performer, taking second in the
100 meter dash (13.21) and anchoring both
the second-place 4x100 Relay and the
4x400 Relay. Freshman Sara Behmerwohld
(San Juan Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills),
juniorAnn Tompins (McLean, VaJPotomac
School) and junior Kim Gunst (Richmond,
VaJDouglas Freeman) joined Walker as All-
ODAC runners in the 4x100, clocking a
school-record time of 51.68. Behmerwohld,
Gunst and freshman Huntley Rodes
(Nashville, Tenn./Harpeth Hall) also
earned All-ODAC laurels in the 4x400 Re-
lay with atime of 4: 14.82.

Behmerwold earned All-ODAC hon-
ors in the‘ 400 meter hurdles after taking
second with a school-record time of 68.40,
while junior Emily Barker (Clifton, Va./
Mount Vernon) rounded out the W&L
women’s All-ODAC athletes with a second-
place throw of 32.38 meters in the javelin.

Junior Steve Chambers (Christiana, Pal
Octorara Area) took third place in the 5000
meternmwith atime of 16:08.95, while junior
ChrisWall<er(Franklin,Mass/PaulVI)p1aced
thirdinthe shot with a 13.38 meter hurl.

Senior Brian Krupczak (Cohasset,

I Mass./Cohasset) rounded out the men’s

highest placewinners with third place ﬁn-
ish in the 100 meter dash (1 1.31).

Men’s lacrosse notches one-and-a-half wins in a week

Generals got scores from Senior Mike Attacknamara, Junior Jack
' Murray and one from Junior defenseman Eric Koch off a great indi-

vidual effort. However, the Tigers posted 2 goals of their own. Their

beatdown. It seemed like everyone on the team scored — except
junior midﬁelder Adam Chesbrough. “You know, I think I’m giving
up on offense; I mean, Chow-Chow scored,” was all the stunned
Chesbrough could muster in reply.

Good thing he’s really good at face-offs: he and fellow junior
midﬁelder Mike Barracco won 24 out of the 27 faceoffs in the game. Such
dominance in possession allowed the Generals to hang 20 goals on
Guilford. Senior attackman Matt Fink scored 5 goals, Senior midﬁelder
Dustin Martin scored 3, and then a ton of other people scored goals.

Last night the Generals hosted Harnpton—Sydney for the regular sea-
son ODAC crown. Scoring came in spurts for the Generals as the first
quarter got underway, goals from Martin, Freshman James  Ryan, and ,
Junior Gavin Molinelli put the Generals ahead 3 before the Tigers could
answer with a goal of their own. The Generals took a 4-2 lead into halftime.

Hampden-Sydney came out ﬁring after the half and the teams
traded big hits for much of the third. Scoring evened out a bit as the

hopes were dashed, however, by a fourth quarter dominated by W&L
possession. One ﬁnal goal from the Body sealed the deal, as the
Tigers, despite adding 2 goals to their tally, were unable to hold on to
the ball: they threw it at me, an innocent onlooker, twice.

Senior Ansel Sanders posted 5 stops on 11 shots, including
an astounding point-blank save that would have put the Tigers
within one goal late in the third. Sophomore Perrin Monroe played
inspired lacrosse yesterday, with his freshly-trimmed ﬂowing locks
and defined glute muscles giving him the “power” to win every
groundball in the midﬁeld.

Junior Bill Fox had two forced turnovers on Tiger clears that
allowed the Generals to maintain possession in third and fourth quar-
ters. Senior Matt Fink had two assists, while Molinelli had one goal
and two assists, despite being guarded by a very good-looking
defenseman, Courtie Peters. All-in-all, no one could beat the Gener-
als (and their fans) yesterday, especially not the Tigers. 1

63$ EYEWEAR IS VISION /3%

é

EYEWEAR IS STYLE ’
THE BEST OF BOTH IS AVAILABLE

at

The New Opticians

Boutique
[3 203 N. Main Street

F . Lexin ton
Hair:/i/0” 540-4639-7440 cs‘‘'°i’\%
85 www.newopticians.com

P Gr-_ad School
Gr veawa

Celebrate SpringTirne p
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day"
Brides ~ Graduation
witha

   

Enter Kaplan's Grad School Giveaway
for a chance to win a free 42" Sony” Plasma
TV, Sony’ DVD Dream’ System, or MP3 player.

p Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris
  at . 1-800-KAP-TEST

(540) 2640063 kaptest.com/giveaway
Gift Certificates, Packages

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway to enter today!

Test Prep and Admissions

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of
Columbia and Canada (excluding the Province oi‘ Quebec) and students residing ON A STUDENT VISA in these eiigble
jurisdictions who are elgiteen (18) years of age or older as of March 15, 2004. LIMIT: One entry per person. All
entries must be received or postmarked by June 15. 2004. For additional eiig'bil'rty restricti r and instructions to
enter, see the complete Official Rules, available at Kaplan centers and on-campus sites in the US. and Canada.
oniine at kaptest.com/giveaway. or by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to ‘Grad School" Giveaway, 1440
Broadway, 8' Floor. New York. NY 10018. Thirteen (13) winners will be selected from all eligible entries received In a
random drawing to be held on or about August 9, 2004. Odds of winning depend on total number of eligible entries
received. Participation in this promotion constitutes entrant's full and unconditional agreement to and acceptance of
the complete Official Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to V
receive notice of future Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kapian Test Prep and
Admissions, Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway. 8" Floor, New York, NY 10018.

Speaking Engagements
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

<I><I><I><I>

m

Seals

Creating solutions. changing lives.

0

Lightfoot at

summer: CAMP JOBS

Looking for the best summer of your life?

Camp Easter Seals in Virginia has job.
openings for camp counselors and program

leaders (aquatics, horseback riding, music,

nature, sports and more).
children and adults with disabilities or one
of our beautiful camping facilities. Staff
members come from across the US and
around the world. Room, board and salary
provided. For information contact Lauren
(8504)
IIightfoo’r@va.easter-seals.org

Work with

633-9855 or

line nay super sale!

WﬂtII9sllaV,A|ii‘i28ﬂI8:llla.llL-8:IIl|I.ﬂI.
'M(lHlliI‘l|iIl(MlHﬂﬂW/ill

IIIIKS
TAPES
APPAREL
IWELIIY
IEITVMIIIE

iiliasiirrutnrr anti lee ilriversitv BIll|(8tlIl'Ii

458-8634
.IIlI|ElI'llll}IlIIlIII8

P
H
I

mi-lDUO"'dc/2

Q9

 

JOHNHYIAND
A$lTANISPOKIS EDITOR

hylandjb@wluodu

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004
Tennis hosts

tournament

JANE BEALL
STAFF WRITER
The Washington and Lee University’s

4 women’s tennis program played host to the ODAC

tournament this weekend. The tournament, which
was ﬂighted and scored on total points, lasted three
days. Last year, the Generals swept all nine divi-
sions and are expected to repeat this season.

For the first round of tournament competi-
tion every General received a bye, automatically
advancing to the quarterfinals. All six singles com-
petitors and all three doubles teams for the Gener-
als were ranked first going into this round, and
combined to post nine wins. Freshman Kristen
McClung, playing in the second slot, and Senior
Liz Law, blanked their respective opponents from
Sweet Briar and Emory and Henry.

The Generals handled the semifinal round just
as easily. The Generals swept the singles competi-
tions 6-0 and advanced all of their players to the
ﬁnal round, played on Sunday. Freshman Katie
Kingsbury gave up a sole game in her match against
Virginia Wesleyan College’s Bethany Kent, and
former athlete of the week Ginny Wortham shut out
her opponent 6-0, 6-0.

The ﬁnals round of singles and the serni-ﬁ-
nals and ﬁnals rounds of doubles play were held
Sunday, and were scheduled to ﬁnish after this ar-
ticle went to print. If Washington and Lee per-
forms up to expectations, they’l1r take their four-

Eli Manning’s pre-draft antics soil famil

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

It’s about time a Manning came along and
did something to upset fans and media, and more
importantly, me. To this point the biggest contro-
versy created by a Manning was when Peyton
hinted at possibly feeling a little bit cheated by not
winning the Heisman.

Just when we thought this family was per-
fect, the Chargers announce that they were told
not to take Eli Manning because he would rather
sit out the year than sign with them. The question
is, should this taint the good Manning family name,
or will the media and fans give them one freebie?

Call me old fashioned, but I will never think
of the Manning family the same. Eli isn’t the Latoya
of Manning’s who is bringing shame to his family.

Tilli RLi€(}-TUivI Pl-ll

PORTS

THE WINNERS. The womens’ tennis team continued
its winning ways during the ODAC tournament.

teenth ﬁrst-place ODAC tournament ﬁnish. Since
1991, the Generals have won the tournament every
year except in 2002, when they fell to Hollins. The
Generals, who are currently ranked second in the
South, expect to host at least the first round of the
Regional tournament, scheduled for May first. J un-
ior Lindsay Hagerman and freshman Ginny
Wortham both have high chances of advancing to
the individuals national tournament.

Rather, Archie Manning, Peyton and Eli’s fa-
ther, visited San Diego and was the one who deliv-
ered the devastating news to the Chargers. For the
whole family to back this decision and support his
threat that he would sit out the season rather than
sign with the Chargers (give me a break, only bluff-
ing) seems strange, especially with Archie being an
old-timer who would seem to support tradition. What
makes this claim even scarier is the leverage that he
holds and the trend this might set for future seasons.

Eli Maiming -is the consensus pick for top
quarterback in this year’s draft and as a result, sit-
ting out a year will .not end his career. He is tal-
ented enough to do what Drew Henson did and
start a bidding war once he achieves free agent
status. If he is successful in this, how many other
top ten picks would hold out to be taken by a qual-
ity team? After J.D._ Drew refused to sign with the

PAGE 5,_,

Baseball en teritrg slide with
two losses to Hampden-Sydney

BY JOHN HYLAND
AssiTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team
concluded their regular season
Saturday by losing both games
of a doubleheader to Hampden-
Sydney. W&L has now lost six
of their last eight games but hope
to get back on track to their early
season form when the ODAC
tournament starts on Thursday.

The Generals defeated
Roanoke on the road Wednesday
night. W&L sent righthander
Bryan Mulhem to the mound.
The senior battled with the
Roanoke starter, freshman stud
Jonathan Willis, through ﬁve in-
nings as neither team could mus-
ter a run. The Generals broke the
scoreless tie in the sixth when
sophomore second baseman
Scott Gosselink doubled home
senior shortstop Austin Allain.

Junior catcher Zach
Bausch followed with a single to
rightﬁeld that scored Allain. The
Maroons got a run back in the
seventh to cut the lead to 2-1.

Mulhern was relieved byvthe
team ace, senior lefty Peter Dean
in the eighth to try to preserve
the save. Neverthless, Mulhem
had pitched brilliantly, allowing
only one run over seven innings
and striking out four. Dean was
able to record a fairly routine six
outs to earn his second save of
the season as the Generals earned
a 3-1 victory. Mulhem evened his
season record at 2-2.

In game one in Farmville,
Hampden—Sydney jumped out to
an early 2-0 lead in the first in-
ning off of Dean but he was able
to battle back and allow the Gen-
erals to tie the score at 2 with
two manufactured runs on the
fifth. The game remained in a
deadlock until the Tigers’
Tommy Burk hit the game win-
ning single in the bottom of the
eleventh off of Mulhem, who
had replaced Dean in the tenth.

The nightcap provided a
lot more offense than the ﬁrst
game but just as difﬁcult a loss
for the Generals. W&L jumped

out to a 5-0 lead in the second, i

highlighted by Allain’s two run

single. The Tigers came back to j I I
score eight runs in the next four

innings to take an 8-7 lead. The
Generals responded as Mulhem

belted his second solo homer of - '

the day in the seventh and took
the lead in the eighth on
Gosselink’s two run single.

Once again, the Generals’ ‘

lead did not last for long as the
Tigers scored twice in the eighth
and the winning uneamed run in

the ninth to emerge 1 1- 10. Fresh- _ _

man Clayton Edwards suffered
his second loss of the season for
W&L. In addition to Mulhem’s

exploits at the plate, Allain and i 1 '

freshman designated hitter each
had three hits and Gosselink ﬁn-
ished 2 for 5 with three RBIs. The
Generals return to action in the
first round of the ODAC touma-
ment on Thursday in Lynchburg.
Their opponent is yet to be de-
terrnined. The team ﬁnished the
regular season with a record of
17-14, 11-7 ODAC.

y name, may incite baclcash

Phillies and chose to sit out a year, the next few
years saw several more players doing the same
thing. This defeats the purpose of the draft. Crappy
teams get better because they get early picks, and
the good teams must trade up for their talent.

The draft pick is supposed to make the team
good, which has been best modeled by the Dallas
Cowboys of the early ‘90s. This is where his deci-
sion makes even less sense! Does Eli Manning
feel that he can’t turn the Chargers around? Most
rookie quarterbacks would kill for a running back
like LaDanian Tonilinson in their first year, and the
combination of the two of them could be a great
historical duo to rival. . .oh I dunno, Peyton Man-
ning and Edgerrin James! '

Let’s remember the backlash J .D. Drew re-
ceived as a result of his refusal to sign with the

Phillies. Upon his return to Philadelphia batteries

where thrown at him. . .batteries! Frankly, I sup-
port this sort of activity, the booing
anyways...okay, not the violence, but I would

wholeheartedly support a barrage of boos from ' i K

the Charger fans should he ever play on the road
in San Diego. I do realize that John Elway did this

same thing and still became one of the most popu- _ —
lar athletes in the U.S., but I feel like the only way ' i '

for Eli to follow his footsteps is to have a similar,
hall of fame career with no off—ﬁeld problems. He
is certainly capable of this, but I still don’t think
that makes it right.

There’s no point to having the first overall
pick if you can’t select whomever you wish. I have
lost a tremendous amount of respect for Archie

Manning and no longer consider myself a fan of Eli , V ,

because, as freshman Alex Orr put it so eloquently,
‘,‘He’s (expeletive deleted) with the system!”

T

Tuesday, April 27

Wednesday, April 28

Thursday, April 29

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDIJLE

Saturday, May 1

Friday, April 30 J

t Sunday, May! 2

0 Open

0 M Lax hosts ODAC
Tournament--TBA

0 Baseball at ODAC
Tournament--TBA

0 Baseball at ODAC
Tournament-- TBA
0 M Tennis at NCAA
tournament-- TBA

TBA

I 0 Track at Mason Dixon-- 0 W Tennis at NCAA

0 M Tennis at ODAC
Tournament--TBA
0W Tennis at NCAA

l Tournament--TBA

Tournament--TBA

0 M Lacrosse hosts
ODAC Tournament--
TBA L

|NSPiﬂfEDBY H3‘ RD.

Seats five, has  suhic
feel of cargo space. and
is available with ‘IE0 hp
and a B-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’! fully explain 
 Ti};

   twat ..    “*t‘.=.ii.liﬁ$I3Q-l1il.é:.i.:‘
Bill;  AGTLBL %k5i|l.EH’F‘Fi'i'.é? mt-mil

PAGE 6 V

Spring Term las

As vague as the term “real world” can be, it’s pretty
safe to say that whatever it is, it’s not W&L. Nothing
emphasizes this fact more than Spring Term. Spring Term is
an experience that no other college students in the coun-
try get to have. Sure, there are some colleges out there, like
Bates College in Maine. that have a sirrrilar six week “short
term" at the end of the year.

But I assure you that in Lewiston, Maine there is
no Goshen, there is no front lawn in front of Lee Chapel
on which to play Frisbee, and there is no Buffalo Creek
festival when students light huge bon-
fires while listening to various sorts of
music all night long.

From lawn parties, to outdoor sports,
to only having class two days a week,
Spring Term maximizes everything great about W&L, while
minimizing the not so great. Being a graduating senior, I
know all too well that the workplace will not consist of out-
door keg parties or trips to horse races.

For those of us who will graduate and continue to live
off our parents for the rest of our lives, never having to earn
a single dollar or do one hour of real work, well, Spring Term
may never have to end. But for the rest of us who will some-
day have to earn our own living and be independent, Spring
Term, unfortunately, is a ﬂeeting part of college life that,
once gone, can never be revisited.

Vlfrth this in mind, we mustn’t take Spring Term for
granted, and take care to enjoy it as much as possible while
we have it. My favorite author once wrote “think only of the
past as its remembrance gives you pleasure,” and this
present Spring will soon be the past, so go out and make the
best of it, while giving yourself something to look back on
with a smile in your later years.

Having said this much there are a few things every
W&L student can do to make his or her spring term experi-
ence even better:

Lighten up. One of the worst things about Spring
Term is the cattiness. One could spend so much time dwell-
ing on that guy’s short shorts, or that girl’s figure in a
bathing suit, or that idiot with his collar up, or that girl’s
outfit, etc. etc. Frankly, I think most of the trends here
make people look ridiculous anyway (ﬂoppy hair, Lily
dresses—are you five?—eight—inch pearls that people
wear to the gym, designer bags that people carry while

 
 

  nrnrarii“
COURTNEY PERRY ‘O4

 

 

’il‘l%*l_l:i Ella-(.'.§-~”l'“2ij;\-ti PH.l

THE AST WORD

t respite before realworld

wearing athletic shorts, etc.). Stop taking yourself so seri-
ously! Does it really matter? So much time and energy is
wasted on such trivial matters when, instead, you could
be doing something a lot more positive and actually en-
joying yourself. For example . . .

Go out and meet or talk to people I realize my apparent
hypocrisy in saying this since half of you who do know me
are probably thanking your lucky stars that you don’t have
to talk to me on a regular basis (as opposed to most people
who are sitting there asking ‘who is this chick anyway, is she
' really a nude model, and how do we hire her
for a party?’ ). But think about it. The seniors
that are graduating may never even see some
of the underclassmen, or even some other
members of the senior class again. As for
the underclassmen, the seniors that are graduating may be
able to help you network once you get out into the real world,
so it wouldn’t hurt for you to get to know them for that rea-
son, on top of the sheer enjoyment of their company.

Do some pleasure reading. Let’s face it. We’re all aca-
demic types, otherwise we wouldn’t be here. Fall and Winter
Terms just don’t allow for the same kind of leisure time that
Spring Term does, so why not take advantage of that free time
do something pleasurable that can further your education as
well (that is why We’re here, right)? I recommend anything Jane
Austen. Her artistic use of language is amazing, while her sto-
ries are light and pleasing and always have a happy ending-
just the thing for a leisurely spring afternoon.

These are just some of the activities that can help to
make everyone’s Spring Term just a little bit better and help
everyone have a little more fun. And of course, always re-
member to be safe. With the nicer weather and added free
time of course comes added drinking.

Be considerate and respectful to those who choose
to remain sober, especially if they’re kind enough to drive
your sorry drunken ass around Lexington, or worse yet,
take care of your sorry drunken ass when you’re going to
the infrrmary or hospital. Such excessive behavior is not
enjoyable for anyone in said situation and of course will not
make for any pleasant memories for the future (if any memo-
ries at all). T 0 end on a lighter note, you’ll have to excuse me
for cutting this article a little short there’s a Powder
Puff game I have to get to. Oh, and one last thing . . . don’t
be an a—hole.

 

MONDAY, APRIL 23:'20()?l

l

Fun PHOTO

FUN IN THE SUN. These shirtless wonders had their fun during a past Spring Term. Are you?

e best locations on

 

      

atlord counts down th

1
l

FILE PHOTO

NUMBER EIGHT. The Chi Psi Library made Tirn’s list of W&L’s top stops. Read on to learn where else to go.

As the real estate cliche
goes, “Location is everything.”
Well, it just so happens that W&L,
a fantastic location in itself, has
plenty of lovely, unique, or just
plain quirky locations that make
our school even more of a delight.

Here’s my Top Eight Loca-

.tions on campus. Some are obvi-

ous. Some are a little more interest-
ing. And of course, some are slightly
se1f—serving. Please enjoy the list
and try to experience all these spots
in the ﬁve weeks we’ve got left.

8) Chi Psi’s Library ——As far as ‘

fraternity houses go, the Lodge is
the big-daddy of ‘em all. All poten-
tial frat boys who see the Lodge
for the first time dream of living in
one of those massive rooms in an
even more humongous house.
This house boasts an impressive
lawn, spacious basement, and
vaulting main hall, but by far, its
most delightful feature is its library.
Featuring two imposing portraits
of our namesake generals, this
room seems to come straight from

a congressional building or some
magniﬁcent manor. This library is
proof that there is some class to

our frattiriess at W&L.
7)HoweHallBioMiseum—Being
from a good West Virginian home,

my living room naturally has its
share of dead animals; we have
three deer, a boar, a fox, and a rac-
coon, to be exact. That’s why the
Howe Hall fourth ﬂoor “Dead Ani-
mal Room” feels like home to me. It
features all sorts of taxiderme! crea-
tures from throughout the world,

organized in a cozy way that makes
studying so easy. Take it from me,
as one who studies as little,as pos-
sible, that this is the perfect spot

I for late-night. reading or.end-of-

terrn cramming. As long as you
don’t mind the dead coyote star-
ing at you. A '

6) The University Center Men’s
Bathroom —— This pick might seem
a little odd, but to those who have
been there, it makes perfect sense.
This bathroom (the one just to the
right of where the GHQ used to be)
is just massive. It’s huge. It’s bigger
than most fraternity house dining
rooms, and is reminiscent of those
impressive bathrooms you encoun-
ter at pro sports stadiums. And
what’s great is that, despite the
double-digit urinals and numerous
stalls, this bathroom is used maybe
once a month. Whenever I find
myself in the University Center, I
always visit to pay my respects.

5) Cap’n Dick Smith Field —— To
those of you who haven’t seen a
W&L baseball home game, you’ve
missed out. Dick Smith ﬁeld is per-
fect, hidden peacefully in the woods
in the remote lands of the W&L uni-
verse. It looks even better compared
with its neighbor, the Pavilion, which

wins the prize as biggest and worst
eyesore on campus.

4) Newcomb 7 — By far, the great-
est classroom on campus. With

 tons of windows and loads of sun.- . ;
light, this location helps the studi—' 

ous and the distracted alike, espe-
cially in the '

nally, thehhall hg only seven
people, which just feels right.
2) The Liberty Hall Ruins — At
W&L, we are inundated by tradi-
tion from. many sources, and the
Ruins mightbe the nicest histori-
cal spot. On a fantastic spring day,
the Ruins are a

days of the old ABSOLUT FRATLQRD great place to study,
Co—op, when ‘ . relax, or catchanaf—
bored students TIM SMITH  temoon nap. While

could gaze out ‘

all windows and follow the general
bustle of the W&L day. And at
night, it makes an excellent study
room — just pull open the windows
and wait for friends to come dis-
tract you. You won’t be disap-

pointed.
3) Gilliam Dungeon —— The quirki—
est hall on campus, both by its lo-

cation and the people usually liv-
ing in it. First off, it has no dorm
counselor, leading to various un-
regulated illegalities. Then, there’s
the old dorm counselor room given
to a student. As far as I know, it’s
the only dorm room on campus
where a guy can get his own indi-
vidual bathroom. Of course, there’s
the pleasure of watching feet pass
by your window on the path to
Gaines on slow boring nights. Fi-

it’s a bit of a walk

in from the heart of campus, a trip to

the Ruins on a great day cannot be
outrnatched.
1)TheLambdaChiMoonmof—Yes,
it’s a debatable No. 1 choice. But
the moonroof holds a special place
in my heart. For each morning of
my sophomore year, it was undeni-
ably refreshing to wake up, stumble
out of bed and go out onto the
moonroof to start the day. The view
is awesome. It’s probably the high-
est point someone can stand (le-
gally) in Lexington. And right now,
with a hammock, some lawn furni-
ture, and a baby pool, the
moonroof has been the place I
spend my Spring Term aftemoons.
A great place to relax, or to just take
in the scenery, the moonroof is
probably my favorite location.

Q If the EC doesn’t keep records why do they

Q With all this EC bashing going on, I almost

Q Why is the McDonald’s in town so slow?

 

 
   

phi@wlu.edu

Q Everybody congratulate Dave “Chow Chow”
Olchowski for scoring a goal in the recent lacrosse
game as a defenseman.

Q Am I the only one with a crush on the Orbit
girl? -

Q Does it bother anyone else that our bath-
rooms are stocked with “recycled toilet paper”?

Q Note to Self: During ﬁnals week, you can go
to every single printer on campus and still not ﬁnd
one that works.

Q For all of you Hillary Duff fans: If you can’t
do the math, get out of the equation.

Q. How fast would lighting go if it didn't have
to zig—zag?

Q You’re only young once, but you can be im-
mature forever.

Q To the male aspiring to be Jessica Simpson:
it’s called Leybum Library, not American Idol. FYI,
the walls are thin.

have a secretary?

Q Is it not bad enough that the characterless
Commons is forced upon us with ridiculous acts
such as mandating fraternities to sponsor events
in the building? Can they not give us free Cokes on
examweek?

Q What’s up with the two C—school dudes that
got in a ﬁstﬁght over the US job growth rate in the
past month? Was it 308,000 or 125,000? My sources
tell me who cares, Beatus dominates Everett!

Q Here at W&L, calling someone a “functional
alcoholic” is considered to be among the highest
of compliments.

Q I was upset at the lack of a follow up article
by either back page columnist regarding the IM
basketball season. It seems the monkey was no
monkey at all. .

Q Cadavers, please remember to take your chalk
with you after you are done decorating the carn-
pus. Someone could easily pick it up and ﬁnger-
print it. -

Q Whoever said that The Phi should be inves-
tigated for sleep deprivation was way off. The Phi
puts me right to sleep every time.

forgot which frats I was supposed to hate. Al-
most.

Q Whoever left a dent in a 540 BMW in the
freshmen parking lot: either leave a note and pay
for it, or call me so you can get stomped.

Q Is saying a polyurethane coat is leather and
worth $250 considered an HV?

Q Callie leaned too far back in her chair in the
library and took a huge spill...she thinks no one
saw, but I saw the whole thing and it was hilarious!

Lessons learned from lacking suncreen: You
can wear a $500 Lilly sundress and still be a redneck
at the end of the day. -

Q Three cheers for the weather at Foxﬁeld.

Q I saw horses at Foxﬁeld! Four years and my
dream ﬁnally came true.

Q Can the Men’s Lacrosse team be stopped?
Nine wins in a row!

Q Today in 1964, Zanzibar joined Tanganyika
to form Tanzania. Isn’t that exciting?

_ Q Buy war bonds.

Q I always greet Alumni Weekend with mixed
feelings. Sure, it’s great to meet the Class of 1954,
but who wants to see that annoying alumnus who
graduated last year that has been coming back ev-
ery other weekend, again?

Q Celebrate Virginia’s history: Today in ‘1607,
the colonists who would later found Jamestown
first made landfall at Cape Henry. :-

Q At least those people who are running the
Generals’ Awareness Program had sense enough
to change the name from “Anti—Ignorance Cam-
paign.”

Q More: The people who wrote the “Aware-
ness” pamphlettes that are littering campus should
have done some spell-checking before printing up
2,000 copies.

Q We couldn’t afford Spring Term, but we can
afford a ﬂat TV in the Co—op? Who do they think is
going to sit down to watch TV there, especially if
it’s setto the History Channel?

Q Go, Pat, go! Beat Arlen!

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and tales
of Spring Term debauchery to phi @wlu.edu.

 

 
 

SMALL-TALK. Current students mingle with
alums duringa briefsunny  this weekend

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
I=RODUcTION DIRECTOR

Throughout the weekend, alumni
reminisced about what makes this school
the W&L we all know and love.

Torn Wall, Paul Maslansky, George
Young, Ray Bee, Steve Sloan, and Gor-
don Taylor, all members of the class of
’54, were reliving their days at W&L at
the lunch on the front lawn Friday.
Maslansky immediately noticed the loss
of the speaking tradition. He said that the

‘ . campus was still friendly, but we do not

have what they used to have in the tradi-
tion. He believes that the greatest addi-
tion to W&L besides the Elrod Commons,
is the Lenfest Center. It provides far more
cultural options to the student body than
the campus did 50 years ago.

These six members of the class of
’54 went on to talk about life at W&L 50
years ago. The president of the university
was not visible, but was highly respected
by every student. Young’s daughter at-
tended Rhodes College and came to W&L
for a ﬁeld hockey game. He was very im-
pressed with the athletic ﬁelds on carn-
pus. All ﬁve spoke of the new buildings
on campus. “You can see where the money
has gone,” said Maslansky.

Young, Sloan, and Maslansky were
members of a six—piece band that played
all four years at W&L, Sweet Briar, and
Hollins. All three said their best memo-
ries were of playing in this band. They
agreed to play at UVA one weekend. It
was the craziest party they had ever
played. One of the band members had his
head cracked open with a bottle by one
of the people in the audience. Never again
did they agree to play at UVA.

Sloan was an English major and
wrote movie reviews for the Phi. He went
to see movies at both of Lexington’s
movie theatres, the State and the Arm-
pit. He started the Washington and Lee
Literary Society. One of the society’s
many members was Tom Wolfe.

Tin Itniient noiie of Was/nngton nnd Ln Uninmigy since 7897

VMI relations were no better then.
During the 1950s, W&L guys had a tra-
dition called “late dating.” The VMI
guys had curfews around 10 p.m. After
the VMI guys went back to their bar-
racks, their girlfriends would come to
W&L and late-date the guys here. On
Sunday mornings, the Betas would
throw empty beer cans at the VMI guys
marching through town.

John Lackey, George Spaulding,
and Bruce Chosney ‘64, said that girls
and race are the two biggest differences
on campus today. They were at W&L in
the midst of the Civil Rights movement.
Their junior year, the frontrunner for EC
president ran on a segregationist plat-
form and was defeated in an upset. Dur-
ing their four years on campus, the foot-
ball team never lost a home game and
was even undefeated one season.

“The more they improve the school,
the more things stay the same,” said Price
Blackford ’73. BlackfordcarnetoW&L dur-
ing the Vietnam War. The campus culture
changed somewhat during this period. His
freshman year, students were still wearing a
coat and tie to class, but by the time he
graduated, that traditionhadendedln 1973,
about 16 girls attended W&L through an
exchange program. Blackford said that the
campus seems far more beautiful now. He
encouraged students to take advantage of
all W&L offers because he wishes now that
he could go back and do more things.

PHI

CV77
VOLUME CVIII, No. 2
MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

==:Alumn1 weekend in focus, reunion rememberances

STEVEN MARINOS / T/re Ring-tum P121"

IN THE BANK. President Burish receives the Class of l954’s record-setting donation.

Henry Hamilton and Ed Peterson,
both members of the class of ’79, believe
that what makes W&L special is still here.
During their time, downtown Lexington was
renovated, the law school and the library
were built, and Elizabeth Taylor came to
campus. Peterson said one of his best memo-
ries of W&L is living in a country house for
a year where they had to kill mice with
hockey sticks. Both were members of fra-
ternities and said that they didn’t have the

legal problems we have today in our Greek
system such as a legal drinking age of 21.
Lexington was living in the past
this weekend. The alumni had a great
time talking about their college days.
They were pleased to see that the same
traits that made W&L great 50 years ago
— the honor system, the close-knit com-
munity, the fraternities, and the out-
standing faculty — were still driving the
mission of Washington and Lee today.

Hammer falls on Beta with year suspension

BY ERIN JULIUS
MANAGING EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Big Four
fraternities lost one of their own this
past week, when the Student Affairs
Committee ratiﬁed the Inter—FraterrIity
Councils’s recommendation that Beta
Theta Pi be kicked "off campus for a
year.

“Beta will not be on campus next
year,” said IFC Advisor Matt Jacobs.

“I’m disappointed in the trial pro-
cess,” said former Beta President Seth
Martin, “I don’t think it was fair.”

“SAC found reasonable evi-
dence to support the numerous viola-
tions of the University’s policy on haz-
ing, and wholeheartedly adopts IFC’s
recommendations as affirmed by the
University Board of Appeals,” said
Jacobs.

The IFC recommended that the
chapter be suspended to the upcoming
academic year and that all chapter ac-
tivity for the current year be suspended,
Jacobs said. The brothers will be al-

N ew adininzrinafonr

/ninen’ inﬁll opening;

BY ERIN JULIUS
MANAGING EDITOR

Three new faces will guide student life
next year. Buddy Atkins, Acting Director of
the Commons is moving to a position in the
development ofﬁce, leaving his position open.
Teresa Glassinan, Director of Student Activi-
ties and Greek Life and Matt Jacobs, IFC Advi-
sor are also leaving their respective positions.

The search is on to find Atkins’ replace-
ment. Thetsearch committee is made up of six
members from the student body, faculty and
staff. Thomas Worthy, ‘O5 and Katie
Henderson,’05, James Dick, Professor Julie
Woodzicka and Dean David Leonard comprised
the search committee.

Atkins’ replacement, “will be responsible
for the Commons as well as the entire Campus
Activities area which is responsible for Stu-
dent Activities, Greek Life, Outing Cub and
Campus recreation and leadership programs,”
said Dean Dawn Watkins.

Jacobs’ position is being slightly restruc-
tured because, “Matt actually does more than
just advise the IFC,” said Watkins. The title is
being changed to Assistant Director of Stu-
dent Activities and Greek Life.

., "i “I think for the student activities job, or-

’; ganization and an understanding of university
and Greek national policies and their relation-
ship to the students are going to be the most
important things,” said past Panhel President
Mary Butler Stone.

 

    
    

~ TIMER / Te Ring—t14 Pn;

lowed to live in the house for the rest of
this year, but it will be closed next year.

Martin said he did not think new
member education was worse this year
than it was in the past.

“One thing that I question--the
fact that they never investigated any-
thing,” said Martin, “not once talked
to any of the freshmen, the new mem-
bers. They only spoke to me, one of ‘
about 40 people.”

said.

port that,” said Martin.

Martin said.

Statements made by Beta broth-
ers were also misinterpreted, said Mar-
tin, “we were rarely, if ever, asked ques-
tions by the judicial committees,” he

Beta does have the opportunity
to appeal, in writing, to President Burish
regarding the SAC’s decision.

' According to the Student hand-
book, the appeal would not constitute
I a rehearing of the case, but the Presi-
dent has the option of either rejecting
the appeal or sending the case back to
the SAC for reconsideration. The SAC
handed down this decision last Sun-
day, so Beta has 10 days to appeal.
Wednesday, May 5 will be the last day
an appeal could be made.

“My understanding is that the I
alumni want to appeal, and if they
choose to do so, the chapter will sup-

Dean Watkins, the chair of the
SAC, recused herselffrom this decision.

After the suspension period is
over, “we f11lly intend to come back,”

A MOVING LANDMARK

history while making way for a high—tech art and music facility next to the Lenfest Center.

Judy Shepard, alumni deliver talks

JEB BROOKS / T/ye ng-tum b
SPEAKING OUT. Shepard addressed a packed house April
27 with the story of her son.

L BY ANNE FINLEY
. AssT. OPINIONS EDITOR

“I’m not a professional speaker,” Judy
Shepard said last Tuesday evening in the Com-

.mons Theater. “I’m a mom. I’m a mom with a story,

and opinions; my story, my opinions.”

Shepard’s son, 21-year old Matthew, an
openly-gay student at the University of Wyo-
ming, was lured from a bar in Laramie, Wyoming,
on October 7, 1998, by two men claiming to be
gay- '

He was then driven into a secluded loca-
tion, brutally beaten, tortured and left for dead.
When he was found eighteen hours later, he was
suffering from hypothermia. He would die five
days later.

The anti-gay hate crime created national in-
terest, eventually leading to the production of

both a TV movie and» HBO’s “The Laramie
Project.”

Shepard began her battle by starting the Mat-
thew Shepard Foundation and now gives lectures
across the country.

The Gay-Straight Alliance and SAB began
fundraising for Shepard’s visit, deeming it a worthy
goal. A

The GSA first sent a proposal to Contact, ask-
ing for help covering the costs. According to GSA
Co-chair Kelly Jo Larsen,‘ denial of their request
“just solidified our resolve
to bring Shepard to cam-
pus.” Larsen found that
“the campus responded in
an amazing fashion. So
many groups were saying.
‘Our budget is strapped but
we want to help. All I can
give is $100, will that
help?”’

In her introduction of
the program, Larsen’s reading of the numer-
ous co-sponsors: GSA, SAB, Offices of the
President and Provost, the Office of
Multicultural Affairs, Departments of History,
Sociology and Psychology, LIFE, KEWL,
GayLaw, and the National Lawyers Guild.

Shepard made an impassioned plea
against hate that she called a “learned behav-
ior” that “is alive and well in our country to-
day.” In a direct address to the audience she
asked “Did they hear those words from you?
‘That’s so gay?’ Why is that a bad thing?” She
asked people to remember that “these words
represent real people, who bleed and breathe."

 

SHEPARD

about gay rights

Shepard stated that “many people think
the gay community is very well represented by
The Village People”.

The theme of Shepard’s speech was clear:
“I don’t want this to happen anymore”.

The GSA again collaborated with KEWL
this week to bring two gay alumni, Dennis Riva,
‘97 and Jeanne Dillon, ‘96, to campus forithe
“Out on the Colonnade” program to discuss
alternative lifestyles on campus.

Other alumni in "attendance also shared
their stories.

A “clear message” was sent to two male
students caught having sex in 1980 who sub-
sequently left during Orientation Week, said
Emory Edwards, ‘84. I

In 1989, one fraternity brother brought a
student up on an HV for ‘‘lying about being
straight,” said Margaret Rhodes, ‘89. The stu-
dent remained on campus.

Doctor Julie Woodzicka, an Assistant
Professor of Psychology whose primary re-
search has to do with prejudice and stereo-
typing, was “impressed with Mrs. Shepard’s
using the tragic murder of her son as a vehicle
to promote equality and diversity.

For straight students, this means em-
bracing the gay community, being part of the
movement, and letting others know that you
won’t tolerate acts of prejudice or discrimina-
tion. If you aren’t part of the solution, you
really are part of the problem.”

Jessica Lloyd, president of KEWL, re-
marked that “Ms. Shepard has a very simple
but very powerful message to share, that it is
better to love than to hate.”

  

saiitase. usvmu uuamw
\VIlWa?=tiN£i"fON 3. LEE umvensrrv
l;P~)rmr>,mmm In/A 

HA? 0 #2001?

PAGE 2

‘1l*ti'iRlN(3~'l‘UAli)l-ll’
STAFF EDITORIAL
Get up, get into it

We here at The Ring—tum Phi like
to think that we exist for a reason. Al-
though we offer an open forum for opin- .
ions and features designed to entertain,
look at our first page: it’s news. Our pri-
mary job is to inform.

Keeping students connected to
their world on campus is the aim of ev-
ery student publication, and so it’s only
natural that any of us would rankle at
any hint of apathy toward school and
student affairs.

We’re not trying to deify or demean
the achievements those who put a prior-
ity on being involved. The fact of the
matter is that we all pay our individual
student activities fee, yet it seems that
precious few of us truly get what we pay
for. It’s our contention that, in general,
this is by no fault of The University and
its offerings, but rather the blame lies with
our own internal motivation.

Sure, “internal motivation” is an
out-of-place topic choice during what
most students cherish as a blessedly
leisurely Spring Term. The problem oc-
curs when this lax attitude spills over
into the rest of the year, which we be-
lieve it does.

We were also moved by the sheer
emotion that many alumni had for Wash-
ington and Lee this weekend, which was
evident in their fond rememberances, as
well as concerns about the decline of the
speaking tradition.

The solution is to get involved when
it matters, and one such time is with this
week’s E.C. Forum. Take the time to

speak up and dictate the collective deci-
sions which affect us all. It’s one of those
very rare moments when the students
can stand up and say “we matter.”

Fellow students: we implore you
to take action on whatever behalf you
choose, so long as you do it.,We can
and will prove that we can take even
more ownership of this, our beloved
university and home.

deed, both past and present,

((

   

te of the Week

))

“The best-selling bobblehead doll is Anna-
Nicole Smith, followed by Jesus.”

—Associated Press Report on the
Bobblehead Doll Industry

 

Editor in Chief
Managing Editor
Production Director
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Andrew Latimer
Erin Julius
Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson

‘ Anne Finley
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Arness

Production Assistants
Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain

Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Din
Distribution Dir.

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Vrrginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
S p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper

I observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Te/op/tom’: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu
Subscription rate $40

THE}: RI_NG-Ttl'I‘vI PEI

   

CAIEYANDEESON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

PINIONS

MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

Honor System: More questions, fewer answers

I, Caley Anderson, pledge on my
honor that I have neither given nor received
any unauthorized or unacknowledged aid on
the forthcoming article. I received so many
comments on my last Honor System examina-
tion (and one letter to the editor from a phi-
losophy professor) that I have been per-
suaded to write another one. The entire cam-
pus seems to be abuzz with talk of the Honor
System. I would venture that there hasn’t
been a debate over the System of this magni-
tude since President Lee implemented the be-
ginnings of it during his mid-19”‘ Century ten-
ure. It is a tribute to the members of our
University’s community in-

that our unique adherence to
a principle endures in the 21*‘
Century.

But alas, ours is not an unquestioned
dedication,vnor ought it to be. Today, I’m go-
ing to look at a few more of the many ques-
tions that are being asked on our campus
these days, and do my best to give what I
think are the correct answers.

A grain of salt before we begin— what
you are about to read is simply my opinion,
not a statement of fact. In fact, even I’m not
so sure about it. I’ve spent a lot of time think-
ing about this issue, and I’m still not sure
about very much. Thus, not only is the fol-
lowing an opinion, it’s a doubtful opinion. So
keep that in mind as you read.

STATEMENT- “Honor might actually be
measured by degree, and the single sanction
may in fact be unjust. At least we ought to

. remove mandatory belief in the single sanc-

tion as a criteria for being a student or an
Open Hearing juror.”

That depends on your definition of
“honor.” Is honor simply being a good guy/
gal? Someone good and kind who friends can
rely on, who professors want to have in their
classes, and who contribute generally to the
W&L community; that, in my humble opin-
ion, is not honor. That is being a good stu-
dent, and though it will get you far in any
college, it will get you nowhere at Washing-
ton and Lee if it is not accompanied by honor.

That said, what IS honor, and can it be
measured by degree or not? In Professor
Mahon’s well-worded Letter to the Editor on
the next page, he points out that I should have

The Ring-tum Phi Quick Poll

MODERATE’s MUSINGS
CAIEY ANDERSON ‘O6

said last week that a dishonorable lie is one
that the teller intends to benefit by, rather than
one he does not. And I agree with this. Let’s
look at the obvious elephant in the room on
this issue, the student who was most recently
dismissed from the University because of the
Honor System. From all I’ve heard from his
friends and from he himself in his article in
the Trident, he seems like a great guy. But if
the lie that he told was indeed self-interested,
then the act was dishonorable, and in decid-
ing to eject him, the Executive Committee
acted correctly.

But that raises the question of whether
or not there ought to be a “le-
niency” system of sorts. The
student was an exemplary mem-
ber of the community apart
from the issue at hand, and
from the EC’s report, his offense had less of
an impact than a typical Honor Violation.
Ought we to suspend him instead, or offer
some other punishment?

My answer is no, for multiple reasons.
First, I believe that honor, at least as I define
it, is something that is not easily developed,
nor is it easily discarded. While I believe it’s
possible that people may be honorable or dis-
honorable at different stages of their lives for
different reasons, I also believe that, at any
given time, a person is one or the other. Have

I told a self-interested lie in my life? Yes, of

course. No one on campus could possibly
claim otherwise without being laughed at.
But, and this is a big but, have I told a self-
interested lie while on campus? No. And it
is my firm belief that most of the campus has
not done so either.

As if that were not enough of an argu-
ment, the White Book also challenges the EC
to prove that an Honor Violation constitutes
a serious breach of the W&L community’s
trust. Thus, even if you tell a self-interested
lie, as some people still on—campus have surely
done while here, it must have breached
someone’s trust. Therefore, it must have
caused some sort of problem or done some
sort of damage. If we are now applying this
rather stringent standard, the appearance that
the Honor System punishes “little white lies”
goes away. And I can agree that, by this stan-
dard, Honor is not measured by degree, and
we ought to apply the Single Sanction, and

Agree or disagree: The Honor System is in need
of modification at the fundamental level?

‘Strongly Disagree: 14%

    
   

Disagree:
22%

Don’t know, an’t
decide: 7%

Strongly Agree: 18%

 

Agree: 30%

57 students polled, 26 male, 31 female. The poll has +/— 5% margin of error with 95% level of conﬁdence‘

Bush, Republican Victory a near-certainty “"9

require students to agree to its appliance.
STATEMENT- “The EC ought to give us
more warning before an open hearing”

This is true. While Student Body Hear— 1 L f :’

ings, as we’ve learned, happen very rarely,
when one actually occurs, we should have a
date the same day that the accused and the

EC set a date. If the accused mounts a suc-'

cessful appeal or delay attempt, or some other
emergency happens to move the day, then a
new day should be set weeks in advance to
give students fair warning. Open Hearings

are so critically important that students‘ "

should be able to clear their calendars for that
day. Class and other events should be can-
celed for the entire day. In fact, although it’s

a time-honored place, the venue should be I 

moved away from Lee Chapel if there isn’t
enough room, perhaps to the Warner Center,

with bailiffs posted to ensure that non—W&L_ :

community members do not get in.
The fact that the students did not hear
of the near-open hearing this year until two

days before the set date is not acceptable, _
and I will be extremely disappointed if this‘

policy isn’t changed. Hopefully the new EC
gets the message loud and clear, and certainly

it will by the time the upcoming Honor Sys- . ‘ '

tem hearing is held.

STATEMENT- “Dishonorable conduct
should not be limited to simple dishonesty such
as lying, cheating, and stealing, or other things
like that, and should apply to behavior consis-

tent with President Lee’s demand that each stu- ;

dent be a gentleman (or lady, since 1985).”
This is a controversial statement, but one
that I agree with. Honor, to me, is a combina-
tion of honesty, integrity, and decency to other
people. Call me an independent prude if you

like, but I have been to multiple parties during ,

my time here where I’ve seen things that I’ r in

would define as dishonorable. The way some
guys behave towards girls here completely dis-
gusts me, as does a litany of other things I’ve
seen my classmates do. I’ve seen such con-
duct while the offender was sober, and I’ve
seen it when he/she was drunk. It really makes
no difference to me.

Drunkenness, common as it is on our , _

campus, may excuse some behavior, but it is
absolutely no excuse for some of the horrify-
ing things I’ve seen.

So, for the record, I humbly submit to the
Washington and Lee Community that the fol-
lowing things should beconsidered dishonor-
able without question: Getting someone drunk
with the express intent of taking advantage of
them, any sort of sexual harassment (you guys
know the kind I’m talking about, the kind prac-
ticed by that ONE guy at every party), willful
destruction of property (or indifference while
destroying), intentional presentation of false
identification, or intentionally harming another
member of the community (half-drunken play-
fighting, fine, whatever. Breaking a bottle and
charging, no. Hitting a pledge with a baseball
bat, no).

Well, that’s that. I hope I’ve at least got
you thinking about the Honor System. To all

of those who gave me their compliments, com-'

ments, and death threats last week, thank you
for your feedback. A special thank you to Pro-

fessor Mahon, who put his thoughts into.

Groupwise and sent me a much—needed correc-
tion. As always, I encourage you to do the
same if the urge takes you. I’m nothing if not
fallible, and the opinion of several people is
more often correct than the opinion of one.

As Mock Convention demonstrated to the student body, the Democratic
primary was a race to the bottom, not a search for the best man. Scared by the
prospect of either the ﬁery liberalism of Howard Dean or the pessimistic populism
of John Edwards, the party did not so much choose, as settle for John Kerry.

What drives the people working for Kerry 2004 today is not so much excite-
ment about their man as hatred of the president. Alas, with nothing to inspire
Democrats at the top of the ticket, the current verve will wither over the long, hot
summer. I
Come November, only the looniest of the Left and the most rabid Bush-
haters will be pulling the lever for the junior senator from Tax-
achusetts. President Bush is going to make those Vo1vo—drivir1g,
granola—eating, tax-raisers cry in their cornﬂakes with a huge land-
slide (think40 states, minimum.) Here’s_ why:

History: The last time a sitting president was defeated by a
challenger who was not nor had ever been a governor was 1888 when Benjamin
Harrison defeated Grover Cleveland. Sitting senators just can’t win. They simply
have cast too many votes and have spent too much time bloviating and compro-
mising, not the qualities people look for in a leader. Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado
knows this and, looking ahead to 2008, refused to run to replace the retiring Ben
Nighthorse Campbell.

No October surprise: In 2000, President Bush was running a comfortable
three or four points ahead until the story of his arrest for drunk driving ﬂooded the
news. This revelation changed just enough minds to cause a “perfect tie” result.
This time around, there will be no such surprises keeping Bush supporters at
home. Dubya is an open book; the only candidate that can be harmed by elev-
enth-hour disclosures is Kerry. ‘

Prosperity: Much to the chagrin of socialists and Democrats everywhere
(not necessarily the same people), the economy is humming along. Housing
starts, manufacturing numbers, consumer spending and business conﬁdence are
all up. Inﬂation is non—existent and unemployment claims are decreasing. The

    

RIGHT OF THE AISLE
BRETT KIRWAN ‘04

good news for President Bush is that the boom cycle has begun early enough that f » j . j

by Election Day, voters will have internalized the great state of the economy. In

1992, the ﬁrst President Bush suffered defeat despite a growing economy because ‘

the recovery had begun too close to Election Day and Americans had failed to

notice it. His successor later took credit for Bush’s successful economic leader-, . : . '_

ship. Forty-three has been much luckier than his father.
Convention Schedules: The Democrats made a colossal erroa in scheduling
their convention in late July. First, though the president will be using his consid-

ﬁt

erable primary war chest up to the GOP convention during Labor Day weekend, ' ’

Kerry will have to dip into his general election funds starting in
August. Also, anyone who does pay attention to the Demo-

that occur between the two conventions. In addition, the elec-
tion happens so long after the Democratic convention that

any post—convention bounce will have long since evaporated. Finally, whether 1 l - ~

they admit it or not, the third anniversary of 9/11 occurs soon after the GOP
convention, which is being held in New York, reminding the nation of President
Bush’s inspired leadership during that trying time.

Gay Marriage: As much as President Bush wishes that the issue of gay
marriage never arose, John Kerry wishes even more passionately that the
issue will not be on voters’ minds in November. Most Americans are shocked
at the thought of same sex couples being married and the Democratic nominee
hardly needs the added baggage that he’ll be bringing Massachusetts values
to America.

Nader: Ralph will not be as much of a factor as he was in 2000, but any

‘votes he earns will only be drawn from John Kerry. They may not add up to

much nationwide, but can be decisive in battleground states such as Califor-
nia, Florida and New Mexico. '

Given these factors (and the fact that President Bush has done a spec-
tacular job) expect to see red states sweeping the map on November 2.

cratic convention will be distracted by the summer Olympics .

CAIEYANDHISON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

its: Rli\'i(‘}~Tli’i\i’l Pin

PINIONS

Pics 3

Students mustpart1'c1'pa|te,1'n EC forum

Honor System forum? What Honor Sys-
tem forum? Yes, just in case you haven’t heard
yet, there will be an EC forum on Wednesday at
4 p.m. in Lee Chapel to address students’ con-
cerns about the Honor System and the White
Book. I sincerely hope everyone will attend.
There has recently been wide debate of ‘the
Honor System following the most recent EC
verdict. However, it’s been three weeks since
the canceled open hearing
that drew so much ire from
students from all walks of life
across campus.

The student who with-
drew, for those that knew him, is gone from campus
now and out of sight means out of mind. Frustration
and rage stepped aside ﬁrst to ﬁnals, then to Spring
Break, and now to Spring Term and nice weather.
Wﬂl our apathy — an apathy that grows over time like

.. a cancer — prevent us from acting on the events that

incensed so many that an emergency combined is-
sue of the Phi and Trident had to be published? We
as a student body like to complain about things, but
all too often we fail to act. Don’t let this be the time
when you say, “Let somebody else go, I don’t care,
it doesn’t affectme.” .
The Honor System affects us all. For a
long time I held similar sentiments: “I don’t have
anything to fear because the Honor System is
there to protect me. As long as I’m a good per-
son all will be fine.” The EC, those elected to

the EC, and the Honor System are very power-
ful organizations. It took going through one of
the worst experiences in my recent memory, that
of an EC Hearing, and losing a dear friend to the
system for me to fully realize this. The students
that we elect through what has been widely
agreed to be a simple popularity contest hold
our very futures in their hands. Should you be
brought up on an honor violation (and yes, it

can happen to you), their interpre-

MORE THAN MAINSTREAM tation of a twenty-page book will

decide the course of your life.

KELLY!OLARSEN‘05 Don’t you want to have a say in

that?

I applaud the EC for calling this forum. How-
ever, they must do more than just listen to our com-
plaints; they must act on our demands. If they sim-
ply patronize us at this forum, then it is a waste of
time for all parties involved. But if anything will
happen, we must show up, and show up in number.

We like to parade our honor system across
the cover of our admissions pamphlets but we
fail to truly discuss the way the system works.
Do you know the course of an honor violation
charge? If not, go to the forum and ask for it to
be explained. There are many aspects of the
Honor System that recent events have chal-
lenged: the way our representatives are elected,
the right of the student body to be informed
about activities of the EC, the appeals process,
issues of confidentiality, Open Hearing jury se-

lection, and the single sanction, among others.

If you are unsure of what I mean about
any of these, then write it down on a slip of
paper, drop it off in the envelope and have it
explained to you on Wednesday.

Want to let the EC know you think there
are problems, but aren’t comfortable asking
questions at a public forum? A group of stu-
dents, myself included, will be distributing
white ribbons (in honor of the white book)
across campus beginning Monday to show
support for EC reform. Pin one to your shirt as
a visible example to the EC of your support.
Let them know that you are holding them ac-
countable for their actions.

So turn in questions, wear a ribbon, and
then show up on Wednesday. EC President
Marie Trimble has said that the EC will try to
address any questions and concerns not previ-
ously submitted, so if you have a question at
the forum, raise your hand and ask. They should
be able to answer it. And keep asking questions
until you have received an answer that fully
satisfies you. If the EC runs out of time, de-
mand that they schedule a second forum. Don’t
stop because the EC says it’s time to go; they
have an obligation to us, the people that elected
them and the people whose lives they are af-
fecting, to answer every single question we
have. First though, you need to show up — your
very future could be at stake.

A notice from the Executive Committee

Dear W&L Community,

In response to recent interest and criticism regarding the Honor
System, the Executive Committee of the Student Body would like to
invite you to an open forum at 4 PM on Wednesday, May 5, 2004 at Lee
Chapel. In order for the Committee to be fully prepared, we ask that
questions be submitted prior to May 4"‘. Please submit questions at the
following locations: (1) an envelope attached to the EC board in the
Café/Emporiurn, (2) an envelope located outside of the EC ofﬁce, Univer-
sity Center room 122, or (3) by email to ec@wlu.edu. The Committee will
begin the forum be addressing previously submitted questions. The

Committee will then open the ﬂoor for further comments and concerns.
Please remember the Committee cannot discuss speciﬁc Executive Com-

mittee Hearings.

Sincerely,

and Lane Morgan.

We look forward to seeing you there. Please feel free to contact
the EC with any questions at ec@wlu.edu.

The Executive Committee of the Student Body: Marie T rimble,
Cristin Nunez, Justin Arnold, Marc Granger, Darmel Duddy, Noble
Stafford, Thomas Worthy, Wheeler Sparks, Charlie Yates, David Colman,

Letters to the Editor

Professor- Honor question ‘fudged’

Dear Editor,

In the light of a recent case before the EC,
Caley Anderson (4/26) raises an interesting ques-
tion, only to fudge it: “The question at stake here is
whether or not simply telling a lie, regardless of
scale or intent, constitutes an Honor Violation.” I
say that the question is fudged because a lie is an
intentional action, and one carmot talk of an inten-
tional action “regardless of... intent.” Anderson’s
example of a lie, in which “someone invites me to
something I really don’t want to go to” and “I beg
off because of a “prior engagement” that may or
may not exist” contains a second fudge. If he be-
lieves that he does indeed have a prior engage-
ment, then there is no lie.

Adapting his example to eliminate the sec-
ond fudge, we get “someone invites me to some-
thing I really don’t want to go to” and “I beg off
because of a “prior engagement” that I believe does
not exist.” This, then, is a lie. To return to the ﬁrst
fudge, Anderson says about his lie “my intent is to
spare their feelings. This is not dishonorable, in
fact, this is simple etiquette.” The problem is that
Anderson has confused his intention with his rea-
son for-lying. His intention is to deceive the other
person. What is his reason for lying? Well, he has
already said that he doesn’t want to go to the the
event. So his reason for lying is that he doesn’t

‘ . want to make a commitment to go to the event. In

I
conclusion, then, he lies to another person, and his

reason for lying is that he doesn’t want to make a
commitment to go to the event. I don’t see why this
is not dishonorable. It seems perfectly dishonor-
able to me. Furthermore, his claim that he is lying
 order to spare their feelings,” that is, that he is
doing the other person a favor by lying to him or
her, would appear to be be a classic case of self-
deception. He lies to another person, in order to
get out of making a commitment to do something
that he does not want to do, and then he tells him-
self that he is a good person, since he is sparing
the feelings of someone else.

Luckily, Anderson offers this lie merely as a
hypothetical case.

However, his question may now be raised,
without fudging. Does telling a lie, regardless of
scale, constitute an Honor Violation? Take the case
of a student who lies to another student, whom she
believes intends to set fire to a dorm, that he has
informed Security. Is that liar guilty of an Honor
Violation? I am confident that that liar would not be
found guilty of an Honor Violation. The reason is
that her lying would not normally be considered to
be a “breach of the community’s trust.”

However, most lies are not like that. Most
lies are se1f—interested, like Anderson’s hypotheti-
cal lie. So now the question is: Does telling a self-
interested lie, regardless of scale, constitute a
breach of the community’s trust? My own guess
is: No. My own guess is that a self—interested lie

Celebrate Spring Time

Brides ~ Graduation
witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540)264L0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements

Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day

Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

Test Prep and Admlsslons

Enter Kaplan’s Grad School Giveaway
for a chance to win a free 42" Sony’ Plasma
TV, Sony” DVD Dream“ System, or MP3 player.

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway to enter today!

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/giveaway

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of
Columbia and Canada [excluding the Province of Quebec) and students residing ON A STUDENT VISA in these eligible
jurisdictions who are eighteen (18) years of age or older as at March 15, 2004. LIMIT: One entry per person. All
entries must be received or postmarked by June 15, 2004. For additional eligibility restrictions and instructions to
enter, see the complete Official Rules. available at Kaplan ceﬂters and oncampus sites in the U.S. and Canada.
online at kaptest.com/giveaway. or by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to ‘Grad School‘ Giveaway. 1440
Broadway, 8" Floor. New York. NY 10018. Thirteen (13) winners Will be selected from all eligible entries received in a
random drawing to be held on or about August 9. 2004. Odds of winning depend on total number of eligble entries
received. Participation in this promotion constitutes entrant's full and unconditional agreement to and acceptance of
the complete 0"IClaI Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to
receive notice of future Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kaplari Test Prep and
Admissions, Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway, 8*” Floor, New Vork. NY 10018.

has to be, in some sense that has not been ex-
plained by EC, and that is not given in The White
Book, serious or harmful, in order to constitute a
breach of the community’s trust. But if you are now
worried, because you don’t know when a self—in-
terested lie is serious or harmful, then don’t be.
Simply never lie, or at least, never lie self—interest—
edly, and you will be ﬁne.

Sincerely,

' James E. Mahon
Dept. of Philosophy

‘General’ or ‘President’ Lee?

Dear Editor,

During a tour through Washington and
Lee, my son and I happened to pick up a copy
of the Ring—tum Phi, which we looked through
with great enjoyment. While we also enjoyed
the Opinions section, I was displeased by
your reference to “President Lee.” I do not
know if you are from the South or not, but the
man is generally referred to here as “General
Lee,” as his accomplishments at the head of
the Army of Northern Virginia outshine those
as head of Washington and Lee. Otherwise,
it was very nice writing, but please refer to
this great man properly next time.

Sincerely,

Cynthia Greenwood

See
Mystic River

Tonight, Monday May 3rd, at
p 7:00 in the Eirod Commons

When they were kids growing up together in
a rough section of Boston, Jimmy Markum (SEAN
PENN), Dave Boyle (TIM ROBBINS) and Sean
Devine (KEVIN BACON) spent their days playing
stickball on the street, the way most boys did in
their blue—collar neighborhood of East Buckingham.
Nothing much ever happened in their neighbor-
hood. That is, until Dave was forced to take the ride
that would change all of their lives forever.

T‘wenty—ﬁve years later, the three find them-
selves thrust back together by another life altering
event — the murder of J iinmy’s 19-year-old daughter.
Now a cop, Sean is assigned to the case and he and
hispartner(LAURENCE FISHBURNE)arecharged
with unraveling the seemingly senseless crime. They
must also stay one step ahead of Jimmy, a man
driven by an all consuming rage to ﬁnd his
daughter’s killer.

Connected to the ciirne by a series of circurn—

stances, Dave is forced to confront the demons of

his own past. Demons that threaten to destroy his
marriage and any hope he may have for a future. As
the investigation tightens around these three friends,
an ominous story unfolds that revolves around
friendship, family and innocence lost too soon.

NABORS SERVICE
DAY IS COMING

Saturday, May 15th, 2004 Be a
good citizen for a day and sign up
to help out in the community.

e—mail perinij @wlu.edu for more
inforrnation, or visit _ http://
shepherdapps.wlu.edu/nabors/

Write for
the Phi!

The Phi is looking to hire
' writers for all sections.
Editorships available for
those who want a challenging
and fun extracurricular.

Call x4060 or e—mail
plii@wlu.eduI

RED HOT PROGRESSIVE
BLUEGRASS BAND

MULE TRAIN

FEATUREING: GARY RULEY, WILL LEE,
LARRY KEEL, AND JENNY KEEL

RARE OPPORTUNITY TO BOOK THIS

BAND FOR YEAR END
CELEBRATION
AVAILABLE: MAY 3-5
MAY 1o—12
MAY 17,18, 31
JUNE 1,2

CALL GARY RULEY AT 463-6683 OR 463-
4584 OR WWW.LARRYKEEL.COM

 

   

JOHNHYLAND
A$rrANrSpomsE,Dr1oR Tl"lE RE‘\1=(i~TUi‘vl ljlll
hy1md1b@Wh1edu O R S
l A
MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004 I PAGE 4 '
it
ii
A
,M
1 1 11 1 , 1 1 1 BY STEVEN MARINOS THE RING-TUM PHI 3»

I. d ' ODAC A ' °  

aC1‘ OSSC teams OII111’lat€ COl’Ilp€t1t101’l

W "I dfR A'ii 

omen earn recognition or success Men a cat oano e 111 c ampions 1p
W&L SPORTS RELEASE A - - -
Generals finish season undefeated against ODA C A
LEXINGTON, Va. — Six members of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champion Washing- ' ,
' d
ton and Lee women’s lacrosse team earned recog— W&L SPORTS (N°“h1?°“’ ‘Y’/Nonhport) tafllled two g0,‘11S an
nition on the All-ODAC team which was announced , RELEASE one fasslst dllrmg the Generals gam,e'0pemng run‘ .
on Friday In addition Senior goalie Joanna Fermi Senior goalie Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./ Ab,
. ' ’ . W db F k h M ff h b d
(Huntington, N.Y./Huntington) was named the LEXINGTON V E. h h ank d d unis 2%e11f”;r}r'eII<1>£r£=r:)d iiptthte Erstatrlplofns osmtlire 4 ;)::'h
ODAC Player of the Year, While Head Coach Jan t d d W hin t a1 :Leg  -I de inf of the first 11 shots he faced y g
Hathom was tabbed ODAC Co-Coach of the Year. °P‘Se‘°' ‘’ as 3 °“ an 6 Jump“ 0“ ° . '
.. .. 6-01 d 'd thr hth d "d H ,th M d'd ak ,tll-
seniors, attacker Kelly Taffe (Charlottesville, Va./ A m“ e 0 an 1 Wm °,Ver "r 6 an Sec" g g , ,
Albemarle) and defender Sara Jurkowsky (Annapo— O11d_Seede11 R11 111101.16 111 the ODAC M61115 143- goglsjof-1:e71:12rd quajnér 11? Cit 111; ienelalg lead
lis, Md./Annapolis), as well as junior midﬁelder Kitt cmsse Champlonshlp game on Sunday afternoon to _ W11 ' 1ema111111g111t _e1 11 pen? ‘ ,
Murphy (New York, N.Y./St. Catherines). Senior at— at Wilson Eield. ’ _ . W&L responded by ending the period with
tacker Lee Wheeler (Baltimore, Md./Bryan Mawr) Jumor anackman Gavm Mohnelh Ex?) tSh1:af1_1i1:1 §:;1:ef0;0:10v8;i:ga:;:1;:g; I:1(:1I:1(1):§ "
and sophomore midﬁelder Rachel Wallick (Phoe— _ , ' _

. h, M d. /N D Pr d d h G _ senior midﬁelder Jeff Pattison (Mercer Island,
:11:au_c0nf§:1:1ceaS1::1l1::cti1:)1:1)srv1:1i1t1l11 SeeCg:;1T:aI:1[1:ﬁ_i Wash./Mercer Island) with 11:48 remaining to cut
ODAC . the score to 8-6, the Generals ripped off three-

““?"T"“‘““’“‘S' . straight for an 11-6 lead with 4-21 left in the game ‘A
Perini, who has earned All-Region, All-State ‘ , '
and Honorable Mention All-America honors dur— f11_1h;1:1_:;°%nS addlild two eX11a_nl1an goals 111 the
ing her career, is earning Eirst Team A11—ODAC lau— _ _ V _ 111 ' ’ _ 111C911 not gel any C 0861' ,
rels for the second straight season after posting a PLAYER OF THE YEAR‘ Senior goalie Joanna Penn‘ M011 116111 and Semor attackman M11“
6.42 goals against average and making 140 saves garnered the top ODAC honor‘ ::1:l:1a;1;:;at§lS§:1;‘:/aa:ﬂ:;1N£::1:2;?S1:Lfjhthggs: ’‘
for a .593 save percentage. Her goals against aver— balls and ranking among the squad leaders with . . . '
age ranks in the Top 20' nationally, while her save 21 caused turnovers. ’ a11aCk111a11 Ma11.F111k (W1111111.1g1011.’ 1361'/111111111111)
percentage ranks Top 15. Earlier this season she Wheeler, a ﬁrst teamer in 2001, earned her Enid the 111:l1,.1W1c13T’ wh111&:e/1I1)10§1111d11e1(111(e11(1i1/151111
was named an Inside Lacrosse Division HI Honor— second straight appointment to the second team go; er1:1eEn(e ders  (111aa:1;:)erahi ch 0.1:: ;'__
able Mention Player of the Week. after ranking second on the team with 50 points a ' . S1 ' 16 _ g W1
. . . . . . . 16 saves in net.
Taffe 1S making her second straight first team on a team-high 17 assists with 33 goals. Walhck . . .
. . . . S k Kri D P k , Md./
appearance after earning second team recognition earned her first All-ODAC laurel after starting all Here for1E11;1§1e1da$:CNIe:rO0n: W::11:W(o:1O;0Snand an
in 2002. This season she has notched a teain-high 18 games at midﬁelder, scoring ﬁve goals, grab— . ‘
66 points on a team-leading 53 goals with 13 as— bing 36 ground balls and co-leading the team with ?(S)::11g'evi1:11ee SO11n1:1a:i1:)/C;l1ar:1z(:e1:,11§11:§1ad(1j;1(;1m1(:4gaOSa:1 ~V
sists on her way to setting school records for ca— 24 draw controls. . ’ , ’
al 179 d . 234 ‘ M h , . _ H h . _ while sophomore Matt Madalon (Darien, Conn./
ii’.".f.ft‘.’..eS§..iec1t*2,’.‘.,§.Z2“ZZ§f§§‘i§ p0i)nts1(1):ipn1i]n: ing e§$§£°Z? .i.?’yZ‘a‘i“£Z§.aZ“%§§‘11.‘Z  Dmv Posted   in goal-
d . . . . . . . With the win, W&L claimed its eighth ODAC
ggadl: an twto 2;SS1SlS and is third on the team with Oglelélll an:lth(e1t§ii;c)lprit1Ie1:  thetl:s(t) 132155358, leg Championship and the 1eague,S accompanying I
aw con ro s. t e ener s - o eir six 1 can . . . . . . .
Jurkowsky is making her ﬁrst appearance as ﬁfth berth in the NCAA Division IH Tournament. _ 1I:{”sﬁ‘:l”I’h.“ "“‘°U°“L J‘““°; ““““‘°1:":‘;“f‘ (:'“‘V‘.“ ¥C-AA D‘V‘S,‘)°“ E1 T°“.r1’1“‘;“°“‘ b‘d' Ti‘: Ncéx’?
an all-conference selection after starting all 18 Ranked 11th in the country, W&L awaits who it 0 C ,at1_e 11111.13 10 ypass 11 011111.) C 11 C11 61111 01111111111e111 1110.613 W1 6 announce 011 0 1
games on defense, leading the team with 49 ground will play in the upcoming NCAA Tournament. the team S Wctonous ODAC C11amp1O11S111p game" 1ege Spons Te1ev1S1o11 011 S1111" May 9'
‘ i.

Loss to Mar

SPORTS INFORMATION AND
JOHN HYIAND

LYNCHBURG, Va. - Washington and Lee re-
corded a 4-3 victory over Virginia Wesleyan to force

. a second game in the 2004 Old Dominion Athletic

Conference (ODAC) Baseball Tournament on Sun-
day afternoon, but fell to the Marlins in game two,
12-8.

lowing the top of the second inning, but saw that
lead evaporate after W&L sophomore first baseman
Taylor McConnell connected on a three-run homer
in the bottom of the second to tie the game at 3-3.

In the seventh and game deciding inning,
Sibley led off the frame with a single and advanced
to second compliments of a sacriﬁce bunt by se-
nior shortstop Austin Allain. Sophomore second
baseman Scott Gosselink brought Sibley home in

   

inning, but again saw W&L climb back into strik-
ing distance. The Generals got as close as 10-8 in
the top of the eighth inning, but couldn’t maintain
the late game surge as Virginia Wesleyan added
two more runs in the bottom of the eighth.
Bausch went 3-for-5 with two RBI and a run
scored to lead W&L, while ﬁve other Generals re-
corded a pair of hits. Senior right hander Dan Kagey
fell to 6-3 after giving up three hits and four runs in

ins ends baseball team’s hopes of winning ODAC Championship

Harnpden-Sydney on Friday evening, another team
that had swept them during the regular season.
This time however, W&L was unable to avenge
their previous losses. The Generals tied the score
at three in the top of the sixth, only to see the Ti-
gers respond once again with three runs, all with
two outs, in the bottom of the inning, for a 6-3 lead
en route to a 6-4 victory.

The loss placed the Generals in the loser’s

 

The decision marks the second straight the next at-bat with a double down the left ﬁeld the first inning. bracket and they faced Lynchburg once again on -A
ODAC runner-up ﬁnish for W&L after the Gener— line. ~ In their opening round playoff game on Saturday afternoon’ in an elimination game. The
als ﬁnished behind Virginia Wesleyan in the 2003 Dean recorded his second complete-game Thursday afternoon, the Generals faced second Generals would end up victorious, 6-2.
ODAC Tournament. Senior left hander Peter Dean, victory of the tournament after notching five 1 seeded Lynchburg, a team that had swept W&L The win eliminated Lynchburg and set—up a
senior right ﬁelder Bryan Mulhem, seniorleft ﬁelder strikeouts and holding VirginiaWesleyan to 10 hits. during the regular season. Dean improved his rematch with Hainpden-Sydney. Again the Gener— .}
Paul Sibley, junior catcher Zach Bausch and fresh— Gosselink, Sibley, Bausch and freshman designated record to 8-2 on the year with awin, striking out an als started quickly with ﬁve runs in the ﬁrst two . ' 1
man third baseman Clayton Edwards were all named hitter Richard Garland all recorded two hits for the impressive twelve batters over nine innings. innings, highlighted by freshman designated hitter
to the 2004 ODAC All—Tournament team for their Generals. Edwards was the hero offensively for W&L, ﬁnish— Richard Garland’s three run homer. The Generals
performance in the Generals Championship run. In game two the Marlins again took an early ing 3 for 4 with an RBI and a run. would go on to win, 6-5.
In game one the Marlins took a 3-0 lead fol— lead with an 8-4 advantage following the second The Generals next faced fourth seeded The team wraps up the season 21-16 overall. 1..
ALL AUTO SERVICES - -
W B-Wakes-Exhaust-Tune-up University Cleaners }
 §tt§'. Creczffrrg solutions. crlaaﬂgirig lives. '  S(Ervices _ 011 C'lI1a§lge _ 7   
U. * Engine & Transmission Lexington, VA 24450
........................................................................ . ‘ Replacement/R°b““d 463-3622
SUMMER CAMP J OBS GeneFa1S°PVi°e&RePair _ _ I _ ,.
Car Wash In/Out& Detailing University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
Looking for The best Summer of your life? U_Hau1Tmck&Tmi1er your winter clothing and bedding.’ Each item IS cleaned
camp Easier seals in Virginia has job Rentals andlstored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
openings for camp counselors and program Cleanmg Charges 5_lPPlY 3“d are billed to YOUI h0m9 ;,
leaders (aquatics, horseback riding, music, 10% STUDENT - ._ address in July. Storage is free.
. ————-j-—— Blue Ridge Auto Center
nature, sports and more). Work W|‘l’l1 . -
children and adults with disabilities at one 1973 Ma$“°1“’‘A“*- It couldn’t be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
of our beautiful camping facilities. Staff DISCOUNT ll Buena Vista, VA 24416 and pick it up in the fall, clean, pressed, and ready to ,(
members C01“? f"°l“ “"055 ll‘? U5 “id 1 (540) 261'9377 wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
“"°”l‘d lhe W°"ld- R°°"‘g b°°"d “"d 5°'°'Y federated summer. Call or stop in today for addictional
provided. For information contact Lauren OPEN information
Lightfoot at (804) 633-9855. or , ,_ ,MmFi""§_5 _ ' A _ .
Ii;ghhc°o,»@,,a_wm,._5eal5_o,.9 Sat 8 Noon?“ Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding *

 

 

  

 

 

JOHNHYIAND

AssrrANrS1>o1nsEDr1oR
hylandjb@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 3,2004

STRETCH. Womens’ tennis continues towin.

THE Ri\r;-TUM Pm

PORTS

PAGE 5

Women’s tennis advances to NCAA Nationals
with wins over Mary Washington, Swarthmore

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis
team downed Mary Washington on Saturday and
Swarthmore on Sunday to advance in the NCAA
tournament.

The women preformed strongly in their three-
day tournament, taking all sixth singles ﬂights and
all three doubles ﬂights.

_ The Generals, who scored a total of 72 points,
were followed by ODAC competitors Hollins (51),
Emory&Henry (36.5), Roanoke (28), Lynchburg (N5),
Bn'dgewater(19),VrginiaWesleyan(19),Guilford(135),
Randolph-Macon (10.5), Sweet Briar (10.5), Eastern
Mennonite (6), Randolph-Macon Woman’s (3.5).

Junior Lindsay Hagerman had a 6-1, 6-1
win over Hollins in the finals single action.
Freshman Kristen McClung was also victorious
with a 6-0, 6-3 win over Hollins at no. 2 singles
action. And No. 3 singles player senior Eliza-
beth Law lead the women to a victory, winning
the championships with a 6-1, 6-2 win.

Freshman Ginny Wortham, sophomore Lisa
Mabry, and freshman Katie Kingsbury also put forth
a tremendous effort, winning all their singles
matches as well.

In doubles action, the Generals continued to
come out on top. Teammates Hagerman and
Wortham defeated Hollins, 6-2, 6-1. Junior Lora
Farris and McClung beat Roanoke, 6-1, 6-2. And
Law and Mabry downed Hollins, 6-2, 6-2.

The Generals advanced by playing
Swarthmore yesterday. In singles competition, the
Generals won ﬁve of six matches. In doubles, the
team won two of three.

Hagerman commented that the team was
already making an amazing comeback. “It was
great because we won No. 1 doubles and lost
No. 3, but our No. 2 team won a really key
tiebreaker,” she said while watching her team-
mates yesterday.

She believes the freshmen are playing like
older, more experienced players. ‘“I'hey’re holding
their own throughout the competition,” Hagerman
said. “As a result, we’re just as strong as last year.”

If the Generals win, they will progress to"

NCAA Nationals in Memphis May 12-17.

Letfr /aepe t/ml‘ Bored: does ml‘ eaemz/ée baseball} Zme greatp/egyers

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

p All over the news and
- . 4 ' magazines these days are discus-
A sions about Barry Bonds con-
cerning his alleged steroid use
and the legitimacy of his statis-
tics. The split seems to be about
50/50 between those who like
Bonds and those who don’t.
Well for those of you who blindly
follow Bonds (this doesn’t in-
4_ clude you, Giants fans), this is
why you should not be a fan of
Barry Bonds.

To begin with, let’s clear up
this steroid business. There are
so many people discussing
whether or not Barry even did
steroids, to which I respond,
“Are you freaking kidding me,
‘ LOOKATHIM!!!” Between the

1999 and 2000 seasons Bonds
went from a speedy, athletic out-

ﬁelder with good pop to a muscle-
bound hulk that can’t move. If
he made this transformation with-
out the use of steroids or other
illegal supplements then I would
really like to meet his personal
trainer. . .not that I would be able
to afford him. Many aging play-
ers had taken steroids and then
all of a sudden hit more home
runs than ever before, and Bonds
did the same exact thing. I asked
minor leaguer Josh Pressley
(Mets) a few years ago how bad
he thought the steroid problem
was and he estimated that 75%
of position players use steroids.
Though tests have come out that
indicate a measly 7%, let ’s re-
member that these tests were an-
nounced to the players months
before and that Latin American
players were not allowed to be
tested. This survey told us ab-
solutely nothing, except that 7%

of minor league baseball players
are so stupid that they could
probably learn something from
Jessica Simpson. Having said
this, steroids are everywhere in
baseball, and all you have to look
for is a player whose body
changes dramatically for the bet-
ter over an off-season and whose
slugging percentage rises dra-
matically and you can bet that
there has been some foul play
involved. I salute Bonds for go-
ing right up to the edge of immo-
bility but not crossing that line
as Gary Shefﬁeld did while with
the Marlins.

Now the question be-
comes, “Does this taint Barry

Bonds’ statistics?” Of course it

does! When Albert Belle hit 50
homeruns and 50 doubles in a
season but then was caught with
a corked bat, his stats were
tainted to the point that no one

« Ritter awarded NCAA scholarship

 

 

W&L SPORTS
RELEASE

INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. — Washington and
Lee senior swimmer Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala./
Mountain Brook) has been awarded a National
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Postgradu-
ate Scholarship. The award is a $7,500 scholarship
for academic work beyond the baccalaureate de-
gree as a full-time or part-time graduate student.

Ritter was one of 58 awardees from NCAA
All-Divisions who received the scholarship after
participating in a winter sport. The NCAA awards
174 scholarships armually in the fall, winter and
spring seasons. Football player John Melillo ’03
and tennis player Erika Proko ’03 both received
one of the 174 scholarships during the 2002-03
school year. Ritter’s selection marked the 22nd time
a W&L athlete has been selected to receive an
NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship since 1970.

A biology and classics major, Ritter claims a

3 .879 cumulative grade-point average and plans on
attending medical school at the University of Ala-
bama. .

In swimming, Ritter qualiﬁed for the NCAA
Championships all four years, earning All-America
honors ﬁve times. A three-time College Swimming
Coaches Association of America (CSCAA) Aca-
demic All-American, Ritter will graduate holding
school records in the 100 backstroke (51.07), 200
backstroke (l:5 1 .91), 200 medley relay (1236.12) and
400 medley relay (3:30.18). As a senior, Ritter led

W&L to a 7-0 record and a Bluegrass Mountain’

Conference Championship. A First Team All-Blue-
grass Mountain Conference selection, Ritter fm-
ished seventh in the 100 back and 13th in the 200
back at the 2004 NCAA Championships.

In addition to his work in the pool and class-
room, Ritter has also served as an assistant swim-
ming coach in his hometown of Birmingham, Ala.,
and has been a volunteer with the Lexington Res-
cue Squad.

considers that year an actual
achievement. Steroid use is far
more of an advantage to a player
than corking his bat, though the
combination can be ridiculous
<cough Sammy Sosa>. The im-
pact this has had on his career in
startling. Bonds’ average, home
runs, and stolen bases were all
beginning to drop as he turned
35, which is to be expected. Then
all of a sudden, between the ages
of 35 and 40, he has hit 223 home
runs. . .SO FAR! Retirement prob-
ably would have come within
three years had he not started
juicing, and instead he may pass
a beloved American icon, Babe
Ruth, who only used the kind of
juice that you ﬁnd at W and L
parties. I just hope he doesn’t
make it all the way to Aaron. But
this isn’t the only unfair advan-
tage that Bonds has gained in the
last few years.

 

Possibly more irritating
than the steroid use, is the use of
the bionic arm. With the body
armor Bonds wears, I’m surprised
he can even tell that he’s been
hit, no less feel any actual pain.
Because of ,this body armor and
the fact that pitchers can be
tossed for looking at a hitter
funny give him the ability to
stand on top of the plate with no
consequences. The league has
completely stolen the inside part
of the plate from pitchers whose
last names aren’t Martinez and
Clemens. This gives Bonds the
ability to hit any pitch for a
homerun. Pitchers need to be
able to brush guys off the plate
and reclaim the inside corner
without fear of being ejected, and
batters need to be able to feel the
pain when they get too close and
get pegged. I reminisce on the
days when Bob Gibson would

ounTFsY PORTS iINI~ORMA‘nON
SWIMMER, SCHOLAR. The NCAA awarded senior swimmer Eric Ritter
with its Postgraduate scholarship. '

this week’s schedule

Wednesday May 5

Thursday May 6

Friday May 7

Saturday May 8

Sunday May 9

0 OPEN

0 Track at Liberty--TBA

' Riding at Nationals--
TBA

' Track at JMU
Invitational--TBA
°Riding at Nationals--
TBA

°W Lax at NCAA’s--
TBA

° Track at JMU
invitational--TBA

0 Riding at Nationals-- A
TBA

‘W Lax at NCAA’s--
TBA

Ring-tum Phi -

Spons

BARBER SHOP

17 S. Randolph ~ Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
‘ Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

 

LOOK YOUR BES FOR
SPRING!

Come by and see Skip, Connie and Wilson at the NEW LOCATION!

SKIP THOMPSON’S

      
     
      

Student Discounts  

    

peg you your next at bat after a
home run whether you taunted
or not (What?! I can reminisce
about times before I was born if I
want tol).

Don’t get me wrong here, I
recognize that Bonds is a fantas-
tic athlete, and that he is one of
the greatest hitters of our time. I
even agree that Bonds is clearly
a Hall of Famer, but the thought
of him breaking Aaron’s record
makes me cringe. Bonds would
be a great hitter without the ste-
roids, but he wouldn’t win a bat-
ting title without them and he
certainly wouldn’t have hit 73
home runs in a season without
them. My only hope is that with
how tightly strung Bonds’ body
is with all his muscles that he will
soon tear a hamstring, I dunno
probably walking up the steps
out of the dugout, and stop short
of Ruth or Aaron.

Congrats
ODAC
Champs

You want to go
to medical school,
you have your B.A.,
but the only
science course
you've taken
has been
Physics for Poets.

We have
a program
for you.

Columbia University’s
Postbaccalaureate
Premedical Program is
America’s oldest and best.

11
o
U)
H
o-
in
n
(t
E’.
at
:
1
m
in
n
m
'u
'1
5
m
9-.
n
9.’
1
'1
o
co
1
§

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

gspremed@columbia.edu
www.columbia.edu/culgs/postbacc

C O L U M B I A
School of General Studies

 

 

 

PAGE 6

THE

EB R1N(;;-mi PHI L
AST WORD

MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

No student should go without these ﬁve professors

As June 3 marks the end of my undergradu-
ate career here at W&L, I would like to leave feeling
as though I did what I could while I was here to
improve the lives of others on campus, especially
those who will remain for at least another year. It
has been a long four years, both the best and worst
of my life, and if the few pieces of wisdom I have
gathered through my experiences can be manifested
I as helpful sug-
gestions for
others then I
am obliged to
share what I
can. If, however, my suggestions fail to be of any
use, well then I can’t blame myself for trying.

Since W&L is, first and foremost, an institu-
tion of higher learning, arguably the most impor-
tant aspect of life here on campus is classes, and in
turn, one of the most important aspects of classes
is the professors. Being a C—school major, I have
had very little experience with the vast majority of
professors on campus (and most of the ones I had
freshman year are actually not even here anymore),
but the good professors I have had here have been
excellent, and I highly recommend taking their
classes before you graduate. Here are my top ﬁve
favorite professors (drumroll please!)

1. ProfessorMarc Conner—English. Do not
leave this campus without having had at least one
of this man’s classes. End of story. I had him both
for 105 and for Shakespeare this past term. Overall,
Prof. Conner is by far the most engaging professor
I’ve ever had the pleasure of listening to, and his
extensive knowledge of subject and enthusiasm
for material is unmatched. Albeit a tough grader

THE NAKED TRUTH
COURTNEY PERRY ‘04

with high expectations, he is
very fair and genuinely inter-
ested in his students. You will
learn more from one of his
classes than possibly all of
your other W&L classes com-
bined, and you are wasting
your four years here if you
forego the opportunity of tak-
ing his classes.

2. Professor Robert Ballenger——Manage-
ment. This really only applies to C-school majors,
but if there is anyone else, from any major who
wants to learn the basics about computers, infra-
structures, or anything else IT, Professor’
Ballenger’s Management Information Systems class

    

Conner

is an excellent starting point. Professor Ballenger is '

a tough grader as well (extremely anal retentive when
it comes to details) but is usually very willing to
work with students and answer questions. Be pre-
pared to wait in lines outside his ofﬁce in the days
before projects are due. However, the amount of
information you will learn in his classes, taught
with a genuine interest and expertise (he is very
knowledgeable as far as his
subject matter goes) is abso-
lutely vital to any C—school
major expecting to go out into
the business world after
graduation. On the downside,
this past year has seen the de-
velopment of many extracur-
ricular IT projects in which
Prof. Ballenger has played a
major role. While great for the future of the univer-

 

 

Ballenger

 

sity, these added stresses and time commitments
have sometimes come at the cost of his students,
who have then had to deal with his unapproach—
able and, at times, curt manner.

3. Professor Lyn Wheeler—Accounting.
Again, this is really for C—school majors, but Ac-
counting 201 (basic financial accounting) is good
stuff to know for anyone, really. Professor Wheeler
is very in—tune with his stu-
dents and has a real eye for
the social culture at W&L. He
makes jokes in class that ac-
tually make debits and cred-
its funny and thus not pain-
ful to listen to at 8 o’clock in
the freakin’ morning. He is
very friendly, and always help-
ful (as an advisee, I should

\
Wheeler

know— I tend to need a lot of help), and knows a
ton of people, both on campus, and in the working
world. His tax classes are also very practical for

anyone who wants to learn to do his own taxes.
4. Professor Robert Culpepper—Manage-

ment. Another C—school pro-
fessor, however, Professor
Culpepper teaches Business
Law, with is obviously great for
pre—law students as well as a
requirement for management.
Professor Culpepper is hysteri-
cal, and he looks and talks like
Tommy Lee Jones, which kind ~ A - A
of makes you feel like you’re Culpepper

on the set of the The Fugitive while listening to him
lecture on legal matters during class. Okay, maybe

    

Silver screen lights up again at renovated State

STAFF WRITERS

new computerized ticketing system is put

in place.

Students who are sick and tired of
having to drive to Roanoke or Staunton

fear no more. With the
opening last Friday of the
renovated State Theater,

Hollywood has come once 550W D002
again to Lexington. 73 Going on 30
After a four-month pdmm of like Cjm-5,

hiatus, the State joins the

Commons Theater and

Hull’s Drive-In as local big—screen op-
tions. While its absence hampered the in-
town entertainment scene, management
trusts that the improvements made the
wait well worth it.

Nearly every fixture was refur-
bished inside and out, and new chairs
and Dolby Surround sound have re-
placed out-of—date equipment. Outside
the auditoriums, the concessions stand
now sports a drastically updated appear-
ance and more selections.

Soon patrons will be able to buy tick-
ets and check movie times online once the

Built nearly 70 years ago, the State
had been showing its age for some time.
‘ to get a selection of latest release movies, Yet as the only viable in-town movie- going

PLAYING THIS WEEK:

most students by surprise and left a void
for those who had grown accustomed to
being able to walk to the local movie house.

Management hopes that their reno-
vations will pay off as ticket prices have
increased. Only time will tell if students
are willing to fork over extra cash for a
revamped experience. In an era of sta-
dium-seating and twenty-screen multi-
plexes, the demand for theaters like the
State has been dwindling. As a full-price
competitor to the free Commons and cut-
rate Hull’s Drive-in, it does not have stu-
dents’ undivided attention.

option with the shuttering of
the Lyric Theater two de-
cades ago, the State seem-
ingly had little incentive to
improve itself.

All that changed with
the sudden closing of the
theater in January, which took

ANDREW LAT v/ The Ring-tum Phi

I£r’s so our TO THE rom3Y.]ust about everything at the State is brand new

Q/sz‘z°c Fzhrorzs Ball cgfordah/6 cmdftm, for at good some

BY ERIN ]ULUs
MANAGING EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s second annual Char-
ity Ball for the Beneﬁt of Cystic Fibrosis is to be
held Saturday, May 15 from 7-10 p.m.

Organizers are hoping for a better turnout
this year, ‘since only 65 people attended last year.
This year, organizer Jonathan Leﬂer invited 3200
people to the Ball, and said he expects about one-
third of them to attend.

phi@wIu.edu

Q Overheard at a cocktail party: “I love PIKA’s
little weenies.” A

 

Q Join us on May 22nd for the unveiling of
President Burish’s statue at Goshen Pass in recog-
nition of his saving Spring Term.

Q Today is World Press Freedom Day!

(I) Gone With the Wind won the Pulitzer Prize
only 67 years ago today.
(I) Just to add to the recent vandalism in the

freshmen parking lot: whoever backed into the front
grill of my Volvo cost me $300.

Q The other night, I saw the strangest thing:
On the Commons third ﬂoor, there was a very strange
girl muttering the lyrics to Britney Spears’ “Toxic”
while dancing/ ﬂopping around on the ﬂoor. Very,
very odd. Someone needs to get that girl some help.

(I) To guys: Jeans are hot, khakis are not.

(I) I wonder if the Cadavers are related to the
Knights Who Say Ni?

Unlike most events at W&L, the Ball fea-
tures three sets of scheduled dances, which will
include a polka, Virginia Reel, a country dance “Pop
Goes the Weasel” and a waltz. They will be lead by
dancemaster Becky McKenzie and be preceeded
by instruction. . ' A

Burr Datz’s band, Monrovia, will provide the
music.

Tickets will be sold in the Commons from 1 1-
1 the week before the Ball and may be swiped home.
Tickets are $25 per person, $35 per couple. All the

1

Q Wind Ensemble Russia Tour 2004: Lexington
does Moscow and St. Petersburg! Good times,
good times.

Q Thanks to the Gay Straight Alliance and the
other student organizations for bringing Judy
Shepard to W&L!

Q Graharn—Lees Second Floor Commons side

would like to invite Helen Hughes to Hooters on ‘

May 11,12, or 13. The decision is up to you, Helen.

(1) Many thanks to the visiting Lynchburg Col-
lege girls for the entertainment.

Q Popping your collar is not a sound fashion
statement.

Q Aqua socks are not cute at all.

Q Why are there so many pictures of the girl in
the'black and green polka dot dress at Kite and
Key on Party Pics?

Q For the guy looking over my shoulder this
weekend, my PIN number is 4612.

Q Don’t forget Mother’s Day.

Q I took $1 1 to the State last night expecting to

get a Coke and a ticket, but was wrong.

proﬁts will go to beneﬁt the Cystic Fibrosis Foun-
dation.

Cystic Fibrosis is an incurable genetic dis-
ease that affects almost 30,000 adults and chil-
dren in the United States. Money raised for the
Foundation supports research and more than 117
certiﬁed care centers around the nation that pro-
vide physicians, nurses, therapy, and treatment
to those living with the disease.

W&L’s Ball is one of hundreds of events held
during May nationwide to support the Foundation.

(1) Kudos to all the winning sports teams, men’s
tennis, women’s tennis, baseball, men’s lacrosse
and women’s lacrosse. Keep it going!

Q W&L undergrads now have their own 30-
year-old. Happy belated Birthday to Ethan.

Q Isn’t it terribly unfair to have two rainy Spring
Terms in a row?

Q Congratulations to the whizzes that de-
cided not to move the Saturday night alumni
party from the Front Lawn to the Warner Cen-
ter. Trying to eat, drink and stay dry was quite
an adventure.

Q Who is the student always sitting in her yel-
low Mini in front of Gaines?

Q Ha! Take that, All No one is listening to Air
America. Limbaugh is king!

Q Blue hair? Isn’t that for old women? Who
says W&L isn’t diverse?

(1) You're spot on! The Orbit gum girl is
smokin’!

<1)

of Alumni
phi@ wlu.edu.

Send your anonymous Quick Hits and tales
Weekend embarrassments to

 

not, but it was cool nonetheless. Seriously though,
he is an expert on his subject matter as well, and is
one of the most entertaining professors I’ve ever
had.
5. Professor Dennis Garvis—Management.
Professor Garvis is pretty much strictly C-school.
He teaches Strategic Man-
agement (the C—school
capstone) as well as Statis-
tics and E-commerce Man-
agement (that I’m taking right
now). The best thing I liked
about Professor Garvis’s
' teaching style is fairness. He
has an excellent ability to lis-
ten to students, encourage
discussion, and then he can explain an issue with
a degree of knowledge, intelligence and under-
standing that reﬁects a very high intellect, while
still being able to explain things at a level a stu-
dent can understand. He represents the epitome
in catering to an audience in that he is able to use
language and examples as needed, depending
upon the knowledge and experiences of his audi-
ence, in order to clearly and succinctly get his
point across.
And there you have it. The five best profes-
sors I’ve had at W&L. While four out of ﬁve are
technically C—school professors, many of the
classes they teach are practical real-world applica-
tions that would sincerely beneﬁt any student ven-
turing out into the working world after graduation.
After all, that is what we’re here for, right? Prepara-
tion for the real world? I’ll let you know in a couple
of years.

What did? W&L
do to my baby?

During my son’s junior year (2002) at
Washington & Lee, I decided to subscribe to
the Ring-Tum Phi in hopes to be educated on
current events on campus. I was enjoying the
weekly issues until the end of September when
I was faced with the first article written by my
son, Tim T. Smith (aka Absolut Fratlord). His
first column was an exclusive feature on The
Colonnade

Garvis

‘Club (the "1" FRATLORD’s MOM
timate hook-
ing-up club). MARY LOU SMITH
What an ice-

breaker! This article left me more educated than
I cared to be.

Though I told myself that this article was
just an isolated incident and don’t expect more
stories to follow from my own pride and joy of a
son. I must have been in a temporary state of
denial because the column has continued for
almost two years including a columnist award
to boot.

How has the mom of the Absolut Fratlord
learned to cope with her son who has gained
copious amounts of fortune cookie wisdom dur-
ing his glory days riding the Greek Central rail
in the infamous Lex Vegas?

Coping Strategies-—

Validating Feelings: Wake up husband
and father of the Fratlord in the wee hours with
exclamations that he has quoted us again and
this carmot be our son writing these articles.

Self—Mutilation: Pulling out the gray hairs
that have multiplied since the Fratlord has hit
the presses. ‘

genetic disposition for Fratlordness through the
gene pool that has raised it’s hairy head.

Disassociation: Try to disassociate one-
self from the Fratlord, but instead ﬁnding noto-
riety by being name tagged on parent’s week-
end as “Mother of the Absolut Fratlord”.

Join the Club: If you can’t beat it, join it.
Learn the Lex language.

Hooking-up

Lex Vegas

Greek Central

Frat Cups

Independents

The Dating Rules (Area Codes, Importing)

Living for Spring Term

Fratlordness is a product of his previous envi-
ronments or associations.

The dungeon at Gilliam lllwith Denbow.

The debauchery at the Lambda Chi house
with Early and fellow frat brothers.

The Pit on Randolph St. with Mcllroy and Ali

Or just too many theme parties!

Well, whatever caused his evolution from
a high school geek to the Absolut Fratlord will
never be fully understood. I can say, though,
that Lex Vegas will never be the same after the
likes of this wild and wonderful West Virginian,
Tim T. Smith (Absolut Fratlord ‘04) ends his
column that always expresses the wisdom that
he gained from somewhere other than me.

I am anxious to read the last of his ar-
ticles and hope that he can pass this baton
on to another highly qualified candidate
whose parents can share in this life changing
metamorphosis.

  

 
 

Research Family Tree: Maybe there is a V

Blame the Environment: Maybe the . I

     

.Arcl\
.4? 2578.755
,RS5’2.-.
V, I0’?
no.3
Cr?_

6??
MONDAY, MAY 10,2004

The lmdem‘ voice of .ll’/all/lz'7lg2‘o¢l and U6 U/lizlerlily time 7897

 

   

 

 

   

,.
E C hosts open forum students demand changes
By ERIN JULIUS The EC intends to begin
ED1TOR_]N_CH£EF discussing the issues raised in
the open forum at its Monday
Executive Committee night meeting, said Lane Mor-
in president Marie Trimble led an gan, class of ’07 representative.
open discussion about the “A lot of questions really
Honor System last Wednesday made us think about why we do
in Lee Chapel. Apanel ofEXeC11- the things we do instead of just
.«,I tiVe Committee membersbegan following procedure,” said EC
by answering pre-submitted President Marie Trimble,
questions and addressing com— Questions submitted
mon concerns regarding the prior to the open forum helped
Honor System. the EC understand what issues
‘O The floor Was then opened are important to the student
to discussion. Brett Kirwan, ’04, body. “We could see main ar-
Was the first Student to speak. eas of concern and we were able
KirWan expressed Concern to address them,” said Morgan.
I about the two—thirds rule in hand— Trimble said a few
ing over guilty verdicts. Only changes would be made in the
two—thirds of the EC members short-term_ Freshmen EC can-
must vote ‘guilty.’ Kirwan said didates will hold “candidate plat-
a guilty verdict should require forms," called by the EC ppm-
it a unanimous decision on the dent, in order to students a
part of the EC. chance to see who is running
, Kelly J o Larsen, ’05 then and to force candidates to think
spoke about accountability and about why they want to get in-
A the difficulties in holding EC volved, -
members accountable in Honor Budget allocations will
trials. also change next year. “We will
“My question is how are I hold groups very accountable
we supposed to know if our for what they did and what they STEVEN MAINS) R,-,,g_,,,,,, p,,,«
4 elected representatives are Out spent this year,” Trimble said. Open Forum. Students listen as EC President Marie Trimble speaks at the EC Open Forum held last Wednesday afternoon in Lee Chapel.
of touch with the values of the EC Secretary Justin -
Student b0dy...do We purge the Arnold, ‘05L, said the most concerns raised by students, he postings, “about the White ing the open forum at a “more sees the open forum as only the
entire EC?” Larsen said later. common concerns raised in the said, ‘ Book” on the EC board next year, opportune time.” beginning. “While I feel the
“Unless they give us the num— open forum were in regards to “Better communication “Our Honor system is only “Lately I’ve been con— open forum was successful, I
A hers and names of the Vote or the confidentiality clause. between the EC and the student as strong as student, faculty, ad- cemed about the campus opin— was disappointed in the low
provide some other way of 216- Also, “the openness of the body,”is alsoanEC goal for next ministrator and alumni trust in ion of the Honor System and I turnout and encourage all stu-
countability, they Can’t just say Executive Committee’s opera— year, Trimble said, “Conﬁdenti- it,” said class of ’05 representa- was hoping that the open forum dent to maintain and open dia-
_ We have the poWer to Vote them tions and the secretive nature ality is a legal issue,” she said, tive Thomas Worthy, who said would provide a good discus— logue with EC members,” he
4 out.” 4 of EC hearings,” were important but the EC plans to put more the EC had difﬁculty inschedul- sion,” he said. Worthy said he said.
Pl Beta Phi remains highest GPA HWCWALK
it BY CALEY ANDERSON Rounding out the top ﬁve were The biggest drops were by
OPINIONS EDITOR sorority Chi Omega, with a GPA of Lambda Chi Alpha and Chi Psi.
- 3.363, fraternity Sigma Nu, the high- Lambda _Chi.Alpha...which. was last
Today, the Phi takes a look at est placing fraternity, and fraternity term’s highest ranked fraternity, was
Winter Term grades, and reports on the Phi Gamma Delta, 3.309. only the 7th highest-ranked fraternity
'l standings of the various Greek orgarli- With Pi Phi and Sigma Nu tak— this term with aGPA of 3.229.
zations. Greek organizations are also ing the top places among the sorori- Also performing notably well
compared to last tenn and as compared ties and fraternities, the other end of were the independent men and women.
to Independent men and women. the spectrum was occupied by the Independent women tend to ﬁnish in
.t_ Grades overall took a slight lowest ranking sorority, Kappa Kappa the middle of the pack, while indepen-
boost afterFall Term, acommon occur— Gamma, who finished 14"‘ overall, be— dent men are usually slightly below
rence as students (especially freshmen) hind the other four sororities and the average.
get habituated back to W&L and be— independent women with a GPA of VVlth GPAs of 3.269 and 3.225,
I come more comfortable with their stud— 3.205. the independent women and men, re-
"‘~ ies. The dubious distinction of last spectively, ﬁnished 7”‘ and 12”‘ over-
Leading the pack among the 20 overall went to Chi Psi this term, a all. This represents a gigantic leap for
social groups (including the Indepen— disappointing setback after the independent men, who last term fm-
dent men and women) was, as has be— fraternity’s strong Fall Tenn. Vlflth a ished with a GPA of 3.085, and who
I come habit, sorority Pi Beta Phi, with a GPA of 3.049, Chi Psi ﬁnished behind ﬁnished with a GPA of only 3.197 last
I remarkable GPAof 3.399. all of the other Greek organizations as Winter Term.
Sorority Kappa Alpha Theta well as the independent men and Thecurnulativefema1eGPAwas
came Very close to knocking Pi Phi off women. 3.304, while the cumulative male GPA
their number one throne with a GPA of Among the biggest gainers over was 3.200. Overall, students at Wash-
‘ 3.385. last term were Sigma Chi and Sigma Nu. ington and Lee scored a GPA of 3:249.
1- Pi Beta Phi (3-399) 12. Lambda Chi Alpha (3.229)
2- Kappa Alpha Theta (3385) 13. Independent Men (3.225)
-’~ 3- Chi Omega (3.363) 14. Pi Kappa Alpha (3225)
4- Sigma N11 (3321) 15. Kappa Kappa Gamma (3.205)
5. Phi Gamma Delta (3309) 16. Kappa Sigma (3.165)
6- Sigma Chi (3-286) 17. Beta Theta Pi (3.136)
7. Independent women (3.269) 18. Phi Delta Theta (3.119)
wt 8. Kappa Delta‘ (3.263) 19. Sigma Alpha Epsilon (3.106)
9- Pi Kappa Phi (3-257) 20. Kappa Alpha (3.073)
10. Phi Kappa Sigma (3.250) 21. Chi Psi (3.049) STEVENMAR1 "Wm Pb,-
“' P1“ Kappa PS1 (3239) Graduation. LawCommencementoccl1redlastSaturday forthe ﬁrsttimeirlfrontofLee(Ihapel
ood D Ve feeds 40 families Students plan summer
‘ HRA F ri ' '
BY EMILY EDWARDS “We encourage every— By CATHERIN SWAN
‘ PRODUCHON ASSISTANT one to come out and SENIOR STAFF WRITER
' volunteer...[The food drive]
In late December and gives everyone in the W&L As the school year draws to a close, many students find
early January Melanie Barr, community and Lexington resi— themselves conﬁrming summer plans and ensuring that their
4 Serena Smith, and Marinda dents the chance to help those summers will be fun and rewarding. For many students, this
‘ Harrell began planning for a in their community in need,” involves seeking out a summer internship in the area of their
Spring “Thanksgiving” Food said Barr of this Spring’s drive. major or future career. Because Lexington is limited in terms of
Drive sponsored by the Human Barr hopes to raise six internship opportunities, students often ﬁnd themselves trav-
Rights Alliance. tons of food and encourages eling to metropolitan areas in order to ﬁnd a position that inter-
r» Barr and Smith got the any monetary or food dona— ests them.
idea from a Washington, D.C. tions. Donation boxes are 10- Employers use internships as a means of identifying tal-
high school that raises over cated in the fraternity and so! ent. This process can pay off; approximately 38% of company’s
40,000 pounds of food each rority houses and throughout interns become employees. The journalism department is the
year for area food banks. _ . campus. only department that requires an internship to complete the
K Harrell and Barr also co- . I c0RBIN13LAcKp0RD/ TR,” -13, b, When the drive ends on major. Still, many other W&L students seek out internships on
ordinated a Thanksgiving drive MY CUP RUNNETH °VER- The Nabors Sowice League Suite OVC‘ °“’5 May 14, 40 needy families in their own time. For those seeking an internship, visiting career
in November that raised 7,000 With food donﬂnons for noon)’ Lexington fnnnnon Lexington will have a month’s services can be the perfect place to start.
pounds of food, 2,000 of which . worth of food and a turkey. “From our perspective, it’s a very important part of the
I went to the local food bank. delivered bags donated by given date in the next two weeks. The remaining food will be career development process,” said Beverly Lorig, Director of
This month’s Spring Drive Kroger to most houses in the Volunteers will then take given to the local food bank. Career Services. Long emphasized that career services can help
started on April 27. Barr, Smith, area. Attached to the bags were the food to the Nabors Service Contact Melanie Barr at students market themselves to different companies. They also
and student volunteers mapped ﬂiers asking for food donations League suite and will weigh and barrm@wlu.edu for further in- have a wide variety of resources available for students begin-
out the city of Lexington and that would be picked up at a sort the food accordingly. formation. ning their search, including alumni resources, that are free of cost
)4.

 

 Q. LEYBURN LIBHAH tr
‘rt est-ilriG”i??DN is LEE I’!
it: K,’-“t_‘_"\.”~?»T‘;’,“tlltl, VA 24450

:-':i.irl’ni

PAGE 2

 
   

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

 l  >‘f.'j,l,l\‘

EWS

 

r Fortune writer to visit campus Tuesday

Bethany McLean, a senior writer for Fortune magazine, will dis-
cuss “The Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scan-
dalous Fall of Enron,” on Tuesday, May 11, at 4:30 p.m. in the Elrod
Commons Theater at Washington and Lee University.

Her talk, which is open to the public without charge, is spon-
sored by the Donald W. Reynolds Chair in Business Journalism and
W&L’s Department of Journalism and Mass Communications.

McLean, who joined Fortune in July 1995, has covered Wall
Street and investing, along with a wide range of industries and com-
panies, including Enron; Moody’s; Eli Lilly and the pharmaceutical
industry; Winstar; Lucent; Internet car salesmen; and the business
of professional wrestling.

In 2001, she was one of the first reporters nationally to raise
questions about Enron in her piece, “Is Enron Overpriced?” She has
continued to cover the Enron story for Fortune and, in conjunction
with that work, has appeared on news shows at NBC, CNN, CNBC
and other broadcast networks.

Before joining Fortune, where she also contributes to the “Street
Life” column at fortune.com, McLean worked at the investment bank
Goldman Sachs. She holds a bachelor’s degree from Wilhams Col-
lege.

Fmr. Gov to hold Town Meeting in Lee Chapel

Governor Linwood Holton will give a brief address at a Town
Meeting in Lee Chapel at 7:30 P.M. on 17 May. This is the date of the
50th anniversary of the Brown decision. At that time, there will also
be brief reﬂections by Wanda Early of Lylbum Downing High School,
Class of 1962, Rev. E.T. Burton of Roanoke, the Vice President of the
NAACP at the time of desegregation, William Perry, a former princi-
pal in Waynesboro, Margaret Walker, the school secretary at Lylbum
Downing for her entire career— she was at both the segregated and
the integrated Downing, and Peggy Hayes, government teacher at
Rockbridge County High School. Joseph Mormon, former Lylbum
Downing football coach will possibly be on this program.

Psychology Alum to address students

Captain John Schmidt ’81 will discuss Aerospace Experimental
Psychologists. The talk, sponsered by the Psychology Depart-
ment, will take place in Science Addition 214 on Friday, May 14, at
3:15 p.m.

Phi Eta Sigma inductions

Phi Eta Sigma, the Freshman Honorary, will be having induc-
tions this Friday at 3:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Phi Eta Sigma is a
national fraternity with a minimum GPA requirement of 3 .50. Wash-
ington and Lee requires a 3.70 cumulative GPA for students to be
inducted. Students are chosen based on their performance in the
Fall and Winter terms.

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs to speak at VMI

VMI will hold its Commencement exercises Saturday, May 15.
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Richard B. Myers will
address the 250 Cadets graduating this year. Myers is the highest-
ranking uniformed member of the military services. He acts as the
principal military adviser to the president, the secretary of defense,
and the National Security Council.

Mens Lacrosse to host Messiah College

Next Sunday, at a time to be announced, the men’s lacrosse
team will be hosting Messiah College in the second round of the
NCAA division III Men’s Lacrosse National Tournament. It will be

the last game of the season to take place on Wilson Field. Messiah

received the automatic qualifying bid after winning the Mid—Atlan-
tic Conference championship. Messiah’s Lacrosse team has only
existed for eight short years. Washington and Lee is making its
eighth trip to the NCAA tournament.

W&L places at the IHSA National Championships

Last Saturday at Middle Tennessee State University, W&L com-

peted in the IHSA Equestrian National Championships. Senior Sa-
rah Michaels placed third in novice fences and Sophomore Caitlin

Lane placed fourth in the open ﬂat.

Housing search burdens students

Upperclass students struggle to ﬁnd roommates, affordable, quality housing in Lexington

BY ERIN JULIUS‘
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Every winter, Washington and Lee sophomores struggle to
put together housing arrangements for the next academic year.
Upperclass and Law students rriight find housing on-campus, but
preference is_ given to freshmen and sophomores. So most upper-
classmen must ﬁnd housing in Lexington or Rockbridge County.

Other upperclassmen choose to live in fraternity or sorority
houses, but space in these on—campus residences is also limited.
749 undergraduate students and 347 law students live off—campus,
for a total of 1096 Washington and Lee students who must find

(I) News  

housing each year.

Locating suitable living arrangements is a challenge for most
students. Lexington zoning policies affect students’ house—hunts.
According to Lexington City Manger Jon Ellestad, the city’s
zoning ordinances limit the number of unrelated people living in a

single—family home to three.

Christy West, property manager for Re/Max Realtors in Lex-
ington, said that students can get around Lexington’s zoning ordi-
nance by obtaining a conditional use permit, which must be ap-

proved by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Most students who en-
deavor to find off-campus housing work through a realtor familiar with
the area and with student needs. West serves about 120 students each
year, she said. In» her experience, most students want houses in
Rockbridge County and look for properties with rent that falls between
$750 and $1300.

West said that Re/Max holds about 75 rentals within Lexington’s
city lirriits, many of which are rented by students. Many students have
found that finding a quality home within Lexington’s city limits is diffi-

cult. Landlords often frustrate undergraduate students’ attempts to _

find housing because they prefer Washington and Lee Law students
to live in, “the nicer, smaller apartments,” said West.

Some students ﬁnd apartments that are a viable option, “We
couldn’t find a house for the right number of people that was nice
enough,” said junior Rachel Chisolm, who lives in a three—bedroom
apartment with two of her friends.

Most upperclassmen say they enjoy the chance to live off—cain—
pus. “After living on-carnpus freshman year and sophomore year, I

love the freedom of living off campus and carmot imagine moving back v

on campus,” said junior Kristine Calderone.

Hidden Hero Celia Landgren

Landgren actively involved in campus programs such as University Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGlNG EDITOR

Celia Landgren, a junior Eco-
nomics and Politics major, contrib-
utes in many ways to the Wash-
ington and Lee community. She
describes herself as being like the
“energizer bunny” because she is
always “bouncing off the walls.”

She is actively involved in the
University Shenandoah Sym-
phony Orchestra. She has served
as Concert Master for the past
three years. Landgren said that it
only seemed natural to get in-
volved with the symphony or-
chestra. Both of her parents are
professional musicians. As Con-
cert Master, she coaches all the
sections on various techniques.

Sorority life plays a major role
in Landgren’s Washington and
Lee experience. As president of
Kappa Delta, she oversees all 140
plus girls on a day to day basis.
This number includes eight execu-

tive officers an,d_,40_appoirited of-g
ﬁcers. Before being president, she 1

served as the Vice President for
Publicity.

Landgren is a member of the
Nabors Service League. She has
participated in the last two Nabors

;, ,_fam_ily. 

Service Days where she went to
the Mayﬂower and talked to resi-
dents.

Landgren also acts as the
Chief of Staff of the College Re-
publicans. She was responsible
for planning the Party for the
President. Landgren works in a
secretarial role, working with the
other three executive officers.

Upon graduation, she wants
to go to law school. “lipray every
night that someone will take me,”
said Landgren. She would like to
go to University of Maryland,
Case Western Reserve University,
or George Washington Univer-
sity.

“The most important thing
anyone can do is have a family,”
said Landgren. In ten years she
would love to be on her way to
having a big family with many
children.

“I am definitely not here to
get my MRS degree,” said
Landgren. She wants to work; she
just emphasized the importance of.

‘ Celia Landgren is the type of
leader that makes W&L great. Her
orderliness, excitement, and
unique musical talents make her
an important piece of the Wash-
ington and Lee puzzle.

JEB BROOKS / The Ring-tum Phi
Star Queen. Landgren is behind-the-scene Hidden Hero

     
 
  

MUSIC OUTSIDE GRAHAM—LEES

Spring Time! Wheeler Sparks and Peterjones, members of Red Letter, perform for freshhrnen at the FLC barbeque outside Graham-Lees

STEVEN MARINO The Rz'r1—tum Phi

 
  
  
 
  

 
 

Student Discounts

Creating solutions. Changing lives.

U.

SUMMER CAMP JOBS

Looking for the best summer of your life?
Camp Easter Seals in Virginia has job openings
for camp counselors and program leaders
(aquatics, horseback riding, music, nature,
sports and more). Work with children and
adults with disabilities at one of our beautiful
camping facilities. Staff members come from
across the U5 and around the world. Room,
board and salary provided. For information
contact Lauren Lightfoor at (804) 633-9855
" or IIightfoo‘l'@va.easter'-sea|s.org

Need a ride?
Call Traveller!

458-8900

.11.

 
 
  
 
  
    
 
      

  
 
 

  

 
     
      

 

    
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
   
  

~.

CAIEYANDERSON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
aridersonc@wlnedu

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

THE Ride-run Pin

PINIONS A 0 .

Increasing University name recognition a big deal

W&L, and further, almost 50% of recruiters thought W&L was not
one of the Top 50 liberal arts colleges in the nation.” That is truly
frightening news for those of us that are here to get a good educa-
tion that will lead to a good job. Unfortunately, it seems like not all
of us are here for that reason. Some are here for a four—year party

 

PAGE 3

8 run RING-IUM Pm‘

TAFF EDITORIAL

is There has been a lot of talk around campus for a while about
I Listen up how Washington and Lee University is changing and heading in a
new direction. There have been many public outcries denouncing

Ourlgxecutive Committee did well the evils of “the administration’s” efforts to improve the school’s

to h 01 d an Open Forum for concerned national standing. Everything from cracking down on fraternity vio-

A Students last week. Open dialogue be lastions to encouraging minority students to apply is seen as the before getting a cushy job set-up by daddy or one of his friends’

, warthmorification of W&L. W&L is unique, we must hold dear companies, or marrying the recipient of the latter. For those of us

tween upseft smd_emS  their elected to our traditions and not conform to US News and World Report!” that are using a W&L education as a stepping—stone to future great-

representatlves W111 ceftanﬂy Sﬂengtilen Oh, yeah? Then why the current attack on the EC and honor system? ness, we desperately need that name recognition and higher ranking.

k our Hon“ SY5tem—1f the EXCCUUVC The single greatest, most unique and time-honored attribute of our W&L has been an excellent institution for centuries and yet we are

‘ Committee takes students; lSS1lCS to school is the honor system and I hear rumblings of _m..___ still ‘not well-known, obviously it is time to try some-
heart. whole-sale reform? What other school offers un- M135 lNDEPENDENT thing different.

Accountability, conﬁdentiality and locked doors, unproctored exams (heck, my spel1- ALEXA MOUTEVELIS (06 The honor system, though, is one tradition

communication between the EC andstw check even says that “unproctored” isn’t a word, T»; that is to be kept, as it only reflects well on the school.

I‘. that’s how unheard of it is!), unattended belong- The fraternity system is another animal. Iam not against

dent body are all important issues.
Changes to the EC election process, for
example, open “Candidate Platforms” are
a step in the right direction. Ideally, Can-
"‘ didate Platforms will help in two ways.
Candidate Platforms will introduce po-
tential EC members, and their issues, to
the student body. Candidate Platforms
"* will also demand that candidates exam-

ine their motives for rtmning. Through
A this more formal election process, we

hope some level of accountability can be
A achieved. 0

While it is understandable that con-
ﬁdentiality is an important legal issue, we
also hope that the EC devises some way
A‘ to communicate its individual members’
opinions to the student body. General
confusion about what constitutes an
Honor Violation seems widespread. EC
,, members should be clear and logical
about their views regarding Honor Vio-
lations.

As a campus publication, we prom-
ise to do our part by ensuring that the
Ring—tum Phi is represented at events
such as the open forum. In our capacity
as a student newspaper, we understand
that it is our duty to facilitate communi-
cation between our EC and student body.

This year, there has been much de-
bate about, and disappointment in, the
Honor System. We firmly believe that
the Honor System is one of the most re-
vered of Washington and Lee’s traditions,
and we hope that the EC truly listens to
the student body’s concerns and endeav-
ors to make improvements.

ings, and teachers that trust your word? I’m sure if it was the admin-
istration that was hinting of a review of the honor system, there
would be an uproar! Why are we so willing to change this tradition,
but not other less important ones that tarnish our image?

I think it’s because people here just want to be comfortable
and have a good time instead of taking college seriously. They are
upset about “changes” coming to W&L because they don’t'want to
see their little country-club world threatened in the name of (gasp!)
greater visibility and recognition. In the limited wealthy Southern
world, Washington and Lee is a name associated with excellence,
honor, and tradition, but in the rest of the world it is a name that is
not associated with much of anything. One report noted that “Four
out of five [professional recruiters] were ‘completely unfamiliar’ with

Naturalized as well as natural-born citizens

the fraternity system, Ijust don’t think the whole drink-and-party-
24/7 thing looks good to future employers and grad schools. Obvi-
ously in this tiny town in the middle of nowhere, there isn’t much to
do outside of frat parties, but shouldn’t we do more to enhance our
reputation and present ourselves as a more serious institution? We
have such great potential - it’s just that the greatest things about
our school are being overshadowed. by non-academic issues. We
shouldn’t defend the party culture at all costs; we have to seriously
examine if it is truly harmful to our future. If it comes down to it,
wouldn’t you rather be an alum of “Washington and Lee: a presti-
gious, world-renowned university” than “Washington and Lee: a
school that thinks its greatest accomplishment will come when it
reaches #1 on the Biggest Party School ranking.”

must have right to run for Presidency

)-

te of the Week

))

 
  
     
  

“The patient realized that he would be
unable to crucify himself when he noted e

 
   
  

,t . . . . . .
the impossibility of reaching over to nail
in his Other  ” PHOTO COURTESY or: mir/me/a4rrie.cor/I
I. L ‘ CONANTHE CHIEF EXECUTIVE? Gov. Arnold Scwarzenegger (R-Calif), the foremost naturalized citizen among possible Presidential candidates of the future.
“' ‘A Hartlanda Mame ERteChmC1an- The Constitution, and thus the U.S. fact that only Americans born in America (or immigrants who had just taken the test, the
' government, have always been ﬂexible. This those Americans who had founded America) immigrants outscored the citizens by nearly
is one of the major reasons for our success as could truly understand the idea of American two to one.
__ a nation over the centuries we’ve existed. government. And if you really need final proof
4  Since the Constitution was written, Article II, Two and a quarter centuries later, this that immigrants are capable of high-level ex-
- Section 1, Clause 5 has specified that only is obviously no longer the case. In a world ecutive governance, there is, of course, Gov-*
. _ _ _ _ natural born citizens of the United States have exponentially—better educated than that in the ernor Arnold Schwarzenegger. I didn’t vote
MEMO,’ '"ES’_"ef  the right of aspiring to the Presidency. The late 18"‘ Century, an understanding of the ba- for him during the recall election, but if he
anagmg “or an em“ time is long past due for us to sic concepts of American gov- runs for re-election, I almost certainly would.
7*" . . . make a change. ‘ ’ ernrrient is easy for most 'for- He has done a phenomenal job in office, de-
Optmons Editor Caley Anderson _ _ MODERATES MUSINGS , , _ _ _ _ , _ ,
Ass, Op,-m-om Ed,-to, Anne Finley The reasoning in ‘ eign nationals trying to immi- fying everyone s expectations. He  stood
photography Ed,-to, co,-bin Blackford 1789 was an assumption that CALEY ANDERSON  grate in. up for the environment while still getting the
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland natural born citizens would be There currently re— economy back on track, he’s taken social poli-
J‘ Chad Kiewiet de Jonge completely unfamiliar with the American sys- mains no good reason to deny naturalized citi- cies to both ends of the political spectrum,
P’0d"C’i0" 3“-95"3‘“'“5 Emi|YEdW8l‘dS tern of government, and certainly, in that day, zens the Presidency. Besides xenophobia, I and in the course of his trials, he’s managed
_ K9“? J“ L‘“'““ this was true. The whole importance of the can’t think of anything that would prevent a to unify California Democrats and Republi-
Copy Edm”  Argess A American revolution in world history is its person from agreeing. You could make a very cans as never before.
a "me wan * place as the first major modern movement to- strong argument that the typical natural-born And of course, the Governator has
A Busine” Managers Paul Semen wards popular government. Even the most U.S. citizen is actually less concerned and less hinted at aspirations to the Presidency. This
David seifen friendly Europeans struggled somewhat to un- knowledgeable about U.S. government than January, whoever wins the contested Cali-
c,'rcu1a;,'0,,D,',ec;o, Robnain derstand the Democratic experiment. most immigrants. They, by the way, have to fornia Senate seat that’s up for grabs will
Asst. Circulation Dir Leggett Kitchin Lafayette, a Frenchman and hero of the Ameri- take a rather demanding test when becoming likely go to Washington with a proposed
4 Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb can Revolution, later fought to defend King citizens. When U.S. Citizenship and Immigra— amendment of just the kind I’m advocating.
’ Louis XVI in the French Revolution, much to tion services administered the test to a group So you heard it here first, folks- support
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the the chagrin of some of his former comrades in of 500 random natural born U.S. citizens and Amendment XXVIII in 2008, and vote Arnold
““d°"3"ad"‘“° 5°h°°1Y°*" *“WaShl“8‘°“ 3"“ 1“ U“i"°" the Continental Army. It was simply a given compared them to a random selection of 500 in 2012.
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of _
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent. A
)‘ The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub— . . ' u u
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed R _t Ph Q k P 
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by mg  I U  O
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. “ _ ”
The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions ' _ ' ' ' ' '
,,,  ,,,, ,,,,g,,,,  ,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,  Question By the time the Class of 2008 graduates, W&L Wlll have lost most of the things that makes it unique.
It necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi _ ‘
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper _
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity. 
Ute Ring-tum Phi
‘University Commons Room. 341
A Washington and Lee University
Tnfxizgzom ggggjggggo Yes- 15% No- 80% Don ’t Know- 4%
e ep one: -
Fax: (540) 458-4059 «
E"“"’{ P?"@W’"-ed“ 46 students were polled. 24 male, 23 female. This poll has 90% conﬁdence in a plus or minus 3% margin of error.
Subscription rate $40 _

 

 

  

,walked around campus and

PAGE 4

THIZ RING-TUM Pill

CAIEYANDPRSON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andersonc@wiu.odu

PINIONS

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

Break out of the mold— real University diversity

In a school as small and homogenous
as Washington and Lee, the idea of not fitting
the mold of the typical student can be rather
terrifying. Personally, when I was between com-
ing here and another school, I could feel as soon
as I visited and stayed in the suite of some re-
ally great girls that this was where I belonged. I

again, I am hardly atypical in this aspect. I was
actually born in Richmond, though I only lived
there unll I was a year old, so that explains my
initial geographic and cultural ignorance. And I
was raised in a Republican household, though
I’m really more of a fiscal conservative/social
liberal nowadays, so I didn’t break the mold too
much there either. Finally, I even

could see myself here in the THE BIG PICTURE Was excited at the prospect of
future. Everyone was so . , joining a sorority, which I did
friendly and sincere, whereas   much to my satisfaction. So on

a large state campus seemed
impersonal and unwelcoming. You couldn’t fall
through the cracks at a place like W&L; you
would be supported and embraced.

That is not to say that there weren’t
certain surprises waiting for me. Honestly, I
somehow never focused on the fact that it was
fundamentally such a southern school. Coming
from Texas, Virginia seemed so far north that it
was practically New England to me. And though
if you asked me if it technically fit into the South-
ern region I could tell you that it did, I hardly
imagined it could be the heart of the Deep South,
strewn with confederate ﬂags and all. Yet, once

paper I think I’m a pretty darn
good fit here.

Yet, as the regular Phi reader may have
noticed, I am also very opinionated and pas-
sionate about certain issues. Sometimes, it just
so happens that my opinions may not coincide
with the majority of the student body’s. And I
cannot tell you how many times I have heard in
conversation a friend asking with regards to me
or someone else, “Then why did they go here?”
I’m not ultra—conservative and I don’t have an
extreme amount of Southern pride, “Then why
did you go to this school?” If someone doesn’t
drink excessively or feel the need to party five

nights a week, people wonder why they chose
good old Washington and Lee. And if a student
doesn’t choose to pledge a sorority or frater-
nity, there's that same question again.

One of my favorite personal anecdotes for
this was at the Guerilla Girls presentation (which
if you don’t know was an impressive feminist
comedy troupe). Sometimes I would be nodding
at what I thought was a particularly valid point
only to look around and see the audience seeth-
ing and glaring up at the stage. Ok, maybe the
topic of Mother Theresa should generally be
avoided. By the end, though, I was feeling kind
of energized and proud of being a female. I
turned to one of my best friends and semi-jok-
ingly said, “I’m gonna become a huge feminist
now, what do you think?” I will never forget the
look of horror on her face as she quietly replied:
“If you wanted to be a feminist, why would you
come here?” This conversation was not particu-
larly upsetting, nor was my friendship harmed. I
don’t love people simply because they agree
with my views of things, and a compatible rela-
tionship is based more on common interests than
ideology anyways.

And, relatively speaking, this situation
was tame compared to other incidents I’ve en-
countered. I’m only a freshman, one who has
written only a handful of editorials, and already
one student has told me that I “go against the
entire W&L community every week in my ar-
ticles” and a fellow staffer informed me I should
write all the controversial topics from then on
because all the readers ‘already hate me.’ Dif-
ferences are what make us unique and worth
knowing, but if everyone at Washington and
Lee was exactly the same wouldn’t it be rather
boring? Just think of all the fascinating human
specimens you would never get to meet if they
were deterred from attending our fine institu-
tion out of a sense that they wouldn’t fit in. I’m
extremely proud of the fact that our school is
academically such a selective university, but a
student desire for selectivity based on exclud-
ing people with different life experiences, socio-
economic backgrounds, sexual preferences, or
ideologies is called elitism and cultural igno-
rance. So I say come all ye feminists,
northemers, liberals, and sober drivers; we’d
be lucky to have you.

GSA thinks about self-isolation,

“We’ve come so far,”
is a slogan I hear a lot when
people talk about the Gay-
Straight Alliance. “Yes, yes we
have,” is usually how I reply.
I like to think so. But have we?

Last Spring Term I
took Dr. McAhren’s gay and
lesbian history course. It
seemed to be an especially odd
grouping of people; among my

“Kelly Jo, if you could
only hear my frat house dur-
ing dinner time. Think about
it. It took me four years to get
here, and I’m probably doing
better than most people on
this campus. You just sur-
round yourself with people
who think like you do,” he
replied, or something to a
similar effect. '

c l a s s m ate s  R e a l i t y
was one MORETHANMAINSTREAM check. Did I
gentleman wear blinders
whom I KELLY IO LARSEN ‘05 to the true cam-
w ould de - pus community
scribe as exceptionally at W&L?

fratastic. You know the type—
frat hair, collar up, “good” fra-
ternity (is there really such a
thing?), etc, etc. He was a his-
tory major and I had been in
class with him several times
prior to this one. Always en-
tertaining in any class, he con-
sistently offered a unique and
interesting perspective. To-
wards the end of the term our
class had a discussion about
gays and lesbians in college
fraternities and sororities.
Naturally, that led straight into
a conversation about the GLBT
community at W&L. I made the
comment that I thought things
were really changing at W&L;
that there was a noticeable dif-
ference in the climate at W&L
over the last 2 years. My
fratastic friend, shook his head
and gave me ‘this placating
smile from across the circle.
“What?” I asked.

NSL

After completing a sec-
ond year as GSA Co-Chair, I
wish I could talk to my dear
fratastic friend again.
“Sure,” I would say, “things
might not seem great now,
but they’re better than they
were. There’s a lot we can ac-
complish yet, but we’ve come
great strides.”

Over Alumni Weekend,
KEWL and the GSA hosted a
panel of two openly gay al-
ums. Multiple gay alums at-
tended, each with their own

story to tell. One thing be-

came abundantly clear—they
all believed a discussion of
this type could not have hap-
pened while they were here.
They could cite change from
one generation to the next,
and our generation at W&L
proved no different. We
seem to be on an uphill climb
towards the acceptance of

E-mail perinij@wIu.edu for more information, or visit http://shepherdapps.wlu.edu/nabors/about

the gay community at W&L.
The ‘90s were better than the
‘80s which were better than
the ‘70s and so on and so
forth. Sure, the differences
might be slight in some in-
stances, but they most assur-
edly were there.

Change doesn’t happen
over night. W&L is not go-
ing to become UC— Berkley-
esqe at any point in the near
future; nor the distant future;
nor probably ever. And that

is not a bad thing. W&L is '

more ,diverse than most
people think it is. I reference
you to the General’s Aware-
ness Program brochure to
gain some interesting statis-
tics. It’s not that we are void
of all diversity, we just need
to acknowledge, accept, and
celebrate what makes mem-
bers of our campus unique.
Sure, there’s room for im-
provement, but isn’t there al-
ways?

So, Mr. Fratastic, as I
complete my tenure as GSA
Co-Chair, I say to you, we
have made a difference.
While I might not hear the frat
house dinner conversation, I
will rest assured that they too
will change in time. Someday.
Progress is slow, but it is
progress nonetheless. I in-
vite you to look around, Mr.
Fratastic, maybe you’re the
one surrounding yourself
with people who think like
you do.

Nabors Service Day

This coming Saturday, May 15th, be a good citizen for a day. It’s fun, and you can make a difference in the community.

makes a difference on campus

GSAAccoMy1_1sHMEN-rs, One of the Gay-Straight Alliance’s most controversial recent accomplishments was
the institution of the Safe Place Program. '

From the Multicultural Life website- “The Safe Place symbol sends a message to students,
faculty, and staff. Posting this symbol represents your willingness and commitment to providing a
Safe Place for all students—an atmosphere of acceptance, respect, and assistance. Posting this
symbol does not indicate anything about your own sexual orientation. We recommend posting the
symbol on your ofﬁce door, although any prominent location will do.Why do we need this program
at W&L? Gays, lesbians, and bisexuals are some of the most marginalized members of the W&L
community. In an effort to rectify this, the Safe Place Program was conceptualized in the 1999-2000
school year, and is not a response to any particular incident. Implementation of the program pro-
vides another way to increase tolerance and awareness of diversity of all kinds within the W&L

NSL

RED HOT PROGRESSIVE
BLUEGRASS BAND

MULE TRAIN

FEATUREING: GARY RULEY, WILL LEE,
LARRY KEEL, AND JENNY KEEL

RARE OPPORTUNITY TO BOOK THIS
BAND FOR YEAR END
CELEBRATION
Available: MAY 10-12, 1
MAY 7, 18, 31
JUNE 1,2

CALL GARY RULEY AT 463-6683 OR 463-
4584 OR WVVW.LARRYKEEL.COM

Celebrate Spring Time
Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation

’ vvitha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
A Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages

Speaking Engagements
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

Gr_ad School
Gr veawa

    

   

Enter Kap|an’s Grad School Giveaway
for a chance to win a free 42" Sony” Plasma
TV, Sony‘ DVD Dream’ System, or MP3 player.

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway to enter today!

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/giveaway

Test Prep and Admissions

N0 PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of
Columbia and Canada (excluding the Province of Quebec) and students residing ON A STUDENT VISA in these eligible
jUVi5dICtIDfiS who are eighteen (18) years oi age or older as of March 15. 2004. LIMIT: one entry per person. All
entries must be received or postmarked by June 15. 2004. For additional eligibility restrictions and instructions to
enter. see the complete Official Rules. available at Kaplan centers and oncampus sites in the u.s. and Canada.
onllne at kaptestoom/giveaway. or by sending a sell-addressed. stamped envelope to ‘Grad School” Giveaway, 1440
Broadway. 8'“ Floor, New York, NY 10018. Thirteen (13) winners will be seteqted from all eligible entries received in a
random ciruwingtn be held on or about August 9. 2004. Odds of winning depend on total number or eligible entries
received. Pamclvnlori n this Dmrnasion constitutes orrtrarlrs Mi and unconditional qioemant to and acceptance of
the wmplete Official Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to
receive notice of future Kapian Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kaplan Test Prep and
Admissions. Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway. 8' Floor. New York. NV 10018.

 

  

JOHNHYIAND

Asst-rANr SPOKIS EDIIOR
hylandjb@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

THE  PI--ll

PORTS  

Womens’ lax lose in NCAAS

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

The Women’s Lacrosse team entered the sec-
ond round of NCAA division III nationals Satur-
day, but unfortunately, this was the end of national

competition for the Generals. The Gettysburg Bul-i

lets defeated the Generals 13-8.

Senior Kelly Taffe accounted for 4 of the Gen-
erals goals to lead the team in scoring. The high-
light of the game for the Generals was certainly

()UR'I'ESY SPORTS INFORMATION
Top PLAYER. Senior goalie Ansel Sanders was named

ODAC Player of the Year. -

when Taffe broke both of her own school records
again to make her final record tally 182 goals and
238 points. A

Other point-earners for the Generals included
senior Lee Wheeler (2) and junior Kristen Brown
(1). Senior Joanna Perini knocked away 10 goal at-
tempts by the Bullets. 0

Though the Generals have ended season play
with their defeat, the women still claimed a school
record for a most successful season. The women
claimed 15 wins to a mere 4 defeats.

    

RTESY P PORTS NFOON

Six named to All-ODAC Mens’ lacrosse team

Sanders named Player of the Year, Cerino named Coach of the Year

W&L SRoRTs RELEASE

SALEM, Va. —— The Old Dominion Athletic
Conference announced its all-conference men’s la-
crosse team on Wednesday afternoon. Washington
and Lee claimed six players on the first and second
teams, while senior goalie Ansel Sanders (White
Stone, VaJWoodberiy Forest) was named Player of
the Year and Mike Cerino was named Coach of the
Year.

Sanders, fellow seniors Dustin Martin
(Manlius, N.Y./Fayetteville-Manlius), Lawson
Grumbine (Owings Mills, Md./Gilman), Kenny
Rasamny (Chappaqua, N.Y/Horace Greeley) and jun-
ior attackrnan Gavin Molinelli (Northport, N.Y./
Northport) were all named First Team All—Confer-
ence. Junior defenseman Eric Koch (Mountain
Lakes, N.J./Mountain Lakes) was named Second
TeamAll-ODAC.

Sanders’ selection as Player of the Year was
W&L’s first since Pope Hackney ’0l garnered the
award in 2001. It also marked the first-ever selection
of a W&L goalkeeper for the award. The First Team
All-ODAC goalie each of the past two seasons, Sand-
ers has compiled a career-high .620 save percentage
on 152 saves this season. His 6.14 goals-against
average ranks third in Division HI.

‘ An Honorable Mention All-American last sea-
son, Sanders ranks sixth all—time at W&L with 445
career saves.

Martin, a rriidﬁelder, earned his second—con-
secutive selection to the first team after compiling 38
points on 29 goals and nine assists. An Honorable
Mention All-American last season, he also ranks
fifth on the team with 37 ground balls.

Grumbine, a defenseman, also garnered his
second—straight first team nod after spearheading a
W&L defense which ranks third in Division IH (6.19
gpg). He also tallied two goals and has collected 31
ground balls.

Rasanmy earned his first All-ODAC selec-
tion at the long-stick midﬁeld position. A starter in
all 16 games, he is second on the team with 69
ground balls and has notched a career—high six
points on one goal and ﬁve assists.

Molinelli eamed First Team All-ODAC acco: ’_ ' 3
lades after receiving honorable mention status last

season. He leads the team with 48 points on 17
goals and a tea.in- and career-high 31 assists.

Koch was named to the second team after ' '

teaming with Sanders and Grumbine to lead a W&L
defense which ranks third in Division III (6.19 gpg).

He has scored one goal and claims 19 ground balls. '

Cerino earned his second Coach of the Year
award in three seasons as head coach after leading
the Generals to a 13-3 overall record, a 6-0 mark in
the ODAC and an ODAC Tournament Champion-
ship.

W&L, ranked seventh in the lastest Division
HI poll, has won 1l—straight games after starting
the season 2-3.

West still dam hates 1'11 NBA playoffs

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

The NBA playoffs are well under way now, and for the most part
it’s the usual suspects. The higher seeded team won every series in the
ﬁrst round, which makes the bracket look like that of the women’s NCAA
Tourney. The excitement of upsets that made this yea.r’s men’s touma-
ment so exciting is absent from the playoffs, but it is different in the
NBA, and we want all the best teams playing for the championship. So
here’s a quick rundown of what’s happened so far and what I predict is
to come.

In the East the big three, New Jersey, Indiana, and Detroit, all
advanced easily with only one loss between the three of them. The
fourth series, between the Miami Heat and New Orleans Hornets, was
the troublemaker in the East. As the second round got under way
theses two teams were still busy playing games 6 and 7. Unfortunately,
though this series was really fun to watch due to the athleticism of

Dwayne Wade and Baron Davis, pretty much everyone was tliinking,_

“Are they still playing? Eh, who cares?” It’s widely accepted that these
teams were merely playing for the right to lose to the Pacers,.who had to
wait a couple weeks to begin the second round after sweeping the
Celtics. I myself am still hoping for another Miami miracle, but there’s
no way I’d predict that. . .I’m a Miami fan but I’m not stupid.
Unfortunately, neither of the second round matchups in the East
show much potential for excitement. The Pistons are already up 2-0 on
lge Nets, and New Jersey doesn’t seem to have any answer to the
i side game of the Wallace’s. As previously mentioned, the Pacers

of the Pacers. I would expect the series to be close, but I feel the Pistons
are the best team in the East and will advance to the ﬁnals and try to take
the title back for the East.

The West is as strong as ever, as evidenced by the fact that the
Lakers aren’t dominating everyone with Karl Malone and Gary Payton
as role players assisting Shaq and Kobe. When will sports teams learn?
Signing big name players past their prime doesn’t guarantee a champi-
onship (see Oakland Raiders, the Yankees the past 3 years, and the
Mets). San Antonio has gone up on the Lakers 2-0 and should move on
to the Western conference finals, but the series between the
Tirnberwolves and Kings is much more intriguing to predict. The Kings
have taken home court advantage away from Minnesota with a win in
game 1, and things seem to be working in their favorinother ways as
well. While they can’t expect Latrell Sprewell and MVP Kevin Garnett

' to be that cold again, they also shouldn’t have to deal with 40 points

from Sam Cassell on a nightly basis. Furthermore, Minnesota is bat-
tered, with Troy Hudson and Wally Szczerbiak both out and center
Ervin Johnson nursing a hurt hand. Peja Stojakovic won't be as quiet in
subsequent games (14 points in game one), and the Kings just have so
many scoring options. I would expect the Kings to win this series in 6,
but then lose to the Spurs in the ﬁnals. The Spurs have the experience
in the playoffs and have looked very impressive in the first 2 games
against the Lakers, with 2 ten point wins and the emergence of Tony
Parker as a t:rue leader.

So back to my previous question, will the East have any chance
against the West in the finals? Well, if you learned anything about me
from my prediction in the NCAA Tournament it should’ve been that I

Baseball has ﬁve on ODAC team

W&L SPORTS RELEASE pitched this season, he recorded

a 2.33 ERA and 64 strikeouts with
just 11 walks.
Mulhem received his sec-
‘ond—straight first-team nod after
ﬁnishing the season third on the
team with a .360 batting average
and 50 hits, which included 38
RBI, 12 doubles and a school
record—tying nine home runs.
Gosselink received sec-
‘ond-team laurels after leadingthe

LEX]NGTON, Va. —— Se-
nior left—hander Peter Dean
(Vienna, Va./James Madison)
eanied Old Dominion Athletic
Conference (ODAC) Pitcher of
the Year honors as ﬁve Wash-
ington and Lee baseball play-
ers were named to the 2004 All-
ODAC team, announced
Wednesdayafternoon.  A

Joining Dean on the first

team was senior right ﬁelder erage and 34 runs scored. He also
Bryan Mulhem (Chadd’s Ford, ﬁnished second on the team with
Pa./Unionville). Senior short— 52 hits, driving in 25 runs, includ-
stop Austin Allain (Weston, ing nine doubles and ﬁve home
Mass./Weston), senior right runs.

hander Dan Kagey (Marietta, Allain eamed second team

Ga./Lovett) and sophomore
second baseman Scott
Gosselink (Austin, Texas/St.

honors for the second—straight
season after hitting .304 with 21
RBI and 38 runs. Kagey went 6-3

Stephen’s Episcopal) were all from the mound with a 3.98 ERA
named to the second team. and 58 strikeouts in 72.1 innings
Dean, who is making his pitched.

third appearance on the First-

shouldn’t have much trouble dealing with the Heat, and they have don’t like to take the easy pick. Having said this, I feel that with the Team Aii'0DAC Squads W33 1
already gone up 1-0. So assuming the Pacers and Pistons face off in the addition of Rasheed Wallace, the Pistons have the talent and depth of harried the trip Piteher iii the .0
Eastern conference finals, who can we expect to advance? And, more a Western conference team. Also, tliey’re dominating the Nets like a eeriferehee after Setting the R
importantly, will this team have any chance against the West’s cham- West team does and will actually make the finals interesting this year. I School reeerd fer Wins ih 3 Sea‘ U"
pion? The Pacers won the season series 3-1 and Jermaine O’N_eal pro- don’t, however, think that they can beat the Spurs. San Antonio, as 50h With 3 9'2 0‘/eraii mark this 9’ You Want t0 go
vides a strong inside presence, but the Pistons finished the season as previously mentioned, has the experience and the momentum from a Season: iheiiidirig 3 Seheei R to  School,
the hottest team in basketball except for the Heat, and the duo of the series win against the Lakers and should capture another title and ﬁ- reeerd three Sh1it0iitS- in 3 g) ygu have your B_A_’
Wallaces aren’t alone, with a supporting cast that can handle the depth nally make it out of the shadow of Los Angeles. 5eh°°i‘ree°rd 88-2 ihhihgs E but the only
" 5 science course
hi k: h d 1 3 you’vetaken
t S W66 S SC 6 U 6 ll)’ ,hasbeen
in Physics for Poets.
Wednesday May 12 Thursday May 13 Friday May 14 Saturday May 15 Sunday May 16 1 we have
1
° W Tennis vs. Gustavus 0 W Tennis at NCAA’s-- ° W Tennis at NCAA’s-- 0 W Tennis at NCAA’s-- 0 OPEN lb a program
Adolphus (NCAA)-- TBA TBA TBA V 3 for you.
10:00 - M Lax at NCAA’s-- 3
TBA --
n
‘L
4'U
3
University Cleaners ‘*2 coiu..ti.u........,»,
Ov E 7 North Jefferson Street E  iii P°5ti’_a‘°aia“‘e"t" _
. 3 Premedical Program is

SPORTS?

PWRITE FOR THE

PHI!
458-4060

Lexington, VA 24450
463-3622

University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is cleaned
and stored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
cleaning charges apply and are billed to your home
address in July. Storage is free.

It couldn’t be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
and pick it up in the fall, clean, pressed, and ready to
wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
summer. Call or stop in today for addictional
information. '

Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding

America’s oldest and best.

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

Your
Greens

gspremed@colunibia.edu
www.columbiaedu/cu/gslpostbacc

C o LU MB IA
School of General Studies

Pinheadsl Report to the
J~school comp lab or
prepare to get iced —

BdM

 

Generals with a .380 batting av- ' '

 

 

 

PAGE 6

THE

rHE .lil‘;\l(}~’l'EAt PHY

AST WORD

  

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

Fratlord praises Honor System, questions changes

Spoiled Students with new found power following Spring Term Success should not be so rash in using it

This school ain’t perfect. Neither are any of its
students, faculty, and staff. So can’t we all just agree on this

point and move on?

This year, it seems like the W&L boat has never
stopped rocking. Between this EC business, the demise (and
rebirth!) of Buffalo Creek, the fraternity suspensions, and the
Spring Term issue, there’s just been one thing after another to
keep the uproar constant. Meanwhile, we’ve all lost sight of
how special this place is and why we love it like we do.

, As students at W&L, we are overwhelmingly spoiled. I
can’t think of another college environment where students have
as much as freedom as we do. What’s more, we take it all for

granted.

You couldn’t ask me to count all the times I’ve punted
tests during Exam Week, or how many times I’ve left things
lying around on campus for weeks at a time. Seriously, can you
imagine a W&L without these peculiarities? I can’t.

We know how good we’ve got it. That’s why there’s
been so much uproar when we sense that things are slipping

away.

The Spring Term madness is the best example of all — I
don’t think anyone could have estimated that the backlash
would get as intense as it did. The students saw that one of
our favorite things about the school was in jeopardy, and did

whatever we needed to do to keep it.

well.

these people.

So lets’ move on, shall we?

Now, in the aftermath, we are fully aware of our power
as students at this school. But things are getting out of hand.
We can make a difference, but I think we can go overboard as

Like I said at first, nobody’s perfect. The EC reps
aren’t perfect. And many will agree that even the Honor
System has its flaws and uncertainties, but no more than how
every person in this community has their own imperfections.

Just because you can make a difference doesn’t
necessitate that change is needed. Change can be good, but
apparently it can also be addicting.

It’s frustrating to hear students who, in one breath,
blast the administration for trying to change the school, and
then, in the next breath,‘complain about some aspect of W&L
which they would change if they had a choice. How do you

justify the hypocrisy of worrying about the “branding” of
W&L while trying to modify, adjust, or eradicate some of its
most crucial traditions? It just seems silly.

In my four years, W&L has managed to exist in some

Case in point — the EC situation. With every passing State of
day, it seems our Executive Committee is increasingly If 3 n S i ti 0 I1 .
disparaged, and our Honor System is increasingly attacked. time, We’Ve
That’s funny — I thought we liked how good we have it at this a1C0h01 policy,
school. I thought we president, a
appreciated the ABSOLUT FRATLORD benefits of a new Greek
the Honor System. many Cases, a
And I thought TIM SMITH ‘04 we elected many of our

traditions. Yet,
W&L has

perpetual
During this
just because you can make had a new
a difference doesn’t “cw
new Commons,

necessitate that change is ]ine_up, and, in

needed new stance on
T S oldest
[M MITH miraculously, ‘
managed to

emerge unscathed and remains essentially the same school it has
been. Sometimes change has been necessary, sometimes it’s been
arbitrary, but it’s happened. Now get over it.

I love this school. It’s why I hope to work for the

university next year. And I believe that most of the students here
love this school too. That’s why many are so worried and so
frantic about the changes that have taken place. But it’s time to
stop worrying. It’s still W&L. We still love it.
Just because we can make changes to our school,

doesn’t mean we should go overboard — in the long run, we might
not enjoy what we come up with.

Co—ed speaking outs would solve problem of sexual assault

This past Monday, May 3rd, Panhellenic
sponsored “Day of Dialogue,” a program designed
to bring together women on campus to discuss
pertinent issues affecting female students. Last
year, as my sorority Chapter Treasurer, I was re-
quired to attend “Something of Value,” the previ-
ous years’ equivalent, and was amazed by the dif-
ferent perceptions regarding prevalent problems
on campus, such as eating disor-
ders, alcoholism, depression,
stress, etc. This year, the program
began with a speech from Dean
Watkins, as well as Dr. Jane
Horton, who presented the statistics resulting from
the Health Center survey that went out to students
just before exams last term.

While I don’t particularly consider myself the
‘f ’ word (and by ‘f’ word I mean ‘feminist’ . . . gasp!)
I do consider myself to be militantly anti—ridicu-
lous, and the statistics which reﬂect widespread
victimizations of women on campus are emphati-
cally ridiculous.

Forty—four percent of the entire female stu-
dent population responded to the survey and here
are some of the reported results from the past year:
Four percent experienced verbal threats for sex
against their will; a shocking 22.6% experienced
sexual touching against their will; 8.5% experienced
attempted sexual penetration against their will (at-
tempted rape); and 2.6% experienced sexual pen-
etration against their will (rape), none of which were
reported to the university. Feminist or no feminist
these behaviors are unacceptably, inexcusably ri-
diculous. End of story.

These are the facts of the survey. As far as
perceptions go, being the stubborn, independent,
and at times, overly strong willed person that I am,
I was rather shocked to discover how rampant these
behaviors are. Worse yet, while these statistics
seem to portray helpless female victims being raped
in a dark alley by an alpha—male aggressor, the situ-
ation is apparently, much more complicated and
not nearly as simple.

For example, frat boys have threatened to
ball girls from fraternities if they did not have sex,
essentially destroying their social lives. Now, if this
does reﬂect behaviors that have occurred, I’m not

 

sure who is more pathetic in this situation: the boy ,

who is so desperately horny that he has to threaten

_ THE NAKED TRUTH
 COURTNEY PERRY ‘04

girls in order to get them to have sex with him; the
girl who is so insecure and whose self-esteem is
so nonexistent that she would actually submit to
such abuse (and yes, it is considered abuse in a
court of law) rather than face even the possibility
of social alienation; or the frat brothers who would
dare support the idea of collectively balling a girl
for merely exercising the right to protect her own
body.

Initially, I could not under-
stand why girls would not report
sexual assaults to the University,
or preferably, to the Police, but
was soon reminded of two past cases in which
chrages were brought before the University rather
unsuccessfully. The resulting mortiﬁcation was so
extreme and uncomfortable that the girls involved
had to leave school. This was just three years ago.

Fortunately, a lot has changed at W&L since
I first arrived in Fall, 2000. At the time, nearly all
leadership positions on campus were held by men.
Currently, all student judicial bodies are headed
by women and the Dean of Students is female.
Times have changed at W&L, and so I think it’s
time for a bit of cultural perspective.

There is no doubt that the social hierarchy
and one’s status within that hierarchy plays a
huge role in campus culture. In my opinion, it is
this culture that allows for the aforementioned
situations to occur, as exhibited by the extreme
measures to which one (particularly if one is fe-
male) is willing to resort in order to keep oiie’s
social status intact. While I have never particu-
larly agreed with this culture, I must accept that
this is the way the campus works. That’s not to
say that one can’t ﬁght ﬁre with ﬁre. After all,
what is a large factor in guys’ Rush? Girls. What
makes a party, a party? Girls. We have a lot more
power than we’re aware of, especially if we were
to join forces.

I admit I’m taking a chance here, but I think
that, because of all the pro-female changes that
have been made on campus, we now have the re-
sources and the attitude to deal with sexual as-
sault on campus and eliminate such inappropriate
behaviors. In the past, girls have been too afraid
to report such crimes because of the resulting so-
cial stigmas, and the chauvinistic attitude of blam-
ing the victims, but, these obstacles are certainly

~-.3. .- .-
,A' . n, “ -.

. . . _ ;.,
O .. ‘T. 3.?’ > ”.‘

PHOTO COUTES 0rhz'ta.rtamre 1a.m

GIRL POWER! If the Spice Girls were sexually assaulted, they would report the incident. You should, too.

in the process of being overcome, if they have not
been surpassed already.

However, we’ll never know unless some of
the victims are brave enough to come forward and
report these crimes. Perhaps it would only take one
strong female to lead the way and tell her story
before others would gain the courage to do the
same. We can’t stop what we don’t acknowledge,
and I strongly feel that our campus today cares
about its students and genuinely wants to stop
these crimes. Victims should seek help through
Dean Watkins (that’s what’s great about a small
school, you can actually talk to the Dean herself),
or Dr. Jane Horton in the Health Center.

While I have never been sexually assaulted
or threatened, I feel my social status on this cam-
pus would be a small price to pay to ensure the
safety and awareness of hundreds of other women
on campus now, and the thousands who are to
come in future years.

As for the guys, I apologize to all the real gentle-
men out there who are reading this and are possibly
just as shocked and appalled as most girls were. It down-
right sucks that your sex must suffer through the bad
rep resulting ﬁom a minority of ﬁlthy nasty pigs.

As for the women, ladies, we have a choice
that is ours and ours alone to make. Let’s hear it for
the girls.

 

phi@w/u.edu

Q Beta’s done. The Big Four is now accepting
applications for next year.

Q Joel on being a conforrnist: “I’m not a con-
forrnist just because I wear Rainbow sandals! You’re
the conforrnist— you have an arm; everyone has
arms!” ' ‘

Q Someone needs to call child’s services. I think
a parent left his child to live in the third ﬂoor of the
Commons to annoy many.

(1) To the person who submitted a Quick Hit last
week about that dude’s blue hair: Are your high-
lights “natura ” or did it just say “natura ” on the
box?

Q Mike Homing has never won a game of Mario
Party in his life.

(1) Does TFC stand for Tubgirl Fan Club?
Q If you haven’t listened to David W.

Jacobsen’s new album, “Cubicle Wonderland,”
you are really missing out!

   

Q What did you do for your Mother yester-
day?

Q Don’t forget to reset your clocks and change
the batteries in your fire alarms next weekend.

Q Congratulations to William T. Brooks for writ-
ing a BamesandNoble.com number one bestseller.

Q e. e. cummings did not intend to forego capi-
talization. it was a pub1isher’s decision.

(I) Cosmo is such a raunchy magazine.

Q Sprees are bad for my teeth.

Q Overheard this.weekend outside FIJI: “This
grass is really comfortable, I may make a nest here.”

Q Yahoo! Skyy Vodka now comes in a low-carb
version!

(1) Today was a major day in exploration:

1497, Amerigo Vespucci left from Cadiz for
his first voyage to the New World.

1503, Christopher Columbus discovered the
Cayman Islands and named them Las Tortugas af-
ter the turtles he found there.

1534, Jacques Cartier discovered Newfound-
land.

Q Always look on the bright side of life.

Q The men’s lacrosse team faces Messiah Col-
lege on Sunday at Wilson Field. Go cheer on the
Gennies in the second round of the NCAA tournie!

Q Thomas Worthy talks a lot.
(1) Too much work, I have yet to see Goshen.

Q Coincidence? Stonewall Jackson died today
in 1863 and today is Confederate Memorial Day in
both Carolinas.

Q Did anyone else see Phi editor Caley Ander-
son haunting the halls of the Warner Center wear-
ing a black belt, a martial arts uniform, and carrying
a bunch of blunt weaponry? Apparently, it doesn’t
matter to Caley whether the pen or the sword is
mightier.

Q The buggers are coming? Must be a
Velasquez thing.

Q Coach Joe Lyles is ending his umpteen-year
reign as Club Sports Director. He shall be missed.

Q I saw some Iraqi prisoners being tortured on
the news and I thought I recognized some Beta
pledges.

   

Q Raked over the coals? Burning the candle at
both ends? Spread too thinly? Try Pilates!

Q I’m a lumberjack and I’m okay, I sleep all
night and I work all day.

Q Can Bluegrass really ever be red—hot and pro-
gressive? ~

‘Q Congratulations to the LCA Ultimate Frisbee
Team and good luck in the ﬁnal game tonight against
Phi Delt.

Q Aaargghh! It is actually humanly possible
for a bullpen to be as bad the Cleveland Indians’
is? '

Q So, we either have cold and rainy or
blisteringly hot? Not to be a whiner, but what hap-
pened to 75 and sunny?

Q The Executive Committee is searching for a
conscience and a backbone. Apply through e-Re-
cruiting.

Q Fear the turtle!
Q Submit your anonymous Quick Hits (please,

please, please) and tales of Spring Term love and
lust to phi@wlu.edu.

  
   

 

  

 
  
  

I

  

Arch
5378.755
@552
v./J7
no.4
c . 2..

 

   

THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

i.
T ° t t
A *
STREET
CLSED
pt
. BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN ing the station. Old brick is not
' J, MANAGING EDITOR as strong as modern brick. Mod-
~ em masonry work had to be done
A 121-year-old, 375 ton to ensure a safe moving day.
Lexingtonlandniarkfoundanew Fifty-eight tons of steel and
K home last Wednesday. The Lex- wood combined to support the

ﬁe

ington Train Station, built in 1883,
moved about 400 feet into its new
location in the Gaines Overﬂow
lot. The move cost Washington
and Lee approximately $500,000.

The move has taken
months of planning. Erik

~ Eshleman, program manager for

I the Washington and Lee project
pointed out the difﬁculty of mov-

station during its move. Four-
teen dollies, each containing
eight tires, held the station as it
was pulled by two special tow-
ing trucks across McLaughlin
Street.

Precautions were taken to
guarantee the safety of the his-
torical features of the interior of
the building. The interior wood

(1 across str

wainscoting that paneled the
former segregated waiting room
has been taken down and num-
bered. The doors and other or-
narnentations have also been re-
moved.

“We wanted to move it to
a credible place,” said Tom

Contos, University Architect.

The Gaines Parking Lot actually
sits on the old railway line.
Contos said that the University
was considering putting some
salvage rail on one side and park-
ing on the other.

The University plans on
bringing new life to the train sta-
tion which last served passengers
in 1969.. The primary purpose of
the station over the past 30 years
has been storage. Vice President
for Administration, Joe Grasso,
said the best use for the building
would be a place where groups
from the University and the com-
munity could come together. If
the right buyer came along, the
University would consider sell-
ing it as well.

   

NG-TUM

The rtndent none of Washington nnn’ In Uninenth Jttttt 7897

R

PEI

et, arking a problem ai

A-SAC afﬁ'ms Beta’s
one-year suspension

It BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

. . . _ On Friday May 14, the Student Affairs Committee resolved that

‘L Beta will in fact be suspended from campus next year. The SAC re-

0 viewed the case submitted by the IFC and determined that Beta had

performed incidents of hazing including “repeated forced consump-

tions of concoctions intended to cause nausea, exposure to the ele-

A - ments, and the forced consumption of alcohol.” Beta is now referring
their case to President Burish.

After a lengthy appeal process, the case went before the SAC
last week, said Dean Watkins. Members of the SAC reviewed every
aspect of the accusal submitted by the IFC. In response to those who

' .1 question other fraternities engaging in the same activities, the SAC
responded that “Contrary to what some think, and even what some
have written in the student newspaper reports, there are no reported
hazing incidents as egregious as those admitted by members of Beta.”

, ‘ . However, the SAC also wrote that “The Beta situation is a most
unfortunate one. There are no winners in it—— neither the pledges, the
upperclass students, the House Corporation, the national organiza-
tion, nor the University.” Alumni have been helpful as well in recom-
mending Beta to be allowed back on campus as soon as possible.

A “Our alumni, faculty advisor, and general ﬁaternity are all very dedi-
cated and have been a huge support throughout this process,” says

Seth Martin, current President of Beta. Beta’s advisor, Prof. Chuck

Phillips, was not available for questions or comments.

Hazing is defined as any activity, voluntary or involuntary, im-
posed on pledges. The SAC works to promote all life at W&L, includ-
ing our current Greek System. They are working to further a “a healthy
and vibrant Greek community.” After reviewing all incidents of hazing
submitted this winter, they have determined that Beta is the only fra-
-4 ternity to have acted in such an extreme manner. However, appeals to

the president and the work of many concerned with Beta returning to
campus may result in Beta being a part of life at W&L again. The SAC
believes that this response to incidents of hazing is concurrent with
actions of the SAC in the past.

 

VVith the Gaines Overflow
lot and the Lenfest Center Fan
Lot gone, students are con-
cerned about the already tight
parking situation. The Univer-
sity commissioned a study on
parking last month. Grasso said

EC cuts loose Trident

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR—IN-CHIEF

In a press release, printed at
right, the Executive Committee re-
leased itself of any responsibility for
The Triz1ent’s ﬁnancial situation.

“We wanted to make it very
clear that anything that happens is
between them and the Business Of-
ﬁce and not with the EC,” said EC

-President Marie Trimble. The EC

wrote the press release because,
“one of my initiatives as president
was better communication between
the EC and student body,” Trimble
said “Iknewtherewas thepotential
thattheBusinessOﬂicewillshutThe
Twnfs account and I wanted to
inform students,” she said

The EC wanted to inform stri-
dents because ‘Rve believe the Busi-
ness Ofﬁce will take action in some
way,” said Justin Arnold, EC Secre-
tary.

In 2002, The Trident, normally
independently ﬁnanced, asked the
Fgrecutive Committee for fimds in or-
der to get out from under increasing
debt. When The Trident again asked
forfundsin2003,theEC,“gavethem
thebeneﬁtofthedoubt,”Tiimblesaid

Intheirrequest, The Tridentalso
presentedalistofwaysinwhich they
could reduce production costs and

make money, including increases in .

subscriptions and a reduced nurn—
ber of pages, she said

In their second request, The
Trident made a presentation repre-
senting that they would be able to

pull themselves out of debt with
the request they made, Arnold said.

“They haven’t done any of
these things they said they would
do,” Trimble said, “and they’ve had
more than enough time.”

“We’ve been trying to ad-
dress it, and we addressed it quite
successfully this winter,” Walotsky
said. “By the end of next year, it
would be very reasonable to think
we could be out of debt”

“We are currently taking the
appropriate measures to alleviate
our ﬁnancial situation,” said Donny
Banks, The Trident Business Man-
agen ‘ ’

Walotsky said that The Tn’-
dent averages $400 in advertising
revenue each issue, which is, “sig-
niﬁcantly up this year.” According
to a Business Oﬂice report printed
on May 6, The Trident was $5372
in debt

The Business Ofﬁce con-
tacted the EC, out of concern for
The Trident’s continued debt, said
Justin Arnold, “the Business Of-
ﬁce said we have a situation, what
do you want us to do.”

According to Walotsky, The
Trident is requesting that the Busi-
ness Ofﬁce carry over the debt to
next year so the paper can continue
to operate.

Should anything happen
the Executive Committee is trying
to,“clarifythatitwasn’ttheECshut-
ting them down, but their own ﬁ-
nancial mismanagement,” said
Trimble.

that in the Fall there will be new
or altered parking lots.

The plan to make the train
depot a community center is go-
ing to be postponed until at least
August 2006. The train station
will now be outﬁtted with plumb-

(*7?

VOLUME CVIII, NO. 4

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

 

' PHOTO COURTESY PROFESSOR TED DEIANEY
MAKING ROOM. The train station was moved to the Gaines parking lot to make room for a new building.

ing, electricity, and telecommu-
nications equipment. It will
serve as the construction head-
quarters for the new 60,000
square foot art and music build-
ing projected to open in August
2006.

A press release from

Dear W&L Community,

academic year.

money for future allocations.

Ofﬁce decisions.
Sincerely,

THE EXECUTTVE COMMITTEE
ofTHE STUDENT BODY

According to the rriission statement of The Trident, the
paper has been independently run and financed for the past
decade. However, over the past two academic years, The Tri-
dent has accumulated a mounting debt, and as a result, re-
quested ﬁnancial assistance during Executive Committee Bud-
get Allocations in the VVinter Term of 2002-03. The Committee
responded to their request with an allocation of $3,240.

In the Fall Term of 2003-04, The Trident once again asked
for ﬁnancial assistance. At the time, The Trident was $8,921 in
debt and requested $15,000 in order to reduce debt and expand
the paper. The Trident stated that this was a special request,
and that the paper did not plan to ask for money in the future.
The Committee allocated $5,000 to The Trident with the under-
standing that the paper would increase subscriptions, collect
more advertising revenue, and eliminate their debt during this

The Trident has not substantially improved its ﬁnancial
situation and is currently $6,788 in debt. The Executive Com-
mittee has tried repeatedly to aid The Tridentby responding to
its budget requests, while viewing their requests in light of
other student organization needs. However, The Tridenfs cur-
rent debt is continuing to adversely affect every student orga-
nization at this University because The Tridenfs bills are paid
with money from the Student Activities Fund, resulting in less

It is the ofﬁcial position of the Executive Committee that
it is The Tridenfs responsibility to remedy its ﬁnancial prob-
lems directly with the University Business Ofﬁce. Therefore,
any further actions affecting The T rident’s ﬁnancial standings,
such as the closure of the paper, will be the result of Business

The Executive Committee of the Student Body: Marie Trimble,
Cristin Nunez, Justin Arnold, Marc Granger, Dannel Duddy,
Thomas Worthy, Noble Stafford, Wheeler Sparks, Charlie Yates,
Lane Morgan, and David Colman.

 

Nabors holds sixth annual day of service

 

A
Panel explores Brown
‘ BY KAELA HARMON the leadership that Washington
SENIOR STAFF WRITER and Lee produces an ideal per-
son to speak on the desegrega-

- . Its been 50 years since the tion process.

1, Supreme Court made the decision Other panelists include
inthe BrownvBoard of Education William Perry, a former school
case and changed the face of principal from Waynesboro,

. American education. Washington former NAACP Vice President
V’ and Lee is celebrating that land- from Roanoke, Reverend E.T.
'   mark decision with a panel discus- Burton and several other citizens
-1 sion on integrationthatwill feature from the surrounding area who
W&La1umnusandformerV1rginia played a role in integrating
GovemorLinwoodHolton. schools throughout the state.

The panel was organized
‘ by Professor Theodore DeLaney
of the History Department, and

Bach panelists has a unique per-
spective to bring and will share
reﬂections on how integration im-

is part of a grant he recently re- pacted their community.
_ V ceived from the Virginia Founda- The discussion will be held
*  tion for the Humanities. Profes- today Monday the 17 at 7:30 p.m.

sor DeLaney said that former
Governor Holt was an appropri-
ate decision for several reasons.
_Holt was the first Republican

in Lee Chapel. It follows a series
of ﬁlms on desegregation that
have been shown every Wednes-
day for the past three weeks.

i ‘L governor in Virginia in the 20"‘ While the movies were not very
century but he was a moderate well attended Professor DeLaney
on race. Inthe 1970s, he decided is hoping that the panel discus-
to take a stand against segrega- sion will bring out a number of

. 1 tion and set an example for his people. “I wouldbevery pleased

 

state by enrolling his children in
an all black school. Professor
DeLaney felt that these actions
made Holt a perfect example of

to look out into the audience and
see a large number of people in
the audience but for now I'm
keeping my ﬁngers crossed.”

projects.

mates as a way to honor him.

to be walked.”

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee students showed the Lexington com-
munity their generosity Saturday afternoon during Nabor’s Ser-
vice Day. Over 200 students signed up for the event. On the
actual service day, which began with a kick-off in the Commons,
about 180 students took part in 20 different service-oriented

The SPCA, Mayﬂower nursing home, Rockbridge Area
Transport Services and Habitat for Humanity are just some of the
area agencies where students worked.

“I was very satisﬁed with the people who came and how the
day turned out,” said Nabors Service Day co-chair Jessica
Hunsinger, ’07. “We made a pretty big contribution.”

Tom Borda, ’06, co-chaired the event with Hunsinger.

This year marked the sixth annual service day,’ held in
memory of Jonathan N abors. Nabors, who would have graduated
in 2002, died in a car wreck his freshman year. The N abors Service
League and Nabors Service Day were conceived by his class-

Jenny Hau, ‘O7, worked at Arc Acres, a group home for the
mentally retarded. Hau and her group painted a barn and did
upkeep at the Arc Acres farm. “I’m already involved in some
community service here, but I wanted to do Nabors to get in-
volved outside of the W&L community," Hau said.

Liz Juterbock, ’06, said she always participates in service.
She worked at the SPCA because, “there werelots of sad puppies

“I like animals . . . my friend signed me up and I’m really glad
I did it,” she said, “I had a great time.”

Nabors’ parents were in Lexington for the day, and toured
the service sites with Hunsinger.

HRISTINE GRAY HE ' . G—TUM I-H

ANIMAL LOVERS. Sophomore Lizjuterbock walks a dog from the SPCA
for Nabors Service Day . Over 200 students participated this year at 20

service projects.

  

JAMES ti. i.E‘t’~“r3lllRN UBWARY

wee-:moroNaiEuN%W

‘l r-iwvw.~.'rnM VA 24450

MAY 1939"“

PAGE 2



Registration for sections a must

Registration begins tomorrow. We
at the Phi want to know why we can not
register for speciﬁc sections of a class.

When we register for classes, we
tell the registrar via the intemet what
we want to take. Then we anxiously
wait for the moment schedules are avail-
able on-line. The problem with this sys-
tem is that every student at W&L is
unique. Some of us here at the Phi, for
example, are night people while fewer
of us are morning people. Different
people perform better at certain times
of the day.

Since we do not know what sec-
tion we are in until right before classes
start, we have no time to change them.
Often, professors will not even allow stu-
dents to change class sections. Some of
us have tried to change sections, but were
told that we have to stay in that 8 a.m.
class. Others who perform better in the
morning get stuck in 3-5 p.m. classes. By
the time you get out of class in the winter
it is already dark.

If registration changed to allow a
choice of section, students could not com-
plain about not making it to class because
it was too early or too late. They also
could not complain about the professor
they are taking because they hand-picked

Competition among faculty mem-
bers to attract students would only im-
prove teaching at Washington and Lee.
For example, if no one is registering for
Professor Jones’s section, he can ask the
popular Professor Smith what he can do
to improve his teaching and attract more
students.

We believe that a registration sys-
tem where a student registers not only
for a class, but also a section is the best
alternative. Students who want to be in
the 8 a.m. classes will be able to take
them and those who want to take all
their classes in the afternoon can as
well. This market based approach
would be more effective than a thou-
sand class evaluations.

((

  
 

te of the Week

H

“We are 900 miles over the moon.”

~Coldplay lead singer Chris
Martin, on the birth of his and his
wife’s (Gwyneth Paltrow) daughter,
Apple Blythe Allison Martin,

mi: Rm G-TUM PHI

 
  
   

CALEYANDERSON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andcrs0nc@wluedu

PINIONS

Honor System nearly perfect

A surprising number of students have raised
their voices in favor of reappraisal of our cherished
Honor System. Unfortunately, but not
unsurprisingly, most of what has been written and
said has added heat, not light, to an already ﬁery
debate. Hopefully, increased interest in the work-
ing of the Honor System will lead to a renewed un-
derstanding of its counter—intuitive aspects, be-
cause all the calls for “fundamental” reform betray
a terrible misunderstanding of the system.

Some students, who neglected to even at-
tend the recent open forum, regard the Honor Sys-
tem and the student body with depressing pessi-
mism. Whatever their motivations, they imagine
secret trials in which students are expelled on a
whim and strike at the system’s most basic under-
pinnings. Other students have addressed their com-
plaints to the administration and seemingly forget
the most alluring feature of the Honor System—~
that it is entirely student run.

What we have learned so far is this: many
students are confused by the EC’s recent actions
but, most likely, increased discussion of the sys-
tem has answered their questions. A small minority
of the student body is deeply inimical to both the

EC and the Honor System and wants to overhaul ,

both, but is going nowhere. The truth is the Honor
System is near perfect in its design and the EC has
worked mightily to protect the accused and please
the student body.

Criticisms of the system fall into three main
categories. The first cites the EC for a lack of ac-
countability and demands that the EC release
greater information about the proceedings of honor
trials. Calls for greater accountability arise from an
underappreciation of the measures the EC takes to
ensure the conﬁdentiality of honor trials. Most
investigations do not go to trial

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

STEVE MARINOS / The Ringtum

ACCOUNTABLE. The EC has made great strides to be more accountable, such as therecerit open forum.

the accused and provide the student body with
greater information about honor trials.

Moreover, the EC has made signiﬁcant
efforts to provide students with more information
about its proceedings. For example, all EC commu-
nications are signed with the names of every mem-
ber and the vote tallies in non—honor matters are
published in campus notices and on the web. Also,
honor postings now have greater detail, the EC
held an open forum and is planning a platform de-
bate for next year’s freshmen elections.

The second category of criticism hits the
EC for being insufﬁciently representative. The fact
is, though, when the EC sits in judgment, it is NOT a

representative body. No jury or

and the vast majority of trials end RIGHT OF THE AISLE court, elected or appointed, is.
in acquittals. Naturally, no student ‘ When they vote in honor trials, EC
wants to be under a cloud of sus— BRETT KIRWAN  members, like the justices of a state

picion for the rest of his W&L ca-

reer. Even if a student is convicted and chooses to
withdraw, it is essential that his identity and the
details of his case be. strictly guarded. The lack of
publicity and the vagueness of honor postings work
to ensure this conﬁdentiality.

Some students have called for the vote
totals, or even the way in which each EC member
voted, to be released. Currently, the totals are known
only to the EC president and vice-president and no
one but the individual EC member knows how he
voted. No one has yet devised a system to protect

supreme court, rely on their experi—
ence and good judgment and do not attempt to de-
cide as their constituents necessarily would. On the
other hand, when the EC is involved in more tradi-
tional student government functions, it is a repre-
sentative body and seeks, for example, to distribute
student activities monies as most students would
like to see them distributed. Those who insist that
the EC “represent” the students when making deci-
sions in honor trials or accuse the EC of perverting
the students’ current understanding“ of honor rriis—

‘undefstand this impo'rtant‘distinction. 

The third criticism, by far the most de-
pressing, is not of the EC, but of the Honor System
itself. When students call for replacing the single
sanction with a graduation system of punishments,
they call for the end of the Honor System. What is
a degree of honor? Similarly, can someone be 32
percent honest or 56 percent loyal? Imagine, for

example, that someone is convicted of plagiarism‘ I - f ' A

under a graduated system of punishments but re-
mains a student at W&L. What professor would
then permit take—home exams, unproctored ﬁnals

or group work? If a thief were allowed to remain at ‘ ' - -

school, would security leave the buildings open all
night, would students leave their doors unlocked
and their possessions unguarded in the library or

the D-Hall? Without a single sanction, the Honor _

System falls apart.

True to form, those who have cried most
loudly for reform have failed to offer any solutions.
The Honor System may be in need of tweaking.
Perhaps guilty verdicts should require unanimity
or the judicial and administrative functions of the
EC should be split into two separate groups. The
students who single-mindedly demand change,
blinded by their hatred for the Honor System and
the EC, are as devoid of ideas for reform as their
criticisms are of merit.

One hundred ﬁfty-plus years of practice
have given us a great" Honor System and time will
show that the case for change is overblown.

Resolution to boycott public schools lacks merit

I recently read a news article

   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
     
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
    
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

  

Editor in Chief
Managing Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Acting Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Erin Julius

Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Brett T. Kirwan
Corbin Blackford
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Amess
Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis
Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain

Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed '
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington’ and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

from the Associated Press that struck
me as being completely absurd. Two
prominent Southern Baptists, T.C.
Pinckney and Bruce Shortt, co-
authored a resolution to be brought
before the National Convention urg-
ing all Christian parents to home-
school their children or else enroll
them in Christian schools. Calling U.S.
public schools that claim to be reli-
giously—neutIal “God-

some conspiracy among the other
23% to gain control over all of the
public schools and brainwash chil-
dren into defying God?

I can only assume that the au-
thors of the resolution are referring
to things like the teaching of evolu-
tion and scientiﬁc explanations such
as the Big Bang Theory for the cre-
ation of the universe as a couple of
the “Godless” parts of the educa-

tional offerings.

less” and “anti-Chris— THE BIG PICTURE , Also, explicitly
tian,” the resolution ‘ stated, is an ex-
appealed to the moral ANNE FINLEY  treme aversion to

obligation of parents
to decide how their kids would be edu-
cated instead of leaving the decision
in the government’s hands.

The resolution even saw ﬁt to

state that “just as it would be foolish '

for the warrior to give his arrows to
his enemies, it is foolish for Christians
to give their children to be trained in
schools run by the enemies of God.”
So nowlschools are not only “anti-
Christian,” but they are actually run
by enemies of God? The realities
about our country simply do not sup-
port such preposterous statements.
Although the number has somewhat
declined in recent years, the Ameri-
can Religious Identiﬁcation Survey
still shows a whopping 77% of Ameri-
cans identifying themselves as Chris-
tian. Are they suggesting there is

public schools

“adopting curricula and policies
teaching the homosexual lifestyle is
acceptable”. I consider myself an ex-
tremely open-rriinded individual, but
try as I might, I honestly cannot find
the logic behind these baseless fears.
Vlfith regards to the teaching of
evolution and other non-creationistic
ideas in public schools, I cannot see
why the Southern Baptist Convention
or other denominations can or should
see anything to fear. I believe that
every person has the right to be edu-
cated and presented with all available
scientiﬁc and historical facts. As the
church and state are and must remain
separate, the churches have the right
to instruct in moral and religious prin-
ciples and truths while the schools
have the same obligation and right to

teach according to scientiﬁc and his-
torical data. No religion should be
scared of letting kids make fully—in—
formed decisions about something as
personal as faith.

And the claim that public
schools could be called “anti~Chris-
tian” is simply preposterous. Cre-
ationism, for starters, continues to be
taught in many areas of the country.
And when evolution is taught, at least
in my personal experience, teachers
almost always put out a disclaimer that
you don’t have to believe them but
you just have to know the material for
the tests. Our country, quite simply,
is in great part dominated by Chris-
tianity. You don’t see American
schools teaching African, East—Asian,
or Native American creation myths for
instance. For the most part, Judeo-
Christian values are interwoven into
all areas of society, including politics
and education. I do not mean to say
that this is a problem or that it should
be changed, but simply that the claim
that U.S. education is “Godless” could
not be farther from the truth.

As for the stated concern that
public schools teach the acceptabil-
ity of the homosexual lifestyle, why
must this be such a problem? First of
all, why is tolerance of other people
who are fundamentally just like us in
every way but sexual preference con-
sidered un—Godly or Un-Christian? Is

A point of legalizing sarne-sex marriage

     
  
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
     
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
    
  
  

not the basic precept to love one an-
other and show compassion? But re-
gardless of whether teaching accep-
tance goes against the teachings of
the church, the authors of the resolu-
tion and all Christians simply have,
once again, nothing to fear. As two
renowned visitors to our campus this
year both said, (James Carville at
Mock Convention and Judy Shepard
in her presentation against hate
crimes), tolerance of gays even to the

will not threaten a strong marriage.
And it follows that it should have
nothing to do with shaking a strong
faith.

Faith has nothing to fear from a
liberal education. And nothing radi-
cal has to be done to keep the faith in
U.S. education because it never left.
One of the authors of the resolution
says that if all Baptist parents would
comply with the essential—boycott of
public schools the entire system
would probably collapse and “I think
that would be one of the ﬁnest things
that can happen in the United States”. A _ -
Well, I for one say the public school
system is ﬁne the way it is and should V
not be changed. Christians may make
up a majority in this country, but our
nation was nonetheless founded on
freedom of religion for all and-our -
voices should not speak louder sim-
ply because of greater numbers.

Letter to the Editor

Article blamed women for assault

DearEditor,

I was happy to see that the issue of sexual
assault on our campus was included in last
week’s edition (May 10, 2004) of the Ring Tum
Phi. This is an important issue in need of dis-
cussion among the students. However, after
reading the article in its entirety, I feel as if the
article blames the “victim” for this assault. The
title “Co-ed speaking outs would solve problem
of sexual assault” immediately struck me as vic-
tim blaming.

First, I saw this in your discussion of fraterni-
ties and balling girls for refusal to have sex. The
article reads, “I’m not sure who is more pathetic in
this situation: the boy who is so desperately horny

that he has to threaten girls in order to get them to I

have sex with him: the girl who is so insecure and
whose self—esteem is so nonexistent that she would
actually subrriit to such abuse...” There is abso-
lutely no question of who is more pathetic. The
woman is not pathetic at all. This sounds as if the
woman had fuH control over the situation and could
have just “resisted.” Women should not even be in
this situation in the first place. Your portrayal of the
“girl” in this statement oversirnpliﬁes sexual assault.
If sexual assault could be stopped by “girls” simply
resisting, this would not be a problem.
Furthermore, it seems as if the solution to
sexual assault is simply victims coming out and
sharing their story. Are men not responsible too?

What good will it do if we talk to those who experi— .

enced sexual assault, yet never deal with the ag-

gressors? Yes, this would help awareness, but is
far from the solution. After a woman has been as-
saulted, she feels as if her power has been robbed.

Thus, it is insensitive and ignorant to suggest that -‘ l

a woman will/should voluntarily share her story.
This would essentially re-victirriize the woman, es-
pecially because of our less than understanding
campus regarding assault.

Finally, the picture of the Spice Girls trivializes the

issue of sexual assault. Statistically, one in four women is
a victim of sexual assault in their lifetime. Therefore, most
likely one of them has been assaulted. And how would
we know? Your article just explained the problem of
women not talking about the problem. What makes the
Spice Girls any different from other women?

Sincerely,

Ashley Trice ‘O5

  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
    
  

 

_encompassing

PAGE 3

Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse symp of problems in Iraq

The impact that the pictures from Abu Ghraib
will have on our mission in Iraq can hardly be over-
stated. Why did those soldiers abuse the Iraqis?

The common answer is that they were a few bad
apples; and they ought to be punished for their ac-
tions. This is what George Bush has said. But look at
the pictures. The Americans are smiling and giving the
thumbs up, as a deep—sea ﬁsherman might triumphantly
pose before a 10 foot Marlin once back on dock They
were treating the prisoners just like spoils of victory; as
less than human, as objects. These Americans are not
sadistic sociopaths; for one thing (and lucky for us)
sociopathic tendencies only arise in a minute percent-
age of the overall population. The likelihood that doz-
ens of sociopaths managed to join

THE RlNG~TUM Put

CAIEYANDERSON

« OPINIONS EDIIOR
andersonc@wlu.edu

PINIONS

lions. Oveatenthousandofthesepaidcontractorsareat
workinlraq. Sevexaln1onthsago,Cong1essaskedR1n:rtsfe1d
to tell them what the contractors were doing in Iraq.
Rurnsfeldrepliedwithaletterlisting“allcompaniesinIraq
and their  Rumsfeld failed to mention two con-
tractingﬁrmsthathappenedtobeinterrogatingprisoners
in Abu Ghraib. A few of these employees have rather
colorful backgrounds. South Africans who ﬁred-bombed
Apartheid political opponents’ housesinthe 1980’s. Chil-
eanswhoworkedasPinochet’sarmedthugs.'lhesepeople
arebeingpaidbythePentagontorepresenttheUnited

States in Iraq.
AbuGlnaibistheresu1tofbadplanning. Gmeral
Shinselci wanted real soldiers performing occupation du-
ties, like guarding prisoners. Donald

the same battalion seems auiﬂe un- OUT IN LEFT FIELD Rumsfeld and the neocons had a bet-
likely. Back to the “bad apple” the- ‘ teridea. They thought they could ﬁght
sis of George Bush: So if they’re G1‘-BE CHAPMAN  this war with fewer soldiers, and for

not sociopaths, what are they?

Undisciplined, for one thing; Since the begin-
ning of military operations, the U.S. has imprisoned
about 42,000 Iraqis. Whereto putthem? The U.S. chose
the infamous Abu Ghraib prison, known in Saddam’s
time as the site of particularly gruesome atrocities. The

A Iraqis probably appreciated the symbolic signiﬁcance

as Americans led them into this notorious symbol of
Saddam’s regime. Now, here’s where strategic plan-
ning comes into play. Prisons require lots of guards,
and prisons are part of stabilizing a country after its
leadership has been deposed. General Shinseki said
we needed 200,000 troops for the occupation. Rurnsfeld
said not nearly that many, and Shinseki was ﬁred and
then publicly insulted. So Rumsfeld got his way and
we sent 140,000 troops. Since we haven’t been receiv-
ing the ﬂowers that Rurnsfeld thought we would, we’ ve
had to call up the reserves. In fact, the 372"“ Military
Police Company — the unit that was assigned to man-
age Abu Ghraib ~ is a reserve unit. You may remember
the Anny Reserves from the TV commercials which
advertise, “Only two weeks per year’s commitrnent!”.
These people were sent to manage thousands of unco-
operative prisoners at Abu Ghirab and elsewhere. Their
deployment was extended repeatedly.

Difficult assignments require discipline. Disci-
pline is won through training. These people had, es-
sentially, zero training. None of them had gone through
the special training normally required for prisoner—guard
duty. They were not familiar with the Geneva Conven-
tion. They were people picked off the street. Or, in the
case of the young girl you’ve seen in the pictures, Pfc.
Lyrmdie R. England, picked out of a trailer park These
people are not soldiers. But Donald Rurnsfeld felt they
were good enough to guard prisoners at Abu Ghraib.

Not good enough, apparently, to interrogate
them. For that, Rurnsfeld has hired mercenaries. Doz-
ens of private contracting ﬁrms are being paid by the

Pentagon to perfonn logistical support and other opera-

less money, and guess what? The
private sector and the market had a solution! They would
hire private compcmies to do the job betterand cheaper.
What we are getting is the result of people who are
unaccountable and whose level of training are unknown
to us. Or, in the case of the reservists, their level of
training is known to those in charge, and those in charge
just don’t care. The costs of Abu Ghraib will be dire
indeed.

Don’t let this administration throw up its hands
and say, “Ah, it was just a few bad apples; don’t worry,
we’ll punish them good!” This is a strategic failure, a
failure to plan adequately, a failure to provide the re-
sources necessary to get the job done right. This is
absolutely the Secretary of Defense’s and President’s
fault. If they don’t plan properly, then the results of
poor planning are their fault. This is how executives are
held accountable. If we don’t hold them accountable
for their planning, then how would we ever ﬁnd them
at fault? Otherwise, they can always point to someone
lower on the food chain and say, “they are respon-
sible.”

Don’t forget that the needs of the occupation
were anticipated before the war even started A huge
report was prepared by people inside the Pentagon on
just what the problems would be and how to address
them. Donald Rumsfeld told them to shelve it. He didn’t
even glance at it.

What was done atAbu Ghraib is symptomatic of
a larger problem. Why isn’t the Pentagon bothering to
count civilian deaths? Independent estimates peg the
numberatwell over 20,000. Ifwe don’tcountthem, then
we’re saying they don’t frilly count as costs of war.
That is the message that is sent. Thought the F*CK
IRAQ parties were funny?'Ihenyou’repartofthe prob-
lem too. President Bush made jokesatadinnerinWash-
ington recently. They showed a picture of him peering
underneath the Oval Office desk. He said, “Where are
those WMDs, anyway? I guess not there!” He laughed.

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

PHOTO (.OUR‘I'ESYOF arrmated preys

COSTS. The soldier on the right is weeping for a dead friend. Occupier and occupied are both strained.

Media’s efforts in exposing U.S. POW abuse Vital

Did the media go too
far this time? This is perhaps
one of the most dominant issues
political
discussions at the moment as a
result of the extensive coverage
of the treatment of Iraqi
prisoners at the Abu
G h r a i b

Americans

affairs,

P r , S 0 I, , TRAIN or THOUGHT
Sometimes TRANK]Mt05

the media %————-———
does over-

information loop. Sometimes,
these hush-hush policies are
necessary for maintaining an
advantage in international
especially those
concerning national security,

out of the have truly been effective?
Would that have caused the
same concern and outrage? I
would say no for several
reasons. There is that
common phrase, a picture says
a 1000 words, and in this case,
these pictures speak beyond
that. There are few words that
can express the depths of the
cruelty endured by these
prisoners. A written article or

a broadcast report could never

but at other
times, these
policies simply
aim to cover up
s h a m e f u l
incidents that

sensationalize issues that are
irrelevant and waste time that
could be spent on more critical
issues, but that is not the case
with the media’s current
coverage of the Iraqi prisoners,
despite what some media critics
would argue.

Though the American
government adopts an open-
book policy in regards to its
actions, it does not always
follow this policy, leaving

would infuriate the public.
This is one of the latter
instances. In such situations,
the media serves as a
necessary check on the
government’s actions.

Some say that the media
could have informed the
public effectively by simply
reporting on the humiliating
conditions faced by these
prisoners without releasing
their images, but would that

have elicited the same
emotions as the visual reports.

Not only would an
anecdote not capture the
extent of these atrocities, it
also would leave too much
room for interpretation. One
reader might read the report
and not think twice about
these offenses, considering
them to just be another normal
day in prison life. But these
images leave no room for

interpretation, no room for
excuses, and no room for
comments like “Oh, it can’t be
all that bad.”

Another reason is that
these abuses have been taking
place for some time, though it
has only been reported to the
public now. The report issued
by Maj. Gen. Antonio Taguba,
the key player inexposing this
scandal, documents alleged
incidents that took place as far
back as the summer of 2003.
The following is an excerpt
from his report:

Breaking chemical lights
and pouring the phosphoric
liquid on detainees; pouring
cold water on naked
detainees; beating detainees
with a broom handle and a
chair; threatening male
detainees with rape; allowing
a military police guard to
stitch the wound ofa detainee

University Cleaners

7 North Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
463-3622

University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is cleaned
and stored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
cleaning charges apply and are billed to your home
address in July. Storage is free.

It couldn't be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
and pick it up in the tall, clean, pressed, and ready to
wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
summer. Call or stop in today for addictional
information.

Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding

Celebrate Spring Time
Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation
Witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540)264-0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages

Speaking Engagements
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

who was injured after being
slammed against the wall in
his cell; sodomizing a
detainee with a chemical light
and perhaps a broom stick,
and using military working
dogs to frighten and
intimidate detainees with
threats of attack, and in one
instance actually biting a
detainee.

In addition, (as though
this were not enough), the Red

. Cross had raised concerns

over prison conditions after
visiting them in January of this
year. So why are we only
beginning to address this
issue just now, nearly one
third of a year after the fact?
What is most
concerning is that if the media
had not released these
pictures and thereby set off a
chain reaction of furor and
condemnation, how much

ALL AUTO SERVICES
Brakes — Exhaust - Tune-up
A/C Services - Oil Change —

Engine & Transmission

Replacement/Rebuild
General Service & Repair
Car Wash In/Out & Detailing
U-Haul Truck & Trailer
Rentals

10% STUDENT

DISCOUNT!!
federated

l

Car
Care

$‘li"L:S.3~'A‘.$

 

longer would these conditions
have persisted? Would the
government truly step out of its
self—interested zone and alert the
public to these incidents
through an apologetic
confession? Would the abuses

and the quasi—torturous
interrogations have been
stopped? From Bush’s

response to these incidents in
failing to make an immediate
apology to America, the Arab
nations, and to the world, I
highly doubt it. From my
personal observations, the
American government has not
had such a great record of acting
honorably in these situations,
and it is only because of the
actions of the media as a
watchdog that the truth was
brought to light. If the media
had not gone too far as some
think, how much further would
the government have gone?

 

Blue Ridge Auto Center
1973 Magnolia Ave.

Buena Vista, VA 24416
(540) 261-9377

OPEN
Mon-Fri. 8 — 5pm
Sat. 8 --Noon

 

   

 

  

JOHNHYIAND _
W Rt  E‘  13 t
AssrrANrSPo1nsED1'1oR  .. \ r 11.1 E 3 L.
hy1mdib@Whmdu O R S
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004  I PAGE4
A if i 1..
..
A
,1.
1.
STEVEN MARINOS / THE RU\IG—TUM PH7
SHOOT T0 SCORE. Senior midﬁelder Richard Williams takes a shot in the mens’ lacrosse 12-8 victory in the second round of the NCAA tournament over Messiah College. W&L LAX heads to Maryland Wednesday 1

Men’s lax advances in NCAAs with weekend Win

Team defeats Messiah 12-8 in second round, will face tp ranked powerhse alisbury on Wednesday ~

STAFF REPORTS

who recorded a goal and two assists, Martin, and
freshman midﬁelder Jim Ryan who each added two

goals. Junior midﬁelder Mike Baracco, in addition at
The W&L men’s lax team improved their to helping Chesbrough win acommanding 17 of 24
record to 14-3 and advanced to the NCAA faceoffs also chipped in some offensive heroics
Quarterﬁnals on Saturday witha 12-8 victory over with a goal and an assist. W&L also won the
Messiah College in the ﬁnal game on Wilson Field groundball war by a commanding 49-32 margin. The ,
before it is uprooted and replaced for next season. Generals defense was its usual stellar self, particu— ‘k
The visiting Falcons entered the game 13-3 larly in the second half, in shutting down a very
after winning the Middle Atlantic Conference. They potent Messiah attack that came in scoring almost
scored early in the game to take a 1-0 lead but the 14 goals a game. The defense was led by senior
Generals answered with two quick goals of their goalie Ansel Sanders, the ODAC player of the year, ;_
own from midﬁelders Dustin Martin and Pat Collins who recorded 12 saves. T
to take the lead. The Falcons responded by going The Generals, seeded fourth in the South
on a 4-1 run to end the first half and tooe a 5-4 lead Region of the tournament will now travel to
heading into halftime. The Generals appeared rusty Salisbury to face the top-seeded and top-ranked
after not playing since winning the ODAC champi- Gulls, who are undefeated and the defending na- J‘
onship against Roanoke two weeks ago. However, tional champs. While this is a tall order for any
they came out ﬁring in the second half as junior team, the Generals match-up well, having won 12
Adam Chesbrough won the opening face off and games in a row and possessing one of the top de-
ledaface break, ﬁndingacutting Mike McNamara fenses in the country that could potentially neu- 
who finished the goal to tie the game at 5. The tralize ahigh powered Sali_sbury Offense. The team
senior attackman broke the tie just 1:41 later when seems to agree. “I think it will be a close game, we
he connected on a rocket from the top of the box are peaking at the right time and they have yet to
off apass from classmate Mark McLewee. The Gen— play a defense as good as ours,” Chesbrough said. J
erals broke open the game in the third quarter, Game time is yet to be determined but it will sure to ‘T '
outscoring the Falcons 5-1 to take a 9-6 lead enroute be a battle between the teams with the two longest
to the 12-8 ﬁnal. winning streaks in Division III. The teams last met
In addition to McNamara, the Generals’ of— in the 2000 NCAA Semiﬁnals with Salisbury edg-
fense was paced by senior attackman Matt Fink ing W&L 10-9. LOOKING AHEAD. Senior midﬁelder looks to pass down the ﬁeld with a Messiah defender in pursuit. J},
    3 Women’s tennis
             .        We See Rams team advances to
aeansezeczedro ﬁs*eeatereeinga3~66  .    -      
~ 2  . ‘T . ..  gradeqaotnt average as aChem- strikeouts (232),, V M _ , . _ N C f 1
c03[DAAcade;m¢A[]. F istry trlajor. He led the Generals record re: career ERA.,(a2s} A A qu3__’[_'tC]f lﬂa S »
_i T  F ' 1 . 1-  ‘ A » e A 1 to»a21.~I6overall'record,an1l~7¥ ; Last _ season 1}) ya
'l€tiC Conference and ‘£1 runner-’ DlStI‘lClI  S W against Williayns was much closer
1  , _  A “P-iPQ5i?i,°‘_‘i‘1i the ODAC T0313 4 TAFF RITER for Washington and Lee, but a j,
Wa5hi3g§°“,i, 3“  C ‘ A “Afteran early season loss bit of a heanbreaker. VV1lliams
.h3“§i¢¥ Bet¢5V3-/ A  1;  3 ODAC PitCh‘.5Y and to Denison, I think lots of teams took the victory 5-4. Scorers for
.3am6si?\/iétdison) was one of 1 Baseball Scholar Athlete of the wrote us off for nationals,” said the Generals included Hagerman,
P1333“ _5¢1¢°ted.t° ‘he.-12% Year? 93311 Pitched 3 563891“. sophomore Lisa Mabry. “But we McClung, freshman Katie
vA¢ademi¢2"&13*DiSiri¢‘.¥11  g ,1“3¢°1'd 38-2 inning‘ £91" 64 knew we were serious about mak- Kingsbury, and doubles partners 5*
ban Team’ alm°u.n°ed 0” Thurs“ it jsixikfouts’ 32-33 ERA» a‘3,Ch°°i‘ 4 ing a statement that we were still Hagerman and Wortham. Espe-
day aftemomf T53 team was "‘3¢°1Td fhree Sh‘3{°“tS and 3 inthe game.” The Generals g1adu- cially touching was senior Liz
selected by the College e51v10IT5_ A , S€h001‘T3°°Td for Vi.“-Ories in 3 ated three strong seniors last year Law’s last match. “She played a
Informatiou . Dimléfs '°f  5335011 (9*2)- 19 3ddi.ﬁ°n: he set and are competing with a really great match for 3 hours and 20 R
 (GOSH-’A)~  V. _ » 1115 ODAC ma$kf01‘.C3f€C1"‘WinS< young team. minutes,” said teammate Lisa
A Dean 57‘-‘ms 3 59°: 0” ‘he V WM‘ 3 2937 *3 t331''1'°C°1'd» the After a stellar showing in Mabry. “She was a great doubles
A A the first two rounds of NCAA partner and teammate, I’m really
Division HI Nationals competi— going to miss her next year.”
, * ». .  _ T , in , tion, the women’s tennis team The team ended the year lk
 t 6 M if if A qualified to compete in the strong; however, tying the
Wasmugtoniand Le.e-lmniorga 1 quarterﬁnals in Memphis, Ten- school record for the most wins
iM°C1.m:e (Mf’m1’1‘“.s° Tefn” , V, ; nessee. Atn'p to Graceland added in a season at 24. “The freshman
M¢mPh1$ Umvermy. Schoo some extra fun to the trip. really stepped up this year,” said A
V ?“d 3.0-p.h°m°r°. fjfavild ishay 4 Ranked second, Washing- Mabry. “Everyone expected this
i(Mmm6z’ C73‘! Pref’) 1 2 ton and Lee ﬁrst faced number to be a building block year, but
have both 3dV3“°?'~1;‘°  nine Gustavus Adolphus in the we knew from the beginning that
quanerﬁnals 9f. the.N_CAf$‘ D1“ quarterﬁnal round. The Gener- it was going to be much more.
ViSi»~°n,fm MW,“ Tani-S 31”” , als walked away victorious, de- We’re looking forward to yet an- )-
, Cham9i°nS1,”p S  at _B‘?“’=SV feating Gustavus Adophus 5-3. other good year next year. ” - V A
C°3.15g¢' 1 1 - 1 A C  1   Scoring for the Generals Individually, the Generals
Bah  Shay». were junior Lindsay Hagerman, also had a strong showing.
1 ._ V _ *A:m.¢*‘1°?=’ f’.°1?°t by freshman Kristen McClung, Se- McClung won her first match, but _
T reacfmglmeiequmﬁf  nior Elizabeth Law, and freshman was defeated in her second 
.9°m‘?gm° Ge“°ml_S" {Wt  Ginny Wortham. In doubles, match against Kristen Raverta of
‘?“‘“4°* An'.Am°n°"‘}f Hagerman and Wortham and Law Amherst. Hagerman, seeded
Robby McNaughton. . ~ ‘ . 1 3 and Lisa Mabry teamed up to second, advanced in singles.
V .  Mﬁcmmadvaﬁcéd. 1°  score for the Generals. Again, she earned All-American jr
a paint by idefeating M i.Af.e¢ The team advanced to honors; this being the third time
compete in the serni-ﬁnal round in her college tennis career.
against defending national cham- Doubles partners
pion, Emory. The Generals faced Hagerman and Wortham con-
off with the Eagles in mid-April, tinue to compete in Memphis at A
suffering a loss of 8-1. Unfortu- Rhodes College. They have ad-
‘ 1 -_ , , - _ nately, this match went similarly vanced to the quarterfinals
I V _ “ 1 E ~i /A >1 V ~  1 A T ‘3‘°."?"*”%35“5’5°¥"“. .INF‘°m.“nON ..°?3“l”g»’°'?"f‘ (7 A 64) ‘hag. for the Generals with Emory tak- round. Competition continues
 P““iMF91?¥?    . V  downﬂd 1  5-‘ ing the match 5-0. until late Monday.

 

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Hair created a phenomenon when it hit New
York City in 1968 and will probably create the same
phenomenon at Washington and Lee over 35 years
later. The material in the production was controver-
sial in 1968 because of language and themes of the
musical.

The production was a landmark play. There
are no stars or leading roles. Everybody in the
“tribe” performs in all numbers. The curtain call is
not traditional, everyone comes out at once be-
cause the play belongs to the whole cast.

The director, Jere Hodgin, said that he tried to
set Hair in a way that everyone can experience the

      

.3”

values of the 1960s, even if you did not live through
the decade. According to the director, without Hair,
plays like Jesus Christ Superstar would not have
existed.

Rehearsals have been an interesting process
for everyone involved from the director to the cast.
First, Hair is usually performed with over 30 cast
members. The Washington and Lee cast has 21
members. Second, the cast and crew has had only
one month to prepare. The director and the chore-
ographer, Leslie Owens—Harrington, said that they
were used to doing a production in a month, but
usually with seven hour practices instead of the
three hour practices that they have been holding.
The choreographer pointed out that the content is
different for W&L actors. Not only do they have to

Featuring A
and “YOU Afld /pi’   A

Enhanced CD features exclusivelive
& behind-the-scenes footage A

“Beautiful Ways”

i’ 5'21 55??

patmcgeeband.com
warnerbrosrecords. com

HIE + May 20 |\|0I'lIa in not-nun
’ May 21 Brown's Island inliichmond
May 22 9:30 club in Washington In:  

BREIT T. KIRWAN

ACTING ARis&lirEEDrroR
l<irwanb@wlu.edu

 Nudit in Hi brings cotversy to Lenfest stage

act, but also they have to sing and dance. Jere
Hodgin is a guest director from Roanoke, who has
directed over 200 productions. Hodgin was con-
tacted by the theatre department over a year ago
to direct this production. He accepted even before
knowing what it was going to be.

Hair also brings four other professionals to
Lenfest. Leslie Owens-Harrington will be doing
choreography and Piotr Oleksiak is the musical di-
rector. Dante Murray and Aaron Scott were also
hired to act in the play.

The original production of Hair had a nude
scene during the number “Where do I go?” Ac-
cording to Hodgin, this scene reﬂects characters
asking that when values are discarded and chal-
lenged, where do you go from there? Hodgin said

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

S'rr:vr;N MAa1Nos / THE R1.\'r;—7u\1PI—1I

that we make choices about what we wear, but is
that really who we are? Do you shop at J. Crew just
because other people say it is “cool?” The tribe in
the play feels that we hide behind our clothing,
therefore they take it off.

_ ‘Hodgin said that he explained this to the cast
and said he would let them decide if they want to
take off their clothes. ‘‘I have no idea at this mo-
ment what they are going to do,” said Hodgin. He
went on to say that every night the nudity could be
different. If they feel like taking off their clothes,
they will, but they are not mandated to.

“Hair is a celebration of the new age, the age of
Aquarius,” said Hodgin. It is about an age of hope, risk,
change, and hope for change. It deals with the 1960s
themes of racial equality, sexual freedom, and peace.

Send your engagement
announcements to

phi@w|u.edu .

You want to go
to medical school,
you have your B.A.,
but the only
science course

- you’ve taken

has been

Physics for Poets.

We have
a program
for you.

Columbia University’s
Postbaccalaureate
Premedical Program is
America’s oldest and best.

1
c
U)
H
u-
a»
h
O
9’.
as
C
'1
o
N
H
o
'u
1
o
3
(D
9:
fl
“_’
11
1
o
an
'1
SD
3

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

gspremed@columbia.edu
www.columbia.edu/cu/gs/postbacc

COLUMBIA

 

School of General Studies

do the American iieai: ‘

so dxiﬂks I

 

 

PAGE 6

THE

THE R1N<;;«-mi PHI

AST WORD  

BREITT. KIRWAN

ACI’lNGARlS&LlFEEDl’IOR
k1rwznb@wlucdu

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

Outdoors truly makes W&L a special place

W&L feels like home to me, but not neces-
sarily because of the W&L lifestyle. I sometimes
wonder how much I’m suited towards the W&L
lifestyle (mind you, I’ m referring to the stereotypi-
cal “W&L lifestyle”). I don’t consider myself all

that fratty.

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD Naturallya after
four years,

TIM SMITH ‘O4 W&L has had
asigniﬁcantef-

, feet on me, as the “Frat Lord’s Mom” suggested in

her delightful article. For the most part, I feel like
I’m from a different demographic than the majority
of my fellow students. Yet, like I said at first, W&L
still feels like home.

I come from a few miles outside of Charles
Town, West Virginia, on six acres of land situated
in the shadow of the Blue Ridge and a mile from the
Shenandoah River. That’s been my home since I
was ten years old, when the Smiths moved away
from the NOVA suburb of Fairfax. And though grow-
ing up in Fairfax might have been a little more excit-
ing, I truly enjoyed the slower-paced life that West
Virginia had to offer.

Now, as I’m facing graduation in a little
less than three weeks, I realize quickly how W&L
has become my second home. Only 140 miles away
from my real home, the W&L scenery is not all that
different. There is still the waH of mountains to-
wards the east. Instead of the Shenandoah, W&L
has the Maury, with the more magniﬁcent James
River several miles away. And while there’s not so
much different from my home in West Virginia, the
scenery is still spectacular.

This brings me to my point ——- the “world
of W&L” can be so consuming that, a lot of times,
we forget about the world around W&L. And with
a few weeks of Spring Term left, you should do all
you can to experience what the area has to offer.

PARTAAAY! Buffalo Creek Music Festival, is tbe event of Spring Term, as these two 1997 revelers demonsaate.

Buffalo Creek is a good start. Sure, to
some, it’s only another W&L party. But I think
there’s a rather large difference between a frat
house basement and the open-air of Zollman’s.
When it looked like Buffalo Creek was extinct, I
wasn't worried about losing the music or losing a
party —I was disappointed about losing that open-
air atmosphere which makes that festival so differ-
ent. Thankfully, Buffalo Creek has been saved, and
we’ll all have to opportunity to experience its atmo-
sphere one more time.

Goshen is so underrated. If you’ve been a
W&L student for more than a year and haven’t
seen the world past the Horse Center, well, then
you're just silly. The drive is amazing (and ﬁm with
a manual transmission), and Goshen Pass itself is
simply stunning. You can swim. You can nap. You

Who needs summer Vacation when you’rea W&L student?

In schools across the
country, students are counting
the days left in May. This mom-
ing, millions of kids woke up

But let’s face it, would I
rather work 40 hours a week, or
write a few three page papers in
between frat parties? I am go-

and ran to their Anna ing back to Idaho to a curfew!
Koumikova cal- For the past
endars and put QT”: nine months,
an “X” through POTATOMAN as long as I
today’s date. It MARsHALL RULE‘()7 was home in

will undoubt-
edly be the best
part of their day. It means that
they are one day closer to sum-
mer. But I am not running to my
Anna Kournakova calendar
(yes I have one, and no, I don’t
care that she sucks at tennis).
In fact, I have hidden my calen-
dar and anything else in my
room that reminds me of how
close summer really is. I don’t
want to be reminded that in just
over two short weeks, I have to
go home.

Don't get me wrong, I
want to see my family. Even

though I talk to my mom five

times a day on the phone
(sadly, not an exaggeration), I
miss her. I want to see mydog,
my friends, and even my
brother. I am looking forward
to not having a roommate, not
writing papers, and not hav-
ing to wake up early for class
(not like I go to class now, but
let’s pretend).

time fordinner
the next day
and a shower before I go back
out, I was fine. In three weeks,
I will have to beg to stay out
past one. And that is only if my
mom realizes that I have been
on my own for a year and am
capable of taking care of my-
self.

For the next’ three
months, I will not be covered
in sweat in some frat basement
to listen to some horrible over-
the-hill cover band. I won’t be
able to sit in the commons on
a Tuesday night, pretending
to do homework, but really
just talking to anyone who
walks by. For the next three
months, I won’t be able to en-
joy my walk to Robinson Hall
through the ‘columns of the
Colonnade, wondering what I
did so right to get to spend
four years here.

Finally a frat boy, I won’t
be able to hang out at the house

all afternoon, without a care in
the world. For the next three
months, playing poker with the
guys just isn’t going to be the
same. If I get bored, I won’t be
able to just walk downstairs to
play some NCAA dynasty with
my friends. Dinner will be with
the family, and no longer with
my brothers.

It will no longer be cool
to ﬂip my collar up and wear
salmon color shorts. The infa-
mous “frat tuck” will be
laughed at, and so will my pink
ties’. No one will know who
Monticello Road is, and no
one will want to play Beirut.
However, I might be able to
talk them into playing what
they call beer pong. No more
Waffle House at three in the
morning. No Goshen.

For the next three
months, I can’t complain about
the EC. I can’t sleep-in until
noon, and stay up until three.
Two orders of Domino's cinna-
sticks will no longer be consid-
ered a meal. I won’t see any
cockroaches for three months.
No more intramurals. No more
streaking the Colonnade and
the old folk’s home. The gym is
no longer a thirty second walk
from my room, and neither are

can reﬂect. And for you more motivated students,
it’s also a great place to study. Don’t miss it.

Most W&L students know about Goshen
and Buffalo Creek, but there are tons of other places
in the Rockbridge area that should not be neglected.
First, there’s House Mountain. On a great day, its
sheer presence makes Lexington feel a tiny bit more
special (please pardon the environmental sappi-
ness). Furthermore, the mountain is not just for
looking; The House Mountain hike is stupendous,
just ask someone who’s done it.

For you less outdoors-inclined people,
there’s the Parkway. The Blue Ridge Parkway is
breathtaking. First off, it’s a sweet drive, so you
can enjoy it without even leaving yotu SUV. But
the Parkway has other valuable uses as well. For
you fellas, here’s a hint: the Parkway at sunset with

walks with Professor Porter. No
more southern accents.

For the next three
months, I will not be able to do
any of these things. Summer is
coming at the worst possible
time. Since September, every
week has been a little better
than the week before. Each
week has been the best of my
life, until the next week comes
and it’s even better. Pledgeship
has brought me closer to my
brothers and friends than I
have been all year long. I have
life under control, and every-
thing going my way, and now I
have to leave all that?

I’m going to have fun at
home. I have missed the Guns
and Roses Concerts. I have
missed cargo shorts. I have
missed my beloved car. Most
of all I have missed not hav-
ing to deal with humidity (I
know, Lex humidity is not half
as bad as, say, Houston’s, but
I’m a wimp, what can I say?).
But I sure am going to miss
the General life.

a significant “passenger” is worth the price of gas.
It comes highly recommended.

Then there’s another great and more ex-
citing activity which I enjoyed this past weekend,
bridge-jumping on the James. Not only can you
enjoy another great car ride over the mountains on
501, but you get amusement park quality excite-
ment without cost. Seriously, what’s more fun than
jumping 30 feet off a bridge into a river? Not much.
I went quarry jumping about 10 times this past sum-
mer, so this pastime is particularly close to my heart.
E-mail me if you want to go. -

The truth is W&L offers so much more
than what it might seem. So many times, I’ve heard
complaints that Lexington is boring, that there’s
nothing to do. Some might even suggest that the
reason Greek life is so crucial here is that we’d all
die of boredom without it. To me, that’s only half-
true. I love fraternities, tried-and-true, but thank-
fully I’ve also had the opportunity to experience
all these other things, which I’ve grown to love as
well.

At home, I’ve worked as a raft guide. I’ve
lived ﬁve summers on the Shenandoah. I’ve ca-
noed the Antietam Creek ump-teen times. I’ve
climbed Maryland Heights and searched through
Harpers Ferry over and over again. I’ve gone cav-
ing. I’ve gone hiking. And I’ve gone quarry jump-
ing too. I’ve enjoyed Jefferson County, WV, even
though it’s probably not the most exciting place
on earth.

I’ve enjoyed W&L and the Lexington just
as much. That’s why I love it here. That’s why I
hope to stay here. And that’s why I encourage you
all to get out there and experience these things for
yourself. While the W&L lifestyle might be good
by itself, there are so many things around W&L
which I guarantee will make you love this school
even more.

So what am I going to do
for the next three months? I am
going to get up early every

PHOTO COURTESY 4/.jt>orterr.rom

ACE. The beautiful Miss Kournikova is a daily reminder of life in Lex.

morning and run to my Anna
Kournakova calendar and
write an “X” through that
day’s date. And that will be the

best part of my day, because I
will know that I am one day
closer to being back here in
Lexington.

Look at the bright side;
at least I’m not graduating, be-
cause that is the only thing that
scares me more than summer.

hall crawls. No more late night

quicklyts

Q The Book Club is awesome! Mondays, 7:00
p.m., Commons 216!

Q Screw Johnny Depp. George Auerbach is the
sexiest man alive.

Q This place isn’t really that southern. There
are just so many Yankees here who think it is.
Those of us from the South think this place is pretty
northern.

Q What happened to parties every night?
Spring Term is pretty dissapointing.

Q Courtney Perry is bailed from my frat house,
unless...

Q Gulotta stayed out past his bedtime last
weekend! Luckily, he called his mom every hour
and always made sure he was holding someone’s
hand before he crossed the street. He wants to be
a ﬁreman when he grows up. Ah, kids.

Q Homing on frat life: “Of course I own seer-
sucker pants. I’m a frat boy!”

Q I love it when I exit the bathroom naked, hop-
ing nobody is around, only to stumble into the
security guard scanning the checkpoint in our
house at 2:30 in the morning.

(I) Aside from interesting subject matter, An
gels and Demons lacks any redeeming qualities.
You may as well read Ihe Da Vmci Code twice.

(I) KA should shoulder a good deal of blame for
having inadequate sober rides for the party last
Thursday at Beans Bottom.

Q You probably won’t get a sober ride from
stepping into the path of an oncoming car. You

~ might, however, get killed.

Q Someone looked hot in his purple and pink
bathing suit out at Goshen.

Q Way to destroy Messiah, Lax team.

Q Life would be perfect if I could roll every-
where.

Q Students at Liberty aren’t allowed to dance,
so why is the school bringing in a band?

Q It’s okay to totally mock someone if you
whisper.

Q Nothing else matters if you have a great rack.

(I) Attention future investment bankers: Today
in 1792, the New York Stock Exchange was formed.

(I) Everyone should read the new sorority expose
Pledged by Alexandra Robbins.

Q Lifetime movies rock!
Q Who’s hotter—- Mary-Kate or Ashley?

Q Did you know? The 2001 riots around a G8
summit in Genoa led to a 29% decline in births in
the city.

Q Ifyou’re in a war, instead of throwing a hand
grenade at the enemy, throw one of those small
pumpkins. Maybe it’ll make everyone think how
stupid war is, and then while they are thinking, you
can throw a real grenade at them.

Q Could the elevator in the University Com-
mons be any slower?

Q I don’t get this whole Friends and Frasier
thing. Nobody cried when Walker, Texas Ranger

went off the air.

Q I pity the fool that don’t like T.

Q The hardest part about Buffalo Creek is de-
ciding what to burn next.

Q Your guilty conscience may move you to vote
Democratic, but deep down you long for a cold-
hearted Republican to lower taxes, brutalize crimi-
nals, and rule you like a king.

Q It takes approximately 237.2 licks to get to
the center of a Tootsie Roll pop. Thanks ECONI
MGMT 203.

Q Playing the drums is a lot‘ like making love,
it’s best if you don’t look down.

Q On this day in 1979, Bob Ricca joined the
Colonnade Club. It took him only 56 minutes be-
cause he had a different girl waiting for him in each
of the ﬁve buildings.

Q Wahoo! Go, Tribe, go! That’s right, the Cleve-
land Indians’ bullpen has saved three games in a
row.

Q Keith Urban’s “You’ll Think of Me,” is num-
ber one on Thunder Country this week.

Q Submit your anonymous Quick Hits and tales
of Buffalo Creek foolishness and tribulations to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

 

 
 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE   NG-TUM

PHI

The rtrrdem‘ wire of Worizirgror and Lee Umi/errzh Time 7897 .

HIPPIES ON OUR CAMPUS?!

CULTURE FOR THE MASSES. Hair opened to rave reviews last Friday evening. With a
cast of 21, primarily students, and a slew of behind—the—scenes help, Hair dazzled
the audience with hippie costumes, outstanding singing, well-choreographed dancing
and a groovy set. Rumor has it that the show is not sold out.

see page 5 for more photos and a P/.zz' review.

   
    

STEVEN MARINos / THE RING-TUM PHI

C-School majors go hi-tech with Internet class

BY KAELA HARMON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

For sophomores majoring in the C-
School, life just got a little bit more techni-
cal.

As of next fall (fall 2004), they will be
required to take Washington and Lee’s very
first completely online course.

It is an information technology
course and will be labeled Interdepartmen-

tal 201—Information Technology Literacy,

(IT Literacy). The course is designed to
ensure that all C-School graduates can ef-
fectively use Windows, Excel, Word,
Power Point, and the various factions of
the W&L network, including GroupWise
and web browsing.

Professor Ballenger of the Manage-
ment department said that Williams school
began planning for this course in the win-
ter of 2002. In November of 2002, the C-
School faculty approved the plan to de-

velop the course and the designing pro-

' cess began during the winter term of 2003.

According to Professor Ballenger, the
development process took place through-
out the majority of last summer and in-
volved extensive help from several of the
VV1lliams School majors.

The course was then test piloted in
last term with students from Professor Wil-
liam King’s Accounting 202 class. Accord-
ing to Professor Ballenger, the pilot—test

provided those working on the project with

“significant insight into how students used
the course and problems they were having
with it.”

As a result of the testing, several
changes will be made to the course
throughout the summer to make sure that
everything is in place for the fall. The C-
School also invested in a new high—end
server to help run the class.

In the fall, students enrolled in Eco-
nomics 101/ 102, Accounting 201/202, Man-

agement/Economics 201/203 and Politics
201 will be invited to take the course. It
will be a pass/fail course, and an excep-
tion to the normal rules, so that students
enrolled in the class can take on other
class pass/fail as well.

In order to pass the class, students
will have to take an exam for each of the
five areas of study and receive a 70 or
higher on each. Students will then receive
credit for the class at the end of the term.

Current sophomores will be invited
totake the course in the upcoming fall term,
and must complete the course during that
time. After that point, it will be expected
that all rising juniors have successfully
finished the course as C-School faculty
will be using the skills learned in their
classes.

For right now, this is the only to-
tally online course available at W&L, but
if it is successful, there may be several to
come in its wake‘.

(WT

VOLUME CVIII, No.5

MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

Board approves
campus changes

When students return to
campus next fall, they will ﬁnd that
some changes have been made.
These alterations affect every part
of our campus life from academ-
ics, to athletics, to parking. The
Board of Trustees
approved all of
these projects.

Art and mu-
sic will continue to
dominate the major changes to
campus. “When students arrive,
there will be a big hole in the
ground by Lenfest,” said Joe
Grasso, Vice President for Adrnin—
istration. The school will begin
excavating for the new art and
music building beginning June 1.

The Mason New Room, in
the old Dean of Students ofﬁce in
Payne Hall, will be completed this
summer. It will be a reception and
meeting area. The entire project
was funded by a donor.

Five new “smart” class-
rooms will be added to the Col-
lege. One classroom, Robinson 7,
is completely funded by a donor
as well.

A study was recently com-
pleted by an architecture ﬁrm in
Charlottesville on Dupont Hall and
the Co—op. The study was a cost
beneﬁt analysis of the two build-

 

ings to see if the school should
retain them or build new buildings
on their sites. The Board heard
the results of this study and will
not make a decision until the fall
meeting at the earliest.

Wi 1 s o n

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS Field will re-
CHRIS LAUDERMAN ‘O6

ceive renova-
tions over the
summer. The
drainage system of the ﬁeld will
be replaced and the track will be
resurfaced. Lower Alumni Field,
a practice ﬁeld, will also receive
revisions. Both of these projects
were funded by private donors.

Davis Dorm will be receiv-
ing new paint, an up-to—date ﬁre
system with sprinklers, new fur-
niture, and bathroom renovations.
Grasso said he would like to have
student input on color choices for
the dorms. The Student Health
Center in the basement of Gilliam
Dorm will be overhauled for the
first time in 50 years.

In June, the school will be
getting the results of a parking
study. Students have seen a loss
of parking because of the new art
and music building. When we
come back in the fall, we could see
new parking regulations as well
as new parking lots.

   

STEvENiMARINos / THE RING—'['UM HI

MEETIN’ TIME. Rector Phil Norwood looks on as a new Board member
is sworn in at this past weekend’s meeting in Lexington.

50/ 50 gender split

Class of 2008 shows best numbers ever,

BY KAELA HARMON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

In the past several years, Washington and Lee has seen a
growing trend in the incoming class. Every year, the freshmen
class is academically stronger and more diverse than the class
before it. This year, that pattern continues.

Assistant Director of Admissions and Coordinator of Mi-
nority Recruitment, Erin Hutchinson said that this year W&L saw
the largest applicant pool ever, with more than 3600 students ap-
plying. Of that number, about 458 are expected to return to repre-
sent the class of 2008.

Most of the students who will be coming in the fall have
already confirmed, and the admissions department is excited about
what they will bring to the campus.

According to Hutchinson, the numbers for those who have
already confirmed are pretty impressive. The gender split is about

50/50 and more than 40 states and 12 countries are represented.
There are around _60 students of color, with Asian Americans be-
ing the most largely represented group of minorities.

Academically speaking, at this point, the class of 2008 can
boast of having 28 Valedictorians or salutatori-
ans, and 273 members of the National Honor So-
ciety. The average SAT scores for admitted stu-
dents is 701 verbal and 698 math.

This group will also have something to
bring to the athletics department. About 169 of
them were varsity captains and several sports
teams on campus are already looking to see what this group will
bring to the table.

Volleyball coach, Bryan Snyder, has been doing his part in
bringing several women to the campus who he feels will make a
strong contribution to his team, as well as the campus as a whole.
The average SAT for his recruits is 1300, and 2 of the women have

The average SAT scores for
admitted students is 701
verbal and 698 math

Seniors look forward to bright futures

Career Services oﬁers a plethora of helpful hints and resources for the job search

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

As graduation looms, seniors can be found
celebrating job offers, preparing for graduate
school, or continuing the job search process.

It is still too early to have data involving
senior’s future plans, but Beverly Lorig, Director
of Career Services, indicated that the job market
looks brighter than recent years.

“This year the increase in hiring nationally
is 12.5%,” said Lorig.

According to the National Association of
Colleges and Employers, the top jobs for 2003-04
graduates, in terms of number of offers reported,
were management trainee, private accountant, and
sales.

Lorig emphasized the importance to start-
ing the job search early and using the resources
career services has to offer.

She said that often seniors shift their focus
to relaxation during spring tenn, and this often
keeps them from recognizing the importance of
the job search at a critical time.

She encouraged seniors to set up a time
to meet with Career Services before they gradu-

Career Services staff can help with prac-
tice interview, alumni connections, and mar-
keting the W&L experience.

Alumni resources at W&L are an ex-
tremely important part of the job search, there-
fore giving W&L students an extra edge in the
job search process.

“Most students will find jobs through
networking or referrals,” said Lorig.

About 21 to 27 percent of seniors usu-
ally plan to pursue graduate studies in the fall.
At W&L these numbers tend to remain fairly
consistent, despite changes in the job market.

“I’m going to law school next year at the
University of Arkansas. After that I plan on
going into criminal prosecution,” said senior
Barrett Nixon.

Lorig also emphasized that seniors
should inform Career Services once they have
accepted a job offer. “We love to celebrate their
success.”

 

been recognized as All American players. He said that he believes
that these women will “absolutely” add to the competitive edge
of his team, and be well—rounded members of the W&L commu-
nity.

The men’s basketball team is also looking
to have members of the incoming class add to
the strength of the campus as a whole and the
team in general. The average SAT for his re-
cruits is 1360, and several of them lead their high
school teams to championship competitions.

Overall, the class of 2008 is expected to
bring a lot to campus. Over 360 have served in leadership positions
in major organizations or in some other extracurricular activity.

Hutchinson did point out that over the summer the compo-
sition of the class could change in a variety of ways, but she said
that she is confident that this class is continuing the trend of
strengths.

Rhodes, Conner win P/92' Awards

Mock Convention is the largest student undertaking at
Washington and Lee. It has huge budget, encompasses dozens
of events over three terms and two academic years and involves
all but few students.
ate. Noah Rhodes, who served as the convention’s general chair-
man, gave up a second major in English to orchestrate a cast of
thousands into W&L’s greatest academic event, greatest party
and greatest public relations success.

Rhodes took his job with Mock Con in Spring 2002 and will
join Wachovia investment banking in Charlotte this summer.

For his leadership of Mock Convention, Noah Rhodes is
our choice for the 2004 Ring-tum Phi Award.

RHODES

Already lauded in our pages as one of the “must—have” Pro-
fessors, Marc Conner of the English Department is our choice for
the faculty’s 2004 Ring—tum Phi Award.

Student’s regularly gush about the intersting discussions held
in Conner’s classes. Talk to any former student and it is clear that
Conner cares about his students and is passionate about the sub-
ject matter he teaches.

Phi staff writer Courtney Perry praised Conner’s, “extensive

I knowledge of subject and enthusiasm for material.” As a former stu-
dent of Conner’s, Perry also said that, “he is very fair and genuinely
interested in his students.”

We’re also honoring Conner for his contributions to main-
taining the Spring Term Calendar.

 

 

  

    

, .-_tlr?WtB’€« is rgreuﬁm LJBFIARY
wr\ar+rr~w  in A LEE unnawsrrv
-‘~P“xP.<t

VA  '
MAY 2 5 2004

  

_ PAGE 2

S‘irii‘i3iiED1ToR1AL

The Early-Fielding Memorial
Building is being neglected. One could
argue, “Phi staff, the Business Office
was moved into the building,” but we
would reply, “Who actually wants to go
to the Business Office?”

Don’t get us wrong, we are very
happy with the Elrod Commons that re-
placed Early-Fielding, but the school
also lost some special rooms that are
not being used on a regular basis.

GHQ: The General’s Headquar-
ters, while not the best food, had a great
atmosphere. Students had a restaurant
where servers actually waited on them.
Java at the GHQ, held every Monday
night, allowed students to have coffee
in a coffee house atmosphere with local
bands.

Fairfax Lounge: The Fairfax
Lounge used to be like the Women’s
Resource Room or the Outing Club
Room. Organizations used to use the
room for meetings, but the only reason
anyone on the Phi staff has entered that
room this year is to get a ﬂu shot.

Evans Hall: Evans is one of the
most beautiful buildings on our campus.
Freshman used to eat their meals ev-
eryday in a building built to hold Fancy _
Dress with chandeliers and columns.
Evans now is used for the occasional
wedding reception. Evans did however
have a shining moment this year when it
held the Mock Convention Presidential
Gala.

We have some suggestions. First,
the GHQ should become a restaurant
again. Even if W&L does not want to
run it, they could lease it to a restaurant
owner. Second, professors and presi-
dents of organizations should start hold-
ing meetings in Fairfax again. Lastly, the

school should bring more formal events
to Evans. Almost everyone at W&L
holds our traditions sacred. Early-Field-
ing is one tradition that faded away and
no one noticed.

' A .31  G“r.iUl“v‘i PHI

CAIEYANBEBON

OP1N1oNsEB1'1oR
andersonc@wlu.edu

i3iN1oNs  

Pro-War or an t1'- War, stand against the draft

MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

PHOTO (JOURTESY or mindrpring. tom

MANPOWER SHORTAGE? This barracks lies empty. A lot of people say they support the troops, but how many (including our young women) are willing to be troops?

It is indisputable that there are a few words
in the English language that people will do any-
thing to avoid. “Draft” may very well be one of
them. It is wholly painless to speak the words
that communicate the notion that it is each
person’s duty to serve his or her country faith-
fully, even if this means they have to drop ev-
erything to fight, but actually
carrying this out is clearly a 9
completely different story. ,_

Currently, there is pend-
ing legislatibn, twin bills S 89
and HR 163, in the House of Representatives and
the Senate, each having the goal of providing
“for the common defense by requiring that all
young persons in the United States, including

 

women, perform a period of military service or a9

period of civilian service in furtherance of the
national defense and homeland security, and for
other purposes.” The two bills state that “it is
the obligation of every U.S. citizen, and every
other person residing in the United States...to

_ A FRESH PERSPECTIVE
‘ _ BIBEKA SHRESTHA ‘0]__

perform a two—year period of national service,
unless exempted.”

The bills also aim to amend “the Military
Selective Service Act to authorize the military
registration of females” in addition to males be-
tween the ages of l8 and 26. In addition, the
legislation would not exempt college students
from the draft. If these bills are
passed, it would be a historic
change, as both men and women
would be equally liable for mili-
tary service, not to mention the
fact that it would create an even bigger pool of
potential draftees.

Regardless of how you feel about the wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is a universally dread-
ful thought that one day, you or your loved ones
might be selected to leave the shelter of home to
join the armed forces in foreign terrain. With con-
tinuing conﬂict in Iraq notwithstanding, Presi-
dent Bush’s declaration of the end of the war
last year and other countries pulling their troops

out, the need for more troops is quite evident. It
is certainly unlikely that other countries will vol-
unteer their armed forces, so a draft may be more
likely than we think. The Pentagon has already
begun a public campaign to fill over ten thou-
sand draft board positions and over eleven thou-
sand appeals board positions in the nation.

The only citizens who would qualify for
exemptions from the draft would be those who
are physically disabled or conscientious objec-
tors, who are defined as being “opposed to serv-
ing in the armed forces and/ or bearing arms on
the grounds of moral or religious principles.” If
one is politically opposed to the war, he or she
would not be considered a conscientious objec-
tor. This means that even if you never supported
the war in Iraq, you could be forced to fight. The
issue of the draft is one that touches us all as
the youth of America, and we must be more ac-
tive in following the progress of these two bills
because if we do not, we might one day come to
regret it.

(I

   

te of the Week
5 ))

“The matches may light upon impact.”

~Roanoke Channel 10 News, advising
of a recall put into effect last night.

'.%\E{l.\’F;l‘<7'E{ .v‘.r-3.) LEE l,’.~zn'Lr.s1';\'

G—TUM PHI

Editor in Chief Erin E. Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauderman
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Acting Life Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Photography Editor Corbin Blackford
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Copy Editors Vanessa Arness
Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis
Business Managers Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Circulation Director Rob Rain
Asst. Circulation Dir Leggett Kitchin
Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb

  

Production Assistants

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060

Fax: (540) 458-4059

Email: phi@wlu.edu

Subscription rate $40

nating by geographic birthplace.”
IFC- l
resignation of VP. That didn’t look good, guys.

“new member education” instead of hazing.

LexPo— 1‘ See above.

maybe some better pizza?

someone who works there who is under 60.

Wonkafest.

the main event?
name on cover.

Universe? Wait for next year.

Spring Term Debate— T Board elects to keep it, and with future stu-
dents taking one Spring Term out of four off, everyone will be happy.

EC— t-* A good start at responding to student demands for account-
ability, but there are still a lot of hard questions that need up front answering.

Honor System-4-+ Lots of changes coming, most likely, but odds are
that it won’t get gutted and turned into a rulebook like UVA’s.

Frats— .1. Next year- “SAE receives one year suspension for discrin1i—

VMIs— ‘*9 They seem less friendly, but hey, what did you expect?
Dining Services- 1‘ Big improvements in Marketplace. Next year- aches.

Commons-3' Students (including me) now realizing it was worth the
money. But hey, doesn’t the old co-op look awfully lonely these days?

Alumni- 1‘ Take greater role in on—campus events, and during 2004
Alumni Weekend, prove as never before that they are still W&Lers at heart.

Diversity Initiatives— T Lots of new orgs, as well as progress by GSA
and MSA. Only downside— wasn’t trying to practically behead inadvertent
Nazi Armband guy going a little too far?

W&L Sp0rts—4-+ Another “so close” year. We’re looking forward to
2005, especially women’s V-ball and men’s lax.

Life outside W&L- i Blood, devastation, death, war, and horror.

Wal-Mart— e-—r Remains only place where you can buy everything
you’ll need at W&L while cows graze across the street, but still lacking-

FD— T Rebounds from somewhat mediocre 2002-03 with fun-packed

M0ckCon- 4-» Solid event marred by travesty of a parade. Also— is it
just me, or should James Carville have been a secondary speaker rather than

Calyx— 7 No more flaming Tridents; nor misspelled words in W&L’s

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what felt, and what stayed about the same this year at W&L.

S.A.B.- 4-+ Moves away from Jam Bands, but Karl Denson’s Tiny
E-mail Andersonc@wlu.edu with comments/questions

S.A.0.- ? Surprising success of new organization shows that there
are things to do on this campus that do not require a BAC higher than .10.

Administration-4-9 Good job on Spring Term, construction projects,
and solid year from new cast of Deans, but a few students still fear
Swarthmoriﬁcation and still lack confidence in some Admins.

Trident-4——> Center of debate over student government, but will they
have the cash to keep it up next year? Plus, back page woes- no mo’
Denbow, and Xak is taking his genius abroad. We hardly knew ye, Mr.
Mysterious quiet over Rush date controversy and related Bausch.
- Traveller- T Like Adrian Beltre, the breakthrough year everyone’s
Class of 2007- T Ate at Commons instead of D-Hall, went through been looking for. Great job, Traveller people.

Faculty-}‘ For every professor here who’s simply average, there are

Parking- 3. New Art+Music building is good, but takes away yet five who are excellent.
another parking lot. Next year, Gaines Hall residents to be issued bicycles.

T0wnies— T Is it just me, or do they seem downright friendly recently?

Newcomb Hall- J. No qualms with the departments that call Newcomb
their home, but good lord, what IS that smell?

Weather- .1. Less snow this year, but also maybe a week’s worth of
warm, sunny days during the whole school year. My Californian heart

Better-
15%

Phi Quick Poll

Do YOU THINK THAT W&L. OVER THE LAST YEAR, HAS BECOME A BETTER PLACE, A WORSE PLACE, OR

HAS REMAINED ABOUT THE SAME?

‘Worse-
21%

48 students polled, 25 men, 23 women. Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Same-
65%

‘*7

 

 

PAGE 3

THE RiNc~niMPn1

Q\iE'x’A\11)ntsoN

OPINIONSEDHOR ’

andersonc@wlu.edu

PINIONS

MONDAY, MAYCZT4, 2004

Congress needs more Republicans like Warnepr

John Warner has been publicly
upbraided by Republicans in Congress
for continuing to call people to testify in
the prisoner abuse scandal. He has a
rather distinguished record. Mr. Warner
is a longtime Virginia Senator, Chairman
of the Armed Services Committee, a vet-
eran of two wars, and a Washington and
Lee graduate. He is a Repub-

lem go away as quickly as possible. A full,
transparent investigation — precisely
what the Senate Armed Services Commit-
tee is doing — is exactly what they don’t
want.

These sort of people in Congress
are nothing more than pathetic party
hacks. I was quite right when I said at

Mock Convention that

lican. Republican Represen— the problem with Con-
tatives have claimed that the OUTINLEFT FIELD gress is that there aren’t
Armed Services Committee’s GABE CHAPMAN ‘06 more W&L Republicans

hearings distract from our ef-
forts in Iraq and undermine those
in combat. They have implied that con-
ducting these hearings is unpatriotic.
Senator Inhofe of Oklahoma had the au-
dacity to claim that he was “outraged by
the outrage.” He was amazed that people
would be so concerned about the treat-
ment of criminals and those endangering
our troops. Senator Inhofe is evidently
unaware that most of the prisoners at Abu
Ghraib are not guilty of any crimes.
Congressional Republicans have
tried to bully and intimidate the Senate
Armed Services Committee because they
don’t want attention brought to the
prison scandal. They are using the most
insidious tactic, which is to claim that a
full investigation into misconduct under-
mines our legitimate actions. Their aim
is transparently obvious — to protect the
Bush Administration and to minimize the
public outcry over the abuse scandal.
Their best solution is to make the prob-

Roll with the

in Congress. Senator
Warner is not a party
hack, and it’s evident that his W&L edu-
cation makes him special. He recognizes
that there are bigger concerns here than
the embarrassment of the Bush Adminis-
tration. It is imperative that our country
conducts full and transparent investiga-
tions. We cannot claim to carry the torch
of free society when we abuse and then
cover up, or pretend like Senator Inhofe
that it simply doesn’t matter. These Re-
publican hacks don’t recognize that that
is what truly undermines our effort in Iraq.
-The Geneva Convention, with re-
spect to the treatment ofprisoners taken
in Iraq
General Lee, of course, once said
that the true mark of an honorable gentle-
man is the “forebearing use of power,”
You’ve seen the pictures. The treatment
in Abu Ghraib is precisely the opposite.
In fact, the Geneva Convention essen-
tially tried to codify the forebearing use

of power; the way enemy combatants
ought to be treated in light of their unde-
niable status as persons, just like our-
selves. Our actions at Abu Ghraib were
inhuman. President Bush signed a secret
executive order designed specifically to
skirt the rules of war. I leave it to you to
decide how this accords with‘General
Lee’s definition of honor.

I said, “our actions.” Indeed they
are. We, as a nation and a people, are in
Iraq. The idea of the United States is be-
ing put to the test. Do we want secret ex-
ecutive orders, maltreatment, and then
hush-hush operations? Is this the patri-
otic, virtuous republic that we believe in?

Speaker of the House Dennis
Hastert huffed and puffed at John McCain
recently. McCain has argued against an-
other round of tax cuts because he wants
to promote the idea of shared, universal
sacrifice in the cause ofjust war and lib-
eration. Hastert roared at the Vietnam vet-
eran, “Senator McCain ought to go to
Bethesda'(hospital) and see that there is
sacrifice in this country. That’s not the
point, Hastert. McCain wants some sacri-
fice to be borne by all Americans, not just
the people in our military. The idea of the
virtuous democratic republic demands
that all citizens make sacrifices in just
causes.

There are two types of politicians.
There are the John Warners and John
McCains, and there are the other guys.
The party hacks. The guys who will prom-

  

PHOTO COURTESY ()1; urII1edirir1e.i‘oI2/

REAL supponr FOR THE moors. S e n a tor Warner

knows what’s really at stake in Iraq, and refuses to ..

bow down to party dogma for the sake of sacriﬁcing
principle. '

ise a free lunch. They’ll cut taxes and pre-
tend to improve education and scare you
and then start wars, knowing they can't
pay for it all. And so they’ll run deficits.
Some of them are Republicans, some of
them are Democrats. But I fervently hope
that none of us want to be Dennis Hastert
or Inhofe or, indeed, George Bush. We are
students of Washington and Lee. We
don’t make promises we know we can’t
keep, because that’s lying. We don’t
abuse people who are at our mercy. We
are all students of General Lee.

punches- change inevitable at University

Afew weeks ago in the Health Center, a nurse was at a loss how
to explain to a freshman how to get to the Counseling Center. Words like
“old d—hall,” “GHQ,” and “University Center” were failing to make a
connection. I finally came up with “above the Registrar’s Office” and he
understood. This conversation got me to thinking about how much has
changed at Washington and Lee in
the 2 short years that I’ve been here.
I look back on my freshman year sad
about some of the things this year’s
class and future freshmen classes
will miss and glad about the things they don’t have to experience.

One thing that has changed is names. The “d—hall” is now the
“Marketplace,” the “Co—op” is now the “Cafe/Emporium” (although I
saw a new sign today that said something like “Cafe ‘77"). I don’t know
if the old names have been carried on by the freshmen, but I’m sure it’s
only a matter of time before the new names permanently stick. I have
even caught myself calling d—hall the Marketplace before. The Univer-
sity Center has been renamed to avoid confusion with the new Com-
mons. It’s now called the Early-Fielding Building, or something like that.
How bizarre.

Another important thing that has changed is the food. Remem-
ber the GHQ? Of course you do! (Unless you’re a freshman — the

Letter to the Editor

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MOUTEVEIIS ‘O6

General’s Headquarters was a breakfast and lunch place where you
could take abreak firm d—hall food while still using your meal plan) They
had the best chicken ﬁnger and fries deal on campus and it was deli-
cious! The Co—op was another place we could use our meal plans on (we
used to get 3 meals a week at either the GHQ or Co-op. Now we’ve lost
the GHQ and the new Co—Op makes you skip dinner if you want to use
your meal plan! What a rip-off!). I miss how we used to be able to just
grab a hamburger, pizza, or fries and pay. Now we have to get in line and
wait for them to cook it. I also miss the little order forms where we could
customize our sandwiches. Without it being written down properly,
tliere’s more room for error. The “Marketplace” —I could go on and on.
I miss the days of having American food every day and then having a
special international night once a month. Now, it’s the complete oppo-
site! The new d—hall is great for lunch — the grilled sandwich station is a
huge plus — but dirmers are horrible if you don’t like the international
display. We can’t eat pizza and ﬁied food every night!
Ok, I think I’ve dwelled enough on the bad changes, now let’s
talk about the good changes. The new Commons is fabulous! As a
friend said during orientation, “We’re like a real university now!” Last
year there was never really a good place to hang out on campus. Now
we have meetings, events, studying, and socializing all in one central
location. I love the free movies put on by the Commons and the Film

Society (last year the Film Society was off-campus and it took me half the
year to figure out where the movies were being shown). The bookstore
is a major improvement — last year it was so tiny and limited, this year I
can get my textbooks without having to squeeze through crowds and
there is a much larger selection of books and apparel to choose from.
The computer kiosks throughout the building for checking e—mai1 were a
great idea, too.

Another noticeable improvement this year was a lack of explo-
sions and construction waking students up early every morning — al-
though, that may return with the building of the new Arts School. The G-
L, Doremus, Commons quad is a nice upgrade from that eye sore of
cranes, trucks, dirt, fences, and construction workers. All the work on
that area turned out beautifully. I »

I’m interested to see what other changes the future will bring
to this school. IfI had my wish, we would tear down that ugly library.
Whose design was that?! It’s as if someone was thinking, “This campus
is too beautiful, we have to add the ugliest building anyone has ever
seen to even things out.” The library is so gross and out of place here.
After I make my ﬁrst million, l’1l have to start setting aside a fund to build
a more beﬁtting library for our campus. ,

Anyway, change is inevitable. It can be good, it can be bad,
but you just have to try to roll with the punches.

SAC talks about Beta wimmserannetamraternnyms
report detailed several serious inci-

DearEditor, dents as reported directly to that of-

The Beta situation is a most ﬁce including repeated forced con-

unfortunate one.’ There are no win-
ners in it — neither the pledges, the
upperclass students, the House Cor-
poration, the national organization,
nor the University. It has been a long
road to this point. Before the on-set
of the academic year, the University
atIemptedtowoikwithGreekLifepio-
gramstoexamine theirpledgeshippro-
grams and offer programs consistent
with University and national frater-
nity/sorority expectations.
InMarchof2004,theOfﬁceof
the Dean of Students ﬁled a report
with the Inter—Fratemity Council re-
garding direct allegations of hazing

sumptions of concoctions intended
to cause nausea, exposure to the
elements, and the forced consump-
tion of alcohol. The al1—student In-
ter-Fraterriity Council (IFC) Judicial
Board heard the case the following
evening. Beta Theta Pi offered no
defense. The IFC offered a recom-
mendation of suspension of Beta
Theta Pi fratemity and that recom-
mendation was upheld by the Uni-
versity Board of Appeals. Follow-
ing University pmcedme, sucharec—
ommendation went before the Stu-
dentAifairs Committee (SAC).
The SAC found reasonable

6VideI1C6t0 SUPPOIT the n11mCI011S Beta, and they have not been pun-
Vi01ati0I1S Ofthe UniveIsity’s policy ished so severely, so Beta should not
on hazing, and wholeheartedly beeither, ”[heIFCand SAC reviewed
adopted IFC’s recommendations as every otherreport of hazingatW&L

also affirmed by the University
Board of Appeals before it was
heard by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee. The Student Affairs Com-
mittee did not believe the evidence
offered to refute the claims of forced
alcohol consumption. The Student
Aﬁairs Committee concurs with all
other ﬁndings of the Inter-Fraternity
Council with respect to allegations
of hazing.

The SAC would also like to
address some questions that have
arisenthnoughoutthis process. One
concern is that other fraternities haze
in ways as bad as or worse than

this winter. Contrary to what some
think, and even what some have writ-
ten in the student newspaper reports,
there are no reported hazing irici—
dents as egregious as those adrriit—
ted by mernbers of Beta. If anyone
knows the details of other incidents,
thelFCandSAC asksthatthosebe
reported, for these incidents too
should be pursued in accord with
the published guidelines of the Uni-
versity.

The argument that “others are
doing it too, so we should not be
punished for doing it’ ’ is not one that
SAC orthe University gerieially ﬁnds

persuasive. The unfair application
of justice would be a concern, but
as noted above, those who have
investigated all the reported inci-
dents of hazing do not believe that
the penalties handed out have been
uneven. .

Some believe the penalty is
too severe. Again, based on what
the IFC and SAC reviewed, this is
not the case. The infomiation sug-
gests that the penalty levied on Beta
is consistent not only with what the
University has imposed in the past,
but also with what other national
organizations have imposed on
W&L houses who have hazed
pledges.

Washington and Lee Ur1iver—
sity desires to have a healthy and

vibrant Greek community, and the
SAC believes we have the potential
to have the best Greek community in
the nation. However, hazing of any
sort is contradictory to the values of
the University and to the expecta-
tions and guidelines of national ﬁa-
temal organizations — not to mention
an unhealthy environment for our
students. The University takes seri-
ously its commitment to work with
its Greek organizations to provide
pledgeship programs that build on
the strengths of those in fraternities
and sororities rather than the “tear-
ing down” that can occur during haz-
mg.

-The S.A.C.

University Cleaners

7 North Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
463-3622

University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is cleaned
and stored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
cleaning charges apply and are billed to your home
address in July. Storage is free.

It couldn't be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
and pick it up in the fall, clean, pressed, and ready to
wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
summer. Call or stop in today for addlctional
information.

Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding

Celebrate Spring Time
0 Father’s Day '
Brides ~ Graduation
witha

, Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements V
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

 

  

 

JOHNHYIAND
AssrrANrSf>oinsEDr1oR
hylandjb@wluodu

. MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

are  PE-E

PORTS

PAGE 4

Even in NCAA defeat seniors, Generals, shine

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

As they have their entire careers at W&L, the
seniors proved their worth as their careers came to a
close in Salisbury, MD. After a March 13th loss at
F&M left the bewildered Generals squad 2-3, the team
regrouped and used an 11-win rampage — including
the utter domination of the ODAC conference — end-
ing with the ODAC championship and a #7 rank en-
tering the NCAA tournament. This rampage, while
most certainly a team effort, was orchestrated by the
talented and experienced senior class.

One of the most frequently coined phrases in
sports is that defense wins championships, and in
lacrosse the goalie is the heart, the quarterback, of
the defense; therefore it is ﬁtting that my praise of
the senior class begin with co-captain and ODAC
player of the year, Ansel Sanders. VVrth a team that
lost a combined 179 points of offense with the gradu-
ation 'of names like Pope Hackney, Matt Dugan, Bernie
Norton and Tom Burke, the Generals needed a solid
goalie to slow opponents’ offense as they estab-
lished an offense of their own. Sanders responded
with 161 saves and a .599 goals against average that
year. As Salisbury ended the Generals’ season, Sand-
ers notched 18 incredible saves to go along with the
457 others in his career. Ansel truly saved the best
for last: his 18-save performance was the best of his
career.

Moving out from the goal, co-captairi and pre-
season honorable mention all-American defenseman
Lawson Grumbine has been a staple of the Generals’
defense for the past three seasons, earning a number
of All-ODAC awards, Grumbine was the leader of a
defense that over the past three seasons allowed an
average of 5.8 goals a game. Saying that Grumbine
ended his career with 99 groundballs doesn’t com-
pletely reﬂect his role on the team; saying that this
season Grumbine was called upon every single game
to mark the opponents’ best attackman goes a bit
farther in showing his importance to the team.

One story that has gone largely unheralded
this season has been thatof longstick‘ defenseman
Kenny Rasamny. Asked to ﬁll the large void left by
the departure of Matt Connors, Rasarnny would have
a trial-by—ﬁre this season, and came out as one of the
best at his position in all of D-III. Like Grumbine,
Rasamny was asked to go up against the opponents’
best. He developed into one of the best longpole
middies in the nation this season, recording a whop-
ping 77 groundballs.

Known around campus for his dashing good
looks, kind temperament, and dreamy smile, co—cap-

tain Jimmy “hunka” Zunka played alongside Rasarnny
in the defensive midﬁeld this season. Like Rasamny,
Jimmy was called upon to mark the best midﬁelders
every game. Like Brad Pitt in Troy, this “gorgeous”
man crushed and destroyed everyone in his path,
establishing hirnselfas a premier defensive midﬁelder.

Co-captain Dustin Martin was dominant this
season. Finishing his career with 116 points on 90
goals and 26 assists, Dustin was a key to the offense’s
success this season. Frequently called upon — by
yours truly— to simply “do-it-yourself Dustin,” he
responded to the tune of 34 goals — a hat-trick against
Salisbury — and 9 assists this season, despite often
drawing the longpole niiddie.

Running with Dustin on the ﬁrst line midﬁeld
was Mark McLewee. An incredibly athletic midﬁelder
and great dodger, Mark ﬁnishes his career with 58
points. He has been a impact in the midﬁeld over the
entirety of his W&L career. He has played in every
single game over his four years at W&L and has
started 31 out of a possible 32 games since the end of
his sophomore season.

Rounding out the first rriidﬁeld is Roland
“chicks dude” Williams. Using his superior intellect,
Rich would out-tliink the opposition: he would score
with his off-speed change-up shot, lulling goalies
into a false sense of security, then uncork his laser to
blow opponents away. Williams ends his career hav-
ing notched 18 points including ten goals this season.

Moving from midﬁeld to attack is often a difﬁ-
cult transition. When Mike McNamara was essen-
tially moved to attack this season, he experienced
little difﬁculty. He was third on the team in goals with
21 and fourth in points with 33. McNamara ends his
career with 66 points including 41 goals, despite an
injury-hampered junior season.

One of the most notable scorers over the past
four years has been attackman Matt Fink. Players in
whom such a potent mixture of dashing good looks
and raw talent exist are few and far between, but Fink
makes it look easy. This season, Fink tallied 44 points
on 33 goals and 11 assists, despite drawing oppo-
nents’ best defensemen. He has amassed an incred-
ible 142 points with 107 goals. His ranks in the top
ten all-time in goals over his career.

Having been written off by innumerable fans —
not yours truly obviously — after losing 3 out of the
first 5 games, senior leadership crushed any notion
of a losing season with an undefeated ODAC sea-
son sandwiched in a 12- game win streak that ended,
as so many teams’ hopes have this season, in
Salisbury, MD. To be sure, W&L had a great run this
season, and the seniors led the way.

li0'I' Blllllls?
liE'|' EASII!

last chance
End of Year Textbook Buyback

cash ill Vllllf IIIIIIKS

W&l AUTHORIZED
B|lYBllI}|(

2 l0GllTI0llS
nooxsronr run min on TIIE urwu

TIIESIIAY 5/25 thru
TIIESIIAY 6/1

TIMIII 70!! /0] Ilﬂlﬂillﬂ 70!]! 50/100] M’ Sﬂllillﬂ 0101
F0lIIﬂ00IS I0 W81

THANKS, SENIORS. Senior laxers led the team to an ODAC Championship and a run in the NCAAS.

Dean, Taffe highlight awards

W&L SPORTS RELEAsE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Seniors Peter Dean
(Vienna, Va./James Madison) and Kelly Taffe
(Charlottesville, Va./Albemarle) headed the list of
honorees at the annual Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Athletic Awards Ceremony on May 18 at
W&L’s Lee Chapel. Dean was named the Pres
Brown Outstanding Senior Male Athlete, while Taffe
was the female recipient of the award.

Dean was a four-year letterwinner for both
the football and baseball teams, serving as a base-
ball captain during his senior season. In football,
Dean was a three—year starter at quarterback, fm-
ishing his career as the school’s sixth all—tirne lead-
ing passer with 3,469 yards and 19 touchdowns. In
baseball, Dean was a three-tirne First Team All-
ODAC selection and the ODAC Pitcher and Base-
ball Scholar-Atlilete of the Year as a senior. He set
a new ODAC record for career victories in going
29-7 overall, and set new school records for career
ERA (2.20), strikeouts (232), appearances (54) and
innings pitched (290.2). A two-time all-region hon-
oree, he garnered Second Team Verizon Academic
All-America honors following the 2003 season.

Taffe was a four-year letterwinner and two-
year captain for both the ﬁeld hockey and women’s
lacrosse teams. Athree-time All-ODAC selection in
ﬁeld hockey, Taffe set nearly every school scoring
record, including goals and points in a game, sea-
son and career. He career totals stand at 34 goals
and 72 points. In lacrosse, Taffe was also a three-
time All-ODAC pick, including a first team selec-
tion her ﬁnal two seasons. She set new school
records for career goals (179) and points (234) in
leading the Generals to three ODAC Champion-
ships and three NCAA Tournament berths during
her four seasons. T affe was named the W&L Out-
standing Freshman Female Athlete in 2001.

In other major awards handed out at the cer-
emony, senior women’s soccer and basketball

player Heather Coleman (Blackwood, N .J ./T riton
Regional) received the William McHenry Scholar-
Athlete Award. Coleman carries a 4.077 grade-point
average while majoring in economics and politics.
She scored 100 career points as a point guard in
basketball and ranks eighth and ninth all-time in
W&L Soccer armals for career goals (19) and points
(44). She earned CoSIDA Third Team Academic All-
America honors last fall.

Senior Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./
Woodberry Forest) was named the recipient of the
Wink Glasgow Spirit & Sportsmanship Award. A
goalie for the men’s lacrosse team, Sanders is a
four-year letterwinner and two-year captain. A three-
time All-ODAC selection, 2004 ODAC Player of the
Year and 2003 Honorable Mention All-American,
he ranks ﬁfth all-time at W&L with 457 career saves.

Swimmer Michael Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./
Episcopal) was named the Outstanding Freshman
Male and Athlete of the Year, while women’s tennis
player Kristen McClung (Charleston, W.Va./
Charleston Catholic) was named the Outstanding
Freshman Female Athlete of the Year. Ginder earned
Bluegrass Mountain Conference Swimmer of the
Year laurels and All-America honors after setting
school records in the 200 freestyle and 200 medley
relay.

McClung earned First Team All-ODAC hon-
ors and is ranked 10th in the Atlantic South Region
in singles. She ﬁnished the season with an 18-5
record at second singles and a 15-7 mark at second
doubles.

Roger Crocket, Professor of German, was
honored with the R.E. “Chub” Yeakel Memorial
Service Award for his support of Washington and
Lee athletics over the years. Senior Jacob Trotter
received the Lefty Newell Memorial Award for his
contributions to the W&L sports information de-
partment and WLUR, while junior women’s tennis
player Lindsay Hagerrnan received the Richard
Miller Physical Education Scholarship.

You want to go
to medical school,
you have your B.A.,
but the only
science course
you've taken
has been
Physics for Poe ts.

We have
a program
for you.

Columbia University’s
Postbaccalaureate
Premedical Program is
America’s oldest and best.

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

Lu1=:.ISo..Id |‘B3!p8lLl8...ld 31129.: ne|e:>3eq3sod

gspremecl@co1umbia.edu
www.columbia.edu/cu/gs/postbacc

C O L U M B I A
School of General Studies

Lexington Art

Across from the State
Theater: 13 W. Nelson St.
Ph 540-464-8080
Hrs 11 to 5 Tues-Sat

Congratulations Class of 2004!

Memories fade but not
Original & Archival

Register for graduation /

Panoramics & 5x7 to 30x40
B&W / Co|or/ Platinum &

W&L Campus / Downtown /

By local & nationally known

www.lexingtonartgal|ery.com
info@|exingtonartgallery.com

Gallery

Photography

wedding gifts .

Palladium

County Images

photographers

A1

 

gs

THE RINOTOM PHI

PAGE 5

RTS &

Lina

BRETT T. KIRWAN

AcIINcARTs&LIIEEDIrOR
l<irwanb@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

Dirty underwear, low gradesmark freshman ear

As I was packing my bags
to get ready to go home, I
thought about all the things that
I didn’t do in my first year at W
and L. When I first stepped on
campus in Sep-
tember, I had a
list of things
that I wanted to
do in college. I
did some of the
things on my list, but a few will
have to wait until next year.

The first thing I had
planned to do was to be Vale-
dictorian, or at least have some
ridiculously high GPA. Well,
let’s just say that didn’t quite
work out how I had expected.
And while we are on the sub-
ject, to the person that wrote the
article on grade inﬂation in the
Trident....What the *&%# are
you talking about?!? I know I
ain’t the sharpest spoon in the
drawer (or whatever the saying
is), butI got grades I didn’t even
know existed.

While Valedictorian is out
of reach, I can still get an A in a
class, but for now, that will have

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE ‘O7

to wait until next year along with
many other things.

The next thing I haven’t
done this year is a little
gross....laundry. To say that I
haven’t done
laundry all
year would be
a slight exag-
geration, but it
would still not
be that far off from the truth.
When I run out of underwear I
go to Wal-Mart and buy new
ones. When I run out of money,
I turn my old underwear inside
out. I roll the sleeves of my long
sleeve shirts up when I run out
of t-shirts, and wear jeans when
it is 80 degrees out. I work with
what I have, and what I don’t
have is the motivation to do
laundry, or even buy detergent.

When spring term came
around, I had plarmed to go to
Foxfields, but my wallet had
other ideas. See my wallet has a
mind of its own, so when I tried
to take 25 bucks out of it to pay
for my ticket, it informed me that
it was empty and fun would be

temporarily out of service. So,
while everyone else in the Dubya
community was wearing seer-
sucker and looking fratty, I was
sitting in my room all weekend
alone.

At least twice a week, I will
get an email asking if I want to
go bridge jumping. It just so hap-
pens that every time I get this
email I have “important” things
to do. Last time my hair was re-
ally dirty and I had to wash it.
The time before that, I had to
watch an episode of Saved by
the Bell. It’s not that I’m afraid
or anything. I mean jumping off
a bridge into a river seems like a
perfectly safe endeavor, espe-
cially for a man that barely
passed the swim test. But one
day I will grow the proverbial
guts and do it, however, this will
not happen this year.

I also did not make it out to
Goshen this spring. I can hear
people yelling and screaming at
me, “You didn’t go to Goshen?!?
What are you, some antireli—
gious, apathetic, nerd?” This is
the one thing I really wanted to

do spring term. All my friends
go and have a great time, while I
always have some big project
that I put off until the last rriinute.
I’m gonna try to get out there
before the year is over, but it’s
not looking good. So as one
person told me, “If you don’t go
to Goshen by the end of this
year, you should go and live in a
hole with Osama, because you
don’t deserve to be here.”

As I was cleaning out my
closet, I found my ﬁshing poles
that I had planned to use all the
time. Well once again, my line
has yet to get wet, and it’s a good
thing for the fish, because this
Idaho angler would have caught
my lirriit and then some, because
real ﬁshermen ignore pesky laws
and regulations.

Even though I have missed
out on doing all these things
that make Lexington and the sur-
rounding area great, I have got-
ten to do so many other things.
Buffalo Creek, Outer Banks, and
even learning sometimes. It just
goes to show that there is no
possible way to (fit all the joys of

 

 

 

BEING FRATTY. Phi Psis enjoy the outdoors at Buffalo Creek lastweekend. .

Dubyanell into one year. Some— A I
thing tells me that even after four
years, I still will not have done

everything I wanted to do.
Sounds like a good reason
to stay for a ﬁfth year huh?

Students strip on Lenfest stage and address social questions in song

BY JORDAN ANDERSON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Hair contains a scene of full ﬁontal nudity. It seems

foralong time.

The live band playing the music in the background

that the scene was added solely to make it that much
more controversial, but its there, and the W&L produc-
tion delivered what it had promised There were W&L
students, bearing it all on stage. Nudity aside, the natine
of the performance itself still has a lot of things to say.
To recreate the turbulent sixties using Washington
and Lee students wasn’t nearly as hard as it sounds.
The costumes were good typical hippie garb — vests,
embroidered jeans, etc. Despite most likely being con-
servative and polo loving by nature, the actors them-
selves performed well in character. This was apparent on
Friday afternoon, when several of the students went

around campus singing protest and peace-loving songs,

alsoaddedtothemoodoftlieplayastheypurnpedout
songs straight from the era, fully dressed in 60s attire.
Many of the songs contain insightful or deep lyrics that
delve into issues as complex as the natiue of man. The
light hearted theme and happier songs are intertwined
and the carefree attitude of the hippies remains through-
out, despite a clearly darker, more realistic undertone.
Thus what the audience gets is an enjoyable play with
soirie real meaning behind it.

Hairwasﬁrstreleasedin 1968, anditcame witiian
enormous amount of controversy. Given its content and
the context of the time, it is no surprise. Not to mention
the actual musical doesn’t really have any actual direc-
tion. The musical has no plot. The entire first halfhour of

TI-

A WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI
AsssOcIATION AND KATI
CORDIALLY INVITES ALL

OF T}

BBQ by Harik’s*Dessert and beverages
Fireworks at 9:05 pm

Entertainment by Southern Comfort, jubilee, General
Admission, and addresses by Homecoming Cluster
Chairs Ansel Sanders and Brooks Morgan

Must be present to receive your senior gift

- CLASS OF 2004 TO:

SENIOR
  NIGHT

Wednesday May 26, 2004

liberty Hall Ruins, 7:00 pm until 9:00 pm
Class Photo at 7:15 pm SHARP!

*.KON
TMBERS

exists, and its fun to watch the strange dynamic of all the
hippies interact- 
ing and living

    

with one another. disagree with the philosophy of
However, the doing nothing and instead go for
undeniable themore contemporaryAmeiican
themethat gives dream, Hair gives an interesting
this‘ play its mo- view into the alternative that reﬂects
rnentumis war. a core American ideal. The debate _
It is not co— at its core, which has so much per— I S
incidence that tinence today, is the dichotomy of
Hair started see- engaging in your freedom of dislik-
ing a revival a ing war and disagreeing with gov-

year or two ago. Hair is performance on the cam-
pus isn’t about protesting the war. I am willing to say
that Hair 3" performance in the 60s wasn’t about protest-

  

a sight that Washington and Lee probably has not seen ' the second act is a drug trip. A love story somewhat irig the war. The thing about the hippies in Hair is that

they feel that they are exercising their American right to
" ' do nothing, and enjoy their Ameri-
can freedom. Though most of us

en or going to ﬁght for your freedom to have
those dislikes. The question remains today, just like it
did 35 years ago.

Past editors imagine perfect Phi

BY KATIE HOWELL, CATHERINE GUY, BRETT T. KIRWAN
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS I’

Back when we ran the Phi, things were differ-
ent. And by different, we mean better. None of this
journalistic objectivity garbage, no, the Phi was a
shill for the University and a mouthpiece for the
Bush Administration. Since we’ll be loyal subscrib-
ers next year (as all alumni should be), some sug-
gestions for future editions based on our experi-
ences:

Quick Hits: Now here’s something we wish
we had thought of sooner— all the fun of insults
and sarcasm with none of the accountability. In
the future, all the Quick Hits should be about Brett,
or Jeb, or Brett and Jeb. Kudos to editors who re-
member to use “kudos” a lot. Don’t forget those
lame ones about who discovered what when or
whose birthday it is.

Hidden Heroes: Student involvement and lead-
ership rarely receive the recognition they deserve
because W&L is such a large and diverse campus.
Hidden Heroes has made an effort to right this
wrong but has left some student leaders neglected
and unsung. Hopefully, we will read about Helen
Hughes, Brian Castleberry, Thomas Worthy and
Marie Trimble next year because at W&L, “hid-
den” and “unsung” really mean “in the limelight”
and “shouted from the rooftops.” ‘

Staff Editorial: Isn’t the administration great?
Don’t you love puppies, apple pie and your mom?
Real newspapers stake out clear positions on con-
troversial issues and are unafraid to speak truth to
power. Under our direction, however, the Phi never
shied away from reminding students to pick up

litter or compliment the Trustees’ wives on their beau-
tiful spring outﬁts.

Opinions Page: What happened to hard-hitting, . _
must—read commentary on sweatshops? The Phi has ' ‘

gone soft. Next year, we want more love letters to
President Bush and less “diversity.” Who needs
writers from the left when you can print articles blam-
ing the common cold and hangnails on the Women’s
Studies program?

Tim Smith: We must admit, we never giessed
that rambling articles about frat cups and short skirts
could be so popular. He even earned a first—place

Virginia Press Association award! Whatever will they . - _

do next year without the Absolut Fratlord?

News: Whoever said “No news is good news”
was an idiot. N 0 news means late Sunday nights and
boring stories about dull Contact speakers like that
Polish guy. We couldn’t wait for “Something of
Value” to happen so we could publish a three-part
series. Oooh, Homecoming, Alumni Weekend, hap-
pens every year, but both get front—page billing at
the Phi.

Oﬁice Politics: Matt McDerrnott may have been
the face of the Phi, but we were the brains. JEBl
you’ll always be our “Dancing Queen.” And further-
more, there’s been altogether too much job security
this year. We expect that editors, writers and photog-
raphers will resume leaving the Phi like rats leaving a
sinking ship just to keep things interesting.

We commend the staff for all their hard work
this past year. No doubt our minds will drift back to
the Phi office on future Sunday nights. 

Couple announces engagement

Pl l( )T() <:( )URTI£SY KATHY \X/A

 

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Ms. Sharon l-Ming of
Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania wishes to
aruiounce the engagement of her daugh-
ter, Miss Katharine Jeng—ni Wang to Mr.
Lawrence McKenny, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur 0. McKenny of Warrenton, Vir-
giriia.

Wang is a member of the class of 2005
and McKenny is a member of the class of
2004. McKenny and Wang started dating
last September.

The couple plan to stay in Virginia
after their wedding. McKenny plans on
starting his own business while Wang will
attend graduate school.

The wedding is set for June 11, 2005
in Lee Chapel.

 

'1 PAGE 6

'— and more every year, meeting
' more people, getting involved in

 

THE

I’ve racked my brain for hours trying to ﬁnd a suitable topic for
my last article. Even though I haven’t been writing as long as some
more celebrated campus columnists, I still feel an immense responsi-

' - ; bility to compose the greatest article ever. While I most likely will not

succeed in that goal, I’ll do my best.

It seems like with each progressive year at W&L, I’ve gotten
more and more involved with this school and this community. And

. so, graduation scares me. It’s not that I’m scared of moving on - I

recognize now that in order to reach my goal of being the greatest

' college professor ever, I’1linvariably have to take the next step. But

I hesitate, because graduation seems like such an unfulﬁlling climax.
It’s tough to imagine doing more

ABSOLUT FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘04

more campus activities and so
forth, and then have it all end
suddenly in the June heat. That

: frightens me. I’ve poured a lot of my heart and soul into this place,

and in one instant a few days from now, I’ll walk into a different
world. A new one. I
Ifl could choose, this new world would still be in Lexington. I’d

' : . love to continue pouring that heart and soul into W&L by working for
' 5 the school. I’d love to continue my life in this community that has ﬁt

me so well. I’ve got a lot left to give. And since I’m staring at umpteen
years of grad school before I reach my eventual goal, I’m in no rush.
But when life takes me on a path away from Lexington, I won’t be

' disappointed. This experience has given me so many amazing memo-

ries that Lexington will never feel that far away. And so, I feel a need
to give recognition to the most amazing thing about W&L — it’s
people. And so, as my final act as the Absolute Frat Lord, I’ll do my
best to pay tribute to those people who’ve made these past four
years special. ‘

Ian Mcllroy, it’s been almost 15 years since we met in 3“ grade.
You’ve been my best friend since then, and I know you will continue

7 A to be in the future. Bryan Early, we’ve come full circle, and I trust and

respect you more than any man I’ve ever known.‘ Michael McClintock

Denbow, thanks for giving me my newspaper moniker and my online

 PWORD

ODAC identity. That freshman trip in the poop truck was one of a kind.

To the brothers of Lambda Chi, thanks for tolerating me
throughout the years. Kilanski, thanks for being my apprentice.
Squares, thanks for the musical exploits. Tom, thanks for the en-
thusiasm which has kept my love for the greatest sport on earth to
thrive. »

To Professor Porter, thanks for the advice and support, for

being a teacher and a friend. To Hutch and Kadlubowski, thanks
for making feel like a part of the team. To Jeremy Franklin, thanks
for letting me take my love for sports to a new level.

To Trotter, Caramore, Neuman, Todd, and Kerry, thanks for
the countless games of basketball, and giving me something con-
structive to do in the afternoons. To Pops, Seth, Marshall, Kowal,
and even Creigh Creigh for the greatest intramural run that Lambda
has ever seen.

To Liz King, thanks for a delightfully unique friendship, and
the most random and memorable Feb break ever. To Sessions,
thanks for humoring me for all these years. Griesemer, thanks for
reminding me why Wind Ensemble was not just an excuse to play in
the Jazz Ensemble. Falzareno, thanks for the Chi—O formal shirt.

To all the fraternity guys of W&L, thanks for not driving me .

completely insane over intramurals. Blair and Nancy, thanks for the
occasional company in that drab office. To Callie, Katie, and “The
Body” Jack Murray, thanks for the exhilarating 9AM discussions.
Now that was a fun time.

i To my WV delegation, thanks for picking up my slack — poli-
tics never was my thing, and you all deserve the credit for covering
my complete and utter lack of knowledge. To Chris Tully, thanks
for the opportunity to make music and get attention, two things I’ll
always love. It’s too bad Smokestax ever had to end.

To Sheep, Marshall, and Harrison, thanks for that OBX trip.
Easily the best time of my senior year — furthermore, Big Dune Long
Jump is the greatest picture ever.

To the Ring-tum Phi, thanks for the opportunity to write. It’s
been a heck of a run, and thanks for not cutting me loose the billion
times you were tempted to. I write this knowing full well my article
is currently several hours overdue. The truth is, I could go on
forever, thanking all the people at W&L for the memories I’ll hold

BREITT. KIRWAN

ACllNGAKIS&LIFEEDl'IOR
1<itwanb@wl

ucdu
Mom, MAY 24, 2004

Fratlord bids adieu to those who made W&L special

after graduation. I wanted so badly to resist a final “shout—outs”
article, because it’s tremendously sappy and corny, and I’ll invari-
ably leave out hundreds of people who deserve just as much trib-
ute. But in the end, I predictably caved in.

And so, all I can do is give my ﬁnal recommendation, the ﬁnal
nugget of wisdom that the Absolute Frat Lord will bequeath to the
W&L community. College, whether it’s this one or any other, is not
about going to class. It’s not about grades or independence of
freedom from authority or any of those things. It’s not about frater-
nities and sororities or drinking or parties.

College is amazing because of the people. It’s a community,
just like any other, but better than any other. There are so many things
to love about W&L, but more than any of them, I love the people. And
in my ﬁnal line in my final article, I’m glad to have the opportunity to
show my appreciation to everyone who has made these four years
memorable. Thank you. *

  
   

ULTIMATE. The Absolut Fratlord plays his faxl;Ic{>i3iTt(§ sport with Farhan
Mustafa, a fraternity brother of years past.

Greek participation enriches the W&L experience

I have noticed that, in re-
cent years, our campus has
seemed to move toward an anti-
Greek attitude. Also, this being my
last article, I thought it might be
pleasant to end on a more posi-
tive note, as opposed to some of
my previous ramblings. Therefore,

   
 

vulgar, and somewhat awkward
persona in addition a head full of
stubborn, northern anti—sorority
notions. Freshman year went by
quickly, and believing myself to
have been unhappy, I left just af-
ter winter term. I attended Boston
University fall term of my sopho-

in combining more year
these two prefac- THE NAKED TRUTH and, as the
ing notions Ihave ‘ s a y i n g
made the decision COURTNEY PERRY  goes, you
to reminisce about never truly

I ‘ the one aspect of my college ca-

reer that has changed my life in
ways no other experience could. I

_ - would like to dedicate this article
i to the fabulous, the wonderful,

the darling sisters of Pi Beta Phi.
Now, don’t hurt yourself as
you roll your eyes unnaturally far
back into your head, dear read-
ers. I don’t typically consider my-
self to be a sentimental person,
but I feel my situation regarding
the Greek system is a bit unique,

' - and, as this an opinion column, I

am determined to offer my opin-
ion despite the stigrnas and ste-
reotypes, and you can choose to
read of it what you will.

I arrived on this campus
roughly three and a half years ago
with an immature, uneducated,

realize what you have until it’s
gone. Being the conifort—zone ori-
ented person that I am, I guess I
just didn’t realize that what I
thought was unhappiness, was
only change. I came back to W&L
Winter Term knowing I wanted to
be a Pi Phi and be with all the
friends I had known the previous
year. I accepted a bid the Sunday
before rush week, and, thankfully,
never had to go through formal
recruitment.

I would never have gone
anywhere else, despite all the
lmown stereotypes. At 5’6” and
121 pounds on a good day, I don’t
exactly think ‘Pi Beta Fat’ applies
to me, and if being a member of
the ‘nice, smart girl sorority’ on
campus is a bad thing, then Lord

knows I have no desire to be cool
(the criteria for being ‘cool’ on this
campus has never suited my
tastes). For only having known
them a year, those girls were some
of the best friends I’d ever had in
my life, and I was proud to be able
to call them sisters.

Since my pledgesliip I have
put my heart and soul into that
organization and am happy to say
that I have gotten more than that
in return. As Chapter Treasurer for
a year, and assistant treasurer be-
fore that I’ve seen the good the
bad and the ugly as far as soror-
ity life goes.

Practically speaking, I
learned a lot about budgets, bank
reconciliations, revenues and ex-
penses. As an accounting major
these are skills that will stay with
me and help me in my business
endeavors for the rest of my life.
Personally speaking, I acquired
more social skills and fond memo-
ries that will stay with me, in all
aspects, for the rest of my life.

Forme, it wasn’tthefomials,
or the crush parties, or the mixers
at UVA. It was the drunken
snackfests at the sorority house
at 3 a.m. after everyone had got-
ten back from the frat parties. It

was the informal gatherings in the

TV room every Sunday night to V

watch Sex and the City. It was truth
or dare on the front porch, DDR
until 2 a.m., and Krystal Kitchen
$5 buffets on the weekends. I’ve
never been one for bulls&%t, and
I can honestly say that, I may, not
know a]l90girlsaswel1asIkno,W
the few closest to me, I may not
always agree with the decisions
that are made, and there may be
times when I want to go on a ho-
micidal rampage. . .but there is not
a single girl whom I could not sit
down next to at lunch.
On the other hand, I would
be the very last person to deny
the fact that there are bad times.
Late night exec meetings until
la.m., T—shirt design drama that
gets so exaggerated you’d think
the world was about to end, the
impossibility of pleasing every-
one all the time, the rumors, the
gossip, and the storytelling.
If you look around there is

no such thing as a stereotypical

Pi Phi. Sure, we do have the nice
girls, and the smart girls, but we’ve
got some bad ones too (and some-
how they all end up in my family).
We’ve got some drinkers, some
smokers, some dancers, some

SISTAHOOD! Hopefully, your Greek life is just as nice as Perry’s at Pi Phi.

singers; We’ve got girls in all ma-
jors, from all parts of the globe,
from all economic backgrounds,
of all shapes and sizes. However,
there is one thing that, in my opin-
ion, we all have in common: we all
want to be here. When the dust
settles after rush every year there
is a home for everyone, whether it
be a house with letters on the front
or not.

I would like to send a spe-
cial thanks to the Pi Beta Phi class
of 2004, for having given me a
home for the past four years.
Thank you also to all the 2003 exec
members who stood beside me
through all the blood sweat and
tears; and finally, thank you to the
best sorority family ever, the Fallen
Angels— it wouldn’t be home
with out you.

  

THIS ISSUE IS me LAST RING-TUM PHI FOR me 2003/2004 SCHOOL YEAR. OUR NEXT ISSUE WILL come out MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 6, 2004.

 

 E   . Q Jake Shelton— I hope you’re enjoying that
2 E  ‘ E 3 International Male catalog.

Q Why was there a girl wearing a tube top in
the gym last week? This is W&L," people. Pearls
are okay in the gym— tube tops are not!

Q Old House. Tonight, 9 p.m. Be there.

Q Doesn’t it annoy you that only the good die

phi@wlu.edu

Q I wish I were as cool as Pete Jones.

Q I’m really jealous of the girl who got to take
Kenny Kraft to the Pi Phi semi.

Q On for love or money: Love is great, but it
does not buy me new handbags.

Q Smile! You could be on hidden camera.

Q Now that the school year is coming to a close,
there are a few innocent freshman girls who would
like to send a message to one very inconsiderate
freshman guy: PEE IN YOUR OWN BED FROM
NOW ON!

Q Not Buffalo Creek but . . . I lost my Nalgene.
Mock Con weekend. At Windfall. In the back of
some guy’s unlocked car. I don’t know whose car it
was, but my “special friend” and I sure do thank
you!

Q Don’t let Matt Watson tell you otherwise:
He is awful at Beirut, and he will lose the World
Series.

Q I would like to apologize for us Northemers.
We confused all “y’all’s” Confederate ﬂags as
Southern.

Q If this school is so northern, then why isn’t
Ulysses S. Grant buried on campus?

Q Saying this school is northern is like saying
EC trials are fair.

Q Have a question? Ask Sam Kello, the resi-
dent expert on everything.

Q Don’t let Matt Watson tell you otherwise:
He is awful at Beirut, and he will lose the World
Series. ‘

Q Best W&L email addresses: hooka, leech,
lover, guys, thickman, lambs and ballot. (There are
probably more, but these are the best ones I have
so far).

Q IfRobert E. Lee had an email address it would
be leer@wlu.edu. Kind of creepy for him, kind of
dorky for me because I actually took thirty sec-
onds out of my life to ﬁgure out what Robert E.
Lee’s email address would be.

Q What does Tom White do when the weather

gets nice?

young and nice guys ﬁnish last but cheaters never
prosper?

Q Will it ever stop raining?

Q Would you rather have a unicorn horn or a

monkey tail?

Q Best website ever: What Would Uncle Jesse

Do? wwm wwujd.com

Q Do you have to do a lot of athletic training to

become a good social climber?

Q Be sure to participate in the Senior Pledge

Project if you haven’t yet.

Q Buffalo Creek seemed somewhat low key this
year. The fireworks were nice, but the lack of drunks
mudding with frat brothers clinging to the luggage
rack was a bit of a downer.

Q Plan ahead and swipe something home for
Father’s Day. Dad will appreciate the irony.

Q Three cheers for the Student Athlete Men-
tors. You carry on your important work unnoticed
and unthanked.

Q Best of luck to Horst Kohler and Chen Shui -

bian, the recently elected presidents of Germany

and Taiwan, ROC, respectively.

Q Arrggh! The Indians won five in a row only
to be swept by the Devil Rays!?! Could the base-
ball gods be any more cruel?

Q Birthday kudos to IRM, KBC, Tommy Chong,

Bob Dylan, Igor Sikorsky and Heavy D.

Q Chris Lauderrnan is the only reason I go to

Lambda Chi.

(1) One line Quick Hits are the hardest to write.

Q This is the last Quick Hit Brett Kirwan will
ever write. How sad.

Q Don’t e-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu because this is the last issue of the
year.

 

    

at

QAQ rcfwﬁ
e;a756

  

 

4 Roe?
v, l(.’7
ho. §
4 C - ’z1—- _ '
A
A 1
A . ‘ rev
_ ____ _ VoLuME€¥llI,No.6
,. ~  TUESDAY, SIMEMBER 7, 2004
The rmdem‘ were of Washington and Lee Ur1z'e*er.rz'@r sireee 7897

A<I>A, A20 be in recruiting at Washin

Washington and Lee students can now join t ese historically black Greek organizations through ‘joint chapters” with James

BY ERIN JULIUS
FDI'l‘()R—lN-CHIEI7

Washington and I_.ee students can now join histori-
cally black Greek organizations. Alpha Phi Alpha, a
historically black fraternity and Delta Sigma Theta, a
historically black sorority, are recruiting this semester.

Alpha Phi Alpha’s recruitment began last May,
when representatives of the fraternity met with 12 Wash-
ington and Lee men. Sean Bates. the Alpha Phi Alpha
representative supervising this campus’s recruitment,
is holding an informational seminar on Wednesday.

campus organiza

    

 

Daughters” T-shirt.

teven '. mos e ﬁg
MOVIN’ MANIACS. clockwise from top right: President Burish lugs a fan up from the BDG quad...Security guard Larry Stuart directs lines of parents into the unloading area...Dean

\lC'atkins shows off her muscle and she hauls a tupperware full of “stuf ” up to a freshman room...and Richard Bruno, ‘06, shows off the infamous “The Rugby Team Welcomes Your

Bates is also attending Wednesday’s Activities Fair and
Fiiday’s IFC meeting.

“I’m attending the IFC meeting as a guest of the
University—l want to see how it works and to see how
the two organizations can collaborate,” Bates said.

Alpha Phi Alpha will be accepting applications for
membership after Wednesday’s informational seminar. -

The fratemity’s Membership Intake, or pledgeship,
lasts two weeks. Bates said he expects to see Alpha Phi
Alpha members on Washington and Lee’s campus, “by
December 1.”

Washington and Lee’s Alpha Phi Alpha members
will be part of a “joint chapter” with James Madison

Move-in Day mayhem hits campus
Dorm Counselors, Administrators, Freshmen Orientation Committee and other
tions pitch in to help parents un

load and move students into dorms



  

   

University, said Dean Tammy Futrell. “We don’t have a

.the critical mass of students of color in general to have

a chapter here,” she said.

Because it is a joint chapter, Futrell said that some of
Alpha Phi Alpha’s activities will take place in Lexington
and some will take place at James Madison University.

Alpha Phi Alpha was the first intercollegiate Greek-
letter fraternity for African-Americans. It is now an in-
terracial fraternity, and has been since 1946, said Bates.
It was founded in 1906 at Cornell University.

Any male student who is not already a member of
another fraternity is eligible for membership in Alpha Phi
Alpha. '

    

bteven Mannos /' TN '

rig-tum

- rm /1

BY MARSHALL RULE
POTATO MAN

Two?!? I mean c’mon, is that the best we can do? New York at

 ‘ Potato man offers “Intro to Parties 101”

night. Your goal should be to hookup with as many upperclassmen as

possible.

Remember informal rush‘ is a semester long, which means for a

gton and Lee

dison University and Roanoke College

Futrell expects recruitment for the sorority, Delta
Sigma Theta to, “start immediately,” she said. Several cam-
pus women have already attended some interest meetings,
Futrell said.

Washington and Lee women can join Delta SigmaTheta
through a joint chapter with Roanoke College. Activities will
take place at Washington and Lee and at oanoke College.

Delta Sigma Theta will also have members on campus,
“hopefully by December 1,” Futrell said.

Delta Sigma Theta was chartered by 22 students at
Howard University in 1913 and now has a membership of
over 250,000 women, with chapters all over the U.S., Carib-
bean and Africa

Campus
memorializes
student’ s life

BY Cums LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

The campus community is mourning the death of one
of its own. Students and faculty will come together Sep-
tember 18 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel to remember the life of
rising sophomore Zachary Parmenter who died in an auto-
mobile accident in July.

“We are gathering the university to mourn, but also
to recognize there is hope,” said Acting Chaplain Burr
Datz. He wants the student body to realize there is hope
in these hard situations because he believes our campus
culture thinks death is the end. “We have to gather and
tell stories,” said Datz. Remembering the good times and
talking about Zach is good for the campus, Datz said.

Datz and Dustin Jacobson, President of Sigma Nu are
planning the service together. Students will take an active
role by reading Bible versus and reﬂecting on Parmenter.
Sigma Nu also plans on doing a fraternity ritual at the
service. Jacobson hopes that Parmenter’s parents will be
able to make it to Lexington for the memorial.

Parmenter’s friends describe him as perky, one of a
kind, and intelligent. They also acknowledge his strong
spiritual life.

Parmenter was spending his summer as a researcher
for the Physics and Engineering department under Assis-
tant Professor David Sukow. He was studying chaos syn-
chronization in diode lasers.

“Zach had a quiet- but keen sense of humor, and took
pleasure in the small, daily absurdities that arose in the
lab,” said Sukow. “He thought clearly and spoke articu-
lately, which gave him a real knack for explaining his in-
sights to others. In only two months of lab work, he had
already acquired the single most important capability a
research student can have - a certain intellectual courage,
the willingness to try things even when no one knew ex-
actly what the outcome would be. He will be greatly
missed.” ‘ .

“He was so unafraid to be himself and that’s what
we’ll miss most about him,” said Jacobson.

Freshman Wins
Oprah makover

Albany??? Are you Southerners going to get your butt whooped by the
Yankees again??? I mean losing the Civil War was bad enough, but
letting a bunch of liberal, tree-hugging northerners out party you? That,
my friend, is outrageous. ~

I think we all know who is to blame for this embarrassing defeat is, and
their name starts with an I-N, and ends with a dependants. I know all you
Indies out there think its cooler to go against the grain and do your own
thing, but let me let you in on a well known secret. . .. It’s not cool. So get

out there and carry your own weight. if not for me, do it for the southemers,

they’ve been losers for 150 years, which is longer than the Red Sox. This
year do your part to beat those damn Yankees, don’t be the Dubya version
of Bill Buckner.

Okay, that’s all, I promise not to talk about those stupid rankings
anymore. Now it’s on to much less interesting and less important things. ..
freshmen.

As once the epitome of an underachieving, exaggerating, arrogant

' Z , freshman, I shall offer my advice on your upcoming year in the hopes that

you are able to make these the best of your four, or for you “special” kids,
five years of your life. ,

You have fifteen hours of class each week... go to them all. Just
because your biology teacher doesn’t take roll doesn’t mean it’s a good

‘idea to skip 39 out of your 46 classes (believe me people have done it). You

will not pass, nor should you. More importantly, as I found out last year,
don’t skip a class where the teacher only allows a certain number of ab-
sences.

Karma will come around and after you have used up all your absences

'. f you will get an ulcer on the back of your throat and still have to go to class.

You are here for a reason, and remember what that reason is.

You are not smart. Your class as a whole may be the smartest class
ever to come into W&L, but so was every class before you, and we too are
all dumb. Just because you got a 1530 on your SA'l‘s, and have never

. : received a grade lower than an A— does not mean you will continue that

tradition here. And if you do, well you suck at life and 1 hate you.
While freshman guys’ main concern should be in the classroom, this
is not true for freshman girls. You should be in a frat basement every

semester you will be sucked up to and offered all sorts of free stuff.
Do your best to separate the, fakes from the legits, cause come
pledgeship, and much more importantly the next three years, you are
going to want friends, not acquaintances who tricked you into making
you think they liked you.

I know I said the P word in the past paragraph, but you as rushees
should forget about plcdgeship for right now at least. You know the
rumors about Beta, FIJI, and nearly every other frat on campus getting
in trouble for something or another during pledgeship, but you must
understand that the school, for obvious reasons of safety, overreacted
to last years pledgeship, and most of the frats were, if not cleared,
deserved to be. So don’t make your decision based on it, and don’t
mention the F word again.

‘ While on the ever talked-about topic of frats and srats, don’t sui-
cide rush. If you know the first week what house you want to be in.
that’s awesome, but make sure to go to other houses too. You never
know what may happen and suicide rushers too get balled. So expect
the best, but plan for the worst. And always remember there are 15, I
mean 14, wait now 13 frats on campus and you can be happy and have
a great four years at almost any of them. Much like colleges there isn’t
just one perfect fit.

Girls. you all can’t be Kappa’s, and why you would all want to be is
beyond me. So come rush week... don’t be one of the girls in the
bathroom crying because you didn’t get into your first choice sorority.
By the time you have graduated you will realize it’s not what srat you
were in, but rather if you enjoyed your four years here. And that you
can do no matter what Greek organization you joined.

lfl learned anything last year it was that moderation in life equals
success. I know this is getting especially deep for a hick from Idaho,
but give me a second or two.

You won’t be happy in the library every night and you won’t be
successful being at a frat every night either. You have enrolled in a
work hard—play hard school, and if you expect to be happy doing any-
thing else, you are painfully wrong.

So go out and enjoy the Fall, but don’t enjoy it too
much....except of course for the freshman girls.

Elliot Walker reveals her new look in September 17 show

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Producers of The Oprah
Winfrey Show surprised a student
in the Commons last Monday with a
plane ticket to Los Angeles and a
free makeover. Students crowded
around as producers informed
freshman Elliott Walker that she
would be showing off her new look

in front of a studio audience in two

weeks.

When Walker heard a disturbance
in the dining hall last Monday, she
looked up from her dinner and saw her
sister Allie, who attends college in an-
other state. The sight was so surpris-
ing that Walker didn’t realize the ac-
tual meaning of her presence, even
when her sister asked, “Do you remem-
ber when you wrote to Oprah. . .?”

“It took me awhile to figure out
the cameras were there,” said Walker.

Walker applied for the makeover
on oprah.com, which advertises on-
screen opportunities to “SURPRISE
someone who does a GREAT JOB” or
to do “the ONE THING you’ve only
DREAMED of doing”, among others.

“I’d written to the Oprah show
countless times and I’d never heard
back.” Walker admitted. When she
received an e-mail this summer ask-

ing for clothing sizes and a photo,
she waited anxiously for the notifi-
cation promised within two weeks.
After three weeks, she gave up and
sent in another application, un-
aware that she had been chosen for
the makeover.

Producers contacted Walker’s
family, as well as Dean of Fresh-
men David Leonard, before am-
bushing her in the Commons din-
ing hall.

With sister in tow, Walker ﬂew
to California early Tuesday morn-
ing for two days spent in salons,
boutiques, and Beverly Hills’ luxu-
rious Le Meridien Hotel.

Unfortunately, Walker has to
keep her lips sealed about the show
until its airing on September 17.

A mystery celebrity guest
chaperoned Ellie and Allie through
their shopping excursions, and the
show’s producers don’t want the
secret to slip. '

Walker, a native of Florence,
South Carolina, will miss her first
day of classes for the show’s tap-
ing in Chicago.

With the support of her family
and the administration, she’s
thrilled that all her fondest e-mails
have finally been answered. “I
guess it finally paid off!”

 

 

PAGE 2

AOVERTlSEMENTS

TUESDAY. SEPTFMBFR 7, 2004

TiiRiNG-TuM‘lPH1

Editor in chief Erin Julius
Managing Editor Chris Laudermnn

News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinins Editor
Arts & Life Editor

Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Sarah Murray
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Emily Edwards
Chad Kiewiet
Corbin Blackford
‘ 110 Washington Street 463-6954

Business Manager David Seifert

Closest Food Market to campus

Circulation Director Robb Rain The counterculture Cafe
Home-cooked vegetarian fare
11 a.m.-2 p.m.

Eat in or take out

The Ring-tum Phi is published
Mondays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia. The Wash-
ington and Lee Publications Board elects
the Editors in chief, but The Ring—tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all re-
sponsible submissions and letters. All sub-

- clean meats
- gounnelcheeses
- N.Y. Bagels

- wholesome snacks
- organic produce
- quick-ﬁx entrees

Member discounts available

Mon-Fri 9-6 Sat 9-5

 

Wl"i‘|'¢ for the Phil
Meetings 5:15
3rd floor

University
Commons

Agnor's Gun Wor'ks,LLC

“Gunsmi’rhing"283 Edgars Way ~ Lexington, VA 24450
540-463-1934
www.agnorsgunworks.com .
TRANSFERS ~ SALES BLUING ~
NICKEL PLATING REPAIRS ON ALL TYPES OF
FIREARMS

FIBSIIIIIBII. Eat Vllllf !II'BB|lS!

missions must be e—mailed to

phi@w1u.edu or in the University Center
mailbox by 5 p.m. Friday to appear in the
following week's edition. The Ring—tum
Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and col-
umns do not necessarily reﬂect the opin-
ion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This
newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

Pappagallo
Welcomes

the class of
2008!

The Ring-rum Phi
Mailing Address: University
Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Street Address: University
Commons
Room 341
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone.‘ (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

 

W&L’ s first newspaper

Spring Break 2005
</' J
Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator to Jamaica,
Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring on-campus
reps. Call for group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or wvvw.ststravel.com.

é



FINE L§HG$R§$

ﬂrmats }*”ouﬁ57ow
mda W!n¢:£otMore!

L Prescription Center
Independently owned and operated

112 B Houston Street - Lexington, Virginia 24450 F*3*l*‘*aHan
ky Panky
540-463-9166 Cosabeﬁa
Le Mystere
8:30 a.‘rn. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday Arianne
8:30 a.rn. to 12:00 noon Saturday H0”€Yd€W

Most Third Party Prescription Cards Accepted

Delivery Service Daily 21 w_ Negson St
Drive Through Window Service 463_6963
After Hours Dl'0P BOX Mon _ Fri 
Store Charge Account Available for Parents Sm “L5
Major Credit Cards Accepted
“semper ubi sub ubi”

LEXINGTON, VA.-

Yes, FIIEE*
rleliverv on all
our tamous name

_ Ilraml mattress

V and box snrin sts
with carillon!

'50 Mile‘ Radius Of Store. $250 Minimum Purchase.
C upon Expires 10/04/04

C3

SPRING
A1

(540) 463-2175 - 485 East Nelson Street

Halestone “Dance Studio

10 South Randolph Street - Lexington, VA 24450
www.halestone.com

Yoga & Dance Conditioning

Promoting Personal Discovery Through

the Body-Mind in Movement

(540) 463-1444 WW

 

Vi/.9/co//re *3ﬁMe/7fs./

We invite you to Toke
(1 walk down
Washington Street and
meet some
local artists of Artists in Cohoors,
‘a cooperative gallery
on the corner of
Washington and Main.

4 ‘P4/2/Z’/2/gs - l/I/004’ Cary/ﬁgs - P//oﬁogra///5 - Pottery
f/4/Mam/$64 Jim/e/ry - 6/455 0
%l/We/died ﬁo l/I/&£ and [ex/ngfo/7

  
  

ists in_
Cahoots

Lexington, Virginia

540-4644 147
www.ortistslncohoots.com

Open: 10-5:30 Monclciy—Soturdciy
1 1-3 most Sundays

T1113?"I'I‘I”'Ii"!'I'I’I‘1‘I$‘I'I'I"I‘I*‘E'I‘I"I'I"i’I?'I"I‘I“"I1"I"l"I'I\'ﬂ'!I"I‘I?I"IW*§'I’I7'I"'U1

E Blue Ridge
 Auto center

is now a 

almanac-mmtaeataracmnmlutttstooiimaaualaiusrtiatmtomm
V  ‘I :ﬂ¢%96ﬂlﬁ$H$ﬂl‘  .“r.:+‘:’+:' ﬁlﬂlmlﬂﬁkﬂwli
miatetetmoraii iallmmatsimras. ‘
"ismrroaniiarurmriismnsaananiiiiiiiaana. ,
i~ mini onuviiniiszas s osmium 4» wt or assrniin mraimaur -.0
mrniirrm mu oi lllﬂlﬁlt as can comm: s-

”"“iii;‘s“ziiZii’iinr S 
mnamumcumrisi ;; , tﬁmmmls ;
imnmcan V n: starﬁanat$%.§.s% .
, __ “ii A ..... .. .,     ,  
Béillﬁ H3098 Auto $8!-ital’
54332-2li*l.-93?l

  

 

      
 

:,........-....

     

I918 ﬁﬁaﬁitlﬂiia itiro-titre ~na.e:na liters. tilt

Virginia

Make the most of your spring semester with an
exciting internship, challenging college courses,
interesting guest speakers and all the drama of

Virginia politics.

Experience Virginias capital city during the
excitement of a legislative session while continuing
your Studies on a full-time basis through course
work at Virginia Commonwealth University — and

earn a $1,000 internship stipend.

Capital Semester  

For more information and application:

- http://wvvw.vcu.edu'/capitalsemester;

- Virginia Capital Semester, L. Douglas Wilder
School of Government and Public Affairs,
PO. Box 842028, Virginia Commonwealth
University, Richmond, VA 23284-2028; or

- Contact Professor Ralph Hambrlck at
(804) 828-8053, or vacapltalsem@vcu.edu.

- Application deadline is Oct. 1,2004.

an equal opportunity/affirmative action university

CommonweaI_t‘h‘Uni

  
   
   
       
   
   
   
   
   
      
     
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
  

4|

I TUESDAY. SEFFEMBER  200%  p » 0 PAGE 

       Hidden Valley arm

_ Aptly named for its magniﬁcent setting at
 the base of the Blue Ridge Mountains, HID-
DEN VALLEY FARM offers, on 438 acres, an

“' exceptional combination of a privately situ-
‘ated farmstead, productive upland acreage,
‘ unobstructed mountains views, practical im-
provements to accommodate horses and cattle,

~’ healthy woodlands, providing habitat for plen-
  tiful wildlife, and abundant water resources
at provided by numerous springs, wells, and one-
half mile of the Saint Mary’s River.

      

The solid brick home exhibits early
Shenandoah craftsmanship with heartpine
ﬂoors, six fireplaces, carved mantels, and
simple, solid woodwork throughout the six pri-

mary rooms.

The cottage and early log smokehouse
complement the hospitality of the‘ home. Horse
facilities include seven stalls in a stable com-
plete with an ofﬁce, washrack, and feed and
tack room. Nearby are six day stalls and two
stallion stalls with individual pens. There is a
large crushed stone exercise area suitable for a
ring or rings. A .

Additional structures include numerous run- .
in sheds, a pole buildingfor hay storage, a ma- .
chine shed and a traditional bankbarn.

A ﬂexible conservation easement conveys with
the farm

“y     in Vey Farm: $2,450,000 s .

 
       
     
     
   
   

 

>

1 . s Cabin on the Maury

      
 

4 Cabin on the Maury. C. 1870, One fabulous acre.
_Two bedrooms, one bath, oil heat. Carport. Walk
-swim or canoe to town. Price: $250,000

       
       
   
   

  C 0 Glenn Land Compan .
5 , Old School realtors A V e
 , ofﬁce: (540)348-2000

 
 

’ residence: (540) 348-5656 \

-a ;~ ‘ www.landandestates.com

PAGE 4  ' TUESDAY. SEPTFMBER 7, .2062.’

  
  

4"“ FF" it’-A E no €189‘! 

"'7 9. b (,ow.w as/\‘>  

5 ?g;r¥~\M)
- Hgagg

117 m. : ‘7-W "
v ‘#11 ll-['1

LLH E55 "' ' ‘L 

  

 —-r::.“";
} § Gn.\A€§ -
I 3 ¥ 4 .
¢ use. A ‘ ‘
 { :r~n+wnR‘-- ‘'"°’‘’‘'‘
% , ’ Haw‘: .:
§  -:i**
% 5
  Ecsi:-Agra»/x
 : $M=~s

 A  rs

TE’FF§rB—$OI\l

T

~.———..,
....-on...

..-4»
wamaaa. twain-ﬂ-mun-ngau9ov~=ﬁ-»::u

~ > g...
,A»k

I <‘,_‘_\ .-
‘ \

' -.3‘!-.

"wzas rcw
m:n.<>c~

   

% wksumerorxg

 5 cl  
V~ANb~‘av?\~\ W   4
.   W‘? 2 '
'* a......_... .% * .
E *2 ‘
;§3f,_,___%    ,
.Vzoa ZAE
2  ‘. L1 .3 * 4>l‘~‘1’ I 5
/\)(A- g% LA

    LEXW mm %

bauﬂcl Setﬁrk '06:

 

 

   
    

rFUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 7. 2004  Pm; 5

 

.§..c,1  L:\v.f0\**\\ Sc‘-.v.v‘k Cevuef

 

   

E Vpm 74.3» &;«~..,

V ’°_ " ﬂab ﬂown?

'  ;-(¢,.g1-[Ml -Fm-J5 /“|qrk<J- Q3) H°"~"S 0*“ 17"‘w75

I A‘ ®   Cl!-lbw ®  
3 Q) Lee H: Tr-ve.\ WM IN‘I’l5 P-NET
*  /V[ouw5‘\*'b\-\I\ MAMA C“H""V") ® Lgl(F.‘rsF

V  _./‘ﬂa\¢\¢.".€.l‘plucL ® 
« ‘W553 .0‘ mmae
‘\ ® Curves 69¢’ wwu A @ ’;,wwg,|$ ¢;,{.g.hm(__
‘ C9) Elcwcwh Salwx on-J 557% Mrkggx‘

b ® Ho1,'€«SfaA( but-M2   -3“ k V
A Arws ~ Ca»-v*s
E @ Lax-vgiw E$e.h~\ of km A

  APEAPEL A __——.E‘Em“E

I  .t.n'I~"W‘M"Q.. 

J (E EaWﬂO“H°$por1"~\~9V‘r ?tvw—r-t4 c.‘(

' .   .a.ver-“M  ’ ‘ E E

   Ewes :='>'T.:;:.:.".;«-» e»=sw-«<- c«»-

 

PAGE6  A I TUESDAY. SEIYFFMBFR 7. 2004 5’ 
Best Value in Wireless '

 

Anytime Minutes
The most minutes where you use your minutes the most.

True Nationwide Minutes a
Roaming minutes anywhere in the United States.

Free Nationwide Long Distance
Call anywhere in the United States and save!

1 FREE Features
Caller ID > Voice Mail > Three Way Calling > Call Waiting
Call Forwarding > Incoming Text Messaging

  
   
   

“Do Ringtones
Download ringtones

Do Games
Download games

 

Like Sports?
Tl ‘~  

0 0 The Phi has an opening for an Assistant Sports Editor.
- I Interested?
Wire fess Email phi@w1u.edu or j u1iuse@wlu.edu
OR
Attend our meeting Mon., September 1 3 in the Commons, room
34 1 .

  

         

             

 

  

 

 

EQUAL ||vE 7716300”
Over 40, 000 Bookes, New, Used & Rare! ~
A New PublicAffairs Program Ne)” Re‘eaS° .      I 2?  men 5  ﬁg;
Rockbrldge Herltage tesiisngis-erg, “ai’=-§r'1gQ—%,%=*i§n 244 as
Premieres Next Tuesday A P‘g°“"§’aﬁ?h: ES5ag:f1:3°kb“da"9gg)““W  ream ’ l”
y as in on an ee umnus V -_ -2?’ M _
September 14 at 7 P-m- Thornton “Tim” M. Henry and  '
. . . . -  . . :*i.ﬂ
President Tom BUl'lSh]OIl1S “‘S“a“gh‘e”R“‘hH“"VK°Y°S mam E: x
. ‘ . Signed Sally Mann ' ’
host Brian Murchison & Cy Twomwy
 I We have hundreds of I r*’§§:::a; :"”:§“s;,; K
Unique Books
New, Used, Collectible and Signed  . M I I 5 X
464-3377, 107 W. Nelson St. e A  I q  0
Open 7 days a week at 9 a.m. 760 N. Lee Highway
Plus New Commons Director 550""-93 5‘lU0""- 5h°PPl“9 Cenler ‘
. _ A , 00 F 
Margo McC|inton live in the studio . 4°36o?S22Lis“*
Area's Largest Antique Mall, specializing in used furniture '
and “cool" accessories for the “c'ool" house or apartment. I‘
Listen On     0|” Onllne The Phl We 1 ‘ There's something for everyone!
Monday—Saturday \ 
a‘W'”’-W'”-ed” comes the Class C 10 a.m. — 6 p.m. »
Sunday
of  ‘11a.m.—6p.m.
ooooooooooo ‘
Q (540) 454-5555 7*
This space donatedinloving memory of Ronald Reagan I   I    
St a  It’s time to exercise something " _ ‘ 1  *  I . I
. other than your mind. - I —
MOUNTAIN MAMA CATERING 7»
 It ‘ LOCAL, LICENSED, INSPECTED & INSURED
I I F OR ALL OF YOUR SPECIAL OCCASIONS: A
W PARTIES, RECEPTIONS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS
  M_....r,...ti.;,.  51:11’.l§':°Z§§,:$§.ZT;dr;L:E.’éL“§i’§? :37‘ MIRABI MCLEQD’ OWNER K
*   g   ﬁm7),u< monsensewelght loss, and all . g
_  Per Scvncstcr   ';‘::;:ak.‘"° CALLZ 540-463-1760 ~ . . ' . ' I
L  $540) 4645546 OR EMAIL: MI1L<XBAI888@YAHOO.COM A
780 N Lee Hwy '
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2004

Af3lV‘tRT1sEMENTs

Bluekidge
PHYSICAL THERAPY

Core with you in mind
463-5888
728 North Lee Hwy
Lexington, VA
(College Square shopping center)

John 3:16

Specializing in:

Orthopedics
Sports Medicine
Spinal. Mobilization
Post-OP rehabilitation

Please call or stop by to speak with one cfour stay?"
members with any questions you may have concermngyour

treatment, or your insurance.

-. . ,
-4 _ ._'» 1;. .
4-,3‘ \_. v .
2‘.-rv . ‘
I: l
‘J

I ‘ Wm.»
: éflorist@garden

603 NORTH LEE HIGHWAY

lolcolo lull
Inna In lllls all anll resolve a me am!
540.463.9841

 um|IﬂInhmn
Easﬂccoss olmms lllllmml

<I><I)<I><I)<I)<I><I><I><I><I><I><I>d><l><I>

STRINGED INSTRUMENT
Expen‘ Repair & Set-Up

Guitars & Basses

Acoustic & Electric

References Available
Local ServiceNVilI Pick Up & Deliver!

LEO LORENZONI
Luthier
_ 540-258-1401

<1) Advertising

STOP BY AND TRY OUR DELICIOUS
All You Can Eat Lunch Buffet!

100 Walker Street
Lexington, VA

540-463-9622

‘We Do Catering!

- Hot Vegetables - Cold Salads - Desserts - Bread
- the Co|one|’sT”'Original Recipe® and
- Extra CrispyT"'Chicken

Call Donna at: 540-463-9622
For all your catering needs;

Lexington School of
4 Dance

14 E Nelson St.

{’,__.a

Adult class offered in Ballet, Point,
Jazz, Tap, and Modern Dance with
Collette Barry-Ree
Now offering Salsa classes and
Ballroom Dance
Call Sherri Lamonk at 463-4466.
Classes begin Tuesday Sept. 7.

Nabors Service League
Get involved!

Xcaaau 1>nn~rr1N

EMBROIDERY
464-9042
637 Waddeu St.
Lexington Va.

ATTENTION Loan or THE Rmes FANS:

A two-session class for fans of JRR Tolkien’: Lord
of the Rings trilogy is scheduled at the Rockbridge
Regional Library in Lexington On Tuesdays,
September 14 and 21, from 6:00 to 7:30 p.m.
The class is

Offered through Dabncy 5. Lancaster Community
College's non-credit program.

‘Tolkien and LOTR: A Discussion About Middle
Earth“ will be led by facilitator Dick Matthews, a
free lance writer and innkcepcr who has led similar
discussion groups in other localities. Topics will
range from the nature of men, elves, dwarvcs and
wizards to Middle Earth imagery and the quest
theme in To|kicn's works-or anything else the group

yvould like to discuss.

Want to have friends and inﬂuence
people?

Write for the Phi!

And guess what? You don’t have to have experience, just
attend our meeting on Mon., Sept. 13 in the Commons, room 341.

Since (I3 1897

New Opticians Boutique

Extreme Fun!
Extreme Sun!

Oakley
Maui Jim

T helbest sun protection you can buy.
For all your Vision needs come to
203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

540-463-7440

www.newopticians.com

Chi Omega
welcomes ~
the class
of 2008!

For Rent

ParentsIAIumnI Weekends - Beautifully restored
and modernized cabin on 45 acres In mountains
15 mln. west of Lexlngton. completely furnished
wlth period antlques and local art. 2 BB?BA -V
sleeps 6. Separate guest cottage — sleeps 2.
Perfect for 2 to 3 couples. Prlvate vacatlon
resldence occasionally avallable for rent either
weekly or nlghtly wl 3 nt. mln.
call (804) 355-0002.

8 column inch ad -
$26

50 column inch ad-
$162.50

Price per column

Corsages & Bouts

Flowers & Tqings
Florist

For the “Unique” at affordable prices!

Teleﬂora Wire Service

Gift & Fruit Baskets

Balloons 4& Fresh Arrangements

Daily Lexington Delivery (if ordered by 12)
All major credit cards accepted

Call 540-261-6300 or 1-800-872-6156

inch - $3.25

Reaching Wash-
ington and Lee’s

entire student body-
PRICELESSL .

Phi AdVertising- the
only way to go.

contact Business

Manager David Seifert at
540.458.4060 or

phi-business@w1u.edu

 

 

PAGE

8

THE  PWO RD

phi@wlu.edu

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2004

Princaton Review  the hell’S 3   '

7'/7e true story of the (//7/Vers/'ly’s on/y off/'c/a/ wee/r/y pub//‘cat/'0/7. Song and a//.

O
R  1 n g S R e 1 6 a S 6 d (Reprinted from the Ring-tum Phi ofTuesday, Dec. 5, 1967) “For making gains, Sir,
“Round the end.
Back in the days when telephones (all 68 of them in Lexington, an “And it’s a sin, sir,
Washington and Lee University Rankings in The Princeton Review is The advertisement boasted) were known as “up-to-date electric call bells,” back “For Oberlin (a W&L player), sir,
Best 357 Colleges when stealing a bell-clapper was called “a naughty-one’s frolic,” in the same “To buck the V.M.I. boys’ line so awfully hard.
year that the New York Post conferred on this city (really)'the title “Athens of “Then join the yell, boys,
Rank List Category the South” — there came into being a little newspaper published weekly, “by “And yell like hell, boys,
the students for the Washington and Lee University community,” and named “Sure enough.

#10 Professors Bring Material to Life Academics after the most popular of that University’s football cheers: “Ring-tum Phi.” “To W&L U., boys,

#4 Professors Make Themselves Accessible Academics “Coincident with the administration of President Wilson begins the “And foot-ball, too, boys,

#14 School Runs Like Butter Administration career of a new publication at Washington and Lee, the Ring-tum Phi. The “Let’s give arousing, rumbling, roaring football yell.

# l0 Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative Demographics Ring-tum Phi is a weekly journal and presents a pleasing appearance. It meets “Ring-tum Phi, stickeri burn,

#6 Homogenous Student Population Demographics a distinct need in the University and relieves the Collegian of what formerly “&c, &c.”

#3 Little Race/C1355 Interaction D€m°gT3PhlCS has tended only to clog and retard.” Well, hell broke loose. The next issue, an incensed letter-to-the-
#l' Lots ofBeer Pariies ' editor writer (we told you things haven’t changed much) said:

#1 Lots 0fHarCl Liquor Parties Literary Magazine “There appeared in the columns of the Ring—tum Phi, last week, a
#14 Major Frat and Sorority Scene Parties “The Collegian is primarily a literary magazine, and when the editors song which, to the very thoughtful person had very little to recommend it. . .The
#2 Party Schools Parties heretofore were forced to cram in a limitless number of locals, they always only thing that I can see that would have recommended it to the editorial eye
#15 Beautiful Campus Quality of Life bewailed the dismal incongruity. Henceforth, we rejoice to say, the Collegian is the little smack of naughtiness which makes the ﬁrst rhyme in the last verse.
#16 Happy Students Quality 0fLife is freed from matters of this kind, and will both be compelled to try to serve two “The Editor seems to be filled with pride to even know the author; he

  3 2  

P‘f§!)i&L CAR INNER & TIN TOY CARS

Oxdcrfrommxt

Ell

Orjoirx  YOUt24lNE&TBuﬂE-ix.’

~Fridayt¢igtstSmfood8u£fetwtihCtabLegs5?M~10P!é

~SaturdayNigttt&eak&8bn‘rrm

593540534!

~Sum3ay Baked Chicken 8: BBQ Ribs ‘!tﬁ&al~=9P!s!
~BfaakfwBar7 Baysawsekﬂhla-11AM
~{)atty Not Country Bar 11AM—’tt3¥’M
~i}ai!fy 861151, emu, 8: Fnét Bar 1‘!A9ﬁ-109$?

Home Contact Mauls 8:‘ Smttitem Hospitality!

Orcltrﬁrczﬁast 24I“Iou1xaDay.Sc1n:ndzysawm':it5

 

   

ends at once...”

“Gentlemen of T he Ring—tum Phi, you have our best wishes. Gentle-
men of The Ring-tum Phi, we give our sincerest thanks. Students of W. and L.,
we congratulate you on the advent of the long needed weekly!”

The year was 1897. The Southern Collegian was still a high-quality
magazine, being published by the Graham Literary Society. The Ring-tum Phi
was designed to be a somewhat lighter, perhaps even ribald, complement to
the Collegian.

Eighteen and ninety-seven. The year the football coach had to send
away for a special noseguard “to protect the colossal proboscis which accom-
panies Mr. Fitzhugh’s countenance.” (“Mr.” Fitzhugh was a student; every-
body then was Mister or Doctor of Professor or Reverend.)

Scandalous Verse
Eighteen and ninety-seven. The year of the Great Hell Scandal. It
seems the very first editor-in-chief, George Houston, in the fourth issue of the
neophyte newspaper, published a column of “Football Songs.” one of which
was included withthis verse:
“Each other’s back, boys
“Has got a knack, boys,

puts the verse in the first column of the newspaper and writes an editorial
commending it as ‘especially good.’ He says the words tire the voice a little.

“Now everyone, who knows anything of the subject, knows that the
sound of that ‘h’ has a very rasping effect on the vocal chords. How much
better it would have been had the line read: ‘And yell right well, boys.’ It
would have sounded better, been easier on the voice, and would have saved
the writer and Editor from showing their weakness. ,

“It can be admitted that, to some eyes, there is something worthy of
admiration in a dark, purple crime, but to bow before a sinlet like this is weak-
ness personified.

“In the future let me suggest that the Editor follow the path of virtue.
He will not only find it pleasant, but may keep himself ﬁom showing his lack of
taste.

_R”

Well, “R.” intimidated Mr. Houston. Who wouldn’t be intimidated if
he were editing a brand-new paper that nobody, not even students, had ever
heard of, named the Ring-tum Phi; and somebody came along and accused
him of printing sinlets on his front page?

i E Q Dean Leonard’s lost some

 

Located at weight. Lookin’ good! any VMIs at orientation parties yet. going to law school here now?

  TRAVEL M Q Has anyone else noticed all the Q Eat your greens! Look what Q For the ﬁrst time, Brett Kirwan

9481 3'. K-54, EXIT 195.2516 Nat’!!! 1323 “WY, IKXINQTGH, VA sketchy alums at the orientation happened to Bill Clinton. wrote absolutly none of the quick
. rt‘ ? ' h't .
  pa Ies Q Swaziland is celebrating 36 years 1 S

3 _ FM‘ & ‘ p E‘ I ad, . " Q Is it just me, or do the freshmen of independence today. Sounds like Q E--mail your anonymous Quick
. i y i I Q ‘Yak T I I0/7 WM 90,” girls look better every year? a reason to party to me! Hits to phi@wIu.edu

Q Thank God I haven’t run into Q What? Matt McDermott is l

CLASS OF 200

.414/'/é I/02//' CS4/5/7427' Fa/” Téem [W150/2%/az‘ Ey€/2'z‘.r/

All seniors are to attend one ofthe Septernber senior rncetings. Each rneeting will include an
overview ofeRecruiting.corn, career advising services, and a Class of 2005 packet of inforrnation
including an announcernent of the new online service for letters of relcornrnendation.

SE].\TIC)R IVIEETINGS

* Thursday, Septernber 9th Elrod Cornrnons Theatre 7:00 p.rn. OR

* l\/Ionday, Septernbcr 13th Elrod Cornrnons Theatre 7:00 p.rn.
PRE —LAVU MEETING
* Tuesday, September 14th \7Vill.ian1s School Room 327 7:30 p.1n.

Essential for everyone considering law school in 2005 or 2006

DIVERSITY CAREER DAY
* Tuesday, October 19th Onnni I-Iotel, Charlottesville 10:00 a.rn. -23:00 p.111.
Sign—up required on cRecruiting Calendar, transportation provided by Career Services.

SLAC INTERVIEVVIING DAYS

. INFCDRJS/IATIC)NAL LJEETIJNG

* Thursday, September 30th Elrod Cornrnons T'heatre

SLAC—Rc-suzne Deadline: Tuesday, October 26, 2004
The SLAC (Selective Liberal Arts Consortiurn) interviewing days are an essential part of the job
search process for Washington and Lee seniors. Through this prograrn, you can cornpete for
interviews with cornpanies in Chicago, New York City, Philadelphia, and IDC. Seniors frorn W&L
have accepted jobs with AClNiclsen, SC()REl, l\/Iernorial Sloan—I<ettcring Cancer Ctr., Cravath,
Swaine 8: l\/Ioore, and Random House Publishing.

12:00 p.m.

SEPTEIVIBER IS PRACTICE INTERVIEV7 l\/ICDNTI-I

On carnpus interviews start October 1. Be prepared!
Call 8595 for more inforrnation. M

 

John \X/. Elrod University Cornnnons 301

::——:-r —
-:--—:—'

K-

.4‘.

_ . ,
‘la
1 .

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
T HE

NG-TUM

The lilllitlli wire of Wurliinglon and Lie Unz'oerrz'Iy since 7897

(VT
VOLUME ,No.7

PHI

A Possible changes in store for fraternity pledgeship

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF wRITER

After the Administration’s

"’ problems with last year’s fraternity

New Member Education, generally
known around campus as
“pledgeship,” the IFC and fraterni-
. ties on campus may be forced to
rethink previous years’ deﬁnition
of “pledgeship.” Questionable vio-
lations of New Member Education
led to investigations last year of
several fraternities, though most ac-
cusations were later cleared.
Though the IFC has not determined

what changes could be made

this year to avoid new member

education violations, rumors
have circled campus of short-
ening the period of new mem-
ber education. These rumors
were not confirmed by IFC
president Torn Pickering.

A committee, consisting of

half students and half faculty,
has been formed to “recom—
mend solutions that beneﬁt the

fraternities, new members, and

the university as a whole,”
Pickering says. “The IFC feels
that the necessary guidelines

Faculty and students forming committee to study New Member Education

for New Member Education are
already present in the IFC Con-
stitution and the Student Hand-
book, but compliance is the
main problem.” After last year’s
complaints against the 8-week
period of New Member Educa-
tion, changes could happen this
year.

Pledgeship has already
been shortened once, in 1998,
from a previous 10 week period.
The Student Affairs Committee,
made of six faculty and six stu-
dent leaders, reexamined New
Member Education in 2001 and

submitted a report that recom- ‘

mended the New Member Edu-
cation period remaining at 8
weeks.

Others feel that the crack-
down of the University on fra-
ternities and pledgeship is part
of the University’s desire to
keep W&L from the stigma of
the “number 2 party school.”
A sophomore man affiliated
with a Greek house said that
“the fact that kegs and drink-
ing games must stay off cam-
pus already displays the
University’s attempts to cut
back on Greek—based, on-cam-

pus revelry.”

Any changes in the 2005
New Member Education period
should be revealed by the end
of Fall Term, after Provost Will-
iarns armounces the committee.
Many students say they disap-
prove of such changes. Another
sophomore Greek man said, “I
haven’t heard anything about a
4 week pledgeship, but if that’s
the truth there’s going to be a
bigger brouhaha than when elec-
tricity was invented.”

Sources chose to remain
anonymous in order to avoid
any possible repercussions on
their Greek organizations’
recruitments.

ON OGERS ' NC-TUM HI

Convocation: Dr. Andrew Kumpuris, a W&L alumnus and Little Rock, Ark., cardiologist who was a member of President Clinton’s bipartisan Health Care

Task Force was the keynote speaker at Washington and Lee’s Convocation last Wednesday evening. Kumpuris has advised U.S. Senate members on
legislation dealing with patient safety, rural health care and Medicare reform issues. Kumpuris joined W&L’s faculty in the 2003 winter term, during
which he ﬂew from Arkansas to Virginia weekly to teach a special undergraduate seminar on health care policy, ﬁnances and politics. Kumpuris, named

one of six health policy fellows in 2001 by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, volunteered his time for the sought-after course. His talk, “The Shared
Experience,” will include reﬂections on W&L, where Kumpuris has actively served on the alumni advisory board of the University’s Shepherd Program
for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability. Convocation welcomed 461 freshmen to campus.

Returning students face theft on-campus and off

Freshman’s dorm room broken into and several items were stolen; students’ local storage units ransacked this summer

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

The start of the school year
brought discoveries of theft for
many W&L undergraduates. Stor-
age units and dorm rooms have
been pilfered during the summer or
orientation week.

.-V) Several students met with
losses after Frankie’s Storage on
Lee Highway was ransacked this
summer. The robbery went unno-
ticed until students returned to

claim their belongings, but best
guesses place the incident in
August.

Caitlin WalkerLieb ’07 at-
rived to discover that the stor-
age unit she shared with Amy
Nunez ’07 had been pilfered.
The two lost expensive elec-
tronics, such as a television and
printer, and irreplaceable per-
sonal items, such as photo-
graphs, clothing, and sorority
heirlooms. While it is estimated
that the thief or thieves gained

the only items taken -were
a cellular phone and

approximately 10 short-
sleeved polo shirts.

access to between ten and ﬁfteen
bins, the actual number may
never be known. According to
Frarrkie’s, it is impossible to tell
the difference between an empty
storage unit and one that has had

its lock cut off. After several
robberies in recent years, the
facility installed security carn-
eras last week.

Theft is already present
within W&L boundaries as
well. When Andrew McWay
’O8 returned from a pre-orien-
tation trip, he found his be-
longings missing and his Baker
dorm room in disarray. A dis-
placed window screen sug-
gested that the burglar climbed
through the first-ﬂoor window

to reach McWay’s belongings.
McWay was disappointed at
starting off the school year this
way at a university that “takes
such great pride in its campus
security and honor system.”

Strangely enough, the thief
never touched the laptop com-
puter or iPod music player left
in the room. According to
McWay, the only items taken
were a cellular phone and ap—
proximately l0 short-sleeved
polo shirts.

Students claim W&L needs ACIDA

Four undergraduate men attended last weeks infonnational meeting and share their reasons for considering this fraternity

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—lN—CHlEF

Four Washington and Lee
men attended Alpha Phi Alpha’s
information session last Wednes-
day evening.

Representatives from James
Madison University and Univer-
sity of Virginia’s Alpha Phi Alpha
chapters attended the meeting to
share their experience as broth-
ers. Alpha Phi Alpha, “offers so
many beneﬁts that are so neces-
sary for men of color,” said
Michael McPheeters, a first—year
law student and an Alpha Phi Al-
pha brother.

Derin Harrison, ‘07 and An-
drew Elliot, ’07 attended the meet-

ing and are considering be-
coming Alphas.

According to Dean

Tammy Futrell, chapter before,
“We are not creating anything
new, just re-es-
tablishing a rela-
tionship,” she
said.

Alpha Phi

fraternities are a little differ-

ent because they are not a

‘part of the IFC,” she said.
These men argue that

Washington and Lee’s cam-

./

The campus still
displays its ignorance
of the challenges

pus could beneﬁt from an Alpha
Phi Alpha chapter.

“At the very least, Alpha should
come to increase diversity and
cultural awareness,” said Derin
Harrison, “Too
many of the Wash-
ington and Lee
community have
too little contact

Alpha does not _ withthose outside
have to seek In— faced by Afr1C3»ﬂ' of their socio—eco-
ter—Fraternity Americans nomic back-.
Council ap— ground.”

proval, “Black Andrew Elliot,

said he wants an Alpha chapter
on campus in order to offer stu-
dents more of a choice.

“A number of perspectives
that come to visit W&L ask each

year whether or not W&L has
a historically black fraternity,
or sorority for that matter,”
Elliot said, “Having a histori-
cally black fraternity would
only help W&L’s continuous
mission to recruit minorities.”

Harrison and Elliot both
say that Alpha can help to
correct injustices faced by mi-
norities.

“The campus still dis-
plays its ignorance of the
challenges faced by African-
Americans or other minority
groups. One simple reason is
that W&L’s campus creates
some of these injustices con-
stantly year after year,” Elliot
said.

According to Harrison, Alpha
offers a different Greek experience.
“To one who is not really into the
frat life, all of the frats are the same.
The only frat houses I know the
locations of are ones who did more
than just mixers and pre-garne carn-
pus events. I would like to have a
fraternity, not just for students of
color, but for students who don’t
drink as well,” he said.

Elliot said he is drawn to
Alpha’s special history.

“If I choose Alpha, it would
be because of the rich history,
the extensive connections, and
the brotherhood the fraternity ex-
udes and possesses. I feel these
characteristics will mix well with
W&L’s great qualities,” he said.

MONDAY, SEEIEMBER13, 2004

Traveller

Improves
service

CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Traveller began mak-
ing Lexington rounds last
Friday night after an ab-
sence over orientation
week. Changes have been
made over the summer to
improve on the old system.

“We are exited to be
able to announce new and
upgraded service,” said
Jeb Brooks, Student Coor-
dinator of the Traveller
Committee.

Brooks went on to say
that there would be shorter
wait times and more re-
sponsive dispatchers and
drivers for Traveller Dis-
patch.

Traveller is now sepa-
rated into two services,
Traveller Express and Trav-
eller Dispatch. Traveller
Express is keeping the
same in-town route as last
year, but the transporta-
tion means will be differ-
ent.

This year, on Wednes-
day, Friday, and Saturday
nights from 10 p.m. until 2
a.m., Mini-buses with pro-
fessional drivers from
Charlottesville will pick
students up at the black
Traveller benches.

The mini—buses can
hold more people than the
athletic vans previously
used. Five mini—buses will
travel the route. Route
maps are posted on cam-
pus and are available on-
line at traveller.wlu.edu.

Traveller Dispatch
runs seven nights a week
from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m.
There are now three Trav-
eller owned vehicles, two
cars and a mini-van, so vol-
unteers will no longer have
to donate the use of their
personal cars.

The phone number for
Traveller has remained the
same. Call extension 8900
and a Traveller vehicle will
be sent to you anywhere
in the area and will take
you wherever you need to
go in the area.

“I think the students
last year did an amazing
job of listening to their fel-
low students in redesign-
ing the program to better
meet current needs,” said
Dawn Watkins, Dean of
Students.

Student reaction to
Traveller’s changes has
been positive.

“It will aide the safety
of students because they
will be riding in actual
buses, not packed like sar-
dines in vans ‘that were
built during the Nixon ad-
ministration,” said junior
Drew Davenport.

“It only works if ev-
eryone contributes,” said
Brooks. Student organiza-
tions that receive Execu-
tive Committee funding will
be asked throughout the
year to drive for Traveller
Dispatch. Campus groups
will only have to drive
once during the academic
year.

If there are any questions
or comments about
Traveller ’s services or if you
would like to volunteer to
drive, Contact Brooks at
brooksj@wlu.edu.

 

    
 

JAMES G. L.EYB'uHN LIBRARN
PAGE 2*vASHtNG{l.’ON 81  i_,lNt'dE.R:%lT\

L I

 

 

SEP I 4 zone

University Commons welcomes new staff members

New blood, Including W&L grad, replaces Glassman, Jacobs in student life offices

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRiTER

The 2004-2005 academic year at Washington and Lee
kicked off last week with a number of new faces in the faculty and
administration. President Burish’s “Welcome” email to students
has introduced a number of new names
replacing those with which we were quite
familiar. Matt Jacobs, Theresa Glassman, and
Buddy Atkins can no longer be found in the
Personnel Directory. All three of their
positions have direct relations to an
administration area dubbed “student life.” ,

Todd Tate is the new director of
Student Activities and Greek Life. His
previous administration experience involves
serving as the Director of Student
Organizations and Programs at Drexel
University. Mr. Tate also has extensive
experience with Greek life. As an
undergraduate at SUNY Brockpoart, he was a
founding brother of the Phi Sigma Chi
Chapter of Alpha Chi Rho National Fraternity
at SUNY Brockport, and also was the
Founding President of the Interfratemity
Council. Mr. Tate was also the University
Advisor to the Alpha Delta Epsilon Sorority
at SUNY Geneseo. Mr. Tate was attracted to
Washington and Lee because of its
reputation and Honor System. When asked
about specific plans for the Student Life Administration’s first
year, the new director replies: “Our Theme is Collaboration and
Communication. We need to listen and work with the appropriate
stakeholders within the University community. We are working in

HEAD HoNcHo.
Activities and Greek Life Director Todd
Tate.

 

New

3 areas; to ﬁnalize programming sponsored by the University
Commons & Student Activities, speciﬁcally developing
collaboration with others in the University community, Student
organizations, i.e. SAB, to determine where we can support their
efforts and with the Greek community to
provide a road map for students, faculty,
administrators, headquarters and loyal alumni
in the areas of self
governance, social
responsibility, facilities,
ﬁnancial management,
perception, membership
development, leadership
development and
assessment.”

The new Assistant
Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life,
Kristen Powell, graduated
from Washington and Lee
in 2000. Mrs. Powell was
a Robert E. Lee Scholar
and graduated Magna
Cum Laude. As for Greek
life, Mrs. Powell explains:
“I was active in my
sorority, I was an ofﬁcer,

attended a National
Conference, and served on the Panhellenic
Housing Committee. I spent four years on this
Committee working to select the architects for
the Sorority Houses, develop and ﬁnalize exterior plans, and
develop and ﬁnalize the interior decorating scheme.” After
graduation, Mrs. Powell married a VMI cadet, Jim Powell ’00, and
lived in Texas for three years where she worked for Young Life, a

Student Assistant Director.

 

TRIUMPHANT RETURN. . e _ _
Powell <00 assumes her dream job as and relationships. She 1S also comrrutted to

Student Aetivities and Greek Life celebrating student success through “End of

non—proﬁt Christian outreach ministry to teenagers. But when her
husband had since found a management position with Young Life
in Rockbridge County, Mrs. Powell explains: “I had often remarked
that if we ever moved back to Lexington, my dream job was to
work at W&L as the Advisor to Sorority
Women. Needless to say, I’m pretty excited
about things have turned out.”
The ﬁnal missing figure in this game of

Guess Who‘? is Marguerite (Margo)
McClinton, W&L’s new Director of the Elrod
University Commons and Campus Activities.
Ms. McClinton has had various experiences in
college administration, including serving as a
Minority Admissions Coordinator at Harvard
Graduate School of Education, as a Residential
College Director at Washington University, and
most recently Ms. McClinton served as the
Associate Director of the Hardee Center for
Women in Higher Education. Ms. McClinton,
as new Director of the Commons and Campus
Activities, is committed to: “building positive
relationships with students, developing a
successful club sports program, and the
Kristen cultivation of student involvement, leadership,

Year Recognition of all groups.” At the moment,

Ms. McClinton is focusing on an International
Film Festival to be held at the Elrod Commons Theater, from
September 17th —l9th; an event for which she hopes will be a large
student turnout (*reference to article covering the festival*).

While Ms. McClinton does not have a signiﬁcant

involvement with Greek life at W&L, she was a member of the
Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority at Emory University, where she held
various officer positions including Chapter Secretary and President.

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 

3%

«a.

E

Irsylni

    

“Why do they need to “lt’s nice to have that
option...Tliere’s another

avenue to take.”
-Beth Darnmlash ‘06

be separate?”
-Nicole Menulo ‘08

,»  
MONDAY, SEPFERMBER 13, 2004 

K
I

Does Traveller really canter through campus? 

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—IN—CI-IIEF

Local legend has it that General Lee’s warhorse, Traveller,
still roams through campus. Traveller outlived his master but
dwelt in the stable attached to the
Lee House during Lee’s time in Lex-
ington. Traveller shared the Lee
House stable with another horse,
Lucy Long.

“The story is that Traveller’s
ghost has been seen running
through Washington and Lee, so by
tradition the stable doors have
been leftopen so he can come and
go as he pleases,” said Shana *

 

past the stable to explain the historic legend.

This school year, however, the front doors to the stable
have been tied shut.

“We are painting the doors and, with all the rain, trying
to get or keep them dry,” said
Scott Beebe, head of the Physical
Plant. “They will be open real
soon.”

At press time, the doors
were shut once again.

Physical Plant workers made
sure to respect 150 years of his-
tory. “We did leave the back door
open so Traveller could come and
go,” Beebe said.

Pardue of Lexington Carriage Com-
pany.

Mrs. Lee is rumored to have
been asuperstitious woman, and the
stable doors were originally left
open at her request.

The Lexington Carriage Company offers tours of historic
Lexington, and shares this myth of Traveller with its tour
groups. Many university tour guides bring groups of visitors

remain open. .

 

“Diversity at W&L is

‘‘If they want it, go

coming a long way and for it. lt’s not like the
I think this will help.” parties will be racially
-David Kronenfeld ‘07 divided”
' -John Kim ‘07

WE’LL KEEP THE LIGHT ON. Tradition demands that the
doors to Traveller’s former stable, the garage of Lee House,

No Traveller sightings have
been reported to the Phi.

The doors to Traveller’s
stable are now painted a bright
teal.

Fact or Fiction is going to be a regular feature in the Ring-tum Phi
this year: If you have heard a campus myth or local legend that you
would like the Phi to investigate email phi@wlu.edu or call ext.
4060.

Nabors
Service

League
Do It!

Come work for the only paper on campus with
layout, ethics, and no debt.

The REAL independent Newspaper
Meetings at 5:15 at .
Third ﬂoor, University Commons

MAKE YOUR OWN HOURS

All you do is sell the Hawaiian Tropic Break
2005 Travel Program Represent an American
Express “Student Travel" Company Guaranteed
Highest Commission, Free Trips 81 Great for
Resume Your pay equals your efforts AMERICAN
STUDENT Vacations I-800-336-2260

www americanstudentinfo

STRINGED
INSTRUMENT
Expert Repair & Set-

Guitars &Basses
Acoustic &Electrlc

 

ReferencesAvailable
Local Service/Will Pick Up & Deliver!
LEO LORENZONI

Luthier 540.258.14.01

..
gm‘

 



4 .

 

MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 13, 2004

O

F

Siiilli\l3F?ﬁDITORIAL

Botox Leybum Library

Leybum Library needs a
facelift. Come on, it’s approaching 30
and it just needs some work. The Phi
thinks these changes need to be made

and soon:

0 More natural lighting, so
students don’t snooze through
their studies.

0 New carpet, not only is the old
stuff putrid—looking, but it
smells wretched.

0 New paint, those colors
weren’t ever a good idea————not
even in the 70’s.

0 New upholstered chairs.
There are stains, who knows
what has happened on those
old ratty things. To cut costs,
take furniture out of the
Commons— no one uses it

anyway.

0 More computers, it is the
twenty—first century.

0 Carrolls: a student’s home
away from home, and we
deserve more than those little
wooden chairs.

0 What is with Northern
Auditorium? That red and
green plaid carpet is just

bizarre

0 Renumbering the ﬂoors in
some logical, numerical order
(and getting rid of this “main”
ﬂoor business) would be
extraordinarily helpful.

0 Laptop drop-off. No one
wants to leave their precious
data alone while they’re in
class or at lunch. The library
should offer a safe place to
leave laptops for a short time.

These additions would make
everyone’s study time much more
pleasant. And Leybum could turn

30 in style.

   

“This is the part of the price we pay, I guess,

te of the Week

forliving in paradise.”

~Govemor of Florida, J eb Bush, speaking
to residents over television before Frances hit.

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir:

 PHI

Erin Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

Sarah Murray

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge

Kate Zawyrucha
Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis

David Seifert
Rob Rain
Stephen Lipscomb

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
Tlw Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarilyreflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

 HI.

 

("AiEYANDEizsoN
OPINIONS EDHOR

FMAlI:ANDERSONC@WlUJ3l)lJ

N

 

PAGE 3

Getting through the transitions of college life

Coming back to Lexington after the summer, things looked the same
but yet something, imperceptibly, had changed. I was no longer a fresh-
man. I could see the new wave filing into Lee Chapel in their nicest suits
and sundresses, and already felt surprisingly detached from them con-
sidering it had been me one short year ago. As they say, a lot can change
in a year. You never really understand the clichés until you are old enough
or wise enough, and then you are struck by the simple truth of them.

Only recently, for example, have I fully understood why on the news
after the death of a teenager or child people seem to
tearfully lament most the fact that the child will never
get to realize their dreams, start a family, or live a full
life. When we were children, our dreams were pure and
relevant yet as variable as a child’s mood. You know
how it is: one year they want to be a princess, the next a female

Erninem.

But every year I get closer to graduating and truly setting out on my
own, building a life for myself, I understand how invested I am in my
dreams. The thought of losing those experiences, or missing out on the
things I’ve always wanted, is a disheartening one.

I’ve begun to think of life as a series of transitions. That’s part of
the reason it can be hard at times, yet ultimately rewarding. First, there is
childhood which is existence without responsibility or too many cares.
Then the difficult teenage years set in and soon enough you’re ready to
leave the home you’ve known for eighteen years. College is a big transi-
tion, and an important one. Every person handles it differently.

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘07_

Some throw themselves into the social scene and try to get as
much fun squeezed into four years as possible, others buckle down
and work. The latter are preparing for or prematurely entering the
next stage: terror at the idea that in a year or two you have to find a
job (or get into/pay for grad school,) move somewhere in this huge
country (because there aren’t enoughjobs for all of us in Lexington,)
and become a legitimate adult and decision maker.

Every once in a while, I find it helpful to take stock of things, re-
evaluate my goals and scary as it is, what I’m doing with
my life. (Why I chose this exact point in time is beyond
me.) Basically, you have to periodically ask yourself what
you want out of college.

In my experience, with a year behind me, I have en-
joyed the new and exciting aspects of college life and

independence. I have soul—searched, I have made amazing friends

and sisters, and joined organizations where I could pursue my inter-
ests. Mostly, I am excited about my next three years; all the things I
can improve on and the memories I will make. Transitions are excit-
ing, and they are hard, but it will all be worthwhile if you make some
true friends to help you along the way and get involved with things
that you are passionate about.

So, to make a long story short, welcome back to a new year at
Washington and Lee. I extend an extra special welcome to freshmen.
Get what you want out of this year, have fun but still open a few
books, andlyou will get the best of what college has to offer.

The Republican National Convention took
place in New York two weeks ago. Here are some of
this Republican’s favorite humorous and substan-
tive quotes from the week.

Rudy Guliani: .
At the time, we believed we would be attacked many
more times that day and in the days that followed.
S p o n t a n e —
ously, I
grabbed the
arm of then
Police Com-
missioner Bernard Kerik and said to Bernie, “Thank
God George Bush is our President.”

And I say it again tonight, “Thank God George
Bush is our President.”

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MOUTEVELIS ‘06

Maybe this explains John Edwards’ need for two
Americas —— one where John Kerry can vote for
something and another where he can vote against
the same thing.

Senator John McCain:
Our choice wasn’t between a benign status quo
End the bloodshed of war. It was between war and

graver threat. Don’t let anyone tell you other-
wise. Not our critics abroad. Not our political op-
ponents. And certainly not a disingenuous ﬁlm
maker who would have us believe that Saddam’s
Iraq was an oasis of peace when in fact it was a
place of indescribable cruelty, torture chambers,
mass graves and prisons that destroyed the lives
of the small children held inside their walls.

Republican wit and wisdom takes ove New Yor

Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger:
To those critics who are so pessimistic about our
economy, I say: “Don’t be economic girlie men!”

Our young men and women in uniform do not be-
lieve there are two Americas! They believe we are
one America and they are ﬁghting for it! We are one
America —— and President Bush is defending it with
all his heart and soul!

Senator Zell Miller:

Never in the history of the world has any soldier
sacriﬁced more for the freedom and liberty of total
strangers than the American soldier. And, our sol-
diers don’t just give freedom abroad, they preserve
it for us here at home.

- This is the man who wants to be the Commander
in Chief of our U.S. Armed Forces? U.S. forces
armed with what? Spitballs?

V1ce—President Dick Cheney:

People tell me that Senator Edwards got picked for
his good looks, his sex appeal, and his great hair. I
say to them, “How do you think I got the job?”

The fanatics who killed some 3,000 of our fellow
Americans may have thought they could attack us
with impunity because terrorists had done so pre-
viously. But if the killers of Sept. 11 thought we had
lost the will to defend our freedom, they did not
know America and they did not know George W.
Bush.

    

Pl-IOVTCOURTESY or DESERETNEWSDOM

AHNOLD. The Govemator was one of many to
speak at the RNC.

President George W. Bush:

People sometimes have to correct my English —— I
knew I had a problem when Arnold Schwarzenegger
started doing it{

This young century will be liberty’s century. By
promoting liberty abroad, we will build a safer
world. By encouraging liberty at home, we will build
a more hopeful America. Like generations before
us, we have a calling from beyond the stars to
stand for freedom. This is the everlasting dream of
America — and tonight, in this place, that dream is
renewed.

Letter to the Editor

Dear Editor,

Your recent article, “Potato man offers
‘Intro to Parties 101,”’ made us feel slightly
bipolar in our response. While we praise
Marshall Rule for his wisdom about class,
the P word, and his lesson on moderation,
we still feel his article left much to be de-
sired in its diatribe against independents.

First, we are all independents and so are
some of our friends, so the article slammed
us like Alabama moonshine. And we are
happy being independents. This is because
we, contrary to popular belief, DO have a
social life. Yes, we occasionally stay in and
have sober movie nights, but we also know
our way around a beer pong table and how
to weave our way to the keg at a crowded
frat house. We are not alone. There are
tons of “Indies” at W&L who wake up w.ith
massive “headaches.”

As a general statement of our beliefs,
we do not have anything against Greek life.
We think both Greeks and Independents are
wonderful. We just used that wonderful
sense of free choice and decided that being
Greek wasn’t for us. However, let me quote,

“By the time you have graduated you will
realize it’s not what srat you were in, but
rather if you enjoyed your four years here.
And that you can do no matter what Greek
organization you joined.” While the con-
cept of being happy agrees with us, the pref-
ace that you must be in a Greek organiza-
tion to be happy does not. We are happy
here (and we are not expecting that to
change) yet we also have no plans to join a
Greek organization-we don’t see this as a
requirement.

Now, for our party standing. The
reason we are #2 is that the Princeton Re-
view is based on student surveys. We very
well may party more than SUNY at Albany -
it’s just that we are proud of other things
besides our party skills. This is what we do
not have in common with our Albany breth-
ren. If you check other non—party related
lists, W&L ranks for Professors Bring Ma-
terial to Life, Beautiful Campus, Happy Stu-
dents, etc. We are blissful, well-adjusted
students that are proud of our academic
prowess as well as how fast our frat boys
can down a garbage can full of grain (ed-
Aren’t we all).

SUNY at Albany has nothing on us.
Their Best 357 rankings read like a badly
produced horror ﬂick - Their Students (Al-
most) Never Study, Long Lines and Red
Tape, Campus is Tiny, Unsightly, or Both,
Dorms Like Dungeons, Is it Food?, Least
Happy Students, and the list goes on. What
else did they have to write in their student
surveys besides their land records at chug-
ging Natty Light?

So you see, having #2 and all the rest
should make us pretty damn proud.

In future, we implore you to turn your
blame on other people who actually deserve
it. Or, become a real journalist, seek out
the independents, and interview/live in
their shoes for a night. Just don’t come
knocking on our door—look for us at the
loudest basement band and the stocked bar.

Sincerely,

Steph Wiechmann ’07
Sheryl Silvers ’07
Kristine Holda ’06
Theresa Dougherty ’07

Better-
14%

  Worse-
20%

49 students pol/ed. Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Phi Quick Poll

“In your opinion, is W/aslzingtorr and Lee better, Worse, or the same as it was

one year ago?”

Same-
41%

Not Sure-
24%

 

 

 

    

PAGE 4



MONDAY, SEIVIEMBER 13, 2004 .

Someone I’m not- People who change to fit the University

Has anyone out there ever
noticed that this place has an
enormous power to change
people? Aside from the Class
of 2008, we’ve all seen that one
freshman, right? You know, the
one who claims to have been a
big drinker in high school, and
starts trying to down x amount
of vodka, whiskey, what have
you? And then it becomes
plainly obvious that the fresh-
man either didn’t drink in high
school, or only had the occa-
sional beer. By the time this
person has left W&L, they’ve
probably come to see alcohol
as not just a
form of enter-
tainment, but a
way of life. It’s
how they tried
to fit in, like the New Yorker
who unsuccessfully tries to
adopt a southern accent.

Or take the case of the girl
who comes in her freshman
year and becomes great friends
with the other girls on her hall.
A seemingly unbreakable bond
is created. Then, rush comes
and goes, and some girls end
up in one sorority, higher up
on the dubious social pecking
order, and some lower. In a lot
of cases, disdain, resentment,
and a false acceptance of the
“truth” of the enmity they’re
supposed to feel for one an-
other take over, and ruin the
friendship. I never cease to be
astonished by the sheer num-
ber of freshmen here of both
genders who place paramount
importance on the particular
frat or srat that they get into.
Not only that, but the sheer in-
tensity of the emotions when

people find out the results of

Rush are surprising. One girll
knew from the Class of 2007
last year cried when she had
to ‘settle’ for what she called a
‘second—rate’ sorority, and I
suspect this scene plays itself
out quite a few times each year.

On the ﬂip side of the coin,
let’s take two roommates, guys
who hunker down in one of
those corner dorms at Graham-

Lees, or something. They be-
come best of friends through
sharing the fun and drama in-
herent to any freshman year.
Then, once again, rush comes
and goes. One ends up in
fraternity x, the other, in fra-
ternity x’s hated rival frat. A
cold silence falls over their
double room, and they start
spending less and less time
with each other while spend-
ing more and more time with
their brothers. By the time
their sophomore year comes,
they’ll probably only speak
to each other rarely, and for-

mally at

MODERATE’S Musmos ‘hat-
Please un-
CALEYANpERsoN‘06 derstand,
before you
c o m p o s e your scath-

ing, brilliantly-worded letters
to the editor, that this is not
an attack on the alcohol cul-
ture of W&L, nor is it an at-
tack on the Greek system, as
we’ve had quite enough of
those in the past year alone.
There are plenty of people
who do not fall for the traps
mentioned above, and these
factors that change people
can indeed change them for
the better. That’s what col-
lege is supposed to do. No
one is the same when they
leave here as they were when
they came in. But there is a
difference between desirable
change and non-desirable
change. Changing your per-
sona from an uncertain, na-
ive high school graduate to a
confident, intelligent college
student is one thing, chang-
ing into a heavy drinker who
parties until 5 four times a
week just because everyone
else does is something else
entirely.

It just seems that enor-
mous peer pressure and a de-
sire to fit in lead people into
far too, many bad decisions
at this University, leaving
aside the exception that many
shy partyphobes have been
broken in by their presence

at the University. Sometimes,
when I read the reports from
last year’s frat investigations,
or when I hear the rumors of
what REALLY happened on
such-and—such a night, I
wonder what could possibly
drive someone to want en-

whatever fraternity it is, but
that can be done without hu-
miliation or quasi-torture, and
really, the appreciation gained
is not one of brotherhood or
friendship, it’s a sort of tribal
pride in having mutually en-
dured the same hazing rituals.

plenty of people who put their
friends first, and their Greek
affiliation second. But it
seems like too many do not.
Too many forsake friend-
ship, activities they like, and
even class in the name of
making sure they fit in.

your social life here. If you
become someone you’re not
for the sake of fitting in,
you’ll be left with next to
nothing once you graduate.

So best of luck to you,
noble freshmen of the class
of 2008. You made a won-

 

X»-mm «aw-m«»,..«.,i-...» ¢V"l1b‘
 .,«.«~.«x «

 

CARTOON BY JERRY GAO

 

trance to a frat so badly that
they’d not only put up with
such nonsense, they’d be en-
thusiastic about it. It’s sup-
posed to be a brotherhood,
not the Citadel. It IS true that
it makes the pledges, sorry,
new members more apprecia-
tive of their acceptance into

Once again, this is not ev-
eryone. There are plenty of
fraternities and sororities that

are truly out to be there for,

their brothers and sisters.
There are plenty of people who
actually gain character from
their exposure to alcohol here,
rather than lose it. There are

; is on«“fin.ding,
...to...“inv.entj.ng.7’

Part of college is, of
course, finding out who you
are. But the emphasis there
” as. opposed
Do not let
Washington & Lee‘ dictate to
you who you must be, be-
cause there are a ton of
things more important‘ than

derful choice in coming

here, but while you explore _ . V

the University and try to
find your niche, lookqaround
you, Make sure that you’re
someone unique. K

E—mail me at
Andersonc @ wlu.edu

paradise.

hazed.

Ups and Downs

Commons- 1‘ Freshmen and sophomores are impressed. I take back what I
said last year. In an ironic reversal, they tore down a parking lot and put up

Class of 2006- 3, Will go down as the last class in W&L history to really be

Women’s V-Ball— ¢——> A disappointing loss in the Invitational, but these
ladies are just now shaking off the rust. Watch out when they get started.
Football- 4» Despite the naysayers, I’m from San Diego, and I know bad
football when I see it. These guys are a lot better than their first game
indicates. Besides, there’s the home opener curse (tm) to consider.
Oprah- +-9 Does anyone else find the contrast of W&L + Oprah very
strange? At least she didn’t mountainboard and churn apple butter.
Wal-Mart— 1‘ Has found SEVERAL employees younger than 60.
Soccer, Men’s and Women’s- 0-» So very, very close.

Calyx-
travesty.

Traveller- T New changes bump up this organization from AAA to the

Major Leagues.

Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson gives you his take on what rose, what tell, and what stayed about the same this week at W&L.

Don Tequila’s- T Remains the best (only) Mexican food in town. Don’t
EVEN say Taco Bell. Don’t even think it.

a

f Classy cover, solid content means recovery from last year’s

Class of 2008- f Higher SATs/Grades than ever before, and they seemed to
move in in half the time that my class did. And that, of course, is the real
measure of any W&L freshman class.
Weather- 1 Pretty bad, but my sympathies go out to the Floridians at W&L,
as well as any Caribbean residents.

E-mailAndersonc@w1u.edu with comments/questions

E _

Write for
Phi Opinions

Andersonc@wlu.edu

<l>

mail

Visit Sweet Things
They are delicious

    

'}$tuLlr:|1L W1‘-=:1!1klr.T§]ll‘]P I.‘

$99‘

l.’¢:.1' Semester

 

1m'».cxn.I«5ime Im.tioml.com

It’s time to exercise something
other than your mind.

Firnllpgaplae no wade outdta: ﬁuuml ardent:
bodgetatd a.b.Iq.- student dtedde 0.Ir.vesis3o-
mi-nulteﬁma omnonsem: wzightloasand all
dnesuppootyw
nud no adtie-we
wuwt

Curve;

I 1- )1-.I 2l.I|l‘1!'V‘. -nut-a-ilv,‘

I’ 5419} 454-5545
780 N Lee Hwy
Lexlngbcm. "v'ﬁL2445U

Ger em bcaﬁotu anaiﬁiiik
'rL..a...s.,ut,.u_L..u,L.d.Jw.|-h.1AJJ1‘_'.‘.§.-,.o+u.,|..a.. Mum .u ..,..|.-,...J....|

Virginia Capital Semester

Make the most of your spring semester with an
exciting internship, challenging college courses,
interesting guest speakers and all the drama of

Virginia politics.

Experience Wginias capital city during the
excitement of a legislative session while continuing
your studies on a full-time basis through course
work at Virginia Commonwealth University — and
earn a $1,000 internship stipend.

/‘

For more information and application:
0 http://www.vcu.edu/capitalsemester;
0 Virginia Capital Semester, L. Douglas Wilder

School of Government and Public Affairs,

P.O. Box 842028, Virginia Commonwealth

University, Richmond, VA 23284-2028, or
0 Contact Professor Ralph Hambrick at

l804l 828-8053, or vac:-3pitalsein@vcu.edu.

o Application deadline is Oct. 1, 2004.

an equal oppnrtuniv/allinnalive action universﬂy

Commoriweal

Un‘iv,ersity

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting specialty Shop
273 Raplline Road
Raphlne, VA 24472
s4o34es22o - 1-8'77-Nfl‘-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of lmic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Call for workshop & ms lntonmtlon.
Halfway between Lexington and Stalmlon
Route 606. Raphine ma. rim-d ma working

farm that afar: "U-PICA ' apporaaniriesfor fmh
fruit when in season.

mrmomamslmmm

On I-81 /I-64 at exit 205. Ranhinr. 4nu'le.t west on 1 ‘

'Il1es-Sat10:00-5:00,Weduntil8:00 i

 

smgm THE Rl§\‘=G-TUMl)l~-ll
mm m P O R‘ I 'S 8
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004 PAGE 5
‘ Vllbllt tk th'd 01148 d fff
O 0 1 Q Q
‘( .
place at W &L Invitationa prevents season opening win
strike from junior quarterback Greg Tweardy (Betliel
A BY SARAH BLOOM W&L SPORTS RELEASE Park, Pa./Bethel Park) to junior wide receiver Clark 1
4 STAFF WMTER Ker-isinger (Columbia, S.C./Oakwood) with 1:42 re-
maimng. The PAT attempt failed producing the fi-
. . ALFRED, N.Y. —— The Washington and Lee rial score.
and Il::eJI:l‘1,:_]:iat:,1 ttI:?SInsa:a:V:1:l‘:e::ivt:a:1:;l1gt0£ football team held Alfred University to just 267 W&L was led by Tweardy, who completed 17-
. . P . . pe yards of total offense, but gained just 148 yards of-42 passes for 157 yards, one touchdown and
‘ agamst the Generals mthe 2004 W&L Inv1.tat1°nal' itself in falling to the Saxons 23-8 on Saturday two interceptions. Senior wide receiver Taylor
1‘ ' After only a prﬁscason warm-up to get adjusted to afternoon in Alfred, N.Y. Callaharn (Atlanta, Ga./McDonogh) caught six

 

  

CHAi)KiEwiErDE]oNGE

a new team, the Generals left the competition win-
ning the consolation bracket. ODAC regulations
prevented the team from training together as early
as some of the other competing teams.

“Coach [Bryan Snyder] does a fabulous job of
making sure that we get some challenging teams to
appear so that we are pushed to our limits,” voiced
sophomore Ashley Hurt. “We start our season
about a week and a half after the teams we com-
peted against, so our first matches are typically
against people who have already been competing
for a few weeks.”

Despite this disadvantage, the Generals still
claimed the third place position. Individually, Jun-
iors Christine Gladysz and Susan Gaillard were
named to the all-tournament team for Washington
and Lee.

On day one of the tournament, the Generals
started off strong, defeating Catholic 30-17, 30-21,
and 30-20. Senior Captain Emily Wolfmg lead the
Generals with 19 kills and 12 digs. Hurt and juniors
Laura Byme and Gladysz also scored big for the
team.

The next match against Christopher Newport,
however, did not end favorably for the Generals.
The Captains defeated the Generals 5-2. This time
Hurt set the tempo for the Generals with 18 kills and
10 digs. Wolfmg again helped lead the charge with
13 kills and 14 digs. Gladysz followed suit, with 42
assists and 12 digs.

Day two very much resembled day one.
Frostburg State defeated the Generals 27-30, 24-30,
30-25, and 22-30. Then, the Generals rebounded to
win against Catholic in the consolation game.

SPIKE. A General goes for a spike during the W&L
Invitational. The team ended up ﬁnishing in third
place.

of the victory. “It was just hard because these
were our first matches and they don’t reﬂect where
we will be at the end of the season.”
The girls look forward to their next chance to
compete against Mary Washington on Thursday.
“After this next week of practice, we’re going
to be ready to go,” said Edmonson. “Our goals are

we have a lot of expectations
coming into other tourna-
ments this year,” said Hurt of
the loss. “We want to win as

4. Roanoke
5. Lynchburg
6. Emory & Henry
7. Eastern Mennonite

Against Frostburg State, Wolﬁng again lead to cut down on unforced and communication er-
the Generals in scoring and rors and mostly we’re going
Gaillard and Gladysz were to have fun and play with
right behind her to carry the / ,\ heart.”
V . . ‘ team. Unfortimately, this was 2004 ODAC Women S
.    not enough to push the Gen-   
- erals ahead of Frostburg. 1. Washington & Lee
' “Although we didn’t 2_ Bridgewater
play as well as we were hop- 3_ Rando|ph_MaCon
4'» ing, the year is young, and

The Generals (0-1) got on the board first
when an Alfred punt snap
went out of the back of the
end zone with 12:32 remain-
ing in the first quarter. W&L
held the lead until Alfred’s
Chris Reynolds nailed a 30-
yard ﬁeld goal to make the
score 3-2 with 4:38 remain-
ing in the opening period.
Reynolds booted two more
field goals in the second
quarter, one of 26 yards and
another from 31 yards to

2004 ODAC Football
Preseason Poll
1. Bridgewater
2. Harnpden-Sydney
3. Emory & Henry

4. Catholic
5. Randolph-Macon
6. Washington & Lee 1
6. Guilford (tie)

 

passes for 75 yards, while junior running back
Michael Lackett (Allenwood,
N.J./Wall Township) carrie d
18 times for 32 yards. Senior
linebacker Lloyd Wilson
(Austin, Texas/Stephen F.
Austin) led the defense with
nine tackles. Sophomore line-
backer Robert Foster
(Brentwood, Tenn./Mont-
gomery Bell) notched four
tackles, a sack and an inter-
ception.

Alfred was led by

give the Saxons (1-0) a 9-2
halftime edge.

After a scoreless third quarter, the Saxons
scored the game’s first touchdown as Chaz Bruce
scored on a 31-yard run with 14:30 remaining.
Bruce then improved the lead to 23-2 on a 40-
yard touchdown run with 7:03 remaining, before
the Generals answered on a 12-yard touchdown

Bruce’s 86 yards and two
touchdowns on 20 carries.
Quarterback Ron Duliba completed 1 1-of-25 passes
for 156 yards and one interception, while Nicholas
Gatto paced the Saxon defense with eight tackles
and three of Alfred’s seven sacks.

Washington and Lee returns to action on Sat-

. urday as it hosts Sewanee for a 1:00 pm contest.

 

every W&L team does.” - - -
The team bounced back, 8' V”-9g"1_|:a Izvegleyan
however, to defeat Catholic ' ul or I
in the consolation round. 10- R‘M Woman 5
_, Wolfmg, Gaillard, Hurt, and 11. Sweet Briar
' ' Gladysz teamed up to bring 12_ |-|o||in5
the Generals to victory. To-
gether, the girls claimed 36 K J -' . .
kills, 35 digs, and 40 assists CHAD KIEWIET DEJONGE / THE RUVG-’IUMPHI
A “We definitely played better at the end of the SERVICE. The men’s tennis team hosted Davidson, George Mason, and James Madison in the W&L Fall
tournament,” said sophomore Lauren Edmonson Classic this past weekend as a fall warmup. ‘
I I
.4.
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITh|S   SponsllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
 Wednesday
‘ii ° M Soccer vs. Southern
Virginia--4
A ° W Soccer at Randolph-
Macon Womens’——4
A.
" The A ti e Join Phi S ortsl A"A"A'”‘ ”°W"
ri qu 1 p .
WIRE LESS INTE RN ET
4,,  | spring Break 2005 in Downtown Lexington
V 1 Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now I
. " '   60- I I
  Lee H| hwa hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
g . Y Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or H S
1 College Square Shopping Center www_s,st,a.,e._c.,m_ > IGH PEED
D PORTABLE
4°'°°° 5‘4“°"e Fe“ For Rent > No LAND LINE REQUIRED
160+ Dealers _
Area's Largest Antique Mall, specializing in used ParentsIAlumni Weekends — Beautifully for more info call:
“ , furniture and "cool" accessories for the “cool" house I'eSf0fed and modernized cabin on 45 acres in
 _ L ' or apartment. mountalns 15 mln. west of Lexington. 
f completely '8 v_ '
There's something for everyone! ;ll;lIBI;I;eAd wrh persiodsantiqutes and tlocatlt art. A  I  Apple Spoken
_ __ -seeps . e ara e ues co age— _ .
‘j - Monday samrday 10 am’ 6 pm’ sleeps 2. Perfect for 2 t: 3 cougples. Private f”"'5e'V'Ce he-Te
' : Sunday 11 °'m°' 6 Pm’ vacation residence occasionally available for '5":  C
‘ (540) 4645555 rent elther weekly or nightly wl 3 nt. min. 17 N_ Randolph Street
call (804) 355-0002.
rt

 

  

PAGE 6

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

Field hockey drops season opener to Johns Hopkins, 2-0

Even with opening loss, Generals have hope for improved season

CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
SPORTS EDITOR

Although the Field Hockey team opened with
a 2-0 loss to Johns Hopkins (1-2), a team leader has
high hopes for the coming season.

“Hopkins is probably one of the best teams
our program has ever faced. Although we played

them tightly last year, I think that they have im-
proved their game immensely, as have we,” senior
midfielder Kitt Murphy said.

The Blue Jays did not allow the Generals to
take a shot during the first half, and were able to
score in the 16th minute. Junior General goalkeeper
Courtney Harrison made 2 saves during the half.

“Their passing game really enabled them to
control the ball and the ﬂow of the game in the first
half,” Murphy said.

After halftime, however, the Generals picked
up the pace and went on the offensive. The team
combined for six shots in the second half and had
five penalty comers.

WHICH WAY DID IT 60? Sophomore forward Amy Brown focuses on the ball as it rolls past two defenders in the team’s 2-0 loss to johns Hopkins University.

Multiple aspects of the sports world provoke anger, annoyance

My first column of the year actually has quite
an interesting back story. Initially I intended for it
to be my last article last year before evacuating
because, frankly, many of you will be really angry
after reading this. However, I decided that it would
make just as ﬁtting of an introduction for the new
school year. Basically, this is a series of short rants
about the many things in the sports

of professional athletes. Garnett has less college
experience than most W and L students accumu-
lated in their junior year of high school. So stop
listening to him talk and stop getting offended over

nothing!
-Don’t Believe a Public Denial — Whenever an
athlete gets accused of something they always say
they had nothing to do with it. It

world that anger me.....enjoy. sounds like P. Diddy saying he
-The Yankees are ruining base— HEALTHY VENTING had nothing to do with a shoot-
bﬂ — It’s true, it’s not just a buzz RYAN GRHTER ‘O7 . ing, except that his close friend

phrase. Without a salary cap, low-

market teams will never be able to sustain success
like the Yankees. Key word, “SUSTAIN”....yes,
the Marlins and Angels won a World Series each,
but the talent continues to ﬂood into New York and
creates a system where the only way to compete is
to keep up in the arms race as Boston has. There is
supposed to be ebb and ﬂow to teams’ success. In
order to sustain success a team needs great man-
agement that keeps a balance of old players, new
players, homegrown talent, and veteran free agents
as the Braves have for so long. The Yankees really
are the dark empire and Steinbrenner really is
Satar1’s baseball-addicted nephew.

—Get Off Stupid Athlete’s Backs — First Kellen
Winslow declares that he’s a “(expletive deleted)
soldier” and then Garnett joined the ranks. I, for
one, don’t really care. Neither was trying to sug-
gest that sports match the intensity, danger, or im-
portance of warfare. Both were just trying to say
that the other team is their bitter enemy and they’re
playing with great passion. I have the utmost re-
spect for our soldiers, but not for the intelligence

and employee Shyne miiiight
have squeezed a few rounds out. Anyways, Ricky
pulled out Billy Bong Thorton, Ray Lewis had some-
thing to do with the murder, O.J. did it, etc. This is
especially true with supplements and steroids.
Almost all players are suspected of using them,
but in order to even get accused there needs to be
extra evidence that makes it practically obvious.
-Don’t Jump on Bandwagon — This means
that unless you are from New York or Los Angeles
(or have some other direct tie), you have no right
to root for either_the Yankees or the Lakers. This
applies across the board. The Rams became “the
greatest show on Earth” and all of a sudden every-
one had been a fan of them for years. ....what a
coincidence (mutter). Be a hometown fan, be loyal
to your state, city, or region. What makes sports
fun is when your team is beating a friends’, not
when your team of the year, which happens to be
the best, heats up on everybody. There are fans
from St. Louis that earned the joy from that Super
Bowl win, they invested their fandom in the Rams
for years. Frontrunners come in for the good stuff

New Release

County

Signed Sally Mann
& Cy Twombly

We have hundreds of

 

The Bookery

Over 40,000 Bookes, New, Used & Rare!

Rockbridge Heritage
A Photographic Essay of Rockbridge
By Washington and Lee Alumnus (1966)

Thornton “Tim” M. Henry and
his daughter, Ruth Henry Keyes

Unique Books

New, Used, Collectible and Signed

464-3377, 107 W. Nelson St.
Open 7 days a week at 9 a.m.

and skip the bad years that separate a true fan from,
well, a girl. Note: this doesn’t apply to college
sports, where parents’ school can come into play.

-Hocke is the Greatest S on Ever — I’m sorry
I had to deceive you like this, I actually hate hockey
with a passion. I ﬁgured more people would read it
with this heading. Going to games is fun, but watch-
ing it on TV is almost as bad as watching soccer.
Pass, Pass, Pass, Shoot and Miss, Pass,
Pass .... ..snore.

-A Solution for the WNBA — Watching
women’s basketball is like watching a junior high
game except without your son or brother playing.
No one dunks, no one
drives, no one can even re-
ally shoot that great. There-
fore, I suggest they lower
the hoop to 8.5 or 9 feet. Ba-
sically, the game would have
a ton more dunking and
blocked shots, and shoot-
ers would be much better
once they adjusted. I’m not
saying I’d watch, but then I
also didn’t think I'd ever
watch the Outdoor Games.
 I think I’m going to be in trouble for that
one, haha” ~Ron Burgandy

-Driveway Games Deserve a Chance -1 can’t
believe ballroom dancing is an Olympic sport. Per-
sonally, I feel that games such as kickball, wifﬂe
ball, pool baseball, pickle, wallball, and any other
games that you invented in your driveway as a kid
should be Olympic sports as well as professional

 

CHAD KIEWIET DEJONGE / THE RING—TUM PHI

_Watching women’s
basketball is like
Watching a junior high
game except without
your son or brother

playing.

“Our goal for the second half was to go out
and work as a team to take possession and to earn
some short comers,” Murphy said.

Although the team accomplished this goal,
the Generals were not able to get to the back of the
net. The Blue Jay goalkeeper only had to make
one save to retain the shutout.

Johns Hopkins sealed their victory with a goal
in the 56th minute against junior goalkeeper Elise
Gelinas. During the half, Gelinas made three saves.

“Overall I think our team played very well dur-
ing the game and I am very excited for where we
could go this year,” Murphy said. “We got a very
talented group of freshmen this year that will con-
tinue to push this program in the direction it needs
to go.”

Last year the team finished with a 10-9 record
and lost in the ODAC Tournament semifinals to
the ultimate ODAC champion, Eastern Mennonite.

The ODAC preseason poll predicts that the
Generals will finish third in the ODAC’s this sea-
son.

The Generals will travel to Muhlenberg Col-
lege for a 3:00 game next Saturday in search of the
team’s first victory.

5004 ODAC Field Hockey\
Preseason Poll
1. Virginia Wesleyan
2. Eastern Mennonite
3. Washington & Lee
4. Lynchburg
5. Roanoke
6. Randolph-Macon
T7. Bridgewater
T7. Sweet Briar
9. R-M Woman's
10. Hollins

sports. That would be so much fun, just look at
what happened in “Baseketball.”

-lntemational Basketball — International bas-
ketball is constantly changing for the sole pur-
pose of screwing <ahem> sony .... ..”ha.ndicapping”
the U.S. Despite the obvious fact that the U.S. had
a pathetic excuse for a dream team (Lamar Odom
starting at the 4?), we still should win. The three
point line is 3 feet closer and we still couldn't hit
anything, it was sad. But we must remember that
these teams play together so much more and have
chemistry that we can’t create in a few weeks. Hav-
ing said that, it was rather obvious that every ref-
eree was biased against the
U.S. I saw a couple fouls
called on Duncan that only
could have been called
“jumping.” I wasn’t aware
jumping was a foul. So
what’s the solution? Send
the Pistons? Don’t be so
shortsighted. No owner is
going to risk his entire team
as the rest of the league
stays healthy. The only so-
lution is for our stars to fi-
nally become so sick of being the laughingstock
of the Olympics that they actually do something
about it. If Gamett, TMac, Kobe, Vince, and
Jermaine O’Neal care about this country at all
they’ll take this year’s embarrassment personally
and show up in four years ready to shut that an-
noying little prick from Lithuania .... ..Sarunas
J asikevicius (had to look it up for spelling).

Phi Sports - Phi Sports - Phi Sports

Want to
write or
edit for
Phi
Sports?
All
positions
available!

  

 

  

 

’l’_Hl§. li.il\i(3~’l'UMl)H_l
RTS & LIFE
W&L Floridians fight through wind,

rain, ﬂoods to come back to campus

BY JORDAN ANDERSON
SENIOR STAFF warren

With an unusually harsh
hurricane season upon us,
many Washington and Lee
students have experienced
the hardships of dealing
with three hurricanes in a
two month period.

Most recently, Hurri-
cane Frances, packing winds
as strong as 140 mph, dis-
rupted weather patterns
throughout the Eastern Sea-
board, as far south as
Florida and as far north as
Richmond.

Much of the rain experi-
enced during the end of Ori-
entation Week was a
shadow of Frances’ former
self.

John Bovay, a native of
Gainesville, Florida, experi-
enced severe weather -con-
ditions that prompted can-
cellation of classes at the
University of Florida.

Fellow Floridian, Katy
Allen, is also no stranger to
hurricanes.

Growing up in South
Florida, she states that she

 

SAVE A HORSE, RIDE A SEA-D00.

has become accustomed to
the storms. In fact, she
says that the school system
“had about 5 days set aside
at the beginning of the
school year as ‘hurricane
days.’”

Allen and 2.9 million
other Florida residents
were evacuated from their
homes in preparation for

In the wake of Hurricane Frances, the
only feasible mode of transportation for many was a Sea—Doo. Frances
dumped rain from Florida up the Eastern Seaboard.

W&L Bookstore Student Book of
the Week
50 Things You're Not Supposed
to Know (by Russ Kick)

This is the ultimate guide to |ittle—known
truths that The Man doesn't want you
to know. Read the unbelievable stories
_behind 50 little known controversies,
scandals, and oddities.
For example, few people know...-

*One of the Popes wrote an erotic
book-

*We came within minutes of a nuclear
war with Russia in 1995-
*Hit|er’s blood relatives are alive and
well in New York state-

*The Virginia colonists practiced canni-
balism-

*The Supreme Court has ruled that
you are allowed to ingest any drug,
especially if you are an addict.

Regular price: $9.95 Book of the Week Price:

$7.96 (Also, pre-order the sequel, 50 Things

You're Not Supposed to Know, Volume 2, due
in November, for 15% off this week)

 

 
 
 

  

iﬁlﬂtﬂtltl
ngrnrj minus,    

.. ’ .31’ ' .' tin  ‘W-‘

‘ "§"ﬁ’$:‘i"h§'-'6'§'i'I&i'h&%5'5-’§?'E’%'§$§%§I~$5:’h¥§'BH?B$¥§¥5§&W‘k$%5'i:'E"E’Iéﬁ§§'5'5’§$T%. _'

Blue Binge
A   center

.    IO:-I '
" llmelmaeimmzmrsensummmwmnmshawmnwmmmmwm
‘ mm: . ' '2 ' ":
a.emule17aIl%laﬂamment   
1§nmwa“ummw£mnsm£mmeaaeAuaﬂuie.
4» serum  as serum:  4 rear 4» mam rmmamuar «I-
3 new in emu. an 9 cm BWBERIEB as

 

Q  E Tﬁlﬁ 520.5% mi ; gmmrumer. A .5‘ "
  ; nuammsxmellmmr it wmﬂam. as
.  cm ti Stank! It  . §

éuiina "ire-i-r an M ' .'.'..' '

Blue Ridge mil ﬂenter

 §Q3§'fIB-Ida ﬁlllﬁ $3158 "“Bil§3ﬁ‘3 Wiﬁiﬂ, W1 .
3‘ '§"5-55.3%“-‘IIﬁn'5:'5'B'k"k$1u5'§"i'h?h"k"h'i'§5"U'i"k"IIr“h'59b'§ﬂr'k'h5ﬂu‘5'§'i.’$iﬂr‘Is"h'§‘§'h$‘h‘k&$%‘§‘Ir1:'§‘h& '

 

mam:

Heavy traffic caused the
trip to take much longer
than usual.

Sophomore Hank
Gates, a Richmond resi-
dent, returned to Lexington
with his basement at home
completely flooded.

August’s Category 4
Hurricane Charley has of-
ficially claimed 25 lives
and caused over 500 mil-
lion dollars in damages.

Though the South
Florida area seems to get
hit every year, Allen reas-
sures that though “it
seems like a sad way to
live, people are growing
more cautious and aware
of the problem every year,
and they will rebuild...It’s
my home, it’s what I’m
used to.”

South Floridians may
have to wait for that re-
building process. Cat-
egory 5 Hurricane Ivan is
currently battering the
Caribbean Islands, and is
expected to make landfall
anywhere from Biloxi,
Mississipi, to the Florida
Keys on Wednesday.

Hurricane Frances. Though
her house was not hit, some
of Allen’s family members
sustained severe damage.
Hurricane Frances has
also impeded students’ trips
back to Washington and Lee.
Allen and her family had to
leave Florida much earlier
than anticipated as a result
of gasoline shortages.

Lime Kiln Theater
presents award-

winning Bluegrass
musicians this fall

BY SARA DUcKwoRTH
STAFF WRITER

The summer season for Lime Kiln is starting to wind
down, but it ain’t over till it’s over. On September 17,
Gillian Welch and The Old Crow Medicine Show will be
performing. Welch, a Bluegrass singer, has received
Grammy nominations for both her work on the 0 Brother
Where Art Thou? Soundtrack and her record, Time (The
Revelator).We1ch’s newest record, Soul Journey, is her
“sunniest record” to date, but even that has a heart felt
longing to it. A

Her openers, The Old Crow Medicine Show, are suc-
cessful Bluegrass musicians as well. The story of how
they were discovered is a fateful one, not only for the
band but also for Lime Kiln. While the band was out
playing in front of a pharmacy, a woman stopped to ask
if they would be there for awhile because she wanted
her father to hear them. Her father turned out to be the
folk icon Doc Watson, who is the starting point for their
careers and the next performer for the stage. I

Doc Watson is the recipient of the National Medal
of Arts, National Heritage Fellowship, and five Grammy
Awards. Watson is a legendary performer who blends
his traditional Appalachian musical roots with blue-
grass, country, gospel, and blues to create a unique
style with an expansive repertoire.

Tickets for Gillian Welch’s show are $22 reserved,
$18 lawn, and Doc Watson’s are $25 reserved, $23
lawn. Tickets can be ordered at (540)463-3074.

       
  

  mmmﬁesmaa

-Ir 2:»;

 



ﬁ=~-2&1-93??

EMILYEDWARDS
A1ns&L11=EEDn0R

EMAH.-FDwARnsn\i@wLuimU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

The Iohn W. Elrod

Commons Movie Showings
for Fall 2004

September

SHREK 2
Monday, September, I3 @ 9:30 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, September, I4 & I6 @ 9:30 p.m.
THE PASSION
Sunday, September, I9 @ 7:00 p.m.
Monday, September, 20 @ 7:00 p.m.
TROY
Tuesday & Thursday, September, 2| & 22 @ 9:30 p.m.
SPIDER-MAN 2
Monday, September, 27 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, September, 28 & 30 @ 9:30 p.m.

October

HARRY POTTER & THE PRISONER OF
AZKABAN

Monday, October , 4 @ 7:00 p.m.

Tuesday & Thursday, October , 5 & 7 @ 9:30 p.m.
THE TERMINAL.
Tuesday & Thursday, October , I2 & I4 @ 9:30 p.m.
KING ARTHUR

Monday, October, I8 @ 7:00 p.m.

Tuesday & Thursday, October, I9 & 2l @ 9:30 p.m.
AM!-UIMAN

Monday, October, 25 @ 7:00 p.m.

Tuesday & Thursday, October, 26 & 28 @ 9:30 p.m.

November

THE VILLAGE
Monday, November, I @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November, 2 @ 9:30 p.m.

I 9 BEFORE SUNSET _ 9
Thursday, November, 4 @ 9:30 p.m.
Sunday, November, 7 @ 7:00 p.m.

THE BOURNE SUPREMACY
Monday, November, 8 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, November, 9 & II @ 9:30 p.m.
COLLATERAL
Monday, November, I5 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, November, I6 & I8 @ 9:30 p.m.
THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE
Monday, November, 29 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November, 30 @ 9:30 p.m.
Thursday, December, 2 @ 9:30 p.m.

Sponsored by the Elrod University Commons & Student
Activities
Refreshments will be served at a reduced rate

and students
p ri o r i t y

Faculty, staff are given

 

THE

PAGE 8

  

TEE RlNG~TUM PHI

AST ORD

EMILYFDWARDS
AKIS&LlFEEDlIOR ’
EMAi;EDi/ARi1sEi\i@wiiJii)iJ ~‘

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

Potato Man suggests revamping campus traditions *

We go to a school that is rich in tradition. One of the
oldest schools in the country, W&L has seen everyone
from Robert E Lee to Pat Green on its beautiful campus.
The Honor System and Secret Societies such as the Ca-
davers continue the tradition of excellence at Washing-
ton and Lee.

While some people seem to hate change in our school,
I on the other hand embrace it. To prove my
point, I have decided to offer alternatives
to our current traditions in order to spice
up life a little at this wonderful institution.

First off, and most importantly, I will
start with the Colonnade Club. For those of you freshmen
who are unaware of the requirements to be a part of this
club, it implies that you hookup with a member of the op-
posite sex in each and every building on the Colonnade.

While I’m sure being a member of this federation would
have proven risque in the olden days, times have changed,
and it is time to up the ante so to speak. So the new re-
quirement is that the person you hook up with has to be
majoring in the same department as the building special-
izes. For instance, a history major in Newcomb, 21 Romance
Languages major in Tucker, and so on and so forth.

What about Washington Hall you ask? Washington
Hall is reserved for faculty. That’s right my little love-

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE

birds, in order to become a member of the new and im-
proved Colonnade Club you must hook up with a faculty
member. Andjust for the fun of it, we’ll allow house moth-
ers to count as faculty. That should make it a little easier.

The next tradition we shall alter is that of the Honor
System. As we all know, the Honor System came under
deep scrutiny last year for numerous reasons. So I offer a
compromise between the EC and the student
body. For one week a year, you are not al-
lowed to tell the truth, do your own work, or
anything else honorable.

Unlike most college students, all year we
must abandon our lives as normal human savages, so I
think we all deserve a week in which we get a release. If
you do not abide by the “Dishonorable Code,” you will be
forced to undergo a ruthless EC trial with expulsion as the
punishment.

That’s right, no more lying to your girlfriend and tell-
ing her you love her (c’mon, we all know it’s a lie. Plagia-
rism on every assignment. Anarchy, complete anarchy...it
will be wonderful.

And there will be no more going to football games all
dressed up. There will be no going to football games at
all! Instead of putting on our pink Brooks Brothers tie
and our monogrammed shirt, why don’t we just keep the

)

1h.'s ._..w¢.~s tplhdt. {NH 5pux¢\ 3" («la cur-7
fresh;-tam) and t.‘*‘''‘‘‘‘’‘' N") (‘V IVA -3“h""h

Wing

ﬁun. ‘V6
Sucks. I an!-

u\'.c~u. 3: ha.
-to wish» 3%

Loans It Jtiun'¢ wen UMIC‘.
1'. an loo mud 0“ ‘W-5'

  
 
 
 
    

clothes on from the night before and party more? Let’s be
honest. On Saturday morning when the game is about to
start, no one actually wants to leave the Gin Bucket. So
let’s just stay and drink. It’s not like we know who wins;
everyone always leaves after the first half. So why should
we even waste our time? Let’s just pass the turkey baster
around all morning long.

And the final item I will change is the Cadavers. The
Cadavers are no more. I mean what is so exciting about
them? They give a lot of money to the school and draw
skulls on campus. Ooooo. Scary.

So instead of the Cadavers, we are going to replace
them with a real secret society. It’s going to be called the '1
Marshalls. The only people that are allowed into my club,
are those named Marshall who are from Idaho. That should
keep the rest of you losers out. iv.

Wait I take that back, I will allow a select amount fresh-
man girls in. But that’ll be it, and trust me we’ll do a lot
more fun things than playing with chalk.

And there you have it. I am going to change this school
for the better. These traditions have worn out their wel-
come at W&L, and it’s time to make some changes. Out
with the old and in with the new.

P.S. If a member of the faculty is reading this, meet me
at Washington Hall at midnight. 4.

   

    
    
  
  

  

om» ‘tau-j punch.

‘X.

By:
David I
S eifert

  
  

Mark

in‘... as out it‘! 3 ‘
I. may. :5. on our.

 
 
 
  
  

 
  
 

pfgrmsw . I was wasted
AM hw¥u\ no Ntﬂt *0‘
o\\3¢X- ttﬁhh

v

  

 

Grobmyer

 

 

 

 

can you 5:. litvc u
A 5 cm. at ‘llama
d °
ll.
St h A
O .
Lipscomb A *~
- L‘
(I3 Ilust Wanted t0 make the faculty awafe (1) What’s up with the aqua doors? Mrs. (I3 IS your Vehicle 011 the list Of 1Tl0St-
that we take 4 classes, not 1. Lee must be rolling in her grave. stolen vehicles? . ,.
Q Jeb Brooks has broken his toe. Send (1) Susan Summers does not equal Susan (I) Vent your anger, It Wm make you fool
him ﬂowers or painkillers- your choice. Some“ boner, 1adios_
(1) Dean Leehafdi the ultimate authority ‘I, Why do wot towels not my in woods (I) Survey: do you prefer XM or Sirius up
when you need permission to go on a date. Creek? satellite radio? ’
_ _ G) W110 iSn’t excited about the new (I, 1 Saw Wajkcr Humphrey last night, and G3 Yesterday was National Grandparents
Ttavehet bus? he had a Southern accent. Impressive. Day. What did you d0 about it?
‘ "k
Q Rest easy this evening: Brett Kirwan is (I) Are we having Buffalo Creek this year? (I) M ore on Grandparents Day_ it was
in the Navy, bravely defending our country. founded in ‘west Virginia
(I) Wows The Wheeler SPaIkS, Dan FaSSi0, . Q Who wears heels to a country party?
« Wh d b thr d . . .
Pete Jeuesa Jared Meyer Baud 15 talented and give toilet y 0? oys ow pames an not They sink! Defimtely not the way to impress (I) Sat11rday’s Tim McGraw concert in p,
atttaet1Ve- paper‘ upperclass girls. Ro
anoke was awesome. -
(I) stupidest Y:/ords of the Wed?’ heard on. (D « - Congratulations tt) the new members of (I) D°e5 auyuhe else haye thfﬁeulty (1) Helen Hughes subscribes to the Phi.
Traveller dispatch: Good, if that car s not here in the Rtthhg team‘ Beat H°h1u3- sleeping after they’ve been drinking? This You Should too
10 minutes, I’m gonna drive home drunk, I’ve got business of waking up at 7am is no good_ ' A
my keys in my hand,” Q Will they ever put up the goalposts on _ _ _
9 _ , , , (I) W&L hired another new vice president?
the f°°thah ﬁeld‘ Q Jessica Simpson is my fashion role . .
(I) Remember kids, body language is model What does tlns one do now, other than raise our
important in volasquogs o1aSS_ Q How much time has Marshall Rule spent ' tuition?
in the gym this week? Q While we’re on the subject, Ashlee >4
Q Sober drivers who park brieﬂy near ‘L _ _ Simpson is a much better singer than her sister. (I) Go 566 Second Qty comedy troupe at - '
County Seat will be fined $76. Great message to ‘I’ Happy 24m Bmhday to our favorite Boy the Lehfest Cehter oh W°dh°Sday- They,” really
all the sober drivers out there. ' Meet‘ Woﬂd a°t°r' Be“ Savage‘ Q Can Usher make a music video in which funny-
, he does not strip?
Q What was up with the last edition of The Q As of today, Beverly Hills 90210 will no (1) E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to 5 ,
Trident? Why were there no words on the front longer be airing in syndication on FX. Tragic. (I) Is inhalablo alcohol a good idoa? phi@w1u,edu_ ‘ ' A ’

page?

  

 
   
   

 

/ﬁmcix
-€?;'r8.75S
R551

r.

no. g

.lG'T
C-'1-

SAB now

called GAB,
plans more
than bands

GAB looking for
student involvement

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

The General Activities Board, for-
merly known as the Student Activities
Board, has undergone an expansion plan
to better serve the students of Wash-
ington and Lee.

“We will be working with SAO and
Contact and act more as an umbrella or-
ganization than before,” said Vice Presi-
dent of Publicity, Dan Fassio. Upcom-
ing events include the armual Homecom-
ing Concert at the Pavilion with the Drive
By Truckers, a gospel concert in Decem-
ber, and a possible band for Christmas
Weekend.’

Other events on campus include
Wednesday night comedy acts in the
Marketplace, Common Grounds Friday
nights in the Living Room focusing on
W&L acts, and Nooners where unusual

events will occur Fridays at noon out— «

side the Commons. At one planned
event, the GAB will show Ben Stiller’s
ﬁlm Dodgeball, followed by a dodgeball
tournament in which teams must wear
uniforms and register under silly names.
At another event, the GAB will invite
students to bring an item to the Com-
mons to throw from the roof into a pool
in order to see what ﬂoats and what
doesn’t.

Lauren Peters, President of GAB,
said the student body’s disapproval of
the SAB provoked the changes. The
new director of the Commons, Margo
McC1inton, approached the old SAB
about expanding the organization be-
yond bands alone. Student Activities
Director Todd Tate and Assistant Direc-
tor Kristen Powell also greatly inﬂu-
enced the restructuring of GAB.

An online survey and a suggestion
box will give students their first oppor-
tunity to contribute their opinions on
bands and other events. “We wanted to
make it campus-wide so everyone has a
say,” said Allan Galis, GAB’s Vice Presi-
dent of Administration.

After general student discontent in
recent years, GAB feels the pressure to
put on a big event—but a feasible event.
Many students complained that the SAB
did not bring in bands like the Rolling
Stones or Bob Dylan. According to Pe-
ters, the Rolling Stones would take up 3
years of GAB’s budget. Nevertheless,
Fassio said that the GAB would try their
hardest to please the student body.

According to Fassio, the best way
to impact the GAB is to join. GAB is

‘ looking for a diverse board, stressing

the importance that everyone can help
from Computer Science majors design-
ing web—pages to Accounting majors
doing treasury work. Interested parties
can interview next week on September
27 and 28. GAB can be contacted at
GAB@wlu.edu or by talking to Lauren
Peters, Allan Galis, or Dan Fassio.

  

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

Tin riudun‘ none of Washington and In Unineruh since 7897

PHOTO COURTESY KAH NDI
ROYAL BLOOD. In her high school photo, Ndi looks like an average girl. Little did they know....

 

Deck goes here to discuss feature story on princess

BY KATHERINE GREENE
STAFF WRITER

There is a girl at this school who goes through classes,
activities, and parties like we all do. There’s one small
difference, though: she’s a princess.

It may sound like the plot of The Princess Diaries,
but it is a reality for Kah N di, ’07. A native of Massa-
chusetts, Ndi is actually the heiress to a tribe of 1000-
plus Cameroonians in Central Africa.

Ndi is somewhat less than thrilled about the perks of
royalty. “One kid at a party did bow to me,” she said,
rolling her eyes. ‘‘It’s not that serious.”

“I think it’s funny that people care,” said the good-
natured sophomore, “because people back home [in
Massachusetts] don’t.”

Bianca Goodman ’08, met Ndi in her hometown of
Lowell, Mass., and was shocked to learn of her friend’s
royal status. “I would never have known,” Goodman
said.

This may be due in part to Ndi’s easy—going nature,
and her blithe attitude towards her heritage. “I’m not
very into it [the culture],” she said. “I like my life here.”

Ndi, frequently involved in Commons activities, has
little interest in ever returning to Cameroon, though
her parents fully intend to return to their home when
her ten—year-old brother leaves for college. “There’s
not much to go back to,” she said. “I mean, I could go

there and be comfortable, but chances are I won’t.”

She said, “My parents don’t understand why I’m so
apathetic about it, but they just want me to be happy.”

Ndi doesn’t assume any royal mannerisms. She said
that her uncle, also involved in the tribal leadership,
won’t even sit in a chair that has been touched by
another person, unless they too are royalty.

Apparently the Ndi family has a different attitude.
“We’re just simple folk,” said Ndi. “I put my pants on
one leg at a time, just like anybody else. I don’t have
any bodyguards, no Jaguar...I wash dishes just like
everybody.

“Personally,” she said, “I don’t feel it has any bearing
on my life.”

She admits that others from Cameroon treat her with
more respect “than they would a normal person my
age,” but says that she’s “really not that well—versed in
the history of Cameroon.”

There is one other Cameroonian custom the
American-born princess does not have to endure.
Friend Megan Murphy, ’07 said, “She doesn’t have
to go by the arranged marriage thing, so she’s
available.”

If you can find her, that is. The relatively humble
sophomore who calls herself “an open book” blends
right into the mix of students, just like anyone else.

They say all little girls are princesses. For Kah
Ndi, that is true.

PHI

VOL , No. 8

MONDAY,3El’1"EMBER 20,2004

New clubs
offer more
of a variety

Generalee, Theatre Outreach
give students many activities

BY KATHRYN KRAL1.
STAFF WRITER

The performing arts received ex-
citing new additions as two new stu-
dent organizations were approved by
the Executive Committee at their first
meeting.

Generalee is a woodwind quintet
composed of students clarinet, oboe,
bassoon, French horn, ‘and ﬂute per-
formers. “We all love to play and
thought we would sound great to-
gether, so we decided to start a group,”
said Eka Akpakip ‘O7, president of the
ensemble.

Their repertoire includes music
ranging from classical pieces, includ-
ing a Mozart minuet, to contemporary
arrangements, like the Pink Panther and
the Entertainer.

Since it is their first year together,
Generalee will not hold their first per-
forrnance until after Reading Days in
October.

A unique aspect of this group is
that it will continue to perform
throughout the Spring Term. Akpakip
explained, “Most music ensembles
only run through the Fall and Winter
terms, so many musicians and audi-
ences have nothing to do during
Spring term, and I think our group will
remedy this.”

Generalee plans to limit the group
to only ﬁve members until next year,
when they hope to expand through au-
ditions.

The second student organization
is Theatre Outreach, a program cre-
ated to provide enjoyable non—alco—
holic entertainment. It enables stu-
dents to socialize in a cultured envi-
ronment that most frat parties lack.

“The group creates t-shirt events
and date/single functions such as re-
ceptions and dinners and even spe-
cial perforrnances for participants sur-
rounding existing events on the The-
atre Season and Lenfest Center,” said
president Ligia Abreu ’06. “There was
a real need for activities beyond the
fraternity basement.”

Despite the talent and enthusi-
asm of the theatre department, many
students have no idea it exists.

Theatre Outreach serves a dual
purpose by both making available a
fun and lively social event and pro-
viding “the sometimes missing ele-
ment of an excited and interested stu-
dent audience,” according to Abreu.

The idea of Theatre Outreach
was conceived by graduated market-
ing major Jeff Meriggi. For a marketing
class, he began a project to benefit non-
drinking and independent students.
His project was so successful that it
continues as Theatre Outreach with
Tom Anderson serving as the faculty
advisor.

Students wishing to attend the
events should look for ﬂyers posted
on campus.

Students, faculty hammer out handbook changes
Incidents revolving around pledgeship, such as Beta Theta Pi investigation, inspired requests for clariﬁcation

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Changes to the Washington and
Lee 2004-2005 Student Handbook are in
progress.

Specific incidents last year, such as
Beta Theta Pi’s suspension for hazing,
prompted students and faculty to re-
quest clarification of the school’s judi-
cial procedures and policies. So the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee (SAC) asked a
subcommittee to begin drafting changes
to the student handbook.

According to General Council
Leanne Shank, members of Beta did not

know whether they should appeal to the
University Board of Appeals (UBA) af-
ter their Inter-Fratemity Council (IFC)
ruling, or whether they had to face SAC.
Proposed changes to the Student Hand-
book would clarify this.

“We are not removing any proce-
dures. We are not removing fair process
by any means,” said Shank. “We are pro-
vidingtclarity.” -

Further ambiguities appeared in the
distinction between hazing cases fac-
ing the IFC and Panhellenic or those fac-
ing the Student Faculty Hearing Board
(SFHB).

“If you look at who hears a hazing

case — in one place it says SFHB and in
another place it says IFC, but it doesn’t
necessarily say which body hears what
and when,” said Dean Watkins.

“So, it was left open to interpreta-
tion and the interpretation was: if it’s an
alleged hazing case having to do with at
Greek organization, the case would be
heard by IFC or Panhellenic, and if it’s
an alleged hazing case having to do with
an individual, it would to go SFHB,”
Watkins said.

The proposed handbook may also
say that students are expected to coop-
erate in hazing investigations.

“It does not say that if you don’t

cooperate, you may be pulled in front of
the EC,” said Shank. “But if you have
first hand knowledge of threatening ac-
tivities in the form of hazing, the expec-
tation is that you cooperate.”
Speculation and confusion has lead
many students to believe that proposed
policies might make remaining silent of
hazing violations an honor violation. But
there is “no way the honor system can
make people talk,” said Executive Com-
mittee (EC) President Marie Trimble.
The Student Handbook is reviewed
every year, typically over the summer.
But the 2003-2004 Handbook is currently
affective because potential changes to

this year’s Student Handbook have taken
longer than normal to complete.

The subcommittee has given a draft
student handbook to the President’s of-
ﬁce, but when the copy returns to SAC,
each of the six student judicial body will
meet to endorse or raise concerns over
changes to their processes.

Finally, the faculty must vote on the
handbook adjustments. Even then, noth-
ing is final.

“We’re in a process, which is why
there’s not much to say because we
don’t want folks to think there’s some-
thing going on that there’s not,” said
Dean Watkins.

  

  

PAGE 2 «,5,

are-rfnis G.tLE\!BuHr~.1. L.5.l:3l’‘.H.H ‘:
rssrnimon  me‘ an

3 . F‘=‘W\:,‘tf’?'-l7i”a '1. W2‘: 

MONDAY, SEPIERMBER 20, 2004

N   asltg

2 2 20819

Fre§l1man’s Oprah debut airs

O.C. starlet revamps Elli Walker's style, the freshmen comes to class with new look

F

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEws EDITOR

Bright smiles and new confi-
dence marked freshman Elliott
“Elli” Wa1ker’s appearance with
her twin Allie on The Oprah
Winfrey Show last Friday. The
sisters, who received a surprise
makeover from the television
show, displayed the result of
their sessions with Mischa
Barton, star of The 0. C. , and her
personal style team.

Allie and an Oprah camera crew
waylaid Elli in the Commons be-
fore start of classes to tell her
she’d been chosen for the
makeover. The Walkers spent
two days with Barton in Los
Angeles preparing for the show’s
airing last week.

“It was great!” Barton gushed
to Oprah on the show. “We had
so much fun.”

The episode, which also fea-
tured surprise visits by Usher
and Avril Lavigne to their fans,
revealed the trio in a shopping
frenzy. The actress shepherded
the Walkers through her favor-

 

 OPRAI-LCOM

“It was great!...We had so much fun!”

-ELUWALKER
ELLI, MIDDLE, suops THE MALL WITH MISCHA BARTON,
RIGHT AND sIsTER ALLIE ON LEFT

ite Hollywood boutiques, then
took them to her own hair stylist
and makeup artist for some per-
sonal attention.

But take away the fame and fancy

clothes, and all that’s left is a
group of girls. While the cam-
eras were off, Elli and Allie spent
some quality time in the limo with
Barton and her mother. The

Walkers, who were “blown away”
at the thought of Barton being
their age, talked with her about
how different their lives are. To
her surprise, Elli discovered that
the starlet is “genuinely nice.”
The Walkers felt a little less com-
fortable when they came onstage
to exhibit their new looks. Walk-
ing out in front of TV cameras
and a screaming audience was
“nerve-racking”, Elli admits.
Having her sister by her side and
her delighted parents in the front
row put her more at ease, even
inspiring her to strike a pose and
invite watchers to “come and get
it.”

“Once we got out there, it just
clicked,” Elli said. ,

Sadly, the Walkers only received
one outfit from their shopping
spree. But Elli plans to wear
hers—a red turtleneck, plaid skirt,
and black boots—around cam-
pus this year.

The Walkers’ new clothes came
primarily from Miss Sixty and
Veronica M. Privé Salon, West
Hollywood, handled hair and
makeup for the pair.

Chi Omega

“loves”

Make-A—Wish

Chi Omega is hosting a tennis
tournament to beneﬁt its philanthropy

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—IN—CHIEF

Next weekend, Chi
Omega will be hosting a ten-
nis tournament to benefit
Make-A-Wish.

The name of the tour-
nament is the “Chi Omega
Classic,” and is the first time
Chi Omega has held such a
tournament. The Classic
begins at 10AM on Sunday,
September 26th at the out-
door tennis courts.

Chi Omega thanks
many local business for both
monetary donations
(Marlene’s Hairstylists, A
Positive Image Spa, Heslep
& Kearney P.C., Colonna &
Associates, Inc. and others)
and prize donations (Graden

Shoe Company, Intimate U,
Sweet Things, Fun Foods &
Accessories, among oth-
ers).

These donations, as
well as any proﬁt made from
the $15 registration fee that
players can swipe home
outside the Commons from
11-2 all this week go to ben-
efit our national philan-
thropy, the Make A Wish
Foundation, said Chi
Omega Service Chair
Dianne Winter.

“We really hope this
will be a success, not only
so we can make a signiﬁcant
donation to the Make A
Msh Foundation, but also
so we can hold the event
again next year,” said Wm-
ter said.

TALKBACK: Have you gone to the’ WorldFest International? Film Festival in the University Commons?

“I’ll probably go
to one or two.”
-Karen Blackburn ‘06

 

“I’m going this

aftemoon...it’s a once-

in-a-blue-moon thing
to have independent

films come.”
-Neil Sheaffer ‘O8

  

  

“I didn’t know
it was here.”
—Anna Rainey ‘O6

“I didn’t go...I didn’t
know much about it
and there were parties

and stuff to go to.”
-Hugh Trout ‘O8

“I wis I had gone to
more...I don’t want to
hear about there being

nothing to do here.”
-Katie Abplanalp ‘O5

    

“I’m not a big

movie buff.”
-Robbie Clark ‘O6

The GENERAL ACTIVITIES BOARD: (SAB Expansion plan)

WE ARE a student programming board that organizes most of Washington and Lee University’s campus activities. GAB’s programming caters to
the entire W&L community with entertainment options such as comic acts, movies, recreational activities, and large musical performances.

ALL STUDENTS at W&L are encouraged to apply to GAB. Members within GAB represent the Executive Board, Program Council (committee
chairs), and committee members. SAB is a wonderful place to get real world experience in a campus setting. We welcome ideas to enhance campus
programming. Feel free to send any questions, suggestions, or concerns to gab@wlu.edu. Here is some information on each GAB committee:

CONCERTS This committee organizes and plans every GAB concert, from big acts like Widespread Panic and Bruce Homsby to smaller acts like
DJ Skribble, Leftover Salmon, VACO, and student bands. If you are interested in production, booking, lighting, sound, or organizing large events
with top quality entertainment, then this is the committee for you.

FILM This committee is responsible for choosing movie titles shown in the John Elrod Commons. From box office hits like Finding Nemo and
Cold Mountain to staple classics like Wayne’s World and Wizard of Oz, this committee works with other organizations on campus to co—sponsor
GAB movie events.

GRAPHICS/Webmaster Do you like Art? How about Computers? Even better if you like both! This committee is stationed under GAB’s VP of
Publicity and works closely with the PR committee. This group is responsible for the design and implementation of all advertising, including
newspaper ads, ﬂyers, and posters. The GAB website, an important campus activity resource, also falls into the hands of the graphics committee.

PUBLIC RELATIONS Interested in marketing, advertising, or journalism? Students with enthusiasm and good people skills are an integral part of
GAB’s Public Relations team. Working with the graphics committee, this team tackles the enormous task of publicizing events and implementing a
campaign to promote the organization and raise campus awareness. Without PR, GAB just wouldn’t ﬂoat

NOONERS Speaking of ﬂoating. . ..Ever wonder if that random microwave in your basement will ﬂoat in a tank of water? Would you like to smash
fruit into oblivion with a baseball bat? If so, Nooners is your calling. This committee arranges activities occurring at noon (hence the name) on
selected Fridays around the Commons. The street performer quality of these activities invites the wacky and outrageous with open arms.

REGULAR EVENTS This committee organizes the regular campus events occurring most Wednesdays and Fridays and Game Days. On
Wednesdays at 8 pm, this committee organizes and hosts professional comedians with opening student acts. Common Grounds is the Friday night
coffee shop scene with acoustic music and beverage specials in the Elrod Commonsf Café 77. Regular Events’ responsibility for hosting pre-game
rallies brings BBQ and music to Canaan green before the big game. If you like to laugh, eat, and listen to.good__rn\11_s_i__c‘then this GAB committee
needs you. KT“ 6

RECREATION Like ﬂoating down the river? How about a day trip to DC? Or even ice skating at a five star resort? If you are on this committee
your job will be coordinating and going on these sporty, fun events. Other activities include Dodgeball tournament, volleyball tournament, March

Madness, and Super Bowl big screen nights.

Please direct any questions or comments to GAB President, Lauren Peters petersl@wlu.edu

  

 

ﬁ

 

MONDAY, SEIYFEMBER 20, 2004 .

raI';llIN<';—nII:PItI
STAFF EDITORIAL
Public pledgeship safest idea

Last week’s Phi led with the story,
“Possible changes in story for fraternity
pledgeship.” A shortened pledgeship was
among the changes discussed. The Phi
believes that an eight-week pledgeship
is ﬁne, and that shortening it any more
will only serve to cheapen brotherhood
and sisterhood.

We do not condone violence, abuse
or mental anguish. We do support bond-
ing and fellowship.

Many members of the Phi staff re-
member pledgeship activities from two
years ago. There was basketball out-
side the Co-op, free-style rapping on the
steps of the Co-op, cardboard cut-out
cars. We remember a kissing tollbooth
on the bridge to the sororities and a mock
battle in the old D-hall. Most of all, we
remember a pledge giving out free ham
sandwiches outside "the library. All of this
is now considered hazing because it is
visible, and not optional for the fraternity
pledges. .

But we ask, which is more danger-
ous: allowing boys to bond behind closed
doors or allowing pledges to plan funny
games to act out in front of the campus
community?

We think fun and games should win
out over the secret activities, which can-
not be regulated orcontrolled and which
may lead to danger.

In contrast, the light-hearted activi-
ties provide not only a sense of having
“earned” one’s brotherhood, but it also
provides quality entertainment for the rest
of campus. Everyone wins.

No matter how much authorities
want to control pledgeship, and for good
reason, considering how dangerous it can
be, Greek life is packed with traditions
and pledgeship is one of those traditions.

As a campus, we should recognize
the value of pledgeship and work to guide
Greek houses toward safe, beneﬁcial
pledgeship activities.

 

“Even samurai have teddy bears, and even
I thoseteddybearsgetdrunlé’

-OVerheardatPhiKapSaturday Night '

 

Editor in chief Erin Elizabeth Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauderman

News Editor Sarah Mun-ay
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Emily Edwards
Photography Editor Corbin Biackford
Sports Editor Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Asst. Layout Editor Emily Hulen

C017)’ Editors Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis

Business Manager David Seifert
Circulation Director Rob Rain
Asst. Circ. Director Legget. Kitchin
Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.r_n. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: ph'i@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

  
 
 
 

CAIErANI>nIsON
OPINIONS EDITOR

FMAI;AAI>nIsO\1O@vIiIIrDII

PAGE 3

HV

WHITNEY DUFFEY

In tcday’s wodd, Washington and Lee sometimes seems out ofplace. After all,
where else can you leave your door unlocked, your possessions unattended for hours
atatime,orapﬂeofnmrieymﬂreGraharn-Leescmmyard,wiﬂ1dieconﬁder1ceﬂ1atﬂ1ey
will not be touched? Our institutions unique Honor System guarantees this. The sole
responsibility of students under this code is to comport themselves honorably; there is
no codiﬁed set of laws deﬁning a student’s behavior in this sense. While some conduct
is clearly in violation of _this philosophy (lying, stealing, cheating), there are other
instancesinwhichabreach oftrustisless clear. Insuchcases, itisthegeneral conscri-
sus of the student body which should indicate to the Executive Committee (EC) right
fnomwrong.Thisis apowerful tool forasystemwithnootsdatingbackto 1865; itallows
theHonorSystemtoadapttoeachincominggenera1ionofsu1dentsandthereforebe
most eifective in maintaining honorable action even with considerable changes in
culture. These questions of policy should not be taken lightly by students but weighed
carefully. One suchissueisatopic ofconoemto ourstudentbodyrightnow: whether
or not using a fake ID constitutes an honor violation

While no speciﬁc guidelines for student behavior under the Honor System have
everbeenwmpibdithasgeneraﬂybeenmdemmodﬂiatdesysternmaelyasks
students to act with honesty, integrity, and responsibility. Under these conditions, the
possessionanduseofafakelDconﬂictsgreaﬂywiththeHonorSystemWhenyou
use false identiﬁcation that says you are 21, you have deliberately been deceitful, are
certainly not acting with integrity, and you are lying at least about your age (if not your
entire identity). One who uses it is obviously not being honest .

However, ifyoucannotbeconvincedbythespiritofthe1aw,thenperhapsthe
lenerwﬂlpasuadcyou.h1TlnWlnteBookaW&Lsmdent’sg1ndemmderswnding
the Honor System, there are many instances where language cleady points against the

use of fake ID’s. According to the written philosophy of the Honor System, the code’s_

basis is “a spirit oftrust [that] pervades all aspects of student life.” ALL aspects of
studentlife. Soinotherwondsjustasyoucan’tdeclinetocheatonatestbutthencheat
inasport,youcannotreﬁ.Isetodeceiveaprofessorbutproceedtodeceivearnemberof
the Lexington comrrnrnity with false identiﬁcation After all, The White Book clearly
states tint students must “represent themselves truthfully.” Notice it is not followed by
the phrase ‘when it’s convenient.”

'IheECtakesthismisrepresentationvery seriously;justtwoyearsagoastudent
withdrewinthefaceofaclosedhearingaﬁerbeingchargedwiizhtheuseofafakell).
Plus,ifsomeoneelsehasgivenyoutheirlDtouse,thaIpersonwilllnve suchcharges
placed ontheirpermanentrecordaswell.

Finally, ignorirIgthefactﬂ1atfal<eH)’sviolateﬂiemoralcomerstoneofthis institu-
tion, areclearlyincontrasttothelanguage of'IheWhiteBook,willprobablygetyou
kicked out of schoolANDinlegal trouble. . .haven’tyou guys scenthelatestPrinceton
Review standings? You really don’t need one.

Response from Shell

Doesanyorreinlexingtonpay atterrtiontotheinrderagedrinldngatﬁaternity
houses and offcampus dwellings? Last night, did you hear someone ask your age
beforetheyhandedyouabeer? No,andthisiswhyou.rsystemworks withoutfakeids.
Oursocial sceneallowsustodrinkasmuchaswewantwithoutidentiﬁcation Needless
to say, very rarely do we wony about this Virginia law.

Also,forclariﬁca1ion,thesuidernWH‘fﬂ)REW;meaningheorsheHADNOT
YEFbeenfoundguiltyofanHV. ThequestionofwhethertheFCdoesinfactfeelthat
fakeidsareanHVdependsontheparticul_arcomrnittee. PastFCshavesaidthatthey
wouldnotin factfeelthatanHonorViola1ionhadtakenplacewiththeuseofafakeid
Because of our Honor Systemas awhole, andtheway it works, we determine whatis
andwhatisnotanhonor violation We considertheintentbehindtheaction We have
acommitteeformedtcdoso. Asast11dentbody,wedonotfeelthatunderagedrinking
isanHV;eventhoughwebreakthelaweachlirnewedoit

Asaﬁnalpoint,IdonotfeelthattheuseoffakeidsinLexington,V1rginiaissmart
or needed However; when we go out of our own enviromnent and enter that of another
campus,weneedtorememberﬂiatomnormalwaysofhvingdonotcoincidevnthﬂiose
ofmostcampusesacrossthenation Someplacesconsideritnecessarytohaveagood

fake id before they have their books, or dorm supplies. In some towns, bouncers, -

bartendersandwaiuessesknow thatthey arebeinghandedfake ids dayinanddayout.
However, with that small piece of paper, they have zero responsibility for the action
Because there, police WILL actually enter places and charge people with underage
 fIhankgoodnessforLexington; we don’tneedthatsmallpiece ofpapertobe
abletodn'nkasmuchaswewant,whenwewantit, andwithwhomeverwewanttodrink
itwith. » ‘

No HV

KATHERINE SHELL

When a W&L student visits another college campus where fake ids
are prevalent, and even socially acceptable, is it against our Honor Sys-
tem to present a fake id in order to get into a bar or get alcohol? Person— I
ally, I think not. Though our Honor System extends to each individual,
no matter their location, the basis of our honor system lies in the single
sentence, “To act as a gentleman or gentlewoman.” '

Gentlemanly, or gentlewomanly, behavior goes in accord with adapt-
ing to each culture. What is normal and socially acceptable one place is
not necessarily socially acceptable at another. When we visit another
college, generally speaking, we wish to experience their lifestyle; we
want to see what other colleges do for fun on a given night. We shouldn’t
expect their behaviors to be exactly like ours, because they are part of an
entirely different social scene. ‘

Bars in certain college towns across the U.S.A. depend on under-
age drinkers for much of their financial support. Though this is against
the law, it is a fact for many places. Fake ids simply become an “out” for
bartenders and bouncers to avoid police. We’ve all heard the phrase,
“You just have to show them something.” Once some sort of identifica-
tion is shown, punishment will be put on the individual if they are caught,
rather than the place of business. Without under-age drinking, many
bars would not be able to survive and would push the social scene out
of a city.

W&L students as a whole get used to alcohol ﬂowing freely around
fraternity houses and off-campus parties. In fact, we are so used to
being able to find alcohol any time we want, that we forget that most
college students do not have that kind of ease. If we want alcohol, at
most we simply have to ask someone to buy it for us. Once we go to
another college campus, people are not as likely to offer us alcohol or
buy us anything, even if we pay for it. In order to experience another
college’s average night out, in some places, fake ids are necessary.

However, I would like to say that I feel it is unnecessary to use fake
ids in Lexington. Alcohol is not difficult to find. This promotes a non-
fake id based social scene just as much as it expects its students to
never cheat or steal. There is no point to use a fake id in Lexington; it is
not worth raising the question of an Honor Violation to a group of people
that may or may not agree with fake ids. All one really has to do is walk
into almost any fraternity house on campus and ask for a drink. They’re
always happy to oblige. Our lifestyle, however, is not the standard
lifestyle of other colleges, and we must realize this when we visit other
campuses.

We are set apart from other universities for a reason, and I think
we’d all like to keep it that way.

Response from Duffey H

The story goes that when Robert E. Lee became president of our
university, a student asked him what the rules were. He replied that
one should simply behave as a gentleman. He did not say, “To be-
have like a gentleman...when it’s convenient,” or “To behave like a
gentleman, unless nobody else is.” To say that you should be able to
negate the restrictions of the Honor System when others do not act
in similar fashion eats away at what the Honor System essentially is.
It is a basic principle of living that stays with many students for the
rest of their lives and is the reason why W&L grads are renowned for
honorable behavior in the business world and in their personal lives.
To say that the rules don’t apply to you if no one else follows them
has dangerous implications. Say all of your friends use fake ID’s and
because you want to “go with the ﬂow” you decide to as well; figur-
ing if everyone is doing it, it must be okay for me to. When does this
train of logic stop? Any Honor Violation could then be justified by
the response “but everyone was doing it.” The bottom line is this: to
justify an action merely because others were doing so does not make
it right. Our lifestyle may be different from those of other universities
but this is a fact to be proud of, not something to discard when you
feel it suits you.

Honor Violation-
45%

Qu1'cIq)o1l- “Should use of Fake IDs be considered an Honor V1'oIat1'o11 by the EC?”
' No Honor Violation-

53 students polled, 29 female, 24 male. Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Not Sure-
49% 6%

  

 

PAGE 4



MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

Expiration of Assault Weapons Ban endangers everyone

Let me put it this way- there

- is absolutely no good reason for

people to own guns that were
prohibited by the Federal Assault
Weapons Ban. None. No pos-
sible argument that is both sane
and logical for an ordinary Ameri-
can citizen to own, say, a TEC-9
exists. Home defense? Please.
Assault weapons are just that-
they’re for assault. To defend
your home from the hordes of
robbers that are out there, other
arms (shotguns, heavy pistols)
are far more effective given the
close quarters, not to mention

limitless funds of the NRA,
Washington’s most powerful
lobby.

I can understand owning a

hunting riﬂe. That’s reasonable ,

and even admirable. Owning a
handgun for defense is under-
standable, and certainly allow-
able. Even owning a heavier
weapon like a shotgun in order
to defend your home and to clean
while talking to your daughter’s
new boyfriend is fine by me. But
in my book, people who don’t
work for museums/armories/the
rnilitary/collection houses who

less creepy. Hunting? Please tell a c - tually own
me you’re not  heavy assault
going to riddle MODERATE 5 MUSINGS weapons are ei-

a deer with a
gun that can
fire thousands
of rounds a minute. And if you
honestly believe that you need
to keep heavy arms just in case
you need to start a revolution,
should the government become
totalitarian, go join the guy in the
picture to the right.

Like I said, there’s no good
reason. And yet, as you might
expect from those fine people
who work to represent our best
interests in Washington, Con-
gress allowed the Federal ban on
these weapons to expire. Presi-
dent Bush had indicated that he
would sign a renewal of the ban,
but Republican leadership in
Congress decided just to let the
ban fade away without action.
The, reason of course, is the fine,
red-blooded American organiza-
tion called the National Riﬂe As-
sociation, who would probably
defend the right of American citi-
zens to maintain a private nuclear
arsenal in every home. Congress
voted to let the Assault Weap-
ons Ban die because of pressure
from the NRA. Remember, it’s an
election year. When the ban was
first passed about 10 years ago,
many of the brave politicians who
supported it paid during the sub-
sequent election thanks to the

CAIEY ANDERSON ‘O6

ther a- govem—
ment—phobes,
often in mili-
tias, b— criminals who need the
guns to commit violent crime, c-
one of those people who are just

obsessed with guns, and prob- '

ably have a whole room full of
exotic weaponry at their house,
or d- simply crazy. I’d really pre-
fer to keep these kinds of weap-
ons out of the hands of all these

' people.

This shouldn’t even be a de-
bate. A few crazies and gun fa-
natics have hijacked the Republi-
can party in order to serve their
own malicious purpose. Republi-
cans who AREN’T subject to the
NRA’s slander are unanimously in
favor of the ban. When the ban
was first under consideration,
Ronald Reagan and Gerald Ford
were among those who wrote in
encouraging Congress to pass it.
The current President indicated
his willingness to sign a ban re-
newal. Yet, those in Congress who
stand shaking in their boots, fear-
ful of a ridiculous interest group,
have sacriﬁced the safety of the
American people to the conse-
quences of this woeful lack of ac-
tion.

What are those conse-
quences? Well, as you might re-
member, the ban was originally

a

Photo from tomeaker.com

SMILE, NOD, BACK AWAY SLOWLY. Advocates of letting the assault weapons ban expire include this guy., likely the N RA’s model American citizen.

passed in response to a string of
gun violence involving these
heavy weapons, culminating in a
shootout between Los Angeles
police and a few very heavily-
armed bank robbers. The police
were armed with a standard—issue
9mm pistol. The robbers had
heavy, rapid fire assault weapons,
high—class body armor, grenades,
and heavy auxilary weapons.
Most of the robbers’ armament
was either store-bought, or could
be found legally in stores at the
time of the shootout. The fatali-
ties that resulted were the ﬁnal
straw for many.

And now, the ban expires.
Police chiefs across the nation
were outraged at Congress last

week for failing to renew the ban,
citing numbers that predicted an
almost certain increase in violent
crime and gun—related death as a
direct result of the end of the ban.
There can be no doubt in my mind
that as of last Monday, our streets
are less safe, more susceptible to
the disgruntled or crazy person
who decides he or she wants to
go out and kill at random. Who
needs a string of sniper crimes in
the D.C. area when you can have
a one-man army, a guy who just
got fired perhaps, mentally un-
stable, mad at society, wants re-
venge on everyone, just strolling
the streets with what’s effectively
his own personal autocannon,
laughing at police because they

only have pistols?

Or hey, better yet, why don’t
we arm every student inAmerica’s
secondary schools, since we
know that now thisban is expired,
we’re going to have pissed—off,
half-insane kids strolling down
the halls with automatic weapons.
I mean, they might as well be able
to fire back Come on, Congress.
I’ve been through a school shoot-
ing. Santana High School, Santee,
California, March 5th, 2001. I was
shot at. Luckily (if there’s any-
thing lucky about a school shoot-
ing), the kid had a pistol. The trag-
edy was that he still managed to
kill two people and wound 15. If
he had had an assault riﬂe, he
would have killed a lot more

people, your humble author most
likely included.

So thanks, Congress.
Thanks for not having the guts
to stand up to the fools at the
NRA. The 2nd Amendment is
well and good, and should indeed
be supported, but the right to bear
‘arms doesn’t mean the right to
bear every conceivable arm.
Wayne LaPierre will be happy
with you, and doubtless millions
of dollars in campaign contribu-
tions will come from this. Mean-
while, I hope we all can live with
the “minor inconvenience” (as
the NRA terms crazed citizens
with guns) of dying children and
other innocents. America’s blood
is on Congress’ hands.

We more about the journey than the destination- A sophomores contemplations

To me, there is nothing more annoying that
the person who can’t refrain from constantly
comparing everything at W&L to the way it
was back home. Of course, I am admittedly one
of these people.

The first article I ever read out of the Ring-tum
Phi was written by the Potato Man himself on
the culture shock of moving to the south. His
views exactly mimicked my

own amazement at the south-

ern traditions and mannerisms
acted out by our fellow peers.
Already this year, I have no-
ticed a major trend here on campus that vastly
differs from the general attitudes I have experi-
enced at home.

Being a native of Colorado and having only
ever lived in two houses (the first can nearly
be seen from the second), I feel as though I am
in close contact with the pulse of the semi-ru-
ral Colorado scene. My yearly trips to seri-
ously-rural Nebraska also confirm my belief
that the pace of life out west holds a valuable
lesson for the students running around cam-
pus and makes me wonder... What’s the rush?

Upon my first meeting with my advisor this
term, I discovered that I‘ could be eligible to

 

INTRODUCING...
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘07 -

graduate in three years. While this is in no way
confirmed by any member of the administra-
tion or the head of the department, just the mere
suggestion got me thinking about the possi-
bilities that only three years of college could
open up. Firstly, I could be free of loi-
tering about campus taking classes that don’t
specifically interest me.
Secondly, I would be saving
A LOT of money. I am, how-
ever, on a full scholarship pro-
vided by two private investors
with whom I have carefully
cultivated a nineteen year long relationship.
I’m sure that they would be beyond grateful to
save the appalling amount of money it takes to
pay not only the tuition, but also the plethora
of other fees and living expenses. Their grate-
fulness may actually allow me to graduate debt-
free and fiscally ready to start life on my own
in graduate school or in the work force.
Thirdly, the sheer task of graduating in
three years could be appealing to the afore-
mentioned employer or grad school admissions
counselor. '
Faced with these plusses, I began re-
searching law schools, taking particular notice

phi @wlu. edu

Write for the Phi-

 

f‘3LuLiv.'n L i"»1'-';'1rIi.Ir;’-rI'3lr i}:

$99"

aw iv1.i4\.| Pub‘;-.i,'_§.g

 

It°s time to exercise something
other than your mind

Iirdlyﬁpiae no wed: ouuha: ﬁnsunal suudmt
bodgetand abuq: student shedde. Our.v5is3IIJ-
mhuuﬁma ommonanse Iwﬁiclosaand all

  

Ola-rozaﬁrﬁ busaﬁwu aomlhnidc

dicsippmyw
|'o.~..1' .‘Serr.1~::stv.:-r :o:d;::'|¢'-‘t 
N"N.°JH5iMAmui°rd-com I r- _i-r—.I :|.III1:!V\ -I_mr¢-if."
(540) 464-5546
?'&DNI.e= Hwy
Luingbon. ‘M24450

'7-¢.....I...:..,.s.Is.,,.,.|uI..I...u,|....s.s...a..s..v.u .+-,...u+..|.,L....I..... Nun .u. ..,.a..-,....J....|
an

of the University of Colorado— Boulder law
school and especially its in-state tuition. I
could be sittin’ pretty in relatively few years.
Then I realized that I don’t even know where
exactly I would be sitting, nor if I actually
would want to be there.’

I was so excited about having a destina-
tion that I didn’t even consider the importance
of the actual getting there.
Yes, I wouldn’t have to take
classes not required generally
or for my major, but I might
miss out on something really

fun or memorable. After all, it result While running between
is usually the deviation of the ' classes, club meetings, social '
normal that particularly sticks CARISSASHIPLEY events, and studying, I under-

out as some sort of defining
moment.

Yes, I would be saving a lot of money, but
that money pays for a wonderful and unique
experience which made me pick W&L over other
schools to start with. Many people of all ages
have told me that their four years of college
was the best of their life. Would I really want
to give one away?

Only three years worth of classes makes
those first term GPAs harder to pull up and a

Enjoy each moment for
what it is and savor the
journey as much as the

degree is still appealing to employers and ad-
missions counselors when obtained in four
years, especially from a school like W&L.

While a numeric value can be put on one
year of studying here, the value of the actual
experience must also be considered.‘
Taking a lesson from the folks back home, I
would encourage students to stop and appre-
ciate what they personally gain
from the time they spend here.
Enjoy each moment for what it
is and savor the journey as
much as the result.

stand how the fast pace of life
and ﬂurry of activity can make
the time ﬂy. Knowing that the pros may out-
weigh the cons and I may only have three years
here, I have begun to appreciate each experi-

ence of life for what it is knowing that I will '

never have another chance to repeat this part
of my life again.

Sometimes slowing the pace of life and
really enjoying can be more rewarding than
concrete accomplishments.

  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
540-3486220 ' l-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

CallforworIrshop&dassinIonnation.

   
     
   
 
    
   
  
 

Halfway between lexington and Staunton
On I-81 / I-64 at exit 205. liaphine. miles west on
Route 606. Raphine R/W /M14‘!/M a working
farm that offers "U-PICK” opportunities for fresh
fruit when in reason.

Tires - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
uiLw.9x§!arnshsn.s29n

   

  

 

    

MARSHAILRUIE
Asst. SPORIS EDIFOR

-_ FMAlL'RIlIE’@WIUE)U

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Defense has

1

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee football opened
its home season with a solid victory
against a tough Sewanee team. The Gen-
erals (1-1) shut out the Tigers (1-2) with a
score of 12-0 at Washington and Lee’s
home ﬁeld.

“We played at a high level of inten-
sity and focus, and we were able to break
open a couple of big plays,” said tenth
year coach Frank Miriello.

The fifty-tliree game history between
the two teams has forged a strong rivalry
with Washington and Lee usually coming
out ahead. Last year, however, the Tigers
pounded them, sparking in the Generals
added impetus to emerge victorious and
prove their ability to the home fans.

After a scoreless ﬁrst quarter, the Gen-
erals came alive with a drive triggered by
excellent special teams play. A blocked
punt positioned Washington and Lee on
their own 45 yard line.

On the first play, quarterback Greg
Tweardy connected with Taylor Callaham
for a 19 yard pickup. Callaham would pull
in four more catches for a total of 51 yards.

After a couple of run plays, the Generals found
themselves with a fourth—and-inches at the 15 yard
line. A successful rush up the middle kept the
drive alive, but four plays later, the team found it-
self in the same position. The coaching staff again
gave the go—ahead signal and with a quarterback
sneak, the Generals scrambled to another first down.

Next, Greg Tweardy turned a broken play into
a clever screen pass for a gain of ﬁve yards. Posi-
tioned on the one yard line, the team surprised their
opponents by running a pass play. Tweardy found
Ryan Sullivan in the comer of the end zone for the
first touchdown on the home field. A blocked field
goal attempt gave the Generals a 6-0 lead over the

 RL\l(3-”l’UM Piii

PORTS

Sewanee team with over 7 minutes remaining in the
first half.

Suffering several commanding sacks, the Ti-
gers found themselves unable to answer, and the
Generals took the lead into the locker room.

A hard fought battle from the opening kickoff,
the General’s defense dominated the ﬁeld. With a
school record nine sacks, the secondary allowed
the opposition few options and little breathing room.

The defensive line stiﬂed the Tiger’s ground
game, giving up just 5 net yards rushing on 44
attempts.

“This game was on the defense- they just
played lights—out football,” said Tweardy.

The second half started out slowly, with each

J ..

team losing possession on quick three—and—outs.
Sewanee intercepted a Tweardy pass, but the de-
fense picked up where the offense left off, and the
Tigers turned it over on downs. A defensive battle
ensued, but the Generals were able to protect their
lead.

After a poor outing in the opener at Alfred,
the rushing squad knew that they had a lot to
prove. With new energy and enthusiasm, the of-
fensive line was able to open up creases for junior
running back Michael Lackett to work his magic.
Lackett had a gaine-high 53 yards and a new long
of 16 yards.

Freshman defensive back Kyle Harvey had a
breakout game, notching ﬁve tackles and two cru-

   

Roc / THEG-M PHI
DEEFENSE. The Generals’ defense held strong against Sewanee, and earned a 12-0 win against the long—time rival.

PAGE 5

record game against historic rival

cial sacks, but his biggest play came with
seven rriinutes remaining in the game.
Perched on a precarious 6-0 lead, the Gen-
erals knew they had to solidify their ad-
vantage. With incredible ﬁeld vision,
Harvey intercepted Sewanee’s pass and
returned it 50 yards for a touchdown.
“The offensive line really pressured the
quarterback, lirriiting his options, and I
was able to read the play and pick it of ,”
said Harvey. The following two point con-
version was unsuccessful, giving the
Generals a 12-0 lead.

defense since the 1998 season. It was
the only interception returned for a touch-
down since 1992.

The Tigers knew that now was the time
to mount a comeback. They tried to rally
by putting together a quick drive, but their
attempt was squelched by a perfectly-
timed interception by freshman Matt
Paulino. This crushed all hope of a late
riposte and solidified the victory for
Washington and Lee.

The tearn’s excitement was contagious,
and the entire fan section jumped to its
feet, where it remained for the ﬁnal minutes.

“The chemistry of this team is terriﬁc. The last few
years have been drudgery, but they are having fun
this year,” said Miriello.

The Generals played a balanced game, with the
defense, special teams and offense doing their part.
“It is important that we keep a positive attitude and
play as a team. We need to deﬁne ourselves as the
smartest team on the ﬁeld,” said Tweardy, who com-
pleted 21-of-32 passes for a total of 107 yards.
Kyle Harvey summed up the game and said, “If we
give this type of effort in the rest of the games, we
should pull out more wins. We can ride this mo-
mentum into the rest of the season and into confer-
ence play.”

Proﬁle: Tom Brower

Freshman cross country runner ‘meant’ to run
Brower wins ﬁrst collegiate race at Washington and Lee Invitational

BY DIANA DOZIER
STAFF WRITER
Tom Brower, from Syracuse, NY, made some
heads turn at the W & L Invitational this past Sat-

urday. Running the strenuous ﬁvemile cross coun-
try course in only 29: 17, Brower broke the tape and

I the record, placing first in the opening meet. And,

he is only a freshman.

Brower was ecstatic on his own win and the
team’s victory, saying that he had hoped to come
in and make an impact his first year, but he could

never have predicted his first place ﬁnish in the
opening race.

Brower thanks Coach Tucker and senior cap-
tains Steve Chambers and AJ Johnson,
complimenting their leadership.

“We are all so close, you can just tell everyone
wants to be there and truly loves the sport. I’ve
never been on a team that is this close,” he said.

Having to recover from mono in order to com-
pete his senior year at the Christian Brothers Acad-
emy, Brower won the 2004 Footlocker North East
M Championship. Improving from

    

florist  garden

his twenty—first place finish from
the prior year, this was his only
other first place ﬁnish in a big
meet before joining the W & L
squad.

After his impressive win, Brower sets his sights
on a successful season, not only for himself per-
sonally, but for the entire W & L team. His goal is
to be distinguished as First- Team All-ODAC, maybe
be an All-Southeast Freshman, and just to be a
“big player in Regional’s.” However, most impor-
tantly, he wants his team to compete at Nationals.
Tom Brower, a drummer and a prospective politics
major, also competes in both winter and spring track,
keeping him running on and off the track year-
round. He says his favorite race is the 5k (a little
more than 3 miles), but runs anything from the 200
meter dash to 10k street races.

When asked why he liked to run, “Not that
question,” he said, laughing. “It’s hard to explain.
It’s just something that feels right. I’m just meant
to do it.”

540.453.9841

603 NORTH LEE HIGHWAY

tIIaiaiI'ersaII@mIaIpIIia/mt
mntztirepieliarsanliaristimdganle/u.-ant

464-'-9042

SCREEN PRINTING
-"--=.__________,-=-

 

EMBROIDERY

637 Waddell St.
Lexington Va.

 

Write for the
Ring—tum Phi

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMATION

FRESI-[MAN CROSS COUNTRY RUNNER TOM BROWER.

E-mail phi @wlu.edu

STRINGED INSTRUMENT
Expert Repair & Set-Up

Guitars &Basses
Acoustic &Electric

"  Local Service/Will Pick up & Deliver!

LEO LORENZONI
Luthier

540-258-1401

ReferencesAvailable

EQUAL TIME

A New Public Affairs

Program

Join host Brian
Murchison
Tuesdays

Listen on

WLUR 91.5 FM
or online at
w|ur.wlu.edu

This touchdown marked the first for they

PAGE 6 ' MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Sibirs
Womens’ soccer

continues winning

LEXINGTON, Va. — Sophomore forward Anne Wrltshire (Rich-
mond, Va./Collegiate) scored a goal and added an assist to help lead
the Washington and Lee women’s soccer team to a 3-0 victory over
Greensboro College on Sunday afternoon at Watt Field.

Wﬂtshire gave the Generals (3-O-2) a 1-0 lead at the 39:56 mark
when she received a pass from sophomore defender Huntley Rodes
(Nashville, TennJHarpeth Hall) and ﬁred it into the back of the Greens-
boro net.

The W&L lead stood at 1-0 until six minutes into the second half
when sophomore midﬁelder Rebecca Cohn (Virginia Beach, Va./N or-
folk Academy) scored an unassisted goal. Less than nine minutes
later, W&L ended the scoring when Wrltshire set up sophomore for-
ward Sarah Helms (Charlotte, N.C./Myers Park), who scored her ﬁrst

 

goal of the year.

The Pride ( 1-4-1) was outshot 17-6 and had a 6-2 disadvantage in

comer kicks.

W&L senior goalkeeper Emily Barker (Clifton, VaJMount Vernon)
made three saves to secure her fourth shutout of the season.

On Saturday, the Generals played a close game with Randolph-
Macon College. The Generals stole the win (1-0) with the only goal
scored by the Randolph-Macon goal keeper when she accidentally

kicked the ball into her own net.

Senior goal-keeper Emily Barker played goalie, making 3 saves
for the Generals. She claimed her third shutout of the season.
On Wednesday, the team handily defeated Randolph-Macon

Womens’ College 8-0.

-Phi staff writer Sarah Bloom contributed to this story.

CHAD Kn-:wrET DEJONGE THE R1NG—TUM PHI

DOWN THE LINE. Forward Anne Wiltshire dribbles down the outside as a Randolph-Macon defender approaches to challenge her. On Sunday,

W/iltshire scored a goal and recorded an assist as the Generals defeated Greensboro, 3-0.

NFL Preview: Parity in league should make for an exciting season

I am a Miami Dolphins fan and I’m excited about
the new NFL season. I know, it doesn’t make sense,
but despite my team’s newfound suckiness I still
have reason to smile, and it isn’t just from thinking
about Shaq (still makes me giddy every time I see
him on TV).

So what about this NFL season could possi-
bly be so great? Parity. There, I said it. For some
reason that word gets such a nega-

one apparent weakness: wide receiver. They did far
more than just fill the whole though. Terrell Owens
gives them someone to turn to for a big play other
than Donovan McNabb and makes the wide re-
ceiver position a strength for this team. Then they
add Jevon Kearse on top of it. I can’t think of a
better ﬁt for the pass rushing scheme of the Eagles
without turning to my beloved Jason Taylor. . .and

the Eagles can’t have him. But

tive reaction these days, but I think HEALTHY VENTING in my opinion the edition of T0
it’s the best thing to happen to foot- , alone makes them the most in-
ball. Before writing this my NFLpre- RYAN GRITTER 07 timidating team in the NFL and
view article I was thinking about the favorites in the NFC to make

what teams I thought were the clear-cut favorites. I
came up with the Patriots and the Eagles and then
about 8 to 10 other teams that have a legitimate
chance.

The makeup of the NFL is very similar now to
baseball. The Pats and Eagles are the Yankees and
Red Sox of football, and the rest of the league is
anybody’s guess. In this case, though, it’s my
guess, so without further ado, here are the teams
that I view as the prime contenders for the Super
Bowl.

-New England Patriots — This list has to start
with the reigning champs, especially when the reign-
ing champs get signiﬁcantly stronger in the off-
season. For the last three years the Pats have sur-
prised us all as they win with limited talent on of-
fense, especially in the running game. We’ve ex-
plained their success as a result of the brilliance of
Brian Belichick and Offensive Coordinator Charlie
Weis. So take their scheme that has already won 2
Super Bowls in 3 years and add Corey Dillon at half
back and it’s just scary. . .even if Corey Dillon isn’t
as good as in Cincinatti.

°Philadelphia Eagles — The other clear con-
tender is, of course, the Eagles. After three con-
secutive losses in the NFC championship game the
Eagles did the same as the Pats, they filled their

the Super Bowl. . .or join a support group with early
90’s Bills fans.

°Seattle Seahawks — The Seahawks are a popu-
lar pick this season, and with good cause. Last
year they made the playoffs despite a weak de-
fense because of their skill position players, who
could be the best in the league. QB Matt Hasselbeck
had a breakout year and should do the same this
year throwing to Koren Robinson and Darrel Jack-
son and Bobby Engram, who put up stellar num-
bers for a third receiver. VVrth Shaun Alexander at
HB the offense isn’t questioned, but the defense
must improve. The Seahawks worked hard to do
this in the off-season by attaining the likes of Grant
Vifrstrom and 15‘ Round pick Marcus Tubbs. The
defense doesn’t have to be amazing, and it should
be good enough to give them a shot in the playoffs
provided the offensive core stays healthy.

-Denver Broncos — It appears the Broncos will
be able to run without Clinton Portis, which just
further solidiﬁes Shanahan and the rest of the
coaching staff as offensive masterminds compa-
rable to the Belichick and Weis. It creates a great
system whereby they can trade a star halfback for
any need and someone else will simply step in and
rush for 1500 yards. 1 mean, Mike Anderson ran for
almost 1500 yards in 2000, and what does he play

now?...fullback. Vifrth a solid running game and an
emerging star at QB in Jake “the Snake” Plummer
they’ll still be able to put up plenty of points, and
the additions of S John Lynch and CB Champ
Bailey their defense should ﬁnally be strong enough
to let them run the clock out a little.

-Tennessee Titans — The Tennessee Titans are
basically what the Atlanta Falcons aspire to be.
They have a strong defense every year and a dy-
namic, playmaking quarterback who can lead an
effective offense without an effective rushing at-
tack. They suffered big losses on the defensive
line, but this team always seems to rise above it
and have a dominant run defense no matter who
they lose. Perhaps Jeff Fisher deserves all the credit
he’s given. Either way, Eddie George wasn’t a loss
at all, and in fact ﬁnally clears the way for someone
else to start now they no longer are obligated to
him. Chris Brown should be refreshing for Tennes-
see fans and should be a great fit since he’s not
asked to carry the team, McNair has that under
control. Look for the emer-
gence of WR Tyrone Calico,
who physically is compared
to Terrell Owens and David
Boston 3 years ago, to keep
this receiving core ridicu-
lously deep.

-Green Bay Packers —
It’s been said that you can’t
win a Super Bowl without a
dynamic quarterback, unless
you have a record—setting
defense (Ravens). Anyways, the Packers certainly
have that in Brett Favre, and despite the unimpres-
sive receiving core we must remember that these
receivers were selected by Brett Favre and he’s
extremely comfortable with them. But the passing
game is far less impressive than the running game,
led by Ahman Green. Green had 2000 total yds, 20

The makeup of the NFL is
Very similar now to
baseball. The Pats and
Eagles are the Yankees and
Red Sox of football, and
the rest of the league is
anybody’s guess.

total TD’s, and averaged 5.3 yards per carry. Green
and Favre create a beautifully balanced offense.
Granted they have huge defensive concerns, I’m
never going to count Brett Favre out of the Super
Bowl hunt. And if he says their going to win one, I
think we should listen. The intangibles that come
along with a guy like Favre are unmatched by any
player in the league not named Ray Lewis.

About now all the Kansas City, Baltimore, and
Carolina fans are gripping the paper rather tight.
These teams’ are in fact contenders, but not quite
on the caliber of the above six. KC has huge defen-
sive concerns revealed by Jake Plummer and
Quentin Griffin. . ...ouch. The Ravens of course have
no quarterback. This might not stop them from con-
tending, as Trent Dilfer proved, and any team with
Ray Lewis and a 2000 yd rusher certainly has a
chance. . ...especially one notorious for slow starts.
And remember, the Pats started last year 0-2. Caro-
lina I believe was a bit of a ﬂuke last year, similar to
the Bears a few years back who had a miracle sea-
son with many close victo-
ries. They won’t be horrible,
probably something like 8-8,
but they won’t be in the Su-
per Bowl this year. The Fal-
cons of course can’t be
counted out if Michael Vick
is healthy, since he already
brought them to the playoffs
once on his own and with a
far weaker receiving core.
Now he has weapons but no
defense....who knows? Here’s my sleeper pick
though, the New York Jets. As much as I hate it,
they always seem to be really good or really bad,
and Chad Pennington had the highest completion
% in the NFL last year. Add a rejuvenated Curtis
Martin and they have the potential to mix things up
a bit this year.

Henry--4

Wednesday

‘ M Soccer at Emory and :

' W Soccer vs. Hollins-—4:30

Mall

40,000 Square Feet
160+ Dealers

or apartment.

Sunday 11a.m.- 6 p.m.
(540) 464-5555

The Antique  

760 N. Lee Highway
College Square Shopping Center

Area's Largest Antique Mall, specializing in used
furnifureand “cool" accessories for1ina),‘,cooJ" house.--

There's something for everyone!
Monday—5aturday 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.

   
  

1 Invitational——4:30  l

: Mennonite--5230

Fnday
Volleyball at Emory

° Field Hockey at Eastern 

Want to write
about sports?
Join us at
THE RING-TUM PHI

wvvw.ststrave|.com.

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or

 
  

Energetic, Enthusiastic, & Motivated?

If you ﬁt these three categories call

MEMORIAL GARDENS

We have a full-time position for our sales
staff and one for a family service counselor.
Clafééiiiiiéludéé paid training and all
company beneﬁts apply.

Don’t wait, call today!

Sunday

I A, ' W Soccer at Chowan--1

ROCKBRIDGE

today at 

 

 

I_4O0KING FOR OPTIONS. Brian   8.5 he iOOkS t0 P2155. ThC YIICUS, SOCCCI team  of  upper-Classnlen tealnmates.

4 Bridgewater 1-1 on Saturday.

 - - SPGRTS

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Dominating performance ends in
1-1 tie for mens’ soccer team

BY DIANA DOZIER
STAFF WIUTER

The mens’ soccer team tied Bridgewater this past Sat11r—

day l—1 in their second home match.

~ The beginning of the match began slowly for the Gener-

als, with the Eagles dominating posses-
sion for the first seven minutes of the
match. A shot from an Eaglesforward ap-
peared to be in the back of the net had the
Bridgewater fans on their feet.

However, senior captain Peter Miller
made a clutch defensive play, booting the
ball out. “With this save, Miller created a
spark that they needed, and the Generals
took possession of the game.

With thirteen minutes left in the first
half, senior midfielder Justin Mygatt
passed a beautiful through ball to fresh-
man Court Nexsen. Nexsen maneuvered
by an Eagle defender and then fmessed a
left footed shot past the goalkeeper.

As a freshman, Nexsen came into the
season “open for anything” and not even
sure if he would get any playing time.

respect for the upperclassmen,” he said, taking the oppor-

tunity to comment on the leadership.
The first half ended optimistically with the Generals

winning 1-0.

The second half produced much more fouling, rough

play, and questionable calls. Senior Brian Pirkle was given

 

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMATION
FRESHMAN COURT NEXSEN.

a yellow card with tliirty-eight minutes left in the second

half. Moments later, Bridgewater
scored a goal due to a goalkeeping
scoff in the goal box, bringing the game
to atie at 1-1.

Otherwise, the defense played
a solid game, allowing only 7 shots on
goal. On the other end of the ﬁeld the
Generals’ offense responded with more
than twice as many shots than the
Eagles. However, even
though W & L dominated much of the
possession throughout the game, the
end of regulation ended in a 1-1 tie,
sending the teams into double over-
time.

Even in extra minutes, the Gen-
erals continued to dominate, creating
multiple scoring opportunities, though
none resulted in a goal,

Scoring in both the Bridgewater game and the victory against
Southern Virginia, Nexsen accredited the goals to his hard
work over the summer and, of course, the skill and intensity

The Generals, view the game as a stepping stone, know-
ing that they have to work harder to accomplish their goal
of winning the ODAC conference and competing in the
NCAA tournament. They will travel to Emory and Henry

‘‘I have a lot of fun at practice and just have a world of this Wednesday in hopes of their first ODAC win.

T H I s P A s T W E E 14 ‘f P

W&L men finished second of 28
teams, while the women ﬁnished
ﬁfth of 22 teams.

Leading the way for the
men’s team, which was bested
only by Wesleyan University,
was junior Nathan Johnson (Lex-
ington, Va./Rockbridge County)
who placed fourth out of 242 mn-
ners with a time of 27: 15. Fresh-
man Tom Brewer (Syracuse,
N.Y./Christian Brothers Acad-
emy)fiz1ished 14th with a time of

27:50, while fellow classmate

Alex Mahoney {Winnetka Ill./
New ’I‘rier Academy) crossed the

” man’ Lindsay Erickson.

 

cape:n1s:hp1ac¢.(27:sVs)_ V V
Onthe womeifs side" ‘sh-~

Spring,Md./Stoiie[1‘j{iV£ig ,
the pace-setter’,  ‘ﬁf
out of 240 runners with a  o
20:84. Sophomoreiffigap V:
(Nashville, “i*c&:i:.7;#Iaxpe
placed,14th overall (20;44 . 
juniorlaetsy Frayer,.(<3ran " “ 
ids, Mich.lEast5:Graii§,.V V M '
ﬁnished 23rd with atirneof2.i:V£).E}.v
Washington  Iretums

  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  

action on Sat,V.Oc”t. 2,, A
hosts the Generais’ Invitatioglalig _
atl0:00am.  . 

 
 

4
Cross country
competes at N YU
‘ u 1
Invitational
\X/&L SPORTS RELEASE
A
NEW YORK, N.Y.-——The
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams
were in action on Saturday as
‘ they competed in the New York
University Invitational at Van
Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. The
A.

« Buy

A

.Prizes provided by:

 

 
 
   
  

mat Q‘>’>.‘2f?~§)$.‘§l'I§l§  Maw}: amt! Wm Gmm: he '
elﬁay Asmlnissg 1?‘ IS. i"v./it t.ktI;1i§’s and 11:1! 2. . .
acd. vim} and the cﬂ-iiy logo are g '

your cex¢i.ooi.so.. eBay
and save up to 

  
   

G3

Anythinﬁ’:
points ﬂ

avg» we piizres fzrw rims: piopxilflt’ xc >;:Irra_xol<.~ on '<e¥£a;u:mn (hating Jzinuayy Etitlrl. with the liarxprice of (harm books. .   _’ 

- at §2~f.V.) gm PITT S.-'£ﬂJiM wit! coal; at W5‘? PM FD’? 9i3{}»*’1)4.   of V
totes. go M Wwozeliay,cxiimcxﬁlcggctuies * _

J miclumrirks of eBay inc. Designated trademarks and brands are the pmpetiy ofﬁxeir msyecﬁw owners}.

   

the list price.

as!‘
.9
.-=‘‘
v
.u-''''
..v’
.0-
4-‘
,1

-0"’
u

..
u-'
av"
1"‘
C‘ ’-‘

veﬁgzwimiess T

 

 

  

L
PAGE 8 MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 20, 2004
NwFshinit luditw d’ r nil kirt ‘
e a 0 saappa s ee ,jee spe c s s
BY EMILY EDWARDS Segal and Marc Jacobs actually know what they’re doing. So Poncho. For those of you who can pull this look off, I con— lg
ARTS AND LIFE ED1ToR get a tweed jacket, or two, or even go for a whole suit! The gratulate you. My jury is still out. UGG Australia offers a
jacket will look great with jeans, and the skirt will be cute with rather cute shearling poncho, but these other things look like
Fall is upon us. Labor day has come and gone, and soon, a couple of James Perse tees. If jackets are not your thing, go one of my knitting projects gone terribly wrong. In the words
the leaves will be changing into beautiful permutations of am- for a pair of cute Kate Spade slingbacks. They’ll definitely of my roommate, “You may as well just wear a garbage bag
ber, rust, and gold. spruce up that mini you’re dying to wear. around your shoulders.” If your heart desireth to wear said i
But enough of that cheesiness. Fall means new styles. poncho, please don’t overdo it- wear a pair of jeans and a
Ladies, for the love of God, we do not live in Palm Beach. If we Pencil Skirts. They’re not for the office anymore. J. Crew, solid-colored tee or sweater.
did, those marvelous Lilly Pulitzer sundresses would be more Banana Republic, most of W&L’s signature stores are selling *
than appropriate. Bu.t Lexington is a far cry from Palm Beach, them this fall. A word of warning... if you are pear-shaped, do So there you have it. Denim is still hot, with 7 for all -’
and it is after Labor Day. Please, do us all a gargantuan favor, your fellow students a favor and leave the skirt on the rack. Mankind facing some serious competition from Earnest Sewn
and delicately pack up your sundresses for the year. Easter Otherwise, you may find yourself and your Manolos lying and True Religion. Waistlines won’t be so low either— ‘
really isn’t that far away. For those of you who can simply not sprawled on the Colonnade. Recruitment’s Philanthropy night thanks designers for that
do without, Lilly offers a lovely Fall collection. Otherwise, one. This wouldn’t be a fashion column if I didn’t at least
pull out your long—sleeved Lacoste polos and keep on going. Juicy. Once a staple of West Coast wardrobes, these marvel- touch on accessories. Longchamp.com has mimicked Polo.com i
For those of you who, in absence of Lilly, need a little ous tracksuits should be in every .girl’s closet. Velour, ﬂeece, and now features a “Create your very own ‘Le Pliage’ Bag.” In
more fashion advice than the classic Alligator shirt, I have a terry... the styles and color choices are endless. They’re per— just four easy steps, you can personalize one of these classy
few ideas for you to consider (or not consider as it were). fect for the Sunday morning brunch gossip sessions, when Le Pliage bags, complete with your initials embossed on the
you’re ridiculously hung-over but still want to look decent. trademark bag ﬂap. You’ll just have to wait three weeks for L
'I\iveed. The word is synonymous with the House of Chanel, as Pair your tracksuit of choice with some Puma sneakers, and delivery.
my fellow fashion gurus will note. But for those of us plebe— your friends just may not remember how many cups of grain ‘Since this is my column and my section, I would just like to
ians who would rather not drop $3000 on a classic suit, tweed you really had last night. Juicy also offers cute miniskirts and add that Tennessee won and LSU lost on Saturday. God I love
has gone mainstream. Some stores, such as Hot Topic, have their corduroy trousers are perfect for the upcoming cold College Football!
butchered the once-classy look, but others, including Shelli weather. ' 1

’l’HE  PHi&

EMLYEDWARIJS
AKlS&l.lFEEDl’IOR

mm m

LIFE

The W&L Bookstore Presents...

Student Book of the

BY R03 ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRITER

ways stuck to his values and kept his word.”
Jarczyk remembered Parmenter for his “wry
sense of humor which dispelled discouragement

Washington and Lee, Sigma Nu honor Pannenter ,

    
 
 
 

 
     

   

   

  

  [Zach] stood strong and gave us all strength.” L
The Washington and Lee community assembled Jarczyk was studying in China when he re-
, Saturday evening at Robert E. Lee Chapel in memo— ceived the news of Parmenter’s death: “It was a
riam of Zachary Alan Parmenter. Anative of Ohio, phone call you hope never happens to you  I
When ESPN started broadcasting in September Parmenter was 3 rising felt Very’ Ve’Yb‘”°l’l‘°l-1 I “led .
1979, some people thought that a network de— lS(:’l‘l’l:‘d°l”r‘l°a’:al‘l:’lhcea“r :‘c:lgVe::  Smmg “t a t° Cope
voted to sports was a crazy idea. Twenty-five that occurred on July 27’ ' Bemle Campbell .05, amemlm
years later, those people can only marvel at what 2004, _ of Sigma Nu, was at a concert
has transpired, ESPN is the undisputed leader in The University’s acting when he noticed that he had it
Spar-1-5’ and 1-his quirky and informed-ﬁve book chaplain, William. “Burr” ;‘Il1SSCd'CallS frlom sexljerall of his
Ce'eb"°*e5*“"-"e*W°"‘<5°m°Z‘"9!°"d °*‘*e" §.“Sf;i’§fd‘?§e‘2$$.3‘;Z’;51:? i§3§Zi“ifZg’L‘f f.f3;h.§’i‘li.“§§.I.e‘3
. . . l l " 9
    G l   ebratlon of the llfe of Zach one who knew what had hap_
classic Sportscenter commercials! The perfect Pa;memer,”who wammem- pened. Campbell said, “I don’t «‘
gift for any sports fan, including yourself. bered. among other things. remember much of that phone call,
for his “hospitable humor but when I got off the phone, I
- . - . and genuine interest in oth— was sitting on the ground.”
Regular price. $25.00 This week. _$20.00 mg, Both Campbell and Jarczyk A
Speakers read from the H spoke of the “struggle” to cope
Old and New Testaments as With their friend’s death.
well as giving personal Campbell believes that
$p%' statements, As a freshman, Parmenter’s death at a young age ll
I 1  I Parmenter became actively “reminds us of the fragility of life
i i  , H _ gag involved in General Chris—  but we must trust in God’s eter-
V " "  " I  tian Fellowship, Kierstin L, nal wisdom, that his reasons are
25 MlNIl~BE8B§N8 £Y£~?ﬂP?ll'il8 Schmidt ’05 described right and good.”
Parmenter as a person who Sigma Nu member Geoffrey J. ;_

Ctll3't3RE~MﬂRPH!N5 Y ABS 8!‘ HI-5HLiEH1'S
A , i ’ I .  =  Corey Harmon ’05, led theSigma
Nu Funeral Rite before the
service’s end. Campbell de—
scribed the ritual as “a sign of
commitment and collective grief as a brotherhood.” ‘
Parmenter was born on March 28, 1984. He is sur-
vived by one sister and his parents, Jan and Robert

Parmenter, who were in attendance and accompanied

if

  

“really did live out his
faith,” and someone who
was “thirsty for the word of
God.”

Among the crowd were the members of the Sigma
Nu fraternity, which Parmenter had joined during his
freshman year. One of his fraternity brothers, Adam
Jarczyk ’06, said the brotherhood “always described

  

     

        

 
  
 

       

Zach as a solid guy  [He] was like a rock. He al- by President B11riSh- A
VVhat 0 Id 0 like to see
0 O ‘W O O K
in Life . Email suggestions .
I h'@ 1 d “
to p 1 W u.e u ,
l
A
'%"Ir*Iir%i‘h§i§I'II'Iiz‘Ir¥"h'§i'i'5$."I‘W'I‘§'B'i%‘E¥$‘hI'i'§'k'k$'iIi5§§¥'l?h§$5'h'E$z'¥¥i$¥$$'B¥‘§ f
’ ' V '- *3‘  ' V t. .
     4  .. ,. If .. l
nutoeenter ’“t““”““““‘”‘“  
   “W Orjamaoﬁraiuefaurﬁii lf9UG*lNEr!ITBiﬁm' -ll
" aimsmsammmraanmmmmmammmmmmmm "!""ef!lW*5ﬁ#$l'f”*l °*e°lggﬁ*lfl*‘W
¥ﬁﬁ%H$»he£Im$ u %lUlW%W8  l‘
as my mum.  .  ~8ewM-%r7Dewe ' _ A ’ “M L
_ ,  . i  . .. . _ -oaeyHut— awiiimt-mi
ammo uuimia-miuismmwmuuumnniai, Mmlwﬂﬁpmmllmlm
G» ‘W511?!  ﬁt “NEE lﬁﬂ. it F8!!!‘ 0  f  «Ir l
asunamna run an new. :11 4» emcmirmn «is , ﬁewcemimeeswemwwew ’
i ‘ lug  " " " jg[;.$§ﬁ_j{ MET 0  *,".lﬂI|lilI'" W”,  Onktﬂxeakﬁa 24HouxaaD:y,$eVcndaysa1voek!
gggmgs   ; iiiniwtmmumniior ;; ‘mail,  W 3,; al 4 .,
Q  O ’” "  .  " "* ' '.'.!‘ ..“' I 5 V LEEBITRAVEL PLAZA
 “T8 VH5‘ 335- 5“  H !»&t!aIsI«64,kx:'r195,£1£2iomaz..xxnwY,im1oN,vA
:BlueBaitge mile center . 549-463-3478   ,
1/ 1‘!3l‘§iiVtlvaﬁsfiiﬂiiﬁ-ﬂtlitfaike »l¥I‘i%t3'a Vista. on ¥.i4’H]~i2l3"!~-93}'7 , , .3,,,,,:,,,,,,,‘,,,,,,.,m,,,,,,
2its-is-ism.-si-5.1.-iii-sin.-wasas-5-is-mu.1.55-kmnsmaiaissmqiasatmmmmaemaiasisisissnsassissmaasaesau» " Aneﬂius Feed We 8:11?! Tove!

X.

PAGE 9

 Piilg

LIFE

EM1LYED\vARos

A1ns&LIEEEDnoR _ _

mm m

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Music and Politics: Can they ever really go together ‘.7

BY BLAIR CRUNK
STAFF WRITER

October 1, 2004 will bring the kick-off of the
Vote For Change Tour, “a loose coalition of mu-
sicians brought together by a single idea—the
need to make a change in the direction of this
country.” Musicians including Bruce
Springsteen, John Mellencamp, the Dixie Chicks,
Dave Matthews Band, Pearl Jam, and R.E.M.
(among others) will be traveling around the coun-
try making stops in several “battleground
states” for the 2004 Presidential Election such
as Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio, and Florida.
According to Dave Matthews, “A vote for
change is a vote for a stronger, safer, healthier
America. A vote for Bush is a vote for a divided,
unstable, paranoid America. It is our duty to this
beautiful land to let our voices be heard. That’s
the reason for the tour. That’s why I’m doing it.”
As one can imagine, this mixing of politics and
music is earning both strong praise and great
disapproval from citizens across the country —
and also from several musicians not involved
with the tour.

Two of these musicians opposed to the tour,
shock rocker Alice Cooper (Alice in Chains) and
singer/songwriter Paul Westerberg are speak-
ing out against the Vote For Change Tour. “To
me, that’s treason,” Cooper said. “I call it trea-
son against rock ‘n’ roll because rock is the an-

tithesis of politics.” Cooper went on to say
that “if you’re listening to a rock star in order
to get your information on who to vote for,
you’re a bigger moron than they are. Why are
we rock stars? Because we’re morons. We sleep
all day, we play music at night and very rarely
do we sit around reading the Washington Jour-
nal.” Westerberg agrees saying that “it’s oil
and water when rock ‘n’ roll mixes with poli-
tics. To me it’s just wrong.”

Before I proceed any further, it should be
noted that I am in no way trying to promote
John Kerry’s presidential campaign. I am sim-
ply a proponent of the upcoming tour for
music’s sake. With that said, let me give my
reasoning as to why the upcoming Vote for
Change tour is not a stupid, even politically
incorrect thing.

Why are Bruce Springsteen, the Dixie
Chicks, John Mellencamp, the Dave Matthews
Band, and others going out on this tour? For a
cause...am I right? This particular cause is to
raise awareness for a change in this country,
namely electing John Kerry as the next United
States President. Now, let’s look at things in a
different light. Each year, a group of artists
(including VVrllie Nelson, Neil Young, and John
Mellencamp, among others) get together for a
benefit concert with Farm Aid. You may have
heard of it. Farm Aid “works to keep family
farmers on the land,” according to the

organization’s website. In other words, Farm
Aid’s goal is to ﬁght bad farm policy and help
family farmers keep their jobs instead of having
their land taken over by commercial, money-hun-
gry developers. This benefit concert takes all
the proceeds from the concert (tickets, merchan-
dise, etc.) and puts it towards Farm Aid’s cause.

Now, ask yourself this question. What do
the Vote For Change Tour and the Farm Aid ben-
efit concert have in common? They each pro-
vide performing artists who are passionate about
a single cause. To me, passion is what drives
music. Music without passion is like a car with
out an engine. It just doesn’t work! What do
people sing about? Toby Keith sings about
being an “angry American” and “putting a boot
in” Osama Bin Laden’s [expletive deleted]. He’s
entitled to that idea. He’s passionate about it.
In the same light, John Mellencamp sings that
“it’s worse now since he came / From Texas to
Washington.” He is, of course, talking about
President George W. Bush. Mellencamp is en-
titled to that opinion. He’s passionate about it.
Although I disagree with Mellencamp’s stance, I
appreciate the fact that he is singing with passion,
with power, and for a purpose in which he believes.

Whether the cause is for cancer or to raise
drug awareness, for farmers or a presidential elec-
tion, I say to the artists with great passion for
whatever platform may arise — follow your heart
and play your music to benefit what you be-

lieve in. After all, isn’t that what this great coun-
try is all about? You may say that you don’t
think these artists should be using their profes-
sion to inﬂuence people’s votes. You may say
that their job is to play music, just like my job is
to be a W&L student. A strong difference exists
there, however, because musicians are involved
in a very unique profession. Not every job can
reach hundreds, thousands, oftentimes mi ions
of people each year like musicians can. hese
artists have the special opportunity t reach
people through studio release albums and live
concerts. With that opportunity comes an im-
portant chance for these artists to stand up for
their beliefs, ignite their passion, and follow
through with it in their music.

The point here is that the musicians in-
volved with the Vote For Change Tour are, by no
means, overstepping their boundaries. It’s not
like James Taylor, Jackson Browne, and Ben
Harper (among others) are going to Wisconsin,
Missouri, and the other “battleground states”
giving speeches or hosting political rallies.
They’re not even going to change the lyrics in
their songs to promote John Kerry for the presi-
dency. That would be silly.

All they are doing is playing music. And they
are playing it for a purpose.

For more information on the Vote For
Change Tour, visit http://www.moveonpac.org/
vfc.

International Film Festival leaves Texas to entertain Washington and Lee

BY VICTORIA CHILDRESS
STAFF WRITER

The international WorldFest festival has left its native
Houston, Tex., for the first time and come to Lexington. Nine
full—length movies and eight short films played over the course

of the weekend in the Commons Theater.

Over 100 movies were played and judged in Houston, and
festival founder J. Hunter Todd emphasized that the 17 se-

lected for W&L were the cream of the crop.

He has written, directed, produced, or filmed over 300 short
and full—length films and won more than 115 international

awards.

Started in 1961, WorldFest is the third oldest indepen-

nity to meet ten directors and writers. WorldFest held a
barbecue on Sept. 17 and a directors’ brunch on Sept.

18.

an identical twin himself.

It was taped in Toronto during the SARS outbreak,
and the film crew had to go through quarantine before
they could start working on the movie.

At the brunch, Jordan Barker spoke about “My
Brother’s Keeper,” an inspirational tale about identical
twin brothers who want to win the world rowing cham-
pionships. Barker, who wrote and directed the film, is

chronicles all the Apollo missions.
Will Townes ’07 named “For All Mankind” as his favorite

WorldFest selection. “The director didn’t insert anything — it was

the actual footage the astronauts took. It really gave it to you
without any biases.”

Townes also enjoyed the short ﬁlm “Does God Play Football?”,
by British director Mike Walker. This is the touching story of an

Irish boy who does not have a father, so he assumes that he must

They also had only four days to film all

the rowing scenes. “If it had rained, we

The theme of WorldFest

be the son of God.
‘The little boy was so full of life,” Townes said.

Other selections included “The Affair,” a story of
one woman’s self—exploration by Belgian director
Carl-J an Copacrt.

would have been screwed,” Barker re-
marked.

dent film festival in the US. It has given a start to many promi-
nent writers and directors, including Ang Lee, Ridley Scott,

William Amtz, Betsy Chasse, and Mark Vicente

is a good story well told
co-directed the documentary “What the #$*! Do

Oliver Stone, and the Cohen brothers. Stephen Spielberg’s .Aaron Ashmore portrayed both broth- -LHUI IIERTODD We Kiiow?”, in which a Greek chorus of scientists
‘( Amblin Entertainment company is named after his short film ers. His real-life twin, Shawn, played the IVORIDFEYTFOMVDER guides a woman on a journey through quantum

which was spotted by a talent scout at WorldFest.
W&L alumnus John Dean organized and sponsoredrthe
event. After making his first movie at age six, he is now head
,4 of Magic Lantern Entertainment.

“My focus for the entire event is on the students,” he
said at the start of the festival. “I want them to learn about
film, have a great time, and enjoy this art. Film really is the art
form of the 20th century.”

4- The Student Affairs Office co-sponsored the event.
Wes Jarrell, a first—year law student, was excited about at-
tending WorldFest. “I’ve not been to a film festival here, but
I went to the Black Maria Film Festival at my undergrad school
A. several years,” he said. “That’s the only one that tours the
US and actually ends up at Sundance. So I’m hoping to get
the same kind of cultural experience out of this.”
In addition to watching independent movies that normally
would not come to theaters, students also had the opportu-

twin double, and has also appeared as Ice-
nrairin the*“X-Men” movies. ’

Ersi Danou talked about her film, “A Sea Apart.”
This movie deals with the parallel stories of two women,
one in Greece, and the other a Greek immigrant in the
US. Both are trying to find love and a place to belong.
“It’s a very personal story about nostalgia and how life
takes you different places,” Danou said.

“I can relate to the strained relationship between
the main characters,” said Yvonne Coker ’08, “and to
the cultural differences, because both my parents are
from Sierra Leone. I thought it was wonderful, very
refreshing.”

Although it was released in theaters several years
ago, the classic “Apollo 13” played on Saturday night,
and writer Al Reinert attended the festival. Friday night
featured his documentary “For All Mankind,” which

physics.
“Bache1orMan,” directed by John Putch, was a
romantic comedy about a ladies man who finally falls in love.
“Miss Cast Away” made fun of all things Hollywood while
showing a group of beauty queens who crash on a deserted island.
It featured cameos by Evan Marriott and Michael Jackson as “Agent
MJ.”

The festival closed with “The Shadow of the Blade,” a docu-
mentary about a restored Vietnam War helicopter that recently ﬂew
to 42 Landing Zones across the country while carrying the soldiers
who served on it during the war.

“The theme of WorldFest is a good story well told,” said Todd.
“We’re very delighted to bring you this ‘best of the fest’ selec-
tion.”

Charlie Clarke '05 summed up WorldFest’s general effect. “I
was duly impressed by the international ﬂavor that came to such a
small place as Lexington.”

 

   

 
  
 

.4
- I
‘iﬂl€Si0n€ ‘Dance Studio BO DY PUMP
n M 10 South Randolph Street - Lexington, VA 24450 _
WWW-haleswne-Com New Fall Classes New Forming
Yoga & Dance Condrtlonmg Aerobics - Yoga - Cycles - Weights
A Promoting Personal Discovery Through
the Body-Mind in Movement . V
(540) 463-1444 ® 
"”‘"""' ‘rm is
4 . ROCKBRIDGE
¢ Summit Sq. Shopping Ctr, 146 Walker St, Lexington
  464-YMCA
  4      - A
E PHYS Ice 1'. Tr-1r;1ULPY R r     -  
E. (:r.'IF‘£.” ’wr'i.ir.la;;n&: in mind  I I  j I   I I I ‘ 
453-5533   T . Vi/6/('0/776 §f//&?/7¢8./ .
';jl,iST{-il'r,::r=ll'IlT.rE:£'l.-I’!l:Ir':;’ S     I i 1».  E . /sts ,~,,
a I1£1,i,"bDn,1lr'.»3l V . ’
A . .  . , ._...;. F 1 We invite you to take C3/700tS
lLnlic;p. Sr,,..ru.r-ﬁ'.Ir..rj:11'|1l,!=--e-- , _ A _ A g _ _ _ _
I ’ n _ 3:. 1- V . . . C1 WCllk.dOWn. Lexm ton, Vrrgrnra
'- *°F"°"’*""’  ‘ '5 Washington Street-and ~ 9
_ meet some _
j ' §i;,s.'-c;aliz§.ng in: & I I A, lOC0l Q54»?-w4fcr4rtEts1:r:cohoots.com
 L wa:r:l.f3?.:°;::',?l‘;.n- 
« - ‘ Eninai Ereussrmaqrr  . '   t         ’      
I F'osa-fill" n_=|I3l-Iilimtiﬂll I I   P4//rzf//gs - Wood Cary//gs - P//ofogm/2/rs - Poffery
. . .   V : ﬁn/rd?/df/fed]? e//' - /45$
« F.!'IEr'.1:5?n'1£?iT3:{€Ir,3‘f€-},st.ily£I:i3pEd}£"ﬂ’iFf1'«5‘i1I§f¥‘¢313?’{35H§" F 74¢ / ted, ;_  J? . ﬁ
* ,.,,,,,.,..,,.;-.m wigs: ..-no .g;='a;£«rr!‘orrr y-arr .n'r«:4_r-' am-:-. carmmrrrrzs-arm /3 4 0 _ 4” 5*/”.4 0”
:reanr.renr, U")-"1-'¥'ilr“g'-(~",1§‘,‘,',,gf‘-‘f]7',I,’,'.';,‘,!”, E in - . ~ — ‘
X.

 

’ been rewarded with a good

PAGE 10

THE

  
 

int: Rri\rc~’itM Pill

AST ORD

     
  

EMILYFJDWARIXS
AKIS&LlFEEDl'IOR

mm m

MONDAY, SEIYIEMBER 20, 2004

Potato Man oﬁers insight into typical ﬁuttasitic weekend

I think nearly every independent emailed a letter in response to
my first article. I just want to say thank you for being the first group
of people that I pissed off. It really is an honor that not only people
read what I write but that some people actually take me serious.

You took time out of your day to tell me that I was an idiot or
didn’t know what I was talking about. That is time of your life that
you will never get back, and it was wasted on being

8:00 pm — The party doesn’t start for another hour, but a few
freshmen are already at the house. They want to make sure they get
in at least 2 hours of partying, before they have to be home at 10.
Why most the freshmen go home before midnight is a question that
may never be answered, but deﬁnitely needs to be changed.

9:00 pm — The kids that came at 8 left half an hour ago because

“this party sucked.” But now that the party is

mad at me, a sophomore who writes this article every POTATO MAN supposed to get started people slowly start to
week out of boredom and to make my resume longer fill in, but it’s just a big sausage party.
than one line, MARSHALL RULE 9:30 pm —— The girls come over in large

The reason those of you who wrote letters had
time to take out of your day, was that you have little to do socially.
Now before I get a lot more irate emails, I shall clarify I am talking
about the independent male population. Independent girls go out
and have just as much fun as the srat girls. Meanwhile (most, not all)
the guys sit in their dorm rooms in Gaines all day; while we “frat
boys” are spending our time making sure that the rest of the school
has a place to enjoy a few choice beverages and social activity.

So, to show the rest of the school how 79% of the guys at this
school spend their time, I have developed a timeline of the typical
weekend.

4200 pm — After a full day of classes it’s ﬁnally time to meet at
the party house to party proof it from the belligerent drunks.

5:30 pm — Dinner time, where we make sure to load up on Carbs
and water. After dinner it’s a quick shower and a little bit of down-
time, mostly for spreading the word to all the friends.

herds, all with their pearls and heels on and for
the most part stay together, that is except for the one girl wearing a
shirt that covers slightly more than an eye patch would. She is
surrounded by 12 guys at the beer pong table who could not tell you
what color her eyes were.

10:00 pm. —— The freshman guy in the comer is desperately
trying to impress everybody around him by proving that one time in
high school he drank 8 shots in a half hour and didn’t even feel it.

10:20 pm. — The freshman guy has passed out after ﬁnish-
ing only 3 shots. Guess he had more tolerance in high school.
Or he was lying. . . .. no that can’t be, freshmen don’t exaggerate
at all.

11:00 pm. — Word gets around that someone went to the
infirmary. It took two hours, must be a slow night.

11:30 pm — The three kegs are already kicked. No one can
understand how we went through that much beer in 2 and half

Tradition transcends generations

BY JEB BROOKS
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

This place has many time
honored traditions. We should
not seek change on a whim. In-
stead, we must continue to cel-
ebrate the rich history our uni-
versity bestows upon its cho-
sen few. There are some tradi-
tions that have long lost mean-
ing, others that are hilarious and
could never have had purpose
and others that must never be
forgotten. Above all, each must
be revered.

There are the little quirks
we tend to forget after our fresh-
man year, such as walking
through the side columns of the
Graham Lee breezeway. Many
a superstitious student has

grade after carefully choosing
that well worn path. Make an
effort to pass through the
proven test of time.

My favorite tradition is that
of gentlemanly conduct. We, at
Washington and Lee, behave in
a respectful manner to everyone

V H JEB BRO0 / The Ring-tum P/21'
DoN’T WALK STRAIGHT. One of the first traditions freshmen are taught is not to walk through the center of the
entrance to Graham—Lees. If you were to walk through the center of the columns, it is said that you will fail the
first test, or class, or paper at Washington and Lee.

we meet. We help little old la-
dies cross streets, we say “yes
ma’am” and “no sir” not be-
cause someone makes us, but
because it is the right thing to
do. At Washington and Lee, we
have our one rule and it is a good

‘ one. Thanks President Lee, you

did us right when you gave us
that simple instruction.

All that good behavior
doesn’t mean we are fun vacu-
ums. We have our share of
risqué traditions. Streaking the
colonnade is an experience
many can claim. Perhaps one
of the most treacherous of our
traditions, it is also the most in-

vigorating (from what I hear).
Should you decide to make this
run of shame, recall that certain
professors choose to keep non-
traditional office hours.

For you lovers of the out-
doors, don’t forget to climb
House Mountain. This ﬁnal (but
unrequired) phys. ed. activity
will surely excite you. How
tragic would it be to graduate
from Washington and Lee with-
out taking full advantage of the
unbelievably beautiful sur-
rounding country? The Com-
monwealth of Virginia has so
much to offer, take a look around.

Some say that one of our

greatest traditions is slipping
slowly away from us. I know
this is not an earth shattering
realization; someone writes
about it every year. But it really
is terrible when we choose not
to SPEAK!

And so, let me step onto
my soapbox: Do not dare look
away from me when I say,
“hello.” Respond. Frankly, my
friends, I don’t care if both par-
ties are on cell phones, listen-
ing to iPods or are too timid to
look a shadow in the eye. At
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, we are a community. Act
like it. Is it really all that difﬁ—

cult to say, “hello,” “’sup” or
“how’s it hangin”’ ?

And then there’s the
granddaddy of them all: Honor.
This tradition is by far our most
venerated. A Washington and
Lee graduate of 50 or 75 years
ago knows that he shares the
deepest possible sense of
honor with any member of the
class of 2008. This onnection
is what makes our institution
one of the greatest.

Washington and Lee’s time
honored traditions are what
make this place what it is. Re-
spect them and foster them.

hours, until we look at all the wounded soldiers left throughout the
house and the kid that just walked outside with two full beers from
beer pong, but comes back in with two empty cups. Must be a hardcore
drinker. He should become friends with the kid that passed out at
10:20.

11:45 pm —— The dance ﬂoor is the place to be. The trashy
girl is surrounded by the same 12 guys dancing and there are 2
couples pretty much making babies to the Ruff Ryders Anthem
by DMX.

Midnight — Bed time for the freshmen. They stumble out the
door in groups down the middle of the street. Now it’s time for
the party to get fun.

1:30 am — The frosh passed out in the corner wakes up and
asks what happened... we tell him that he not only did the 8
shots in half an hour, but also hit the beer bong twice, and it was
glorious. He regains his pride and pukes in his comer before
heading back to his top bunk in the dorms.

3:00 am — Someone gets hungry and there is a mass exodus to
Wafﬂe House, where the waitress and truckers stare at all of us
rich snobs. They’ll get the last laugh when the cooks spit in our
hash browns. We see it happen, but what the hell, we’re at WaHo,
it’s part of the experience.

4200 am — We all find out a nice place to pass out for the next
twelve hours when we’ll get up and do it all over again.

All the while in Gaines, the independents have gotten to-
gether to write a letter to the phi to respond to this article.

Second City entertains
W&L audience, kicks off
General Comedy Series

BY CALEY ANDERSON
OPINIONS EDITOR

Second City, the Chicago-based improve and sketch
comedy troupe, made its usual stop in Lexington this past
Wednesday, putting on a two and a half hour performance
before a packed house in the Lenfest Center. Though Sec-
ond City performed as a part of its regular tour, the event
was locally put on by the new Generals Activity Board,
the reincarnated S.A.B. of years past.

Second City’s routine includes sketch comedy and
completely inprovised scenes. Audience suggestions and
participation are encouraged. Wednesday—night audience
participation resulted in a sketch routine about the ‘‘walk
of shame” and a suggestion to act out “horniness”.

M Director of Student Activities Todd Tate, Assistant
Director Kristen Powell and General s Activity Board Presi-
dent Lauren Peters introduced Second City.

Second City’s performance kicks off the General Com-
edy Series to be held on Wednesdays at 8 p.m. during the fall
term. The series, held at the Marketplace in the John W. Elrod
University Commons, begins Sept. 22.

Second City is always a much-anticipated event at the
start of the year, and a natural fit with the many events put
on during freshman orientation and the first few weeks of
the school year. The troupe will likely make another stop
at Washington & Lee in September of 2005.

This year, the comedy troupe was celebrating its 45"‘
anniversary, and so their performance was composed of
old favorite sketches from their near half-century history,
as well as some favorite improvisational games. And, as is
tradition for Second City, intermission was announced by
the proclamation “It’s now intermission, so
go. . . . .intermish.”

Audience participation was very enthusiastic, and the
audience as a whole did seem very entertained by the six-
actor cast, certainly no rare sight for Second City’s mem-
bers.

Alumni of The Second City include Alan Arkin, Joan
Rivers, Robert Klein, Fred Willard, John Belushi, Dan
Aykroyd, Gilda Radner, Martin Short, John Candy, Betty
Thomas, Bill Murray, George Wendt, Chris Farley, Mike Kyers
and Ryan Stiles. V

U!

 

Honor Violation.

TS

Q Wearing a fake, 3 button Lacoste should be an

Q Congratulations to the football team on
beating Sewanee.

Q What’s with the list of churchgoers in

Campus Notices? Do we have to know someone
to get past the bouncer?

Q Phi Kap won Saturday night.

Q Freshmen girls: being hot doesn’t
automaically make you cool.

Q Hell Yeah! Inﬂatable alcohol sounds like a

good idea— no hangover? I’m all for it!

Q Professors Cumming and de Maria, The

- I : cutest couple on campus

Q Can’t touch this.

Q If you haven’t seen the hall decorations on
the second ﬂoor of Graham-Lees, dumpster side,

shy.

Q What sort of lifestyle would a human need to

lead in order to keep the length of one’s toenails
in check without clipping them? and if any of
' you geniuses can think of an answer, I’d love to

hear it

Q To the guy wearing the University of
Michigan hat...do you realize your forehead

reads, “UM”?

Q Yay! McDonald’s is open 24/7!

take a look. The signs are not for the sexually

Q Does anyone in the country actually like
John Kerry? Every democrat calls him “the
lesser of two evils” Way to nominate a

presidential candidate.

that 80s band

Q -Meet the Greeks needs to ﬁnd a new
location. I couldn’t hear anything because of

Q FYI, AK 47 is also a type of marijuana

Q Yesterday was International Talk Like a Pirate Q CONTACT rocks my world

Day— Yo ho ho!

Q Women's day? I propose a men’s day. How

about Wednesday?

Q Way to go phi on bringing back Talkbacks.

It’s the coolest feature ever!

Q Whoever said that Ashlee Simpson is a

Q Go out and burn down your enemies’ houses;
according to Eddie V, “Toleration is a lie.”

Q Every guy should have an engagement ring
fund.

Q Did you go to the International Film Festival
this weekend? You should have. It was excellent

better singer than her sister is an idiot.

Q Zollman’s lost hardcore Saturday night :*(

Q Online poker is the stupidest thing ever.

Only the biggest dorks play it.

Q High—school students beware: Today is Upton
Sinclair day.

Q To whoever has wet towels in Woods Creek,

why don’t you try hanging them up?

Q Happy Birthday to Sophia Loren, who turns
70 today. Eat a plate of spaghetti in her honor.

Q What do I have to do to get a day named after
me. Write a book about how to mass produce
sausage in great detail.

Q I wish I were a Cameroonian princess too.

Q The Cosby Show is 20 years old today. The

Huxtables are a timeless TV family.

Q Kah - The managing editor of the phi doesn’t
have to do the arranged marriage thing either.

Q True story: during a class discussion about

Glasgow, Professor Cimiming proclaims “gettin’

down in G-town”

Q From freshman girl: I love you Pete Miller.

Q I love Burger King

    

Q The Phi would like to ask the coop again to
please open at noon on Sundays. We get hungry
too. ‘ ~

Q Email your anonymous quick hits to i\..
phi@wlu.edu

 

Arch

 

<3 "573 . 75 5
R :52.
v. i 07 ,
V7 0 . Q I . ‘
W W L U
4 ASHINGTON AND EE NIVERSITY  
A ~ '
, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004 ~ I
  T/76 smdem‘ tom of Waibmgton and Lee Umvertzgy me 7897
4.
Pl't'l dfi 'lt°
BY KATHERINE SHELL ‘ em -1- -V 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER . j"
l
With this year’s election date near-
4 ing, as George W. Bush and Dick Cheney
prepare to face John Kerry and John
Edwards in the 2004 Presidential Elec-
tion, the College Republicans and the
4 Young Democrats make their plans for
Election Day on campus. Both commit-
tees havebeen inﬂuential in enabling
students to become registered voters,
through absentee ballots and online reg-
4 istration. As November 2 approaches,
plans have been made among both
groups to further support the GOP and
the Democratic Party.
A During Orientation Week, the
College Republicans held a drive to reg-
ister new voters and also to give stu-
dents the opportunity to become a Col-
lege Republican. This semester, the CRs
Vi are holding various parties to watch the
President speak. CR5 have also been
volunteering in the Bush—Cheney ‘O4
phone bank in Lexington as well as for
4 other Republican campaigns across the
‘ state of Virginia.
“Because this area [of] VA is
not an extrernly contested state, we are
offering our campaign assistance to
it other areas,” said Rachael Seidenschnur
’06, chair of the College Republicans. ,
“On Election Day, we will be poll watch— ‘ .
ing and holding signs at precinct poll- _ _ _ _ i _ _ KELLY_B°55 /  R_’NG‘T”MlP‘”
ing places.» other plans for this year ln_ POLITICAL SHOWDOWN. Members of the College Republicans and Young Democrats are actively working to help their respective parties win the upcoming presidential election.

A elude a Second Amendment App1_eCla_ Each group has several events planned leading up to the Nov. 2 poll.

tion Day as well as a winter term debate have several social events planned to Democrats. termine undecided voters. more about either committee should con-
with the Young Democrats. get students excited about the election On Election Day, the Young I On Election Night, the College tact Rachael Seidenschnur at
For the Young Democrats, and to encourage students to watch the Democrats will work to have as many Republicans and the Young Democrats seidenschnurr@wlu.edu or Joanna
4 plans on campus include the upcoming upcoming debates and keep informed Kerry supporters as possible come out will host a joint party as the final votes Persio at persioj@wlu.edu or visit the
Blue Dog Bash at the W&L Pavillion on about election issues,” says Joanna to vote. The Young, Democrats have are cast and counted. websites: http://republicans.wlu.edu

September 29. “Over the next month, we Persio, ’O5, president of the Young also been working phone banks to de— Anyone interested in learning and http://youngdemocrats.wlu.edu.

0 I I L ,
311113118 111'! . S ll 911 S I‘ n erna iona s u en s now
«C Sec t°tdtaeto It t ltdt
0 6‘ 0 " V ‘-  » A
, blame for recent parking difﬁculties eileelliilei diffielliliee til ling
BY ROB ARMSTRONG the main factor contributing to the parking problem is un-
W  355-hm   the   to stud in the l lnited States
4 University parking continues to hassle W&L commut— tickets. . .it was pretty clear to me what is causing the prob-
ers this year. On weekdays it is often difficult for students lem,” Tomlinson said. “In about anhour, an hour and ahalf,
with registered vehicles to ﬁnd available parking spots at the I wrote 22 tickets. And that was only on the 1“ and 2"“ BY ERIN JULIUS
University garage, forcing them to search for any available ﬂoors.” EDn.OR_lN_CH1EF
‘ parking on city streets. In other words, student abuse of parking privileges is V
A student with a University parking permit must cough the main source of the problem. Tomlinson noted that 21 All around the country, colleges and unlversltles have seen the.“ lmema_
E19350 2” th‘f'tpnV1leg:‘ 1::tt°::n reg‘; °“t_ﬂt‘° 2: nclljietls he Wrote were f°r un‘ tional student population encounter difficulties as a result of the tense world
ra ion oesn guaran ee a ere w “ regis ere ve c es. ollmalo
be 3 SP0‘ aV311ab1§- . _ The other days I was Th€.22"d C3Ihad1'lghtSt°_l9aTk°n1Y This year’s election has prompted much attention to recent world events,
‘ Halsrﬂlle Unlgerslb?’ rtegmered too dOW1'l [III thé garage] all thetﬁavlisongratenuw Parkmg lot °“ including the September 11 attacks, the Iraq War and the development of the
32:23.35 ‘§§§$° ° 3 “ ‘’ a°°°‘“‘“‘* writing tickets-~—it was  i‘7§§}..°.e°-.~.§’§““..‘l'ii§;. anunre is- "°Pa““‘e“‘°.”‘°‘“°‘*‘““.S°°“‘i‘Y- . .
Aclcyordiiig to campus security the Pretty Clear to me what is tered vehicle on caIII)1puSi§$100 “The The mam problem lS“1arger[scho‘o1S]Wlth graduate programs whlch rely
’ ' very heavily on foreign student enrollments,” said Dr. Vlfilliam Klingelhofer,
.. . “Th  . i ' 1 ’ b I  . f ' th ' V ' ‘ ' 46 7!
-  ,...;:°s:.. .. causmg the problem? :.:::::.:: .:;:;::::.%. .13  ""*‘~°"‘*;g‘°",**“" we sgmgr of   we  ,, ,
’ ’ re‘ tu t , , ' t th t’ , ”
We’ve got a total of 541 registered Stu- STEPHENITOMHNSON explained. Said. ore o igns en s owever are oo nga o er op ions nge 0 er
den‘ Vehicles designated for those ASJT. DIR. OF UMVERSHY SECURITY C°11°g° Students at “her cam‘ In larger school such as the University of Virginia, international students
spaces,” explained Stephen T. Tomlinson, puses have found alternative ways I0 have run into problems obtaining visas as a result of stricter Department of
4 Associate Director of University Security. l _ get to class, including using roller blades or bicycles. Homeland Security regulations Kllngolllofor deﬁnes international students as
f l The 541 reglstered vehicf:les :10 whicll(lTon1linsorIi is re— f lh Ba: Ill] the 22 yezliirs that Tomlinson llliash been working students who llvo -m forelgn Countries and roqulro visas. Admissions may de_
erring compose o a variety 0 stu ent par. ng perrni s. or e as ington an ee community, e as never seen ﬁne international students differently, such as those wllll dual Clllzsnshlps or
Country parking (more than 1/2 mile from campus) - students use bikes past their firstldays as freshman. l even as Amorloans llvlng abroad’ Klingelhofer sald_
ll 3648 . kl _ h I See the freshmen mfwe 1“ and Put “P th?“ blkes ‘ f‘We have not had a student denied a visa in quite a few years,” said Amy
oronty par ng 68 on t e racks next to Graham Lees. Then those bikes stay Rlohwmo the lmomallonal Student Advlsorl
Dorm Counselor/Resident Adviser — 29 there for four years. We’ve had seniors come and tell us Richwine oxplalnod Why very few of Washlngton and Iﬁe7s lmsmatlonal
31311135 2311 £6890 ihetlr b:ik:hwaStSltl°1e“; “:6 _aSk tgwmhwhe“ they, V;hSe°n It students encounter difficulties obtaining permission to study in the United
00 s ree — as an ey e us no since res man year. en we Slat _ «Al UV ll lh ll d- tud t l ll -th m_
4 I There are a handful of other types of vehicles, includ- asklif they’ve had it locked  and the typical response is donfssoomlng frgm lhffll/ll2lll‘:l€l:oaEI:lls.t1:é_vl,1:tl:l:lS‘:3esverl:: rflev13(si)l:1d:n?sr1f:o/ﬁn thnolclglelgdle
ing those belonging to Umversity and faculty, that have not no . ”Tomlinson chuckled, There s not much we can do East or any of the .axls of evil Countries, partly because We have no mosque or
been taken into account. Tomlinson believes, however, that there. local Islamic community to support
them,” she said. u - -

I Nevertheless, between fall of It Is. What We h_Opf_: is a temporary

" 2001 and the fall of2004, the number signiﬁcant dip In freshmen
of incoming international students in elll_»Ol1ment__.the general trend ls
the freshmen class dropped by half, l. d d d .th
said Klingelhofer. “It is what we hope Omar an upwar W1

A is a temporary signiﬁcant dip in fresh- International students.”
men enrollment. . .the general trend is DR WHLMM KLINGELHOFER
forward and upward with Intema- .
tional students,” he said. DIRECTOR OF

A During the same time period, INTERN/iiIoi\MLEDUcAiIoN.
Washington and Lee Law’s intema-
tional student population increased.
hi 2001, the Law School had 4 international students. By fall of 2004, that
number increased ﬁve times, to 20 international students.

ll At the same time, the number of international students already enrolled in
the University is extraordinary. “Last year a record number of international
students graduated, and they represented 23 countries,” Richwine said.

As far as long-term affects on America’s higher education system,
. Klingelhofer said the economic impact of a dropping international student en-
1 rolhnent could be signiﬁcant. “Graduate students [from abroad] bring unprec-
edented talent,” he said, calling the diminishing numbers a “reverse brain—drain."
C"RB‘N BLACKFORD / THE RINGTUM PH’ A loss of these great minds, combitied with the possible loss of a “staggering”
IT’s YOUR OWN DAMN FAULT. At least, that’s what Campus Security says is the cause of recent parking problems. According to amount of money generated by illlel-llaiiollal students’ could pemlallemiy dam-
A Stephen Tomlinson, Assistant Drector of campus security, student abuse of parking areas is the problem. age American higher education, Klingelhofer Said

 
   

  

,,»lAMtf“SG. LIEYEBURN-I.r8l‘odra‘-2
V-“'\tHl‘07\t 8‘ LEE .OnlraoI3a‘sm'
e 'r~w-r:*r:",+\t VA 24457)

SE? 2 8 200%-
PAGE 2

MONDAY, SEPIERMBER 27, 2004

VMI professor found dead
following heart tk

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRITER

A 60 year old VMI professor was found dead
Thursday evening, apparently the victim of a sudden
heart attack. A cadet discovered Col. Michael S. Harris,
who was rushed to Stonewall Jackson Hospital and

pronounced dead, according to VMI ofﬁcials.

“It’s deﬁnitely a shock, there’s no question
about that,” explained Lt. Col. Stewart Maclnnis, As-
sociate Director of Communications and Marketing. “It
would be one thing if it were expected, but no one surely

had seen this coming.”

“[Harris] was a very well respected member of
the faculty,” Maclnnis added. “He touched a lot of

lives.”

Harris was on the faculty at the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute for 32 years. A professor of French and
Spanish, Harris served as head of the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures since 1993.

‘ Harris’ cousin is making the ftmeral arrangements. Harris did not have family in the Lexing-
ton area and the funeral will be held close to his family’s hometown in Chicago. VMI ofﬁcials have
yet to make plans regarding ‘a local memorial service.

  

COL. MICHAEL S. HARRIs

Students urged to get involved in the
community during Nabors Service Day

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

At Washington and Lee, all students are
encouraged to get involved in the community. One
of the best ways to do this is at the upcoming
Nabors Service Day.

On October 9, students will join together
in a group effort to make a difference in Rockbridge
County.

There will be numerous different activitie,
including garbage pickup on House Mountain and

work at nearby schools. Whatever your interest,
there is no doubt you will be able to find commu-
nity service that you will enjoy.

Diane Kuhn ‘07, who serves as Issues
Awareness Chair of the organization, says that “the
best part about Nabors is the chance to truly make
a difference in the county. It gives us all a chance
to put a little back into this small community.”

In addition to many service projects,
Nabors will also be bringing in awareness speak-

ers. To get involved, contact Jill Waity ‘05,

N abors’ General Chair.

Homecoming events set

BY DIANA DOZIER
STAFF WRITER

Homecoming weekend here at Washington
and Lee rapidly approaches, promising a weekend
filled with tailgating, sporting events, concerts, and
much more. Kicking off this September 30th, plenty
of alumni will make their armual pilgrimage to the
campus to take part in the festivities.

On Friday there are numerous activities, from
the Hike Up House Mountain sponsored by the
Outing Club to checking out the open houses at
DuPont Hall, Reid Hall, and the Fitness Center.
Also, that evening even W&L students can find
their fair share of parties at the various fraternity
houses. ,

“I’m looking forward to the return of all
alumni, the celebration of football, and especially
the dedication of Huntley Hall Williams School,”
said President Burish, who is excited about the
upcoming weekend. The dedication will take place

at 11 a.m. Saturday morning. The Mink Rally be-
gins at 11:30 at the Doremus Lawn, featuring the
band Loose Change, lunch, and a chance to mingle
with the alumni.

At 1:30, the football team will take on
Randolph-Macon at Wilson Field. Half-time will
include the 2004 Athletic Hall of Fame Inductees
and the crowning of the 2004 Homecoming Queen;
afterwards fans are encouraged to stay and watch
the exciting second half of the football game.

Football isn’t the only sport competing this
weekend. If you time it right, you can swing by and
catch a little of each game, starting with men’s soc-
cer at 1 1:00 a.m., followed the football game at 1:30,
women’s soccer at 3:00, and women’s volleyball at
4:00. Then students above legal drinking age can
head over to the Virginia Vlfine Tasting at the Lib-
erty Ruins at 5:00p.m. and afterwards enjoy some
good old fashioned barbeque from 6:00 to 8:00.

For the complete schedule, go to http://
alumniapps.wlu.edu/HC2004/schedule.htm.

Beta plans charity dodgeball tournament

BY JORDAN ANDERSON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The game of Dodgeball is
simple — two teams of ﬁve, three
balls, one line dividing the two
teams. The object is, of course,
to dodge the balls and to try and
nail your opponents. If you catch
a ball thrown at you, then one of
your teammates who had failed
to dodge a ball gets to come back
in. First team to eliminate all of
their opponents wins.

We all know the rules.
It is one of the simplest games to
be played on the elementary
school playground. However,
with the recent summer block-
buster and the reemergence of
“pro” dodgeball leagues, this fun
little game has become a full

TALKBACK: Have you ever had problerns arking on campus?

 

“Yes, the parking garage
has been really full.”
—Elizabeth Amoni ‘O5

 

 

ls

“People like to park right by “The parking garage is
you, so opening your door
can be a pain.”
—Max Vilenchik ‘O8

terrible. Every time you go
in or out, you almost get in
a wreck.”

—Kelly Price ‘O7

 

“I’ve never had any
trouble.”
—Mallory Lobisser ‘O7

blown sport.

This past summer, jun-
iors Tim Blair and Dan
McMenamin competed in a small
dodgeball tournament organized
by a bar in New York City. Upon
their return, they convinced the
W&L chapter (presently sus-
pended) of Beta Theta Pi to or-
ganize a dodgeball tournament
for the students of Washington
& Lee. Similar to the various fun
runs for charity, the dodgeball
tournament will have several
teams, each with an entry fee that
will go to beneﬁting a charity.

Though much of the
speciﬁcs are still in development,
the tentative date thus far is Sat-
urday, October 9'*‘ behind the
Pole Houses. Currently the

 

“The parking garage is so
small...During the day, if
you leave it’s almost
impossible to get a spot.”
—]enny Scott ‘O6

money will go to beneﬁt hurricane
victims or the Red Cross. The fee
will be $25 for teams, and so far
support looks very good.

The games will follow
traditional rules, and if support
is strong enough, there will be
two separate brackets for gender.
Teams should be completely
open ended, with no restrictions.
The winners will be rewarded in
some way, but the reward has not
been decided on yet. Blair and
McMenamin are completely
Open to ideas, and e—mails are
very welcome.

Currently the organiz-
ers are looking for referees and
further support. All inquiries can
be e-mailed to Blair or
McMenamin.

 

 

“I have a dorm counselor
pass, so I can park ‘
anywhere. I’m also tight
with security, so I can park
illegally for about a day.”
—Chris Walker ‘O5

Mall

40,000 Square Feet
160+ Dealers

or apartment.

Sunday 11 a.m.- 6 p.m.
(540) 464-5555

The Antique

760 N. Lee Highway
College Square Shopping Center

Area's Largest Antique Mall, specializing in used
furniture and “cool" accessories for the “cool" house

There's something for everyone!
Monday—Saturday 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Enjoy writing?
(I3

Join us at
THE RING-TUM PHI

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps; Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststrave|.cOm.

Energetic, Enthusiastic, & Motivated?

If you ﬁt these three categories call

ROCKBRIDGE

MEMORIAL GARDENS
today at 

We have a full—time position forour sales
staff and one for a family service counselor.

Career includes paid training and all
company beneﬁts apply.

Don’t wait, call today!

Florist

Teleﬂora Wire Service
Corsages & Bouts
Gift & Fruit Baskets

Flowers & Things

For the “Unique” at aﬁordable prices!

Balloons & Fresh Arrangements
Daily Lexington Delivery (if Ordered by 12)‘
All major credit cards accepted

Call 540-261-6300 or 1-800-872-6156
2463 Beech Ave., Buena Vista, Va. 24416 '

Check

Sires: Minis!
Choca/afe Bandaidsl
Kick/iss Popcorn!

lVIonday—Satui'day 10 a.m.i — 5:30 p.rn.
Sunday Noon _— 4:00 9311.
. 13 South 1\/Iain Street
‘ 464-4433

wvvw;funfoodsforyou.corn _

Like No Other?
Shop

Vou've Seen!
6/'f'f:s' & Snac/cs‘

 _ _Fg‘q/if _A// Occas/'an.§f__g
01' Our Tea Room
(Serving Premium Teas, Light Fare 6: Sweets)

_Body Frvsfirgl Student Care Packqges

.$arnefhity for Everyone

Abveliy Candies
éifr Baske 1':

Fun Foods

. 8‘
Accessories

W&L’s
most
trusted
source
for  
news

*-

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

Si§i}i\Fii§l:EliDITORIAL

Is a two-week break enough?

We realize it’s September. But
we’re thinking ahead. To Santa Claus,
to snow, to presents, to Christmas Break.
Sadly, our good cheer regarding that
blessed holiday is dampened by the bit-
ter taste left in our mouths by a two-week
break. What is this? Washington and
Lee High School?

Washington and Lee is a school of
the highest caliber. Students here work
desperately hard during the school year.
After Fall term, we are tired and brain-
drained. Christmas itself is no time for
relaxation. There is traveling involved,
family connnitments, and residual stress
from exams.

In addition, it costs money to get
plane tickets home, or to drive home.
Because there is no food available on-
campus during breaks, we are forced to
head home, or make other arrangements
for every break. Over Christmas break,
students aren’t even allowed to stay in
on—carnpus housing, which forces us to
spend that money to go home.

Once we are back in the safe haven
we call home, it’s nice to spend some
time with family and friends from past
lives. We think there is a reason that
colleges generally have month—long win-
ter breaks. College is stressful for busy
students. College is also stressful for
Professors. ‘What Professor couldn’t
use an extra week or two in January to
make ﬁnal preparations for their winter
classes?

An extra week of break would reju-
venate our minds and bodies. To replace
that week of instruction time, we could
start earlier in September rather than
waiting until it’s practically Fall to start
classes.

If made, these changes would bring
in a better start to Winter term. People
will be more relaxed and ready to face
Lexington in its cold, dark, dreary, and
wintery state:

 

  

te of the Week

“I remember the memos from 20th Century
Fox- ‘Can you putapairoflederhosen on the
WOOkiee?’All they couldthinkof was, ‘This
characterhas no pants On!” '

-Mark Hamill, aka Luke Skywalker

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor

Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir

E_rin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Laudemian

Sarah Murray

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Corbin Blackford
Marshall Rule

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

 

CAIEYANDARSON
OPINIONS EDIIOR
EMAn;ANDrrsONO@wrDrDU

PAGE 3

Black Greeks badly needed at University

In the past few weeks there have been articles printed in both major univer-
sity newspapers about historically Black Greek letter organizations coming to
campus. However, what these articles have failed to include is actual informa-
tion about the formation of the organizations and how Washington and Lee
University can, and is, going to beneﬁt by their presence.

To understand why historically Black Greek letter organizations are still‘

needed today, one has to look at their origins. The ﬁrst Greek letter organization
was Phi Beta Kappa which was founded on December 5, 1776 by 5 students at
the College ofW1lliarn and Mary in Wrlliarnsburg, Virginia. According to the Phi
Beta Kappa website, the ﬁrst women were admitted in 1875, the ﬁrst Black
member was initiated in 1377, and the ﬁrst Black woman became a member in
1905. By 1883 there were 25 chapters and around 14,000
members nationwide. With" the proliferation? of this, pre-
dominately white male, Greek organization, the necessity of

a similar organization for Blacks became more evident. This
ultimately led to the creation of the ﬁrst historically Black
Greek letter organization, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incor- '
porated. Alpha Phi Alpha was founded on December 4, 1906 at Cornell Univer-
sity in Ithaca, New York. According to the Alpha Phi Alpha website the organi-
zation was initially a study/support group for minority students, who were
facing racial prejudice both educationally and socially at Cornell. And although
the organization continues to stress academic excellence, they also stress the
need to “correct the educational, economic, political, and social injustices faced
by Blacks.” In total there are nine historically Black Greek letter organizations,
which are known as the Divine Nine: Alpha Phi Alpha, KappaAlpha Psi, Omega
Psi Phi, Phi Beta Sigma, Iota Phi Theta are the fraternities and Alpha Kappa
Alpha, Delta Sigma Theta, Zeta Phi Beta and Sigma Gamma Rho are the sorori-
ties.

Each of these nine organizations was formed during a period when Blacks
were systematically being denied, basic human rights. The racial and social
isolation of Blacks on predominantly white campuses created the necessity for
Blacks to unite themselves with others who shared similar ideas and goals. For
this reason Washington and Lee University will beneﬁt from the presence of
historically Black Greek letter organizations. It will provide those who choose
to join a sense of brotherhood/sisterhood, foster their interest in aiding the
Black community as well as being a part of a long legacy of members: WE.B.

INTRODUCING
MARCAS BANKS ‘O7

PHOTO COURTESY OF CORNELLEDU

JEWELS. The seven founding jewels of Alpha Phi Alpha represent the virtues Black Greeks would bring to W&L. Wfho can doubt that diversity is badly needed?

Dubois (Alpha Phi Alpha), Rick James (Phi Beta Sigma), Eleanor Roosevelt (Al-
pha Kappa Alpha), Michael Jordan (Omega Psi Phi), Martin Luther King Jr (Al-
pha Phi Alpha) and Aretha Franklin (Delta Sigma Theta) just to name a few. The
presence of historically Black Greek organizations will give prospective stu-
dents, who may see joining them as important, a greater incentive to apply/enroll
to this ﬁne university, thus increasing the diversity of the campus. But the
beneﬁt will not only be felt among the Black students but students of all races
and ethnicities. Although they are historically Black they are NOT exclusively
Black .

Many of those who oppose historically Black Greek organizations often say
that bringing the organizations on campus is another example of the Black stu-
dents self-segregating ourselves and trying to be divisive. This
could not be further from the truth. Many Black families have
traditions in joining certain historically Black Greek organizations;
without their presence on campus many Black students would be
forced to miss out on a family tradition that in some cases can
span many generations. Not only that but there are both Black
and non—Black students who feel uncomfortable with the historically White Greek
organizations on campus and would feel even more uncomfortable “rushing”
one of these organizations. Those who oppose them also do not take into
consideration that in general, Greek letter organizations are one of the largest
institutions that advocate and emphasize the perfonnance of community service
in college aged people. This can only help to enrich the college experience of
those who wish join a historically Black Greek letter organization. The organiza-
tions would not be divisive because the students who would be interested in
joining them would most likely have no interest in joining the historically White
ones. It would merely provide students who are currently independent with

more options.

Being Black inAmerican society has its implicit diﬂiculties but being Black
at Washington and Lee University can at time be even harder, especially when
out of slightly over 1730 undergraduates only 78 of them are African American/
Black. This environment can often cause Black students, including myself, to
feel isolated both institutionally and socially. Although the presence of histori-
cally Black Greek organizations will not stop students from feeling this way, it will
provide both Black and non—Black students an outlet_in which they can develop
and foster relationships with their fellow students and lifetime build bonds

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee~Univer-
sity, bexington, Virginia The Ring-nan Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-mm Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Military needs to avoid interfering with Iraq elections

Colin Powell announced that the U.S. mili-
tary will be moving into Iraq “no-go” danger
zones controlled by insurgents,
attempting to secure the entire
country for the elections planned
for the end of January. To me,
tbere is a paradoxical irony about
this- the insurgents are, for the large part, Iraqi
citizens, just the people you’d want to vote.
Are we going to clear out rebel camps and then
hand out ballots to the defeated insurgents?
Seems odd to me.

I think that the source of a lot of the inse-
curity in Iraq is the mere presence of U.S.
forces. If our military were to leave tomorrow,

'a lot of the insurgents would quit. They fight
because they perceive us as a foreign invader,
rather than the liberators we prefer to be por-
trayed as. But clearly, removal of our troops

MODE1rATE’s MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

from Iraq isn’t going to happen anytime soon.
So, what’s the solution?

Simply put, the in-
terim government must be
allowed to run this election
on its own terms. Iraqis
must man the ballot boxes,
count the votes, _and even secure their own
polling sites, free of the combined Armed
Forces and mercenary troops that the U.S. cur-
rently employs in Iraq. Trying to “keep an eye”
on the Iraq elections would simply give the
appearence of illegitimacy, an appearence
which is dangerous not only for our troops,
but for our credibility as a capable liberty-cre-
ating, nation—building country. '

Donald Rumsfeld says— “Let’s say you
tried to have an election and you could have
it in three—quarters or four-fifths of the coun-

try, but some places you couldn’t because the
violence was too great. Well, that’s — so be
it. Nothing’s perfect in life. So you have an
election that’s not quite perfect.” This seems
to make sense to me, and seems a better alter-
native to the “fair voting by force” strategy
proposed by Powell. You certainly can’t force
elections, and you certainly can’t persuade
armed rebels to cooperate with what they view
as a (temporarily, at least) illegitimate govern-
ment. A

We already have a very tenuous grasp on
the legality of our most recent attack on this
Middle—Eastem country. We came to free the
people from a tyrannical government and to win
over support for the democratic, capitalist way of
life. While we have certainly accomplished the
first, our success with the second remains to be
seen, and we shouldn’t endanger it any further.

Yes
44%

Phi Quick Poll

“Should the EC be unanimous in a finding of guilt in HV closed hearings?”

48 students polled, 23 male, 25 female. Poll has 95% conﬁdence in a +/- 5% margin of error

No
56%

 

    

PAGE 4 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

 ..

POMPAND CIRCUMS'TANf3E- The subjects that are honored by theEmmys,

things that count in life

photo courtesy of cuecards.com
Grarnm s, and Oscars aren’t the onl
Y Y

Being a big fan of tv and movies, I dutifully
sat and watched the Emmy awards last Sunday
night. Elaine Stritch’s warning that she would not
leave the stage until someone carried her off and
Sarah Jessica Parker’s thanking of the “passerbys
who always wanted the best for her” made me real-
ize that such an award truly is a result of the culmi-
nation of a lifetime of hard work. During high

some sort of prize, most of which I only appreci-
ated because they allowed meito add one more
thing to my resume. I’m sure many of the students
here can relate to my lack of en-

thusiasm at being praised and I

began to wonder... Why are
some awards more personally
valued than others?

In April of 2003, one of my favorite aunts came
to my house for Easter. Both being horse-lovers,
we decided to go on an early morning ride through
the national forest nearby. Riding side by side
down the road to the trails, I asked my aunt what
she had planned for the upcoming summer. After
discovering that the cancer she had six years prior
had returned, she had decided to quit working as
the Director of the American Bar Association’s
Commission of Domestic Violence in Washington,
DC. The job as Director had been the culmination
of a career which began by going to law school
after her divorce and while raising her two young
daughters, an incredible accomplishment. She told
me how she wanted to relax, take painting and pho-
tography classes, and begin riding again after a
long hiatus. As her disease progressed, she
plarmed to move back to a more rural setting and it
seemed to me like she longed to return to her roots.
Maybe she felt that she didnit need the stress of
such a high—profile job when she was so very ca-
pable of helping people at an individual level in-
stead of helping so many people but being dis-
tanced from them. I started to wonder if her origi-
nal dream had been swept away by sacriﬁcing her-
self for so many other people.

While my aunt’s hard work was rewarded by
being offered dream jobs that allowed her to touch
people’s lives by creating a lasting standard for
the practice of law in cases of domestic violence,
the winning actor is rewarded by a statue. Both

school and even before, I was often awarded with-

IN THE IRONS
CARISSA SHIPLEY c07 after their first taste of fame, they

. Entertainmet industry not deserving of awards hoopla

types of awards bring about overwhelming joy, ”

but the two are so different that they are almost
impossible to compare. So what gives both so much
meaning to each recipient and would an actor be
as thrilled at getting an ABA job as my aunt was?
After watching several E! True Hollywood Story
episodes, I noticed an emerging theme. Almost
without exception, every star had taken risks and
given up another, more secure job in order to be-
come an actor. The actors sacriﬁced, worked hard,
were rejected, and failed in the acting industry
numerous times before finally
landing the dream role which made
them famous. Sometimes, even

were forced to overcome ob-

stacles and ﬁght their way back
to the top. Even those actors who are very suc-
cessful may not receive an Oscar or Emmy.

In my eyes, my aunt’s job was far less super-
ﬁcial than that of an actor’s, but it seems clear that
both my aunt and the actor were fulfilled by what
they achieved. My aunt made huge sacriﬁces to
get her job. Not only did she put herself through
law school, after graduation, she moved to vari-
ous states, often where she did not really know

« anyone, to take a job which would allow her to

help more people. She didn’t have time to ride or
take art classes, like she wanted because she put
her all into a demanding job. Even after all the sac-
riﬁce and hard work, she lived her dream. While
she may have had regrets that she couldn’t do
some of the things she really wanted, ultimately I

think there is a lot to be said for living your own

dream and it is only by doing this that you receive
that meaningful award. Thus the less—than—excit—
ing awards only recognize an accomplishment born
from necessity, instead of desire. And so it seems
like those who pursue their own personal dream,
no matter the sacriﬁce, seem niost fulﬁlled by an
award that recognizes their personal drive. For
actors, it is materialized in gold, but for others, just
knowing that they have achieved great things is
enough and from their achievements, we should
be inspired to follow our own hearts.

This article is lovingly dedicated in memoriam
to my wonderful aunt, Bette Garlow. August 8, 1954
— Sept 30, 2003.

Jps and Downs

Opinions.Editor CaieyAnderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell, and what stayed about the same this week at W&L,and the wand.
Unanimous HV Verdicts‘ L N o matter what your opinion, and opinions do vary pretty violently, you’ve Hurricanes— L Dear Atlantic Ocean air systems- Please stop.

got to think that this idea isn’t going to appeal to the EC.

\ EC Budget Allocations- More $$$ in the coffers means happy, happy student orgs. Allocate wisely,
Fake 1]) = HV— 1, I don’t see why it’s NOT an HV, but I know when popular opinion’s against me. brave members of the Committee. .

Beta «I»-9 Gone the way of SPE. Message to nationals— crushing out chapters is no way to make yourself Trident Vs. EC skirmish— T The winner is us, the viewing public. ,

look good. Still, dodgeball tournament = awesome.

it happen?
Roanoke—  But only because there’s no Lexington mall.

GDI- T 2 less frats + S.A.O. = lots of indie fun next year.

Election— L Apparently the best way to get out the vote is acidic, partisan hatred.

Lex Fast Food—+"-9 Digestion-disrupting Taco Bell to Salty Fry Burger King.

BoSox— 1' I’m from San Diego, and even I’m excited.

Bookstore- 4”’ Rockin’, but do we really need two shelf units full of chick lit?

Auditorium next to Commons 1, Does that thing ever get used for anything but studying anymore?
Homecoining- <-0 Beating the Yellow Jackets would be pretty sweet, but can the 01’ blue and white make It seems like the only time I ever went to anything there was early last year.

Cadavers— More 1 ues honorin them around cam us. Here’s to the secret or anization that uts
P 39 3 P 2 P

their money where their mouth is.

Teach for America- T Awesome, challenging program. Anyone who goes through it should be hireable

by any employer.

Young Dems- 1' Even College Republicans would have to admit that Blue Dog Bash is looking like a

potential major success.
Professor Velasquez— d-—>By his own admission.

VRB- T Finally, we can get our debate on.

Got something to say?

Write Opinions for the Ring—tum Phi

If you like to hold forth on the weighty issues of the day, the Ring—tum Phi is the
paper for you. E—mail the Opinions Editor at Andersonc@wlu.edu

It°s time to exercise something
other than your mind.

   

I , Ilrnllyﬁpheoowode cu-cduxﬁlsuiial suldem:
L‘.-'Lutl*:Iil i‘.w1'~‘.*rr1l:i~.'7-ili.i'p  biidgumd abiqr sudmt schadlle. OJw5is3=0-
 " E mimuteﬁmesstnnmonsenst weight|¢:5,ar.dal
. ‘. ‘ diesuppon: you

E
.  _ ;_ be ah‘ ..
[931 ’_Ne1-rio:-steI.' , ;m;i"“"‘* 

I r n—.s :i.ur:r-». ~I:llI’.I"'f‘

 

'mm.o.1M5im: muiomlcom

(540) 464-5545
?8D N La: Hwy
Imthigban "$324450
00¢ £4999 b<.Ib7wIr Iawnﬂuidc
m._a...s.,u|,..u-b.¢|,Lva.iw.i-s.vJ‘i£q.-,.o.q..4.,|..4.. Nun .u ..,.a.-,....a...a

STRINGED INSTRUMENT

Prepare yoorsetf for

well... an  

  

Expert Repair & Set-Up

Guitars &Basses

   

Acoustic &Electric

ReferencesAvailable
 Local Service/Will Pick Up & Deliver!
LEO LORENZONI

Luthier

540-258-1401

Fiwd out new you can IJSQ 3191;? down and
v=a£L.me¢r eieparteruze tr: assist  in
 enuntoiaaaiumd  Danftmm
ihisoppominﬂy to tnlktzea ﬁemeﬂmpssrecmitar
mélemihowgrtxiemmahaadiﬁfemrma meme‘
em.   em.

  
  
  
  
  

Wednesday, September 29

Puma buy:  Irifoermaitixm session
11:06 sI.m.«1:00'p.m. 'r':‘J0 - 9:013 
Eat! U.  Gwschool
tinting Room Room 221

Pusan Berna

 mam» 
cantant Jason Rana
{GOO} 424-3680 #1048

 

 

A   Gritter o

i

  

MARsHAu.RUiE
SPOKIS EDIPOR

EwmR mU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

’li‘l.ii-.5 RiZ\K}~’il‘E.7M. Pi-ii

PORT

pposes free agency

He believes free agency, lack of team spirit, quests for money ruining baseball

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

I can fully understand when
people say that baseball is bor-
ing, I really can. It doesn’t anger
me when people tell me that. You
have to have played baseball to
appreciate a nine inning game, and
honestly I can’t make it through
a whole game unless it’s the play-
offs or my Florida Marlins. But
despite the fact that more people
enjoy football or basketball, base-
ball, always has the claim of be-
ing “America’s Pastime.” It’s the
sport with all the history. Because
of this, I absolutely hate when I
feel like that nostalgic feeling is
being attacked .... ..now is cer-
tainly one of those times, and the
attack is coming from many
sides.

The free agency problem
has ﬁnally reached a point that I
just cannot stand. I keep track of
minor league prospects for al-
most every team and consider
myself a guru of sorts concem—
ing baseball, yet even I can’t keep
up with all the off—season moves.
I’m fine with free agency but only
as long as it operates in a system
based on team loyalty. Free
agency is a way for a player to
leave a team if the club and the

’ player don’t get along or if the
player feels he is grossly under-
paid. These days staying with
one team for a career is utterly
unheard of. Going along with this
is my least favorite word in the
business of baseball: “arbitra-
tion.” What kind of system are
we in where a third party is deter-

mining when a player deserves
more money? That’s up to man-
agement of the club, if the player
doesn’t like it because he feels
he is being grossly underpaid
(there’s that phrase again) he can
use free agency to get more once
his contract ends. Furthermore,
this process is an argument of
value, which forces the team to
devalue their player to the best
of their ability ‘in front of the
playerll WTF?l Pitting team
against player creates no feeling
of team loyalty and completely

time, as he was making 8.5 mil/yr,
he said “I looked around, and I
was only the third highest paid
player on my own
team.” ......... ..So? Please people,
if you love baseball and aren’t a
White Sox fan (actually you
don’t even have to love baseball,
just hate d**kheads), don’t like
Frank Thomas. So that’s one
realm in which I feel my beloved
sport is being killed, but there is
another that is being directly at-
tacked this season that angers me
more.

Pitting team against player creates no feeling of team
loyalty and completely undermines the fun of seeing an
owner try and build his team

undermines the fun of seeing an
owner try and build his team as
Mark Cuban continues to do with
the Dallas Mavericks. While I’m
in the same general area let me
talk about holdouts as well. I’m a
firm believer that when you sign
your contract you had better be
willing to live with that
contract.....you signed the pa-
pers! If you have a completely
unexpected breakout year and
become a star then the team’s
sense of loyalty should encour-
age them to give you the money
you deserve, if not....tough.
Frank Thomas especially is the
greatest offender of this principle.
Two times now (at least) he has
signed a ridiculously lucrative
contract only to complain about
it within a couple years and de-
mand that it be restructured. One

Hank Aaron’s home run
record and George Sisler’s single-
season hit’s record are both be-
ing neared and I’m not happy
about it at all. Baseball’s records
are very. meaningful, and when
they are broken it should be done
in a way that fits with the honor-
able tradition of baseball. As
Randy Johnson passes
baseball’s greatest strikeout
pitchers I feel no ill will towards
him, because he’s been the same
pitcher his whole career and has
gone out and given his best with-
out any cheating or questionable
practices. This sentence, obvi-
ously, leads me to the Home Run
record Bonds is approaching. I
already wrote an article about this
very thing last year, but for the
beneﬁt of the freshmen, Bonds
definitely used steroids and

therefore his records lose mean-
ing. Even if you say he didn’t use
them because it can’t proven, his
records will always be given a
shady squint’ since his body’s
transformation just doesn’t seem
natural.....because it isn’t.
Anyways, you may be wonder-
ing what I could possibly have
against Ichiro approaching
Sisler’s 257 hits‘ in one season.
Well, besides the fact that Ichiro
was very pompous when he
came over before proving him-
self, I have another reason. I
don’t like players going from the
Japanese Leagues and coming
over to the Major Leagues and
having success.

Don’t get me wrong, I have
nothing against Japanese play-
ers making it in the majors, I just
don’t like them playing in those
leagues first. Why? Because it
takes away from the mystique.
Ichiro’s numbers in Japan can be
compared rather closely with his
numbers in the majors and that
encourages other JL players to
think they can do the same.
Tsuyoshi Shinjo had no right at
all to think he could make the
jump to the Bigs. Had Ichiro been
signed when young and worked
his way up in America or only
played for a national team like the
Cuban signees then I wouldn’t
have any problem. Some call this
feeling elitist, since I wish to pre-
serve the feeling of awe the rest
of the world has for MLB (as well
as the NBA, NFL, NHL. . ..wait,
who cares about the NHL? Strike
on! i). I prefer to call my feelings
“Patriotic.”

PAGE 5;

The W&L riding team
looks like they’re going to have
a great season.

According to junior Caitlin
Lane, the team has “great
people on each level” coupled
with a group of “strong fresh-
men” who will help boost the
season’s success.

Last year, the team won 3'“
in the region, which was an
upward trend that team mem-
bers feel will continue to rise.
In the 03-04 season, the team
also sent two riders to nation-

als; Lane won a 4”‘ place show-

Pnoro COURTESY KATIE GOODRICH

Bright outlook  
for equestrians

I Team’s great repute

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER -

tion is still to improve 1

ing in the open ﬂat, and then
senior Sarah Michaels earned
3"‘ in the novice fences. Both
girls were on the zone All—Star
team. ‘

The riding team also won
first and second at last year’s
Collegiate Cup.

Although this year’s sea-
son doesn’t officially begin
until Oct. 3 at the Radford In-
vitational, team members have
been busy practicing and per-
fecting their riding skills to
ensure a season of success.

With an ever-rising
record, W&L’s riding team is
sure to have a season to re-
member.

TH I  Pei 

  

   
    
    
 

King, W&L zraiioa two

  

 

record 206 yards  I

 
 

 

finished second of 28

 

Cruise!

Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave|.com
1-800-678-6386

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS
$1000—$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non—sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

V”_xg57&L 399333 , i A" ' A V iO})AC"~foie Kampden- afternoon in
(RELEASE: " sets to none before com- touchdowns .to;heIp   Sydney College on Satan flaizisonburg, Va. teams, while the women
r I ’ T» -    15~30;29-/ the Cenl1e,_C3o1flege___ _ .   afteriiojon in . I iﬁriishedﬁfthofzzteams.
. v  V *  . pi V  ’ i31,3o.17,3o.2g,1g-15_ bail team toiaj28~23.w_i2i 'Han3;§dei1~Sydxiey, Va. Cross Country Com- ’
Women’sSoccer})efeat$.,__ V ' . overwashirigtoa aniilgeej ‘ _  . s ' ppetes in NYU Invita~ Men’s’I2amisHostsFa}l
Chane“: 2~1«(912§):‘  3 " j , FootballI)rops28-23De~ on Saturday larfternoén . }?,iield,~§iocIcey..rDefeats tional(9/18) . ‘ Classic (9112)
Freshmauvdefende’rHaley f’ éisionta Centre College Darivil1e,Ky._°  :v ' I  5-3, The Washington and Washington and Lee
Bunting (Bel1aire,'i'exa_s/ A 1. (9/25)’ , ~  E .  « A for Fifstlwin (9124) Lee men’s and women’s junior lilavid Shay
,  513- 59593) $90193 3 $03.1 -,  ‘ 'f ‘ Senior quarterback Brian Men’s Soccer -Tics Seniojr;midfi§eider Kiri; cross ‘country teams »; (Martinez, Ga./Augusta
_  81'7013§5lt033ﬁ ﬁ.’.9“'N°> 2,3 ii ' WBehren'dt completed 28-  y,$2(W‘ '_' .. M ,f‘f  (newyiilii. NY! were in action on Satin» Prep) won the champi-
 .. .W39hi333‘°ﬂ 335 L?"v“¥f  of-’-mpassesfora sehoo1- 25) I 7   St. .Catberii:‘es) scored day as they competedin oxiship match of the first
womeifs soccerteamtoa ,  A mwrd 377 yards age: The Washington and Lee  twovgoais to 13339 propel "A theNew York University singles flightastheGerx~
 .32-3 victory over,Chov{an_, * . three touehdownszand meats soccertearn;>1ayeil",‘ ,tl3eaWashi_ngton and  ‘ Invitational at Van ‘erals hosted the W&L ~
VCo}1ege7on Sunday after?   I I senior wide receiver its third»overtimega:n:eof"~5 sﬁeidiiockeyteatntoas‘-3‘ Cortlandt Park in the Fall Classic on Saturday
. B003 in M‘1Yf1“°§5b°m« . David Crowley caught the seasoil and cause win‘owm"ODAC-foeEast~l Bronx. The W&L men and Sunday. '
. , V‘ NE; W I » eight passes fora school. away With‘a:.2:-2 tic  ~    V
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party $450 5f‘°UP FU"d"°'$¢" 5¢h¢dU'm9 30005 For Rent

ParentslAlumni Weekends — Beautifully restored
and modernized cabin on 45 acres in mountains
15 min. west of Lexington. Completely
furnished with period antiques and local art. 2
BB?BA —, sleeps 6. Separate guest cottage -
sleeps 2. Perfect for 2 to 3 couples. Private
vacation residence occasionally available for
rent either weekly or nightly wl 3 nt. min.

Call (804) 355-0002.

 

<<£a2:ma.za’@2/

.._.».»...........,

“Adi 

FlNE SJNISEERXE

ll,
fu-

 

0rchardsdeYam Shop

52”“, y°"i£O‘°;°W 6, Knitting Specialty Shop
’ 273 Rapmne Road .
Raphlne, VA 24472
Fetina P 540-348-5220-1-877-NI'l'-YARN
Fl an
Ha ky ky Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
Cosabella . . . -
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
- Le Mystele and novelty yams. kits, needles and
Ananng d accessories. Customer service from sum to
may QFW finish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.
21 W Nelson st °""°' "M ”’ 8‘ d“
Hal be Lain to and Slaunlan
 0,, [_g1f/‘:34 wM¢:i:n205,  miles west on
Mon “' Fr! 1  Rome   Road. Locritcd on“ W0"ki”S
Sat 10,6 fann that oﬂers "U-PICA opportunities for fmh

“séngper ubi sub ubi”

ﬁuit-when in season.

'Ilies . Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed imlil sun
umbxsinmslionsnm

 

Team kicks into h



 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD / RING-TUMPHI

igh gear

Wednesday’s game leaves soccer girls victorious

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR SPORTS REPORTER

A defeated Hollins College
left Lexington on Wednesday
after the W&_L Women’s soc-
cer team defeated their compe-
tition with a sweeping 10-0.

Following the trend from
the women’s game against
Greensboro, sophomore Anne
Wiltshire led the charge with

two goals. Wiltshire scored her
two goals within 10 minutes of
each other to get the Generals
off to a clear lead over Hollins.
The team led 7-0 at the halftime
break. Other goal earners in-
cluded Shana Oltmans, Cara
Burton, Sarah Helms, Conner
Esworthy, Martha Caulkins,
Kerry Giblin, Casie Pedroza,
and Mary Clair Turner.

Goalkeeper Emily Binns pro-

tected the net for the Generals,
preserving the teams un-
touched net and claiming her
first win of the year.

The Generals suffered a
disappointing loss to ODAC
rival Virginia Wesleyan on Sat-
urday with a ﬁnal score of 3-1.
Senior Captain Kelley Zagol
scored the only goal for W&L.

Harvey enthusiastic
about W&L football

BY KATHERINE KRALL
STAFF WRITER

At the home opener against
Sewanee this past Saturday, the
Washington and Lee football
team turned heads with their com-
manding win, but one player
stood out. With one dazzling
play, Kyle Harvey solidiﬁed the
win, broke a ﬁve year defensive
scoring drought, and established
himself as one of the premier de-
fensive backs in the conference.
After racking up ﬁve tackles and
two sacks, Harvey returned an
interception fifty yards for a
touchdown. For his performance,
Kyle Harvey, a freshman from
Columbia, South Carolina, was
named Athlete of the Week.

Harvey began to play Pop
Warner football when he was just
nine years old. The son of a foot-
ball player, Kyle inherited
athleticism and natural talent
from his father. At Richland
Northeast high school, he ex-
celled in the sport, and his hard
work paid off when he was named
to the All-Regional team his se-

ninryear Itwasaclearchojcem playing thc game and does so

Tuesday 
°Field,Hockeyj  -I I ‘
at .Ly‘nchburg--4:_3()p

 

Wednesday

' M Soccer at Emory
and Henry--4

” I ' W Soccer vs. HOllins——4:30

        
     
   

play football in college. “Foot-

ball is part of my life. I don’t know

what I would do without it. I just
really love the game. People have
always told me that I am not big
enough, not strong enough, not
fast enough. I want to prove

them wrong” said Harvey.

The transition from high
school to college was an adjust-
ment, but one that Harvey made
quickly. “W&L is a lot tougher
mentally. You have to learn reads,
coverages, formations. Also,
you are playing against twenty-
two year old grown men, whereas
in high school you are playing
against teenage boys,” said
Harvey.

His ability to play well and
play smart is obvious at the
games, but even more so on the
practice field. Big plays are not
products of chance, and Harvey
is a prime example of this. His
work ethic is incredible, as he
balances a full academic course
load- with difficult practices and
a full schedule of games. “Kyle
is a hard working, very dedicated
football player. He truly enjoys

 Week in 

with enthusiasm, intensity and
focus,” said head coach Frank
Miriello.

Kyle Harvey proved his ability
at pre—season camp, but his real
chance to play came when two
defensive starters were injured
early in the season. Thrust into

- a playmaking position, Harvey

was forced to step up. He was
surrounded by a supportive team.
“The upperclassmen are a great
group of guys, and they are not
opposed to freshmen playing.
They put the success of the team
first, we all do,” said Harvey. He
named Stuart Swan as a player
who has been a strong role model
to him.

Although it would be easy
to let the success go to his head,
Harvey remains humble and com-
mitted to the success of the team,
rather than focusing on his own
accolades. He explains, “I just
want to be able to contribute to
the team as much as possible.
For our team to be successful is
the biggest goal. I want this team
to change what everyone thinks
about W&L football.”

Fdday

° Volleyball at

Emory Invitational--4230

° Field Hockey at

Eastern Mennonite-—5:30 ,

  

Sunday

' W Soccer at Chowan--l

 

 

 

W&l. Bookstore l'l'tlStlllIS...

I Wlltlklv teature til the Bookstore Illlll M0 I/II]-ﬂllll PIII

This lllek:

 

AMERIC

{’1‘ittr'Z B{}~0I>‘{} .

A iiiziwrfes {bride ts l)r>r'm'ar..>r‘:my Ixrrtrzitrrt

    

eheelnr. irreverent. and nlaviulhl ingenu-
ous, this ahhreviated history or demoe-
raev is evervthintl one would exneet irom
the writers oi eomedv eentraI's ialte news
Ilrodram. The hooli is laid out like a text-
Iroolt. with “niseussion Questions," "class
room lletivities," and nlenhi oi amusintl
tlrailhies. it must tor lon stewan tans.

‘a list oi the whitest Il.S. Presidents
'ste|l|ren eolherrs guide to dressing like a W
~ lonmalist
'll guide Ill tlflllklllll names It! lllﬂ while Vltlltllllllll

lloonlar nrlee: $24.95 This week: $19.95

BlucRidge
P,'r~r*rs1c:.arr. Teerzarr

C’.Z‘are with gear: ta mind

&§3-f;733$
72$ eiairtir Lee Hwy
Lexirrgten, VA

ffﬁeiiega Square shagging wearer}

Jeiirz .3 J 3 C?

Specializing in;
Ortirepeziies
Sparta Medic-inc

Sarina? Meeiiieatioa
iiest-£3? reirabEii*tai::ier1

zreaaaeaz. C3?’ 3301:? ieszrranee.

ta LIFE

Pierzse eaié er step by re speak with arm afcizar saaﬁ"
metaaem: wit}: £2.32}? gyzeesriomz you ferry have eeaeemfag yaw

FNJJLYFDWARDS
AR’IS&L1PEEDIIOR

EMAr;Er)wArDsrM@wLUrDtJ

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 27, 2004 "

Freshmen fight the fifteen fiend

BY KATHERINE GREEN
STAFF WRITER

It’s the threat that lurks behind every ﬁench fry, around every candy
bar, inside every package of Easy Mac. It’s the Freshman 15, and it’s cur-
rently instilling fear in the hearts of young women on campus.

What is this ﬁend which causes pants to grow tighter and swimsuits to
suddenly become unfashionable? It’s the phenomenon which purportedly
causes once-lean college freshrnan women to experience sudden weight
gain. According to Jan Kaufman, di— - '
rector of health promotions here at
W&L, it’s nothing to panic over and
can be easily avoidable.

“The average gain is usually only
about ﬁve pounds,” she said, but
added, “It doesn’t really have to hap-
pen.”

a bad thing, having them three times a day is probably not a good choice,”
she said.

Exercise is also important, she said. “Women really need to include
exercise. . . perhaps four or ﬁvetirnes a week.” She added that the form of

workout is not important. “It could just be a brisk 30 minute walk,” she said.

“Aloohol oonsurnption also adds a lot of empty calories,” she said. “I
really do think that’s one thing to think about” The average beer, she
explained, contains about 150 calories, while lightbeerhas l 10. “But as they’
drink more, the calorie intake just goes up from there.”

Also, mixed drinks, which are more
popular among women in particular, are
the highest in calories. “You have to
include all the calories in the fruit juices
and syrups [such as sour mix or daiquiri
syrup] as well as those in the shot it-
self.” Even a simple mix, such as rum
and coke, contains approximately 200

So why does this happen to 18-year- calories.
old women, in particular? What a lot of these women don’t real-

Kaufrnan said thereare generally four ize, she said,is thatthey aredrinking the
factors affecting ﬁeshman women spe— equivalent of ameal or moreincalories
ciﬁcally: hormonal changes, unbal— each night when they party.

anced nutrition, decrease in activity,
and a sudden spike in alcohol con-
surnption.

Health Center nurse Jan Asbury
agrees. “It is more of an emotional
and physical adjustment than any-
thing else,” she said. “A lot of female
students especially put on a lot of
weight because their whole routine
changes.”

One ﬁeshman woman, who wished
to remain anonymous, said her rou-
tine has changed drastically in the past

“I want to stress that no one should
substitute drinking for eating,” she said.
“It becomes a dangerous situation be-
cause they get intoxicated quicker.”

There is hope for concerned freshman
women, however. Anyone, regardless
of weight, can seek help or advice at the
Student Health Center on the bottom
ﬂoor of Hall, at the Health Pro-
motions oﬂioe in Commons 232, or from
seminars Panhellenic is planning on
holding sometime this winter.

Kaufman said, “It’s important [to seek

month.

“I actually eat three meals a day now,
instead of two,” she said, but added
that she also feels she’s eating unhealthy foods. “I always try to get greens,”
she said, “Butl never used to drink coffee and now I have to to stay awake
in lectures.”

She also expressed concern over Marketplace choices. “’Ihere’s certain
things I have no control over,” she said, “like how much mayo goes on my
sandwich or how much butter is in a recipe. . .When you don’t cook your-
self, you don’t really know how much fat is in [your food].”

“And that fro-yo machine,” she added, “I just can’t stay away from it!”

Is this a helpless situation? Kaufman says it’s not. “The key thing is there

‘ has to be balance,” she said. “Women have to be careful about the choices

they’re making.”

She explained that typically, students don’t get enough fruits and veggies,
and said women really need to introduce more whole grains and ﬁber into
their meal equations. “Although french fries once in awhile isn’t necessarily

help] early, because problems you de
velop in college stay with you in life.”
So if you reach the top of a ﬂight of
ﬁve steps feeling winded, think twice before reaching for the Fudgesicles in
your Micro-Fridge. Remember moderation and keep the Freshman 15 from
taking over your life.
Students interviewed chose to remain anonymous due to the sensi-
tive nature of the topic.

ILLUSTRATION BY EMILY HULEN

 

LCl><I><I)CI><I>(l><l><I>(I>Cl>(I><l><I)

2° V1H>U>letI

L
I
F
E-J

VI/e/co//re §fM.e/7fs/

We invite you to take
a walk down
Washington Street and !
meet some

local artists at Artists in Cahoots,

a cooperative gallery

on the corner of

Washington and Main.

Pa/)7/i7'lﬂg?s - Wood Cd/V/‘ﬁgs - P/iozfogm///3 - Poﬁzferxy
/-/4/idem/$94 fey;/e//y - 6/ass
24¢/e/died 150 W&£ am’ [ex/Jtrgfoﬂ

 
  
 

IStS in
Cahoots
Lexington, Virginia
540-4644 147
www.an‘istslncahoots.com

Open: l0~5;3O Monday—Saturday
1 1-3 most Sundays

2'M'ki'&‘h'h"L'&"§'S‘Bi'Iz‘§u"&\'h"h‘§*§n?'|:‘§"iu'§e“§‘ﬁ/"Ir9'Iu?Ir’ln§r§r"|n?'I5"In§'i:-$‘U'ln§"|v‘h%'hr'ln§r'h'%'§i'iré"In*Iu\uW:'h'§r"|rWx'l:&:

Blue Ridge
ﬂlllﬂ BBIIIBI

is nrrw 4:1 

Wﬂﬁehwtitiﬁ .  . E

8.3

   

  

seteials

a3-ve:rcfant~ tear 3 ihnitd ti-me _

>1-saaazmm-g

  
 

 

Else tibiae  mm at eamm nutltereeaom have when totem to 
  I  I I.  -  toned or swims sue! manetmm
more ilmﬁm Sehlaeemst 

”l.ﬁl!tiﬁ!e" Elmflilsﬂ Qt‘ ENE! 51 ﬂiﬂeﬁﬂ its Rtlaﬁﬂllit.
0 KBHIH  It vﬁﬂfﬂili Eliﬁﬁ. 4» flit! it ilﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁ fﬂﬁﬂmﬁiliiliﬂﬁ it-
al-¥l3llllliT£ﬂ T3333 if HEIRS. El‘! «Ir ﬁt?“ ﬁﬂtflﬂﬁﬁ O

eranrt enéng

“ " " éihiriei " '  tinarneairieaatemiif 
ﬁisstaiaiexamieelmritﬁer ;
new me: as M 

 sue Ridge Ante eemer

 ’1i£J“l*a i:iiitag:rre::iia lure true verasea iilista. ea :
= -is-we“.Mia.-5am'a.s.e.a*o.-s~ea.'e'a.-r.m1-that-has-it-is-itvrrvrr-his-sa.auar—1.1.'s'e-satrearsihis-e-53'-ax:

  

 

‘ti-

atcmimu me 2
Stanton at Sttwﬁﬁ E :

1

   

  

5--26"!-:-933?)‘. Q

    

3.3%" i I .
Perm. Cart nxmamroxr cm
Onderfrommrr . -menu

Orjeiar rarﬁ7roawfourAl.£ mvarnmrww

~FridaytﬁglttSeafoedBut&tvétlaGrabLege5PM~tOPM
~Seturclay l~fght8tewt&Sltt'ittip'5Pl§-twat
~Surrday Baked Chicken assumes ttA!r!«%
—~%ktasz8ar7DaysaWeek8im-11AM
~l:teiiy Hatcountiy Bar ttaﬂ-3093!
~t}aI?lySow, Salad. 8: Fm38w1tAlr§—t.eP!A

Home Cooker! Meals 8' Smzﬂrem Hospitality!

0rderBrea%st 24HoursaDxy,Scwmdaysaw&

Located at
LEE HI TRAVEL PLAZA
3'-31‘ I$4,EXWI”,35I6N0mﬂl»WHWY, ,VA
S48-463-3478
C~3'rutFar>¢t&agrea&r:o§oet=ioa of

 

anetqwfadaicwaartiufoysl

PAGE 8

THE

  
 

’l"Hli%i RiN<}~n‘sA:i PH}.

AST ORD

EMILYEDWARDS
A1uS&L1EEEDrIoR

HM m

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

Freshmen guys: be yourself, even if it means enjoying girly drinks

It is one of the hardest decisions we, as ‘students
at Washington and Lee, have to make. The decision
you make will forever determine how you are thought of.

The decision I am of course referring to is what you
are going to drink on Friday and Saturday nights.

When at a party or bar, and the bartender asks
“what’ll it be,” what will you say? And more importantly,
at our oh—so—vain school, how will that decision reflect
on you? .

If you say I’ll have a screwdriver, this
means, you are a freshman and are only or-
dering that because that’s the only drink
you know. .

You haven’t quite had the experience that the rest
of us have had. You may say, “Well my screwdriver is
different because it has cranberry juice in it too.” But
remember this, the more fruit juice in your drink the more
fruity you look.

Color should be a key factor in choosing your poi-
son. The closer your drink is to brown, the more mascu-
line you look. This is why any whiskey on the rocks is
always a good call. Just don’t make a face when you
force it down your throat.

No matter what Tim Smith says, don’t try his croc cool-

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE

ers out of a Nalgene. Yes, they do taste amazing, but they
are like a German prostitute, fun to party with until your
friends see you. The bright green color makes people ques-
tion which team you’re on.

On the flip side, a White Russian is always a good
choice. For those of you unfamiliar with this choice
beverage, it was immortalized by “the Dude.” Referred
to by “the Dude” as a “Caucasian,”_ this drink proves’
that dairy products and alcohol can go
together. However this drink is rarely pro-
vided at parties so make sure to drink
these up at the rare cocktail parties that

, provide them.

If you truly want to have an out—of—body experience,
tequila shots are the only way to go. Tequila allows for
the second best pick up line of “Wanna take a body shot?”
(The best line of course being, “Hey, ever slept in a frat
bed before?). Just remember that eventually, you will have
that one experience with tequila that will prohibit you from
ever drinking it again. So enjoy the Mexican sauce while
you still have the stomach for it.

By the way, on the subject of shots, do not ever
take a shot of Kaluha. I know, I know, you are saying,
“Who in the world would ever do that.” But trust me,

sometimes you have one of those nights where you
aren’t quite thinking clearly, and right before you go up-
stairs with a girl loosely resembling your golden re-
triever, you down a shot or two of Kaluha.

Also make sure you know what you are drinking. If
some guy says, “Hey, let’s go have five shots of 151,”
you better understand what 151 will do to you.

And freshmen, listen up. Don’t drink stuff out of a
trash can unless you know what it is. A friend of mine
recently had a freshman tell him about the amazing grain
he had had at some party during Orientation Week. Ap-
parently they poured like five handles into the garbage
can to make the grain.

Grain is not made by pouring vodka or rum into a gar-
bage can. It is a type of alcohol that must be brought
across the border from West Virginia. Most drinks out of
a garbage can are either Sangria (wine, fruit juice, and
sprite) or a simple mix of handles and Kool—aid and juices.

But when it comes down to it, as long as you are
having fun it doesn’t matter whether you are drinking
grain, tequila, Natty Light, or water. If Cosmopolitans
make you happy, drink up. We work way too hard at this
school, and we have to be careful not to let work engulf
our social life too.

77ie oﬁfeers qfKat/ie.€on and’ t/ie ‘I4/as/iington

anfliee 'Unz’oersz't_‘y ,4/umnz'/’lssoez'atz'on are
péasef to announce t/ie 2004-2005’ ‘Was/iz'ngton
and'£ee Jforneeonzing Court.

Representing Cﬁi Omega is Ms. ]i[[ ‘V1/aity.
Representing Cﬁi (Psi is 91/15. Kaitfin fllipfanalp.
Representing tﬁe Kappa /lgnﬁa Order is Ms. Katﬁryn Tempfe.
Representing Kappa flip/ia ‘Iiieta is Ms. Efizalietﬁ Tafco.
Representing Kappa (Defta is Ms. 9!/larion Trierson.
Representing Kappa Kappa gamma is 91/15. Catﬁerine ‘Torrey Strouzi
Representing Kappa Sigma is Ms. £[iza6etﬁ /lmoni.
Representing Lamﬁcfa Cﬁi ﬂlﬂpfia is Ms. Cefia Lancfgren.
Representing t/ie Law Scﬁoof C[ass qf2005 is 9!/ls. /lngeﬂz Ernst.
Representing t/ie Law Scﬁoof Cﬁzss of 2006 is Ms. Sara jl[[enso,n.
Representing tﬁe Law Scﬁoof Chss of2007 is Ms. 9!/lerecfit/i ﬂiiernat/iy.
Representing t/ie ,9!/linority Stucﬂants /’lssociation is 91/15. Kaela Yfarmon.
Qpresenting Q’/ii (Delta ‘17ieta is Ms. Ke[[y Jo Larsen. '
Representing Rﬁi gamma (Deﬁta is 91/15. Leigﬁ Otey.
Representing Q’/ii Kappa Q’si is Ms. Mary flﬁfric/i.
Representing <Pﬁi Kappa Sigma is Ms. ﬂffyson Se[6y.
Representing (Pi Reta on is Ms. Susan Somers.
Representing @i Kappa /lfpﬁa is Ms. Kara Leﬁman.
Representing Q’i Kappa (P/ii is Ms. Efisalietﬁ Rutney.
Representing Sigma fllpﬁa Epsifon is Ms. grace (Barfow.
Representing Sﬂllﬁ is 91/15. Saran Jafri.
Representing Sigma Cﬁi is 91/15. 9!/lartﬁa flflgooci
Representing Sigma Wu is 91/15. Rian Lewis.

Homecoming provides many
wonderful chances for one to get ob-
scenely drunk, sleep in bushes, and
go to the hospital. It also provides
many chances for the quintessential
fashion faux pas. On that note, I shall
offer you freshmen ladies and gentle-
men a few tips for a safe, happy, and
fashionable Homecoming weekend.

Homecoming Fashion 101

Little Black Dress + Vineyard Wnes = The Winning Couple

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Freshmen guys, the football games
are all about pastel shorts. Shirt and
tie (jacket optional) are a must, but
wear long pants, and you will most cer-
tainly face frat—ostracization. Bonus
points for a Vineyard Vines tie.

Guys should wear either the stan-
dard navy blazer and tie with khakis or
a suit to the cocktail parties. While it is

night DJ bash.

W&L actually won their game.

Saturday’s football games.

heels.

your prized stilettos.

 

TS

Q If some girls are cows, then men are the patties
for them to step on.

Q The second ﬂoor Graham—Lees boys love Cathy
and #48!

Q Discussing your new diet Friday night with a
mixed in your hand? Classic.

Q Professor Meghan Griffith actually said this
in class, “You were made possible by certain bio-
logical actions.”

Q Way to go GDI rush! Five independent girls
made homecoming court.

Q Hey Dean Leonard, how about some good toilet
paper in the freshmen dorms?

  There was someone rappelling off the Cadaver
Bridge yesterday!

Q Joke: Kerry and Edwards are at McDonald’s
doing some campaigning. An employee, in her
excitement, spills some coffee on Kerry’s hand.
Edwards wants to sue — but Kerry wants to write it
up for his fourth purple heart.

Q Kudos to the Marketplace for deciding to serve
American food this year.

Q I love my online poker “dork” who won $17,000
so far!

Q There is no better friend than a Nalgene by
your side...with what other drink receptacle can
you measure your liquor in 8, 12, or 16 ounces.

Q You’ve heard of the cookie monster, well Eric
Nelson is the chocolate monster.

Q If you bum down your neighbor’s house, you’ll
have a whole lot of new enemies.

Q Oh my gosh! Has anyone else tried the new
Hershey’s kisses that are injected with caramel!
So good!

Q I think that we need a longer Christmas break.

Q When I call in sickl am usually in bed with.... a)
a fever over 101, b) a hangover, or c) a new friend.
Which is the correct answer?

Q Tight jeans are hot, khakis are not.’

Q Lambda Chi’s Tropical Party was awesome!

Q Jennifer Aniston married a journalism major,
you should too.

Q Rumor has it, Avril Lavigne has a child. The
best kept secret in the entertainment industry.

Q Any freshman guy who is already wearing the
pink polo shirt with the collar up, backwards
croakies, seersucker shorts, and rainbow sandals
should be shot.

Q A big thank you to the grounds crew for dis-
persing that pleasant smelling fertilizer this week!

Q Our Photo Editor almost got arrested. That
would have been tragic.

Q I kissed a guy simply because I couldn’t stand
listening to him any longer.

Q Kudos to Kristine Early for holding the Lambda
record with 51 goldﬁsh

Q Oprah is so cheap! Elli only gets to keep one
outfit from her shopping “spree” and now the people
who won the free cars have to pay almost $10,000
to pay in taxes.

Q I’m sorry we kissed last night. When can I!
have your children?

 

neither skanky nor dowdy. Leave the
excessive cleavage for a sketchy late

If you are going to a cocktail party
on both Friday and Saturday, do not
wear the same dress. Also, have fun on
the second night. Don’t get so wasted
on Friday that you cannot function on
Saturday. You’ll never know whether

The sundress is appropriate for
Think
bright, but nix the Lilly. You prob-
ably won’t want to wear spiked
The Law School field can be
treacherous when parading around in

We will not neces-
start off sary to
with the match your
cocktail date, it
dress. You looks great
can never in pictures.
go wrong Remember
with the clas- to never,
sic “little ever wear a
b l a c k s h o r t
dress.” Re- s l e e v e d
III e m b e r , dress shirt.
girls, that This - is
youarebe— fashion
ing watched suicide for
by upper- a guy.
classmen. Moving on
This dress __ ,_ to etiquette.
Should be PHOTOS COURTESY OFJCREWLOM AND NElMANMARCUS.COM Guys, when

walking on the street, remember to al-
ways walk on the outside. This is so
your date does not get her dress dirty
by a passing car. At dinner, pull out
the chair for your date and regardless
of how hungry you are, do not start
eating until everyone at your table has
his or her food.

Later that night at the cocktail party,
do not make your date get a drink while
you talk to the guys. The older brothers
will note the chivalry if you get the lady
a drink yourself.

Lastly, For the courtesy of every-
one involved, do not make out on the
dance ﬂoor. You have a room somewhere,

use it.

Q When is Kappa Sig’s redneck bash? I want to hit
another car.

Q Freshmen, don’t complain that the only liquor
you see at a party is Aristocrat. That’s so low class.

Q Sarah and Lara: Chi-O’s dancing queens.

Q You know something is ﬁshy when the EC Presi-
dent fails to obey the speaking tradition but Lane
Morgan can.

Q As a matter of fact, the EC President was on the
phone with her father— the guy who pays her tuition;
however, she would love to get to know the indi-
vidual to whom she inadvertently did not “SPEAK.”

Q I like picas. Not to be confused with PiKAs.
Well, I guess I like them too.

Q Girls, need a homecoming date? Ask a guy. There
are few things sexier than a girl who takes charge.

Q Girls, need a homecoming date? Ask a guy. There
are few things sexier than a girl who takes charge.

Q When was the last time you had a DTR?

Q Taking off a grass skirt proved easier than I
thought

(13 Email your anonymous quick hits to
phi@wlu.edu

  

 

I
P

BY WHITNEY DUFFY
STAFF wRITER

Currently, students at the University of Vir-
ginia are working to change their single sanction
honor system to one with varied punishments
based on the severity of the offense. A group of
students, called Hoos Against the Single Sanction,
has formed and been active around the UVA cam-
pus in their efforts to eliminate the single sanction.
This group’s goal is to “energize the honor policy-
making process by expanding it to the community
of trust at large,” according to a press release. Their
honor policy, first created in 1842 (yes-before that
of Washington and Lee!), had the goal of creating
a W&L-like environment, but in practice has fallen
short of this ambition.

One of the reasons that the anti-single sanc-
tion movement has garnered so much support is
that the UVA honor system has long struggled to
be effective at the school. Many students and pro-
fessors do not report honor violations, either tak-
ing matters into their own hands or, as more often
is the case, ignoring the problem. As a result of this
attitude, the system has been examined many times
in the past, but never quite like it is being ques-
tioned currently. Co—founder of the Hoos Against
Single Sanction, UVA student Marco Rivera, said,

Off-roading

expert to speak

on Tuesday

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

On Tuesday evening the Contact Committee
will bring Bill Burke to speak to the Washington
and Lee community about backcountry driving.
Contact, a committee dedicated to bringing vari-
ous speakers to the W&L community, has several
speakers planned for this school year. 4

Bill Burke is a 4x4 trainer and one of the fore-
most experts on winching and extrication methods.
He is an outﬁtter guide throughout the National
Forest Service and also serves as a consultant to
countless 4-wheel drive companies and organiza-
tions. He also competed in the Camel Trophy, which
is a 1,200 mile race in Africa.

The speech, held in the Commons from 7-8
p.m. Tuesday, will include a slide show along with
stories of his adventures and teaching the basic art
of 4-wheeling.

In addition to speaking to the W&L commu-
nity, Burke will also be leading a trip Monday from
3-8 in the evening. A group of students will be
heading to Shoecreek where Burke plans on teach-
ing some useful techniques in offroading.

David Kronenfeld ‘07, publicity chairman of

the Contact Committee who played a vital role in
getting Burke to speak is very excited about the
event. “He is amazing,” says Kronenfeld, “Bill is
definitely one of the best in the world and has an
amazing story to tell. It’s well worth coming to
even if you have never even heard of backcountry
driving.”

If you are interested, you can contact David
Kronenfeld ’O7 at kronenfeldd@wlu.edu, or Brent
Beshore ’05 at beshoreb@wlu.edu.

Nabors holds Fall
Service Challenge

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Nabors Service League will kick off its armual
Fall Service Challenge on Saturday, October 9, con-
necting dozens of W&L students with service op-
portunities at local sites including libraries, retire-
ment communities, and the Rockbridge Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Volunteers will be sorted into groups based on
a list of tasks that each ranked according to prefer-
ence. N abors’ to—do list includes apple picking, car
washing, painting, yardwork, trash pick-up, con-
struction, and more. The Challenge also needs stu-
dents to be drivers or project leaders at each Site.

The groups will trundle out to their projects in
the morning or in the afternoon. In between, N abors
plans to treat all workers to a late morning brunch
on Cannan Green. Volunteers will also walk away

'1 Lee as the first social fraternity

   

T/ye rindeni none of Wei/iz'ngton and Lee Uninmin rinte 7897 ,

“We are merely trying to create a forum and see
what other people believe we should institute,” in-
stead of the single sanction. The UVA student body
seems open to the idea and their Honor Committee
(the UVA equivalent of the Executive Committee)
also seems receptive. “The
Committee is always support-
ive of students getting in-
volved outside of Honor to
help shape the system,” said
Honor Committee Chair
Meghan Sullivan, “It’s a good
thing for the honor system.”
But is it really? And can
we at W&L expect any
changes in our own system as
a result? The response from
the EC was an emphatic no.
“I do not think that a
change at UVA will have any
impact on W&L’s system.”
Marie Trimble, EC President, securely stated. “Stu-
dents who attend W&L come to this university
with the knowledge that we not only have a sys-
tem, but that we actually abide by it and live by it.”
Cristin Nunez, EC Vice—President, agreed with
Trimble, saying that while a change in such a promi-
nent university might cause students to question

“How are we, as members of the
EC, to decide if actions are only
slightly dishonorable or mostly
honorable? There is no way to
draw the line, and I look forward
to seeing how UVA is going to
accomplish this.”
CRISTENNUNEZ.
ECI/ICE-PRESIDENT

the single sanction, she would hope that ‘‘we don’t
change our standards here simply because of the
inﬂuence of other universities.”

Seasoned Honor Advocate Michael Lee, who
has worked on several EC investigations and closed
hearings, stated ﬁrmly that,
“No change to UVA’s honor
system could possibly affect
us here...The fact that other
universities are changing their
Honor Codes might even be
reason enough for us to en-
sure that our System doesn’t
change.”

So is there a possibility
that future student bodies will
question and attempt to
change our own single sanc-
tion system? “VVith the cur-
rent EC,” noted Nunez, “I
think nothing will change.
When we were elected, the student body knew our
views on the single sanction and elected us any-
way.” However, Nunez did mention, “I would never
rule out the possibility of a system change in the
future.”

“The Single Sanction is such a fundamental
tradition of the Honor System as handed down

Homecoming 2004

ROYALTY. Katie Abplanalp, escorted by Chi Psi member Chris McNamara, smiles to the crowd after being
named the 2004 Homecoming Queen during halftime of this weekend’s football game.

Two fratemities

celebrate

important anniversaries this year

Phi Kappa Psi, Kappa Alpha Order planning events 5

BY KATHERINE SHELL

ASST. NEWS EDITOR 05'

Last weekend Phi Kappa Psi
began its yearlong celebration of

its 150"‘ 3~nniVeT5a1Y as Well as the Alumni Weekend this year will be cember 21, 1865 in honor of Rob-
celebration of being the first focused around the ert E. Lee. Convivium this year
social fraternity on cam- sesquicentennial will focus on the 140"‘ celebration. ’

pus. Plans for this next
calendar year’s

  
  

events are still in the tion of the 150"‘ likely we will celebrate on the fol-
W0rl<s, but Various annivers ary lowing weekend. No specific
Weekends, Such "as will occur Sep- plans are in the works yet, how-
Alumni Weekend, the tember 8-1 1, ever,” states KA’s president
sesquicentennial in 2005. “This Mark Franceski ’05. Comprised
March. aIldI1eXtl‘l0me- weekend will of Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma
coming will revolve feature golftour- Nu, both founded at VMI, along
around 150 years of Phi naments, alumni with the Kappa Alpha Order,
Psi for the fraternity. Also, dinners, and speakers these three fraternities form what
the Kappa Alpha Order will cel— at Lee Chapel. Over 150 Vir— is commonly called the Lexing-
ebrate its 140"‘ year in 2005 as the ginia Beta alumni are expected ton Triad. i

Alpha Chapter. to attend this celebration,” Because the fraternity I

Phi Psi was founded on
March 3, 1855 at Washington and
port has carried
Phi Psi through
its 150 years.
Jerry Nelson, a
successful busi-

on campus. The Alpha Chapter
of Phi Psi was founded at Wash-
ington and Jefferson College in
Washington, Pennsylvania. The

Kappa Psi Erik Kiewet de Jonge
This weekend’s Homecom-

ing celebration kicked off the
150"‘ anniversary celebration and

as well. The big-

states Kiewet de Jonge.
Alumni sup-

positions.

For the Alpha chapter of the
Kappa Alpha Order, 2005 will
mark its 140"‘ anniversary since it
was founded on campus on De-

“’Ihe 19th (General Lee’s birth-

gest celebra- day) falls on Wednesday, so most

svstem is a part of
today’s life at
W&L, the cel—
ebration of the
first social frater-
nityaswellasthe
founding of three

 

, MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Wahoos considering change to their single sanction system

since General Lee’s time that I don’t think it will
change,” affirmed Lee, “to do so would be to claim
that General Lee was wrong, and that won’t
ﬂy. . .The Honor System is not perfect, but as long
as the student body understands it and knows how
to behave honorably according to the system’s
guidelines, its benefits will always outweigh its
drawbacks.”

So, if instated, will the UVA change work?
“There are honorable actions and dishonorable
actions,” said Nunez, “How are we, as members of
the EC, to decide if actions are only slightly dis-
honorable or mostly honorable? There is no way to
draw the line, and I look forward to seeing how
UVA is going to accomplish this. They’re basically
judging degrees of integrity right now.”

UVA’s own EC, the Honor Committee, has re-
cently formed an ad hoc committee to decide just
that, whether or not degrees of integrity can be
measured fairly. Its final proposal will then be voted
on by the UVA student body in the spring of next
year.

As for back home at W&L, the single sanction
seems safe for the moment. However, with recent
student elections, this responsibility to either up-
hold or discard tradition in the best interest of the
student body now lies in hands of new student
representatives. ~

C—Schoolnow

housed in  
Huntley Hall

‘ BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Former Washington and Lee president, Bob
Huntley, was recognized Saturday when the build-
ing that houses the Williams School formally be-
came Huntley Hall. The name change is a result of
the board wanting to honor President Huntley for
all his contributions to W&L.

The budding was originally a Carnegie Library.
Andrew Carnegie built libraries for schools all over
the country. It was enhanced and enlarged by gifts
from the Cyrus McCormick family. The building
then became the McCormick Library. When
Leybum was completed in the 1970s, the name
McCormick Library was dropped from the building
and it was never renamed. At the same time as the

library moved to Leyburn, the business school _

moved from N ewcomb to its current location. Stu-
dent began calling the building the C-School.

“McCormick had a long run, but his time has
passed,” said James Farrar, Secretary of the Uni-
versity and Assistant to the President.

Huntley graduated from the college in 1950
and the law school in 1957 and was president of
Washington and Lee from 1968-1983. During his
tenure as president, Leybum Library, the law school,
and the Warner Center were built, the McCormick
Library was converted to the School of Commerce,
and the physical plant grew significantly. “He
served the institution with great leadership and was
revered by students, faculty and alumni, and still
is,” said Cronin.

“He [Huntley] had one of the great challenges,”
said F arrar. Huntley arrived when chaos over Viet-
nam was breaking loose across college campuses.
Under his leadership, Washington and Lee did not
call off classes.
incompletes to protest if they wished. “He gave
the University level-headed and rational leadership
through the ‘70s,” said Farrar. Also during his time
as president, the first female law students and Afri-
can-American students matriculated.

, “When President Huntley came in the late ‘60s,
W&L’s development plan was still in the process
of manning,” said Farrar. As president, he launched
the ﬁrst multiniillion-dollar capital campaign. His
fundraising efforts took a burden off of the budget.
Financial aid and faculty salaries increased greatly
during his tenure.

One of his most significant acts as president
was board policy changes. When he arrived, the
board served life terms. He changed the policy so
there are term lirriits. “The sunset provides for new
energy, faces, and ideas,” said Farrar.

“The Vifilliams School is the name of the pro-
gram, not the building,” said Peter Cronin, Director
of University Development. Ernie Williams, for
whom the program is named, is a multimillion—dollar
donor to W&L. After graduating from W&L, he
became a stock broker and made a signiﬁcant in-
vestment in Washington and Lee. Both President

Students were allowed to take A

 

with a Commemorative water bome and the com- Virginia Beta chapter is the long— nessman and Phi fraternities in Lex- Burish and Dean Peppers contacted VVilliams about
fortable knowledge contributing to the Lexington est Continuous Chapter in the na‘ Psi. Offers an all- ington c0mmemo— the name change. Both Huntley and Williams are
H community. ti0n- “We Will Celebrate Our 0fti- expense paid rate a strong part proud the other is affiliated with the building.

4. Fall Service Challenge is only one event on Clal sesiluieehtehnial On March week at his resort of W&L’s history. When Huntley left W&L, he became CEO of
Nabors Service League’s packed calendar. Chal— 3, With eVeI1tS planned for that in Cabo San Students and Best& Company, run by the Sydney Lewis family.
lenge signups ended September 30, but new mem- day (3 Thursday) Or that Week- Lucas, Mexico, alumalikelook for— He currently resides in Lexington. The formal dedi—*
bers are always welcome. Anyone interested in er1d« The eVentS are Still in the where brothers can meet, vaca— ward to celebrating the upcom— cation took place outside of Huntley Hall 11 a.m.
further information can contact nsl@wlu.edu. Plannlngs” Says President Of Phi tion, and train for future business ing year. last

 

  

JAMES  tlEtl‘3tt'.-W ‘  ‘*
“V+"«SHiN'G‘v”ON 5: LE§.l':" ‘J
 '*=*rv<a VA zemso

 
 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Presidential election 2004

OB TRONG THE RING-M

LIBERAL INVASION. Over six hundred local Democrats, including approximately one hundred W&L students, attended the Blue Dog Bash.

Over six hundred dems converge for rally at the pavilion

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Enthusiastic Democrats swarmed Washington and Lee’s Pa-
vilion last Wednesday for the “Blue Dog Bash,” a political rally that
set record numbers in attendance for a Democratic event and drew
several local and state politicians. More than 600 supporters, includ-
ing about l00 Washington and Lee students, gathered in support of
the Democratic Party as time draws near to the November 2”“ elec-
tions.

“This is by far the largest, most enthusiastic crowd that I’ve
ever seen at a Democratic event,” proclaimed David N atkin, who is
running for Commonwealth’s Attorney in Rockbridge County, the
first political campaign of his career. In early July, the local organizers
believed that Wednesday’s rally would only draw around 200 sup-

’ porters. The Democratic leaders pointed to the policies of the Bush

Administration as the main cause that ‘has led to large turnouts to
similar gatherings across the state of Virginia.

J oarma Persio ’05, President of the the Young Democrats ,
believes that the Blue Dog Bash will help David Natkin’s campaign
for Commonwealth Attorney, and hopes that her organization’s ef-
forts in getting out the vote will be fruitful.

“We’ve done phone marketing to identify who is undecided,
and who is eligible to vote but not yet registered,” Persio described.

The voter registration deadline ran out today, Oct. 4”‘. The

. Young Dems will remain active on campus leading up to Nov. 2"‘.

This Wednesday, the organization is sponsoring a showing of
0utFOXed, a documentary exploring the alleged bias in Fox News. A
discussion of bias in the media will be led by Prof. Wassennan of the
Journalism school. The screening will begin at 6pm in the Commons
Theatre.

 

Democrats excited about prospects in GOP leaning Va.

Party sees changing face in Va.

BY ROB ARMSTRONG ' /

STAFF WRITER f

In a state that has voted Republican in every Presidential elec- I

tion since 1964, Democrats remain optimistic about Kerry’s chances

to defeat the incumbent in Virginia. Susan R. Swecker, the State

Director of the Kerry campaign and a graduate of W&L Law noted

that a recent Mason—Dixon poll, taken in the days leading up to the 1“,
debate, show Bush with only a slight lead in Virginia. The results

were Bush - 49%, Kerry - 43%, and 1% going to Nader. But as the

Nader campaign failed to get on the Virginia ballot, the recent poll

shows Kerry within the margin of error.

Despite Gallup polls showing a modest advantage to Bush
in crucial swing states, Swecker maintains that what is most impor-
tant is the work that is being done on the ground.

“What is really important,in terms of Virginia, is a turnout
like here,” Swecker said, “It’s happening all over the state, we are
seeing passion and enthusiasm to replace the Bush Administration,
to put in [the Whitehouse] a team of leaders to get our economy
going in this country and to get our world affairs in order.”

Swecker is also confident about Kerry’s advantages with
the 30 and younger crowd. She described an increase in student
political participation ‘on college campuses throughout the state of
Virginia, and believes that “the young generation has checked into

this election, and they’re saying,_ ‘we don’t like what the President is .

in

doing.

On a more local scale, David N atkin discussed a similar phe-
nomenon in getting out the vote. N atkin said that Rockbridge county
and Lexington city have seen “many more new citizens getting regis-
tered to vote this year.” Natkin believes that this new wave tended to
register with the Democratic party.

Creigh Deeds was the third Democratic speaker at the rally.
Deeds currently serves as State Senator in Va, and will run for Attor-
ney General in 2005. When questioned about polls pointing to a
Bush lead, Deeds remained confident, “The only poll that matters is
November 2"“. All you can do is keep moving forward.” Until then,
the alleged changing demographics of voters in Virginia and local
Rockbridge county will remain political speculation.

Chapel. plans events for e

BY KATHRYN KRALL

STAFF WRITER

October 1 1, 2004 marks the 134"‘ anniversary
of the death of Robert E. Lee. Every year, Lee Chapel
holds a Memorial Program in honor of the former
president and in celebration of his life accomplish-
ments. The theme for this year’s memorial is Lee

after the Civil War.

Events include a speech by Alex Wise, the .
director of the Tredegar National Civil War Center
in Richmond. He will preserit a lecture on ‘Lee’s '
inner quest entitled “Remembering Robert E. 
Antoinette Brennan, a member of the Colonial Per-
formers for the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation,
will give a dramatic reading of an article written in
the 1920s by Christina Bonds, who knew Lee as a
young girl at the Greenbrier Resort. In addition,
Brennan will talk about the interpretation of Lee’s

character from the memoirs.

Afterward, there will be a small tour of some
items in the Washington and Lee collection that
belonged to Lee. The tour will be led by Lee Chapel
Director Patricia Hobbs, and Gwendoline Greiner.

As an intern in Lee Chapel over the summer,
Greiner did much of the background research that
eventually developed into this program. “We re-
ally want to make the campus generally aware of
what is going on in an ongoing effort to make W&L’s
collections more familiar,” said Greiner.

 

_ KFORD HE
MEMORIALIZING. Patricia Hobbs and Gwen Greiner show Off an old sketch of Le

e anniversary

G-M PHI
e CHapel.

New look suggests that parking is not a simple problem

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The Phi reported last
week that the overwhelming
cause of limited campus park-
ing is due to delinquent stu-
dents. But after further investi-
gation, and a reassessment of
data that was received, the Phi
has concluded that last week’s
the problem was overly simpli-
fied.

Our previous article
found that the University ga-
rage was crowded despite an
alleged surplus in parking
spaces.

Last week’s conclusion
was drawn from comparing the
number of student registered
vehicles (541), to the total num-
ber of parking spots (609)-
However, a corrected tally of
registered student vehicles now
paints a different picture: there
just isn’t enough space to ac-
commodate everyone.

University Security re-
ports that a total of 619 students
have registered vehicles that
can freely use the garage for
parking. This ﬁgure is 10 more
than the number of total avail-
able spaces and 78 more ve-

_hicles than previously con-
cluded. In addition, this num-
ber does not take into account

faculty and staff vehicles that
have the freedom to park in most
lots around campus.

But since the faculty and
staff do not necessarily use the
University garage, it is “impos-
sible to determine an exact num-
ber of [W&L employees] that use
the garage on a given day,” ex-
plains Stephen Tomlinson, Asst.
Director of University Security.

The excess of registered ve- .

hicles to the garage does not nec-
essarily mean that there wouldn’t
be any open spaces available. Ac-
cording to Mike Young, Director
of University Security, “most
people aren’t there all the time . . .
there is a tum-over on a regular
basis.”

Young added that during
the first few weeks of the school
year, it is typical to have a spike in

- parking problems.

“People will begin to ﬁnd
other ways to get to school . . . and
the Davidson and Red Square
students may need some tickets
or to get towed a few times before
they start following the rules,” said
Young.

Although the current avail-
ability problems are expected as a
part of a new school season,
Young believes that this year has
been especially difficult. Reports
indicate that there are more com-
muting vehicles this year than in
the past. Moreover, there has

been a significant reduction in
overall parking due to the closure
of two surface lots as a result of
construction.

The Gaines dormitory park-
ing can only accommodate about
half of its 68 registered vehicles.

_ The overﬂow of vehicles was

once pushed to a surface lot that
had kept Gaines vehicles from us-
ing crucial spots in the garage
area. However, construction to
the Lenfest center has overtaken
the back-up lot, forcing the over-
ﬂow back into the University ga-
rage.

A second lot has been
eaten up by trailers being used
as ofﬁce space. Once temporary
classrooms for the Journalism
school during a renovation of
Reid Hall, the trailers now provide
office space to the physical plant.

It is estimated that over 90
spaces are not being utilized as a
result of the trailers. If the trailers
were to be remoi ed, the lot could
provide parking for residents of
Woods Creek. Such a move
would immediately free up 90
spaces in the garage that are be-
ing used as permanent parking.
Mike Young is not optimistic

about regaining either of these -

surface lots anytime soon. He is
currently discussing with the city
about additional surface lots.
One possible idea is to offer a
surface lot in proximity to the so-

rority houses. The garage cur-
rently hosts 68 student vehicles
from sororities.

Another idea would ex-
pand a small surface lot adjacent
to the University Mail Center, lo-
cated near Stop—In. Young be-
lieves that the expansion would
only open up more parking for
faculty and staff, but explains that
such a move would free up addi-
tional parking for students in
other areas on campus.

Young does not believe
that city ofﬁcials will hinder the
University’s efforts in building
new lots. “We have a good rela-
tionship with them,” Young said,
“and it is in their interest too.
They don’t want students taking
up downtown parking, because
then town residents won’t have
a place to par .” '

Last spring, a consultant
was hired to report on parking is-
sues at Washington and Lee. The
report is being ﬁnalized and will
be released in a few weeks.
Young believes that the Univer-
sity is moving towards a more
serious look at appropriate steps
to be taken regarding these prob-
lems.

In the meantime, Young
hopes that students, faculty, and

staff remain patient. He encour-'

ages commuters to car-pool, be-
lieving it will be easier on every-
one in the long run.

  

paholds annual Bowl-a-Thoqn

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER

Kappa Kappa Gamrna’s annual Philanthropy Bowl-a—Thon drew
about seventy people to Lexington Lanes last Thursday to beneﬁt
the American Heart Association.

The Bowl-a—Thon is Kappa’s first philanthropic event of the
year. All W&L students could bowl for free, and Kappa collected

. donations for the American Heart Association.

7 ' According to Kappa President Marian Steele, the B.owl-a—Thon
is a fun. way “to just get together with friends and go bowling.”
Kappas and other W&L community members alike were able to bowl
and socialize during the two hour event.

In December, Kappa will sponsor pictures with Santa in the
Elrod Commons and a 5K Marathon event, Race for Charlie, is planned
for the spring.

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Siiiiiiiiipintrontnt

EC-funded student organizations

must remain non-partisan.

Now that it’s time for EC budget al-
locations, we have a few words of cau-
tion for student organizations that plan
on asking for EC funds..

In the Student Budget Policy, the EC
puts forth its guidelines, “It is the Execu-
tive Committee’s policy not to directly
fund politically partisan organizations or
organizations that advocate a certain re-
ligious faith.”

We are concerned that some ‘student
organizations that receive EC funds are,
in fact, politically partisan. We are not
suggesting that these organizations
shouldn’t receive funds. They should,
however, keep a check on their activi-
ties.

Both the Washington and Lee Stu-
dents for Life and the Gay-Straight Alli-
ance have the echoes of political parti-
sanship in their missions. The GSA, for
example, had Kerry-Edwards signs at the
Student Activities Fair. S i m i l a r l y ,
Washington and Lee students for Life is
hosting a Reverend to talk October 21.

There is a fine line between express-
ing or even teaching one’s belief and po-
litical/religious advocacy. We feel these
two groups may have crossed that line.

Responsibility for holding to the Stu-
dent Budget Policy lies with both the Ex-
ecutive Committee and the student or-
ganizations.

The EC allocates money in good
faith. Presidents of all student organiza-
tions should strive to be politically, and
religiously, impartial.

Granted, many gay issues cross over
into the political arena. Abortion is con-
tinuously brought up as an issue in politi-
cal campaigns.

Both the GSA and Students for Life
have goals laudable to some or all, but
we wonder if perhaps their organizations’
aims lie outside the realm of appropriate,
EC-funded activities. ' ‘ ‘ '  '0

 

“He was a Greenwich born vivant who
enjoyed gourmet food, a drop Of wine On
festive occasions, a silk bed and his Velvet
collar ”

~Obituary for Fido Graham .in theﬂrst
edition of the New York Dog Magazine

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Ediotr

Sports Editor

Asst. layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Corbin Blackford
Marshall Rule

Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Copy Editors Dane Boston
Shane Wilson

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board. but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters, All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
S p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-rum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not ‘
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity."

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University
lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

l

   

CAIEYANOnzsON
OPINIONSEDHOR

mm m

4 N S

 

PAGE 3

“Withdraw” vs. “Dismissed”- transcript plea bargain
inconsistency for convicted HV students must be altered

Much of the current outrage from some stu-
dents regarding the honor system is, to borrow
a line from my man F. Scott Fitzgerald, just a lot
of sound and fury, signifying nothing. While
one might feel a general desire to “reform” the
honor system, it can often be hard to

their closed hearing, they have a stark fear of
the moment when the EC comes out of their
deliberations. The entire structure of their life
is threatened. And if the EC pronounces them
guilty, they get pushed close to the emotional

stead of the ominous “dismissed.” You can
dance around questions from the schools you
apply for transfer to a lot easier if you “with-
drew.” In other words, it’s easier to rebuild your
life, even if, in all reality, you didn’t really “with-

draw” in the sense of the word most

turn that desire into solid, affirmative
action. It is easier to blame the Execu-
tive Committee for failing to act than
to ask them to correct an injustice.
And since I believe that this year’s EC
is genuinely committed to positive
change and listening (and acting upon)
student thought regarding the honor
system,

MODERATE’S MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

I have a proposal.

When students leave this school
because of the Honor System, they
have a myriad of reasons why, and they
can do so at several different stages
in the process of judging a potential
Honor Violation. I’d imagine that it’s
hard for most students here to imag-
ine how it must feel to go through the
process of being tried on an HV, as the
number of people charged with viola-
tions each year is minimal, and a good
number of those leave the University.
Thus, many students admittedly can’t
comprehend what’s going on in the
heads of accused students.

As an Honor Advocate, I see and
deal with just this sort of accused stu-
dent. The emotional strain of it drives
people close to their breaking point-
they are, after all, threatened with a
life—changing, negative event that’s

liberal arts colleges think of.

What this is, in effect, is a form
of bribery/plea bargaining that is sanc-
tioned by the White Book. In ex-
change for not causing all the hassle
of a Student Body hearing, they get a
much easier pass to another school, or
to an employer. This, in my own
humble opinion, is somewhat duplici-
tous, and against the spirit of what we
consider honor at W&L. When you’re
a student making this stressed choice,
you’re pretty much being pushed into
leaving rather than appealing, because
of the false security that the “with—
drew” provides, in addition to the fear
of “dismissed.” This is not fair, and
does not give the student a fair chance
at considering appealing to the Student
Body, which is a right.

Therefore, I believe that the
White Book ought to be changed to
eliminate this transcript plea bargain-
ing. Either you should be “dismissed”
all the way, or you should get “with-
drawn” on there all the way. Person-
ally, I think it ought to be “dismissed.”
When we say “withdrew,” we’re tell-
ing a half—truth to any colleges or em-
ployers that consider the person af-
terwards; “dismissed” is more honest.
Still, always putting “withdrew” in-
stead would also be better than the
current arrangement. Either one elimi-
nates the unfair pressure towards leav-
ing the school, whether it’s in the face

humiliating and costly, whether

they’re guilty or not. People who are charged
with Honor Violations are panicky from the mo-
ment they’re charged until the final verdict.
They are not in a state of mind where they can
make important decisions or even think particu-
larly clearly.

There is a facet of the Honor System which
is an unfair‘ detriment to the accused, especially
giventhat their state of mind issomething simi-
lar to the above. When a student goes through

brink. It’s an awful time in anyone’s life, and
it’s an awful thing to witness.

And yet, at this very moment, we ask them
to make a critically important decision. “Within
seventy—two hours,” they, have to decide
whether they’re going to leave Washington &
Lee or appeal to a student body hearing. And
herein lies the problem. '

If you decide to leave rather than appeal;
you get a “withdrew” on your transcript, in-

of an honor violation, or after being
found guilty in a Closed Hearing.

Do you agree with me? Ifyou’re an EC mem-
ber, bring it up. If not, officially proposing an
amendment to the White Book when you’re not
on the EC or the White Book Review Committee
means you need a petition with 50 signatures.
That petition is in the cafe, on the left end of the
counter in the front (you know, right next to where
they make the cold sandwiches). Sign it the next
time you walk by.

Heroes walk among us at the University

This Friday will mark my debut in the ﬁlm industry. While its not
quite the starring role I imagined it to be, I’m meeting it with excitement

and enthusiasm. In contrast to the typical image
a movie premier provides, mine will leave some-
thing to be desired. For starters, its not in Holly-
wood. It will be premiered in Pueblo, Colorado.
I’m sure this seems quite unusual, but it is a
ﬁtting place. Being over 100 miles away from the
nearest major city (Denver), Pueblo is the “Home
of Heroes”, the birthplace of four Congressional
Medal of Honor recipients. This medal is the high-
est military award that can be awarded to any
member of the armed forces and my small role is

in a PBS documentary about these four
men.
IN THE IRONS When 1
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘07 was ab°“‘
1r—.m—#— 5 years
old, I

started taking piano lessons from an elderly
woman who lived nearby. Every Thursday after-
noon until I was about 14, I met with her for an
hour. Over the course of these years, I became
close to her and her husband, Bill.

Sometimes, I would have lessons at her
house and when my dad wasn’t working during
the winters, he would take me to lessons and sit
and talk with Mr. Crawford I saw the photographs
of him along with various presidents hung on

the walls in his house, but I never really understood why he got to meet
so many leaders. Slowly the story of his heroism was revealed and I was

amazed.

During WWI, Mr. Crawford served in Italy. After the original scout
was killed, Mr. Crawford took on scouting duty and took out three ma-

, photo courtesy of cmohs.org
HONOR. Respect must be given to recipients of above.

chine gun nests on his own. He talked about bullets going by his head
and between his legs but nonetheless surged ahead and allowed his pla-

toon to advance. Eventually, he was then taken
as a Prisoner of War and forced to march for 52
days over 500 miles during the middle of winter.
He told me many incredible stories of trying to
survive as a prisoner. After returning home, he
became a janitor at the Air Force Academy, going
largely unnoticed for many years.

As I said in the interview for PBS, to me, a hero
is someone who shows strength of character by
being modest, real, and courageous.

In an ironic parallel, we seem to have someone
of the sort right here on campus. While he may
not have a Medal of Honor, I think he does show
an admirable character. After my last article, he
emailed me about his dream.

Because I’m writing this article last minute, I
haven’t gotten his permission to print his name,
so just know that there is a janitor among us who
could teach us something. While working here,
he is continuing his education and raising four
children. The coolest part, in my opinion, is that
only two of his children are his biologically. The
third is adopted and the fourth is a foster child,
the sibling of the third.

While Pueblo may be the “Home of Heroes”,
we should be mindful thateveryday heroes still
walk among us in disguise and treat everyone as

we would treat those more obvious heroes.
As an anonymous quote reminds us, “we should always keep the

door open for the hero who can touch our souls, give us a deeper under-

standing of what is truly important in life, and allow us to gain strength
from the footprints they have left_in our hearts, changing us forever.”

Senator Kerry- 20%

Ring-tum Phi Quick Poll:

“W120 W011 the first presidential debate?”

President Bush- 16%

50 students polled, 27 female, 23 male- Poll has 95% conﬁdence in +/- 5% margin of error

Neither one-64%

 

I

  

 

PAGE 4

I’m a freshman. And Ijust
broke one of the cardinal
rules of editorial writing —
opening with the obvious.
Damn it. I was off to such a
good start.

But as a freshman, please
keep in mind that all of this
that is so old to you is so new
to me, so I am just bubbling
over with the obvious and ap-
parent, and I

classes would cost. The
Newspaper Rule is that every-
thing you do could be in the
newspaper tomorrow; would
you be happy with that? The
Party Rules are:

a). Don’t drink before 5,

b). have $5, an ID and your
phone

will proceed INTROD[jC1NG___ c). Be aware
to share it of your sur-
with you de— MARY CH1LD5‘08 roundings

spite how well

you know everything I will
say. Bear with.

’ I arrived on this campus
with the training wheels of
parents carrying my stuff in,
building, moving and clean-
ing my furniture and Momma
Childs posting the “Mom’s
Rules for College Living”
prominently on my wall. They
read as follows:

1. Bathe Daily

2. Learn $280 worth ev-
ery weekday

3. Wash your hands

4. Get an average of 8
hours of sleep every
night

5. Eat an average of 3
meals a day

6. Work out at least 3
times a week

7. Remember the Party
Rules

8. Remember the News-
paper Rule

And yes, she calculated
how much a day’s worth of

(1). drink one, maybe two
beers, and

e). be home by one, maybe two
o’clock.

These are written up for
me, on hot pink papers,
posted carefully in my room.
Any person that has walked
in my room has stopped, read
them, laughed, and asked for
an explanation.

The funny thing is, these
rules all seemed fairly do—able
when I left home. Ha, ha, eat
an average of three meals a
day? Can do! Bathe Daily? Of
course!

But now that I’m here,
when I miss breakfast and kind
of lunch, and proceed to eat
continuously from four
o’clock on, is that three
meals? Can I really define any
of those as meals? The answer
is, of course, no. ’

And while I still bathe
daily, it’s a battle to get my-
self up to do it.

The working out rule is a
joke. I never took that one se-
riously anyway.

During orientation week,
I noticed that this was a
strange hybrid of a world we

A Oiiiibns 
Frosh reahzes normal standards of

Moniny, OCTOBER 4, 2004:

inhabit, where all
standards of behavior flew
out of the window and were
replaced by an easier—to-foi-
low, rounding—up, It’ll-never-
happen—to—me set of stan-
dards.

Even the basics were chal-
lenged. I mean, when I was

of 
yesterday’s rules and obvious "
VA you up right when they say

trust these fraternity boys.
They seem nice; they pick

they will, and they’re still
there if you show up hours
late.

But overall I feel like I’ve
done a fairly decentjob find-
ing middle ground between
this “Hop in, and I will take

“And it doesn’t seem sketchy to me anymore to
stroll up to a random car driven by a random
kid and go to a place named after dishwashing
aids or silver—medalist ﬁgure skaters. Or even

Hooterville.”

about two years old, the ba-
sic rules were don’t take
candy from strangers, don’t
get into cars with strangers,
and wear your seatbelt.

So day one of orientation,
I hop into the trunk of a SUV
driven by a guy named Dave,
or Rusty, or Pippin (who could
have been a local rapist as far
as I know, I never saw his
face), and I curl up as small as
possible so that all 24 of us
can comfortably, and safely I
might add, fit into the back,
to go to a party where I will
drink things that look and
smellllike candy from a
trashcan.

Morn never even had to
tell me not to consume things
out of trashcans; that one was
kind of a given.

But now, all of this seems
completely normal. And it
doesn’t seem sketchy to me
anymore to stroll up to a ran-
dom car driven by a random
kid and go to a place named
after dishwashing aids or sil-
ver-medalist figure skaters. Or
even Hooterville. Because I

you twenty miles down a
country road that you can
only assume ends in a frater-
nity party” world and Mom’s
Basic Rules for College ‘Liv-
ing. ’ C

I feel like I’ve pretty
much stayed within some
(modified) parameters, and
while I may or may not have
strayed from the Good Idea
Zone once or twice, I think it’s
been solid so far. I come home
quasi—early,

I’m pretty responsible,
and I always have my phone
and ID, and I’m aware of my
surroundings. And that’s
most of the battle.

I feel, on the whole, that
the Honor Code and small
campus take care of a lot of
the rest of the “dangers” and
the other vague and ominous
words that haunted my
“Why—can’t—I-stay—out-later”
arguments of yore.

As we took our first baby
steps into this brave new
word, wide-eyed and speech-

‘less, we left our mommy’s

home-cooked meals behind,

conduct do not a

 

pply at W&L

  
  

  

 

I /700

TRUST. One of the many ﬁne sundries made available by W&L’s frats for
young, impressionable freshmen women.

and now fill the void with
FroYo and Lucky Charms.

And 1 think that’s OK —
at least until that infamous
frosh Fifteen really starts to
catch up.

to Contact Mary Childs,
email childsm@wlu.edu.

whose honor it’s named in.

 

Football— T F aaaaaaantastic.

Phi Delt band— T Best bluegrass I’ve heard in a while.

Katie Abplanalp-T Vive la reine.

  Ups and Downs  

Men’s Soccer Refs- i Court Nexsen got a freaking JUDO move put on him by a Randolph-Macon
defender, and HE got the foul. And that was one of many, many ref injustices in the 1-1 tie.

San Diego Padres—  So close.....the worst heartbreaks are the relationships that get close.
C-School— 4--6 Huntley Hall, Williams School, everyone’s still going to call it the C-School no matter

Debate- T That was FUN to watch. The Prez better get on the ball for the next one.
Californians- T We’re TAKING OVER THE CAMPUS! HAHAHAHAHA!

Cafe Michel— T This hidden Lex jewel serves some of the best “freedom” food around.

Homecoming Banners— 4-» Some were good, but man, some needed a LOT more effort.

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell, and
what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Bluegrass Wed. mornings at Lex Coffee Shop—  Bluegrass + W&L = Scrumtrilescent.

Caley for 2006 EC Rep— T As my campaign starts, I’m like the Ralph Nader of my class’ campus

elections: This year, I’m shooting for 25 votes.

EC— G-+ Insanely busy this week. On second thought, maybe I don’t necessarily WANT the job.

Robert E. Lee- T I say that his greatest connibutions to this country’s legacy came from 1865-1870, right

here on the Hill.

Martha/Mothra Stewar1  Is it justice if a trumped up charge gets a trumped up celebrity? I mean, she
probably did something wrong, but what they essentially did is pull the old “get them on a lesser crime/

technicality” trick, like tax evasion and Al Capone.

Homecoming- T Somehow it seemed a lot more fun than last year. Couldn’t tell you why.
Supreme Court Justice Scalia- ?? “sekual orgies eliminate social tension and ought to be encouraged.”

Poker- 1‘ One of my favorite games has become a pop culture force in recent years. N ow, if only the same

thing could happen to chess, so I’d be less of a nerd.

Co-op/Cafe salsa T That’s damn good stuff.

 

O Since

1897

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS
$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non-sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

Take
Pics
for

as
X450

Are you
opinionated?
Write for the Phi
X4060

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party
Cruise!

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTravel.com
1-800-678-6386

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
  

 

"‘i'-llllil-|*" '

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Rnphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 * 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshoﬂzdassinfonnation.

Halfway " * Lexington and Slaunlon
On I-81 / I-64 at all 205. Raphine. mile: west on
Route 606. Raphine RM //W/r/W a working
farm that oﬂers "U-PICK” opportunities for fmh
fruit when in season.

Tues - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
www m

   

  

 

er 1:/z'imedz'a.arg _ _

    

PAGE 5

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

  

Generals give football fans reason to cheer

Homecoming game leaves home fan excited,
team begins this season with 1-0 ODAC record

STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION

Thanks to stiﬂing defense, the Gen-
erals were able to shut out Randolph
Macon College on Saturday 17-0.

In a game that did not resemble typi-
cal Washington and Lee football, the
Generals played a near perfect game on
their Homecoming Weekend.

Midway through the first quarter the
Generals scored on a 9 year run by Jun-
ior, Michael Lackett. W&L had started
the drive at the Randolph Macon’s 23
yard line, after a Robert Foster intercep-
tion.

Foster made another big play in the
third quarter when he stripped Randolph
Macon’s quarterback allowing Stuart
Swarm to pick up the fumble and return

it 49 yards for the touchdown.

Foster finished the day with a
school record tying five sacks to go
along with his eight tackles. Senior Lloyd
VV1lson added a game high nine tackles
along with and two sacks.

In total, Randolph Macon had only
1 19 yards and were held to -6 yards rush-
ing the ball, which was in large part due
to the Generals recording a school record
10 sacks overall.

While the defense was clearly the
leading light of the game, the Generals
also did well on the other side of the
ball. Lackett ﬁnished up with 1 l carries
and 79 yards while quarterback Greg
T‘weardy added 111 more through the
air.

VV1th the win, the Generals improve
their record to 2-2 overall and 1-0 in the
ODAC.

 

KELLY Bos / G-TUM PHI

BRING IT ON. W&L cheerleaders show an infectious school spirit during Saturday’s Homecoming game.

Gritter reﬂects on baseball season

Atlanta Braves the ‘best franshise in all of sports, ’LosAngeIes Dodgers this year’s ‘dark horse’

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

As the season comes to a close I
often like to look back at the predictions
from the beginning of the year and com-
pare. Though there are always surprises

‘ . to be found, this year has proven to be

more entertaining than usual. Not only
are the awards not working out as
planned, but the playoff picture includes
many teams who, on paper, shouldn’t
be there. Anyways, here are my choices
for the MVP and Cy Young winners fol-
lowed by a look at the teams in the play-
offs.

I American League

MVP — Vladimir Guerrero — While a
case could be made for Ichiro or Tejada,
the fact of the matter is, neither of their
respective teams won. Ichiro, despite
being the best leadoff man in the league
(ever?), scored 20 fewer runs than Vlad
did, and Tejada’s batting average isn’t
high enough to propel him past Guerrero
despite his major league leading 149
RBI’s. Vladimir led his team to the play-
offs and posted ridiculous numbers, .337-
39-l26 (BA-HR-RBI) with 124 runs
scored on the side to lead the AL.

Cy Young — Johan Santana — I hate hate
hate all the talk about Curt Schilling pos-
sibly getting it because he has more

wins. Curt Schilling has ONE MORE
WIN.....just one. Wins often depend
more on your team than anything else
anyway. Just look at Randy Johnson this
year, second in the majors in ERA and
he has 14 losses. Anyways, Santana has
20 wins, led the AL in strikeouts and
ERA, and was the ace of a playoff team.
There’s never been a more obvious Cy
Young winner than Johan Santana.

National League

MVP — Adrian Beltre — Clearly names
like Bonds and Pujols come up as other
good options, but Adrian Beltre had the
largest impact on his team of the three. I
say that bearing in mind the last couple
years during which the Dodgers have
had the pitching but a complete lack of
offense. Beltre gave them more than what
they needed. No one ever expected him
to be a triple crown threat. . ..even before
the 5 years of sucking in the pros. I’m a
firm believer that an MVP often doesn’t
have a great supporting cast, placing
more emphasis on him. Pujols has Rolen,
Edmonds, and to a lesser extent Walker.
Bonds is of course a legitimate pick since
he is the heart and soul of the Giants,
but he seems to affect the lineup too
much. He inﬂates the stats of his fellow
players to decent level and they fade in
the playoffs. Bonds just doesn’t get the
RBI’s because of this. So while I would
completely accept Bonds, Beltre’s stats

are very comparable (.338-48-121) to
Bonds’ (.363-45_—l0l).

Cy Young - Roger Clemens — I wish
there was a font I could put that in that
would make it look unsure. I’m not a
Roger Clemens fan, but I think statisti-
cally he makes the best case this year.
Peavy led the majors in ERA (2.27) but
only had 15 wins and 166 Innings.
Schmidt and Pavano are the other major

“thgi than/dfo/d
in z‘/yep/cg/oﬁr like a true

Atlanta Braves team ”

contenders, their records respectively
17-7 and 18-8. Both had ERA’s compa-
rable to Clemen’s but slightly higher.
Where the separation come as I see it is
Clemen’s 4 losses. 18-4 is an obscene
winning percentage, and he stepped up
with Roy Oswalt and got his team into
the playoffs. You just can’t make much
of a case for anyone over him, so “the
Rocket” (two strokes) gets it.

New York Yankees- once again they’re
stacked and favored in the playoffs, but
the pitching staff (as predicted) has been
shaky. If Orlando Hernandez steps up
they could do well, they certainly have

the offense .... ..gosh I hate them.

Boston Red Sox - Not as convincing to
look at but they’ve been riding a hot
streak and there really isn’t a hole in their
lineup unless Pokey’s playing. The duo
of Schilling and Pedro is reminiscent of
the D’Backs miracle World Series a three
years ago.

Minnesota Twins - They have the pitch-
ing, assuming Santana handles the
playoffs well, but the offense doesn’t
deserve to win a world series. Having
said that, the offenses of the Angels
and Marlins weren’t that impressive
either, and they’re wearing rings instead
of the two previously mentioned teams.

Anaheim Angels — I can’t see them do-
ingmuch in the playoffs, they have a
great offense, but now that offense
doesn’t have Jose Guillen, who ac-
counted for more than 100 RBI’s this
season. The pitching staff lacks the top
notch starter that the other playoff teams
have.

St. Louis Cardinals - They got so lucky
with their pitching staff, Carpenter came
back brilliantly, and Jason Marquis
emerged as a spectacular bottom of the
rotation starter. The staff doesn’t have
playoff experience, though. Unfortu-
nately, beating the Cardinals is much

more about containing the

offense. . good luck.

Atlanta Braves - The best franchise in
all of sports. No matter what losses they
suffer, management and Bobby Cox come
out with a contender. But they should
fold in the playoffs like a true Atlanta
Braves team. They’re solid, and could
very well win the first series, but I don’t
see them getting through two.

Los Angeles Dodgers — They have the
pitching. ...kindof. The starters have
done a fantastic job, but there are no
proven, big names on the roster. The
bullpen is unquestioned and the offense
is solid. They’re a dark horse this year, if
the pitchers do what they did in the regu-
lar season they could be tough in a se-
ries.

Houston Astros — The offense has tons
of veteran experience and a heating up
Jeff Bagwell. The staff has a one two
combo that rivals any other team in these
playoffs and Brad Lidge has done a phe-
nomenal job closing for them. Still, the
Astros led by the killer B’s have never
had much playoff success and they
don’t seem to have the makeup to com-
pete with the Cardinals offense. But the

 

"Tuesdil

afield Hockey g. .,
.atiLiLynchburg~4:3{}lV A

 

Wednesday

' M Soccer
at Emory and Henry--4
° W Soccer vs. Hollins--4:30

 gird -grater‘ own.

For rruara irrrormation,
cnrrmct Jason mine
£3090) 494--£599 3110443

jknnalirasmocotpw-new

s’-7in<::l not new you: can use your degree and
~rr:tuntear' experience to assist. casrarmnrtéea in
ﬁeveiaprvga eeuntrsaa azrzsurid ilia:  Den
this osripertunitgra as hall: in a ﬂame  arecmiiier
and learn how wt;  make a dTa‘fenance iiwéws’

wedmadar. September 29

Home snags: Tatar  seamen
3 we ears.  3:00 am. 7:911! - 9100 
Eircan U. (“summons Cescrunol
Living Fioom  221
Parana corps

 

 Week in 

° Volleyball at

Fnday

Emory Invitat:ional——4:30
' Field Hockey at
Eastern Mennonite--5230

' ’\X?Socce1: at _

Invitatiorialwz '

°MSoccerat

  Saturday

s  Wesleyanellr 
' Volleyball at Emory’ 

'  at Centrewlzﬁi)

Hameden 53'311€Y-11 

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowan——l

 

   
  
  
  
 

Want to write
about sports?

Join us at

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
wvvw.ststrave|.com.

MIKE SEEGER

BENEFIT CONCERT
FOR HEALTHY Foons Coop
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 10
7: 00 P.M.; TICKETS $10

 

LENFEST CENTER
Tickets mrraare ax Heahfky Foods 4'63-6954

  

 

PAGE 6

Generals
dominate
home track

STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION

LEXINGTON, Va. — The Washing-
ton and Lee men’s and women’s cross

country teams were in action on Satur-

day as they hosted the Generals Invita-
tional at the Dick Miller Cross Country

Course. The W&L men ﬁnished first of

three teams, while the women placed sec-
ond of four teams.

For the men, junior Nathan Johnson

(Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County) won
the race with a time of 28:33. Senior Steve
Chambers (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area)
ﬁnished third of 37 runners with a time
of 29:31, while junior Andrew Johnson
(Blairstown, N .J ./Blair Academy) com-
pleted the course in 30: 1 1 to place fourth.
On the women’s side, sophomore Julie

Harris (Richmond, Va./St. Catherines) led

the way with a sixth place ﬁnish (27:24)
out of 28 runners. Sophomore Debra
Kubas (Colchester, Conn./Bacon Acad-
emy) ﬁnished eighth with a time of 27:55,
while junior Ashley Brown (Kingwood,
W.Va./Preston) ﬁnished ninth with a time
of 28: 13.

Washington and Lee returns to ac-
tion on Saturday as it competes in the
Virginia State Championships in
Ha1risonburg,Va., at 10:30 am.

 

MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 20, 2004



Hagerman wins

women ’s

singles

Hagerman moves on to I TA Small
College National Championship

STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION

FREDERICKSBURG, Va. — Senior
Lindsay Hagerman (Wichita Falls,
Texas/I-Iighland Park), of the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s tennis team, cap-
tured the main draw singles champion-
ship for the second consecutive year
at the ITA Southeast Region Champi-
onship hosted by the University of
Mary Washington on Monday after-
noon.

Hagerman, the top—seeded player
in the tournament, knocked off third-
seeded Mona Iyer of Carnegie Mellon,
6- 1, 6-0, in the semifinals before defeat-
ing fellow General, sophomore Kristen
McClung (Charleston, W. Va./Charles-
ton Catholic), 6-1, 6-0, in the champi-
onship match. McClung advanced to
the ﬁnal after defeating second—seeded
Amy Staloch of Carnegie Mellon, 0-6,
6-3, 6-0, in the semifinals.

In the final of the main draw
doubles, Hagerman and senior Lora
Farris (Dallas, Texas/Highland Park)
lost to the duo of Iyer and Staloch, 8-6.

In B-draw singles action, freshman
Catherine Rentschler (Hamilton, Ohio/
Ursuline Academy) was defeated by
Mary Washington’s Emily Brimer, 7-6
(7-5), 6-4, in the semifinals.

In B—draw doubles play, W&L had
two teams advance to the champion-
ship match. Freshman Kelly Will (Holly
Springs, N.C./Cary Academy) and
sophomore Amanda Haines (Eden,
N .C./N .C. Science & Math) will square
off against the freshmen duo of
Rebecca Timmis (Peachtree City, Ga./
McIntosh) and Leah Weston (Colo-
rado Springs, Colo./Air Academy) at
practice on Tuesday.

Hagerman advanced to the ITA
Small College National Championship
to be held on the campus of Florida
Gulf Coast University in Fort Myers,
Fla. from Oct. 14-17.

Soccer ’s scintillating
offense stings wasps

WiItshire’s hat trick
leads women’s
soccer over Emory
and Henry, 8-0

BY JOHN BOVAY
SUPPLEMENTED BY W&L
SPORTS RELEASE

The Lady Generals’ soccer team
took on Emory & Henry in ODAC ac-
tion on Saturday, and proved the
strength of their team with a dominat-
ing 8-0 win. Sophomore forward Anne
VViltshire led the team with three sec-
ond-half goals and an assist. Three of
her teammates scored goals, and the
Washington & Lee defense proved in-
domitable as they refused to allow a
shot on goal.

The game was characterized by
one-sided play, as freshman forward
Shana Oltmans scored twice in the first
fourteen minutes to follow up her two_

 

   

   
   
     
 

 

 
  
   

 _  Lahamxioekeynereatsmmrw

 

Re@onal(I0I3)* I : '~   = goa3ofthegaiIiewithjnst,un_derﬁvenzin~
v ” V, utes remaining to givethe-_Washington

Washington‘ ‘arid {Lee seaii:$r.,Pa1i1"‘:

 

lliresliinan. defender  Karts (V2:- A
: giniaénjeaah. Vairélex)  her  .1

 J  fieid team (32-"1 victory; ‘

Shay (Martinez,ir;§a.1Augu
have both advanced» rs?‘
semiﬁnals of the ‘ITA 
held at Gaucher College. f

McClure jasaempaas, ‘renzwsaemgais 
University School}. anejmeq: David.” ,

   
  
 

 over Washington  sundagar;
temepgi at the W&L ms: ﬁeld. ‘

 

J  

 ?  

. Th5;1Washing:on,and L£~‘é.xnen’s scagzceri
 iayedg its  donhiemverﬁme‘.
 of  and came away i5t%ith'''

, a 1-;1jtie‘ against 0DAC~rivaI;Ranéolph~ .

Magda Colleges on Saturday 
atwatt Figléds  ' V ' 1 ..

 

goals earlier in the week against
Bridgewater. After Oltmans’ second
goal, W&L went on a long dry streak
with many close opportunities. The
Wasps stopped over a dozen straight
shots from the Generals late in the first
half and early in the second half, but
rarely had any opportunities to score.

They managed to hang in the game
despite their short bench until Gener-
als sophomore Sarah Helms‘ assisted
the first goal of the second half, a text-
book pass to VViltshire’s header with
few defenders near the goal. Afew min-
utes later, VViltshire dribbledx around
several Wasps season, as she leads the
team with 9 goals and 21 points. Helms
still leads the team in assists, with 7 for
the year.

The Generals’ overall record im-
proved to 7-2-1, with a 5-1 record in the
ODAC, their lone loss coming against
nationally ranked Virginia Wesleyan.
Their next game is Tuesday, when they
host Guilford (3-7, 2-2 ODAC) on Tues-
day at 4:00. The Wasps record dropped
to 3-6-1 (1-2 ODAC). Generals head
coach Neil Cunningham picked up his
50"‘ win at W&L in only his fourth year
here, posting an impressive .794 win-
ning percentage.

 

v-..,3_:-it¥1_ri;<'1«0I.2) 

.:¢a:e-éxrendaféits 0D3’xCWi111*3F¥8.  . . J
,tcr36 consecutive matclies with far 
of wins on Saturday.aftemoon.; 

    
  
 

Tliewashington anriilsee  (E A

Ger1era.ls.dewne<}  Mennonite
30-14,- 30-95,; 30-22, before: 

A '1 Lynchhmg, 30520, 30.22, 3018. ,   .

   

 

 

EARN HOW YOU CAN LEAD THE 
TO END EDUCATIONAL lNEOUlTY..

Wednesdajg October 6, 7:00 pm * \Williams School 235

Witch alumni guest speaker Claibczrne Taylor, ‘O2

“nun GENERATION MUST mtecn nus ISSUE. 
‘   ’

wwwgteachfnrame rica.m'g

 

Fm: ir1riiz»'£¢£ucr[r £2327 rzrzrderrrir“ rri:r;'rJr§ arm? stirrer irz’frri~:<°.ts. Frail reiéiryr srrrrz’ rlrezrfefr éerrcjjﬁizfs.

 

 

  

PAGE 7

’llIi/li.llll\‘%G-~'l'L??.\<ll)l~ll

RTS

Z

  LIFE

EMILYEDWARDS
Ans & LIFE EDITOR

EMAiI;EDwARosnI@v<IIIII)u
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

RAIN, RAIN GO AWAYl ‘

LOVELY LADIES. Looking like picture-perfect W&L girls even in the rain, Kappa Delta sophomores enjoy the Homecoming football game against Randolph Macon this weekend. from left to ng/Jt:Kathryn
Brennan, Bebe Terrell, Tricia W/illiams, Megan Hunt, Whimey Dickson. Umbrellas have been a “must-have” accessory to colorful sundresses this rainy fall term.

This October, many music ‘greats’ release new albums

BY BLAIR CRUNK
STAFF WRITER

With October upon us, it is important to note three things.
First of all, this means that fall is certainly here. Second,
October will bring my birthday on the 28”’. Perhaps most im-
portantly, October marks a month inwhich the music world will
release arguably a higher quality of studio albums as com-
pared to the summer months.

In my column this week, I will discuss and recommend
four albums, one of which is a must-have for any W&L stu-
dent. In addition to the albums,that I will discuss, there are
three which receive Honorable Mentions and should be noted.
These three albums, with their release dates, include:

Acoustic Syndicate — “Long Way ‘Round” (10/12)
The'Strokes — “Live at Alexandra Palace” (10/12)
Brooks & Dunn — “Greatest Hits, Volume 2” (10/19)

George Strait — 50 Number Ones — This October 5"‘ release
has been in the works from the critical1y—acc1aimed “King
George” for years now. No, that’s not a misprint, either. This
double-disc set will showcase all fifty of Strait’s number one
hits, in addition to one new song — “I Hate Everything,” the
single that is currently racing up the Billboard country charts.
From the twangy “Baby’s Gotten Good at Goodbye,” the tear-
in—my—beer ‘‘All My Ex’s Live in Texas,” the anthem—like
“Heartland,” all the way to “I Can Still Make Cheyenne,”
Strait gives country his best shot at his own all—star team.
Even if you’re not the biggest Strait fan, take a look at the

song lineup on the album, and I guarantee that you’ll be '

surprised. This promises to be the best-selling of Strait’s
career and possibly the highest-grossing country release of
2004.

-R.E.M. — Around the Sun — For the first time since May of
2001, Michael Stipe and the rest of R.E.M. are releasing a
full-1ength_studio album. Scheduled to be released on Octo-
ber 5"‘, “Around the Sun” follows 2001’_s “Reveal” (which
featured singles “Imitation of Life”. and “All the Way to
Reno”) and the 2003 greatest hits release entitled “In Time:
The Best of R.E.M. 1988-2003.” On National Public Radio’s
(NPR) online music show “All Songs Considered,” host’Bob
Boilen along with music reviewers Will Hermes, Tom Moon,
and Meredith Ochs about the most anticipated releases for
fall 2004; this list includes the latest record from R.E.M. Even
though the band has not enjoyed true “rock star success”
since 1992 with the haunting “Automatic for the People” or
perhaps the 1994 release “Monster,” critics remain optimis-
tic that this record will be one to bring R.E.M. back onto the
music scene. A preview listening party to celebrate the re-
lease of “Around the Sun” will take place on October 4”‘ at a
bar in Athens, Georgia, the band’s hometown. If you happen
to be at the University of Georgia that night for some odd
reason, be sure to check it out.

John Mellencamp - Words & Music: John Mellencamp’s
Greatest Hits —_This double—CD set is scheduled for an Oc-
tober 19"‘ release date and features 35 of Cougar’s biggest
hits and two new songs, “Walk Tall” and “Thank You.” These
two new tracks have a “new feel” to them and were co-pro-
duced by Mellencamp and Kenneth “Babyface”iEdmonds.
From the classic “Pink Houses” to the soulful “Dance Na-
ked,” all the way to his 2003 hit “Teardrops Will Fall,”
Mellencamp proves with this record that he can still rock. In
listening to this album, it is interesting to note how
Me11encamp’s music has both changed and matured from his
first single release in 1979 (“I Need A Lover”) all the way to
the present, nearly 25 years later. With this release, the

W&L Bookstore P rese nts..

A weekly featu rs of the Bookstore and the R ing-Turn Phi

This week:

 

for yourself of your favorite baseball ‘Fan.

Iiegula-‘price: $5.00
This week: $19.99

Student Book of the Week

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

Seymour, Indiana native proves that it is possible to come
from a small town and still have the opportunity to make a
name for yourself. In Mellencamp’s words, “Got nothin’
against a big town / Still hayseed enough to say / Look who’s
in the big town.” This album contains a little of both — the
hayseed and the city; and it makes for a fantastic combina-
tion.

Eddie From Ohio — This Is Me — While the previous three
albums are recommended, this particular record is a must-
have for any normal, civilized person. This Virginia-based
“folk-ernative” quartet is scheduled to release their latest al-
bum on October 19”‘ and continue proving why they are “the
best band you’ve never heard of,” according to a fan website.
It may be deceiving, but female Murphy Wells (a Virginia Tech
graduate) is the lead singer of this band, and she teamed up
with JMU graduates Robbie Schaefer, Eddie Hartness and
Michael Clem in 1991 to form Eddie from Ohio. They began
playing covers in neighborhood bars in towns across the Com-
monwealth and in the DC area before 1999 when they finally
caught a break and began playing small concert halls with
entirely original music. Too alternative to be classified as
folk, but too folk to be classified as alternative, Murphy and
her boys have enjoyed a cult—like following for the past five
years and released seven albums altogether. “This Is Me”
promises to be no different than the seven that have pre-
ceded it — a folkishly alternative sound with bluegrass refer-
ences, containing lyrics that will force both smiles and reflec-
tions. This album will remain true to Eddie from Ohio’s roots
and expand upon what the band has already accomplished.
With their tight harmonies and humorous lyrics, Eddie from
Ohio deserves more than a “Yeah, I’ve heard of them.” They
deserve to be in your collection. . .and this is the album to make
that happen.

Looking for Christmas gifts? Try The Book.

For your inner Jacques Cousteau (may he rest in peace),
$1,700,000 will buy you a submarine. Well, sort of. The
Deep Flight Aviator has room for two and handles much like

For as long as I can remember, I have eagerly antici-
pated the arrival of Neiman Marcus’ The Christmas Book.
October could never seem to come soon enough. My oth-
erwise deplorable weekend (Auburn massacred my beloved
boys in orange) was brightened, if only for a nanosecond,
when my mother handed me The Book on Sunday morning
as Iheaded back to Lexington.

For those of you not familiar with The

a ﬁghter jet. You and your “copilot” can reach depths of
1500 feet, and you needn’t worry about the marine life. The

engines generate zero pollution and very little noise. ,
For those of you blacktop maniacs with a need for

speed (like myself), pages 16 and 17 feature a special edition
Maserati Quattroporte. Personally, I wouldrather have last
year’s BMW 645i that they offered, but,
alas. The 2005 Quattroporte goes from

Book, it is a delightful collection of both
affordable -and ridiculously priced gar-
ments and gadgets perfectly suited for him
and her. This year’s Christmas book does
not disappoint.

For those of you who are tired of driv-
ing to Lexington Lanes, you can have your
very own 5000 square foot bowling alley
complete with four regulation lanes, 36 pre-

“For those of you who are
tired of driving to
Lexington Lanes, you can
' have your Very own 5000
square foot bowling
al_ley...for $1,450,000”

0-60 in 5.1 seconds and has a top speed
of 170mph. If you choose to take ad-
vantage of this offer, you can have your
very own nameplate on the side of this
Italian road monster. The least expen-
sive of our exotic quartet, Quattroporte
can be yours for $125,000.

And ﬁnally, for you plebeians,
The Book offers six (count ‘em, SIX)

mium balls, glow-in-the-dark pins, and

pages of gifts under $50. From darling

With baseball playoffs starting this week, this is the perfect
book to celebrate America's pastime and it's most storied rivalry
— Yankees vs. Red Sox. As the author tells the rich story of one
gameat Fenway Park, he introduces us to a host of personalities
in and around the game and gives us a humanized look at baseball
from rarely seen perspectives. Described as “vivid” and “almost

cinematic,” this well-written account could be the perfect gift

plasma TVs. His and hers bowling shoes

$1,450,000.

are also included. The package is very reasonably priced at

For the traveler in you, Neiman Marcus and Zeppelin
have teamed up to offer the Zeppelin NT airship. This ain’t
your momma’s Hindenburg. This airship can achieve a top

Kate Spade keychains and pocket mir-
rors to electronic dog ID tags and golﬁng gift sets, there is
something for everyone.

And, although it is only October, there is no reason not
to be in the Christmas spirit. I mean, my lovely Woods
Creek apartment is ready for Thanksgiving with a three—foot

speed of 70 knots, has a ﬂight duration of 24 hours, and can
accommodate you and 14 of your closest friends. Your one-
of—a-kind airship is even more reasonably priced at
$10,000,000.

tall inﬂatable turkey!
If it hasn’t already arrived in your mailbox, The Book
can be viewed online at www.neimanmarcus.com

 

 

 

  
 

int: Rt\tG~'rLwr Pin

   

EMILYEDWARDS

AKIS&LlPEEDI’IOR
mm wm
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Frat bands give hope and direction during the college years

*_ POTATO MAN
MARSHAIL RULE

 

Homecoming Weekend has come and gone,
but the memories will always be in my heart.
Of course, there is thejoy of seeing our gradu-
ated friends come back and relive the “best
four years of their lives.” There are the cock-
tail parties and drinking champagne after mid-
night on the balcony. There is the opportu-
nity to cure Saturday morning’s hangover with
a gin bucket before the football game.

But by far the most enjoyable part of the
weekend is the countless frat band parties.
There is really nothing like frat bands in the
world.

Unlike real bands, frat bands play, not for
the cash or the love of the music, but for free
Natty Light. Between songs they yell for more
beer and everyone cheers. Am I the only per-
son that finds this funny? I mean here are a
hundred or so people packed into a basement
drinking and nobody thinks twice about it, yet
when some thirty something bass player chugs
a beer on stage the place goes crazy.

The whole time they are “performing”
(and I use quotation marks because you can

- hardly call frat concerts performances) they’re

asking themselves where they went wrong in
high school. I don’t think playing for 50 guys
with their collar ﬂipped up, 50 girls wearing
pearls, and four VMI cadets standing in the
back corner attempting to find a girl that has a
thing for men in uniform, is what these bands
had in mind when they formed their band.
They imagined a crew to carry all of their
equipment; instead they get the sound midget.

Frat bands live a lifestyle that few people

Q Darrin you, John Kerry! How DARE you forget
to list Poland among our allies?! !

 

Q Will someone please give Bush a couple Xanax
before the next debate?

Q For my birthday I would like newly single Meg
O’Brien and S.B. Northen. Thank you.

Q Saying youlll only volunteer for a community
service if your best friend will do it with you is sooo
freshman-like.

Q “I don’t do community service” is not an ac-
ceptable response when someone asks if you’d like
to sign up for a service project.

Q There are three types of shots: The kind the
doctor gives you, the kind a gangster gives you,
and the kind a frat guy gives you.

RBIN BI_A(.KFORD/ t e
OPEN DOORS. New shoestore opens in old photoshop on Main Street.

TAKE ME HOME TONIGI{I'.

could keep up with. Driving all day to play in
a muggy basement with a hundred kids who
are chanting “Ace of Base, Ace of Base” is
not for everyone. As Fiji showed us last year
when they got Cory Morrow to play, even fa-
mous singers can’t keep up with the frat band
life. Too much drinking before, during, and
after the show doesn’t help the old vocal
cords. And we are much more forgiving to
frat bands. We expect them to suck. So if
they get wasted and are horrible no one really
cares. But if a real band gets screws up and

BY ELYSE MOODY
STAFF WRITER

Pumpkinseeds owner opens   shoestore downtown

You probably don’t re-
member visiting a photog-
raphy store on Main Street.
The windows were painted
black, and, to be honest,
the store was pretty unin-
viting.

After a summer of hard
work, Pumpkinseeds owner
Siobhan Lomax has converted
this intimate space into ex-
actly what Lexington needs:
a ridiculously cute shoe
store. A

Molly Gillbride Shoes
offers a wide selection ‘of
shoes and accessories
with thoughtful, distinc-
tive details for every oc-
casion and taste imagin-
able.

The design of the bou-
tique reﬂects the style of its
apparel—quirky, eclectic,
and fun. With a wall of re-
cently-restored windows
providing a ton of natural
light, the interior of the store
seems a lot larger than it ac-
tually is. '

Muted purple tones
cover the walls, trimmed with

 

 

rig-tum 1

Q Stupid freshman quote of the week: “Yea, even
though she doesn’t drink she’ll be a really cool
date. She told me the other day, ‘You'll get so
drunk that l’ll just get drunk off you.’ I mean, isn’t
that sweet?”

Q To hear more dumb freshmen quotes in person,
hang out at the commons around 1:00am any week-
night. '

Q Has anyone noticed how stacked the guy’s
swim team is this year?

Q Happy Birthday to our favorite NRA chairman
Charlton Heston who turns 80 today. You can go
shoot some skeet in honor or reﬂect upon the fact
that he’s one year closer to having the gun pried
out of his cold, dead fingers.

Q Ohio: the state Mr. Grover WISHES he was
from.  '

Q Quick Hits and Potato Man are the two best
things to happen to the Ring-tum Phi.

Q Corbin! is the new Jeb! However, he is not the
new Brett, but don’t tell him that.

Q Freshmen men are never permitted to lick, touch,
or otherwise contact any senior against his will.

Q Turtles are my second favorite animals, behind
giraffes, but my friend likes elephants. LOSER!

Frat bands experience it all, from the free, oftentimes tasteless beer to th muggy
basements and the quintessential random hookup. Isn’t that what college is all about?

sucks, riots will ensue.

All frat bands play roughly the same
songs. They always include Sweet Home Ala-
bama for the southerners and wannabe
southerners like me. And it’s never a frat con-
cert without Friends in Low Places and Fam-
ily Tradition. And unlike real bands, frat
bands let you request songs. They’ll play
basically any song just because the guy in
the front wearing Aviator glasses is scream-
ing, “Play Jessie’s girl. Please play Jessie’s
girl.” If they don’t know the song being re-

quested they’ll let us sing it for them. This is.

the most beautiful idea ever. These so called
musicians get us to do their job for them, and
instead of getting yelled at by a boss, people
think they are the best band ever for it. ‘

By far the best thing about frat bands is
the hot girl lead singer. _You know the one;
she’s been staring at you all night. You’re
pretty sure she wants you, so you avoid danc-
ing with other girls just so she doesn’t get the
wrong idea. You tell all your friends there is a
70 percent chance of hooking up with her. They
laugh now but you know the truth. So after the
show you go up to the stage to start up a con-
versation. Next thing you know she introduces
you to the drummer named Rusty Drumsticks,
a.k.a. her boyfriend. You go home rejected and
sad, until you remember you just got the new
Maxim under your mattress.

Think about all the things these frat bands
get to see. They get a front row seat to watch-
ing one night stands develop. They watch as a
freshman guy finally gets the courage up to
start dancing with the hot little number from
South Carolina and begins to make his move
just as the upperclassman comes in to swoop
her away to a frat bed with promises of hard
liquor and a night she will never forget. In-
stead she gets a shot of Aristocrat and a life-
time of regret.

Frat bands give people like me hope. They
show us that just because we have no idea what
we are going to do when we graduate and have
no direction in life, we can always fall back on
rocking out in a frat basement all night. All we
have to do is learn a few 80s songs on the key-
board and we’re set for life. Hundreds of drunk
kids that love you, free Natty Light, and my
own personal sound midget? Sounds like the
life to me.

dark wood and funky de-
tails—a chandelier is. made
out of straw hats. Unusual
details like this give the
store and the shoes that it
sells a stylish, unique
edge.

Lomax said that they
would be increasing their in-
ventory dramatically over
the next few weeks, but an
ample selection is already
available.

Shoes by designers like
Chinese Laundry, BCBGirls,
Jeffrey Campbell, and JC
range from funky ﬂats to so-
phisticated heels priced from
$30—$200.

Shoes! by Cynthia
Rowley and British de-
signer Raffi will soon be
added to the collection.
Also, jewelry by Elizabeth
Wells and purses by Ply
complement the selection of
shoes with their delicate
details and hip, organic de-
signs.

Molly Gillbride Shoes
is located on Main Street

next to Pumpkinseeds and Send to
is open Tuesday through .
Saturday, 11:00 AM to 5:00 edwax-dse@w]u,edu,

PM.

Your A&L
Editor asks,
“What would
you like to
see in Life?”

Email your pithy
suggestions to

edwardsem@Wlu.edu

disclaimer: please do not

Q Earl Edwards, we love you, we are sorry you
get all of ourArts & Life Editor’s e-mails. Will you
please come fix our computers.

Q Yay! Lexington ﬁnaﬂy has a swank shoe store.
Why are we just getting one?

Q Congratulations to the football team for win-
ning the homecoming game 17-0.

Q There were nine married undergrad couples in
1979. There are none that we know of in 2004.

Q Prank Calls: Good Idea- some random ﬁeshman’s
dorm phone; Bad Idea- the posted sober driver’s
cell phone; Even Worse Idea- calling that sober
driver again 20 minutes later and asking for a ride.

Q Anybody else laugh when they saw that “west
beirut” was playing in the commons?

Q For all you hippies out there, Janis Jopin died
of a drug overdose on this day in 1970. I wonder if
she got her Mercedes-Benz.

Q I really like to shop. I wish Lexington had a
mall so I didn’t have to buy so many things over
the intemet.

Q Strategic planning is in full swing. I can’t wait
to see how the administration plans to further
distroy this place.

Q Don Pablo’s salsa is actually pretty good. Snaps
to the coop.

Q I like nice people.

Q McDonald’s is not open 24 hours a day. How
sad. i

Q It’s good to reﬂect. It’s also good to converge.
First you converge, then you reﬂect.

Q Irony of the week: College Republicans, known
for supporting the theory of small government, have
a President, an Executive Director, and a Chairman.

Q College Republicans beware, J eb Brooks is ac-
tually a mole for the Young Democrats.

Q Citing his recent conversioh, Jeb requested to be
removed from the Young Democrats’ e-mail list and is
upset that his liberal FRIENDS won’t allow him to be

true to himself. ~
Q The EC Room had the ugliest curtains in the
1980s. What a surprise.

Q One line Quick Hits are the hardest to write.

Q As usual, please e—mail your anonymous Quick
Hits to phi@wlu.edu. Please. It makes your Arts
& Life editor’s Sunday afternoon very enjoyable.

 

<4

  

THE

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDIT()R—IN-CHIEF

In a meeting with Greek Presidents Friday after-
noon, President Burish and Dean Watkins expressed
concern about the prevalence of sexual assault on Wash-
ington and Lee’s campus. ,

“Sexual assault is a serious issue that we will not
ignore or address with anything less than determined
resolve,” Burish said.

A “I was really impressed with the manner in
which they approached us,” said Celia Landgren,
president of Kappa Delta. “They were in no way
trying to come down on the Greek system. They
in no way said you are part of the problem.”

The IFC and Panhel agreed to lead initia-
tives against sexual assault on campus. Adminis-

 p y The student voice of Washington and M University time 7897
Presidents hold emergency meeting about alleged abuse

trators called the meeting as, “an attempt to stop
it right now, at the beginning of the school year,”
said Tim Kolly, Interim Director of
Communicationsand External
Relations.

Burish and Watkins met
with Greek leaders first because,
“Fraternity and sorority leadership
are leaders of 75 to 80 percent of
our student population,” Watkins

They were in no way trying
to come down on the Greek
system. They in no way
said you are part of the

“I don’t think the administration in any way
wants to blame Greek organizations for this problem,
but rather encourage them to help ﬁnd solutions for it,”
said Susan Somers, president of Pi
Beta Phi. -

“We didn’t go in there with a
particular agenda," Watkins said. “It
was a meeting where we were say-
ing we want this to be of concern
and we want you to help us.”

said. “We wanted to go to them problem‘ Watkins said that the Stu-
to say you are the leaders in these CELIA LANDGREN dent Faculty Hearing Board has
areas and we want your help.” PREHDENT OI,-KAPPA DELI/I not found anyone guilty of sexual

The meeting was called on ' assault in her time at Washington

short notice because, “if you’re
really concerned and get reports...you don’t wait
for a regular meeting,” Kolly said.

Popular Chinese restaurant falls
short on routine health inspection

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—IN—CI-IIEF

“There were live baby roaches crawling on
the walls in the kitchen.”

The Department of Health’s Inspection Re-
port recorded these observations after a routine
inspection of Hunan Garden.

This first inspection, dating back to June 18,
2004, listed eleven critical and six non—critical health
violations.

' Critical violations pose a direct or immediate

threat to the safety of the food being served. Non
critical violations represent a failure of cleaning or
maintenance.

When Health Department ofﬁcials returned
to Hunan’s on July 13, they listed two critical and
four non—critical health violations.

Hunan Garden’s manager said everything has
been ﬁxed. He also said that the Health Depart-
ment has not returned for any more inspections
since its July 13th inspection.

Hunan Garden has been a popular student

destination for years. Some Greek Organizations
even use the venue for social gatherings.

“It’s disgusting,” said Kelly Jo Larsen, ’05,
“it very much grossed me out. I will not be visiting
Hunan Garden any time soon.”

Larsen received the Health Department’s in-
spection report about Hunan Garden’s violations
through an email forwarded to her by fellow Wash-
ington and Lee student Joseph Franzen.

The Virginia Department of Health’s website
cautions that, “An inspection conducted on any
given day may not be representative of the overall,
long-terrn cleanliness of an establishment. Also, at
the time of the inspection violations are recorded
but are often corrected on—the—spot prior to the in-
spectqr leaving the establishment.”

“The mechanical dishmachine was not sani-
tizing. The final rinse must reach a minimum of l80°F
in the ﬁnal rinse,” and “Observed the use of gar-
bage bags to store food in the walk-in units,” were
the remaining critical violations observed by the
Department of Health

Flu Vaccine shortage prompts rationing

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR—[N—CHIEF

Because the national sup-
ply of influenza vaccine has been
cut in half this year, the Center
for Disease Control is-
sued recommendations
for distribution.

According to Dr.
Jane Horton in the Health
Center, Washington and
Lee received about half
of its vaccine order. The
Health Center will pro-
vide vaccinations to members of
the University community who
fall into the priority groups.

After Washington and

Lee’s priority groups are vacci-
nated, Dr. Horton plans on tum-
ing the University’s extra vacci-
nations over to the Lexington
community, which does not have
vaccinations. “We will work with

 

people in the community about

* who else needs it,” she said.

In the past, Washington

and Lee has not achieved better

than a 25% immunization rate.
The University has never
achieved “herd protection,”
Horton said.

While it is likely that there
will be more ﬂu illness this sea-
son because students on
this campus, “live, work
and study together,”
Horton said, “it won’t be
especially ba .”

Horton recommends
washing hands frequently
and using hand sanitizer
so that germs are not
spread to keyboards and door-
knobs.

“I would buy stock in
Purell if I were you,” Horton said.

“'3 _ 
SAHAR KAMILI THE RING -TL/‘M PHI

LIPTING A LEG FOR SERVICE. As part of the Fall Service Challenge, Addy Ng Volunteers with the SPCA by taking
this pup for a walk. Over one hundred ﬁfty students participated in the Nabors sponsored event.

and Lee. Watkins served two years
asDeanofFreshmenandisinhersecondyearasDean
of Students.

P1 1

  

VOLUME CVlI.,No. 11
MONDAY, Ocrosnr 11,2004

Brent Beshore, president of Lambda Chi Alpha,
said that the incidence of sexual assault was presented,
“very vaguely” at the meeting. A

According to Beshorc, everyone at the meeting
was, ‘—‘in agreement that that has no place on campus
and shouldn’t happen ever,” he said.

“The fratemity leadership on campus is grateful
that the University trusts its leaders enough to share
its concerns and confront the problem head on,” said
Thomas Pickering, IFC President.

“I was excited to hear the‘IFC offer up the sug-
gestion of working along with Panhel,” Landgnen said.

The IFC and Panhellenic Council have commit-
ted to presenting a report making recommendations by

November 8”‘. Individual presidents will talk to their

Greek chapters about possible solutions and convene
again to write up their report.

 

I BY KATHERINE SHELL
' ASST. NEWS EDITOR

This week, the W&L Law School celebrated
Coming Out Week sponsored by GayLaw. Na-
tional Coming Out Day falls on October 1 1 in cel-
ebration of the 1987 March on Washington for
Lesbian and Gay Rights. Events included pre-
sentations during the week, and a drag show last
Friday night.

“We’ve done Coming Out Week stuff this
week so as to avoid the mass exodus produced
by fall break,” says Tammy Graham Law ‘O6, a
Tri—Executive Chair for GayLaw.

Monday night, GayLaw sponsored speak-
ers Jill Lowelland Patricia Jones, who discussed
-their study of Transgender and Bisexual issues
in the Law.

On Wednesday, students were invited to a
presentation given by Project Horizon on domes-
tic violence from a same-sex perspective, as well
as a ﬁlm presentation later in the evening of

ﬁnches patches: a non-scripted conversation

/Drag show features W&L students

GayLaw sponsors Coming Out Week

\

about a man’s lifetime.” . .

Thursday night, GayLaw presented the film
“Juggling Genders” with a discussion following
led by Professor Theresa Braunschneider, As-
sistant Professor of English at W&L.

The Drag Show Friday night was held on
the Law School Lawn.

GayLaw’s Coming Out Week attempted to
make the W&L community more aware about Gay,
Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender issues. Gra-
ham said, “As for coming out, I seriously doubt
we’ll have any of that.”

The theme for Coming Out Day 2004 is
“Come Out. Speak Out. Vote.”

Students interested in learning more about
GayLaw should contact Graham at
graharnt@wlu.edu. Those interested in becom-
ing part of an undergraduate organization dedi-
cated to increasing awareness of Gay, Lesbian
and Bisexual issues on campus should contact
the Gay Straight Alliance at gsa@wlu.edu.
—Photos by Sahar Kamali of the Ring—tum Phy

Nabors brings out over one hundred ﬁfty
student Volunteers for Fall Service Challenge

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Over 150 student volunteers ﬂooded
Rockbridge County last Saturday for Nabors Ser-
vice League’s second annual Fall Service Challenge.

Nabors collaborated with Habitat for Human-
ity for the first time this year, a move that brings
more funding and projects to the table for future
Challenges, according to co-chair Sonia Siu.

Volunteers ranked 17
service projects by order of
preference when signing up
for the Challenge. Among the
more popular are apple-pick-
ing for the needy and a House
Mountain clean-up, said Siu.
Other projects include
yardwork in Glasgow, Habitat
construction, and a road race
benefiting the Rockbridge

. Area Transportation System.

Another group visited
the Manor at Natural Bridge, a rest home, to paint
their dining rooms. The group previously painted
the facility’s day room. According to charge nurse
Angela Salinas, the Manor is always eager to wel-
come N abors back. i

The larger projects weren’t more important
than the smaller ones. Groups with only a few stu-
dents made just as much of an impact.

“It’s so hard to get someone to help you,"
said one woman whose windows need repairing

“In its second year, Fall Service
Challenge continues to grow, and
I look forward to seeing so many
people do community service for

the greater Lexington area.”
NOBLE STAFFORD
NABORS CO-CHAIR

before winter. .

Volunteers congregated at a lunch on
Cannan’s Green between their projects, where they
received a commemorative water bottle for their ef-
forts. -
Siu believes the Challenge is gathering an
increasing following in the university community.
“This year we’re actually looking at a bigger com-
mitment,” she said, noting, “Last year about 140
[people] signed up but about 90 came.”

Siu’s co-chair Noble
Stafford agreed that this
year’s response was stronger.
“We attribute this to the com-
bination of Habitat for Hu-
manity and Nabors Service
League for one day of ser-
vice.”

According to Siu,
Nabors will move outward if
the Challenge continues to
grow. “The issue that we have
is that Lexington is, after all, a
pretty small community, so there are only so many
projects,” said Siu. “So I don’t know how many
more people we can accommodate, but we’re hop-
ing it becomes a more. . .well—known day in the year,
and that more people will consider doing it, and,
once they sign up for it, truly commit to doing it."

“In its second year, Fall Service Challenge
continues to grow, and I look forward to seeing so
many people do community service for the greater
Lexington area,” said Stafford.

 

  

  tEYE3t.iRn' Limztm
‘u.-‘\~.“~;Hit\l‘t§ TON  LEE UNNERSM
: "“'V-"-‘.Tr‘9l\= :-.m_ T3/.\'z*,_I_=,‘()

OCT 1 2 20%
PAGE 2

m

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER

“Don’t be alarmed by si-
rens going off and emergency ve-
hicles corning to VMI.”

That was the warning is-
sued to the community from a
VMI press release on Sept. 30.
But it’s hard for an outsider not
to feela little alarmed upon see-
ing Lexington’s most martial in-
stitution in an apparent state of
emergency.

Every student, faculty and
staff member at the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute was assembled on
the Parade Ground last Tuesday.
The large ﬁeld was ﬂanked by
emergency vehicles— four police
cars, two fire trucks, and two am-
bulances to be exact.

Have we been attacked by
terrorists? Has George W. Bush
come for a secret visit and been
shot?

Not exactly, said Stewart D.
Maclnnis, Associate Director of
Communications and Marketing
at VMI. The events of last Tues-
day morning were part of a new
state-mandated test designed to
assess the ability of all state agencies to respond
to emergencies. According to Maclnnis, while the
mandated drill wasn’t speciﬁcally for terrorist ac-
tivities, the mandate “grew out of the heightened
awareness of terrorism.”

From afar, the ﬁeld seemed to bristle with ca-
dets at attention.. But a closer looks proved other-
wise. Blue frisbees and brown footballs soared
above the crowd. Cadets darting about like kids at
recess. Some stretched out on the ground with their
hands under their heads, like Parisians in a public
park on a holiday.

While cadets huddled in the middle of the

Relax, VMI state of emergency just a drill

 

News

"rii:l‘iiu"r'n?~.il}i«3

ﬁeld, staff members lounged on the edges of the
lawn; Many brought lawn chairs, blankets, and hot
beverages and are chatting and laughing. This is a
crowd one might expect to see at a high school
football game instead of a place where an ambu-
lance with all its doors open appears ready for ac-
tion on the lawn before them.

Despite the emergency vehicles and air of
tension they created, the cadets, faculty, and staff
were relaxed. This was no emergency— it’s just an
elaborate drill.

While the cadets looked happy enough, not
all of them were pleased about the drill. Many of

Phi Q & A: Margaret Wilkins
Freshman EC Representative gives her take on honor

believe that every student is able to trust one another because of the Honor
System. I wanted to be a part of upholding this fundamental facet of our

BY WHITNEY DUFFEY

STAFF WRITER

school.

THE RING-M PHI
VEEMEE ALERT. Don’t worry everyone, the Keydets are ready to protect us if terrorists strike our conservative stronghold.

ASHLEY METZLOF

them were upset because the drill took up pre-
cious break time they normally have in the mom-
mg.

While the theme of Tuesday’s drill was a
gas leak instead of a terrorist attack, the same ac-
tions could be applied to a terrorism situation,
Maclnnis said. According to him, “The point was
to respond.” p

And respond they did. The exercise was ex-
pected to take an hour and a half, but the exercise

' took only thirty minutes. And as the evacuated

dining staff laid out lunch on the lawn, the emer-
gency drill wound down into a summery picnic.

W: Can you give me part of what your basic platform was?

The Executive Committee - they not only act as the student govem-
ment here at W&L, allocating funds to student organizations and managing
the Student Activity Fee, but also hold the responsibility of administering the
Honor System, serving as those students to whom an HV can be reported
and as the renders of a guilty or innocent verdict. They seem distant from the
student body, but in reality their decisions shape the daily life of the average
W&L student.

This is why it is important for the student body to be aware of and to
comprehend the workings of this body and to be familiar with their represen-
tatives. This belief prompted an interview with the newly elected Freshman
EC representative, Margaret Elkins, about her carn— '
paign, her current activities within the EC, and her
overall W&L experience. Here are some excerpts
from our conversation:

VVHITNEYZ So, just a little bit about your back-
ground before you carne to W&L: what’s your home-
town? What was your high school like - big or small,
public or private?

MARGARET: Houston, Texas. I went to a rela-
tively small, l28 in my graduating class, private high
school.

W: And what kinds of leadership roles did
you have in high school?

M: I was involved in student government,
was co-chair of the Chapel Guild, a spiritual club
that organized weekly non-denominational chapel
services, and was a yearbook editor.

W: Why did you choose to come to W&L?

M: I fell in love with W&L the moment I stepped onto the campus.
Every single student that I saw seemed so genuinely happy to be here, and
everyone was so welcoming and friendly. I knew that I wanted to go to a small
school where I would hopefully be able to meet all of my classmates and
attend small classes. After seeing Lexington, I loved the small, college-town
environment! And, as everyone knows, it is most definitely academically
rigorous, while at the same time having a lively and exciting social scene.

W: So, as far as your campaign, what made you decide to run for the
position of EC Representative versus Class President or SJ C Representative?

M: I honestly believe that honor is the foundation for every single
aspect of W&L. From inside the classroom to parties on the weekends, I

“I think that truly being a
representative for one’s
class means getting to know
people so that you are able
to represent their opinions.”
MARGARET ELKINS
FRESHMEN EC REPRESENTATIVE

M: [From her official platform]  . .I will be the classmate that you
come to if you suspect dishonorable behavior among other persons in our
community. I will be present at the Executive Committee Hearings, and guar-
antee that I will be unquestionably fair and impartial in all of the decisions
that .1 make. Honor deﬁnes the character of our school, and I give you my
word that my objective will always be one of upholding honor. In addition
to overseeing the Honor System, I will also be the face that you can ap-
proach with questions, opinions and complaints that need to be voiced to
the Executive Committee. As your advocate, I assure you that I will be
absolutely trustworthy in keeping things appropriately conﬁdential. I will
publicize what is going on and report back to
y’all the important happenings and the progress
being made.”

W: So, in your campaign, what do think
was your most effective tool?

M: I think that truly being a representative
for one’s class means getting to know people so
that you are able to represent their opinions. I
think my most effective campaign tool was intro-
ducing and talking to people that I had never
met.

- W: Well, it obviously worked because you
won! In spite of your victory, would you have
campaigned any differently in hindsight?

M: No, I honestly think that I campaigned
to the best of my ability.

W: Thus far, what have you and the other EC members been up to?

M: On Monday and Tuesday of this past week, I spent many hours in
Budget Hearings. In addition, we have weekly meetings on Mondays. I
actually just got back from doing Community Service with other EC.mem-
bers.

W: So in conclusion, what do you expect your role to be in the orga-
nization?

M: I think that my role on the EC will be to bring in the freshman
viewpoint to all situations. I, along with the rest of the class of 2008, am still
a new student at W&L and am still learning new things every day. I will
bring this perspective to the table. In addition, every class has its own
personality. I believe I will be able to represent the interests and concerns
of the freshmen.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

McPherson focuses
on male behavior

BY MICHAEL PATTERSON
STAFF WRITER

A former NFL player, Don McPherson, came
to campus last Thursday to speak on violence
against women. Several W&L organizations col-
laborated to sponsor his presentation in the Com-
mons Theatre, entitled “You Throw Like a Girl,”
focused on stimulating discussion among men,
rather than using scare tactics or other preventa-
tive approaches. .«

McPherson’s speech on Thursday addressed
a broad range of topics. He spoke about racism,
alcoholism, drugs, and gender stereotypes, ﬁnd-
ing ways to tie all these issues together with the
problem of domestic violence. McPherson talked
about his own personal experiences with alcohol-
ism and drugs, and how they helped them to deal
with difﬁcult issues like violence against women.
He stressed the need to open up the discussion of
these concerns before it becomes too late. “We
wait for bad things to happen before we start to
address the problem,” he said. McPherson even
gave out his personal email address,
DGMAC9@aol.com, and encouraged students to
send him comments and questions about any is-
sues related to domestic violence.

McPherson also brought to light society’s
dangerous view of acceptable male behavior. He
said, “You know why we say ‘boys are just being
boys?’ Because they’re doing something stupid
and we don’t want to call them on it.” He wants
men to change their attitudes toward all aspects of
life, not just women.

Despite some armoying technical difﬁculties
at the beginning of his speech, McPherson kept
tlie.large crowd in the Commons Theatre engaged
throughout the presentation. He continually called
on audience members to add to the discussion,
and localized many of the issues in his speech to
the W&L campus. He also used humorous anec-
dotes effectively I
to introduce un-
comfortable is-
sues. The audi-
ence roared with
laughter one sec-
ond and was
dead silent the
next, as
McPherson ex-
plained the onii—
nous conse-
quences of the
situations we of-
ten overlook or
find funny.

McPherson
was an All American Quarterback at Syracuse Uni-
versity, and went on to play professional football
for the Philadelphia Eagles and the Houston Oilers.
He has been active in community service since his
days at Syracuse, where he gave speeches to local
high school students about the dangers of drink-
ing and driving. Since his retirement from profes-
sional football in 1994, McPherson has devoted
his time to several community service organizations.
He is the International Chairman of Athletes Help-
ing Athletes, the co—director of Athletes in Service
to America, and is currently the Executive Director
of the Sports Leadership Institute at Adelphi Uni-
versity.

McPherson has appeared on N i ghtline, Court
TV, MSNBC, Fox News, and the Oprah Winfrey
show to discuss a variety of issues like domestic.
violence, racism, and the role of professional ath-
letes in society. For the past several months, he
has been traveling to Universities around the coun-
try to speak about domestic violence.

McPherson was brought to campus in part
by a new student organization called One in Four.

-This all—male group of about twenty W&L students
‘was recognized by the EC this fall. According to
One in Four member Lucas Gredell, the group is
dedicated to helping men talk to other men about
changing harmful attitudes towards women. They
are hoping to schedule more presentations about
violence against women in November.

Project Horizon, SAMS, and the Ofﬁce of
Health Promotion also helped sponsor the event.

 

1.s\\\B-T5 "°"° ‘ﬁller
.9

   

<I>(D€I)(I>d><I><I>¢><I><l><I>(l><I><I><I)(DCDfD€I><l><I>d>d>(I>

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststrave|.com.

Spring Break 2005

 

8
EMBROIDERY
464-9042 .
637 Waddeﬂ St.
Lexington Va.

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity,Party

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica

Panama City & Daytona $159

Cruise!

the news section!

Write for

  e-mail

   m Jrrays@wlu-.-edu   

From $459

MAKE YOUR OWN HOURS
All you do is sell the Hawaiian Tropic Break 2005 Travel
Program Represent an American Express “Student Travel"

Company Guaranteed Highest Commission, Free Trips & Great for

www.Spring BreakTravel.com
1-800-678-6386

Resume Your pay equals your efforts AMERICAN STUDENT
Vacations 1-800-336-2260 www.grnericanstiideminfg

 

4

 

A MoNDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

5

"

SiifAi“E!iiPED1ToRrAL

Administration must crack down

on sexual assault

As Dean Watkins said in W&L’s
press release, a sexual assault is a viola-
tion of human rights. Arecent meeting of
officials (including the Dean of Students,
the University President, IFC and Panhel
reps, and several Greek presidents) sought
solutions to what has obviously become a
signiﬁcant issue on the W&L campus.

In the press release, Panhellenic Presi=
dent Mary Jacob Rankin acknowledged
sexual assault as a “very real and important
situation that the W&L campus cannot and

‘ will not tolerate.” Although suggestions
have been made to correct the problem
by learning from programs established at
other schools and supporting other initia-
tives like One in Four and education pro-
grams, we believe that decisive and imme-
diate action would not be out of place.

The simple fact is that when something
as serious and as widespread as sexual as-
sault becomes a problem, speciﬁc measures
must.be taken. No one should question,
given the frequency of allegations that
we’ve seen thus far, that sexual assault has
become a serious problem on the W&L
campus.

Thus, we would like to see some mean-
ingful action taken immediately on this mat-
ter. .While education, Day of Dialogue, and
so forth have their place, they neither im-
mediately prevent nor deter sexual assault
and rape on our campus, though they may

- lessen its frequency gradually over time.

Severe punishments need to be handed
down to individuals who initiate sexual as-
sault. Not only that, we need to create an
environment where victims feel free to re-
port such crimes, and that means taking
equally harsh measures against individuals
who intimidate and harass victims who come
forward.

We urge the adrr1inistration,as well as
the vafious Greek orgatiizations, to take
quick action on this matter to resolve this
urgent campus issue.

 

“One secti tells students the equivalent of
how many cheeseburgers they ‘drank”’

~Unive1sity ofTexas onlinestudentdrinldng
survey, from an article dealing with the
dreadedfreshman 15

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderman

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Copy Editors Dane Boston

' Shane Wilson

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be emailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi I _
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450‘

Telephone: (540) 458-406‘ /
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

 / /'

ll

 RlNG—TU%;\='l

 

CAtEYANoursoN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

FivrAn;ANDEitsoAo@wtnE)tr

 

INI

 

PAGE *3

Live a life above and beyond fraternity parties

I’m not so dense, as a student at this school, to suggest to the
student body that fraternity parties aren’t exciting and a fundamental

part of one’s college-
experience. I get the
lure, honestly:
drinks, dancing, and
members of the oppo-
site sex. But I do
think that people
should realize, espe-
cially the ones I al-
ways hear talking
about how “there is
nothing to do here
besides go to frat
parties” that there
are indeed other
things to do on a Fri-
day night, or even a
Wednesday for that
matter. There actu-
ally may be life be-
yond fraternity par-
ties, for those who
are willing to look.
Don’t get angry.
I’m not saying that
people should stop

bid, a little culture?

You may be wondering where this is coming from,
what spurred me to question a cherished W&L “tra-
dition” of trying to maintain a perpetual state of drunkenness.

Case in point: we had an international film festival come to our
school a few weeks ago and only a handful of students attended. I
always thought college students loved movies! Besides the defense
that it just wasn’t advertised enough and people didn’t know it was

There has been an interesting phenom-
enon lately — this whole time, really — that is
starting to get to me.

I’ll be out or I’ll be in the Co—op, or some-
where, and this boy that I swear I’ve never
seen in my life, comes up to me and is like
“Hey Mary Childs! How are you?” You’ve got
both of my names. I got nothing.

Or it’s that girl that you see everywhere
and God knows you’ve met her about six
times, and for the life of you all you can recall
is that supercute pair of shoes she wore a
week ago. “Hey, Mary!” “Hey, SuperCute
Shoes!” That doesn’t re— ..
ally work.

I’m starting to be em-
barrassed by this. The
other day in Psych class,
which is a class of 30 or so, the professor
gave a stack of papers to my friend and me
and told us to pass them out.

Boy, was that an awful experience.

We sat there and we were like, “Do you
know a Jonathan? Caitlin? Is there a Caitlin?
Meredith? No? Anyone? LOOK, I know her! !”
And we’d hand out about every 14th paper. It
was terrible.

My Psych class is FULL of people I know.
Or rather, I know their faces very well, and I
know that they are in my psych class.

I know I should know them. I mean, it just
feels kind of stalkerish to go buy a yearbook,
but that may be the next step.

The all—time—best I—Don’t—Know-You mo-
ment for me was a few weekends ago when I
was at some house, having a lovely time as
always. Some guy I would have bet money
that I’d never met before joins a conversa-
tion, laughs at something I did, and says:
“Oh, Crazy Mary."

As if that was my name. Crazy Mary. Like
I had introduced myself to him as that.

I think I stared at him for a while, just

 

 

A ou, 
MARY CHILDS ‘08

THE BIG PICTURE
_ ANNE FINLEL‘QL

completely confused. Who are you? How do
you know my name? And most of all, how did
I get that prefix?

Possibly worse than the Dear-God—I—
Know—I—Know-You is the HEY!—Oh—you-
don’t-remember-me? It’s happened to all of
us. You see that girl that you totally bonded
with last weekend 5- it’s possible you’re go-
ing on a road trip together soon - or that re-
ally nice guy you talked to for like an hour on
Monday, and you jaunt up all cocky-like, and
you’re like oh my god, hey. How have you
been. And you re—embark upon that oh-so-
special conversation that you
wrote in your journal about.
And there’s that blank stare.
The blink. The look to the
friends - do you know this girl?
Oh God. Now you’re the Stalker Freshman.
Don’t admit to owning the yearbook...

Is there any graceful way out of that situ-
ation? All I know to do is the desperate
scramble for words, a quick scan to see if
you’re among anyone remotely known to you
that will remember, and the Turn-and-Sprint.
That last one is my favorite. Then they re-
member you.

But how can one tell the difference be-
tween the ones that remember your last name,
high school, mother’s maiden name and
sister’s favorite ice cream, and the ones that
blocked out, or blacked out, the entire spec-
tacular conversation where you were totally
on your game and proved the epitome of witty
and wonderful company?

There’s no way to tell. There’s no one to
help you. It’s a Russian roulette, and the odds
are worse.

I propose that upperclassmen wear signs.
There would be the “Excellent Memory,"
“Slight Stalker Tendencies,” “We-Went to
School Together, Idiot,” “You Had Dinner
With Me,” versus the “Sometimes I Don’t

going on, which I buy to some extent, there is no excuse in my mind
for such a pitiful turnout.

We are lucky
enough to have a
rich alum bring an in-
credible opportunity
to our rural campus
of 1600 students (se-
riously— like Cannes
Lex-Vegas style) and
I find it extremely dif-
ficult to talk more
than a couple of my
friends into skipping
one night of parties
to come. To me,
something is wrong
with this picture. At
any other school, the
A theater would have
‘ _ been packed. Is the
typical Washington
and Lee student’s
idea of culture con-
fined to watching
- drunken students on
photo 50147169’ of armada '

GOT CULTURE? See the Shenandoah Shakespeare Company act in the only replica of the Blackfriars Theater
going entirely, or even stop going every week. But every once in a
~ while, when there isn’t anything too terribly exciting to attend, would
it kill you to give up one night of hard partying in
favor of a relaxing evening with friends or, God for-

a frat basement stage? By all means, continue going out four times
a week if that’s your scene. Only you won’t know what you could
possibly be missing out on unless you give something
completely different a try. You could go to Staunton’s
Blackfriars Playhouse, the only recreation of
Shakespeare’s original indoor theater.

Or maybe a concert is more your style, or a camping
trip or scenic hike? Hell. You could just drive around for hours and
get lost. At least it would make for meaningful conversation that
you would actually remember the next morning. Resist being sucked
into the whirlwind that can be the W&L party scene. Or at least do
yourself a favor and come up for air once in a while.

A freshman by any other name would still be forgetful

Remember MY Name,” “You Are Not Impor-
tant To Me Today,” and “Were You the One
Hitting On My Boyfriend?”

What scares me about this problem is
not the hatred from the upperclassmen who
can totally tell that I’ve forgotten their
names, but the fact that I think it’s spread-
ing. This amnesia has now moved to other
parts of my brain. _ ’

For example, a few friends from UVA
came to visit a while ago. Upon seeing them,
I looked at one and stood there for a few
seconds and had NO IDEA what his name
was.

I’ve gone to school with him for thir-
teen years, and after a month I’ve lost any
knowledge of ever having been friends with
him. It was more of an “Oh, Don’t I Know
That Kid?” and a quick memory scan of the
past week to see if I had a name to match
the face. I

Thirteen years, erased in one month.
Amazing.

But thankfully, there are always the Safe ‘

People. These are the ones that for what-
ever reason, you always know their name,
and they usually get yours right too. I have
only a couple of these. I cherish them.

Safe People, you know who you are -
when I see you, I probably point and say
your name very, very loudly, as if to show
out that Yes, It is possible for me to retain
so’meone’s appellation. Thank you.

Sometimes I get a little overzealous with
the name thing, and I might kind of scare
you — “Hey, LILLY!”

Whoa, there, tiger. You got it.

If you’re a Safe Person, though, don’t
be scared by my excitement over your name,
and the fact that I probably don’t leave you
alone. You may think I’m stalking you. Please
take comfort in the fact that it’s not you,
it’s your name.

 

Boston Sports - «-9

for disaster, anyone?

answers?

GoogIe- T

Pats going for the  time winning streak
record, and it might finally be the year for the BoSox. Only problem-
a Yankees team with a knack for pulling off weird, ﬂuke plays. Recipe

Debate Pictures- h Have we really gotten to the point, as a nation,
where we LOOK for our President to have a wire on him to get fed

V-Ball- T Chrstine Gladyz is a setting MACHINE.

CDC- 1, Their JOB, aside from killing Ebola breakouts, is. to not rim
out of ﬂu vaccine. And they ran out of ﬂu vaccine.

. Apparently now it’s being used by detectives assigned
‘ to cold cases to solve crimes. What CAN ’T it do?

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Congress- L Now, I know politicians can’t escape from money and its
inﬂuence, but isn’t demanding a set amount of money to propose a cer-
tain piece of legislation a bit over the top?

Firing your longtime manager and mentor, then getting married- l
Didn’t work for Tiger Woods, not going to work for Britney Spears.

Indy IM Football ‘f First place this year. Oh yeah, you heard me.
Cafe 77- .1. Only retail items after 9? Iwant my Colonnade Club!
Lex Chinese Food- «-9 Eat at Crystal’s. Trust me on this one.

Staunton- T For shopping-hungry W&L students, it’s the new Roanoke.

Hardee’s- .1. Used to be unique southern fast food, now it’s just a clone
of what we in the west call “Carl’s Jr.” And whose great idea was it to call
a piece of food a “thickburger”?

A c " PlayingAce-Seven off—suit in Texas Hold ‘Em- 1 You’ll get a ﬂop of Ace,
Queen, Seven, and I guarantee you someone has Ace-Queen.

 

 

PAGE 4

Exam Stress
Staggers Sophomore

  

photo touﬁegr afp/Jotograp/.301/ei't. mm
ALLTHE LEAVESARE BROWN. And exam time is gray for many Generals.

Fall Break is coming just in time. After arriving at school
refreshed from summer vacation, I had no problems getting
right back into the swing of things. I was a little stressed, but
was able to stay on top of all my work and still have time to
spare. I was really on top of things and had the grades to
show it.

This was before, like many other students, I caught one

. of the bugs that have been going around. I spent 3 whole

days in bed just trying to recover enough to get to class. I
only missed one day of school, but I realized that the amount
of work I typically get done on the weekend really carries me
through the rest of the week. It has now been two weeks
since I got sick and I am still trying to catch up from only
three days off.

As the term progresses, there seems to be more work to
do. I’m not sure if professors are actually assigning more
work, if the material is just more complex and so it requires
more study time, or if the work load is the same, but I’mjust
meeting it with less enthusiasm.

No matter which is true, I’ve noticed that students have
begun missing more class, doing less studying, and have
become more tired in general. This is why I feel that it is
important for reading

IN THE IRONS days to really become
, more of a fall break. I
CARISSA SHIPLEY  would rather get mid-

terms over with during
the beginning of that week and be able to really relax over
break than have to feel my nagging conscious tell me that I
need to study for tests all while trying to catch up on sleep
and relax in general. Even having only one or two tests be-
fore break would‘ help relieve stress and allow me to try to
make the most of the time off. ~

I realize that not everyone may agree with me and a lot of
students need and want those days to really study. This is
where the uniqueness of Washington and Lee comes in. Be-
cause of our wonderful honor system, most professors seem
to feel comfortable allowing students to schedule their own
exams. It also seems that professors here have a genuine
interest in the well—being of their students and are very will-
ing to help their students learn and do well in any way pos-
sible.

Thus, I feel that professors should allow students to take
their midterms whenever they want. Any time after that last
class before break on Tuesday or Wednesday, professors
should make the exam available. It could be dueby the end of
the class period when the professor normally would have it
scheduled.

This way, students could decide when they want to study,
how they want their break to be structured, and the order in
which they want to take their mid-terms. This would allow
students ‘to be on top of their work and refreshed and ready
for the second part of term.

If, like me, you are feeling a little stressed right now, here
are some tips for reducing stress. Everyone online seems to
have a tip, but these seem like the best to me.

1) Get enough sleep, rest, and relaxation time
2) Eat a well balanced diet, including breakfast
3) Drink a lot of water, and not a lot of alcohol
4) Don’t smoke

5) Exercise 30 minutes, 3 to 4 times per week

»6) Plan out how much time you will spend on each activity or

assignment

7) Make a schedule for the day

8) Talk with a friend or write in a journal

9) Take deep breaths and stretch throughout the day
10) Avoid getting too hungry, angry, alone, or tired

Letter to the Editor

  Ot3ﬁiiit)Ns

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11,2004

Amerians shouldn’t fret overlbal imge

  

photo mtmtegr of /r/mo4p.org

ALLONS ENFANTS DE IA PATRIE. A joint Franco-American protest over American foreign policy, in Paris.

Many young minds today, concerned with
America’s global image, are fixated on what seems to
be an overwhelming amount of anti—American senti-
ment overseas. It seems that every day on the news
(even if you do watch Fox), there is mention of an
attack made on Americans and their allies, and the
general consensus is that it will not end any time soon.
Liberals blame Bush’s foreign policy and the War in
Iraq.’ Conservatives counter that this is untrue and
that Gore wouldn’t have done any better (and neither
would Kerry if he gets the chance). So what can we
really attribute this blame to? Some say that the coun-
tries opposing us, especially those in the Middle East,
are so backwards in their religion, society, and politi-
cal beliefs that they will always be against democracy
and thus hate Americans. If you ac-

US aid to their own countries very much, giving rise
to a widespread suspicion that much of it ends up in
private bank accounts rather than in the hands of
those who need it. As a result of this, and much
unquestioned anti—American propaganda, democracy
has long been stigmatized as a product of the West.
Combine these with leaders willing to blame the US
for crises of their own making, and you get this
hatred for Americans that we see in the Middle East.

And then there is France. Boy, do we,love those
freedom fries. The near sophistication bf the anti-
Americanism we find there does little to make it more
bearable. How ironic, for no other country benefited
more from American security in the twentieth cen-
tury. What do we do in retaliation for such under-
handed snobbery? Why grant them

cept this as true, you are exactly the  a permanent, veto—wielding seat on
ignorant American that the French ‘ the UN Security Council, of course.
laugh at while sipping their café au WHHNEYDUFFEY  While we may have different values

lait. This is not to say that we

shouldn’t in many ways resent anti-Americanism, but
we must realize that this is an issue that is bigger than
a culture clash. It is not based on who we are so much
as what we are perceived to do in the global commu-
nity.
The Middle East has always been a hot spot for
the United States, but what has particularly aggra-
vated such anti—American feelings is our support of
Israel. For the past fiftyyears, the United States has
stood behind Israel in every conﬂict against Palestin-
ians and Arabs. After all, Israel is our only reliable
strategic partner in the Middle East. However, this has
resulted in an erroneous perception of unity in US
and Israeli policy which often creates issues. Another
aggravation is that Israel has been receiving US tax
money since 1949 and is currently the largest recipi-
ent of US foreign aid, -receiving about one-fifth of our

‘ total allocations. This causes a considerable amounts

of resentment. However, it is worth being mentioned
that America is financially and militarily committed to
the security and existence of many Arab countries.
Interestingly, Arab regimes and media do not discuss

when it comes to security and mili-
tary issues, French resentment comes more from a
suspicion of America’s power and perhaps a sense
of vulnerability in a major nation to American he-
gemony. So, while it may be an outspoken, irritat-
ing annoyance, it is merely that-an annoyance.
Maybe in some way, their resentment comes from
some knowledge of this fact.

The United States has been down this road be-
fore, battling with a tarnished image and fighting
off both old allies and new enemies. Bush has be-
come a lightning rod for these anti—American senti-
ments, but the issue goes farther than him. No mat-
ter who is President, there is little doubt that the US
will strongly support Israel, will wage war against
terrorists, and continue to pursue its own interests.
So, we must not hope for an end to all anti—Ameri-
can feelings; the only way that couldever happen
would be if there were no America. 9

Instead, we, as the world’s most powerful na-
tion, must learn to cope with both the inconve-
niences and the great tragedies that result from this
status.

YES
77%

Phi Quick Poll

“Does the White‘ Book, as it exists today,, need substantive changes?”

 

57 students polled, 30 male, 27 female. Poll has 95% confidence in +/-5% margin of error.

No
23%

phi@wlu.edu with your correction.

Errata t

- In last week’s Phi, Caley Anderson mistakenly quoted “sound and fury, signifying nothing” to F. Scott Fitzgerald.
William Faulker was the author who, in fact, referenced this quote, originally from Shakespeare’s MacBeth.

— It was reported last week that the Honor System at the University of _Virginia is older than that of Washington & Lee.
In fact, the exact relative order of each university’s creation of an Honor System is unknown as of yet, and so, we cannot
be sure when, or even if, President Lee established the single sanction.

- While errors are inevitable, it is the policy of the Ring-tum Phi to attempt to avoid them, and to correct and acknowledge
any mistakes of fact as quickly as possible. If we have made a mistake that you feel needs correcting, please e—mail

GSA President criticizes Phi for assertions of political partisanship

Dear Editor, realm of political partisan-

dents, administrators, and

As per the staff editorial

in the Monday, 0ctober49' is-

sue of the Ring—Tum Phi, I
personally would like to com-
ment on the accusations of
the Phi’s editorial staff. The
editorial was titled “EC-
funded student organizations
must remain non—partisan,”
and with this statement, I
whole—heartedly agree.
However, the Phi insinu-
ates through lies and half-
truths that the W&L Gay-
Straight Alliance has devi-
ated from its goals and has
crossed the line into the

,Alliance has “the echoes of

ship. Nothing could be more faculty committed to in-
.wrong._, W 1 77 W N creasing tolerance and ac-

The editorial coiitinﬁiéé” Eejiiahbiéiof the gay, lesbian
by stating the Gay-Straight and bisexual members ofthe
W&L community.”

Where is this political
echo? As far as I am con-
cerned, tolerance and accep-
tance are neither Republican
nor Democratic ideals. Both
Democrats and Republicans
find community in the GSA,
and if you were to ask any
one of them, I seriously
doubt any would suggest
that they feel politically
threatened.

partisanship” in its mission.
Since I highly doubt anyone
at the Phi has ever actually
read the GSA’s mission state-
ment, here it is:

“Each member of the
W&L community benefits
from any and all measures to
increase tolerance and ac-,
ceptance of the differences
within it. GSA will serve as
an organization for stu-

The authors of the edi-
torial offer some “evidence”
to prove their point. They
state that “the GSA, for ex-
ample, had Kerry-Edwards
signs at the Student Activi-
ties Fair.” This is simply in-
correct. The GSA shared a
table with the Young Demo-
crats, who were in posses-
sion of the signs.

The GSA, however, was
sitting behind a rainbow ﬂag.
Where are the staff editori-
als condemning whichever
club happened to be sitting
next to the College Republi-
cans?

This is sloppyjournalism
at best, politically motivated
hate-mongering at the worst.
The EC budget hearing for
the GSAtjust’ so happens to
be the day after the Phi was
released, so now ‘the GSA
will have to defend its good
name in front of the EC with-
out any time for a rebuttal to
appear in the Phi. How con-
venient for the staff of the
Phi. Could it be that the Phi
is trying to slander other EC-
funded student clubs in a bid
to get more money left over
for themselves? See, I can
make unsubstantiated claims,

too. It’s easy!

This mix-up could have
been easily avoided. All the
staff had to do was contact
me oreany of the other offic-
ers in the GSA, and this situ-
ation would have taken care
of itself. Instead, the Phi de-
cided to take a page out of
the Dan Rather book on jour-
nalistic integrity and make
accusations first and check
the facts second. Shame on
you Ring—Tum Phi.

Sincerely,
Allen Barry
President, W&L GSA

 

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004 
 /
o I \

 

Walker Williams / The Ring-Tum Phi

Dodds on a roll  

Freshman came from out of
nowhere to dominate team .

BY JOHN BovAY
STAFF WRITER

Freshman soccer
phenom Josh Dodds jour-
neyed almost 1000 miles from
Cedar Rapids, Iowa with no
guarantee of playing college
soccer.

Now, he leads the W&L
team in goals and averages
about 60 minutes of playing
time per game. The athlete of
the week after his three goals
in two games against
Hampden—Sydney and Emory
& Henry, Dodds has defi-
nitely proved that he’s earned
his place on the team.

Dodds discovered W&L
through US News rankings
and decided during his col-
lege search that he would
only look at schools where he
could potentially play soccer.
Although he was -not—~re-~
cruited to play soccer here, a
former assistant coach
watched him play part of a
game during a tournament
during his junior year of high

school. He had to try out for
the team once he arrived at
school in August, and found
that the competition for a spot
on the roster was more difﬁ-
cult than'he’d expected.
Dodds described the ma-
jor differences between play-
ing club soccer in high school
and college soccer is the
strength and quickness of col-
lege players. Dodds enjoys all
his teammates, and describes
them as “a strong team” that’s
had “some unlucky breaks”
so far this year. He says the
men’s team has the potential
to “get on a roll and surprise
some people and go pretty far’ ’
in ODAC and NCAA play
later this fall. He calls senior
captain Peter Miller “intense”.
Dodds plans to major in
business, and he has a
younger brother who also

plays soccer, in addition to a - -' -‘

sister who plays volleyball.

The Generals return to
action Tuesday at Eastern
Mennonite, and play their next
home game Saturday against
Catholic.

IKDFKFS

 

SINCE

Wednesday

° M Soccer
at Emory arid Henry--4
' W Soccer vs. Ho1lins——4:30

1897 

  
  

THE RETURN OF

titan:

  

(540; 464-2253

COSTUME PARTY Oct. 31
2-6 p.m., ages 2-12, Toy Museum; 540-458-3772

<5?-FEATURll&G%s»
our ammo uousrzn

t.............

' OCT. 21-23 and OCT. 28-31
at   ‘..(NEw) psycﬂo Room

-, g 91.00 are
: Anmssiou
I

for GACH member of your
group with this coupon I
.I

www.naturaIbridgeva.com

NEW THIS YEAR....Tl-IE LIVING TORSOI

(It's Really Alive)

$05511” 7-10 pm —

Q00 (SCAR! ER)
FREAKOUT FOREST

I iol(NEW)
: I SPECIAL EFFECTS

I 1.0 (NEW?
RETME. 3001'?!

Sponsored by:
w“*mART ...-.  

 -— .._ %

  

 
 

PAGE 5

Women victorious at tennis tournament
Hagerman leads the victory at ITA Southeast Region Championship

BY SARAH BLooM
STAFF WRITER

On Monday afternoon,
Washington and Lee participated
in the ITA Southeast Region
Championship hosted by Mary
Washington. Senior Lindsay
Hagerman, leading the Generals,
stormed the competition, winning
the singles championship for the
second year in a row.

Hagerman’s win earned her
a trip to Florida Gulf Coast Uni-
versity in Fort Meyers, Florida
from October 14-17 for the ITA
Small College National Charnpi-
onship. ‘

“This is a great opportunity
for her to see where she is with
all other top players in east re-

gion. We all wish her the best of
luck and can’t wait to see how
she does,” said sophomore
Ginny Wortham of her
teamn;iate’s accomplishment.

In order to earn this mini va-
cation to Florida, Hagerman had
to defeat teammate, sophomore
Kristen McClung, in order to ad-
vance to the championship
match. McClung also advanced
to the finals after defeating the
second seeded player.

Over the weekend, the Gen-
erals took a turn as the home court
team, hosting the W&L Fall Fes-
tival.

On Saturday, Hagerman
again maneuvered her way into
the championship round by de-
feating her opponents from

\

Emory and Carnegie Mellon early
on. Hagerman later teamed up
with senior Lora Farris in doubles
against Mary Washington and
Carnegie Melon to secure a spot
in the championships doubles
round. . .

In number four singles,
freshmen Catherine Rentschler
and Kelly Will each advanced to
Sunday’s rounds.

On Sunday, Hagerman and
Farris won in the doubles cham-
pionship round in an exciting tie-
breaker over Emory’s number one
team. Hagerman also went on to
win her singles competition.

Unfortunately, top eight
player, sophomore Kristen
McClung was unable to recover
from a sprained ankle on Satur-

. day during 21 doubles match and

was unable to play.

Highlights for the Generals
included Rentschler’s win in the
fourth ﬂight. Also, teammates
Kristen Crawford and freshman
Ali Chasey’s claimed absolute
victory this weekend. Crawford
and Chasey went undefeated
through the entire tournament.

“I think the tournament was I

a really good experience because
the top teams were there, Emory

was there. It was a good chance -
to see the other teams before the I '

spring season and how we might
match up. Overall, it was a really
good weekend, we fought hard
and learned what we needed to
do to get ready for spring,” said
Wortham of the competition.

Boston’s not out of the

game

yet

Don’t give up on the team quite so soon, it’s not too late for success

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

As I read the story I couldn’t
really believe it myself, the Curse
of the Barnbino. . .could be over.
In case you haven’t heard the
story, I’ll give you a quick recap.

About a month ago, after the
Red Sox’s "dismal series against
the Yanks but before the good
one (already makes you stroke
the beard, doesn’t it?), Manny
Ramirez was at the plate. Quick
side note, I love Manny’s hair and
the way he has to squish the hel-
met on top of it.

Anyways, he fouled the ball
off down the third base line and
it hit a little boy in the mouth. So
far so good. . .l<nocked a few teeth

out, blood, all that good stuff. But ~

this was no ordinary boy, oh no!
This boy lives in the same house
that Babe Ruth used to’ live in
when he was with the Red
Sox. . ...creepy isn’t it?

From this we can conclude
that this little boy is in fact the
physical manifestation of the
curse. So for all you skeptics out

 

   

. mﬂs
 of Historic Lexington, Vﬂ
1,, Thursday, October 28“'
 through

        
    

7:00pm Tours Also
: on Friday 29”‘

.‘_ and on Saturday 30'”
;**a*******
" RESERVATIONS REQUIRED

540.464.2250

 
       
   

there right now thinking that this
is just a coincidence, here’s some
reasons to believe.

First off, I point to the previ-
ously mentioned Yankees series.
They have a really horrible se-
ries against their nemesis then
this event takes place and they
follow it up closely with a great
series against the Yanks. Already
the signs are pointing in the right
direction. . ‘

On top of this, everything
just seems set up so perfectly for
them now. Think about it, last
year they lost a heartbreaking
ALCS to the Yankees in which
Pedro gets hit and the manager
fired. Then a great arms race in
the off-season separates the two
teams as clearly the favorites
going into the year.

Pedro Martinez, the long-
time ace, has a horrible finish to
hisseason that brings to ques-
tion his effectiveness. Where can
he prove himself? Where can he
find vindication for his loss in last
years playoffs? Nowhere better
but in a series with the
Yankees. . ...and he looked good
against the Angels. If one were-

Fnday

° Volleyball at

Emory Invitat;ional——4:30
' Field Hockey at
Eastern Mennonit --5230

Happy 18th Birthday. Lauren
October 14th

 

Love, Mom. Dad & Adam

writing a script for this they’d
have a good start right there. Now
get a game 7 series win in the last
at bat after a great outing by
Pedro, and we’re in business.
And the proposed opponent?
The Cardinals. . .one of the origi-
nal teams in baseball and the
team with the second most World
Series titles to the Yankees.

So beyond all this tonifool-
ery (sorry, once I thought of that
word I decided that it had to be
in my article somehow), is there
any ACTUAL reason to believe
that this year could be any dif-
ferent for the Bosox? Definitely.

As I previously stated, they
have great pitching, and a com-
parable lineup to the Yankees, but
beyond that reason is an even
greater one.

For those of us who don’t
believe in curses, I myself am a
member of this group, it seems
that the only reason a curse can
exist is because a team or city be-
lieves and makes it happen. It’s a
se1f—fulﬁlling prophecy; I’ve seen
it plenty of times with the D01-
phins. Start the year 3-1 or 4-0

 

and suck late, particularly against
the Jets. So if nothing else, per-
haps this little tale can get Bos-
ton fans and players to believe
themselves, and finally lay this
stupid curse to rest so we can all
focus on laughing at Cubs fans.
On a completely unrelated
note that I just found kinda
funny, my friend Andrew Rob-
erts was discussing my line from
an earlier article when I said,
“George Steinbrenner really is
Satan’s baseball obsessed
nephew,” and we began to come
up with other parallels. So here’s
what we came up with if the

Yankees = The Evil Empire
George Steinbrenner — The Em-
peror

Joe Torre —- Darth Vader
Yankees — Stonn Troopers
Manny —— Luke

Ortiz — Chewy

Pedro - Han Solo

Schilling — Princess Leia

We decided that Pedro and
Schilling had to be Han Solo and
the Princess since they both
bickeralot.

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowari——l

    

PAGE 60

 ’
Team still riding high

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

Riding team confident that the best is yet to come-

BY R0313 SOUKUP
STAFF WRITER

Several weeks ago the W&L
riding team began their 2004-2005

' season with a third place fmish

at the Radford Invitational.
While there are several
styles of riding, the W&L team

. competes in equitation. This
' style combines Fences, which

includes jumps, and Flats, which
have no jumps. While the ﬂats

_ usually involve instructions from
~ the judge and armouncer, Fences

require that riders memorize the
course before they start.

Style and looking sharp is
important for any rider, as equi-
tation is scored on the way the
rider handles him or herself. In-
deed, riding is a rare co-ed sport,
and men and women compete

against each other at the highest
levels.

Shows are divided into dif-
ferent divisions and each rider is
placed into a division depending
on their experience and skill level
to ensure that the shows stay fair
and no one is overmatched.
There is one judge at every show
and the way equitation is scored
guarantees objectivity. The rid-
ers at each show use the host
school’s horses, the thought be-
ing that working with a horse
they have never ridden before
will demonstrate how good each
rider really is. 9

The team starts riding as
soon as school starts in the fall,
and takes a break for the remain-
der of fall semester in rnid-No-
vember. But as soon as second
semester starts they are back at

it again. They will ride during win-
ter semester until March.

The team competes in the
second region of the Intercolle-
giate Horse Show Association
(the sport’s governing body),
which includes eight other
schools like UVA, Bridgewater,
and James Madison. Each
school in the region is present at
every show. -

Last year W&L ﬁnished with
their highest ranking ever in re-
gions at third, and very close to
the top two teams. The team has
three more shows this fall, and
junior captain Sarah Murray said
the team expects success again
this year. “We’re getting better
and better every year,” she said,
“We’ve got a great group of
freshman and we think we’re re-
ally going to do well this year.”

Football shuts out Catholic

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball team recorded its second straight
shutout with a 22-0 win over Catholic
University on Satmday afternoon in
Washington, D.C.Itwastheﬁrsttirne
since 1982 that the Generals have
posted back—to-back shutouts. That
season, they shutout Catholic 41-0 fol-
lowedbya60blankingofGeorgetown

”lheAGenera1s(3-2,2—0)tooka3»
0 lead on a 42-yard ﬁeld goal by
sophomore placekicker Ben Long
(Frankford, W.Va/Hargrave Military)
with8:44remainingintheﬁrstquar—
ter. Long then connected from 26
yards out with 12:14 left in the sec-
ond quarter to give W&L a 6-0 lead
which it would take into halftime.

After halftime, the Generals
broke the game open by scoring 16
pointsinthethirdquarter. Sophomore
widereceiverColtonWard(ChariotIe,
N.C/Charlotte Country Day) started

’ thescoring spreeona19-yardtou'ch—

downn1nwith8:43leftinthequarter.
Ward wouldﬁnish the game with four
carries for 35 yards and atouchdown.
He also caught a career—high 11
passes for 84 yards.

W&L extended its advantage
to 16-0with4:35remaininginthequar—
ter on a 24-yard ﬁeld goal by Long.
Catholic fumbledtheensuingkickoff
and the Generals recovered the ball
ontheCardinals’ 29yandline.Onthe
very next play, W&L junior nmning
back Michael Lackett (Allenwood,
NJ /Wall) hit senior wide receiver
John Bamwell (Charlestown, S.C/
Porter-Gaud) on a 29-yard strike to
givetheGeneralsa22-0leadThe
two-point conversion failed produc-
ing the ﬁnal score.

The W&L defense recorded
ﬁve sacks and held the Cardinals to
just 116 yards of total oﬂense. The
Generals now have 30 sacks on‘the
season and arejust ﬁve shy ofthe
school record of 35 sacks.

Olfensively, W&L was led by

junior quarterback Greg Tweardy
(Bethel Park, Pa/Bethel Park), who
completed 27—of-42 passes for 246
yardslackettrushed l7timesfor51
yards and senior wide receiver Taylor
Callaham(Atlanta, Ga/McDonough)
caughteightballsfor 115 yards.
Freshman defensive back
Kyle Luby (Dallas, Texas/High-
land Park) notched a team-high
11 tackles and junior defensive
end Liam Murray (Oneonta, NY]
Oneonta) had eight tackles.
Catholic (2-3, 1-1)waspacedby
nmning back Ed Smith, who rushed
for 54 yards on 15 carries. Quarter-
backAnthonyDurhamoornp1eted 15.-
of-25 passes for 84 yards and wide
receiver Frank Lynch caught six
passes for 65 yards. Anthony
DelBorrel1made 10tackles andRyan
Parrish chipped in with nine tackles.
Washington and Lee returns to ac-
tion on Saturday when it hosts
Harnpden-Sydney. The game is
slated to begin at 1:00 pm.

       

 

   
   

 

 

Wj&£l\tIen’s soccer , 

  

   

  

ball team 

3-0  over 3Queens College

 . tm¢i.I§&n<i0¥P?!:Mac9t:~9I¥»:Sén1r- 
2  day1afté.m°°ii#‘Th¢jGenéra1st16: : "
4)defeatedQt1e_én§.30~23;.'30»21, i

_ The  am:  mars

' is G, and woI_I"ien-’s- cross 5 cm2’aay,j,. 9
 wem in action on samrfctay ‘

. attire: Virginia State Divisionill-1‘ 

‘III meet§'hostedhyAEastem  ..  --

.noaiteUrtiversitjI,Th6W&Lrr1eni '

 

 

‘ j 'McCh1r_e‘(MerI§phiS; TenrrAJMem-"ii

‘ f1)efeatsAGuilford, 1-«lo (10/9% .
; Senior midﬁelder tustin Mysatr.
j(I\/Ia:xietta,GaJWoodwardAcad-i v 
1erriy)st3o£edat;.tl1e,72:22.marl:ito .

               
Ayor_‘¢jttI:xvi£aﬁonal(10f9}3 ,compeze;;atvrrgmia;’s:ase:‘t  Av mrrsnegionaitrs/4_).r. .. V 
 ' ' ‘a;ad.LeeAvo1te_y- 1 Divisi'm1I§rI£fMeet(10l9)  Washingtonaridiseeseniorléaul-,

phi»; Un}i:ersréy’scuooi)§and j1rn~ 

   

semifiaatsi ot,,;thé' at g

; ioriyavid Shay avlartiaez, Ga!
Augusta. Wop).   in the '

A A A , 'men’s,.soccerteaara1.-0 victory L.
""135 and

 ov.er0DA,C-rival Gtii¥foid‘Co11ege., 

’ doubles flights ‘at ttxe_£rrzst.sou1th_  = ' orrsaturday afternoon in  .

give the Washington andAA’Lee


.. ArAon'andLee“vtzonAren.’, _ ii  1
to ‘a 2-1:vrerory oyje:rjRoanolte

‘ ‘zoos-25 31-29. 

  

9  3°‘112j’?*’‘‘3.13?“‘3<?1§%?l*‘l‘43°ot:;.3o—’

’ ‘ sixtearrrsgf

. fi~r2ished7f1rst of. six tcatns, while‘, .. 9
' ‘ .jthe.wome’r1'_aIsoﬁrtisl3eci first of. A

 ’ 

 

Regional 'helc_i;at .Goucher tCo1~ A 4

.-b0ro,N.C. '4

. College on Saturday  '
was ﬁeld. “ 1- 

  

  
  
 

 

$68131

 

  
  

    
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
 

   

 
   

Ni) “ii .
iiiifillrg ll‘ _
_ W

   
  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop 9
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
S40-348-52% ° 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshopmlmslniormstlon.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunton
On [431 / I-64 at exit 205. Raphine. 4rnile.r wzrt on
Route 606. Raphine RM /Mfr/M a working
jam that offers "U~PICK" opponunitiesfor fresh
fruit when in seawn.

llres-Satl0:00-5:00,Weduntil8:00
m 

  

  

'!BHi¥§$-ﬁwlilt  i 5

   

Socials

Ga--cod’ f.-‘I§1fl"‘

 

   

rm  trmiroo time 

 

 
  
 

_- $9‘-.73 irliamro-ii: 1'tvan——rsiIe -mmaa Vista. W1 _
T WﬁﬂﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁWﬁvﬁﬁuﬁ5"55=%"k3s§t'h§$:‘§:$t'k5r$55"E'$%’Ir§'%'ﬁ'§&Wt5§5'§'%¥5t$‘h$ﬁ&ﬁ$5c‘lrt"ﬁ ..

mire marge lurto center   .
fi~‘2ﬁ‘t’-93’n

;‘$v“‘$¥“‘?%&§%““f“““t‘%‘$“““‘§“‘%‘%‘&““““‘%“%“ ’

Blue Hill 
Auto enter  

is now a   
mueﬁmnammemmaténsmmllumamenmhattatalnunttotmmtxtm

  -Elamiahm at  Steel Elthaltst -A   

aﬁmltm nmmtnellaeenrent 

“loam”  more S-m'rsrnrssmesrsnn  

 

O  Oﬂlﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁ at iﬁfﬂiﬂi SEER is SE11” 0  Piliﬁﬁﬁllwl O
OEIJHIIKIIJH WEB!’ 6 Q5131. EM’ 4! r-ﬂfﬂ  it

man (toning

3 " ”' ":;i3”s'2r:a‘u”ét% ‘ ‘   ‘ trim   was
« awmnuroesmununrar :1 nsﬂlamumﬁ P s
5 ‘fathom care .2; S.tal'I§-ﬁﬁ at  i "

 

Like to write sports? Contact
rulep@wIu.edu

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus
4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundmising solutions EQUALS
$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Coll TODAY for a $450 bonus when you
schedule your non-sales fundraiser with '
CampusFundr'aiser'.
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser'.com

Contact Campus

 

     
is Calling.

 

   .

The ad-Vﬁtf'l!LIfB of a litaiine starts _
with yttstt‘ anplissrtiovi. Milli? mine by ' 
Get. a tor an m-campus irrtervlew "
 you  be-overseas by next

summer:

A1huraday,. October 27

  
   
 

seaoacorpsimszvutusarwat.

Asap-ht otttine at
_pear:acorr:ts.,gov are
announce 3 Campus 1
intarwiew sttrnugtt f
Career Services by ’
ﬂetotrer 

  
 

,~uu¢vnm:mnnaueu:~nuuuavaunanr~arv:-emnwma-ill »-

 

     

 
 
 
 

  

us

X4060

 

  

   

it
BY KATHERINE KRALL
STAFF WRITER
4 There is justno possible way to sugarcoat it: grits

   

are disgusting.

Thiswasoneofthemanydiscoverieslmadeabout
this strange and wonderful land called The South. Upon
making my decision to attend Washington and Lee, I was

" excited to move south. There were many beneﬁts: more
sun, less snow, the farnedhospitality. Ihad no ideathatl
would actually be entering an entirely new culture, com-
plete with it own customs and language. I would argue

4 that northemers should be allowed to fulﬁll their lan-
guage requirement by learning to converse in southern
English. The idea of a triple contraction is the most com-
plex. Ihadheardtheterm“y’a1l”beforearrivinghere, but

. . . _ combinationslike“y’all’re”and“y’all’ve”areratherdifﬁ-
4 ' cult to master.

Southern attire was a bit of a shocker. Ifound myself
having to avert my eyes eachtimelpassed amale wear-
ing what I thought were just his boxers. I later learned

, theywereinfactMadrasshorts.WhereIlive,pearlsare
reserved for two age groups: those over ﬁfty and those
underten whoareplayingdressupandtryingtolooklike
they are over ﬁfty. Hair ribbons are very cute, but when
guys as well as girls have hair long enough to wear them,

‘ I question the ability of southern barbers. Music is differ-
ent down here. Really different. I just don’t even know
what to say about it.

Ihatetobreakittoyou,butIthinkyourl1istory

K books mightbefaulty. 'Ihe1eisnosuchthingas“the
War of Northern Aggression.” When I ﬁrst saw the
Confederate ﬂag being ﬂown, Ijust assumed it was a
harmless old relic of the Civil War. After seeing about
twenty-seven more, it slowly began to dawn on me: to

I southemers, this thing isn’t over! Although this may be
difﬁcult to believe, northemers go for days, even weeks,
at a time without once thinking about the Civil War. In
fact, I forgot about it for theentire month once! I have
found that southemers still consider succession a viable
solution to differences of opinion between the two re-
gions, andthatmosts1i1lhar’oorp1ansinthebackoftheir
mind for some sort of retaliation againstthe North. Above
the Mason-Dixon Line, battle cries of “Remember

1, Appomattox” would be met by blank stares and quick

references to history textbooks.
BeforeanivingintheSouth,Ilumpedallsouthemers

into one big category, but after living here for a while, I

noticed distinguishing characteristics.
YoucantellWestV1rginiansbytheratherlongpause

  
  
    
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  

  
 

mp RlNG~’l‘Uh:l PHI

RTS

aftertheyareaskedwhere theylive. Thisisnotbecause
theyaredumb;ontheconuary,theyarequitesrnart,they
justneedtimetodecidewhichstatetosay. Atthevery
besttheywillclaimdualresidencyinastateinwhichthey
ownasurnmerhomeoronethattheirmothervisitedwhile
pregnant Oreven one that they just know the name of.

North Carolinians will inform you at spontaneous
and random intervals that they are the true Carolina, and
that they actually don’t believe that South Carolina ex-
ists. Alabamans get a big, ridiculous grin on their face
whenever a band begins their favorite, “Sweet Home
Alabama” 6 - .

Using rather odd logic, an inordinately proud Geor-
gianattemptedtoasserthisstate’s superioritybypno-
nouncing tlmt it was founded as a prison colony.

‘ I am not actually sure if there is anyone from Louisi-
anaatW&L,btrtIhavemetseveralpeopleﬁon1I_oosiarrria

I have seen some students fromTermessee. 'Iheir
mouths moved, but only unintelligible sounds came out.
Sometimes I could swear they were trying to talkto me.

Forget thoughts of secession, Texas has been inde-
pendent since 1836. I was planning to visit a friend in
Texas, but I don’t have a passport and my shots aren’t up
todate. EveryTexanhasanirmatecharacteristicthat
whenever a noun is spoken, a certain phrase is triggered
Try it; say barbeque, and they will say, “Texas has the
best barbeque.” It works with everything, from Mexican
food to football, and from presidents to Stetsons. I have
even heard it claimed that Texas has the best Dr. Pep-
per.

Maryland is not located in the South. Neither is
Florida. And in a rare show of brilliancy, I once heard
a Virginian claim that certain parts of the state were in
fact positioned in the North.

Despite many confusing idiosyncrasies, I have
to admit that there is a certain charm about the South.
When a man opens the door for me when I am still six
hundred yards away, even if he yells at me to run, my
heart melts. I have gotten so used to cars stopping
and allowing pedestrians to cross the street that I am
certain I will be killed when I retum home.

Yankees deﬁnitely lack the courtesy and charm
that southemers possess in abundance, and the
southern hospitality certainly lives up to its reputa-
tion. There is a deﬁnite appeal to wearing delicate
sundresses while cheering for a brutal and ruthless
clash of football teams. And “y’all” is an incredibly
useful word. Yes, I must admit it; the South is grow-
ing on me.

But grits are stiH nasty.

  LIFE

Northern frosh Criticizes grits Southern Sophomore responds

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARrs& um-: EDITOR

My best friend lives in Albany, New York. So
for all you Northemers who will hate me at the
conclusion of my little piece of the Arts & Life
section, I do have friends who are Yankees. And
I have been topNew England, on more than one
occasion.

But for starters, Iwould like to say that “Y’all
talk funny.” I went to see Katie in August, and
the first thing her Exeter-educated friends said to
me was, “Oh my God! Please say something!”
But it sounded more like,
"Ohmygadpleasesaysomething.” It’s not that we
talk slowly. It’s that y’all talk too fast!

I’ve grown accustomed to the whole collars-
up deal on pastel-colored Lacoste polos. I under-
stand that you prep~school people have your own
way of doing things. I guess if I had to wear a
blazer and striped tie every day to class, I’d be a
little rebellious too.

Back in my summer camp days, I was good
friends with a set of twins who were from Canada,
and we were in the same cabin multiple times.
When I met their parents (who were originally from
Massachusetts), I made the egregious error of call-
ing them “ma’am” and “sir.” Oops. She didn’t
think I heard, but Meredith’s mother said under
her breath, “Does the girl think I’m old or some-
thing?” Below the Mason—Dixon line, if someone
is even ten years older than you, they are consid-
ered your elder, and “ma’am” and “sir” are merely
terms of respect.

I’m always saddened when I go to “The City”
with my parents, and they do not have sweet tea
at the obscenely—overpriced Manhattan restau-
rants. I remember one occasion during which I
ordered sweet tea, and the waitress glared at me
and smugly replied,
“Wedonothavesweetteahere.” When she left, my
dad leaned over to me and said, “We’re not in the
South anymore. They do things differently up
here.” .

Bluntly put, we’ve got y’all beat when it
comes to hospitality. My parents and I spent the
Fourth of July at a “barbeque” in New York with
some family friends. I don’t know what
“barbeque” means to y’all, but down here, it means
barbeque ribs, barbeque chicken, potato salad,

EMILYEDWARDS

L ARTS&L1FEEDl’IOR
EMAr;EDwAnosnvr@\nnr1)u

PAGE 7

baked beans, a million pitchers of lemonade and
sweet tea, and a plethora of desserts that would
make any sweet-toothed person go absolutely
insane. This “barbeque” consisted of lamb, some
sort of pork, a gourmet potato dish—thing, and
cheesecake. And, in our friends’ defense, they
honestly thought they were “puttin’ on the dog,”
as my mother says. .

But hospitality doesn’t just mean cooking
enough food for an army. It means holding open
doors, pulling out chairs for ladies, and just be-
ing polite. In Farmington, Connecticut, I had an
interesting experience with a cashier at the gro-
‘cery store. Stupid me, I just asked her how she
was doing. She cut her eyes toward me as she
scanned the milk I was buying and retorted,
“Whydoyoucare?” Manners. It’s all about man-
ners. If she had been a waitress, I don’t think I
would have tipped her very well.’

And I know this subject will hit a few nerves:

football versus lacrosse. It seems as though ev-
eryone up north plays lacrosse. And I must say,
you northemers can play lacrosse. The lacrosse
team from one of the boys’ schools in Memphis is
very good, compared to southern schools.
They’ve dominated Tennessee and regional la-
crosse for years; it’s almost not fair. But they
definitely got their comeuppance two years ago
when they went to D.C. to play Saint Alban’s (or
some boys’ school like that). MUS was utterly
humiliated by some lopsided score that’s better
reserved for Football Gameday Finals on ESPN.
But football is where it’s at. There is nothing like
packing into a stadium with 109,298 of your com-
rades and screaming at the top of your lungs. I
just don’t see that camaraderie at lax games. And
this is coming from someone who has seen a Syra-
cuse—Hopkins game.
What surprised me, though, as I spent more time
with Katie and her friends, was how much they
liked country music. Karen, a student at “Conn”
(not to be mistaken with UConn, upon fear of
death), knew more words to “Save a Horse, Ride a
Cowboy,” than I, a human country music juke-
box, did. Impressive.

But of course, I had never ever seen some-
one use The Official Preppy Handbook as a
coffee table decoration. I’m still trying to fig-
ure that one out. Maybe it’s just a Wesleyan
thing.

Cate Blanchett shines in independent film CoffeeandCigarettes

Habits. Social Props. Ice Breakers. Conversation Engagers.
Simple Celebrations. Tests of Will. Coffee and cigarettes are life
savers; they are staples of the social experience. In his film Cof-
fee and Cigarettes, writer-director Jim J armusch focuses on situ-
ations in which coffee and cigarettes play integral parts in saving
our dignity and preserving our relationships with other people.

This movie is worth watching if only for its incredible cast.
Steve Buschemi grates on your last nerve as an Elvis-obsessed
Memphis waiter (check out his theory on El_vis’
evil twin, Garon——there is some truth there, I think).
A conversation between Tom Waits and Iggy Pop
is priceless; I would have never put the two of
them together in a scene, but it works. They de-
scribe our era as the “coffee and cigarettes gen-
eration” and light up as Waits ironically declares that, “since I
quit, I can smoke one.” I

The chemistry is bizarre, but effective. I can’t explain it. Cate
Blanchett shines in the scene “Cousins”, playing two startlingly dif-
ferent women, a famous actress and her grungy cousin, brilliantly.

. “Groundhog day, Ghostbustin’ ass” Bill Murray gives a notable per-

formance as himself, disguised as a waiter, who serves GZA and RZA
of Wu Tang Clan. Murray swigs coffee generously, straight out of the
carafe, while emitting a gut-wrenching smoker’s cough. The irony of
GZA and RZA’s criticism of Murray’s smoking habit is obvious—and
hilarious.

The movie is full of subtle social commentary, but it never
takes a definitive moral stance. Its intention is to present snap-

iiii "EEiE6riBiTI’6rE°y“v?66i5'
ELYSE MOODY

shots of everyday interactions that occur in practically the same
setting all around the world, in many different economic and
social atmospheres. In fact, the majority of the scenes incorpo-
rate the same black-and-white tiled table top, ﬂoor, or, more cre-
atively, checkered coffee mugs. These elements, along with the
dirty saucers, and often-crumbling walls (with the exception of
Blanchett’s posh scene) are emphasized by the starkness of
Jarmusch’s clever use of black-and-white cinematography. The

0 ' black thickness of coffee, the residue of cigarettes,
and the measured distance between these people
stand out with surprising poignancy throughout
the film. ‘

These scenes, as well as many of the others,
express the idea that life gets in the way of the
relationships that ought to matter most to us. Coffee breaks are
the most fashionable way to catch up, to schedule in time to talk
to your family or best friend. If the situation gets awkward, you
have the ritual of coffee drinking or smoking a cigarette to dis-
tract you and to help you communicate with each other. In one
scene, a character repeatedly demands to know what is wrong
with his best friend, whom he hasn’t seen in years before this
lunch. Nothing is wrong; why does something have to be
wrong—have to be said, have to be answered—for us to take
the time to talk things over with someone who is close to us?
This is a question that the movie brings up repeatedly, leaving
you to answer it for yourself.

Not all of the snapshots are as effective as the ones I men-

tioned earlier; some simply are not evocative. The opening scene
with Roberto Begnini, a brilliant actor (Life is Beautiful) is inter-
esting because of its randomness, but, at the same time, it does
not really work within the context of the movie to introduce its
main themes of the awkwardness of social meetings and interac-
tions.

Also, some of the other scenes, especially one starring The
White Stripes, are too focused and simply too bizarre to ﬁt in with
the rest of the scenes (although, visually, it is a stunning scene.
Watch it and ﬁnd out why). The final vignette attempts to tie the
earlier scenes together by borrowing pieces of their dialogue, but it
is not really successful in doing this. It doesn’t matter. The words,
“call me when the break is over” embody the spirit of the movie in
such a way that makes the resolution of all of the individual plot
lines unnecessary.

The important thing is that you finish the movie with a sense

of the isolation that people allow themselves live with on a day-to-
day basis. By highlighting the realistic awkwardness that fre-
quently takes place between the closest of friends and relatives,
Coffee and Cigarettes reminds its audience to take the time to
foster close relationships with loved one——without being senti-
mental. To listen to what people are saying when you ask them
questions. To smile at a stranger and find out how his week is
going. To call a friend, just to catch up.

Coffee and Cigarettes is available at the Lexington Block-
buster (next to Wal—Mart) or on Amazon.com. Email me at
moodyb@wlu.edu with questions or suggestions.

Bruenidge

Pmrsrc.-t. rs.  gear?

   

-Emir.-' 'w‘i't.i'»r _t—Ir.’Z.It-’¢ fr! mﬁﬁﬂ’
tint"-SZ‘ia~5’E8El.

'  Nrarllr Lﬂﬁ H‘N’:s'
aextngim, ‘is-’.A
|~‘..:ult.:_§r.' 5s.§5.su.?! tﬁtngap-{nr,r. r=='-“e==‘i-
.J:'?.f;!t?t. 3:)‘ t’.-

igwcializing in:

tfrrrl~inp.r:di.c:
Sp-ens 1vI:raiIris.'~*'Ir°II;‘3
I Sr.'s_mal:“h-rI*I‘31..ri='- ..   
Pass»-CIT’ ’]j‘§:I"|fl«I.lIIItEm;.ClI1

  

   

,9;-We mi; .-;.1r g..n;;y;.t as gr: speak with new rralrwr stem’
i,._,,,;.°,;.,,g-.§,3 Wm, M,-,,‘ ,jrg;gg~5*rf;:pp5 3:41;; .r;rrr._g.r larxm r:orn:enrrrrg_ie:-ntr
znggmreng or _*p.r,’.v.:w £t‘l:'iilri"r:l'.'>2-£3113’.

2° V“-i7Ui>

inspirational....”

fi1'ﬂ"""t"“

FRIENDS OF PRESTON LIBRARY

CORDIALLY INVITES THE PUBLIC TO ITS FALL 2004 MEETING & LECTURE

DOLLY HARDEE TURMAN MEETING ‘ROOM

THE VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE

 MﬂﬂR
WILL DISCUSS HOPE, INSPIRATION, AND LIFE FROM THE WRITER’S PRESPECTIVE.

Her eloquent reflections on the challenges of writing, and of life, have made her a much sought-after
speaker, and her poignant first novel was published recently to national critical acclaim.

Ms Ba|dacci’s work has been favorably compared to that or her best-selling brother, David. A Sunday
Moment has been rightly described as “[a] stunning debut novel, “ and as “[e]ngaging original, and

BOOKSIGNING AND SALE FOLLOWING PROGRAM

REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED
DON’T MISS THIS CHARMING AND INSPIRATIONAL PRESENTATION!
FOR INFORMATION, CONTACT PRESTON LIBRARY (540) 464-7228

 

PRESTON LIBRARY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SHARQILBALDACCI

AMPLE FREE PARKING

 

 

THE

13163 8

  

rn.n RI}.\i{}~’lii5i\fi PHI

AST ORD

FMILYFDWARIIS

ARlS&I_lFEEDl'IOR
Em m
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

Diversity at W&L: There is more than you might think

It has been said that our school lacks diversity. The ad-
ministration has put countless man-hours into recruiting mi-
nority students especially those from foreign countries. I ap-
plaud these efforts to make our school less of a rich southern
school for elitists.

However, Washington and Lee is not quite as homog-

Hi Marshall,

How are you doing? We are all fine here. Not doing

much. ‘
One of Grandpa’s cousins and his wife from Fresno

was here forfive days. The came on the 13 of Oct. The

men went chucker hunting three days. They got eleven

enous as most of us may think. Yes, most of the ».m”_,_w__--_m_ birds. Women just goofed off mostly.
student body hails from Texas’ or somewhere in POTATOMAN We all went to Unity Lake fishing one
the south, and yes, most of us are white middle MARSHAKL RULE day. It rained all the time we was there
to upper class. But true diversity comes not in so the gals sat in the pickup. Didn’t
where we come from or what color our skin is """‘“*““‘““**——‘*“’ stay there very long. The caught five
but is instead determined by who we are inside and what trout. One day we went to Baker to the interpretive

experiences we have been through. .

My grandparents recently sent me a letter. They come
from a small farming community in eastern Oregon and have
never lived- anywhere else. The barely graduated high
school, and my grandfather actually dropped out a few times
before the football coach talked him into coming back. They
had a successful plumbing business but focused on farm-
ing. _

This letter was typed on a typewriter. Ijoke you not. It is
framed in my room and hanging out my wall. I did not change
a single thing on this letter, including spelling, lack of pro-
nouns and especially content. I have underlined a few lines to
pay special attention to.

center.
esting.

Grandpa and I have been fishing several times this
fall. Have done pretty good. Grandpa wants to go to
Hells Canyon and do some steelhead fishing when they
start running.

Went and watched Jordan play soccer yesterday. They
were in the playoffs. Her team took forth place. They
didn’t do very good, to excited I think.

Didn’t get to only one of Griffins football games this
year. Seem’s like something was always ’s going on around
here. Will try to do better next year.

Shellv said they killed a five foot rattle snake in the

First time he had been there. It was very inter-

parking lot where she works last Wed. She said they have
even had a couple of them inside the building. Come in on
loads ofstufffrom the vard. No place for me.

Grandpa is onlyfarming one field next year. Got the rest
rented out. Going to put it into alfalfa hay and sell it stand-
ing in the field. He is planning on doing a lot of camping and
fishing next summer. We have tickets to the Calgary Stam-
pede for next July. AuntArlene and her man (friend are going
also. Taking our campers and doing some fishing along the
way.

We still haven ’t sold Granpa Jenson’s house. Guess we
will come down on the price. I think maybe it’s to small for
most people. _

We had ourfirst hardfrost yesterday morning. Got down
to 22. That should stop things (weeds) from growing.

Sending you a little money to play with. Enjoy it.

Love
Grandpa and Grandma.

I love my grandparents. They are the most honest and true
people I have ever met. I am not sharing this letter with you
so that I can make fun of them. I am sharing it only to prove
that every one of us come from a place that is quite different
from W&L. The student body may mostly be white, upper-
class southerners, but we all are diverse in our own way.

Mr. Potato Man, no longer will you
“rule” the back page. I’m one sentence
into my article and I’ve already managed
to fit in a double entendre.

Your days are numbered, Idaho boy.
I’m from Wisconsin, which is a far supe-
rior place. We have corn fields, cows,
and Milwaukce’s Best....which come to
think of it, isn’t something I should lay
claim to.

But anyway, Mr. Potato Man, you
better watch out. I have
been recruited to the Phi bal-
ance out your testosterone
pumped prose, and I’ll even
use girly alliteration if it is
called for. Next week everyone is going
to read MY article first.

Everyone, if I haven’t met you, let
me make a formal introduction. I am the
girl that ate fifty—one goldfish at Tropi-
cal. Before you ask: I) Yes, it’s true. 2) I
didn’t chew. 3) No, I didn’t get a stom-
achache. Good. That’s covered now.
Please don’t ever mention it again.

Now let us progress to the more vi-
tal getting—to—know-you information. If
you haven’t bothered to
read the byline, take a sec-
ond to do so now. If you al-
ready did so, pat yourself
on the back. Good work. I’m
proud of you. No, I’m not
being sarcastic. I really am
proud! You deserve a
cookie. ~

So now that you know
my name, let me share all that other in-
formation you are simply dying to know.
I am a sophomore here at W and L. You
don’t know me? Wait! Don’t pull out the
face book just yet! You won’t find my
mug shot. I am actually a first year stu-
dent here at W & L, a transfer from

_ Dickinson College located in the lovely

city of Carlisle, PA (which is, by the way,
conveniently located near Three Mile Is-
land).

So, because l’ve had this conversa-

KRISTINE EARLY

I have always known that I
would love it here at W and
L. I made the wrong choice
not to follow my heart.
THE MILKAND CHEEJE GIRL

Never invite your Iil’ sis to the frat house

tion at least four-hundred times in the past
month, let me instruct you that now is the
proper moment to insert “So why did you
decide to transfer?” The first time some-
one asked me this question I replied with
a five minute answer, boring the poor per-
son to death I’m sure. But thank your
lucky stars, because I have got my answer
down pact by now: “I have always known
that I would love it here at W_ and L. I made
the wrong choice not to follow my heart.”

Let me
elaborate: I was six-
teen the first time I
stepped on campus.
It was Parent’s
Weekend in 2001, and I was visiting my
older brother for the weekend. My brother,
in an attempt to introduce me to college
life invited me to spendthe night at his
frat house. That night I fell in love.

My brother dragged me from fraternity
to fraternity, and at one point I stood,
completely sober (I was later to be cor-
rupted in a return visit to Lambda Chi), in
a basement flanked on all sides by sweaty,
gyrating fifty year olds. I was amused,
amazed, and to be honest,
downright disturbed, but
at that moment I realized
that there is no place on
earth quite like Washing-
ton and Lee.

It took me ,a little
extra time to get here, but
don’t worry, this year I’ll
be around to laugh at your
mom when she tries to grind with your
boyfriend.

So I’ll finish my very first article in
the Ring Tum Phi with a word of advice

for all you guys out there: Never ever in-
'vite your little sister to visit your frat

house.

In fact, to be on the safe side, don’t
even let her know that you joined one.
Leaking such knowledge can be detrimen-
tal to your sanity...oh, yeah, and to those

poor goldfish...

Get Crunk on Friday mornings

BY BLAIR CRUNK
STAFF WRITER

It is 7:25 AM on a Friday morning...you
are probably still sleeping. And I am at
work...volunteer work at that. I’m a W&L
student just like you are...and no, I don’t
have an 8:00 class. So here I sit in the
overheated WLUR studio, groggy—eyed
and exhausted, blaring music to keep my-
self awake, to keep my show alive, and I
am loving it. Every single minute. All of a
sudden, the request line starts flaring up
like a tiki torch, and so I excitedly an-
swer the phone. After all, some
hardcore student has somehow mus-
tered up‘ the strength and energy in a
hung—over state not only to turn on the
radio, but also pick up the phone and
dial the WLUR request line...at 7:25 in
the morning. This was definitely a
cause for celebration.

“Get Crunk Radio how can I help you?”
Upon not hearing an immediate response, I
repeat’ the greeting, this time a bit more impa-
tiently.

“Yes....hi...is this that there radio sta-
tion?” Great, I think to myself...l hope for
a college kid and get an old man probably
sixty years removed from his college days.

I Trying hard to keep from laughing, I re-

spond, “Well, yes sir, this is Get Crunk Ra-
dio can I play something for you?” An-
other pause. Come on, get to your point
big man. I mean, I’m all for broadcasting to
every sort of audience, but this is a college
radio station.

“Would you play me a song, son?” I
couldn’t hold it anymore and I hope he was not
offended,butIbeganto chuckle softly only
because I hope I am this witty (and half
as gutsy to call into a college radio sta-
tion) when I am his age. “Of course I
will, sir, that’s what I said. What would
you like to hear?!” He responded
quickly this time, “I want to hear some
old country!” I was amused and told
him I would do my best to fulfill his re-
quest. The oldest country I had ever
played on my show previous to this

point was probably music from the late-
nineties. But my conscious wouldn’t
let me disregard his request. On the
air, I dedicated an old Garth Brooks
tune from 1989 (the oldest track I could
find) to the local man here in Lex-Ve-
gas who so generously tuned into my
show. Sure it was fine and I didn’t
mind...but come on, this is college
radio...not Oldies 97.3. I even referred to
him on the air as “sir.”

What was I thinking? I guess Ijust
felt obliged to show the man the same
respect he showed me in listening to my
show. While the song played, I con-
templated how comical I could have
made that situation. He calls in and
asks for old country. Maybe I should
have given the same dedication to that
man but instead played a song such as
Jay—Z’s “99 Problems.” I wonder to my-
self, would he have called back and
complained? Maybe I will try that if it
happens again. A little irreverent?
Maybe. A little disrespectful? Defi-
nitely. But you can’t beat the sponta-
neity of college radio.

And there are also those calls that
I receive from friends who say “Hey
Chump, this is so—and—so from Phi Delt
and you are playing TERRIBLE music,
get some other DJ on the radio, this is
the worst music I have ever heard!”
...pause...in my mind I am thinking what
in the world is this guy talking about!?
I have never even stepped foot in the
Phi Delt house. This is the first clue
that the call is a hoax. Knowing that
its one of my friends trying to catch me
off guard, I oftentimes thank them sar-
castically for calling and hang up the
phone quite violently. And then I will
jokingly dedicate a song such as Ryan
Adams’ “Too Drunk to Dream” to the
guy from Phi Delt who called me drunk-
enly and needs more sleep. The song
will always fit the mood of the.request—
ee. It’s all in good fun, but I would ap-

preciate more...many more...legit call-
ers.

 

(I) It seems today that all you see is violence in
movies and sex on TV.

(I) You. I saw you on the Cadavers bridge. You
know who you are.

(I) What is it with freshman girls always talking 0
their cell phones in the Fitness Center? -

(I) Subaru Mike is the Man!!!! He should shoot
Subaru commercials! '

(1) Please call if you are interested in waxing Tciny’s
back: (304) 650 6904 ,

(I) Thirteen years ago Mariah Carey topped the
charts. What a difference a decade makes

<1) Fendi, Pucci, and Marc Jacobs are all owned by
Louis Vuitton. Does that strike anyone else as odd?

(I) FOX is obviously the only biased news network...
EVER... NBC, CBS, and ABC are especially not bi-
ased

(I) Props to LSU- Way to pull it out in the end. In
“The Swamp,” no less.

(I) I love this paper! I would marry the editor if I
could!

(1) Martha Stewart and West Virginia: two contra-
dicting terms. I’m sure she misses her gardening.

(I) There were scary masked, costumed people run-
ning around campus at 2am. They were loud. This
needs to stop. '

(I) Repent, for the Kingdom of God is at hand!

(I) I do not heart sketchy, smelly guys in togas. I
do, however, heart gorgeous, non-sketchy guys in
to gas.

(I) I’m a little itchy from rolling around in all the hay
Saturday night.
(I) My life is an endless innuendo.

(I) W&L Football just may be coming back. Their
second shutout in a row! Way to go, Generals!

(I) SJC? C Money, how bout dem apples?

(1) Where was the Foam at SAE? I came for the
foam and left disheartened.

(1) Why won’t Comedy Central tape more epi-
sodes of Trigger Happy TV? It’s a million times
better than Chappelle any day of the week and
Saturdays too.

(1) Happy Anniversary to the Clintons. If Bill and
Hillary can make it 29 years, it kind of gives you
hope for the future of marriage.

(I) When is Bill and Monica’s Anniversary?

(I) The Bannaconda was spotted prowling the
campus homecoming weekend. It has been fero-
ciously feeding before its hibernation.

(I) Bring on Reading Days.

(I) Srat house dessert-tasting makes me happy.
And full.

(I) To the freshman guy from Cleveland that I met
at the car bash Friday night: You were amazing in
bed, really amazing. Please call.

(I) The hottestgsenior girls live at Lodell and
Graceland

(1) Chinese fortune cookie insert of the day: “You
are almost there.”

<1) I heart google

(I) My legs are not made of tape. That is all.

(I) Check it out, check it out, check it out, check it
out!!!!!!!!

(I) The coop better start carrying salted Route 11
potato chips again or there will be a student revolt.

(I) Congratulations to Antonio Fernandez of Madrid
for winning the world Monopoly championships last
Saturday. His prize was 15,140 dollars, which is equal
to the amount of play money in the Monopoly board
game. I

(I) Congratulations to Tiger Woods on marrying a
Swedish model.

(I) Is Mount Saint Helens ever going to blow?

(I) Staying over? Don’t forget to pack your tooth-
brush.

(I) I want a cookie.
(I) I wonder if Brett Kirwarr can fill out his uniform.

(I) I wish the dining hall grilled paninis at dinner time
too.

(I) My dorm counselor is the best dorm counselor
ever! Jeb! Brooks is awesome! I

(1) Email your anonymous Quick Hits and crazy, wild
Fall Break/Reading days experiences to
phi @wlu.edu

 

     

» /rift/h
42??’/f8.755

 

THE

4.. if. '2 V-.  ~'

T/re rtrdem‘ mice of War/Iirrgion and Lee Umrerrigjl time 7897

Pro—life speaker sparks
controversy with comments

BY RoB ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRITER

Several students stormed out of the Science
Library Thursday evening, angered by the words
of conservative radio host Rev. Jesse Peterson.

Peterson’s lecture, entitled Abortion: Why
Democrats love it and Republicans hate it, spoke
out against pro-Choice advocates, Democrats, and
many prominent civil rights leaders. His visit was
co-sponsored by student organizations Contact
and Students for Life.

“The Democratic platform lacks values,” ex-
plained Peterson, a conservative Afiican—American,
“it’s anti—God and anti-farnily.”

“There is no way you can
believe in God and vote Demo-
crat,” Peterson added.

Peterson is the founder
and president of BOND: The
Brotherhood Organization of a
New Destiny, a national non-
proﬁt organization based in Los Angeles, Ca. Ac-
cording to Peterson, BOND’s mission is “Rebuild—
ing the family by rebuilding the man.”

Peterson is also host of the nationally syndi-
cated Jesse Lee Peterson Radio Show. He is the
author of several books, including SCAM — How
the Black Leadership Exploits Black America

Peterson spoke out strongly against many
civil rights leaders Thursday evening, including
Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton, and the NAACP.

“Most black Americans are suffering,” reports
Peterson, “[civil rights leaders] deliberately keep
black Americans down in order to gain more
wealth.”

Peterson said that African—Americans gener-
ally “don’t believe in themselves ... There is a lack
of moral character among the Afro-American com-
munity,” Peterson added.

Peterson was invited to W&L by a member
of Students for Life who had read some of his lit-
erature and wanted him to speak about his pro—life
views. The student’s family helped fund Peterson’s
visit. But his lecture focused speciﬁcally on the
effects of abortion on the minor-
ity community.

“There are 1,500 black ba-
bies aborted everyday in this
country,” said Peterson, a fact
which, according to Peterson,
displays the lack of character in
the black community.

Peterson believes the prob-
lem stems from the black
community’s dependence upon
the government for ﬁnancial sup-
port for the past 40 years.

“Black Americans have allowed themselves
to be used by organizations like Planned Parent-
hood  [these programs] take fathers out of the
home,” said Peterson.

Peterson alleges that many social programs,
including those put in place by the government,
won’t take care of African—Americans “unless the
man is out of the home.”

Peterson is also a strong supporter of the
Republican Party and urged the audience to think
about their vote: “It is wickedness that encour-
ages you to [have an abortion], said Peterson. “The
Republican platform supports God, country, and

“There is no way you can
believe in God and vote
Democrat.”
REv.]EssE PETERSON

“...we regret that Peterson
went off topic and
offended many members of
the community, we never
intended that to happen.”

Alexa Moutevelis A
PRESIDENT, STUDENTS FOR LIFE.

family  America is at war with [the abortion is-
sue], between good and evil.”

One of Peterson’s most controversial opin-
ions concerned his beliefs against affirmative ac-
tion. Peterson did not support preferential racial
treatment. He believes that support of racial con-
sideration in the admissions process highlights Af-
rican-American dependence on government pro-
grams.

His controversial views did not go without
opposition. After his speech, Peterson opened his
lecture to the 40—plus crowd of students, about half
of whom were African American.

Kaela Harmon ’05, disagreed with Peterson’s
outlook on the African-American community.
“[There are] systems in place
holding black people behind 
I’m not saying that the govern-
ment owes us, but blacks have
had to ﬁght for over 240 years to
gain the rights that we have to-
day.” ’

Another student challenged Peterson on the
high statistics of teenage pregnancy found in the
United States. She argued that many societies
across the world have demonstrated that sex edu-
cation has been an effective method to combat teen-
age pregnancy.

Peterson disagreed, stating, “everyone is
driven by sex because of broken families  good
parents would teach abstinence  schools teach
how to have sex.”

But when the student disagreed with him,
explaining that her public school was ineffective
because it taught only about sexual organs rather
than methods of contraception, Peterson cut her
off, and said, “see, you’re having sex.”

Doug Allen ’06 is a member of the Minority
Students Association. His reaction to Peterson’s
speech expressed his sadness and frustration: “As
a black-American, I’ve had to go farther than most
people in certain ways to get the same opportunity
for an education . . . It was insulting [for Peterson to
say] ‘that a majority of blacks lack moral charac-
ter.’” Allen said that if affirmative action looks at
more than just SAT scores and
grades to determine the quality
of a student, then he would sup-
port it. Allen added, “When you
say these things, people aren’t
going to care about abortion any-
more.”

Alexa Moutevelis is the
President of Students for Life.
She regrets that so many stu-
dents took offense to Rev.
Peterson. After the speech,
Moutevelis stated that “Peterson no longer repre-
sented the views of Students for Life, outside of
his pro—life views  we regret that Peterson went
off topic and offended many members of the com-
munity, we never intended that to happen.”

Students for Life did not receive fimding from
the Executive Committee this fall term. The EC re-
quires organizations to have a non-partisan mes-
sage in order to receive funds. Contact was the
other co-sponsor of Rev. Peterson’s lecture and
does rely on EC funds for their organization. Con-
tact has also invited Republican pundit Tucker
Carlson to be their keynote speaker. Carlson will
speak to the W&L community later this week.

/ ii ,
  , V0LUMECVHLN0«12
ONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

I////,

SH MURRAY THE RlNG—TUM PHI

THE NEXT Miss MARYLAND USA? junior Kristen Youngblood will compete in the Maryland pageant.

J uniorto compete in Md. pageant

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Kristen Youngblood ‘06
will take the stage at the Miss
Maryland USA finals in Decem-
ber, competing with over 50 other
Marylanders to attend 2005’s
Miss USA competition.

It’s not something she'd
usually do, Youngblood admit-
ted. At first, she thought, “This
is garbage.”

But something—-curiosity
perhaps—inspired her to give it
a try.

Youngblood sent in an ap-
plication and a photo and waited.
Soon after, a pageant represen-
tative scheduled an interview
within the week. Days later, she
received an invitation to the ﬁ-
nals in Chesapeake, Md.

Youngblood only entered
the “scholarship competition”
on a whim. Afarnily friend urged
her to enter a pageant for years,
telling her that most finalists
have no pageant experience. The
Bowie, Md. native still wasn’t
interested. But when her friend
wisely showed her a prize list, she
warmed up to the idea.

And well she might. Miss
Maryland USA 2004 will receive:
seven separate scholarships, a
complete set of diamond jewelry,
three outﬁts, gift certiﬁcates for
clothes and spas, beauty prod-
ucts, a luggage set, free consul-
tations with acting coaches and
self—improvement counselors,
dance training, interviews with
modeling agencies, a ski vacation
for four, electronics including a
ﬂat screen TV, DVD player, fax
machine, camera, and MP3 player,

and more.

In addition, Miss Maryland
is bound to receive numerous ap-
pearance contracts throughout
her reign of one year.

Prizes for runners—up aren’t
nearly as impressive. But as a
Maryland finalist, Youngblood
will receive beauty products as
well as free consultations with
acting coaches and cosmetic
dentists.

Last year’s Miss Maryland
USA, Tia Shorts, is a licensed
makeup artist who enjoys work-
ing with the elderly.

The Miss USA pageant,
not be confused with the Miss
America pageant, was founded
in Long Beach, Ca. 50 years ago.
Pageant winners work to support
breast cancer and AIDS research.
The current titleholder is former
Miss Missouri Shandi Finnessy.

University to hold conference on
public service Thursday, Friday

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF

STAFF WRITER

Students who are looking for help in decid-
ing to work in the public service sector need search
no further.

This Thursday and Friday, Washington and
Lee’s Project for Public Service Employment (PPSE),
will host a conference for students interested in

public service employment. The conference, en-
titled “Get Engaged! Employment in the Public Ser-
vice Sector,” is open to students who are inter-
ested in a life of public service.

Workshops will help answer common ques-
tions about working in the public service sector

See PPSE on page 2

  
 
   

C

GLOBAL SECURITY. Robert Kaplin delivers an address on global security in Lee Chapel.

ORBIN BLACKFORD / THE RING-TUM PHI

Journalist offers predictions on future security

BY LEAH KERsHAw
STAFF WRITER

Robert Kaplan’s lecture, “Global Security in 2010”,
was held in Lee Chapel on Thursday, October 21. Kaplan is
a renowned international correspondent, journalist and au-
thor. Kaplan’s visit to campus was sponsored by The
N ASDAQ/Sun Trust Program in International Finance and
Commerce and the Fishback Program for Visiting Writers.

Kaplan proposed suggestions for the operation and
administration of the US  The US Army must decen-
tralize its army to be successful. The State Department and
the Department of Defense must merge to create a united
front. Military power must be taken away from the bureau-
crats in Washington and delegated to the ofﬁcers in the
battle ﬁeld.

In the 215‘ century, the US Army is “learning how to
win wars without firing a single shot.” Instead of ﬁghting
wars for a country, the US Army must train local forces to
ﬁght in their own wars. Once the local troops are success-
fully able to ﬁght, the US Army must remove itself to the
background.

Large platoons of soldiers must be replaced with small
deployments. These “highly trained charneleon-like indi-
viduals” must establish relationships with the people and
learn the native language(s) of the country where they are
ﬁghting. These small teams of soldiers, reminiscent of Lewis
and Clark’s explorations in America, must know the terrain
of their surroundings to be most effective.

Kaplan acknowledged terrorism as a continuing prob-
lem for the world, especially in the Middle East. As the
Middle East continues to modernize, terrorism will ensue.

The “intensiﬁcation of religiosity” in the Middle East makes
the area a “fertile breeding ground for terrorism.”

Kaplan said that “humanitarian relief operations will
be integral to winning a war on terrorism.” When an organi-
zation enters a country bringing relief, people are more re-
sponsive than they would be to a military invasion. Relief
workers are able to develop personal relationships with citi-
zens, learning important information through those relation-
ships. This information can be crucial to undermining ter-
rorists’ plans.

Kaplan defended the war in Iraq, comparing Saddam
Hussein’s rule of Iraq to Joseph Stalin’s dictatorship in Rus-
sia. He said Hussein's Iraq resembled a “vast prison yard lit
up by high voltage lights.” Iraq’s transition to democracy is
slow because of the repression that Iraqi citizens lived un-
der for two decades. It will take time for Iraq’s “newly
emerged free society” to successfully function as a democ-
racy. Kaplan said that the war in Iraq provides the US with
the thankless job of providing a “security umbrella” for Iraq’s
emerging democracy.

Kaplan presented a positive view of the US Army’s
progress in Iraq. One third of the country has been a suc-
cess and another third is “on its way.” The ﬁnal third of the
country is where the problem lies. The ﬁghting is concen-
trated in this area surrounding Baghdad. Kaplan predicted
that the US Army will stage a major offense to retake this
area after the November 2"“ elections.

Professor Mark Rush, acting head of the Politics de-
partment, was impressed with Kaplan’s speech. “The talk
was disarrningly forthright.” Rush said he believes that

5“

Kaplan s predictions can be given a lot of credence.”

 

  -«*'—“-“"Wf“:"* *’.‘*“;.“~“i‘ ,
~~up§,HqN§,lj“<ON at l..lE.E. 0NllV[:l»tSU‘v

PAGE 2 ‘°ﬁE'i“?”9”élJﬁt‘5”

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

 ll;‘Rl.‘3.I—’ll 7»rl’ro
NEWS

Fall is Choral Concert

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

October heralds Domestic Violence
Awareness Month, but protecting women
is a year-round effort in Rockbridge
County.

In the past year, local citizens do-
nated almost 4000 volunteer hours to
Project Horizon, an organization dedicated
to reducing domestic, dating and sexual
violence.

“Four thousand hours is one staff
member working two years,” said Project
Horizon President Brian Richardson, “if
you think about how much it would take
to pay a staff member for two years—
that’s a lot of support.”

Originally begun in 1982, Project
Horizon wasA'a grass—roots effort to pro-
vide services to battered women. Aimed
at raising domestic violence awareness
and helping survivors of abuse, Project
Horizon has been a community endeavor
from its begimiing.

“We were offering services besides
sheltering,” Richardson said, “and had a
long time to build a base of support.”

0' KELL Boss / THE RING -TUM PHI

Chamber Singers, University Chorus, jubilee, Southern Comfort and General Admission performed their annual Fall
Choral Concert for the Lexington community last Tuesday in Lexington Presbyterian church. University Chorus is
pictured. Among the pieces they performed were Green Broom, Lay A Garland, Notre Pere and Feller from Fortune.

. 11:00 a.m.‘«-11:55 pmf

 

March 2000 saw the opening of
Lisa’s House, the Project’s shelter.
Rockbridge citizens held a capital cam-
paign to raise funds for the shelter. “The

  

        
    
   
  
 
 

    

   

   
  
 

A A  A, ,A _ A whole thing wasacommunity event,” said
.11,30_1{9oPA,§,A * A - Katie Kirby, Outreach Coordinator, “it was
   3 
2,09 A ‘ _ And volunteer presence has not di-

. pm-3.00pm . . .
3_AO0_A3A55 m-AA. A AA mrrushed. From5to l0p.m.everyevemng,

‘A - " P e j the shelter is run entirely by volunteers.

A “We can’t adequately run without the

 A-A  . 0 I community’s he1p,”Kirby said. During the

3?39Pm. j"   A A  V  A  -   , A    school year a majority of the volunteers

4100~4I55Apm_ ’R€8i1m¢Wti1i11Ag '  ,A '  C‘a22z:zzonx274  A are students, Richardson said, “it’s a lot

. V , . ~   ’ *3  A A AAtie-(39);, UnA13aersi§VCaxeeArSezt<ices. . .  _A of W&L students and a few from SVU.”

I s=1s—6:30:m::   :3 I  andtrnecmxacular oppanunmes cf’  wazcfféiz .. A During the summer it’s, “mostly people
7:00pm ‘ ,  ; ‘ I)a£1_  gs1§;,Acaon Without Borders/Idea;1ist.o:g AA , 'Ac';»fw»:ow rm» from the community.” he said.

8:30pm A ' '  f Public Service Employment  A  "A A tfgmzraanx Tbgrifef. A Kelly Legg , a Washington and Lee

junior, volunteers about 10 hours to Project
Horizon each week and has worked there
since September 2002.

“I have remained there because I
truly respect the staff and the work that

PPSE

FROM PAGE 1

 

1V.:f':‘:§ck2:r is.....s....:;..... Nmgpgga; Man: 
' . A  Rea} aigout Boards A A . A . .
A ' " ‘ »Aré£eiAnswers.:o your Hard Questions. C.o_mzzon:.2‘7-.,6  I

90:06: am, 4    I  345   ‘L  .

      
  

  

 am. ._-  a.rA:d 

 

Cammazré   " A

   
     

:..h-Proﬁt Secret 

     

 
   

    
 

. . . I I r«*on;-  r2:oo.r:oc   * 
  $ea;c1;:.‘How to use IAdealist.org arrdrzwre   .6013
‘rm           cmaw345
A VVorK.f9rAmerica'A   A ' . Commons 216"?
ssful Entrepreneur 8:  cm i am. 214:
. . _  r A _ 27

   
   
 

,goa+caaa1_ 

 
 

leader.

    
       
         
    

   
 

 

   

“Probably answering “How to walk from

“D01” d0 anything “That if you have
wrong.” the questions, and oonﬁdonoo, you oan Davidson Park to the skills, and we’re all about how hot you
-Jake BIOWII ‘03 that’s about it.” go anywhoroj’ quad in heels.” pretty politically are, rjght?___” A
"Lana King ‘08 -Kah Ndi ‘07 ‘N 10016 Conkling ‘08 aware.” -Laurence McKenny ‘05
-Annie Vliegenthart ‘O8

“Deﬁnitely social

Local citizens support Project

they do. I enjoy being a part of a group
that works so hard to help so many women
and children when they need help the
most,” Legg said.

Legg learns from Project Horizon’s
victims. “While I cannot change their cur-
rent situation or even guarantee that they
will never need to seek a shelter again, I
can listen and support them in that mo-

ment,” she said, “They have taught me » - ~

what it means to take life one day at a time.
Law enforcement ofﬁcials also ac-
tively work with Project Horizon, illustrat-

ing another way the shelter is interdepen— _ ~ A

dent with the community. “It’s a very good
program that they have,” said Officer Doug
Pugh of the Buena Vista police force. Vic-
tims appreciate the “emotional support”
that Project Horizon provides, Pugh said.

Project Horizon runs on a $400,000
budget, “and every year we have to ﬁgure
out how to get money,” said Judy Casteele,
Executive Director.

Much of the Project’s funding, about
two—thirds, comes from state and federal
grants, according to Casteele. A small
amount, about $20,000, comes from local
government, with the rest of the Project’s
funding coming from local individuals and
organizations.

Project Horizon receives $32,000 in
grants from the Department of Housing and
Urban Development. This funding is in
jeopardy because HUD requires all orga-
nizations that receive its grant money to
enter the names of clients in the HUD hu-
man tracking system. Project Horizon pro-
tests such a database for victims of do-
mestic violence.

Earlier this month, Project Horizon
joined an effort to protest HUD’s policy.
The Project asked citizens to call the White
House and speak out against HUD’s hu-
man tracking system on October 7.

“The goal is for the White House to
receive thousands of calls on October 7th
and for Americans to continue calling the
White House until HUD ﬁxes this devas-
tating problem for victims of domestic vio-
lence,” said Casteele.

such as “Will I be able to pay my bills?” or “How will working in the public service
sector affect my plans for law or graduate school?” Other workshops will teach stu-
dents about how to write the perfect resume, how to interview well, how to ﬁnd a public
service job, and how to get started with public service on campus. Other workshops will
feature lectures on grant writing, fund raising, and how to be a successful community

PPSE encourages students to register for the conference by Mon., Oct. 25. The
registration form as well as a full conference schedule and description of workshops
can be found at http2//ppse.wlu.edu/events/conference.htm. _

If you need more beef, this is a little more information on PPSE:

The PPSE matches Washington and Lee graduates with “paid positions with
innovative public service organizations addressing signiﬁcant social issues such as
healthcare, law, education, economic development and housing.”

TALKBACK: A W&L girlis competing for Miss Maryland USA. What has W&L taught her?

  

 

“Well, a pageant’s all

 

Blue Billue
Auto center

is now a 

A smmmrmansmame
to mom oammun or sump: mu 4» not 4» instant mmuarm e
ewnmraa ‘mu 4:» umu. an 4 on menus: in»

-<*v~a>>m
zmmgom-*:>:

 

Giﬂi}-[l‘st§'7I|A~: for“ .21 §’!‘l'iII.”€;1 tit 

 

A name Vast! um :11  '
Slim Ridge Mill) neuter
I-ma 'ﬁ!3§—IIﬁ=|ia nu‘wrre ~mama:a ‘meta. tam 559-263-9311

.A 5-Wﬁii'h!h'I§&%&‘55\Eiﬁisi$¥%%$?§I&5§W:$%'¥H%§&¥’i¥$%§§§k%%‘5§Hﬁﬂﬁﬁiﬁz

 
    
    

Gram] [lugging E" "i”“i3i§'7$YiI:ia"ﬁ”"‘; 
Snaciats   I m”Wi'“W"W“'  “""*‘."' .
. am [rt immnat swam

pumauwannuus-uwvvuun»sn<amw»un’swn:unmn-man.

Take
pics
for

US

  
 

  

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004 0

IEI‘;RIN<:;-iaII.IPHI
STARE EDITORIAL
Registration for sections a must

Reprinted from the May 17, 2004 is-
sue. We still believe that this is an impor-
tant issue that needs to be addressed.

Registration starts next week. We at
the Phi want to know why we can not reg-
ister for specific sections of a class.

When we register for classes, we tell
the registrar over the internet what we
want to take. Then we anxiously wait for
the moment schedules are available on-
line. The problem with this system is that
every student at W&L is unique. Some of
us here at the Phi, for example, are night
people while fewer of us are morning
people. Different people perform better at
certain times of the day.

Since we do not know what section
we are in until right before classes start,
we have no time to change them. Often,
professors will not even allow students
to change class sections. Some of us have
tried to change sections, but were told that
we have to stay in that 8 a.m. class. Oth-
ers who perform better in the morning get
stuck in 3-5 p.m. classes. By the time you
get out of class in the winter it is already
dark.

If registration changed, students
could not complain about not making it to
class because it was too early or too late.
They also could not complain about the
professor they are taking because they
hand-picked her.

Competition among faculty members
to attract students to their section is a
good thing. It would only improve teach-
ing at Washington and Lee. For example,
if no one is registering for Professor

iJones’s section, he can ask the popular
Professor Smith what he can do to improve
his teaching and attract more students.

We believe that a registration system
where a student registers not only for a
class, but also a section is the best alter-
native. Students who want to be in the 8
a.m. classes will be able to take them and
those who want to take all their classes in
the afternoon can as well. This market
based approach would be more effective
than a thousand end of class evalua-
tions.

   

te of the Week

“Honor [a W&L] will be bargained away
within 50 years.’”

~Anonyrnous W&L Professor

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Copy Editors Dane Boston
Shane Wilson

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—twn Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060

Fax: (540) 458-4059

Email: phi @wlu.edu

Subscription rate $40

CAIEYANDERSON
OPINIONSEDIIOR

EMAIL ‘EDU

 

PAGE 3

Executive Committee must publish
members’ votes in all non—Honor matters

A couple of weeks ago, the EC had votes
on two student-proposed amendments to the
White Book. The first, proposed by alum Brett
Kirwan, aimed at requiring EC closed hearing
votes to be unanimous in order to create a find-
ing of guilt in an Honor Violation. The second,
proposed by senior Kelly Jo Larsen, wanted to
strike the’ words “lying, cheating and stealing”
from the introductory section, arguing that such
a list is a codification of the Honor System. The
first amendment, to force una-
nimity for guilty verdicts, was
unanimously voted down.
The second amendment, to
strike “lying, cheating and
stealing,” garnered four aye
votes, from senior rep Thomas Worthy, senior
rep Noble Stafford, second-year law rep Dannel
Duddy, and Vice President Cristin Nunez (a se-
nior). Voting against the latter amendment were
freshman rep Margaret Elkins, sophomore rep
Lane Morgan, sophomore rep David Colman,
junior rep Wheeler Sparks, junior rep Charlie
Yates, first-year law rep Craig Hensel, third—year
law rep Marc Granger, Secretary Justin Arnold
(a third—year law student), and President Marie
Trimble (a senior).

The funny thing about this is that, unless
you were at the relevant meeting, you probably
didn’t know of these vote tallies until you read

MODERAIE’s MUSINGS
CAIEY ANDERSON ‘O6

them just now. The Executive Committee, in
their report of the minutes from that meeting,
did not state who voted for what. While the
Committee did report, in those minutes, that the
two proposed amendments were brought up,
discussed, and voted on, the summary of the
amendments’ fate was a simple “...did not pass
on first reading.” I hope I will be considered
rational when I suggest that this is insufficient.

One of the only matters for which the EC does
create such postings of which
members voted for what are for
EC appointments to lesser stu-
dent government committees
and the like. They’ll announce
who got the office, and then list
the EC members who voted for the appointment
of that individual. But this is far from the only
matter the EC considers in public, and certainly
most students would think it’s notthe most im-
portant. Why the strange exclusion of vote
tallies on most other student matters?

I think the EC ought to make a point, from
now on, of publishing how individual members
vote on matters that are considered in open ses-
sion (those parts of EC meetings which are open
to the public). The EC is, after all, a representa-
tive body elected by the students, and thus it’s
important that students know how particular
members of the EC feel about one issue or an-

other. -When I, or any other member of the stu-
dent body, goes to vote for EC candidates, we
should know how our incumbents have voted
on issues that we care about. It is simply not
feasible for most students, given their busy lives
here at the University, to attend the 7:30 Mon-
day meetings of the EC (sorority women often
find it impossible to ever attend, as chapter meet-
ings are almost always at a similar time). Most
students, I would guess, gain knowledge of EC
proceedings through the postings that the EC
makes of its minutes, its budgetary allocations,
and its guilty verdicts in Honor Violation closed
hearings.

Now, I fully agree that closed hearings
votes, along with all the other aspects of closed
hearings, ought to remain secret. And I under-
stand that the deliberations that produce the
budget allocations are more a complicated at-
tempt to reach a consensus rather than black
and white “yes” vs. “no” votes. But don’t we
deserve the extra couple of lines of ink it takes
to print the votes of the members? This really
is something ought to know about.

Hopefully this is just something the Com-
mittee overlooked, they do have a lot on their
minds. Still, I think it’s important enough an
oversight to correct. Knowing how one’s
elected representatives voted is critical for the
health of our student government system.

Clouds of smoke: N onsmokers have rights too

When I first saw that President Burish had banned smoking in
the dorms, I was ecstatic. After moving in freshman year and going
over the rules with my dorm counselor, I was confused about why
burning a candle was considered dangerous and against the rules
while smoking was not. It seemed that having a candle burning was
no more dangerous than having a burning cigarette in terms of fire
danger. I was also hoping that the new rules would discourage stu-
dents from smoking all together. I’m not really sure why our genera-
tion started smoking in the first place. By the time we were born, it
was a well known fact that smoking was dangerous to our health and
could cause cancer. Many of us
also grew up during the cam-
paign that told us that smoking
isn’t cool. Although, I’m not re-
ally sure why we would ever
think that something cancerous would be cool in the
first place. No matter the reason for beginning to smoke, people know
that they are risking their own health. While I think it would be good
if people didn’t smoke, I realize that their health is none of my busi-
ness and they should be able to risk it if they want to.

So after the new rule, I was looking forward to not having to
smell smoke in the halls and stairways of the freshman dorm. Little
did I know that there would be consequences that I hadn’t predicted.
As spring arrived and the temperature rose, more and more people
would gather on the stoops of the freshman dorms and smoke to-
gether. Because it was hot, the windows were often left open in the
stairwells and the smoke would just drift right in. I was pretty happy
to go during summer break to some clean air, but I recognized that
there isn’t a lot I could do about the smokers on campus.

Coming back after summer break, it seems like there are more and

IN THE IRONS
CARIssA SHIRLEY ‘O7

' more people on campus who smoke. I tend to be pretty aware of them

because I struggled with asthma and allergies and still get very irri-
tated by smoke. I’ve tried not to let it bother me by avoiding people
who are smoking, but sometimes, they are totally unavoidable. How-
ever, it seems like smokers have taken over, and its getting harder
and harder to avoid them. There are students walking down the col-
onnade smoking between classes, faculty smoking outside of the
front door to their building, and people smoking on benches every-
where in between. I think there needs to be one place on campus
where people can smoke because I’m sick of smelling it. Not only are
smokers jeopardizing their health, but they are jeopardizing other
people’s health, too. The worst is when a student smokes before
class then sits down right next to you in class. There is no escape
from the 55 minutes of sickening smell. People should quit smoking
for themselves, not for someone else, but in the mean time, would a
little consideration for non—smokers kill them?

photo mnrtegi of /4penn.e,dn

AHEM. Smoking is seemingly on the rise at Washington and Lee. While we
know this is Virginia, could we show a little love for the non-smokers?

 

BoSox - T Everyone who’s not from New York or New Jersey has to be pretty
happy with the comeback. But then, if you’re from New York or New Jersey,
and you’re at W&L, you’ve probably got other things to worry about anyway.

StemmomPla7a— 1, Look, people, the place clearly isn’t intended for auto-
mobiles.

Pyongyang Vs. Washington- -17 “We’ll disarm when you promise not to
attack.” “No, we’ll promise not to attack when you disarm.” Soon, they’ll be
calling each other “stupidhead,” in an escalation that will only end when one,
deeply wounded, runs off, screaming “I’m telling!” Meanwhile, nukes are
being built for no defensible reason. Grow up.

Speaking 'll‘adition-  It’s not pretty out there, a sad sight (or lack thereof)
for us W&L purists. I give it ten more years, tops. Indulge the bitterness by
listening to Gwen Stefani croon “Don’t Speak,” then cathartically set your
freshman year SPEAK shirt ablaze, sobbing quietly to yourself.

Football- T Holy crap. I know Guilford isn’t so hot this year, but still.

Winter- T Apparently it starts in early October now.

Ups and Downs

This week, Opinions Editor Caley Anderson presents, in honor of Election
2004 the Decisive Episode, with only ups or downs, no side—to—sides.

 

Campus Notices- 1, We have two very ﬁne newspapers at this Univer-
sity for you to write opinions and letters to the editor to. Campus Notices
is NOT for huge election year rants, dammit.

NHL- ,1, Ifyou thought the 1994 Baseball Strike was bad....

Infectious Diseases-  Sickness goes through W&L like wildfire.
But this year is nothing compared to the great mono plague of aught-
tW0.

Washington Redskins Election Forecast- T Want to know who’s
going to win on Nov. 2? Watch the Skins battle the Pack on Oct. 31. For
nearly a century, an unbroken streak has run thusly: A Skins victory
means the party currently in the White House gets to stay in power, while
defeat means a takeover. YD better wear Favre jerseys for Halloween.

Funny Pages- 1» While hungry, funny young cartoonists starve,
Marmaduke, Dennis the Menace, reruns of Peanuts, and ::shudder:: FAM-
HX CIRCUS continue to stink the papers of America up.

NASCAR on Co-Op TV 1. Man, I feel hicky enough already.

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4

 



Diversity and tolerance
doesn’t mean we
should dissolve differences

Last year, when I was a fresh-
man, I was told that “race relations”
at W&L would not improve until
“people step outside of their com-
fort zones” and “accept diversity.”
While I’m sure the

what the people who ask this ques-
tion fail to realize is that there are
far more tables of white students sit-
ting together. Why do girls sit to-
gether? Why do people who play

the same sport sit to-

person who told me REFLECTIONS gether? Why do
this had good in- ‘ people in the same
tentions it is worth MARCASBANKS  fraternity or sorority

noting that this par- V
ticular student, who was a self-de-
scribed advocate for diversity, did
not belong to a single ‘fminority”/
multicultural/diversity focused or-
ganization. After thinking about it
more, I realized that this phenom-
enon is not limited to this student
but to the entire student body.

I have often heard people say
how much they support the diversi-
fication of W&L but when it comes
to proving what they say their ac-
tions leave much to be desired. I
know what you may be thinking; just
because a person says they support
diversity does not necessarily mean
that they have to belong to a “mi—
nority”/multicultural/diversity fo-
cused organization. Not all of the
republicans join College Republi-
cans, not all of the democrats join
Young Democrats, not all of the
people who can sing join a singing
group, and not all of the
multicultural students join
multicultural organizations, so why
should people who support diver-
sity be required to join an organiza-
tion for that purpose? Do not get
me wrong, this is not at all what I
am saying. I am only trying to show
that I have had conversations with
people who have droned on and on
about how they support diversity
and how it is such a good thing but
when asked why they don’t belong
to a multicultural organization they
suddenly get very quiet.

Some people I have‘ talked to
have said that they didn’t know the
organizations were inclusive, or
they thought that they would not
be welcomed. Specifically in con-
versations that I have had this is
usually when people ask “Why do
all the black students sit together?”
Although this a valid question,

sit together? Why?
They sit together because they all
have something in common that con-
nects them. Especially during meal
times people just want to “kick back
and relax” and have a good time so
it is only natural that a person would
seek out a group of people with
whom they can most easily do this.
When people do this they are not
saying they do not support diver-
sity or that they wish to segregate
themselves but rather that they
looked around, judged who they feel
most comfortable sitting with and
made a decision based on those cri-
teria.

Diversity is more than just hav-
ing people on campus who look dif-
ferently. It is also about exposing
the campus to the differences people
have. I find it interesting, though
not a surprise, that people ﬂock to
parties and social events but are no
where to be found when there is a
cultural event on campus. If a per-
son truly supports diversity, what
they are saying is that they truly
support knowledge, knowledge
about other cultures and their his-
tory. We should not exclude differ-
ences but accept them and move on
because we have more in common
than we have differences. The
multicultural organizations on cam-
pus are striving to‘ make W&L a
place not only where people support
diversity but a place where diversity
is able to thrive. So if diversity/
multiculturalism is an issue that is
very salient to you, please consider
joining a multicultural organization
so you can have an impact on the
W&L community and ensure that the
campus is a place where everyone’,
regardless of the amount of melanin
they possess, is able to feel com-
fortable.

Phi Quick Poll

A Quick Note on Quick Poll Methodology- This poll
is scientiﬁcally accurate.. Students are randomly selected
from the University Directory, and then contacted for their
opinion. Using rudimentary statistical theory, the pollster
then compiles the percentages, the margin of error, and the
degree of conﬁdence. Results from this poll should be
considered statistically valid, and representative of the
Washington and Lee Student Body.

 

“Of Left, Left Center, Center, Right Center, and Right, which most
accurately describes your political views?”

LEFT
15°/0

LEFT

27%

CENTER
7%

RIGHT
10°/o

RIGHT

41%

 

MONDAY, OCroBER 25, 2004

Junior Jadakiss Junkie

oﬁers W&L version of “Why?”

) P 0?‘?-£0t{7'fl:A 0],‘ 0% ranarzitom

FOR SAND USE ONLY. We know it’s \X/ashington and Lee, but must sandals and flip ﬂops continue to dominate on into November?

By now most of you have heard or at least heard of

the song Why by rap artist Jadakiss. In this song he asks
questions about the nation and American society. Well
fellow pursuers of higher educa-
tion, I too have some burning
questions for our beloved cam-

WHY?
pus. And so without further ado, KRISTIN EVANS ‘()6

here is my version of the song Why.

Why do people wear ﬂip ﬂops in the winter?

Why isn’t anyone in Lexington riding on spinners?
Why did they add a new course for majors in the c-
school?

And why is being conservative on this campus oh so
“cool?”

Why is the speaking tradition dying fast?

And why is it acceptable to get up from a café table but
leave all of your trash?

Why do we throw the word “minority” around?

And why are there so many university cards in the lost
and found?

Why do we claim to want diversity but when speakers
come nobody shows up?

Right of assembly not currently ttreatened

When you are thirsty and out on a Saturday night why
can’t you ever find a clean cup?

Why did this kid in class act like he’d never heard rap
before?

And why did I see that same boy blaring L’il
Jon in his car?

Why don’t we observe Dr. Martin Luther King
Jr.’s birthday?

And when I ask about the confederate ﬂag, why
is tradition the only thing that anyone can say?

Why is expressing my opinion so controversial?

And ifl don’t want to party why am I labeled as “antiso—
cial”? Why? I

All these credits that I’m earning,

what’s the true worth of higher learning?
Hope I’m not caught up in the system.
Why does it have to be like that?

Try to just live my way,

seems like it’s go Greek or hit the highway,
why, oh why?

Just food for thought.

by

Patriot Act, other Homeland Security legislation

The right of Americans to peaceably assemble has
always been fiercely defended. However, in light of
the current political situation, one can’t help but won-
der: are the defenders of civil liberties leaving them-
selves defenseless?

Protesters planning to gather against a U.S. train-
ing academy for Latin American soldiers cried a cheer
of victory this week when an 11”‘
Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that
metal detectors at a protest may be
unconstitutional.

The protesters took the case to
court, saying that the metal detectors were essen-
tially the government’s excuse to search them, and
control their protest. The Court, ruling in their favor,
cited the possible indefinite war on terror, saying that
civil liberties could not be suspended with no end in
sight.

The protesters (and the media) celebrate this as yet
another victory in the cause of protecting sacred con-
stitutional rights. But are we really seeing the whole
picture?

The truth is, these protesters are the same who as-
sembled in outrage after the towers fell on September
11, 2001. Then, just three short years ago, they de-
cried the government’s lack of protection. The gen-
eral sentiment was, it’s your job to protect us, why
aren’t you doing it?

In response, the administration adopted the airline
regulations, the Patriot Act, and new policies for pro-
tests. The general agitators would have you believe
that government agents patrol the protests, search-

INTRODUCING
KATHERINE GREENE ‘O8

ing people without reason, silencing their message,
hindering their freedom.

In fact, the metal detectors are not an entirely new
process for holding a protest outside a vulnerable
military institution, especially not during a time of
war. What do the protesters have to hide?

In removing these protective measures,
the protesters are turning a blind eye to-
wards the political arena in the same way,
they say, the government did three years
ago. Protests such as these make prime
breeding ground for terrorist operations:
close quarters with a military weak-spot, a crowd in
which to hide, and plenty of national attention. The
metal detectors were simply a very basic method of
applying a marginal form of security for not only the
military base, but also, the protesters themselves.

Ultimately, they really don’t have anything to hide.
And chances are, most of them in the crowd wouldn’t
agree with the terrorist who could potentially enter
the crowd and launch an attack.

What it comes down to is numbers. The metal de-
tector and possible search guidelines would deter
some people from attending the protest, whose suc-
cess relies entirely in numbers.

But what message are the protesters sending here?
They need to decide on a goal. Would they prefer
protection or vulnerability? Regulation or freedom?

Rather than just attacking whatever decision the ad-
ministration makes, they need to choose a cause and
stand behind it. That is what the Constitution truly
provides.

Write Opinions for the Ring-tum Phi

The Phi is currently accepting new opinions writers. If you’re interested in

editorial journalism, then e—mail Opinions editor Caley Anderson at
Andersonc@wlu.edu, or e—mail phi@wlu.edu.

‘l’<l><1><l>¢

 

  

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004



' PAGE 5

Hagerman captures ITA D-III title

Becomes ﬁrst woman tennis player to win a national sing/es championship in

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

With scathing footwork, de-
cisive volleys, and biting ap-
proach shots, senior Lindsay
Hagerman captured the ITA Di-
vision HI singles championship.

The tournament took place
at Florida Gulf Coast University
over Reading Days. She qualiﬁed
for the National Small College
Championship by taking first in
regional competition, and went
into the competition as the num-
ber one seed.

Soundly defeating her first
several opponents, Hagerman
easily advanced to the champi-
onship round. She downed Liz
Bondi of DePauw University in a
hard-fought match that ended
with Hagerman on top, 6-3, 7-6
(5)-

With this victory, Hagerman
became the first woman’s tennis
player to win a national singles
championship in W&L history.
She also advanced to the Small
College Super Bowl, where she
met Division II champion, Jing
ling Liu of BYU-Hawaii.

After being down early,
Hagerman won the match by de-
fault and advanced to the super
bowl ﬁnals. In the championship
match, Hagerman lost to Larikah
Russell of Southern Nazarene.
Her overall record this season is
13-1. She is ranked third all-tirne
at W&L with 93 singles victories.

The daughter of a tennis in-
structor, Hagerrnan began play-

  

 

FILE PHOTO / RING-TUM PHI

MORE THAN JUST A TENNIS sTAR. Lindsay Hagerman, Division III
tennis singles charrrpion and dorm counselor, is pictured with seven

of her 25 freshmen ladies.

ing tennis at a young age. “I was
on the court as soon as I could
hold a racket,” she said. With
two younger sisters who play,
the game was more than just com-
petition; it was a family event. At
Highland Park high school in
Dallas, Lindsay played for fresh-
man and part of sophomore year.
She left in order to focus on
USTA tournaments.

In coming to Washington
and Lee, Hagerman played a cru-
cial role from day one. Not only
did she dominate on the court,
she also played a leadership role
and provided an example of an
intense work ethic.

Over her four years,
Hagerman was named an All-
American six times for both
doubles and singles. She won
Academic All-American honors
numerous times, and in her jun-
ior year was named ODAC Player
of the Year.

Although she is proud of her
own accolades, her real excite-
ment comes from her team’s
achievement. They have placed
in the top ﬁve each year at Divi-
sion IH nationals, and have domi-
nated the ODAC conference.
Hagerman’s goals for this year are
to win the national championship

‘ and to ﬁnish strong as a senior.

  
   

W&L history

Both seem likely. “This year, I
think that we have the strongest
team yet, and we have a good
chance of winning nationals,”
said Hagerman. As captain, she
has taken the role of motivating
the team to practice hard and
play well.

Her tennis success did not
come easy. For Hagerman, ten-
nis is a year long sport with prac-
tices, running, work-outs, and
drills taking up several hours a
day. Despite her packed sched-
ule, Hagerman finds time to excel
at acaderrrics. On top of that, she
is a Dorm Counselor, a student-
atlrlete mentor, and a member of
GSA. Hagerman plans to go to
school for a Master’s degree in
history. After graduating, she
would like to become a teacher
in a middle or secondary school.
Although going pro is not in her
future, she wants to play in tour-
naments and stay competitive in
tennis.

Hagerrnan’s favorite player
and tennis role model is Monica
Seles, who, like Lindsay, hits with
two hands on both sides. Be-
sides admiring her game, she also
is impressed by Seles’s resiliency

‘ in overcoming a potentially ca-

reer-ending stabbing.

Though her tennis skills awe
her fans, it is Hagernran’s ener-
getic personality and unfailing
kindness that make her a truly
amazing person. Her talent and
zest for life make her not only an
attribute to the W&L community,
but also a wonderful Dorm Coun-
selor, classmate and friend.

Men’s Soccer team ﬁghts in vain

BY JOHN BovAY
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team hosted ODAC
rival Virginia Wesleyan on Satur-

’ day, but fell short in a hard-fought

match.

The game started slowly, al-
though intensity was high
throughout the afternoon. The
ﬁrst half yielded only two shots
by each team, and the score was
tied 0-0 at halftime.

In the second half, the Mar-
lins scored two early goals that
seemed to kill momentum for the
Generals, but W&L fought back
hard, unwilling to let up so eas-
ily. Within six minutes, the game
was tied after goals from senior
captain Justin Mygatt, assisted
by another senior captain, Peter
Miller, off senior midﬁelder Brian
Pirkle’s comer kick; and freshman
forward Jack Palmer’s goal, a shot
into the back of the net after a
pass from Pirkle.

After the Generals tied it up,

the teams began to fight even
harder, resulting in a yellow card
for both teams.

Questionable officiating
made the game more interesting,
as fans from both sides disputed
the referee’s calls. In particular,

W&L ‘took one shot that seemed‘

to go in the goal and then bounce
out, that would have given the
team a 3-2 advantage. When
VaWes freshman Damien
Woodley scored his second goal
of the game with less than 4 min-
utes to play, the Generals tried to

mount a last-second surge but
fell short, losing another great
game in the W&L-VaWes rivalry.
Washington and Lee’s record is
now 5-6-3 (2-3-3 in ODAC); Vir-
ginia Wesleyan improved to 9-5-
2 (5-2-1 ODAC)

The Generals’ last regular
season game is on Tuesday,
when they host Lynchburg at
4:00. ODAC tournament play
commences on Saturday, when
the Generals will travel, likely ei-
ther to Bridgewater or to face Vir-
ginia Wesleyan again.

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

I’ve had writer’s block
now for a good hour. And it‘s
all because my greatest muse
for sport’s writing, anger, is
missing. I’ve realized that for
possibly the first time in my
life, I’m not passionately an-
gry about something in the
sports world.

Sure, I still have little
grudges that I hold on to. I
don’t like the DH, and I think
the system of allowing the AH
Star game to decide home ﬁeld
advantage is a little strange
(Random Drunk Guy at Cave-
man: I think in order to make

- the All Star game mean some-
thing, they should take a
player away from the losing
team for the season. . . .and ev-
ery year it should be Bonds.)
But these issues are all petty, I
can deal with that. I think it
must just be the fact that jus-
tice has been served.

For starters, the Yankees
lost in possibly the most em-
barrassing fashion possible.
As I reread my column from
last week about the curse, I
realized that even my movie-
like scenario was not as excit-
ing as what happened in real
life.

I say justice has been
served because they didn’t
deserve it for the years their
players had. Sheffield, ARod,
Giarnbi, Jeter, Posada, Loaiza,
Mussina, and Brown all had
disappointing
seasons....emphasis on
Giambi. While they had a great
roster, they didn’t have chem-
istry and none of their players
fulﬁlled expectations with the
exception of Hideki Matsui
and Mariano Rivera.

And as you may or may
not know, I hate the Yankees
and the Red Sox are my sec-
ond favorite team. And now
the teams with the second and
third most history (to the Yan-
kees, and shut up Cubs fans
you don’t have a claim here)

Gritter not angry
at world of sports

square off in what should be a
high scoring series.

Then I begin to think
about basketball, and all I can
think of is Shaq and how much
I love him. It’s funny how his
pathetic jokes were so irritat-
ing with the Lakers, but so
funny now that he’s with the
Heat. In a matter of seconds,
after I heard of the trade, he
went from my most hated bas-
ketball player to my favorite.

Then what makes this
even more exciting is that ﬁ-
nally basketball season will
not be interrupted at all by
hockey. No longer will I be en-
joying football and basketball
highlights on Sportscenter to
have my time wasted by
hockey. The only thing that
should make top plays from
hockey is one of those amaz-
ing falling—down-getting-hit-
while—shooting goals, or an ac-
robatic save.

And ﬁnally we come to
football, where I must first in-
form you of my opinion about
team success. If my team isn’t
going to compete for a cham-
pionship, I want them to be ab-
solutely horrible, to ensure the
best draft pick. And that’s why
I’ m actually rather pleased that
the Fins are 0-6, cuz they’ve
been incredibly frustrating to
root for my whole life, and now
we’ll ﬁnally have an exciting
first round pick next
year. . ..assuming we don’t do
something stupid.

The prospect of us draft-
ing a skill position player in the
first 5 picks just makes me
giddy, could we even possibly
draft a quarterback for once
instead of signing" other
peoples’ backups?

So in conclusion we get
to watch a satisfying World Se-
ries to ﬁnish up the Baseball!
Football season (my personal
favorite) and transition
smoothly into what should be
a Shaqfilled Basketball/Foot-
ball season for me. This is the
most wonderful time of the
year.

fy.,‘VFi€Id:;fi0CkBY  _
f;-at LyrrcIiburg—«t~:3G

Wednesday

' M Soccer
at Emory and Henry--4
' W Soccer vs. Hollins--4:30

‘TOW    

  

Fnday
' Volleyball at
Emory Invitational--4:30
‘ Field Hockey at
Eastern Mennonite--5:30

 
   
   

in W‘-Seesaw.  . .
;   Wesieyanéiir, I
‘ 7'.;‘V<>lieYbe1_¥at Tlmortr .j

:mi:aapaar;2 ,

  WPd®ei.$rh¢r*%1'»1t

 

  
 
 

 cmaegisao “ :i if

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowan——l

SINCE

1897

   
  

THE RETU RN 0?‘

WEE

  

($40) 464-2253

COSTUME PARTY Oct. 31
2-6 p.m., ages 2-12, Toy Museum; 540-458-3772

li@,§c'rtt I

for EACH member of your
group wéth this coupon I:

www.naturaibri¢lgeva.com

new nus YEAR....THE uvms ronso: “"“*”"'"

(ms Realty Ame)

. ce$FEATURiNG%a»

so HMJNTEB ﬂ0N5TER
MUSEUM 7-10 pm

‘I’ DARK IAAZE
lscamiea)

  

ocr. 21-23 and ocr. 23-31 "'m=.Axotrr ma:-:31
at   ggyugwj Psycuo Room

' ‘L00 OFF

" I I

: Abmissioﬂ | spasm. meets
I

I \IO(NEW)

I an-o(NEWl

RETAIL 800?)!
Sponsored by:

(aaatél. ...'...,'m @

  
  

 

   

of Historic Lexington, WI

Thursday, October 28“‘
through
Sunday, October 31“
TOURS Bl‘-ZGI.\" AT 8:30

EVERY ‘s.\.'=IGleIT
* ‘k * it * * * it * *

7:00pm Tours Also

on Friday 29"‘
and on Saturday 30'"
****&*****

RESERVATKJNS REQUIRED

540.464.2250

 
       

  
  

  

r».,yg
,3‘.

        

  
     
       
 

2.2-: 2;": i:»:sreuua:.a.i:n«l‘r:: 

    

' Eat your greens

  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Rapliine Road
Rnpline, VA 24472
540-348-5220 - l-8T7-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

CﬂforworksI1op&dassiii{oI'nIIﬂon.

   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
 

Halfway between ltxington and Slaunton
On I8! / I-64 or exit 205. Raphin; 4nu‘Ier west on
Route 606. Raphine RM /mm/M a woriing
farm that oﬂirrs "U-PICK" opponunitie: for fresh
fmir when in season

'llIes-Sat 10:00-5:00,Weduntil8:00
zmoxsxarnshnncoiu

   

  

Wash your
hands

(I><I><I)<D(I><D<I><I>(I><I)<I><I>(D(I>d><I>(D<D<D(I>(D<I><I5<I>

wvvw.ststravel.com.

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or

Panama

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party
Cruise! V
5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica

From $459

City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTravel.com

1-800-678-6386

    

PAGE 6

 tzaftm. :-In 

    
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 

BY Two DEAD GUYS
ULTIMATE FRJSBEE TEAM

Can you remember the last-
time a team from W&L almost
toppled an ACC powerhouse?
Do you even recall" the last time a
team from W&L even took the
same playing ﬁeld as a team from
a huge D1 program? Well over
Reading Days, a certain team
from W&L did just that.

Two Dead Guys, W&L’s Ul-
timate Frisbee club team, partici-
pated in the Wolfpack Invita-
tional, an annual fall tournament
hosted by North Carolina State
University in Raleigh. The tour-
ney featured some of the nation’s
elite college Ultimate teams, in-
cluding squads from Indiana
University, Florida- State, Florida,
UVA, and the host team, NC State,
which finished last season as the
#4 team in the country.

Overshadowed by the big-
ger schools and better talent,
W&L’s team approached the tour-
: ney with realistic expectations.
“More than anything, I was hop-
ing we would gain respect from
the bigger, better teams in the re-
gion,” said Tim Smith, the team’s
staff advisor. “I hoped we would
play well enough to prevent us
from getting destroyed, and get
our team’s name out there for the
future.”

The W&L squad did much
more than that. In their opening
game, Two Dead Guys came a few
points from upsetting the
nation’s #7 ranked team, The
Darkside, from UNC-Chapel Hill.
The W&L team eventually lost
13 to 9, but that opening game
brought an instant realization —

our team could legitimately com-
pete with some of the best teams
in the country.

By the end of the touma—
ment, Two Dead Guys had com-
piled a record of 2 wins and 4
losses, more than respectable for
a new team that represents a
school of only 2000 students.

Two Dead Guys, named in
honor of our university’s dual
namesakes, was pulled together
in the fall of 2002 by Chris Jordan

(C
We are one of the

few avenues the
‘ school has to compete
athletically with big

D1 state schools.”
ToM HUNT

(’03) and a group of students
who had played pick—up Ultimate
for years. Vtrithin a few months,
the team had played in a few tour-
naments, including one at the
University of Florida in
Gainesville, and with a core
group of freshman players, the
team showed promise for the fu-
ture. But last year the team fal-
tered, due to a lack of responsible
leadership and the graduation of
many of the original members.
This year, Two Dead Guys
has rebounded. Thanks to EC
funding and legitimacy under the
new Club Sports program, the

SPORTS
W&L’s ultimate team

takes on the nation ’s best
W&L’s Two Dead Guys almost topples ACC powerhouse

 

team has set a strong foundation
and looks to represent W&L
against other colleges far into the
future, while hopefully gaining
some respect from fellow students
and from the university in gen-
era].

“The W&L community at
large probably doesn’t even
know we exist,” Smith claims.
“Most people still consider Ulti-
mate a sport for pot-smoking hip-

pies. In reality, it’s probably the .

fastest-growing competitive col-
lege sport in the country.”

Tom Hunt (’06) stresses that
Ultimate at W&L is more than
just a spring intramural sport:
“We are one of the few avenues
the school has to compete ath-
letically' with big D1 state
schools. This also helps to
spread the W&L name to people
who otherwise might not know
the school exists.”

For now, the co—ed team in-
cludes both law and undergrad
students and has members from
several Greek organizations and
a handful of freshman. Smith

stresses that new players are al-
ways welcome, regardless of skill
level.

Two Dead Guys plans to at-
tend tournaments year round, of-
fering plenty more opportunities
to beat those big D1 schools. “At
the Wolfpack, we clobbered a
team from Duke. It might not
quite compare to beating a Duke

team in basketball, but coming A

from W&L, we’re certainly not
complaining. It feels good to beat
the bigger schools, and hope-
fully we’ll be doing a lot more of
that in the future.” '

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

H Sm tALr NG—TUM PHI

GET THE BALL! Seniorjohn Barnwell and Guilford players converge on the ball.

Football tallies another win

Generals take down Guilford and improve to 3-1 in ODAC play

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

Thanks to a shut out first
half, and an action packed sec-
ond, the Washington and Lee
football team tallied another win
on Saturday against Guilford.

The Generals jumped out to
an early 14-0 lead thanks to a 1
yard touchdown run by fullback
Ryan Sullivan, followed by a 17
yard touchdown reception by
Garrett LeRose in the first half.
The Marlins came out running
in the second half and were
moving the ball well until a
fumble gave it back to the Gen-

erals in good field position.
They capitalized on a touch-
down run by Quarterback Greg
T‘weardy, but failed in the point
after.

Guilford came right back
with a 7 yard touchdown on
fourth down to get on the board.
But on the ensuing kickoff,
Colton Ward took it 86 yards to
the house in an answer that si-
lenced the Marlins. The Gener-
als rolled on the rest of the game
with ease as they went on to win
41-14.

Offensively, Ward led the
team with 203 all purpose yards
and 2 touchdowns. Tweardy

passed for 192 yards on 17
completions and 26 attempts.

On the defense side of the
ball, Lloyd Wilson counted 9 tack-
les and one sack.

The Generals were able to get
the crowd in the game, and many
fans were chanting Hiesman
whenever Ward touched the ball.
While the Hiesman Trophy may
be out of reach, Ward is leading
the team to a successful team.

With the win Washington
and Lee improves to 3-1 in
ODAC play, while Guilford falls
to 0-3, and 0-7 overall.

Next week, the Generals head
to Bridgewater for a 1:00 contest.

   
   
    
  
   
   
    
  

,Agaimt'Il*'ausyIvania
_ :_an(iD_ePaow(10l2_3)  
 Washingtonanti Lee‘:1ieu’s

‘ openedtheir 2004~(}5 seasons
against  gTrans'y}vania H and
Defauw in Lexington, Ky.,jon
Saturday’ afternoon. :;’i'he men’s
team defeated. Transylvania,
.14-3.5n~_61A.5, and Defauw, 127/.77,

while  the women beat
_ Transylvania‘, 3 12-23 .;and felt to

DePauw,90-115. ,  -A

‘ and women’s swimming  I

A  W&L  ‘ W&LVoI{eybaH Downs   

and Malymouxit, 3-0 (10223)

The Washington and Lee volley-. ,fVirgi,13i.a
ball team improved its Wintting  ‘ if " A If 
streak to it School-record.v1"77‘-7'
straight matches with a pair of 3-0 *
wins on Saturday afternoon’a£".‘VMar1ins"past-Wash gt
Mazymount University. The Get? 2
erais (22-4) defeated Messiah, 30‘-..  ‘
14; 30.23, 30-22, before downirrgf
the host Saints, 30-20, 30-34, 30:  :

17» .  

  

    
 
 

   

; ‘, 3-i1.,-in”(}_

 

the‘W&L stsssaezag;

 

. .a,' '$’9§h¢m¢=%ii.:—

F

  ysrreby     .     .B R I  F  Q -

yW&LGolfI..eadsR-MC
1'-fed Keiler Invitational (10/23)
 W&L golfteam ﬁredan open-
Iing, .ro_an¢. 297 I to lead the
 ‘ " i§an£ioiph~Macon Ted Keiier In-
vitational which is being held at
  the Hunting Ijiawir Golf Club‘ in
_ _ (‘_ilenAl3en, vs The Generaisieadl
action on.A,S,ata:Fda3t,_éf£emoi)n ‘at;,Bridgewa£er by four strokes and '
,4,    being pacedlbysophomore .
-  ;31§{I‘at£N':c1;§es'(CoIu:11bia,S;CJA.C.
V — . Flora) who ﬁred a 73. Final round
. ;f . action continues Sunday morn-V - ‘

W&L Wometfs Soccer Fails
to Lynchburg, 1-6 (10120)
Sophomore Catherine Adams

scored at the 79:04 mark to lift

Lynchburg to a‘ 1-0 win over
Washington and Lee in women’s
soccer action on Wednesday af-
ternoon’ in Lynchburg, Va.

W&L Cross country’
CompetesatGettysburg
Invitational (10/16)

The Washingtoniand Lee men’s
and wotnenfs cross country
teams were in action on Satur-
day at the Gettysburg Invita-
tional. The W&L men placed
fourth of 17 teams, while the
women finished sixth of 15
squads.

 

 Career Senricesr liar
, ﬁetooer 22*“.

Like to write sports? Contact
ruIep@wIu.edu

(yes, free) fundraisi

CampusFundraise
Fundraiser, (888)

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus
4 hours of your group's time PLUS our‘ free

$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you
schedule your non-sales fundraiser with

www.campusfundr'aiser'.com

ng solutions EQUALS

r. Contact Campus
923-3238, or visit

 

is Callin
Hc>wf*"  

T'lmadsrmt13recrl'a

' simmer!

lltetéms 
with your applitiatlczm. Apply miirae by
cat. 22 for an {Kl-'rCZ3ml3l.1S interview

. arid you we oeova"seasby;!1ax¥

Thursday,  27

    

Appiy saline at
peacecorp,<;.,gos and
ssrzmae 3 Eduthpgrs _-
interview through

E Peace Corps interviews at W&L

  

 ;
For mom mm, oomavtzt ;
distort mm 1
tooorszusso reads 3

 

   

 

  
 

’li‘.HE- Ri%.@i PHi&

Ln:

ExiiLYFm/Aims
ARlS&LlI~EEDlIOR

mm m

PAGE 7

Drama, suspense make seeing Swimming Pool worthwhile

In memory of summer, and since it’s getting so cold
here so fast, my roommates and I rented director
Francois Ozon’s suspenseful drama Swimming Pool.
Released earlier this spring, Swimming Pool has one
of the most unique and shocking endings of any movie
I have ever seen. It makes you feel really clever once
you figure out what has been going on, although, ad-
mittedly, you might need help sorting

are male, it is definitely worth your while to see this
movie. It’s centered around a swimming pool, come on.
Girls, she is an inspiration to go to the gym. An up-and-
coming actress who performed in two films in competi-
tion at the 2003 Cannes festival, she is absolutely gor-
geous and smart. She gives a role that could easily be
written off as “the slut” part warmth and depth. That’s
a tough thing to do, especially in this

things out the first time through. I
recommend watching it with a friend
who is particularly good at thinking

BEYOND HOLLYWOOD
ELYSE MOODY

film.
3) Its consistent and fascinating
use of motifs. Look for the color red,

abstractly. I don’t mean to say that
it’s not worth watching because it is confusing, but to
suggest strongly that you see it because it is so cre-
ative. I guess you’ll just have to watch it to see what
I mean.

If my description of the confusion that will inevi-
tably hit you at the end of the movie made you a little
wary of renting it, let me describe the parts of the movie
that make it worth seeing.

1) Charlotte Rampling’s hysterically quintessential
British character, the writer Sarah Morton. She is so
anal and so uptight that it made us laugh, even in the
really serious scenes. I think this is purposeful; parts
of the movie can be pretty dark. Her costumes are stun-
ning; for half of the movie, she either looks like she’s
ready to head off on a safari or back to the 18”‘ century
(her choice of nightgown is particularly funny——-she
looks like Mr. Scrooge in A Christmas Carol).

2) French actress Ludivine Sagnier, “Julie.” If you

the use of mirrors, and the consump-
tion of alcohol, etc. throughout the film for clues.

4). The haunting theme music. It will stay in your
head for hours, and it is really creepy.

5) It gives the term “writer’s block” a whole new
meaning, and offers a completely new and interesting
solution on what to do if you find yourself stuck in a
situation.

Swimming Pool is set in France, the cinematography
is beautiful and innovative, and the actors are brilliant.
Plus, it combines drama, suspense, and even a murder
mystery vibe.

As I have said, the ending is amazing, and it will '

leave you feeling considerably smarter than you did be-
fore you watched it. See it, it’s worth it, I promise. Let
me know what you think of the ending. Swimming Pool
is available online, at Blockbuster, or through special
order at the University Bookstore. See trade book man-
ager K.C. Schaefer for details.

One—man—band Keller Williams performs Saturday in the pavillion

This coming Saturday, October 30”‘, the
Washington and Lee GAB will welcome alter-

witnessed a concert unlike any other. The
Fredericksburg, Virginia native has released

native guitarist, mu1ti—instru—
mentalist, and singer/
songwriter Keller Williams to
Lexington for Kellerween:
An Evening with Keller Will-

GET CRUNK!
BLAIR CRUNK

ten albums (including a
brand new double—disc
live album entitled
“Stage”) in ten years,

iams. The concert will take place at the Wash-
ington and Lee Pavilion at 10 p.m., doors
opening at 9. Kellerween will mark the sec-
ond time Williams has visited beautiful Lex-
ington, Virginia in as many years. In Septem-
ber of 2003, many W&L students enjoyed Wil-
liams’ music at the Theater at Lime Kiln and

and promises to play
much of his recorded music in addition to
new songs and improvs on Saturday
evening.

Perhaps the most unique thing about a
Keller Williams concert (aside from the fact
that he is always barefoot) is that he does
not have a band. If you get to the show early

enough on Saturday, I would imagine that
you will see several instruments and stations
on the stage. It will appear that Williams has
a dynamic band playing a variety of different
instruments.

Don’t be fooled. Keller Williams is his
own one-man band. No, he doesn’t just play
his acoustic guitar all night. And yes, it will
get quite loud in the Pavilion. Using tech-
niques that are revolutionary in many re-
spects, Williams will dub instrumental riffs
into an equalizer and the riff will repeat sev-
eral times even while he is playing another
instrument. In addition, don’t be surprised

if he uses his vocal chords as an instrument
rather than to sing. This concert absolutely
cannot be missed — especially at such a small
venue. I don’t care what parties are going
on that night — Keller Williams is a must-see.

Tickets for Kellerween are on sale this
week in the Commons - $10 for W&L stu-
dents, $20 non—W&L. Come out and enjoy
the show — it promises to be phenomenal.
For more information on Keller Williams, visit
http2//www.kellerwi1liams.net or pick-up his
new live album, “Stage.” If you’re not famil-
iar with Williams, you should be — and
Kellerween is a perfect time to discover him.

W&L Bookstore Presents...
Student Book of the Week
A weekly Feattre of the Bookstore and the Ring-Tun PH

TH: Meek:

 
 

'urd Ferguson and the Sausage Party:
An Uncensored Guide to College Slang

- Would you rather be a Wedge or an Old Shoe?

- Does the Kelvin Club have anything to do with
Taking the Kids to the Pool?

U|"Il"I in Tun-I‘ Can-uienn and i..u|-nu ie ha. -:2! 4.: Can:-an

,....,

Reprinted from the October
1974 Ring— tum Phi

3.

Are you an alcoholic?

In order to determine whether a person has fallen
from social drinking into an abyss of sin and degra-
it is well to check over a list of test
questions which we provide here:

dation,

l. Do you require a drink the morning afterm(use

your imagination)?
2. Do

to a "sweet date”?
3. Do
4. Do
5. Is

crave a drink?

6. Do you get inner shakes unless you continue
drinking?

7. Do you get outer shakes when you continue drink
ing?

8. Does drinking cause you bodily complaints?

9. Has drinking made you more impulsive?

10. Has your sexual potency suffered since drinking?
11. Do you turn to an inferior environment since

drinking?

12. Is drinking clouding your reputation or debasing

your good name?

13. Is drinking disturbing the harmony of your life?
l4. Is drinking creating a finer harmony in your

life?

15. Have you ever had a complete loss of memory while

or after drinking?

16. Have you ever been banned from a girls’

campus? If so, has
program?

If you have answered
tions,

”yes ” to any two,
alcoholic. If you have answered
more, you are definitely an alcoholic.

DRY UP FAST AND BEAT THE

you drink more with a

you lose time from booking due to drinking?
you crave a drink at a definite time daily?
there any time of the day that you do not

this happened repeatedly?
17. Has drinking reduced the effectiveness of your

ll-yes ll
you may be an alcoholic.

to any one of these ques-

the chances are that _you are an

i”rank date” as opposed

school

If you have answered

”yes” to three or

RUSH!!!

PAGE 8

THE

POTATO Mm
MARSHAIL RULE

 

There was a time when I was smart. This time was
long ago, when I was still in training pants and riding
training wheels. I was smart then.

But then something changed. It happened when I was
five years old. My parents told me about this new and
exciting place called kindergarten. They said I would
learn things like the alphabet. I wasn’t sure about it at
first. I mean c’mon I was living the life. My day con-
sisted of sleeping in as late as I wanted, watching the
Smurfs and Captain Planet on TV, and playing with my
Hot Wheels and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles all day
long. Every meal was provided for me. Ifl wanted a
sandwich, I snap my fingers, and it would appear on a
little pink plate in an instant.

I was living the life, and my parents convinced me
to give it all up by going to school. They said it would
only be half of the day. That didn’t seem too bad to me.
I could go to school for a few hours, mac on some new
girls by showing them my new Huffy, and then get back
in time for some running through the sprinklers. But my
parents were not the cool parents, mine were the evil
ones. Mine made me to go the morning session of kin-
dergarten.

I kept saying, “Yo, madre, all the hotties are in the
afternoon session. Think about it, a few extra hours of
sleeping in before you have to take me to school. I
know you could use it.” But try as I may, she didn’t
bite, sticking me with a desperate need for naptime, and
a classroom full of 5 year old dogs.

The teacher walked in the first day and said let’s play
games. I was skeptical at first, but I figured I’d give it a
shot. The game was telephone, and my goal was to mess

  
  

’ﬁE"H.lT~L l)il:‘.\.?{.'.3»—~’l"éjT.\-‘I l3l~£E

AST ORD

PHOTO COURTESY 3DSRC.COM
POTATO MAN’s FUTURE PET. We have to wonder if Marshall will train

his pets, like his children, to use nun chucks.

up the sentence in the worst ways I could. At least that’s
what I thought the idea of the game was. The teacher
would start and whisper in the first little boy’s ear a sen-
tence. It goes around the circle, until it gets to the last
person who says what they heard. By the time it got to
me it was something like, “You are all beautiful people.”
After I had passed it, it became “Jenny’s mom smells like
poo poo.” I win. I changed it the most. I asked the
teacher what I got for winning, and I guess it was a va-
cation to the principles office.

The days only got worse. The alphabet, I came to

  

EMILYEDWARDS
ARTS&LlFEEDl’IOR
EMAIL-EDwARusa@winn)U

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

  ABC’s, other academic pursuits useless to Potato Man

realize was extremely overrated. We never learned any-
thing important or that I was interested in like how to
use nun chucks. Then we started to learn how to read,
which was the dumbest thing I have ever done. Once
you learn to read, you are expected to do things for your-
self.

The bedtime story at home goes away. And instead
the parents sit there and make you read to them. I don’t
want to read it I want to cuddle with Teddy and listen. I
mean come on, Ijust worked for four hours today at kin-
dergarten, and I want to come home to a warm meal and go
to bed, not more work. Over the next few years, I had to
do more for myself. By second grade I was making my
own sandwiches. Now that is just wrong. Then the teach-
ers started giving tests and assigning homework. I did
not like where this was heading.

High school came and kindergarten felt like a dis-
tant memory. The SAT, ACT, AP tests all came and went
adding more stress to my ever busy life. With every
new thing I learned, I forgot something I used to know.
I now know how to use the Pythagorean Theorem, but
can’t remember why Shredder hated the Rat in Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles. I can’t even remember the rat’s
name, which is just sad.

It hit rock bottom just last week, when my week of
hell came. Four midterms, a paper, and a few 3 page
essays. And to make it interesting a few infirmary vis-
its and a hospital visit for a bad case of poison ivy.
And for the first time in my life, I realized that school
and knowledge has not made me happier, but has in-
stead prevented me from learning things that truly mat-
ter.

That’s why when I get out of school, get a boring
job, and a more boring family; I am not letting my kid go
to kindergarten. He will stay home, eat for free, and
learn how to use nun chucks. Cause in the real world a
good set of nun chucks is more useful then the
Pythagorean Theorem any day.

Credit Cards ruin Christmas for Kristine

Throughout most of my life I practiced frugality. (My bills and silver coins “made the world go round”), the roundings of Nordstrom’s. I was surrounded on all sides.

mom, however, calling it like she saw it, called me a cheap-
skate.) My tendency to be a tad stingy, was not, however,
my fault: I inherited my dad’s shrewd fi-

nancial sense. Watching every penny THE WK ANDTQEEASE  count. I think
and dime comes as second nature when that the Sur-
you are the daughter of an accountant— KRISTINE EARLY geon General

someone who spends sixty hours a week
helping others save a nickel (OK....quite a few nickels).
Somehow my mathematically inept brain becomes alive as
soon as dollar signs are added to an equation.

Let’s put this into perspective. When I go grocery
shopping, I automatically start calculating the price for
ounce of each box of ce-
real and each can of Spa-
ghetti-o’s. I’m not a nerd
(well, OK, maybe I am,
but probably for differ-
ent reasons), Ijust can’t
help it. My eyes are im-
mediately drawn to the
price tag.

Ever since I received
my first allowance, I,
Kristine, the human cal-
culator (quite
unreliable...might need
new batteries), made a
pledge never to be taken
in by the corporate big-
wigs. No, not me. General
Mills couldn’t slip by 42

. oz. at six cents apiece

when 54 oz. at three cents apiece were to be had.
And then came the credit card. For those of you stuck
in the dark ages (that time not so long ago when dollar

 

credit card is a piece of plastic
specifically designed to empty
your bank ac-

should place
a prominent warning on all the
Visas, Discovers, and
MasterCards, something like:
“Warning: This product is dan-
gerous to your financial
wellbeing. Use of this prod-
uct may lead to bank-
ruptcy, foreclosure, or ex-
treme parental anger and
frustration.”

When I first received my credit card, it was
for “emergency” use only. In other words, I was only
allowed to “swipe it home” if a) my car died on a coun-
try road and I needed someone to tow it home or b) I
saw a really, really, really, really cute pair of pants at
the mall that fit just right.

As I built up good credit, my parents became
slightly more lenient. Thebills stayed relatively within
reason, and except for a few minor disagreements on
what qualified as “really, really, really, really” cute,
there were never any problems. But then again, I had
never been on a shopping spree in D.C.

I would like to think that I would never have spent
$70 on a polo shirt ifI would have needed to part with
three beautiful, crisp twenty dollar bills and one
Alexander Hamilton. Never in my life did I expect to spend
money so superfluously. But I never expected a face-down.

It was me, alone in the world, against the posh sur-

 

Designer dresses stood on
guard, lined up with extreme
precision. North Face was
posed to attack my wallet. No
matter how hard I tried, I was
fighting a losing battle. There
is only one thing a defense-
less card—bearer can do when
faced with such opposition-
wave the clerk down and say
“ring it up.”

Having visited three malls
in one weekend, I quivered in
fear as I added the receipt to-
tals together.

I experienced almost a per-
verse sort of excitement as the
numbers climbed higher and higher. Down the drain went
every dollar I’d saved at . A 
the check-out line, every ' \
quarter tucked diligently
away.

When I called my
parents to break the
news, I think I sent them
into a state of shock. Nei-
ther of them was too up-
set, but I am not expect-
ing to find much under
the Christmas tree. So for
now, I am tucking that le-
thal piece of plastic away.
And if you spill anything
on my polo, well, you bet-
ter watch out!

 

“is

 

Q Earl Edwards is my hero.

Q FYI: Chi Psis don’t put out.

Q From the same person: Why won’t anyone give
it up to me?

Q Margaret, you’ve won the election already, stop
campaigning!

Q hey mary, you’re quite hot....(chandelier guy)

Q “NO! IT’S OUR PIZZA! We saw the Domino’s
man first...”

Q As said by an actual freshman over Reading
Days: “Whoa! Whoever made hills was
DEFINATELY not drunk!”

Q To the freshman girl who wore the Something
Corporate t shirt the other day: I love you.

Q The girls at Raincor are looking for some boy-
friends. Candidates must have pulse and toler-
ance for extremely loud noises.

Q Will the gentlemen of W&L please refrain from
hocking their loogeys ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS?
There’s a wide world of lawns and ﬂower beds out
there.

Q Bruno is the hottest Kappa Sig. I would skip
class to hook up with him anyday.

Q Coleman you’re one lucky SOB. Yeah you know
what I’m talking about.

Q If that guy tries to talk to us, we’re lesbians
AND we have boyfriends....

Q On a scale of 1 to 10, one notable editor's quick
hit contributions are really good.

Q Why has the Commons been shaking and shiv-
ering lately? Shouldn’t a brand new building be,
oh, stable?

Q Putting Honor System guilt into a campus no-
tice about a missing belonging will not get it back
to you any faster.

Q God bless girls who kiss sober drivers when
thanking them. You make the night endurable.

Q Chaucer died today in history. How sad.

Q Catholic Boys in speedos in the pool this Sat-
urday at 2 pm. YES!

Q Newsflash to KA: eating hot dogs is not urban.
Neither is muscular dystrophy. So why the thugs
on the T shirts?

Q Whoever tore up an edition of Una Vox and left
it as a gift for Gaines suite 342 should have at
least left a name along with their present.

Q Thanks, Groupwise, for losing two days’ worth
of my email! ! Everyone was perfectly understand-
ing and I didn’t want to deal with it anyway!

Q Today is a sad day in history for BoSox fans.
The NY Mets defeated the Red Soxs in game six
of the World Series to go on and win the Series
two days later.

Q Happy 60th birthday to James Carville.

Q A certain well dressed junior started the ga-
loshes trend last year.

Q Celebrate Carbs! Today is World Pasta Day in
NYC.

Q Way to go Hardees! I’ll buy anything a model
on a mechanical bull is promoting.

Q I wanna be the girl on the mechanical bull.

Q Greeks understand responsibility. period.

Q The help desk has an online wait list -— who knew?

Q If the SAO through a party where I could get
wasted, I’d go.

Q I love Corbin Blackford.

Q NASCAR is awesome. Any elitist who says they
don’t like it clearly hasn’t watched it.

Q Way to go Lindsay Hagerman on winning the
national singles tournament.

Q Just because I’m a legacy doesn’t mean I’m
stuped.

Q I wish Arnold could be President. We should
change the law.

Q My brain hurts.

Q Watch out VMI rat-ship, Dean Watkins is com-
ing!

Q Why do srats take themselves so seriously? It’s
not like you do anything good.

Q I’m hungry, the co—op needs to open before 1
p.m. on Sundays.

Q Thou shalt not covet.

Q Email your anonymous quick hitsand crazy Hal-
loween stories to phi@wlu.edu

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM PI II

The Iieeeieeei were of Washington and Lee Ueeieerein time 7897
  Election 2004 -

Carlson weighs in  
on tomorrow’s poll

BY KATHERINE SHELL
ASST NEWs EDITOR

Cw.

VOLUME  No. 13
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1,2004

T HE

Halloween Fun

Tucker Carlson, CNN ’s Crossﬁre co-host and well—known con-
servative political commentator, spoke Wednesday night at Lee
Chapel in front of an eager crowd. After his speech, entitled “Why
the Right is -Right,” a book-signing and reception followed in Lee
Chapel.

Carlson’s discourse detailed why he believes Kerry will not
win the 2004 election next week. He stated that “attacking the
opponent’s character is what the Kerry campaign did from day one."
Though he speciﬁcally said he did not have a problem with a charac-
ter debate, in his experience, he believes they don’t work. “Personal
attacks, attacks on character, get partisan individuals in a frenzy. I
Who cares about partisans in a frenzy, they will vote the same way
[as before the character debate]. The narrow band in the middle who
haven’t made up their mind a week before the election are turned off
by a character debate.” He also reminded the audience that after
Clinton’s impeachment, his ratings
went up" “The narrow band in the

middle who haven’t made
up their mind a week before
the election are turned off

by a character debate.”
TUcKERCAR1soNV
POHIICALPUNDIT

As well as discussing
why he believes Kerry’s campaign
will not work, he also discussed
some of the campaign ploys used
by Kerry’s campaign. He cited
evidence of Kerry’s attempt to
show a speciﬁc personality, and
those attempts to show Bush in a
negative light. He told humourous
stories of Kerry attempting to be

ORBIN LACKFORD " G—TUM HI-

GOLFING WITH LOCAL Kins.‘ Greek organizations and other groups help to run Wal-Mart’s lst annual Halloween Carnival.

W&L community, Wal-Mart host carnival

‘popular at W&L, such as ac-

~ Selective Liberal Arts Consor-

BY LEAH KERsHAW
STAFF WRITER

Lexington Wal-Mart’s 1*‘
annual Halloween Carnival
draws a crowd of costumed
witches, princesses and cow-
boys.

The carnival was held in
the Wal-Mart parking lot Satur-
day, Oct. 30. The event was
sponsored bycwashington and

the concession stand’s sales
were donated to Young Life, a
Christian youth group program.
Wal-Mart donated the prize
candy, concession items and
pumpkins for the children to
decorate. Wal-Mart also pro-
vided publicity for the carnival.
Jason Woodlief, assistant
manager of\Wal—Mart, came up
with the idea for the carnival.
Before coming to Lexington’s
Wal-Mart, Woodlief worked for

had always been very success-
ful in Charleston, Woodlief de-
cided to bring the event to Lex-
ington. Woodlief said that the
purpose of the carnival is to in-
spire “community involvement
for an organization to host the
event every year.” ,

The carnival was well at-
tended by families from the sur-
rounding areas.

Fraternities and sororities
sponsored various carnival

Reid Manning, a member
of Kappa Sigma, enjoyed vol-
unteering at the carnival. Man-
ning said, “It’s a great way for
the Greek system to gain posi-
tive interaction with the commu-
nity in a quality way.”

Localchildrenwene excited
about the Halloween carnival.
Nine year-old ‘ Cheyenne
Hamilton, dressed as bumblebee,
said that she was “having a lot
of fun”. Cheyenne Hamilton’s 5-

“macho,” and summed it up with “John Kerry. He may be liberal, but
he’s mean.” He also discussed the Democratic tendency to portray
Bush as “not only so dumb he can barely read, but a brilliant evil
genius.” Carlson pointed out the deﬁciencies in this stereotype,
including, “People could not process Bush as a liar,” they “like Bush
because they think he’s a straight-shooter.” His problem with this
Democratic propaganda was that the “Democrats came to believe
Bush was the caricature they had been portraying.”

After discussing the Democrats’ tactics to win the 2004 Elec-
tion, he discussed the subject weighing on many peoples minds as
they decide who to vote: Iraq. “Kerry allowed the central issue of
this election to go undebated.” Also, Carlson acknowledged that the
“rest of the country would have beneﬁted from a debate on the war

_ of terror,” ‘which did not happen until Labor Day.

Lee fraternities and sororities, a Wal-Mart in Charleston", South games and activities including a year—old sister Tasha Hamilton, Carlson elaborated on man of the kc issues in next weeks
Rockbridge Area Shop for Tots Carolina that hostedasirnilar Hal- ring toss,,face painting and bal- dressed as princess, also en- election and a ealed to much if the W821: communi with his
and Young Life. Proceeds from loween event. Since the event loon dart throwing. joyed the carnival. ’ pp ty

witty,‘ conservative anecdotes and lecture.

Upperclassmen embark on the search for employment
PPSE to offer job help for students

For most seniors,entering the workforce is the

next step after graduating from Washington & Lee

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR.

As fall term marches on, W&L seniors are beginning
to think about life after college. Over the last ﬁve years,
nearly a quarter of graduates went on to advanced studies.
But around 65% decided to dive into the world of employ-

ment right after graduation.

September’s national unemployment rate was 5.4%,
an improvement from the mid-2003 peak of 6.5%. Nonethe-

less, the Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics predicts growth that ei-
ther exceeds or meets the na-
tional average in many careers

counting and management.
The BLS also predicts
growth——and “intense compe-
tition”—in marketing, public
relations, and advertising.
Many of these jobs will be- _
come available in early 2005.
For this part of the year,
students out of the VV1l1iams
School are the focus of em-'
ployers. Suzarme Wade, As-
sistant Director of Career Ser-
vices, agrees that commerce
students are facing an intense
situation. Increased competi-

tion in accounting and invest- ’ V . . I . I _ , . V cynical. “I’m not too optimistic
men‘ barlking means that top     3°" tofcontact them’ and, because I haven’t had too much
firms have already given of-  9iVe.'“y’°u ajob" ‘ luck,” he said, 2

fers.

Later in the school year,
Career Services will collect re-
sumes and applications for the

tium (SLAC), which arranges
interview days in Philadelphia,
Chicago, New York, Boston, or
Washington, D.C. Other jobs

will become available on eRecruiting.com, the career center’s
job and internship network.

Diarme Winter ’05, a business administration major,
has taken full advantage of the convenient opportunities.
Though she is interested in commercial banking, she has

interviewed on-campus for several investment banking jobs
as well.

Another way students get a foothold is through in-

ternships, which allow them to make contacts as well as prove
themselves to a potential employer. Politics professor Will-
iam Connelly leads a group of 15-16 students to Washington,
DC. each spring term for an internship on Capitol Hill.

“Each spring about half of my. . .students stay in D.C.

   



3; 

  

»-‘e:raint,ewi‘eyv  , not iota. »
 V “ -;:r'actioé_fiaterviewlaeddis~,“

‘raw-aavtser..,-I.. I Q 
:ffW°U9?§.,.tﬁe, ca‘-t 37
ships, many ofthem '

 

   yourresume. .
grzenstericemgo ¥ahoo_Hot.Jpbs,a¥1_ows em- f
" " ‘ mintmat effort on your.

rig; An. .nside;soujrcfe can Ietyou know

 
 
   
   
        
       
      

for a job or intemship,” Connelly said. “We also have a long
success rate of seniors. . .into jobs in Washington upon gradu-

ating.” Connelly sees this suc-
cess as a direct result of the
Washington Term, pointing to

the saying, “The best way to get .

ajob on the Hill is to have ajob
on the Hill.”

Brittany Smith ’05 can
speak to the value of an intern-
ship. Smith, an accounting ma-

S jor, received—and signed——a job

offer at the end of her internship
this summer. While her fellow
seniors scramble to connect with
employers, she can concentrate
on her studies.

Drew Jones ’05 has used
Career Services and personal
contacts to search for jobs. But
a tight job market and a competi-
tive ﬁeld have left him feeling

For now, C—school majors "

swarm the Hill in suit and tie for
interviews. Come winter term,
they’ll be replaced by liberal arts
majors as new employers move
through campus.

For Winter, the hardest
part of the process is the time it

takes. “There were a lot of jobs -
on SLAC, so it took a lot of time to search through all of

them,” she said. “It just comes in waves.”

Jones agrees. “It’s pretty stressful, just applying, hav-
ing the right cover letter, getting resumes together, stuff like
that—it takes a lot of time.”

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER
If you don’t know what to do after
you graduate or want to do something
different before you go to graduate
school, thepProject for Public Service
Employment is here to help. .
PPSE is a new program de-

, signed to help students of all majors and

interests find public service jobs that are
right for them.

Many seniors have difficulties
ﬁnding non-proﬁt jobs after they gradu-
ate because many non-proﬁt jobs are
not sufficiently advertised or students
carmot begin work when non-proﬁt or-
ganizations need them. PPSE helps solve
these problems by matching students
with non-proﬁt and making sure student
and non-proﬁt timelines coincide. Stu-
dents submit their application to PPSE,

and PPSE sends student applications to
appropriate organizations.

PPSE fellows are guaranteed
full—time work for as little as ten months
or as long as two years in Baltimore, New
York City, Washington, D.C., or even in-
ternationally. Fellows are also guaranteed
monthly stipends of at least $1900 as well
as health insurance. Every fellow re-
ceives an alumni mentor in the city where
they are placed, and students become
further connected with a network of
alumni-based public interest programs
including 22 public interest programs
with alumni from Dartmouth,
Georgetown, Harvard, Bucknell, and
Stanford.

If you are interested inthis pro-
gram, go to PPSE’s website, http://
ppse.w1u.edu/, or contact Stacy

' McLoughlin or Aubrey Shinoﬁeld.

    

ling-tum Phi

 

Election Special
Opinions Page 4  

PHOTOS COURTESY] oHNKERRY.coM AND GEoRGEWBusH.coM

EDITED BY CHAD KIEWET DE ]oNcE

 

  

 VA 94450

Hassouna speaks at Vll/ll

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

VMI — One of the Arab world’s most distin-
guished diplomats visited Lexington last week, of-
fering hisiperspective of the American-Arab con-
ﬂict. An Egyptian native, Hussein Hassouna is the
current Arab League ambassador to the United
States. He addressed the Virginia Military
Institute’s Corps Cadets last Wednesday, and fo-
cused on issues relating to Palestine, Iraq, and the
9/ ll terrorist attacks. _

Hassouna began his lecture by saying that
he firmly believes Muslims and Americans share a
common unity and are part of a “global culture.”
When discussing the tragedies of 9/ l 1, Hassouna
said the attack was against all civilized nations. He
pointed to the fact that many 9/ 11 victims were
foreign born, and said that the Arab world and the
United States have a common enemy in ﬁghting
terrorism and must join hands.

9/11 attacks

Hassouna expressed his disappointment for
the blame that some have placed on the Islamic
religion and the Muslim culture for the attacks of
September 11, 2001 . He urged Americans who main-
tain a bias against Muslims to be more responsible
and rational.

“It is important to remember that President
Bush, immediately following the attacks, recognized
that [9/1 1] was not a representation of Islam nor of
the Muslim world.” Hassouna also pointed to the
9/ ll Commission for stating in its conclusion that
the enemy is a group of fringe killers.

The high—ranking diplomat said that the rea— ‘

son why a large number of Muslims are anti—Ameri-
can relates to a lack of education, literacy, and em-
ployment in their homeland. “When these people
see problems like Palestine dragging on, they be-
gin to feel more despair and feel as though they
need to react,” said Hassouna. And when people
feel defenseless, they tend to become more extreme
and radical, leading them to commit crimes in the
name of their people or religious beliefs.

The best way to combat this is through joint
efforts by the United Nations, said Hassouna. He
expressed hopes for an international conference
dealing with terrorism because terrorism can not be
eradicated unless “developed infrastructures” are
established in the Middle East in order to spawn a
higher—educated population.

“The United States and Western powers have

NEWS
Distinguished ab dploat addresses inteat

'§‘='ll;l?.l.‘Lt'i~'ll“«ll}l=3

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

COURTESY WWW/.PEPM.ORG

SHARED ‘GLOBAL CULTURE.’ Arab League Ambassador Hussein Hassouna, pictured above at another event,
spoke at VMI about the current relationship between America and the Arab world.

never tried to solve real problems that these societ-
ies face,” said Hassouna.
Hassouna outlined the three areas of great
conﬂict in the Middle East:
Historical Israel—Palestine conﬂict
The U.S.—led invasion of Iraq
Human development
While the war in Iraq has created contro-
versy, Hassouna believes that it is only “a chap-
ter” in the history of Middle Eastern conﬂicts. “The
main problem in the hearts and minds of the Arab
people  is the tragedy in Palestine.”

t Israel — Palestine

Hassouna does not believe that the United
States has been completely fair in its diplomacy to
this region. Among the problems in the Israeli-
Palestinian conﬂict is Israel’s construction of a wall
or fence—like structure across the West Bank. Sup-
porters of Israel call the structure a “security fence”
because they believe its purpose is to protect Is-
rael from suicide bombers. Palestinian sympathiz-

Washington & Lee Mock Trial Association
prepares to pick first competitive team

BY SARAH MURRAY

NEWS EDITOR

In its first year of competi-
tion, W&L’s Mock Trial Asso-
ciation is preparing to select its
competition team at the end of
the semester. Twenty-five stu-
dents have been spending four
hours a week learning courtroom
jargon and procedure in prepa-
ration for the winter competition
season.

The new Mock Trial sys-
tem requires more comnritment
from its members than other on-
campus organizations. Inter-
ested students enrolled in a one-
credit course this fall to learn
basic techniques: direct exami-
nation, cross-examination, and
opening and closing arguments.
Members also learn to stand up
under questioning as witnesses.

At the end of the term, eight stu-
dents will be selected for the
team. During winter term, a simi-
lar class will focus on prepara-
tion for competition.

Law professor Beth
Belmont makes sure that the

class is unique. Students do not
receive grades. Classes take
place over pizza at the law school,
meeting Wednesdays and Sun-
days.

“It’s a lot less stressful than
other classes because of the lack
of grades, but everyone’s really
motivated and wants to do well,”
said Aditya Kamath ’06, founder.

Belmont recruited the aid of
Kim Thomas ‘05L, who partici-
pated in Mock Trial during her
undergraduate years at Rhodes
College, Memphis, Tenn. Thomas
was more than willing to help a
program that inﬂuenced her fu-
ture so much.

“It helped me develop my
public speaking and advocacy
skills, and it actually convinced
me that I should go to law
school,” Thomas said.

Thomas will bring her ex-
perience to bear on the mechan-
ics and procedures of Mock Trial
competition.

Kamath has wanted to bring
Mock Trial to W&L ever since he
left his high school chapter. Lack

The CounterCulture Cafe
Home-cooked vegetarian fare

of funding prevented his attempt
to start a chapter last year, and
he turned to Belmont for advice.

When Belmont observed
that some of the best teams offer
class credit, Thomas recom-
mended the system out of her
Rhodes experience. “I thought
it was a really good approach,
because it built in a level of com-
mitment and dedication that is
not always present in a strictly
extra-curricular program,” Tho-
mas said.

This year, Mock Trial has
more of a presence than Kamath
had ever hoped for. The eight
students who compete at the re-
gional tournament in February in
Washington, D.C. will be better-
prepared than he anticipated
during his first attempt at start-
ing the group.

“It’s also a wonderful thing
that undergrads get to go to law
school for class and interact with
law professors and students,”
Kamath said. “It fosters a greater
sense of campus unity and cross-
ravine relations.”

 

; .

check

  

C707‘

Sﬂvess /Min 13!
l6‘lia”cio/a fe Bandaidsl

ers, on the other hand, say the structure is an “apart-
heid wall” and a “land-grab.” Hassouna described
the structure as a “wall,” and said that Palestine
would have accepted its construction had it been
built on the border. Israel, however, has built parts
of the structure inside Palestinian territory. After
its completion, the structure could isolate as many
as 200,000 Palestinian natives from the rest of their
land. I
In late July, the United Nations voted 150-6
against the Israeli structure and ordered for repara-
tions to Palestine. In some regions, the structure
has ripped up fertile farm land vital to many Pales-

. tinians. The United States was only one of ﬁve

other countries to support Israel, and argues that
the vote was imbalanced.

Iraq

Hassouna stressed the differences between
the two U.S.—led wars in Iraq. In the liberation of
Kuwait, Saddam, Hussein displayed a blatant ag-
gression‘ against and independent Arab country.

BY KATHERINE KRALL
STAFF WRITER

Nabors Service League met with the phi-
lanthropy chairs of campus organizations on
Tuesday in order to introduce a new plan to en-
courage W&L students to become involved in
volunteerism. Service opportunities will now be
offered through activities that deal directly with
the student body.

“It is our goal to have every organization
involved in service in the community” said Tye
Haeberle, who, with Sonia Siu, is in charge of
campus outreach. Instead of N abors creating all
the service programs, agencies in the commu-
nity will now work directly with the campus or-
ganization to arrange service opportunities and
engage volunteer workers.

Nabors will initially establish the contact
between the campus organization and the com-
munity agency, but eventually the Nabors
middleman will be eliminated.

“Nabors will still be there to support and
to provide special events” said Sonia Siu, “basi-
cally we are trying to facilitate a closer relation-

VOTE.

Shop

 

Like No Otrihelrm

You've Seen!
6/‘f 1'5 & Snac/cs‘

For All 0cca.ps'/'a_n_.s_'~
Our: Tea Room
(Serving Premium Teas, Ligh-r Far-e 6: Sweefs)
Body Frvsfingl Shldenf Cane Paekqges
.$amefhity for Everyone
Abve/iy Candies,

ional affairs

As a result, Hassouna said the “whole world stood
up against this aggression.” The liberation of Ku-
wait was thus largely supported by the Arab world.

Operation Iraqi Freedom, however, was
waged under different circumstances. Hassouna
said that the civilians in Iraq are still paying a price
as a result of the on—going confrontations in their
homeland. In addition, Hassouna expressed his
concern for an American—led invasion that was
launched without the support of the international
community.

“The idea of preemptive strike is a very con-
troversial issue. Whatever can be said for it,”
Hassouna argued, “I think the greatest danger is
that this notion could be followed by other coun-
tries. If every country acted this way, we would be
in a very dangerous world.” .

The first elections in Iraq are scheduled for
the end of January. Hassouna was concerned
about the security situation in Iraq. While he be-
lieves that elections are the best way to proceed as
a democracy, Hassouna stated that the results must
be justifiable, including all fractions of the Iraqi
population.

“There is a feeling among Iraqis that they are
victims [of Operation Iraqi Freedom],” Hassouna
said, “there’s this idea that the war has other de-
signs.” I

  Human development

Hassouna is an important member of the Arab
League, a body representing a group of Middle
Eastern nations, including Jordan, Tunisia, Sudan
and Syria. He described the League’s creation of a
free trade zone and their agenda for reform in the
Arab world, including the promotion of women’s
role in society.

The Arab League has also called for a estab-
lishment of a no-WMD-zone across the Middle
East. All countries, including Iran and Israel, would
have to put their nuclear capacity under inspection
of international ofﬁcials. “We will deal with it with-
out exception,” Hassouna stated.

Common values

Hassouna ended his presentation by again
stressing the common values shared between
Americans and Muslims. “The positive elements
between these two worlds are much stronger. We
have a common destiny  whatever approaches
the United _States adopts will affect everyone. There
are huge strategic interests and it is important to
restore trust between these two worlds... the few
extremists want to push us to confrontation  it
will always important to continually discuss these
issues,” Hassouna concluded.

N abors meets with organizations

ship between the organization and the service

I agency and to connect them in a 1ong—terin rela-

tionship.” ,

A beneﬁt to this new arrangement will be
increased numbers of volunteers, since friends or
group leaders will be soliciting their participation.

v “People are far more likely to get involved if some-

one that they have a personal relationship with
asks them to volunteer,” said Haeberle, “so this is
a more efﬁcientway to get the entire campus in-
volved.”

Incentives include an improved relationship
with Lexington. “In the past, W&L has had a little
of an isolationist image, but volunteering corrects
that” said Haeberle. He notes that there are chil-
dren who need a tutor and elderly people who just
need someone to talk to and this new arrangement
will make volunteers much more accessible to the
needy.

Haeberle explains the many beneﬁts, “the
ultimate goal is to increase Washington and Lee’s
level of civic engagement, allow students chances
to improve their quality of life and hopefully im-
press a more favorable image of W & L on our
immediate neighbors.”

 

    
    
   

  
 

W&L’s
II1OSt
trusted  

      
 
      
    

«6/‘fr Baskeiif

 

Kick/ts: Popcorn!

l\/Ionday-‘Saturday 10 é.rn.‘ - 5:30 p.rn.
Sunday Noon :— 4:00 p_.r_r;.
1 3 South 1\/Iain Street
464-4433

    

clean meat; I
- gourmet cheeses
- N.Y. Bagels

- wholesome snacks
- orgenlc produce
- quick-ﬂx entrees

 
   

SOUIICC

  
   
 

 
  
    
  
  

Fun Foods
. .5‘
Accessories
‘I-4...! .14-vnn

I -4..‘ -.

Member discounts available
Mon-Fri 9-6

    

Sat 9-5 0

  
 

wwvv.funfoodsforyou.corn .

for news

 

1 .

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004 '

m1;i?.1N<_;—Tu:»i Pm
STAFF EDITORIAL
Phi for re-election of Bush

We here at the Ring-tum Phi certainly
do not all agree on which candidate is
the most virtuous, nor do we all agree on
the issues they champion. But the ma-
jority of editors here at the Phi feel that
President Bush continues to be the right
man for the job. A

‘Certainly both candidates are quali-
fied to be the President, but the bottom
line is that John Kerry’s economic policy
does not make any sense. Here is a man
who advocates massive increases in pub-

‘lic program spending while simulta-
neously talking of cuts to middle class
taxes. While Democratic rhetoric towards
“making the rich pay their share” is well
and good, it’s a simple fact that one can’t
expand the government without taxing
the middle class, and that is precisely
what Kerry will have to do, whether he
intends to or not.

Thus, we feel that Bush’s tax cuts
(and thus smaller, less wasteful govern-
ment) are a more efficient plan for
America’s future. While the President
usually does not exert much direct con-
trol over the economy (the current so-
called “Bush recession” was in reality
well on its way by the end of Clinton’s
administration), Bush’s plan makes sense
and will restore economic confidence to
small businesses and middle-class
America without the pie—in-the-sky prom-
.ises of the senator from Massachusetts.
As college students, we have more con-
fidence in a Bush-inﬂuenced job market
upon graduation rather than a Kerry-in-
fluenced one.

Also of import is the fact that Kerry
pays undue attention to non-American
sources when it comes to foreign policy.
While “internationalism” and “globaliza-
tion” are well and good, the fact is that
decisions related to America’s safety must
be made only by America. Kerry’s vision
of a world where America must seek glo-
bal approvalto safeguard its own inter-
ests is simply not acceptable to us.

Therefore, while we respect John
Kerry and his plan, we feel that President
Bush’s is superior, and contains a
brighter future for America.

 

“Well, tl1 was no sex for l4 days”,

~Gov. Amold Schwarzenegger (R—Ca) on
rejection by his wife following his
endorsement of President Bus h at the
RepublicanNationalConvention.

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderman

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen
Business Manager

Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Directors

David Seifert

Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara

Distribution Dir Stephen Lipscomb

77ze Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Iﬁng-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

ll 

CAlEYAI\ﬂ)EBSON
OPINIONS Ennorr

Em m:

 

Reflections on Gaines Halllife as a frosh 

Over the summer, when I received my
Housing Information Sheet, I was honestly
just excited to have official word that I was,
for sure, attending college in the fall. That
and I had a single, which meant little to
me, but was fun to brag about to my
friends. When I saw that I was in this dorm,

‘I’ve also found that my roommates
arenjt that crazy. Yes, one listens to MTV
at 8 in the morning, the motivation for
which is still a bit hazy to me, seeing as

how it’s 8 in the morning when I try to dis-

cover it. . .
There are two Yankees, which was an

“Gaines,” I was like . adjustment to say the least, but
Thank God, They put me mmjfi I think it was handled grace-
in the normal dorm! Then ITSNOTYOUJTSME fully. I can proudly say that
I talked to all my other they are now accustomed to

friends, and turns out
THEY were in the normal
dorm, not me. They both STARTED with
G’s, but were not, in fact, the same. So what
is this “Gaines” place, then, if not Graham-
Lee’s?

Within days I met some expert W&L
students that had suffered the same fate in
the past. “You’re in GAINES?” they asked.
Um, yes. “I was in Gaines.”

Awkward silence. ,

I’m standing there staring, in horror.
They looked at me with pity. “Yeah...you
need to switch.”

To see if I could get a more balanced
opinion (maybe, hopefully, there’s another
side to this...) I consulted another W&L/
Richmond friend of mine. “Gaines?” he
asked. “Um....You’ll get a lot of sleep...”

Because that’s what I’m going to col-
lege for. Sleep.

I was starting to get a little freaked out;
I mean, I didn’t want to go to college and
already have a strike against me. If I
wanted to do that, Icould just dye my hair
green and pierce my eyebrow, I don’t need
University Housing to do it for me.

So I was a little nervous moving in. I
was relieved to find that my suitemates
seemed normal...on the surface. I was sure
that, underneath their sweet smiles and
handshakes were some serious psychologi-
cal issues involving uncleanliness,
loserness, and general psychosis.

Having learned that Gaines “hinders

your social development,” I was completely _

ready to stay in my room 24-7, a hermit.
Now I have found some advantages to
living in Gaines. For the first few days, you
tell people where you’re living and they
give a long sigh of envy, and tell you it’s a
palace. After that, it turns back into the
obligatory “Oh really? God, that sucks. But
your room is really big, isn’t it?” .
But during orientation week, I was like
yeah, my room is big. And carpeted. And
air conditioned, thanks to a note from my
family allergist, so that I do not have aller-
gic reactions to the heat. Or something.

Letter to the Editor .

To The Editors:

‘On behalf of the Board of Trustees, I want to

respond to articles in our student newspa-
pers that may leave the wrong impression re-
garding University policy toward the use of
alcohol in fraternity houses.

There are three elements to University policy:
support for state and local laws, enforcement
of University regulations, and enforcement of
the rules of the national fraternity organiza-
tions. The combined effect is that University
policy includes, but is not limited to, the fol-
lowing provisions:

The possession, sale, use or consump-
tion of alcoholic beverages at any event en-
dorsed by, or associated with, the fraternity

MARY CHILDS ‘O8

9

the apparently ubiquitous
pearl necklaces and the “L. L.
Bean on otherwise normal college stu-
dents.” Other than that, and the time I for-
got to take the trash out for half a week,
things have gone pretty smoothly.

The major downside to Gaines, about
which I was amply warned over the sum-
mer, is the fact that every night when you
happy freshmen zig zag home to your warm,
well-lit halls of Graham-Lee's and Gillam, I
am trudging faithfully to the hospital hall-

~ ways I call home-
I have to cross another whole road to_

get to Gaines, and there are sketchy alley-
ways full of sketchy cats (descended from
Lee’s cats —' or .possibly, the actual cats,
judging by the condition they’re in) and,
of course, skunks, on my way. All these
scary or just weird factors mean that it is
a lonely trip; no one in Normal Dorming
Situations wants to walk you home, and
God knows no one’s going that way.

And not only am I in the leper colony
of freshman dorms (upperclassmen, you
are entirely excluded from these gener-
alizations because you are rooming with
your friends, and presumably you already
have a lot of friends anyway), I’m on the
quarantined side of it.

Through sheer bad luck, there are two
little suites on the wrong side of the U,
over in the corner.

The “active” end is in the middle,
where there are two sides of the hall with
rooms, and its co-ed. Scandalous, I know.

So for those of us that must pass the
DC’s room, round the corner, and scuffle
our way into the social side of things
(and let’s keep in mind that I use the word
“social” liberally here) it is just too hard
to be social sometimes.

All that walking when my bed is right
here  not to mention the fact that you
feel a little like a leech, always hanging
out in other people’s rooms when yours
is blatantly really far away and you have
no excuse to be there.

So as a freshman in Gaines, I have

, PAGE "3

photo murtegr ofjr//tumermotn

MDCED BLESSING? Gaines Hall as a frosh can be trying.

certainly found it to be true that living in
a palace a hundred miles away from civili-
zation is not ideal (See “Rapunzel”).

Let’s be honest — if you know who I
am, that is a triumph, nay, a miracle for
me.

It’s more than a battle for any
Gainesian to meet more than twelve Regu-

lar Freshmen, let alone upperclassmen

(somehow they seem to know GL kids bet-
ter — perhaps networking works better if
you are not isolated. Call me crazy...).

So to the Freshmen in Normal Dorming
Situations (Look! As an acronym, that al-
most spells “FRIENDS" which looks like
friends...coincidence?), feel free to call
your Gaines friends all the time. ,

Or, wait, no, our phones don’t work

here, because there is no cellular recep-_

tion in prison cells.

So feel free to IM your Gaines friends.
What’s that? You don’t know a Gaines
kid, probably because you’ve never seen
one? A Well, there are plenty just
waiting to have friends, so make some new
Gaines friends if'you have none.

Everybody needs that token Socially
Hindered kid, right? No, actually, I’m go-
ing to reject that label. We’re fun! We or-
der pizza! We can hang!

Bottom Line: don’t forget your fellow
freshmen, or freshman friend, just be-
cause he/she happens to be on the side
of campus where you would never think
to venture, because it smells like skunk.

must be in compliance with state and local
laws.

The purchase or use of a bulk quantity or
common sources of alcoholic beverages (i.e.
kegs, multi—portion bottles, orcases) is pro-
hibitedﬁ

Under-age drinking is prohibited.

All recruitment activities will be dry func-
tions.

Drinking games are prohibited.

Students can reference these regulations spe-
cifically by familiarizing themselves with state
and local law, consulting the Standardsifor
Fraternities and Sororities in the Student

Handbook, and obtaining the rules of their
national organizations.

Our policies are meant to help provide a safe,
healthy and respectful environment for our
students and our neighbors-in the community
we share.

Because that is of utmost importance to
the Board, I want to make it very clear that, in
accordance with our fiduciary responsibility,
the Board expects full compliance from our

students, and that University policy will be

enforced by the Administration.

Sincerely, V
Philip W. Norwood
Rector, Board of Trustees

 

names of the people I went to high school with.
AlanKeyes- l Nut.....job.

Elton John- 1- Nut.....job.

Ashlee Sirnpson- .L- Milli Vanilli, anyone?

could enjoy regardless of Greek afﬁliation.

nently cold?

Thefacebook.com - T Strangely addicting, and now I know all the 

Supreme Court- 4"? Longest—tenured court continues its reign, and
here’s hoping that Rehnquist’s battle with cancer doesn’t change that.

Winter- 1 So, is there a rule that Virginia weather has to get really cold,
then really hot, and so forth for three months until it ﬁnally gets penna-

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,‘
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Osarna bin Laden-  Says that “America‘s safety depends on your
policy, neither Bush or Kerry can protect you.” Or, you know, your sur-
vival depends on how lucky any given Marine Expeditionary Corps is on a

particular day.

Election 2004- 4*"* Excitement is building, but does anyone really think
we’ll know who’ll really have won by 3am onWednesday?

feel sorry for them.

Windfall Halloween Party- T One of those great W&L parties that all ,
W.- 4-9 bin Laden tape probably helps him more than Kerry, but the
Packers beat the Redskins yesterday, and a Redskin defeat is an omen
which has correctly predicted for more than 70 years that the incumbent
White House party will fall. . v

Zombies- 1 Halloween safety tip, kids— remember, the undead feel no pain,
and the only way to stop them is to do catastrophic damage to the head.

Osama bin Laden AS a zombie- T Overwhelming hatred for Western
culture replaced with overwhelming hunger for human ﬂesh. Now THERE’ S
a sitcom. “Inﬁdel Brains,” premiering next Friday on FOX.

Florida Football-  What an awful week. They ALL lost. Not that I’m
particularly a fan of college football, much less Florida, but you still have to

 

 

 

    

PAGE 4

:-lr;Rl,\r:-:n :i.r7.‘-‘er

PINIONS e-'——

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

Ring-tum Phi Opinions Election Special
Phi opinions staffers hold forth on the left, the right, and everything in between  

Discussion the key; don ’t shy away from political talk no matter what your opinion

It seems like this week
is going to be a week of
long conversations. Most
everyone’s parents will ar-
rive sometime on Friday,
bringing along with them ex-
pectations for academic
success

be able to hide behind our
money or our schooling,
and not be considered infe-
rior for being female. This
is us ya’ll. I support our
troops more than I can say,
but there is a clear differ-

ence between

a n d people who are
words of INTRODUCING." meant to be S01-
wisdom. SARADUCKV/0RTH‘()6 diers and those
This Tues- Whom are

day however, we must

make bigger decisions than
whether or not to play beruit
with our Dads, we must con-
template the election and its
outcome. Sharing a hang-
over with your parent(s)
maybe something you laugh
about for years to come, but
this Tuesday could cost us
more than we could imagine.

I’ll share a little secret
here, I’m scared to death of
the draft. I was lucky
enough to have very smart
women talk politics with me
and this topic made my
heart ache.

It seems like something
that would never happen to
us, right? Does itjust seem
too dated or “historical” to
talk about? I don’t think so.
This won’t be the draft that
Dad went through, where he
sat around the Frat house
with a bucket full of ‘you’re
screwed’ money going to
the guy with the lowest
draft number, it’s going to
be more encompassing. J

It’s a different age,

forced into be-
ing them.

But neither candidate is
wanting to start the draft,
right? Yeah well they are
also trying to win an elec-
tion here.

They are giving us re-
hearsed answers to strate-
gic questions, while talking
and not saying anything.

No one is going to vote
for someone who is going to
rip their family apart, cause
psychological damage, and
help create the bitterness
towards the government
that our parent’s generation
felt.

But this concern is only
part of a long list for why I
voted a Democratic ticket.

I asked the question to
Mimi Elrod if she could ask
the W&L community to do
one thing what would it be.
She answered, “Look be-
hind the words.” Consider
what the politicians are tell-
ing you and switch from
CNN to Fox News to NBC to
NY Times to whatever and
somewhere within that bi-

ased journalism world there
will be some truth. We take
what our parents say with a
grain of salt and ask our
friends for second opinions,
so why would we not do the
same here?

My conservative

friends have taught me to

listen and I find their opin-
ions valuable.

So don’t hide behind the
fact that you are conserva-
tive or liberal, but go starta
conversation.

Talk to your parents
about politics and your pro-
fessors. I ask you to not
just talk just to the people
who think the same way you
do, because though you will
feel legitimized you will not
learn anything.

The War in Iraq is part
of our generation, as is the
battle over a woman’s right
to have possession over her
own body and the right for
everyone to marry the per-
son they love.

So this weekend, while
you talk to your parent(s)
about football and the Red
Sox breaking the curse, re-
member to talk to them
about politics. I can’t pre-
dict what is going to hap-
pen on Tuesday, but I do
know that no.matter what
these issues are not going
to end with on that day.

The rules of the past are
over. We can talk about
politics, religion, and

where we are not going to

money, so do it!

Once again the liberal media has drummed up
another chimera, with cries that George W. Bush
will bring back the draft. Take, for example, MTV ’s
Choose or Lose campaign, CBS News (Motto: “We
really checked this time. Really”), or the pernicious
rumors ﬂying around the intemet (seriously, just
trying searching for “draft” on Yahoo). No matter
how many times the President says, “We don’t need
adraft,” the Kerry-loving mediakeeps insisting Bush
really has a secret plan to reinstate it.

Oh! Wait a second, tlrat’s
ri t! It was a Democrat that
was trying to pass legislation
foradraftintheﬁrstplace. Yes,

Rep. Charles Rangel, a Demo-
crat, was the force behind the bill. Said Rangel, “I
believe that if those calling for war knew that their

. children were likely to be required to serve-and
placed in harm’s way-there would be more caution
and greater willingness to work with the interna-
tional community in dealing with Iraq.” It has been
widely noted that only one congressman has a son
ﬁghting inlraq. However, this man, Sen Trrn Johnson
(also a Democrat) did vote to go to war in Iraq and
for all the subsequent funding measures.

With a draft, Rangel claims, “There would be a
more equitable representation of people making sac-
riﬁces.” Too bad all volunteer military isn’t dorni—
nated by minorities and the downtrodden, as Rangel
would like us to think In 2002, the most recent year
ofﬁcial data was compiled, 182,200 people enlisted
in the United States  Of these, 16 percent
were African—American, only a slight over-re -
sentation compared to the general population (Aﬁi—
can—Americans comprise 14 percent of US citizens
ages 18-24). On the other hand, Hispanics were un-
der-represented, comprising 1 1 percent of those en-
listing and making up 16 percent of the population
of 1 8-24 year old citizens.

Not to mention, those who volunteer for the
military are smarter than the average citizen. On their
aptitude test, 41 percent of recruits score in the 65th
to 99th percentiles (compared to 36 percent of the
population) and 58 percent score in the 31st to 64th
percentiles (compared to 34 percent of the popula-

‘air. '

BACKDRAFT
WHHNEY DUFFEY ‘O8

Defeated draft wasn't the Republican party’s idea, and never will be

tion). Only one percent of recruits fall into the 10th-
30th percentiles (compared with 21 percent of the
population) and no recruits at all fall into the bottom
10th percentile (as opposed to 9 percent of the popu-
lation). N inety—seven percent of the women in the
military and 94 percent of the men have high school
diplomas, while 79 percent of civilians do. Further-
more, all ofﬁcers must have college degrees.
Rangel told reporters his one of his goals in
proposing this legislation was to
jo1tAmericans. I’m sure it was quite
a jolt to him when the proposal was
overturned with an overwhelm-
ingly bipartisan vote of 402-2, and
it was probably that jolt that caused
Rangel himself to vote against his own bill.
Still believe Howard Dean and Max Cleland and
think we’re in danger of a draft?As Defense Secre-
tary Donald Rurnsfeld said, ‘The disadvantages of

_ using compulsion to bring into the armed forces the

men and women needed are notable.” Notable?
That’s quite an understatement on Rurr1rny’s part.

First of all, our armed forces are more profes-
sional and disciplined that ever, in large part due to
the extensive aptitude tests and the fact that the
men and women serviirg chose to be there. Institute
a draft, and not only will you bring in smart, able
young Americans but you will drag along the un-
motivated, uneducated, and uncooperative. An army
of conscripts will be less capable than an army of
volunteers, making a draft a poor choice for a deli-
cate operation like maintaining stability in Iraq. And
even if draftees were satisfactory, our military sim-
ply does not ﬁght in a way that requires large num-
bers of ground troops. We overwhelm foes with
technology, not hordes of infantry. .

The truth of matter is that Bush, the Defense
Department, and the Joint Chiefs will not seek to
reinstate the draft. War is often unpopular, but forc-
ing young people to ﬁght is practically intolerable
(remember how well it worked out for LBJ during
Vretnarn?) The bottom line is this: the only person in
Washington who wants a draft is Rangel. Just not
enough to vote for his own bill.

 

9 of detnezw. mm

Carissa Shipley- Vote Bush for Security

I am voting for George W. Bush. There are
some things about him and about the Republi-
can party that I don’t agree with, but I feel that
the 'good that he brings to the nation outweighs
these things. I am grateful, above all else, that I
am a citizen of the United States. I was raised
next door to the United States Air Force Acad-

. emy and there are many other military bases

nearby. Everyday, I am reminded of the actions
of our military that often go unnoticed towards
keeping us safe. While I have opinions about
abortion, social security, education, taxes,
health care, and other important issues, I really
feel that we are lucky even’ to have the luxury
of arguing over these issues. It’s freedom that
gives us this luxury and the preservation of free-
dom by the military and lawmakers alike that
determines my vote. While I feel individual free-
doms are important and I think that women
should be able to decide what to do with their
own bodies and individuals should be entitled
to keep as much of their money as possible, it
is the greater freedom that should be preserved.
The patriot act does take away some individual
freedoms but we wouldn’t even have these if
we didn’t live in a safe environment. I have read
a lot of dystopias about how the government,
being over involved can lead us down a slip-

pery slope towards an oppressive society, but

the safety that lets us be able to decide how we
live as a society can only be maintained by the
government. I completely believe that George
W. Bush is committed to preserving freedom
and safety, even if it is at the expense of some
individual freedoms, and this is why I’m voting
for him.

Anne Frnley- Ex-nght winger for Kerry
' Growing up, I always labeled myself a Republican,
though Ivnow consider myself to be an independent

This November, I am voting for Kerry. This is ex-
tremely interesting in light of the fact that a little less than
fouryears agoIwasataBushrallyinDallas.Is1illthink
GeorgeW isagoodguy,butbeingagoodpersonisnot
enough to be the best candidate for the presidency of the
United States. They arehuge shoes toﬁll, and Bushis no
longerthemantoﬁllthenrThisbeingsaid,Iamnotexactly
in love with Kerry either. If Colin Powell, Bob Dole, orJohn
McCain were on the ballot there’s a very good chance I
would vote Republican, but I can’t vote for Bush.

He makes me nervous. I am seriously wonied about
whathemightdotorestrictpersonalﬁeedomsinourcoun-
try. I care about the economy of course, but I am most
passionate about human rights and tolerance. I think
women should have reproductive rights to their own bod-
ies. I agree that partial birth abortions are abhorrent and

' should be abolished, but the woman’s health must always

be taken into account as well.
Iamallforgaymarriagebutunderstandthatmany.

people do not agree with me. Yet must our President at-

tempt to put a constitutional ban on same—sex unions? He

seemsdeterminedtounitechurchandstateanddictate

 It is the same for stem cell research, which has
more potential to save lives then anything I’ve seen in
years. . .thelistgoesonandon.

I will not profess to be a political expert. I simply am
aware of the issues that currently seem most relevant to
me and will vote accordingly. This is thejob for every
voter. Everyone must study the platforms of the candi-
dates and decide for themselves who is most in line with
what they believe and care about. I have an open mind,
feel free to come and try to convince me to vote for Bush.
Ifhehadmore ofanopen mind, perhaps Iwouldn’tbe
voting the way I am

Whitney Duffey- Bush for U. S. strength

Why am I voting for Bush? One: we need
to stay strong in the war on terrorism. Whether
or not you agreed with going to war, both sides
acknowledge that we need strong support of
our troops and to finish the job that we started.
Personally, I do not believe that Kerry will do
this. I think that instead of acting in the best
interest of our country he will be ‘swayed by
the will of foreign nations and jeopardize our
troops with dependence on these countries
which have very little concern for the well-be-
ing of America. Two: I hold the basic Republi-
can belief that lower taxes are better for the
economy. Bush worked hard to give families
tax relief," ending the marriage penalty and in-
creasing the amount of the child tax credit, as
well as reducing taxes on dividends and capi-
tal gains. These cuts have helped stimulate our
economy, making the GDP growth for the last
three quarters (+5.4%) higher than that of the
l980’s (+2.9%) and the l990’s (+3.1%). Three:
Bush will without a doubt put conservative
judges on the bench and it its likely that there
will be openings within the next four years.
Even after he is President, these judges will
ensure that Republican ideals are upheld. Four:
Bush is pushing Social Security reform that
will ensure the aging Baby Boomer generation
won’t break the system and privatization which
will allow future generations of seniors to re-
ceive better returns on their hard earned
money. Five: Bush’s scandal-free presidency
has been a general return to integrity in the
White House. I truly believe that Bush is not
only a good person but also the right one to
lead our country for the next four years.

 

K pbota caztrfegl of umirlredu

Cale y Anderson- Keny IS centnst’s choice

President Bush has, in his four years in oﬂice, at-
tempted to give our country a massive shove to the right
His social policies alone (threadbare support of stem cell
research, virulent anti-gay policies, and economics that
would shock and awe both Ronald Reagan AND Franklin
Roosevelt) are enough to makehimaquestionable incurn—
bent, buthisforeign policy seals thedeal.  and
by right ought to be, a sovereign nation with the power to
make its own choices in defending its security and peace,
but by invading Iraq in deﬁance of world opinion, and
with extremely tenuous motives, we were, in a way, emu-
latingtheveryroguestatewewereseelringtopunish.
Making choices inAmen'ca’s best interest does not mean
ignoring anyone who isn’t an American. The cost to
rebuild Iraq is massive, and it will continue to grow. As the
bill increases, who will help us pay it?

Which is why I’m voting for Kerry. He is fond of
statingapointwhichIthinkistherealheartofhisaccept-
ability as a candidate. That point is— “we should not be
closing ﬁrehouses in America and opening them in
Baghdad.” Budget problems have led to the closure of a
massive amount of public irrfrastructnre (police stations,

' ﬁrehouses, parks, libraries, etc.) in the United States, and

simultaneously we are spending hundreds of billions of
dollars building just such infrastructure in Iraq.

Kerry is not the tax-and-spend Massachusetts lib-
eralthathis opponents try sohardtoportrayhimas. Sure,
his planwillhaveArnaicapaying more taxes thanit would
under Bush, but he’s still for an overall reduction, leaving
asidethequestionofjustwhothattaxcutisgoingto. And
when it comes to social domestic issues, he makes sense.
Tobe sure, he leans left, but he’s not a complete hippie. It’s

atough choice forcentrists this year, butIthinkthatBush A

hasgonetoofar. IfGeorgeW. winsthiselect1'on,itwillbe
because a lot of moderate .center—right Republicans held
their nose as they cast their ballot for re-election.

D‘

 

  

MONDAY, NOVERMBER 1, 2004

Sophomore soccer

Star has what it takes ‘
Wiitshire leads team to victory time and time again .

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Sophomore Anne Wiltshire scored
three of the women’s soccer tearn’s ﬁve
goals against Eastern Mennonite on
Wednesday afternoon. This was not an
unusual performance by Wiltshire. She’s
been a consistent two year player, scor-
ing goals regularly and leading the team
to victory. '

Even though she’s been playing
soccer since she was 9 years old,
Wﬂtshire did not apply to college with
the intent to play soccer. “The funny
story is,” said Wiltshire, “I applied early
to UVA and didn’t really even plan to
play soccer there.”

Wﬂtshire later decided on Washing-
ton and Lee University and fell in love
with the school almost instantly. “Even
once I came here,” said Wﬂtshire, “I was
not counting on playing. I was nervous
and didn’t even know if I had what it
takes to make the team.”

VVIltshire has proven that she does
have what it takes and earned her posi-
tion. In her freshman year alone, she
started 18 out of 20 games. She earned
second team all-ODAC honors and ﬁn-
ished the season leading the Generals in

PAGE 5



points and scoring.

“The team is what comes first,” said
a modest Wﬂtshire of her success, “No
individual player creates victory for a
team. We work hard together and play
hard together. It takes the whole group.”

Her teammates think the world of
her selﬂess appearance on the field.

“Anne is a huge scoring threat and

asset up top, but she is still un-
selﬁsh and always puts the team
first,” said teammate sophomore
Jamie Dorsey.

VVIltshire is optimistic about the
year. “We’ve had our ups and downs,
but I think that we always peak just in
time for ODACs, and I know that we’ll
do that again this year and hopefully
qualify for NCAAs.”

With such a positive and support-
ive presence on the ﬁeld, Wiltshire eas-
ily wins the respect of her teammates. “I
think the great thing about Anne, is that
she plays hard and practices hard.i She
is always willing to give her all to the
team.”

A strong ﬁnish to the season is ex-
actly what the team plans "to accomplish.
Vlfith ODAC competition in progress,
Wiltshire plans to stay focused and en-
joy the sport she’s been playing for over
a decade with the girls she loves.

5

      

  

A  
HUIEN

Learn the Lingo

A Rookie’s Guide to watching The Game with the guys

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD / RING-TUM PHI

Wiltshire, left, surprised even herself when she decided to play soccer in college.

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

I once read that a girl should
never watch a football game with guys
except maybe if she is bringing food.
Although I completely disagree with
this, I understand the frustration. I
have heard girls ask how many points
each ﬁrst down is worth and how many
sacks the referees allowed each team.
Getting sports mixed up is a common
mistake, leading to questions like,
“who did you say is the point guard
for the Eagles?”

But for every girl that asks a stu-
pid question, I have met one who can
explain which routes work better on a
zone and which work on man cover-
age, and can use the words “au-
dible to a backside post” intelligently
in a sentence.

The football season is in full
swing and many girls ﬁnd themselves
on Monday nights in a frat house
watching football. Although the over-
whelming majority of girls can hold
their own in a discussion about foot-

ball, there are a few who are still mas-
tering the basics. For those ﬁve or
six, here are some hints about watch-
ing The Game.

Do not refer to any part of the
male anatomy during the game. You
may comment that the wide receiver
has good hands, and~ sometimes you
can get away with talking about the
qua1terback’s strong arm, but that is
as far as you should go. Guys don’t
realize that football uniform pants are
designed to attract the female audi-
ence.

Try to time your questions well.
Nobody likes to respond to a ques-
tion like, “now what does that little
yellow ﬂag mean?” when his tearn’s
winning kickoff return with 38 sec-
onds to go was just called back.

’ Don’t ask or attempt to change
the channel. Ever.- A

It is a good idea to read an article
about the game beforehand, but don’t
tI'y quoting from it to sound smart.
First, half of the guys in the room will
have read the same article. Also, guys
can always tell when a girl who
doesn’t know a comerback from a

quarterback starts dropping terms
like “drag-pattern undemeath” and
elaborating on the intricacies of the
West Coast offence.

In the upper—right comer of the
screen, you can ﬁnd the ofﬁcial game
clock. Stop asking how much longer
the game is going to last.

If you have a boyfriend, under-
stand that you are going to have
some serious competition for his at-
tention on Sunday afternoons. Re-
lax, he will be yours again the next
day. Well, maybe Tuesday.

Feel free to bring your knitting
to the game.

If you are particularly knowl-
edgeable about football, go ahead
and show up the guys. They some-
times forget there are girls who know
their stuff, and they almost always
have too high an opinion of their own I
sports savvy.

‘So laugh out loud when he sug-
gests that the team spike the ball on
fourth-and-four in order to have time
to get the ﬁeld- goal unit on the ﬁeld.

- Or better, explain to him his error.

Really, really slowly.

 

Wednesday

' M Soccer
at Emory and Henry——4
' W Soccer vs. Hollins--4230

 

New Opticians
Boutique

Extreme Fun!

   

 in 

° Volleyball at

° Field Hockey at

Fnday
Emory Invitational--4:30

Eastern Mennonite--5:30

4K

'5  Soccer at
Virginia ‘sX7esleyan—l1’  _

1trvitational—2 ,

.' Football at Certtre-1:38
F‘ M Soccer at I  ‘

Harnpdezr Sydney--11‘

     Saturday

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowan--1

4  B:ma      

   

i ' 4 I  ’t«- 4! 2 

4" . .. . .
I-’xaaLCA1tmNm&TrNTo¥C.wE
Omdcrfzomont rneua

Orjeia urﬁrmrtofoasrdll. rtavcazvaaratﬁxa

~Fridaylw:t8ea£uadBtmwﬂhC:abLege5¥’!pi~19PM

~  8: amwaaumterr

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator to

Oakley
Maui Jim

For all your vision needs

come to
203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

540-463-7440

www.newopticians.com

emeayeatsmommramemmznmaau
~&'0$h8t3ﬂ7 Daysawwkﬁam-11m
~i&l‘$ﬂC0lll'tﬁy%’1‘§a9tM~1'Wﬂ
~%'30W, 8%. & PM Be‘ 1'lﬁM~1'$FM
HomaCoohdIe£eaIs8’SoatIremEospituI£ty!
Order-Be_cn&st 24 HotxxxaDxy,Scvendayeaweck!

uocatedat
LEEKITRAVELPLAZA

. 1-stat:-64,Exrrr95t2st6rroa'r1:t.eartwv,Lmi~«s1ox,vtt

540-463-3478

tines-ﬁoodaagrmeaolwrtuuof
Amigcfaiaitéamﬁﬂnfayai

Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco,’ Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com.

 

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party ‘

Cruise!

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave|.com.
1-800-678-6386

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004



_ mountains,

Vista Links already drawin
New golf course in BV instantly popular due to outstanding design  

BY JOHN BOVAY
STAFF WRITER

The Vista Links opened on
former farmland just west of the
Maury River intBuena Vista to
great fanfare on August 26 after
over two years of planning and
construction. The City of Buena
Vista hired Rick Jacobson, who
has designed courses all over the
world, including the outstanding
Augustine Golf Club in Stafford,
VA, to oversee the project.

Many of Jacobson’s
courses have won awards from
various golf magazines.
Jacobson shaped a fabulous de-
sign into the rolling hills of the
Vista Links. The design blends
varying styles, drawing special
inspiration from links courses on
holes such as the second, a 587-
yard, downhill par—f1ve with two
blind shots.

When you first arrive at the
VistaLinks, the sight of
the course overwhelms you. Af-
ter driving up the newly paved
driveway to the cart barn that
temporarily serves as a pro shop
(the clubhouse will be completed
in Spring 2005), you can see the
magniﬁcent first and tenth fair-
ways playing out toward the
Blue Ridge. Every hole has a
great View of the surrounding
and elevation
changes throughout the course

give the player interesting chal-
lenges throughout.

The first hole is a 429-yard,
uphill par four that sets the tone
for the rest of the day, with bun-
kers on the left-hand side remi-
niscent of major championships
on Long Island.

The fourth, a 334-yard par

ﬁve with two semi-blind shots
around the two doglegs. The
twelfth, a great short par five
measuring 548 yards, plays up-
hill with a blind second shot to
the green. It is one of the most
challenging holes on the course.
The thirteenth, a challenging
downhill par three that plays

are among the best l’ve seen.
On the final hole, a behe-
moth par four stretching to 467
yards from the black tees, play-
ers face a seirii—blind tee shot be-
fore hitting their long second into
a well—bunkered green. When the
clubhouse is complete, it will be
an even more impressive hole.

guzzling Natty. ‘

i The course’s elevation
changes make every shot inter-
esting, but the course is so well
designed that players will never
encounter “billy—goat golf’ as is
sometimes found on mountain
courses with poor design. In-

stead, the rolling hills make for a_

“Our goal is to provide an outstanding golf

experience for our area golfers and I am

conﬁdent we can achieve this goal.”
EDWARD ARMENTROUT, GENERAL MANAGER’ or VISTA LINKS

four, is nearly drivable for a very
long hitter. The fifth, a par three
on the side of a hill, forces the
player to play to the right of the
green for safety because of the
severe slope to the left; if you hit
it left of the green, you’ll prob-
ably lose your ball. It is one of
golf course staff member Brian
Tubbs’ favorite holes.

The sixth is a 535-yard par

Tire Washington in iatvooy
ball. team had_[.its. 

a pair of, matches at the
A Invitational on Saturéaye
The ‘ﬁe neraledowneii
ranked Southwestem, I’
27,30-2I,beforc.fa1iiog‘
I A Colonels,30-18,,v34-32,)-

 



-t snapped at 19imatc1resas tgspiiit  ,:

tciiezé tics: .

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

Contact ruIep@wIu.edu to write
sports for the Phi

over a creek, is one of the pretti-
est holes on the course and an-
other of Brian’s favorites.

The fourteenth, my personal fa-
vorite, is a 370-yard par four with
trees guarding the left-hand side
of the fairway and a creek that
stretches down the entire right-
hand side before crossing the
fairway short of the small green.
Finally, the closing three holes

Every hole is unique and memo-
rable, with no boring design any-
where on the course. 4

The course has attracted
golfers from all over the state
since its opening, drawing 449
players in its first six days alone.
Although water is only in play
on four holes, the native grasses
bordering the fairways on every
hole eat up golf balls like frat boys

delightful walk. The practice fa-
cility is also great, with a full
grass driving range and a chip-
ping and putting green where a
player can definitely spend hours
without getting bored.

The Vista Links plays to
6855 yards, with a grueling rat-
ing of 74.2/ slope 140, from the
back tees; and has five sets of
tees starting at 4924 yards. With

g crowds

its excellent conditioning, par-
ticularly in the greens, and prices
less than half their competitor
here in Lexington, it’s no wonder
they’ve sold 94 memberships so
far. It’s definitely worth the extra
few minutes to drive to BV to
play.

For any serious golfer, a trip
to Lexington should include a
journey into our neighboring
town to play their great public
golf course, a treat nestled in the
shadow of the Blue Ridge and
House Mountain (neither of
which you can see from LGCC).

The general manager of the
Vista Links, Edward Annentrout,
left his job as the head pro at Lex-
ington to take advantage of the
opportunity in Buena Vista.

Armentrout said “I am de-
lighted to have the opportunity
to open such a fantastic golf fa-
cility. Our goal is to provide an
outstanding golf experience for
our area golfers and I am conﬁ-
dent we can achieve this goal. I
am also eager to begin a grass
roots initiative to develop golf
programs for golfers of all ages
and abilities in our area.”

You can call the Vista Links
for a tee time at (540) 26l—GOLF,
and visit their website at . For a
non—resident of Buena Vista,
prices range from $10 (twilight)
to $27 (weekend) to walk. Carts
are only $12 more.

9

  
 
    
   
 

‘LynchburgCollege, falling only

   ,VFf&LBiéia:e?eam A
'  Second at Sl1ow_32‘ -

Points (101293)

 Generals took second place
‘ in a show hosted by Randolph-

Maoon Women’s College and

thireepoints shy of defeating
Hollias. Junior Caitlin Lane and

, . Katie Goodrich went one-twoi:1
‘ A0pon0verFencesa.ndfreshinan "

 38 P QR T s I N BR IE F   

' ,,W&LWomen’sSoccer,,  it

W&LFootballFalIs   .

.vz9oaagewnt¢n 34-.7 (taco.    T,

Sophomore taiiback Winston
Young  for 951 yards,an;lr'
two touchdowns on 1'4 carries to
lead Biidgewater past Washing-

~ ton and Lee, 34-7, ixromc foot-T .

ball action. on Saturday aftemooiif
at Iopsort Field 5

Alice Shih took first place in I

i Walklfrot.

i9"°1”R‘.’?.’.1“‘1.»“”.i"9“."3i**5.*:.‘."7-‘*‘.‘3.’.


Downs.§§ban01§¢g1¥¥¥'(1,9!30}i_i,’ ‘ -.

The .ii‘ii£:’ashir:git/end and fgee A‘
W°nt¢n*sedva::¢ed 
was   tbze_7Ol3AC  V

Tournament within l~O.yictorfy

   

 

   

I}

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS
$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non—sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

 

l
C 0
62%;?‘ ‘Z?!
/:\Ki 3
d d Y Sh FINE Linear-rte
har si e am 0
0rcKm.ngspm.wys,wp P &ar2aS}’cx/mow
mu “Rm anda W77okzlotMone!
' Raphlne, VA 24472 ’
s4o34ss22o - 1-877-Nl'l‘-YARN Feline
Knitting cottage nestled along  creclr C036‘ HI anky Panky
which  3 fabulous selection Of N816 ~  V M V 7 L
and novelty yams, kits, needles and , 8 
accessories. Customer service from start to Al ianrle
finish with your projects. Mail orderand Honeydew
lntemet accessibility made easy.
Call for workshop & dms information.
ms 21 W. Nelson St.
Lain ton taunton
On I-Igtilf/ii‘-1g4b(:lMe:l€ln205, Rinhinz 4nu'l¢s west on 
Rowe 606. Raphine Road. Located and woriulg  __ Fri I0_5:30
farm an: arm "U-PICA" oppomanidufor fresh
fruit when in season S81 “L5
“I99 ' 5“ 10*“) ' 5”’ wed "ml 8:00 “scraper 116! sub ubi”
. 

Reserrxed exc'iusively for junior and senior students in good stcmdirzg .

aria’ gzrzzdtiates r:gfzhe' University.

 o   Please Jlisil the ring ronresentaiive at:

Elm! commons neuter -
Inner 5.2004, 10:00 3.lll. - 4:00 ILIII.
satllluay. ﬂnvgmngr 6'   Em. ""  3..lII.

For more informatiotz please vzlvitiiioww.ba{faurcollege.cnm or exit! I-866-»BALFOUR (866-225-3687). V

wwm “W mo:

 

 

at
A
BY ALEX KRAUS
‘I STAFF WRITER
The newly-released “Best of Sixpence None
the Richer” is much more of a variety platter of the
‘ career of the Texas-based sextet, rather than strictly

a collection of hits. The compilation includes a

smattering of certified radio hits (“Kiss Me,”

“There She Goes”), new songs (“Loser Like Me”),

cover versions (“Dancing Queen”), six soundtrack

g contributions, and even a bonus Japanese lan-
guage version of “Kiss Me.”

The strongest offerings on “The Best of Six-

pence None the Richer" are their best known songs

“Kiss Me” and “There She Goes” that seemed so

unavoidably ubiquitous no matter where you

turned just a few short years ago. Without doubt,

these two tracks alone are aces in this album’s

hand, and the “Best of’ gives a wider view of the

at band’s work than the self-titled album from which
these two songs were taken.

The question that looms above the heads

of all bands that have made the Christian con-

  
 

'l‘HE RIN " PHI&

53
CI)

temporary to mainstream transition is a certain
amount of ambiguity in lyric meanings. Does a
song that at first appears to be a simple love
song point to a higher power? While tracks like
“Breathe” and “Trust (Reprise)” have obvious
Christian overtones, other tracks are more am-
biguous. For example, in “Breathe Your Name”.
airy singer Leigh Nash coos, “You’re in my heart
/ I can feel your beat... When I lose control / I
can only breathe your name.” Perhaps it is a dis-
tinction that is best left to the ears of the lis-
tener. In recent memory, Evanescence have faced
the same problem, but seem to have a hard time
convincing the press that they’ve shaken their
Christian roots for music they now claim is purely
secular.

There is no question that Nash posses a cer-
tain allure in that effervescent voice of hers and
she knows how to use it properly — the cover
version of “Dancing Queen” is an astonishing rep-
lica of Abba’s original version. However, memo-
rable covers are the ones that reinterpret the song
in a new way rather than trying to reproduce it.

LIFE

Sixpence None the Richer releases new compilation

Thankfully, Sixpence opts for a bit more deviation
in their cover of Crowded House's “Don’t Dream
It’s Over.” Sixpence’s take on the song employs
the jingling guitars made memorable in “Kiss Me”
for a result that is more poppy than the source
material, if not a bit more inherently efferninate.

Nash shows off her impressive vocal range
on “Breathe,” although at times masked by a
distracting amount of studio reverb. While most
of the album skips along at the adult contempo-
rary pace, the track “Ange1tread” unexpectedly
takes a turn toward biting rock. Here, while Nash
conjures up lyrics that have spiritual connota-
tion, they resemble more an incantation than a
Christian message. She exudes, “The milky
prints of spirits near / I pray that they have lost
their fear.” However, N ash’s lilting vocals never
quite mesh with the harsh guitars, a contrast
that seems to damper any anger that the song
was trying to convey. Even still, it’s a welcome
one-off in an otherwise sonically homogeneous
album.

  

EVIlLYED\YJAR13: “
AKI‘S&LIPEEDl’IOR
EMAnFnwARDsnvI@\nUrDU

PAGE 7

“Us,” and “Too Far Gone” are more than just
filler. In particular, “Loser Like Me,” the album
opener, is a genuinely likeable track that could
easily be a hit in its own right and falls into the
musical vein of Sixpence’s past hits. Anyone who

might be looking into this album already won’t _

be turned away by the new material. “Too Far
Gone,” a piano and drum-loop driven song, does
an admirable job of catching Nash’s breathy
vocal tics in lines like “Why do I do this to my-
self? / There’s really no one else to blame” for an
effect that is altogether endearing.

Sixpence None the Richer’s success has
been a long time coming, having formed seven
years before breaking into the public conscious-
ness in 1999 with “Kiss Me.” During that time,

they have amassed a large back catalog of both I

Christian and secular songs, which comprises
the bulk of this album. For those that don’t have
the time or money to dig into the band’s full
catalog, all the best is compiled here onto one
CD — which should save you a sixpence or
two.

 

The three new songs, “Loser Like Me,”

My Uncle ’s Business debuts on Lenfest stage

BY LIGIA ABREU
STAFF WRITER

‘ When theater Professor Tom Ziegler asked playwright Bo W11-
son who he would like to direct his new play, My Uncle is Business,
at Washington and Lee, he answered with what he thought was a
joke. I

“I said ‘If I could rub a lamp I would get Tom Evans here, but
I know we can’t do that. Then [Ziegler] said ‘sure, we can do that’
and I said ‘YEAH!”’ _

Wilson, the featured playwright for this year’s Floumoy Play-
wright Festival at W&L, certainly had his wish granted.

Tom Eva ns had previously directed Servant of Two Masters at
Washington and Lee, and Ziegler was happy to bring him back for
another production. Evans is an experienced director, having worked
in theater for more than 35 years in different capacities. He spent
most of his career teaching undergraduate theater students at
Hanover College until he retired in 1999, and he has worked as a
freelance director ever since.

Evans says students at W&L are very nice and very much like
his old Hanover undergrads. Working with college students is al-
ways enjoyable, says Evans, because he believes “they’re very ex-
citing, interesting, they have open minds, they have things to learn.”

The W&L students in the cast are equally happy to have him
here. Joe Harouni ‘O5 says Evans is “incredible,” while Andrew
Rothey '08 said he is constantly challenging and pushing actors

to do better. Other cast members were equally enthusiastic in

their opinion of their guest director, saying that his experience
and friendly personality help them do their best work.

Evans is particularly pleased to be directing a never—before-
produced play. He said he likes the fact that no one has staged the
show before, so he can be the first to experiment with it. He is also
excited to see the audience’s reaction to it. “The only people who
can ever tell you whether a play is successful or not is the audience,”
he says.

And he should know; during his career in the theater, Evans has
seen audience reactions from three very different perspectives. He
is not just a director, but also a scene designer and playwright. His

 

most famous play, Yellow Dog Crossing, has been staged 10 times
despite not being published, and the 11'“ and 12"‘ productions will
probably take place within the next two years. According to Evans,
playwriting is the aspect of theater he enjoys most.

Not to say that he hasn’t had great experiences working as a
teacher and director. In fact, he is proud to say that his most famous
alumnus is Woody Harrelson, who later went on to join the cast of
Cheers and play the lead role in the movie The People vs. Larry
F lynt. 1 I I '

Evans remembers Harrelson as a bright student who could have
made all As if he had chosen to work hard, but did not. In fact, Evans
says Harrelson was nearly thrown out of a play because he was
always late for rehearsals. Evans’ wife, actress/director Barbara Farrar,
was directing the show, and grudgingly allowed Harrelson to return.

According to Evans, Harrelson’s fans should be grateful she «
did. “In that play he had a role, a small role, but it was a role that was '

rich with comedy and he got some wonderful laughs, and he says
that that’s when he decided to be an actor, because he loved getting
laughs.” '

Williams electriﬁes stage

   
 
   
 

      

   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  

W&L Bookstore Presents... _
Student Bookts) of the Week
A weekly feaua ofthe Bookstnreand the Rhg-Tum PM
This week:
w at me: mm vxxxxtma
. P. A U L
(!;9~i5.rlK?alt¢nIxol{zu lsrshauuaaum TV?‘   "F
A H CH? WING
§CON§?iRACE
L I
LOSING GUR WAY
IR IH£ KEN EENTHRY
H§lﬂt1 113 lﬂtliéﬁ Vela A ‘I115 §1?k£l§t‘tt;q
um? )uI:g.¢»»- .4»: ‘Ivan! -:>::«. )3, ::l .,y, ix/-‘ix v-2:3 Mn-A/.32
(Spomored by Young Demoerds) (Sponsored by College Republicans)
In this acclaimed critique of the Bush Attomey and Conservative Commentator
administration, Krugman declares them Mark Smith deconslructs the 10 biggeﬁ
radcals masqueracing as moderates and liberal myths, provides facts and proof to
‘- ‘ qieslions their motives on a range of expose liberal lies and hypocrisy, and
issues, particularly their tax and social delivers hard evidence on why the liberals
Security plans, which he argues are standing policies on such issues as taxes,
"obviously, blatantly based on bogus welfare. goverment spending, and defense
' arithmetic." are just plain wrong.
1 .
20% of the sales ofthis book will be donated 20% ofthe sales ofthis book will be donated
to Young Democrats. to College Republicans.
Price: $14.95 Price: $14.95
A

 

One man band entertains” students and Lex residents on eve of Halloween

Keller Williams walked slowly onstage last Sat-
urday night at the Washington and Lee Pavilion
barefoot and wearing a Jason-style hockey mask.
In light of Halloween, Williams strolled slowly and
vibrantly into his own rendition of Johnson, Young,
& Young’s “Hell’s Bells.”

Williams played the entire tune and sang be-
hind the mask, leaving the audience to wonder if he
was going to play the entire set

was during this tune (3"‘ or 4"‘ on the set list) when
Williams began to showcase his creative onstage
abilities.

After dubbing his guitar riff into his equal-
izer, Williams went from bass guitar to electric gui-
tar to drums (on a keyboard) and then to some
black thing where he literally was using only his
hands to make instrumental noise — I wish I knew

with the mask on, and if he would
show his face at all.
Sure enough, he tossed the

‘ GET CRUNK!
BLAIR CRUNK

what it was, but it was incred-
ibly entertaining.

This was only a taste of
what was to come. Williams

/

mask after the first song and began H
bobbing his head from side to side as he played for
the next two hours.

Williams rarely spoke to the crowd during his
two-hour plus set, but greeted the crowd by sing-
ing, “Good evening everyone, thank you for com-
ing _to the show, hello.”

Williams played nearly constantly and took very
few breaks ingbetween songs. In fact, it was often
difficult to tell when he switched from one song to
the next because the guitar would just segue into
the next song so perfectly. ,

This often lasted for four or five songs in a row.
The crowd really started to respond to Keller’s mu-
sic when he gave W&L his best shot at Sublime’s
“What I Got,” letting the crowd sing the chorus. It

continued his musically cre-
ative brilliance and rocked the Pavilion until just
past midnight and kept the energetic W&L stu-
dents/hippies and townies noddling into the early
hours of Halloween.

This concert was not only one of the best con-
certs I have been to since coming to W&L, but also
one of the best that I’ve seen anywhere in my entire
life.

The small size of the venue, the large amount of
people that came to show, the enthusiasm of the
crowd as well as that of Keller, and the excellent plan-
ning on the part of the GAB led to one fantastic
evening with Keller Williams.

Check the Virginia native out at http://
www.kellerwilliams.net. Become a Freak.

BIueRidge
Prrrsrcm. THERAPY

Care with you in mind
463-5888
728 North Lee Hwy
Lexington, ‘VA
(College Squaw shopping center)

John 3:1 6

Specializing in:

Orthopedics
Sports Medicine
Spinal Mobilization
Post»-OP rehabilitation

Please call or stop by to speak with one ofour staﬁ”
members with any questions you may have concernmg yaw”
treatment, or your insurance.

 

the Phi

Section

Love Life?
Come work for

Arts & Life

24450
540-463-1934
www.agnor'sgunwor'ks.com

OF FIREARMS

Agnor’s Gun Wor-ks,LLC

"Gunsmithing"283 Edgars Way ~ Lexington, VA

TRANSFERS ~ SALES BLUING ~
NICKEL PLATING REPAIRS ON ALL TYPES

 

 

 

THE

PAGE 8

  

’l’lil'.EZ%1 R1x3<;~r::i;rl Put

AST ORD

EMILYFDWARDS

AKIS&LIFEEDl'IOR

EMALuJwARDsu\4@wLuEDU

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

Potato ‘Man provides to do/not to do listfor parents  

It’s finally here!!! I have been waiting for this weekend
for over a month. No,.I am not talking about Buffalo Creek,
Christmas Weekend, or Fancy Dress. I am talking about Pay-
day Weekend, better known to the rest of you as Parents’
Weekend.

I call it Payday Weekend. because this is the weekend
that I get paid for all ‘my hard work over the last few weeks,
and trust me I have spent weeks preparing for this event. I
did things no person my age should have to do. I did laun-
dry. I don’t do laundry, but for the sake of
Payday Weekend, I did.

See, most students at this school wait for
Parents’ Weekend to do their laundry so that
their mom can do it for them. I know better.
My chances of getting some cash will increase exponentially
if my mom doesn’t have to do my laundry that weekend. Now

V I am just hoping that I get paid enough money to cover the

countless white shirts that are now pink and sweatshirts that
I shrunk.

My room is now completely different than it was a month
ago. No longer are there pictures of half naked Anna
Kournikova and Marissa Miller covering my walls, but in-
stead there are pictures of family vacations and books rented
from the library covering my desk.

The only thing I stopped short of doing this year was
getting a haircut. I know that this is going to cost me major
brownie points, but my hair is just soifratastic that I didn’t
have the heart to get a trim.

Because of all my hard work, I expect more thanjust cash
from my mom. I expect not to be embarrassed, which is never
a problem. It is never a problem because I have created a “to
do/not to do” checklist for my mom and any other parents
making the trip to Lexington.

W POTATO MAN 3-
MARSHALL RULE

1. Do not tell your child that their friends are really
good looking. This goes not only for moms but more so for
dad’s. Moms can sort of get by saying that their kid’s friends
are good looking; it sounds more like a compliment. But
when dads say that their kid’s girl friends are good looking,
it sounds really creepy. '

2. Going along with number 1, is that you, as parents,
single or married, are not allowed to hook up with your kid’s
friends or their parents. Yes, this seems obvious, but I’ve

heard the stories, so don’t let it happen.

After meeting a girl, do not ask your
son why they aren’t dating her, and visa versa.
However reverse psychology is allowed if you
really don’t want your kid to date a certain
person. “Hey honey, why don’t you ask that girl that’s wear-
ing way too much makeup in the fishnet stockings out on a
date. She’s cute.”

4. Do drink a few Gin and Tonics at the Cocktail par-
ties. Do not hit the Gin Bucket.

5. Do get a little tipsy; you’re spending a lot of money
sending us to college, and you deserve to have a little fun
too. Do not stand shirtless on the bar dancing to “Pour
Some Sugar on me.”

6. When in doubt about whether something is accept-
able, don’t do it. Always error on the side of caution.

I did my part this week, and if you do your part, this
weekend will be very enjoyable for all of us. We have missed
you (and your money) and are glad you (and your wallet)
made the trip. This is the weekend, where we prove to you
that we have been living somewhat like normal human be-
ings.

We are glad to have you, but if you want to come back
next year you better not embarrass me.

EWWWW Gnoss. Parents, don’t pull a Woody Allen this weekend.
Remember not to tell your child that their freiends are really good looking,
even if you think so.

www.thefacebook.com fadsweeps Washington and Lee campus  

~ BY KRISTINE EARLY
THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL

This is my fifth attempt
to sit down and write an ar-
ticle for my column. The
problem hasn’t been
writer’s block. I can write a
thousand words about any-
thing. And because this is a
weekly paper, eventually I
probably will. (lfl start writ-
ing about the mating habits
of white tailed deer, please
Erin Julius, remove me from
the staff.)

And no, procrastina-
tion hasn’t been an issue ei-
ther. I love to write. I look
forward to sitting down
each week and pounding
out a few hundred words on

 

Class Junior Year And Ex-
changed Little More Than
Five Sentences The Entire
Semester, But I Think That
Qualifies Us As Friends” or
“Mr. I Was Really Creepy
Back In High School And
Stalked You For A Full Year,
But Aren’t You Over That
By Now?” See the immense
opportunities for network-
ing here? I mean, it is pos-
sible the Mr. Creepy has
blossomed into the Ulti-
mate Frat Lord. (It hap-
pens.)

Don’t worry.’ I jest. I

FACEBOOK ME! The website wwwthefacebookcom has become a hit on campus since  added to the database on October 26. Pictured from left
to right are “The Milk and Cheese G' ” herself, Kristine  Arts & Life Editor  Edwards; “The Potato Man,” Marshall Rule, Photo Editor Corbin
Blackford; Opinions Editor Caley Anderson; ManagingEditor Chris Lauderman; and News Editor Sarah Murray. All have joined thefacebook You should too.

I

love “thefacebook” just as
much as you. It is a much
.superior distraction to read-
ing AIM profiles. There
truly is no comparison.

  

my trusty Dell lab top
(which isn’t so trusty).

So, since avoidance
isn’t an issue, I haven’t
been taking excessive “wa-
ter” and “bathroom” breaks.
(It’s surprising how thirsty
you get when you are sup-
posed to be writing up a lab
report.)

No, I have yet to write
my article is because I am
too busy poking people.
Yes. That’s right. You heard
me correctly. I am too busy
poking people.

For those of you who
are now thoroughly con-
fused, I’m telling you now,

drop the paper and go sign
on to www.thefacebook.com.
I’m serious. If you haven’t
registered you shouldn’t
be reading this. But more
importantly, if you haven’t
registered, where have you
been in the last week?
Honestly, are you oblivi-
ous? ,
“Thefacebook” has be-
come my new favorite dis-
traction. It is the perfect way
to occupy time. I can look at
my friends’ profiles. I can
look at my friends’ friends’
profiles. Heck, ifI am in a re-
ally desperate way, I can
look at my friends’ friends’

friends’ profiles.
_“Thefacebook” is ad-
dictive. It calls to me. It has
the power to pull me
straight from my deeply en-
gaging textbooks right to
the computer screen‘. I can
see a problem developing
here.
“Mom, Dad, look, I know my
GPA isn’t that great. Look...
It’s not the partying. It’s

something worse:
‘thefacebook’.”
“Thefacebook” is an

insomniac’s best friend. Still
up at 4 am? Don’t worry. You
don’t have to resort to
watching infomercials for

 

U! S

(I) Raise your hand if you missed the deadline for
your absentee ballot.

<1) The riding team cannot be stopped this year.

CI) Day 471: Still no SPE.

(I) $20 says that the election results are delayed
until Thursday, when.\Bush attempts to pull a glock
on Kerry and wins the cell next to Martha S. in-
stead.

CI) Don’t be those freshman who made the Colon-
nade in Chocolate Mousse. A

<1) Weeknight booty calls are sexy.

CI) FYI: Chi Psis DO put out. If you’re ugly, that’s
unfortunate, but even Chi Psis have standards.

<1) I heart Tucker Carlson.

(I) Come next fall, thefacebook.com is going to be

so much more useful than the freshman facebook. .

<1) More on the facebook: The facebook rocks my
world.

<1) Another on the facebook: I hate the facebook.

<1) Last one: thefacebook.com is the best complete
waste of time ever.

<1) Taylor Hanson needs a haircut.

(I) Jamie from texas wants there to be a quick hit
about her.

(I) Has any one seen Megan Ward lately? Love
those red heads. BTW, she’s hot and single.

<1) I suck at eye contact.

(I) 1:22 am on a school night is too late for a booty
call... imean, booty text....

(I) Why is there an article about the Ultimate
Frisbee team that is 3x the size of the football one?
I think the football team demands more respect
than that.

<1) Yeah yankee fans, how do you feel now?

CI) David Ortiz and Johnny Damon are my heroes.
Rock on!

<1) Nabors Network meeting, room 345, 7pm Tues-
day: be there. ’

juicers and food dehydra-
tors anymore. (Although at
four in the morning Ron
Popiel doesn’t look so bad.)

I try to convince myself
that the action of perusing
“thefacebook” every
twenty minutes isn’t a
waste of time. (OK. Who am
I trying to kid? Every ten.
Wait. Don’t judge! You do
it, too.) After all, I am learn-
ing a lot of important
things.

For example, thanks to
“thefacebook.com” .I have
come to the epiphany that
W & L students “like to
party.” This sure was sur-

<I) GOOO RED SOX! WAYTO BEATTHEM CAR-

DINALS!

<1) Brett Strohsacker is too hot for words.

(I) Just so that the intellectuals know: I am not
now nor have I ever been a chicken head. A loud-
mouthed, over—opinionated hottie, yes; chicken

head no. Get it right next time.

(I) Afterrcareful debate we’ve decided that #71
on the football team does indeed have a cute butt.

Go Generals! !

(I) It’s a happy a day in history for Art history
majors. Th e cave paintings in Lascaux, France

were discovered in 1940.

<1) Congratulations to the cross country. team for

winning ODACS.

A <1) Woohoo, today is World Vegan Day!

(I) Happy Birthday Larry Flynt.

(I) I hope we know who the president will be to-

morrow night.

<I) Note to fathers: Just because you are a daddy
doesn’t mean you are a mack daddy.

<1) Way to go‘GAB for bringing in Keller. Good

choice.

<1) Please open the coop at noon on Sundays

prising news to me. And
were you aware thatthe
overwhelming majority of
students on this campus in-
tend to vote for Bush tomor-

I row? Or that “Zoolander” is
a popular movie amongst
college—goers? Can’t you
just see how much insight
I’m gaining?!

The best thing about
“thefacebook” is recon-
necting with people from
high school. I mean, there
is nothing better than
opening up your mailbox
and seeing a message sent
from “Miss We Sat Beside
Each Other In English

“Thefacebook” has pic-
tures. In fact, I feel like a
lowly human being when I
right—click and scroll down
to “Get Buddy info.” It just
doesn’t hold the same allure

anymore. The joy of it has

been sucked away by bigger
and better technological
feats.

I’m sure “thefacebook”
is just a fad. In a month or
two it will be old news.
But, I’ll worry about that
later. I’m too busy for that.
I have the urge to poke
someone.

(1) Dark comes sooner now. That sucks a lot.

<1) I asked John Kerry to be my friend on
thefacebook.com and he didn’t respond.

<1) I poked Clinton on thefacebook, but Lewinsky
poked me back. ’

<1) The only thing better than reading sports, is writ-
ing sports. '

<1) Allgood and Hackett looked awesome ‘as the Reno
91 1 guys.

<1) If the commons staff actually wants people to
come to their events, maybe they should have cho-
sen to show Fox News on Election Night.

<1) What’s up with the College Republicans and the
Young Democrats having a joint elections return
party?

<1) Jon Stewart would be/proud.

<1) Shouldn’t the early morning version of Larry
King Live be Larry King Replay. Just something to
think about.

<1) I sympathize with Ashlee Simpson. I have acid
reﬂux too.

<1) Students AND parents, send your anonymous
crazy parent’s weekend stories and quick hits to
phi@wlu.edu

 

F‘ Arch
5372.155

R552
\/.107‘
Mr‘, H
c. 7,.



Parents, family co
Alumni reminisce about ,

 

past Parents’ Weekends

BY KATHERINE SI-[ELL
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Every Parent’s Weekend,
as hundreds of mothers and fa-
thers descend upon our campus,
we are bound to hear various sto-
ries from alumni, describing their
own college experience in rela-
tion to ours. Though we can’t
imagine a W&L different from
our own, the place they describe
often seems to be something from
another planet.

The first thing Dr. George
Ballantyne, ’79, of Newnan, Geor-
gia, noted as being starkly differ-
ent than it was when he was in
college was Lexington itself.

‘The entire town is neater
and cleaner,” he said, and his
wife, Missy Ballantyne, who at-
tended Randolph—Macon
Women’s College, said “The
town has really spruced up. Of
course, Papagallo, Alvin Dennis,
and College Town Shop were
there, but that was it.”

She also remarked on the
wonderful restorations of the
Theater, which reopened last
year. Dr. and Mrs. Ballantyne
have two children at W&L,
Patricia, ’05, and Mitch, ’06.

The Ballantynes said,
though, that they believed the
social scene to ultimately be the
same.

“Girls would come down

from girls’ schools,” Dr.
Ballantyne said, “so there were
always girls around.”

Mrs. Ballantyne remem-
bered the boarding houses that
used to be open for girls across
the street from SAE. “They
would charge us twenty dollars
a night, and have several twin
beds in one room. That way, we
didn’t have to drive over the
mountains in the middle of the
night, although some people still
did.” When asked about the
strictness of the boarding
houses, she replied, “Well, we all
had to be back at school at a cer-
tain time, and the renters asked
us to sign in and out, but they
were all pretty lenient.”

The only difference Dr.
Ballantyne saw was the Univer-
sity control of the campus.

“The University didn’t
own the [fraternity] houses, so
we would destroy them, break-
ing windows and such. The Uni-
versity had no control, I don’t
even remember there being a
house mother.”

Of course, without the Uni-
versity owning the fraternity
houses, many of the houses were
not as nice as they are today.

“It was like ‘Animal
House,”’ Mrs. Ballantyne added.

Other alumni, such as Mike
Colpoys, ’75, and Jim Lancaster,

 

_ stories al

ANNUAL TRADITION. Students and their parents walk past charity fundr

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

I   NG-TUM

 

Emory and Henry during Parents’ Weekend activities.

’79 have stories about doing
things the students today would
not consider doing. Both have
 ‘iving a car down
the Collonade at night. The cars
then must have been a great deal
smaller to fit in between the build-
ings and the columns. Mr.

Lancaster has a daughter, J ane,
who is a sophomore at W&L.
The academic scene
was also very different. Until the
school went co-ed in 1985, the
admissions and school work was
not as rigid as it is today. “Aca-
demics are a lot more difﬁcult.

VOLUME CVHf,NO. 14

Tie Iiiideiii voice of Wax/iiogioo and U6 Uoiversziyiiiite 7897
I1V€fg€ OI1

Lexingto for annual Weekend

aisers as they enter \X/ilson Field to watch

The competition is tougher now
that the lower half academically
of the school has been ﬁlled with
smart girls,” says Dr. Ballantyne.

Overall, though, our
school has managed to stay the
same for the majority of W&L’s
history, a thing most alum and

PI ll

    

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004

 

 
   

SAHAR KAMAl.l
the Generals’ football team defeat

students are proud of. We can
share and compare stories from
our own college career with
alumni who graduated thirty or
forty years ago. Hopefully, our
campus will continue to remain
the same for generations to
come.

THE RING-TUM

 

Parents’ Weekend is a boon
for Lexington area businesses

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

The buzz on Lexington’s streets has dimmed,
hotels have cleared out, sidewalk trafﬁc has all but
disappeared and small businesses downtown tally
up sales totals as parents and families of Washing-
ton and Lee students return home after the
University’s armual Parents’ Weekend.

For many small businesses downtown, Par-

 

weekend than on most regular weekends.

Next door, at The Potting Shed, owners John
and Faith Vosburgh estimated their sales this
weekend at 30 percenthigher than most regular
weekends.

Stephen Robbins, president of Hamilton-
Robbins on Main Street said that Parents’ Week-
end has historically been a boost to his busi-
ness.

“It’s comparable to the day after Thanks-

ents’ Weekend giving,” he
means big busi- said and es-
ness and sales timated that
are comparable his store
to one of the re- had a 75 per-
tail industry’s cent in-
biggest sale crease in
days — Thanks- sales over a
giving. typical
“It was a weekend.
busy week- Other
end,” said Patty businesses,
Neofotis, likeGraden
ownerofACor- Shoe Com-
ner of Lexing- pany, Inti-
ton gift shop. mate U, and
“Weso1dalot College
oflamps  and Town Shop,
C h r i s t In a s ﬁTHAN]AM1=.soN ‘ -TUM offered ex-
decorations GETTING DOWN TO BUSINESS. Local area businesses love our parents. t e n d e d
and silk ﬂowers.” shopping hours on Sunday in anticipation of Par-

Neofotis also attributed her increase in sales
this weekend to tourists passing through town and
the good weather experienced in the area and esti-
mated that sales were “probably double” this past

ents’ Weekend.
About 700 parents registered for Parents’
Weekend this year with almost 1600 family mem-

bers attending University—held events.

Demand for college Arabic

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

Student enrollment in Arabic language
classes at U.S. colleges and universities reached
record highs and increased more than 92 percent
between 1998 and 2001, according to a recent sur-
vey released by the Modem Language Associa-
tion, a group of educators and scholars.

“Demand for Arabic has increased enor-
mously at the University of California, Santa Bar-
bara,” said Nancy Gallagher, chair of the University’s
Middle East Studies program. “We had 56 students
sign up for ﬁrst year Arabic. In the past we usually
had about 20 students.”

Growing interest led the university to add a
new section of Arabic this fall. Gallagher added
that demand for colloquial Egyptian Arabic also
remains high and the program recently had to sub-
mit a request to the administration “for additional
funds to support the increased demand for Ara-
bic.”

lt’s the same across the country. Enrollment
has quadrupled in the past two years at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania. At Georgetown University,
where 370 students make up the largest Arabic pro-
gram among U.S. colleges, enrollment is up 36 per-
cent over last year.

Enrollment in Arabic classes at the Univer-
sity of Michigan increased 50 percent this fall from
the same time last year and burgeoning enrollment
in Arab Culture classes capped 96 percent com-
pared with last winter.

Raji Rarnrnuny, professor of Arabic language
and applied linguistics at the University of Michi-

Board of Trustees and IFC attempt to clarify alcohol policy

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR—lN—CHIEF

In an effort to clarify Washington and Lee
University’s alcohol policy, last week Philip
Norwood, Rector, of the Board of Trustees sent a
letter the Ring-tum Phi and the Trident. Both carn-
pus newspapers printed the letter, which enumer-
ated ﬁve speciﬁc provisions regarding alcohol.

Through this letter and a meeting with the
Inter—Fraternity Council, the Board has made clear,
“that they wanted students to comply to all rel-
evant guidelines concerning alcohol and the ad-

-ministration to enforce,” said Thomas Pickering,

President of the IFC. “There is no higher power at
the University than the Board.”
The IFC has asked the fraternities to make

I some speciﬁc changes, “We asked fraternities to
identify their of-age members with a marking so

only they could be served by a TIPS trained bar-
tender,” he said.

Thus far, the IFC is expecting fraternities
to, “put forth a good faith effort to comply with
University policy,” Pickering said.

Each individual fraternity is expected to
monitor their own functions. This past weekend,
the IFC did visit fraternity leaders and also observed
the party environment at fraternity houses.

According to Margo McClinton, Director
of the Commons, no changes have been made to
University policy. A

“I can say that there has been no change in
University Policy. University Policy has derived
from three elements state and local law, the rules of
the national fraternity organizations, and». the rules
of the University,” she said.

Fraternity nationals will also be expected
to play a role. “The national headquarters have

been, and will be in correspondence with chapters
to convey the level of enforcement,” said
McClinton.

The IFC is monitoring fraternity compli-
ance itself. “We want the individual fraternities to
be able to monitor and audit their own functions
because fraternity men are adults and should be
treated as such,” said Pickering.

“Everyone is asked to monitor,” said

.McClinton. “This is a joint effort. The IFC has

asked students to be honest about their behavior
and hold one another accountable."
Should a fraternity breaches the Univer-

sity alcohol policy, the IFC Judicial Board would

process the‘ violation.

“This is not easy for anyone, but it is worth a
try. The safety of others depends on on our ef-
forts; we cannot afford to wait for something bad
to happen,” said McClinton.

classes increases significantly

gan, said, “The ‘new’ generation of students want
to study Arabic language and culture for profes-
sional and career purposes.

“An important factor is the increasing num-
ber of ‘heritage’ students of Arab/Muslirn descent
after Sept.11 for preservation of heritage and ca-
reer—oriented purposes,” said Rammuny about the
spike in enrollment.

Since Fall ’02 at the University of Virginia,
enrollment in Arabic classes has been “unprec—
edented," said Mohammed Sawaie, a professor of
Arabic at UVa.

“In beginning Arabic we have  102 stu-
dents,” said Sawaie. “This number far exceeds any
other Asian language at the University.”

These ﬁgures correspond with ﬁgures in the
report released by the MLA. According to the
Association’s ﬁgures, the increase in Arabic en-
rollment makes it the second highest foreign lan-
guage enrollment increase, after American Sign
Language (ASL).

Sawaie attributed the signiﬁcant increase to
“interest in the Middle East due to the war on Iraq,
[and the] need for Arabists in the various govem—
ment agencies.” He also believed that UVa.’s prox-
imity to Washington, D.C. and the rise of a new
generation at the University whose families origi-
nate from the

Middle East or South Asia had an impact on
the University’s enrollment increase.

Khadija Bentouharni, an Arabic instructor at
Virginia Military Institute,'agrees that the enroll-
ment has also changed on the VMI campus.

See Arabic on page 2

  

 

'  direction of Washingté  .»
overrtfre nerd  iviil  ‘

Strategic Ptan,ii3£zhdi,th‘esi

    
    
  
  

on Manda); Niééttzbet
DuP0I_2tAuditof'f_t " .5
and vsigniﬁca'nt‘v‘o ca. ,
plan. I 1715: planning sessile  ii;
Fryeart educational co”
planning sessiorftsforthe‘ ‘
versity of Virg4iriio,=.a.§ wjelll _ :
ingtonand Lee, m'zz_   J‘ A lg
rive three-hourgplqniningi
4 Please attend   _

 

 

-x_‘,i‘._ ‘ _ ":7 ‘. l_t
.._ ..-

L,-?‘\t\.“.~r'.1I<’i-'«‘i=":o
up at) :,/[\> ‘:"l.1r’l:m

PAGE 2 NOV 0 92304

 

'E'll-.l?.l?*.'xii-'ll“.‘-Ill‘-3

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004

NEWS

Physics and engineering professor
left mark on W&L community

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
I MANAGING EDITOR

Robert Akins, the Robert
Lee Telford Professor of Phys-
ics and Engineering, died at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital last
Wednesday after battling cancer.

“In Bob’s twenty years on
the Washington and Lee faculty,
he contributed signiﬁcantly in
many arenas: in the classroom,
academic programming, plan-
ning of new facilities and cam-
pus environmental concerns, to
name a few,” said W&L Provost
Thomas Williams. “His contribu-
tions to the improvement of
Washington and Lee will serve
as a memorial to him. He will be
greatly missed.”

Akins has been on staff at
W&L for 20 years. During his
tenure, he “transformed the pro-
gram into the more comprehen-
sive engineering major offered
today, enabling our students to
go into essentially any engineer-
ing field,” said Professor Ken-
neth Van Ness, chairman of the
Physics and Engineering Depart-
ment.

While on faculty, Akins
was largely responsible for
bringing the intemet to the W&L

COURTESY W&L NEws OFFICE

WE WILL MISS YOU. The Robert Lee Telford Professor of Physics and
Engineering poses for a picture. Akins taught at W&L for 20 years.

campus. He founded and chaired
the Environmental Planning and
Management Committee. Akins
also played a crucial role in mak-
ing sure the environment was not
harmed when the Elrod Commons
was built.

Akins was an expert in the
effects and uses of wind. His re-

Post Election 2004  
SVU, WLU, VMI students speak out about the election

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

In an election where Vir-
ginia could have gone to either
candidate, many local college
students registered locally so
their vote would mean more.

Madeline Walk, a Southern
Virginia University student, orga-
nized a get-out—the-vote cam-
paign for her campus. All 68 stu-
dents that Walk registered chose
to register in Virginia.

Walk said that many SVU
students are from Utah, which is
a sure thing for Bush.

“Students wanted to reg-

ister in Virginia so they could
make a difference,” Walk said.

According the Walk, this is
the first year the students in
Buena Vista were allowed to reg-
ister in Virginia. Previously, the
registrar would not register them
because students are “transient
citizens,” Walk said.

Virginia Military Institute
appears to be another school
where the conservative vote
reigns.

Andrew Upshaw, a cadet
involved with College Republi-
cans at VMI, said the war on ter-
ror is an issue with resonance to
VMI cadets.

search, which included airborne
pollutants, led to the develop-
ment of performance standards
for wind turbines used to gener-
ate energy.

“Bob had the uncommon
capacity to be honest and self-
aware of his considerable tal-
ent—he was good at virtually ev-

“A lot of kids here, includ-
ing myself, are going intothe mili-
tary and whoever will be their
commander in chief definitely
concerns them,” he said. “I’d say
the majority of the people here at
VMI support President Bush and
the way he has handled to war
on terror.”

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has also seen a ﬂurry of
political activity lately.

W&L student Kelly Jo
Larsen, a Democrat, ran a cam-
paign to register students locally.
Larsen registered about 30 stu-
dents locally, about half Repub-
lican and half Democrat.

erything he committed himself
to——and yet at heart remained
modest and unassuming,” said
Washington and Lee University
President Thomas G. Burish. “He
had the inquisitive and critical
mind of a scholar but the soul of
a poet who could ﬁnd great re-
ward in common things. All who
witnessed his last months were
moved and enriched by the opti-
mism, courage, and openness
with which he dealt with his iH—
ness. He was truly an inspiration
for how to live life, how to share
it with others, and how to leave
it..”

Akins was also active in
the Lexington community. He
served for several years on the
Lexington planning commission
and served as its chairman and
also was a member of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.

A memorial service will be
held Friday, Nov. 12, at 2 p.m. at
the Lexington Presbyterian
Church on the corner of Main
and Nelson streets. Harrison Fu-
neral Home, located in Lexington,
is handling arrangements. Dona-
tions in Akins’s memory may be
made to the American Cancer So-
ciety or to the Dr. Chris Thomas
Research Fund at the University
of Virginia.

“A lot of our students live
in states that stand no chance of
going Democrat,” Larsen said.
“They were interested in regis-
tering here so that their vote
might count more.”

Daniel Fassio, a student
leader in the Young Democrats,
credits Florida’s confusion in the
last election for the high voter
registration this year.

“I think this election has
really energized voters in gen-
eral, but maybe not for the right
reasons. “With the debacle of last
elections’ logistics, I think people
want to feel like they are in fact
electing the president and there

Arabic classes

Continued from the Front Page

“It’s been affected in a very, very striking way,” said
Bentouharni who added that enrollment in her language classes
since 2001 has increased more than 100 percent.

Other than language courses, VMI has developed other
Arab-related courses to meet students’ interest in the region and
their growing demand for knowledge.

Bentouharni said that a course titled “Arab Civilization and
Culture,” developed at VMI to “help our students be open to the
world,” was proving to be “quite popular.”

This interest has proven so widespread that VMI now of-
fers a major in the language. The Institute currently boasts seven
Arabic majors and seven double majors.

Bentouharni said that incentives for cadets to take Arabic
differ and ranged from having the language on their resumes, to
post-9/ ll interests. She also stressed the growing interest in VMI’s
study—abroad program with the Arabic Language Institute of Fez
(ALIF)-

“When they go abroad, they change their incentive, get to
appreciate the people, and~ look back and question their first in-
centives, insights and understanding,” said Bentouhami.

Wilson Nance, a VMI junior from Richmond, Va., wanted to
experience Arab culture and spent last summer in Morocco through

- the agreement between VMI and ALIF.

“Being able to travel to a part of the world and speak in
Arabic was an incredible feeling,” said Nance. “You leam so
much, and I appreciate it so much more.”

Only about 10 percent of Arabic language students become
proﬁcient enough to hold a professional job requiring Arabic.
After three years of Arabic classes, Nance claims he is npwfluent
enough to hold conversations with people, but is not yet fluent
enough to talk about human nature and politics.

“Once you progress, people drop out,” Nance said. “With
the Rats [VMI freshmen], they really want to take it. They know
about the job opportunities for Arabic speakers.”

Career opportunities for Arabic speakers are abundant. Af-
ter graduation, Nance is considering spending a few years in the
Marines before joining the private sector.

isn’t going to be confusion,”
Fassio said.

Fassio believes social is-
sues, such as education, welfare
and abortion, are driving young
voters at W&L.

“College students, I think,
have a keen eye on the economy,
since we’re the ones who will be
looking for jobs and hoping to
keep them,” Fassio said.

Students at all the local
schools believe focus is‘on the
presidential race.

“We’ve drawn a line in the
sand between Republicans and
Democrats, and I’ve read stud-
ies that people are reporting that

they are more likely to vote strict
partisan in these elections than
in the last ﬁve presidential elec-
tion cycles,” Fassio said. “Many
people will determine their local
votes from their presidential
vote. It’s a sad state of affairs in

American politics when people '

refuse to look at issues and only
look at party.”

Jackson Mabry, of W&L’s
College Republicans, agrees that
students are generally. not‘ aware
of local campaigns, “although
College Republicans does gen-
erate quite a bit of involvement
with local Congressional cam-
paigns,” he said.

 

The highly anticipated election night at-
tracted many students to the television and cre-
ated an unusual campus buzz for a Tuesday night.
Staff at the University Commons planned to host
student gatherings throughout the Elrod Commons
on Tuesday. Separate lounge areas were equipped
with televisions devoted to speciﬁc media cover-

My favorite part was the
Kappa Sig cocktail party.

-KATHY ANGELICO, PARENT

ELECTION NIGHT PARTY

Seeing parents party like
kids.

-MAGGIE CANBY ‘07

age, including CNN and MSNBC, while FOX News
was notably absent from the list.

But by 9 p.m. Tuesday evening, only a hand-
ful people had gathered for the planned events.
One of the lounges was completely vacant and the
T.V. had not yet been turned on.

Many students however ﬂocked to an off-

I never have my parents
here, I’m from Europe.

-VIRGINIA VESELINOVA ‘O5

campus party at “Old House," located across from
the Outing Club on Washington St. The social
gathering was co-sponsored by College Republi-\\

cans and Young Democrats.

The crowded house was full of Democrats \
and Republicans displaying their support for can-
didates Bush and Kerry through stickers, pins, and

Seeing how your friends. are
a product of your parents.

-JEAN-RosE CLAWATER ‘07

 

"Seeing who’s weirder, your
friends or your parents.

-CHRIS APPLEWHITE ‘06

t-shirts. Blue and Red beer was offered from sepa-
rate kegs, allowing students to further express their
partisan beliefs.
I Fans of FOX News were pleased to discover
that the Old House party also offered unrestricted
coverage of their favorite news station.
-SENIOR STAFF WRITER ROB ARMSTRONG

Parents can see their
kids...integrated into the
workings of campus.

-JULIAN LEDFORD 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

mi_';RINc—rur1'l’ut
STAFF EDITORIAL
Veterans’ Day Must Be Observed

In our years at this fine Univer-

' sity, we’ve watched federal holidays
come_and go, with little to no celebra-
tion at all on this lackluster campus.
This year, we refuse to sit by idly while
Veterans’ Day ﬂies by with nary a
word. ‘ , ‘

We’re not asking to skip classes
on Veterans’ Day (although that would
be nice, especially considering that
federal employees will get the day
off). We are asking for recognition
of all the lives lost in the name of this
country. .

Especially in this time of war,
where young men are dying for this
country every day, we need to recog-
nize the individuals who work hard
every day to defend our country.

The sacrifices that Veterans make,
and have made, not only enable our
existence as a nation, but enable us,
on an individual level, to study and
W&L and to enjoy the lives that we
have here. It is therefore fitting that
we, the students at W&L, honor our
Veterans in a significant way.

Possible tributes for future Veter-
ans’ Days include a memorial service,
special speaker brought in to discuss
Veterans’ issues. Forums such as
these would raise awareness of criti-
cal Veteran issues.

On a personal level, students and
faculty could take up a collection of
money or goods for a local Veterans’
home. Sending cards or visiting the
VA hospital in Roanoke would be an-
other kind and thankful gesture.

The bottom line is that our Veter-
ans are heroes. They are the ones
who allow us to be free and to pros-
per. The gift that they have given to
our nation as a whole and to us as in-
dividuals is beyond price, and ought at
least to be recognized in this minor, '
relatively triﬂing way.

   

 te of the Week

“State police Lieutenant Eric Wolford said
Ellis allegedly offered each voter $25 and a
bottle of whiskey if they would support a
certain local candidate.”

~The Louisville Channel

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin. Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst: Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

, Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily I-Iulen

Business Manager 4 David Seifert

Circulation Director ' Rob Rain

Asst. Circ. Directors Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara
Stephen Lipscomb
Amanda Tholke

Distribution Dir
Copy Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@w1u.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

 RiN<1;—*mi ’

   

CAiEYANDErsoN
OPINIONS Eonor

Em m

lNl “Ns

   

United States needs a ‘Madame President’

Have you ever had one of those moments
where you realize how hard people before you
have fought for what they believed in and your
accomplishments to date suddenly seem in-
consequential in comparison? I recently went
to KEWL’s showing of Iron—Jawed Angels, an
amazing and inspirational film about radical
suffragists who picketed a war-time president
and held voluntary hunger
strikes in prison to, get their
point across. Leaving the
theater, I wondered if I would
ever have a cause that I be-
lieved in passionately enough to spend my
life, or years of my life, fighting for it. Have all
of the major battles been fought?

Not by a long shot. Thinking about elec-
tions, and spurred on by the words of my so-
cial psychology teacher, I realized I had found
an issue worth fighting for; (or at the very
least, worthy of writing about in the college
newspaper.) WE NEED A WOMAN FOR
PRESIDENT!

Seriously, for a country that prides itself
on being the most progressive and forward-
thinking, especially with -regards to women’s
rights, we are falling drastically behind. Many
of the European industrialized countries have
beaten us to the punch in having either female

presidents or prime ministers: France, Ireland,

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘O7

pzrture raurtery renatagau

Switzerland, Finland, and Great Britain. And
they are not alone. Other countries that Ameri-
cans would consider seriously underdevel-
oped or that are even poverty stricken in com-
parison, like Mongolia, Haiti, India, and
Rwanda, have all had female leaders.

So, what’s the problem? Is it that Ameri-
cans think females are incompetent, or unable
to be assertive leaders? Is it the
fact (and a male has actually
raised his hand and said this
in a class of mine) that they are
hormonal, expected to bear
children, and are supposedly crabby and irra-
tional once a month? And are we saying that
male politicians don’t have their own special
issues? For starters, among recent presidents
and prominent politicians it seems to me that
there has been a rash of pathological liars,
philanderers, and sex—addicts. Power, which
has been in male hands since basically the
dawn of time, has certainly gone to their heads.

There are all kinds of women, but extreme
and even contradictory stereotypes of them.
Women are traditionally supposed to be meek,
hyper—emotional and in a word, weak. “Devi-
ant” female-types, on the other spectrum, are
composed of by the femi-nazi’s, mean-
mommy’s, and *itches of this world. Where is
the middle ground? It is popularly assumed

PAGE 3

pzrtt/re from 2:/bite/1au.re.ga12

HAILTO THEVCHIEF. Leading possbilities for the first female President are Senator Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and National Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice

that a woman who is trying to climb the em-
ployment ladder is trying to “be a man”. Why
is this? Why is trying to gain equality frowned
upon, why is feminism (gasp) a bad word, and
why is the office of the presidency reserved
for rich white men?

If you look at many of the problems facing
our country today, it becomes clear to me that
a strong woman could help things immensely.
Women would be better at diplomacy and see-
ing different perspectives than their own. For
example, rather than calling all enemies of the
U.S. evil and inhuman, as Bush is unceasingly
fond of doing, a woman might be sensitive and
open—minded enough to realize that evildoers
are not automatically evil at heart and every-
one is shaped by their environment. Keeping
other countries from hating you is always a
good idea; it’s just smart business.

In the long run, women and men are not so
different. They have similar potential and ca-
pabilities and both are fully able to fulfill the
offices of the presidency. Why, when so many
people have begun to regard elections as a
choice between the “lesser of two evils,” have
competent-females not been included as a valid
alternative? The time has come for half the
population to be represented in the area that
arguably matters most: the leadership of our
country.

Labeling fulﬁlls unique role in W&L society and elsewhere

I think its pretty cool when people ask me questions. It is ﬂattering to know that
someone cares about who you are and what you like. During freshman year, the most
common questioned asked is about your hometown. But what does it actually say?
Maybe geographic stereotypes actually do apply to me in some instances. Yes, Iknow
how to ride a horse and have been on cattle drives. Yes, it snows a ton. And no, I’ve

actually only been skiing a couple times, but I can recommend what ski resorts to visit ’

duringthe summer. This is where alot ofdiscussions end. You get to know the person
a little bit, but no better than anyone else you talked to. When
faced with the decision of what label I should use to describe
myself in a short conversation, I usually try to explain myself in
terrnsofwhatlthinklhave incommonwiththeotherperson, but
are labels only relevant in the context of who you are with?
Iflmeetsomeoneatthehorsecentenlwilltellthernthatlfoxhrmt Iflmeetsomeone
at a hockey game, I’ll tell them that I am an Avalanche fan. Most of the time, I don’t
encounter people who can give me any idea of who they really are within just a few
minutes. Over reading days, I was in DC riding the metro out to Pentagon City to do
some shopping when a man sat down next to me. He said hello and we started talking.
Witl1inlessthantenminutes,IfeltlikeIreallykriewhirrLlknewwherehewenttocollege,
law school, where he worked, where he lived, why he was in DC, and about his experi-
ence with law school. I told him a lot about me and how I am thinking about law school.

"He apparently felt he knew me well, too, because he gave me a lot of really useful

IN THE IRONS
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘O7

advice. When the train stopped at his stop, he gave me his business card and told me
that he would really like to talk more and answer any questions that I had about being
alawyer. '

In a strange coincidence, a similar thing happened over fall  last year. Once
again, I was in DC and was on a very crowded metro. It was really late at night and a
hockey game had just ended and  fans were headed home. For some reason, I kept
looking at the guy that was standing next to me and he was looking at me, too. We

started talking and I instantly felt like I knew him. He was just out of
law school and working for aﬁrm in DC. Again, I couldn’t have talked
to him for more than ten minutes or so.

After these experiences, I wonder if labeling ourselves is even
‘relevant? Maybe people are just naturally predisposed to seek out
others who are like themselves and there is nothing that can be brought up in a
conversation that really makes you feel like you know the person that you are talking
to without this pre—disposition. Ifthis is true, why should anyone even bother to meet
new people? Apparently, I should only talk to lawyers who are riding the metro in DC,
but I really do like to get to know people. I love to sit in the airport and watch people
and wonder what their stories are. I love the delight that I get when I ﬁnd out some-
thing about a person that shocks me and completely changes my thoughts about
who they really are. We only get one life, and we have to make decisions that deﬁne
who we are, but getting to know new people can be our way of living other labels.

 

Democratic Party - 1 Gotta suck to be one of the Blue State faithful
right now. Bright spots— Barack Obarna crushes Alan Keyes, Salazar edges
Coors in heavily Republican Colorado. .

Kerry’s War Record- 4-9 I picture Kerry walking into a room looking
dejected. Senator McCain is there, and he says  come in.”

Zombies- T In a turnaround from last week, John Ashcroft has a job for
, the next four years, in another victory for undead rights.

Condi Rice—  Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the next Secretary of
State.

W&L Alcohol Policy- «&—+ The right thing is (probably?) being done, but
why is it that no one seems to know what’s going on? Help us out, lFC/
Adrninistrators/Board of Trustees. That letter we got a while back was
somewhat vague about what exactly was going to be done.

Pittsburgh Steelers- T How often can you predict with 100% certainty
midway through the season who the League Rookie of the Year is going to
be? Ben Roethlisberger is a lock.

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

his pregnant wife. Ah, how ﬁckle you are, American media.

 

Class Attendance on Nov. 9-  Hey, professors, observe closely this
Tuesday whether you see any strange attendance drop—offs. (Side note to A
Professors Velasquez and DeLaney- I will not be a part of this trend)

-Scott Peterson 1, The Supreme Court is in session, and the most
compelling law story in the news is a sketchy lowlife accused of murdering

Parents’ -Weekend-  Sketchy and fun as usual.

Professor Akins- T US. Navy Veteran, W&L community leader, and by
all accounts I’ve heard, a fantastic teacher and technological visionary.
The Science Center will not be the same without him.

Ayad Allawi- 4-9 If you’re about to start a ﬁnal military offensive against
someone, you don’t TELL them so beforehand, man. Props for ﬁnally
doing it, though.

John Edwards- .1. Lose the Vice Presidency, your political career, if not
dead, has been set back tremendously, and your wife is diagnosed with
breast cancer, all in one day. Right or left, you gotta feel bad for the guy.

 

PAGE4 pi MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004 W
What the election means- prophecies for the nextfour years and campaign ‘08

 

President Bush has, barring a
miracle of no lesser magnitude than
the Boston Red Sox coming back
from a0-3 deﬁcit, won his oft-touted
“four more years.” It’s a bad day to
be the 49 percent of voters who
voted against Bush, and a great day

evangelical Protestants, and espe-
cially those from rural areas. The
Democratic party failed to make the
core issues the primary focus of this
campaign, and instead the election
was decided on values, as the Re-
publicans had planned. If they had

if you’re a Re- . made Iraq the pri-
p u b l i c a n . M0DERATE’g MUSINGS mary issue of this
What will Red , campaign, as
Tuesday (the CA1-EY ANDERSON 06 many people said

catchy phrase
for Nov. 2, 2004 that I hope to turn
into a sensation) mean forAmerica,
and for politics within America?
First, my more liberal friends
need to stop wailing about this be-
ing the end of the world. President
Bush, say what you will about him,
is a Yale graduate, and the last time
I had checked, had run the country
for four years without the world
ending. So, as Detective John
Kimble might say, “Stop whining.”
I voted for Kerry, but I don’t think
Bush is going to ruin us. So let’s
look at how President .Bush won
the election. Voters who voted
based on “core issues” like the war
in Iraq and the economy tended to
vote very strongly in favor of Sena-
tor Kerry. Where, then, did the votes
come from to give President Bush
such a relatively strong majority of
the popular vote, and to turn the
tide in states like Ohio and Florida?
Quite simply, the groups that
decided this election were the “three
g” voters, those whose primary con-
cerns were “god, guns, and gays.”
Karl Rove appears to have been
correct in his analysis that the Re-
publican party had a vast untapped

reserve of votes in the evangelical -

demographic, and playing to them
on issues like stem cell research and
the blurring of the line between
church and state has obviously paid
off in spades. I would not be sur-
prised if many voters who turned
out to vote for the various same-
sex maniage bans ended up also
voting for Bush when otherwise
they rriight have stayed home. Vot-
ers who voted based on ‘yalues”
ended up favoring Bush by an 80
percent—20 percent margin, where
as margins on “issues,” i.e. Iraq and
the economy, were for Kerry 60 per-
cent-40 percent. Despite this, ex-
pect the Republican party to press
its luck on these “core issues” as
well as on values.

The brilliant success of the
Republican party is contrasted by
the apathetic failure of the Demo-
cratic party. Where are the minori-
ties and youth voters that were sup-
posed to turn out in large numbers
to defeat Bush? Minorities and
youth voters tuiried out in greater
numbers than in 2000, but EVERY-
ONE turned out in greater numbers
than 2000 this year, especially white

they had done,
they would have won. But the truth
for even the most optimistic Demo-
crat is that this did not happen,
whether it’s because Kerry rather
than Clark won the primary, or be-
cause Karl Rove is simply smarter
than Mary Cahill. Per-

remains center—1eft. America is no
longer center-rightward, it is simply
rightward.

So what will happen in the next
four years? Obviously, things will
get done, with a convincingly Re-
publican Congress and an immod-
erate Republican president. Even
though the Republican victory was
hardly a landslide, 51 percent of
Americans will always beat 49 per-
cent of them. The only effort Re-
publicans will have to expend on
anything short of a Constitutional
Amendment will be to convince ﬁve
Democratic senators to stop poten-
tial Senate ﬁlibusters, something that
will not be difﬁcult. What plans does

for a constitutional amendment pro-
hibiting gay marriage, and do not
be surprised if the administration
tries to get more with the hand they
were dealt by trying to ban stem
cell research as well. Moves like
these will frirther please the “god,
guns, gays” voters, and will alien-
ate few Democratic voters who
were not already Bush—haters. Since
the Democrats are now powerless
to stop such initiatives, only the
conservative Supreme Court stands
between things like stem cell re-
search bans and the law books.
Constitutional law experts will be
waiting with bated breath to see the
results of such challenges. Speak-

priate, even if that means alienating
the United Nations and the many
world leaders who (reluctantly) con-
gratulated Bush on Nov. 3. Foreign
policy hawks would have it no other
way, of course. They will have to be
careful in the Muslim world, how-
ever. Even with a stable Iraq, many
Muslims who were on the fence
before will come down on the side
of the extreme anti—American fac-
tions if care is not taken to prevent
it. The administration cannot win
the war on terror if it is constantly
supplying the enemy with ieiriforce-
ments by alienating more and more
Muslims. Expect policy-towards Is-
rael and Palestine to become in-

creasingly irnpor—

haps it is be- tant, as well as any
cause the further action taken
“triad” of Re- in the Mideast and
publican fac— southwest Asia.
tions, the mod- Future trouble
erate social lib- spots (other than
erals/ﬁscal con- Iran) may actually
servatives like centerin East Asia,
Colin Powell or with China count-
John McCain, ing down until its
t h e ﬁnalreckoningwith
neoconservative I Taiwan, and with
hawks like North Korea’s
Condoleeza nuclear weapons
Rice and and the madman
D o n a l d dictator controlling
Rurnsfeld, and ‘them looming over
the evangelical everything. Ifthese
farrightists, like hot spots ﬂare up
John Ashcroft under the Bush ad-

(all with their
places in the
Bush cabinet,
please note),
were able to .
come together far better than the
Democrats, who are actually only
split into two factions (the moder-
ates, who currently dominate the
party, and the far left liberals, whose
numbers grow scant).

But any way you slice it, this
election is a disaster for the Demo-
crats and for the Bush—haters. Firstly,
any Democratthat speaks of an ille-
gitimate presidency now is ﬂat out
wrong. No President has won a ma-
jority of the popular vote since
George H.W. Bush defeated
Michael Dukakis, and the fact that
George W. Bush was as vulnerable
as any incumbent has ever been in
this election only makes it worse.
Moderate democrats have been
thrown out of Congress in large nurn—
bers, replaced by extremist Republi-
cansinmanycases,especiallyinthe
deep South. Moderate Republicans,
such as John McCain or Arnold
Schwarzenegger, will now be viewed
as relatively further to the left than
they were before. Indwd, the whole
country has conﬁrmed that it has
taken another step to the right rela-
tive to the rest of the world, which

the Bush administration have that
it will push in the next four years?
At home, social security will
likely be privatized. A controversial
issue before, the Bush adrr1ir1istra-
tion will take Red Tuesday as a man-
date to ﬁnally move Social Security

out of the public sector. Sharp dif-»

ference of opinion exists as to how
that will turn out. Tax cuts will con-
tinue, and certainly the tax cuts that

Voters who voted based on “values” ended up favoring Bush

[J/rota mu 9/ in

MISSION ACCOMPLISHED President Bush won over many Americans’ conﬁdence in the last four years.

ing of the Supreme Court,
Rehnquist, Scalia, Thomas, Souter,
and O’Connor may now breathe
easier knowing that conservative re-
placements await, should one of
them fall ill or retire, while,Kennedy,
Ginsburg, Breyer, and Stevens will
likely now try to hold on like grim
death.

In foreign policy, expect the
Bush administration to try to mend

by an 80°/0-20°/0 margin, where as margins on “issues,” i.e.
Iraq and the economy, were for Kerry 60%-40%.

occurred under the first four years
of Bush’s administration will not be
rolled back, another issue whose ef-
fects remain in question. Public
school funding will decrease as
Bush pushes for voucher programs
and privatization of education. But
more importantly, expect value—ori-
ented issues like gay marriage, stem
cell research, and church—state di-
vision to take center stage. The
Bush administration will push hard

fences where it can. Even if they
pronounce Red Tuesday as a suc-
cessful referendum on the Iraq war,
the Republicans know that support
for Iraq is ﬂagging at home and non-
existent abroad, and that someone
will have to share the economic and
manpower burden. Still, the
neoconservatives in the party will
have their ﬁnal say, and unilateral
action will be used wherever the
Bush administration feels it’s appro-

Government precedent exists for  
potential banning of abortions

' Looking over the election special of the Phi this week, some
phrases jumped out at me. “I think that women should be able to
decide what to do with their own bodies.” “I think women should
have reproductive rights to their own bodies.”  . . the battle over a
woman’s right to have possession over her own body.” If I didn’t
know any better I’d think that people were watching Oprah and taking
Cameron Diaz’s statement: “If you think rape '

should be legal, then don’t vote” seriously. Or
that the legalization of prostitution was a big
campaign issue. Those are issues that involve
possession, rights or decisions related to a

woman’s body. However, that is not what the
writers were ‘talking about. Unfortunately, the pro-choice movement
has been successful in summing up the abortion issue in the feel—good
euphemism: “a woman’s right to choose what to do with her own
body.” Sure, it sounds good, but what does it really mean?

First of all, there are many things the government does to
“take away” our control of our own bodies. Suicide is illegal. As is
drug use, prostitution, incest, public nudity, not wearing a seat belt
while driving, etc. So the argument that it’s your body, your choice
doesn’t always hold up under a court of law.

Second, I agree with the statement that women should be
able to decide what to do with their own bodies. Women should be
able to decide whether or not to use their bodies to have sex. Women
should be able to decide whether or not to use protection or birth
control on or in their bodies. But once a life is created, it is not just a
woman’s body that is at stake. There is another living body within her
body. If it were just her body, then her body has 4 eyes, 4 arms, 4 legs,
2 heart beats, 2 unique sets of human DNA, and in some cases, both a
vagina and a penis. If it were just her body, then we wouldn’t be able
to have test tube babies, in vitro fertilization, or surrogate mothers. If it
were just her body, then why can the mother die and the child live or

the child die and the mother live?

You can be pro-choice, but please, take the time to find out

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MoUTEvEL1s Q6_

What it really means. Abortion is still legal through ALL 9 months of
pregnancy. Do you agree with the right to choose to abort at over 6
months of pregnancy? Pro-choice groups like NOW, NARAL, and
Plarmed Parenthood oppose any restriction on abortion, even Partial
Birth Abortion, a gruesome practice that takes place in the later months of
pregnancy. Over 43 million abortions have been performed since 1973.
Do you think that all of these were done for medical

reasons? If not, do you agree with the right to choose
abortion for any reason? Did you know that the
frequently cited “health exception” has been
determined by the Supreme Court to mean that any

abortion, even Partial Birth Abortion, can be performed
not only to save the life of the mother, but also for physical or even

mental health reasons?

Do you stand with pro-choice groups on recent laws? Pro-
choice groups opposed the Unborn Victims of Violence Act, also known
as the Laci and Connor (Peterson) Law. This law acknowledges that
when a pregnant woman is murdered or when a pregnant woman is hurt
and the baby dies, there are two victims, not just one. Pro—choice groups
oppose parental notiﬁcation laws that require parents to be notiﬁed when
their minor is having an abortion, just like any other surgical procedure.
The laws provide for judicial bypass, where the restriction can be waved
if there is abuse or incest involved. Pro—choice groups oppose informed
consent laws that tell a woman about the abortion procedure she is to

have and what the risks are.

Take time to ﬁnd out where you stand on this issue. Don’t just
take my word, look up what Partial Birth Abortion is or find out what the
laws say for yourself. Odds are you aren’t just pro-choice or pro-life.
You’re pro-choice up until the ﬁrst trimester. Or pro-life except for rape,
incest, and life of the mother. Find out where your boundaries are and get
educated so you can defend your beliefs.

If you disagree with some of my statements, please contact me,
I invite the opportunity to have a respectful discussion on this topic.

You may also contact me if you have any other questions or comments.

 

ministration, there
will be trouble.
Bush will defend
Taiwan and press
. » North Korea, but
actual use of force remains unlikely,
as both China and North Korea
threaten retaliation with nuclear
weapons. Cuba could also become
a factor. If Fidel Castro dies, it is ex-
tremely likely that President Bush
will seize the opportunity and in-
vade in an attempt to restore an
America-friendly democratic gov-
ernment to the island in America’s
backyard. If that happens, the criti-

cal Cuban—American vote in

Florida will swing strongly Repub-

lican for decades to come.

Iraq itself remains unstable.
Much will hinge on whether sta-
bility “on the ground”ihas been
established by the elections the

Bush administration plans to conduct
in January. Ifso, the insurgent groups
will be marginalized, if they weren’t
already destroyed in the stabilization.
If not, the elections will be marred
it will be difﬁcult to foresee a stable
Iraqinthenearfutu1e,andtliusitwill
be difﬁcult to see any withdrawals of
U.S. troops in the near future either.
Permanent garrisons "such as those
in Africa, the 37th parallel on the

 

ate p II

North-South Korea border, and in
Yugoslavia and Bosnia, will have
to be established. The Bush
admir1istration’s worst—case sce-
nario is a legitimate election that
decides that Iraq should be a theo-
cratic republic based on Islam be-
fore democracy, as in Iran. While Iraq
is not an overriding factor, it has been
the test case for neoconservatives’
theories of forceful democratization
of anti-Arnerican orrogue world gov-
emriients, and failure here would por-
tend gloom for neoconservative poli-
cies.

What about the future? If Re-
publican fomme holds, much will
depend on who they nominate in
2008. They have two choices. First,
they may nominate a Bush-like ﬁg-
ure, someone squarely on the right
who will continue to make conces-
sions to socially conservative
America and make other decisions
similar to those of the Bush adminis-
tration. Altemately, they may nomi-
nate a moderate Republican, some-
one like McCain, though McCain
hirriselfwillbetooworn outby 2008,
most likely. Soon, a Constitutional
amendment will have to be consid-
ered that might give non-natural born
citizens the right to rim for President,
and if that happens, moderate Re-
publicans such as likely Senator-
Elect Mel Martinez of Florida and
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of Cali-
foniia might be good candidates. The
direction the Republicans take will be
critical, anarch-conservative will likely
divide the party and hand the Demo-
crats a golden opporumity as evan-
gelicalsocialoonservatives becorrieiri-
creasirigly marginalized On the other
hand, if a moderate Republican takes
over, the Republicans will likely con-
tinue their dominance.

The Democrats will be taking a
long, hard look at themselves over the
nextfouryeais. Theywillaskwhether
itistoolatetotakebackatleastsome
of white ProtestantAmerica Theywill
askhow theycanmoreeffectivelycor1-
trolwliatissuesareimportanttoAmeri-
canvoters.Theywillaskiftheywill
ever ﬁnd another candidate with the
charismapand aura of Bill Clinton. In
2008, eiqJectoneoftherisingnewmod-
erate Democrats to gain the nomina-
tiorr The old guard, like Gephardt and
(the now—out-of—a-job) Daschle will
fade. I-IillaryClintonwouldbeirian
exceIlentpositiontotakecornmarid,but
sheisnotelectable,asha1fthecountry
seeminglyalreadyhatesheronherper-
sonality alone, and when you add to
thatthefactthatshesawomaninan
era where gender equality has still not
beerireached,andClir1tonPartHmakes
no sense. More likely is an up-and-

oorrierhl<eSenat<x—l3ectBarack()barna ,

oflllinois,orKenSalazarofColorado.
All iriall, itwill be an interesting
four years, to say the least

Yes
96%

Phi Quick Poll

“Have you, during your time at Washington and Lee
University, broken a Commonwealth of Virginia law
dealing with alcohol?”

 

This poll has 95% confidence in a +/— 5%
margin of error. Polls are ‘taken using a simple
random sample from the University directory of

all undergraduate students. '

No . 
4%

 

  

MONDAY, NOVERMlg3ER,§, 2004 .

x

  

 

Fans’ hopes too high

Redskins have placed too much faith in ,Gibbs, Poltis

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS W RITEP.

I think the Washington Redskins
may actually be my favorite team in the
NFL to watch this year. Before you get
any false ideas about my loyalties or
judgment, allow me to explain.

I enjoy watching the Redskins be-
cause of all youobnoxious Skins fans
out there. In the same way that Liberals
and Democrats on this campus are
pushed to more and more passionate
hatred of the right, so am I pushed by
your asinine predictions. Of course,
these feelings have not developed in
one off season of stupidity. Oh no, this
has been fostered over the last five
years.

Every single year, they have a whole
new roster of expensive stars, often even
a new_coach, and yet they never win.
When they added Michael Barrow and
Jeremiah Trotter that was supposedly
their year, but after a disappointing sea-
son they then placed their hope in Steve
Spurrier... which led to more sucking.

So now it’s Joe Gibbs and Clinton
Portis, and it still amounts to nothing.
Last year, their fans were certain that Joe

Lane leads equestrian tea

PH()T() C()L'R'1‘lZSY or-’ CAri'i.1_\' L.-\T\‘li

Gibbs would lead them to the promised
land again, to the point where the phrase
“greatest coach of all time” was thrown
around ....... . .please.

While the greatest coach in history
is a matter of opinion, there is such a
thing as a stupid opinion stemming from
blind optimism. The case for Bill Parcells,
for instance, is far more convincing. The

_ man goes franchises that are in dire
straits, and turns them into a competitor
within a couple years. He’s done it four
times now. I

What Skins’ fans need is a good
dose of realism. When the Dolphins lost
Ricky, I didn’t pretend that we were go-
ing to be good. I didn’t speak of A.J.
Feeley as the man that would make up
for it either. Signing a bunch of big names
doesn’t mean immediate contention. If
your team is already solid and you sign
a big name or two to fill a weakness, then
you can start predicting (see Eagles —
TO and Patriots — Dillon).

The Redskins weakness was stop-
ping the run, and by weakness, I mean
weakER than the rest of their crappy
team. What did they do to address this
problem? They changed starting comers,
brought in. a halfback from the Broncos
(never a good idea, stats are so inﬂated),
and signed an old quarterback who was

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

~The Washington and Lee riding
team established itself as a regional pow-
erhouse with a strong showing in the
two Invitationals that they competed in
last weekend. They placed second at
the Lynchburg Invitational and tied for
fourth at the Hollins Invitational.
Although every member of the
team performed well, junior Caitlin Lane
dominated the meet with a first place fin-
ish in the open fences at Lynchburg and
in the open ﬂat at Hollins.

The daughter of a professional
horseman, Lane grew up on a horse farm
in Poolesville, Maryland. She began
riding as soon as she could sit in a
saddle. As a child, she won Grand Charn—
pion Pony Hunter and was named the
Best Child Rider. She continued to show

never that great even in his prime, and
then placed their hopes in Joe Gibbs to

bring it together.

Then, they completely toss aside
Patrick Ramsey, who had a very im-
pressive rookie season and a
solid sophomore effort. If you
draft a quarterback in the
first round, and he starts
half the season with a rat-
ing over 70, you’ve got
something to build
around.

He clearly has the ability to be an
effective NFL quarterback, but has
lacked the protection. His decision
making is questionable, but that is
exactly what you need to develop
in a young quarterback with his tal-
ents. Awareness is one thing that
most definitely increases with age
in a quarterback. Protection also
helps this problem, and once
again, they did nothing to over-
haul their pathetic offensive
line. '

So at this point you

,may be asking, “So
why do you enjoy
W a t c h i n g

t h e m ? ”

H e r e ’ s

horses competitively through high
school and placed within the top six na-
tionally.

The horses that she shows in indi-
vidual competitions are Dexter and Lo-
gan, both warmbloods who live at her
home in Leesburg. “You work a lot train-
ing your horse and perfecting the con-
nection between you and your horse”
said Lane.

In college competition, the rules for
showing are very different. “In college,
you compete by getting on a random
horse that you draw out of a hat and just
get on — no practicing” said Lane, “in-
tercollegiate riding can often come down
to luck in what horse you draw.”

At Washington and Lee, Lane was
named ODAC Rider of the Year in both
her freshman and sophomore years. She
had been team MVP both years, and last
year placed fourth in Nationals in the
open ﬂat.

The discipline in which the W&L

    

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

EMILY HLlI.Ii.\‘ /
.f'1‘,ir«r<‘ 1114 .r_i'ri<A '1 my

why: they are the
‘only team I’ve
watched that
screw up so con-
sistently. They
have horrible
. coaching, and it
shows. It’s like watching
a really talented high school
team play the less talented but bet-
ter coached teams. It’s embarrassing
for them, and I bask in it as I think back
and reflect on all the bravado of
Washington’s fans from last year.
So what’s the solution for this dis-
mal team? Besides getting rid of Snyder,

who is a cross between Mark Cuban and

George Steinbrenner minus the success,
they need to remember that building a
team starts at the line of scrimmage.

If the Broncos have taught us any-
thing it’s that skilled position players
don’t have to be exceptionally skilled if
the line is strong. They need to strip
down some of the expensive talent and
start anew with the o—line and d-line.

I’m reminded of the Bible story of
building one’s house on solid ground
rather than sand. The Redskin’s impres-
sive roster of stars has no foundation
with the fat boys, and until they do I will
continue to laugh at them and scoff at
ignorant fans.

riding team competes is Hunters and
Jumpers, which includes events such as
the open ﬂat and open fences. The ﬂat
involves ﬂatwork such as trotting and
cantering, while the fences require navi-
gating a course of jumps. “They are
both basically just a test of you making
your horse do what you want and doing
it smoothly,” explains Lane. She prefers
the fences as they are more challenging
and diverse.

The team’s goal for the year is to be
in the top two in the region. In order to
advance, the team must take first in the
region, which is not out of the range of
the talented riding team. “The team has
been growing and improving through-
out the past few years,” said Lane,
“Hollins is currently first and we defi-
nitely have the talent on our team to beat
them.”

Personally, Caitlin Lane hopes to
advance to Nationals and do well there.
In order to qualify, a rider must gain a

III at Lynchburg, Hollins

certain number of points throughout the
year, and Lane is well on her way to ac-
complishing this goal. In the winter,
Lane will begin to show her horses at
individual competitions.

One of the beneﬁts of growing up

' on a horse farm is that she had the op-

portunity to ride and show many differ-
ent horses. This is especially an advan-
tage in collegiate competition as the rider
has no time to practice with the horse
she is assigned. Riding has become al-
most a second nature to her since it has
been such an important part of her life
for so many years.

After college,‘Lane plans to con-
tinue be in. “I hope to have horses
somehow for the rest of my life, whether
I go pro or just stay amateur,” said Lane,
“Riding is something that I’ve always
done and love doing.”

  Tuesday

Wednesday ,

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa
Rica. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!

Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
endlesssummertourscom

 Week in 

9 Field Hockey ’ ° M Soccer ‘ Open
at Lynchbur --4:30 at Emory and Henry--4
' W’ Soccer vs. Ilolliris-—4:30

Thursday

° Volleyball at

I Fdday

Emory Invitatiorial——4:30
° Field Hockey at
Eastern Merinoriite——5:30

Saturday

° W Soccer at

Virginia Wesleyan-ll

° Volleyball at Emory
Invitational--2

° Football at Cerm-e—1:30
' M Soccer at

Hampden Sydney--ll

Sunday 1

' W Soccer at Chowan—-l

 

 

   
  
  

  ~i0!;'='«o~a@!

§.,'2£,3LL_,€:£a-E 9-es?

{lays/Night
Lift ‘tickets
Condo lcdgtiig
Serious Nightlife

JANUARY

 
 

1S':PF'3lNC.:BRE;AK,

  
 

 

snoweonnn

PERT‘?

  
   
 
   
 
 
 

 
 

..Wﬂ8h vour hands!  

,_l

T

  

‘ www.ststravel.com.

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or

‘ Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party
Cruise!

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave|.com
1-800-678-6386

  

 

 

   

 

 

        

 

 

          

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  

     

 

    
   
   
  
 
    
  
   
  

  

      

     

  

PAGE 6  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004
  V 11  11 *
streak ~
0
. . 1’
STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION
. The Washington and Lee volley- it
ball team claimed its fourth straight
ODAC Championship with 3-0 wins
over Virginia Wesleyan and
Randolph—Macon on Saturday after- J.
noon at Guilford College. The Gener-
als defeated VWC in the semiﬁnals,
30-23, 30-23, 30-13, before downing
Randolph—Macon in the champion-
aék .. . ship match, 30-28, 30-13, 30-25. ’*
- ‘ SAHAR Kl\MALl / R1N(;.Trri\1 PHI With the wins, W&L has now
Sophomore Colton Ward runs in for a touchdown during the first half. Claimed Seven Ofthe1aSteight0DAC
_ ' V Championships and is riding a 54-
* O O I 0 match winning streak against ODAC ,_
' In the win over the Marlins (19-
Genera eat E lI’l mal mmute   °“’°““‘“‘
’ 8), W&L was led by senior outside
- - - - - - running back Thomas Hubka (San Di— two passes for 36 yards and the winning hitter Emily Wolﬁng (Mt. Airy, Md./
Team ends With 4  Wins for first time Since  ego, Calif./St. Augustine) on the first touchdown. Seniorlinebacker Lloyd Wll- South Carroll), who had 15 kills, 13 it
‘ possession of the second half, but the son (Austin, Texas/Stephen F. Austin) digs and six aces, Junior right side
STORY COURTESY several tackles on his way to the end Wasps then assumed a 20-18 lead on a led the defense with 11 tackles and two Laura Byrne (Springﬁeld, Pa./Merion
SPORTS INFO TION zone, 7—yard scoring strike from Woods to fumble recoveries. The Generals had Mercy Aeaderny) posted 10 kills and
, The wasps (3-6, 2-3) opened the sophomore wide receiver Brennan three more sacks, settingaschool record 13 digs, while senior libero Jennifer J?
scoring on _a 1-yard touchdown run by SteWart (ShaWSVi11e, Va./Eastern M0nt- for sacks in a Seas0n (37). Lux (Virginia Beach, Va./Cox) had a
Junior tailback‘ Michael Lackett sophomore quarterback Todd Woods gomery) With 7352 left in the third q1laI- E&H Was led by W00ds, Who C0n1- season—high 27 digs. Junior setter
(Allenwood, N .J ./Wall) took a screen (Radford, Va./Radford) at the 9:27 mark ter~ pleted 24-Of-41 passes for 307 yards and Christine Gladysz (Palm Harbor, F1a./
pass 30 yards for a touchdown with 32 of the first quarter, The extra-point was W&L had an opportunity to take one touchdown. He was intercepted Berkeley Prep) added 47 assists, nine
seconds remaining to lift the Washing- no good, the lead on a 25-yard ﬁeld goal by sopho— once, breaking a school—record string of digs and four blocks, "1
ton and Lee football team to a 24-20 win W&L tied the game at 6-6 with 12:33 more plaeekieker Ben Long (Frankford, 200 passes Without an interception. In the victory over R—MC (21-15),
over Emory & Henry on Saturday after- remaining in the first half as Tweardy W-Va./Hargraye Military) With 2;33 re- Stewart caught eight passes‘ for 133 the Generals were paced by Byme’s
noon at Wilson Field. The victory gives found Ward on a 43-yard scoring strike. maining in the game, but the kick sailed yards and one touchdown. while sopho— 16 kills and 14 digs. Wolﬁng tallied 16
W&L four ODAC wins for the first time The extra point was also no good wide left." The Generals defense then more wide receiver Jerad Jackson (Big kills and eight digs, and junior middle 1
since the 1985 season. ‘ Woods scored again on a 1—yard forced the E&H punt setting up the win- Stone Gap, Va./Powell Valley) snared blocker Susan Gaillard (Charleston,
After forcinganE&H punt, the Gen- touchdown run with 8:13 remaining in ning driVe. eight halls f0r 113 yards, his ﬁfth-straight S.C./Porter-Gaud) had 14 kills. Lux
erals (5-4, 4-2) started the game—winr1ing the second quarter, but the Generals re- Tweardy led the W&L offense by game with 100 yards receiving. Junior added 19 digs, while Gladysz amassed
drive on their own 44-yardline with 59 taliated on a 9—yard pass from Tweardy Completing 21-Of-37 passes f0raCareer- linebacker Anthony Boyd 51 assists and 16 digs.
seconds remaining. Junior quarterback to junior wide-out Clark Kensinger (Co— high 275 yards and three t0UChd0Wns- (Christiansburg, Va./Christiansburg) led Byrne, Gaillard, Gladysz and 1!-
Greg Tweardy (Bethel Park, Pa./Bethel lumbia, S.CJOakwo0d) with 4:55 remain- His 21 completions give him 186 for the the defense with seven tackles and a half Wolﬁng were all named to the al1—tour.
Park) started the drive with a pair of ing in the half. The extra point again seas0n,aneW W&LreC0rd. Ward caught SaCl<- nament team, with Gladysz claiming
completions to sophomore wide receiver failed and the Wasps had a 13-12 lead siX passes for 101 yards and a touch- Washington and Lee finishes its tournament MVP honors.
Colton Ward (Charlotte, N .C./Charlotte going into halftime, down, while Hubka rushed four times season on Saturday at Greensboro Col- W&L will now wait to find out *1
Country Day) totaling 26 yards, then The Generals tookan 18-13 lead on f0r 57 yards and a touchdown. Lackett lege. The game begins at 1:00 pm. who and where they will be playing
ﬂipped the screen to Lackett who broke a 50-yard touchdown run by freshman rushed 12 times for 58 yards and caught in the NCAA Tournament.
     
,  , V  W_&LWomen’sSwnnrrungDefeats
" to Vrginia Wesleyan, 2.9 (1116)  1 at JNIU/Bcytnvite (1116) V Randolph-Macon,
 ’ '1 .. . . . I I . * 5 ‘ 1; ’ I , A 132-130 (11/5)
. , The fhird~seeded» Washington and , The W&L t°3mP13°3d £933“ .
it . ._.Lee,vﬁeld hockey team iost a 2-0  .. of nine teams at the }MUl . The Washington and Lee women’s *
A .  , decision“, Sgcon3._s¢3d¢dv,rghna  Bridgewater In”vitationa1“on Satur- 1 swimming team opened up ‘its
third , . W‘esleyaninan.ODACToo‘rnainent V day. The Generals were ted by ODAC schedule witha 132-130 vic-
‘Leey , Ly_,.scmifi'na} game 0;y',.3aﬁ1§éay’  sophomoreCaitiin1.ane(Leesburg, V tory over Randolph-Macon College
terry’ ‘.7 '1  Lynchlﬁtirglflolleige. , ' I  ‘ Va./Pooiesville (M60). Wholplaced on Friday evening at Twombley ‘
1,  ‘ ' I 7  ‘ I ' ' . 7 ' g 5 ﬁrst  the open fences and open Pool. 4 1 «
-  ..  . . .» ._ iﬁtjneniv. 1 ' ‘ f*a*eY¢'1‘Sn
 .  -saw 0   sates am I I          1
*  " ’nodnatLync1ibt_3tgv.Co¥1ege A .
$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus    .. .    .—.  ..  _ 1,,
4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free V _ . . ‘
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS I ’ 5, ,,,,, , ?_,_  h , __  _, _
$1O0Q_$20O0 in earnings for. Your group , _ . . I A §l§l‘l5  E788 ﬁiilﬁ Eéﬁﬁiﬁﬁrlﬁllili
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you .- I i335‘3i*5ii5‘il3§§l§*-1&3i135§ié°= ' s
schedule your non—sales fundraiser with  pg Kg _§g,_,V W, W 9,. ,,§Lr,?,Mg,;:,§.§; my gm ,3 w§,,,m3?j_,§, ,, 3
- V ..,  i . .3; ea   22, E -1.3. 3.2  9  .2:-.. "5  ‘ » z  : --- ~
CarnPLlsFundrcuser. Contact Campus _, it 2 i =2 4; hi ' 5 ii ‘I ‘ ‘ " ’& ‘ _
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
I _ .  y ‘X . _ . ,, §°‘‘.r':2;>::« as :;é':s;sh
. .
R
’   Standard ,
, ‘ f leﬁilfféﬁvlﬂﬁltldfﬁz ~
Orchardside Yarn Shop : _ , ., ) ,, y , , 4 . .
Km-,,g spew, 51",, Do  lélfmsit honest" L8 stereo nah sir. sneakers, tsngurizng has -’
273Raphine Road smethin ’ ' theaters and Estes Eeistld titan.‘ ’~1.’:2E§”r§.i £38; tease-is and .31?-’l
Raphine, VA 24472 g "V§i%E:;li.§l.iI§ reads .9 air i::;z%:z3%:§:::ae= .9 Ilhixica el liitztié errata: :':r:so::r
5“”"’5”°' ‘‘'"'’'“"'Y’‘“” for - ‘ ziasésas ,9 satin-tori: mites 5 F’€?.t€Ei’ isiadotis. *  -tress, an
Knitting cottage nestled alongthecreek ,;,  ‘» I ~_.?’  =»  3'3 _§e’T-__  .2 ,5 ~ ’  §~§;,-i '
which mm mm semmoﬂmic Someone V éiiiistiie rriitrors 5 gear, h.,tts .reae ienstsrari nine 1 3 ,
and novelty yams, kits, needles and , I
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and e 
Internet accessibility made easy.
Calif workshopdzdsslnfonnatlon.  7
or
. week.
Halfway belween Leringlon and Slaunlon '
Onl-81/l—64a1exiI205.RapIIine.4miIe:wex1on ’
Route 606. Raphine RM /Mr/in a working
farm that offers "U~PlCK” opportunities for fresh h
' fruit when in season.
‘ I1ies-Satl0:00-5:00,Wedunﬂl8:00 ‘“
mwxmhmm
 . . . . ._ it

 

W8: LIFE

/

FMLYEDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
EMAII.-EI)rrAiiosrI»r@orIIIn)IJ

PAGE 7

Crunk sings praises of frat bands, other free music

The bands. The music. Think about it.
Where else in the world and at what other point

, in your life will you be able to see anywhere from

2-4 (plus) bands per week? (For free, I might add.)
When you leave college, in order to see a band
play, you will typically have to go to a restau-
rant, formal parties, or a concert.

At a restaurant, you can’t just go and sit
there to listen to the band. You have to buy food
and drinks in order to stay there long enough to
hear the band play more than one minute of
C 1 a p t o n ’ s
“Wonderful
Tonight” (if
it’s a nice
_«_*__T_ place). At a
formal party, you may have had to buy tickets to
get in — and then you and your wife/husband
can dance all night to the band (but remember,
you paid a fee).

Concerts are in the same boat — and they’re
getting more expensive every day. Look, 1 un-
derstand that when W&L brings in a big—name
band, they make you buy tickets. But let’s be
honest — we all swipe it home to our parents any-
way. So, to us, it’s completely free. What I am
saying here is that when you, go to a party here
and a band is playing, you don’t have to do any-
thing at all in order to stay. You don’t pay to get
in. You don’t need to buy food or drinks — even
a beer or five are all free. If you wanted to, you
could just go to hear the band — dance the night

GET CRUNK
BLAIR CRUNK

VACO! The Virginia Coalition comes to campus frequently. In the real world, you will have to pay to see

these fine frat bands perform.

away or stand there next to the stage and chill
out. It’s up to you — and I think that bands here
are beautifully underrated.

The other side of this comes from the view-
points of the bands who play here at W&L. My

be into it. Here at W&L, you can’t go to a band
party and have the crowd be sparse. It is inher-
ently crowded and congested — that’s just a

given.

The bands love it when college kids scream
at the top of their lungs and plead for “Sweet
Home A1abamahhhh!” — instead of the owner
of the bar coming over to them and saying, “Hey,
would you guys mind turning the speakers
down just a tad? That would be great.” You tell
me which one of these comments you’d rather

get.

On a side note, I have to continue to com-
pliment the GAB. As if bringing in Keller Will-
iams wasn’t enough, the GAB is planning on
bringing either The Ataris, Pat McGee Bandl
Better Than Ezra, or Bone Thugs N’ Harmony
for Chrismas Weekend — as dictated by student
votes. T hat’s right — student Votes.

If you haven’t heard yet, "the GAB has a
survey on Blackboard and you have until noon
on Tuesday, November 9”‘ to vote. So, vote or
die (or whatever" P. Diddy says). They will an-
nounce the winning band shortly after the sur-

vey closes. Stay tuned for that. ‘
In the meantime, enjoy the bands and the

music scene here at W&L while you’re here.

bet would be that these bands would much rather
play for a group of dancing, sweaty, rowdy col-
lege kids than at a bar where no one is listening
but instead only trying to yell to their friends over
the loud music. They clearly want the crowd to

But don’t worry, you’ll still be able to come back
for Homecoming after you graduate. And maybe
even Parents’ Weekend. . .so that you can dance
like fools at frat parties if your son/daughter
comes to W&L.

W&L Bookstore Presents...

Student Book

of the Week

A weekly feature of the Bookstore and the Ring—Tum Phi

This week :

Paris Hilton has a lifestyle most girls dream about.
Her name is on everyone’s lips -- but can she help it
if she was born rich and privileged? Now, with a sly
sense of humor and a big Wink at her media image,
Paris lets you in for a sneak peek at the life of a real,
live heiressfmodel/actressfsinger/it-girl and tells you
how anyone can live a fairy-talelife like hers. Choc
‘full of entertaining lists, like Paris's twenty-three
rules for How to Be an Heiress, and hundreds of
S glossy pictures.

Regular price: $22.00
This Week: $1899

Editor obsesses over Orange County

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTs& LIFE EDITOR

Okay, I’ll admit it. When
Ryan Atwood opened the door
to the Cohen’s poolhouse on
The OC season opener last
Thursday, I felt as though I had
been reunited with a long—lost
friend. N o joke, I had been fret-
ting and stewing over whether
Ryan would stay with the preg-
nant Theresa or stay in New-
port.

It sounds crazy, but I have
never liked a television show
as much as Ihave liked The OC.
But what on earth is its appeal?
It’s as scandalous as Melrose
Place and has more teen angst
than Dawson ’s Creek could
ever have. My mother even
watches the silly show. Of
course, she loves Nip/Tuck, but
that’s beside the point.

My freshmen hall bonded

Cooper’s drunken escapades
and laughed as Luke peeled out
of driveways in his pickup truck
more suited for an Arkansas
hunting compound. If someone
was not going
to be around for
the Wednesday
night time spot,
we watched the
show on tape as
a group.

I can be
having a horrific
day in which
everything that
could go has
gone wrong,
and then I
watch my help-
ing of teen
angst. I can’t say that my
mother has had an affair with
my ex—boyfriend, nor can I say
that I have stolen a car or swal-
lowed a handful of pills with a

Sometimes I wonder what
kind of lives the writers of The OC
lead. They never fail to provide a
truckload of drama in the mere TV
hour that I schedule in my

datebook.

If the
season opener
is any indicator
of how dramatic
this second sea-
son will be, put
me on the wait-
ing list for the
Season 2 DVD.
The “Level 4
Meltdown” of
Marissa put me
in stitches. I
mean, who

screams like a banshee and throws
patio furniture into the pool when
they are angry at their mother?

So Thursdays, from 8-9 pm,
you know where to find me. I’ll be

IBHBSIIIIIBII S llll‘ all

TIiurstlav.llov.1_1. 8 |I.m. Elrotl commons
Illlillﬂ
_ l:_am us and community members are
ininte to nerlorm music. noetnr and more
cash nrizes [or toll ertormers and

listen live on 91.5 ml or |Ittn:Ilvrlur.wIu.etlu

sion on III! e mailintl IIarkstla|etI@vllu.etlu

as we watched Marissa bomeoftequija,

What if you had a

in front of my TV.
Do not disturb.

second

chance with the one that got away?

Commons Theater Shows Brilliant Indie Sequel this coming week

I have literally been waiting for months to see
director Richard Linklater’s ﬁlm Before Sunset. We
don’t get movies like that in Rome, GA, and the
Lexington Blockbuster will probably have it in
sometime after
Chistrrm . rmybe
So, I was
thrilled to hear
that the Film __
Society was playing it in the Commons.

The ﬁlm is the sequel to l994’s Before Sun-

rise, which also starred Ethan Hawke and Julie
Delpy as two people who
meet on a train from
Budapest to Vienna, fall ri-
diculously in love, and agree
to meet six months later. Be-
fore Sunset catches up with
Celine and Jessie nine years
later and explores the possi-
bility of rediscovering love.

Before Sunset manages
to achieve a couple of really
difficult things effortlessly.
First of all, I realized as I was
leaving the theater that I had
just listened to 30 minutes of
dialogue and not been bored
for a second. Hawke, Delpy,
and Linklater have written a _
script that focuses so in-
tensely on the two protago-
nists that other characters are
inconsequential, and, some-
how, it does not lose its mo-
mentum.

Maybe it’s because. the

‘script is so well-written.

I Maybe it’s because Julie Delpy is so sponta-
neously cute. I could not help but cry/srnile/be-
come intensely jealous when she played her song,
“A Waltz for a Night”——and you will too. She is an

BEYOND HOLLYIIIDE
ELYSE Mooor

izii z;2.=-I: § §.m.$l«’«:.-

13(.%‘f< '}i"{f: -
"S’l__£I‘lfS(.."l'

extremely talented musician and adorable, plus the
song is perfect for the moment in the film where she
bravely puts it out there.

Maybe it’s Ethan Hawke. I don’t know; at any
rate, it is amazing that the movie moves along
seamlessly with such a tight focus.

Also, it manages to work in an enormous
amount of the Parisian cityscape by having Celine
and Jessie walk through its narrow streets, explore
gardens, and visit little cafes. There is a beautiful
shot of Notre Dame Cathedral from their perspec-
tive on a boat on the Seine.

The most in-
credible feat of all, I
thought, was that the
movie manages to
present a successful
sequel to what was al-
ready an impossibly
romantic film without
being sappy or sug-
ary-nostalgic at all. It
makes you think that
it could actually be
possible to meet some-
one for what both char-
acters admittedly call
a “one night stand”-
in a foreign country,
nonetheless-—and
never forget them. It
even makes rediscov-
ering this love almost
a decade later seem
feasible. Before Sun-
"set reminds you to be
honest, to realize that
the connections you make with otheqieople are
invaluable and precious, and to take advantage of
life every minute that you’ve got it. As Hawke says,
“I guess you’re never done making memories, as
long as you’re living.”

EiwLYEDwARus
AKIS&LlFEEDl’Il0R ,

mm m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004

  

Tl4l.l31Plll i

THE AST ORD  

Marshmallow Rule weighs in on Parents’ Weekend and Election 2004

PAGE 8

 

 

 

   

-Tjjrl criticized me in front of my friends for being too fat, needing It only goes downhill from Parent’s Weekend, but maybe :
OTATO a haircut, and wearing slippers to Applebee’s, she can fit right if I’m lucky, my mom will come back next year and let me play
MARSHALL RULE in at W&L. Beirut with her. But I’ll make sure to practice until then.
There were moments of the weekend that I had wished
she would just go home, like when I got the lecture about my .1
Marshaﬂis rampage  Young Democrats room being a disaster (she should have seen it two weeks
ago).

Pd like to Start offthis Week by giving “props” to Senator . And when she told everyone what my nickname was in
Mike Crapo of Idaho_ He beat his opponent’ Sc0ttMcC1ure, high school, I almost killed her. Yes for the record it was
like a red headed step child thatjust committed an honor vio- Marshmallow’ and no’ 1'
lation. Crapo won by more percentage than Saddam won his 3'0“ may not ea“ me
elections. Chalk up a point for Republicans everywhere. M h H k that‘

I almost felt bad for Kerry and the College Democrats ars 3 > you Suc She brdke m°St the
Tuesday. They really thought they had a chance. But then I POTA'[t)MAN’§MOM, Eules I laled fgzsnénbuﬁ i.
realized that they stole a keg from the Tuesday Night Election .0 or fom
Party and that they deserved everything they got. ONZMARSHALLSBEIRUHMLY Ween t mad or angry

Only a Democrat would steal a keg because there are too _ ‘mm She took me to
many Republicans at the party. You would think they would Wa1'Mart t°_get a helreut‘ _ _ _
be accustomed to being the minority by now. That’s alright _ She earned me In beer P 011$ and eve? emlelzed my tech" '
though; Republicans got the last laugh Wednesday afternoon mque 3:: blgnfled me f°rk1e,anX;tg' It thmkther eimet {Verde
when Kerry gave his concession Speech‘ were,‘ ars a , you suc . er wo no -so—c ose losses

For a While the Dems even thought they had Won the keg_ she ditched me for a new teammate, and to rub salt in the
off. But once again they were declared losers after it had w°und’P1eked a freshman to replace me‘ iv
been learned that a few Republicans started playing Beer Pong Llke alweys’ everyone {Iked he? more than they hke me’
two hours before the party was supposed to start, -and drank and kept askmg why I_WaSn t e001 hke her‘ _ .
the Democrat Keg on accident (sorry about that by the way). Fer a_m°m the? Fhlnke I have no Structure In _my hfe’ no

We Republicans may not be the brightest, but we,“ Still organizational abilities, and am incapable of taking care of
the majority.It has really been a bad week for you Democrats, myself’ She ,WaS able _to, get through the Weekend Wlthout 1'
but look at the bright side, there’s always 2008 with your be- Wandng ‘° k1“‘“° f°‘1“”"3Fh° f‘aT1‘f°S‘Y1“~ ‘
loved Hiharv _ On the other hand she didn’t give me any money, so the . yo

weekend wasn’t as productive as I had hoped.
Marshallls recount of Parents’  But, like all good things, Parent’s Weekend too must come PHOTO COURmSY  ,‘
to an end. In a weekend where two mothers (neither of ‘which Mhnsnmhhnow RULE The potato Man cleverly thought he Could hoop

Well, how that yvo done my Liberal hashing for the day, Wns lnlnea thank G051) Went On the, Stage and Started grlndlng his high school nick nameasecret. Well...his mother told Washington&

I guess I’ll move on to what really made this week special... with each °t_her’ and one Sketchy father waseanemg m_u°_h 1466- ThatwasOne0113116m9~nyh3PPYCxPCr1¢n°C5Maf5h111Sh”-‘°dW1th
Pal-enfs weokond or as I like to refer to it, payday wookohd_ loo P1'0V0°al1Ve1Y Wlth 1115 daughter: We Can‘ ﬁnally Say» ll 15 his mom over Parent’s Weekend. Be sure to comment on his fabulous,
I have a new found respect for my mom. Even though she ever‘ n‘=WW9-1-Maf'~'h3ifCut- 1‘
o o ,
Kristine mourns loss of Mr. Dell Lap Top, falls for Mr. Mac .
T 1) Spend countless hours on I stole envious glances at my roommates, my brain cells,
HE M1LK AND CHEESE G1RL thefacebook.com. (See last week’s article.) curled up in front of their computer screens, Yes, folks, it is a sad and pathetic life. How- ,
KRISHNE EARLY 2) Check away messages. happily exploring the World Wide Web. ever,'soon the pain and anguish will come to
3) Write witty away messages (This takes up One would think that I would find some- an end, Today I ordered a Mac_
significant time, believe me. Haha, no, my wit—_ thing worthwhile to do with all this free Yes, You heard me right, 1 ordereda Mac_

At approximately 2:00 pm on Sunday, N o- liness is 3 natural gift.) time. _ Do I feel dirty? Honestly, yes, just a little.
vembei 2, he starred inbaning His breathing 4) Drunken instant message people from high Maybe I could spend an extra hour in I was once a hardcore PC fan, too. My world ‘
starred to grow heavy and 1abbi¢d_ I knew school that I haven’t talked to for two years: the Science Library. Maybe I could get ahead was dominated by Microsoft Windows:
something was wrong He hadn’r been very “Heyyyy ther I alvays gthot u were cute do on my work. Nah. That is too much to ask. PowerPoint,
beauby 1ar¢1y, but 1 had nevbi seen him iike uo still hav a ggf? Instead, I have found new exciting ways to ,, . 3 W o r k s ,
this before. By 2:30 pm, he was in a coma. 5) Cnﬁck Iny 6‘n1ai1 eyely fly‘? n1inl1t€S- entertain myself DO I feel d1rty'htIt_lIOfeSdy’ Word... But is

I hate to be the one to break the news 6) Df00l '  ' YCS, 1113i 21 6 there comes
folks, but Mr. Dell Lab Top is now out of com- 0 V 9 F 301115 Of THEZWHKAND CREE”; GIRL a time in life
mission. (Okay, honestly, Ijust named him. Be- 0 1 0 I 11 C 5 my latest When you
fore he was always “that *@"%&@# com- that 1 W111 activities have to ad-
puter,” but Iihear it is uncouth to speak ill of “Wei be inclildci mit the errors of your way. After an ill func- ‘
the dead.) ablﬁ l0 af- 1) Nap- tioning Dell, a wreck of an IBM, a cursed HP,

Yes, it is a sad situation, indeed. And one f°ld- _ Ping (T118 and a craptastic (my own word— I’m just like
that is going to once again indebt me to the 7) Keep 11105‘ C-ff1' Shakespeare-) Gateway—in fact, the “Gateway
gods that be at the credit card company. "UP On the Cieni Way to hel1”—I am swearing off PCs for good. ,.

There’s a saying: You never know what I16WS- Fill I0 P385 Somewhere, in afactory far far away (in a
you have until you’ve lost it, And, oh, how I n1¢ln1Wh0 liIn€- Very galaxy.... Ah, I don’t want to admit I know that
underappreciated Al Gore’s contribution to d i (1 leJl1V9n3l' quotel), Someone is putting the final touches
society (Haha, as if Al Gore has the brains!). 13 F 1 t n 6 y ing- C0ln€S on my iBook. I couldn’t be more thrilled.

Indeed, the Internet is the best thing since 3 P C 3 T 5 highly f€C- No more random crashes. No more “Dell, '
sliced bread (and Jell—o molds). marry last 0 m - Updates.” Yes, you better believe Macs are far

Truthfully, I still have relatively easy ac— Week? mended-) superior machines.
cess to the network. My room is down the hall 8) Look A For example, with PCS you have to be con-
from the Gaines computer 13b (Don’t stalk me, up song lyrics and search for quotes on asi- 2) Music-listening “sessions” stantly on guard, for fear of attack from any I
p153Se)_ nine topics. ' 3) Watching re—runs Of Dawson’s Creek and one of a number of new viruses, No one cares

However, walking those extra 100 feet can 9) One word: Google. Saved by the Bell (Mark Paul Gosselaar used enough about Macs to even try to mess wirh
be pretty taxing. For crying out loud, it re- These activities generally take up a size— to be such a hottiel). rnom_ '
quires ‘putting on shoes! So, basically, my life able Pall 01 my day 30. naturally my first 4) Calling “P 3V€Ty0n€ and any0n6 1 l1aV€ Plus, I am excited that my new lab top will
has become empty and unfulfilling. twenty-four ll011l'S Without the Internet, 1 6V6r II16t“jl1Sttotall<” have wireless capabilities. Now I can waste 19

wirnour easy access to the Inrbrner I didn’t know what to do with myself. I wan— 5) Reading my roommate’s Cosmo magazines time anywhere_ After 1 take my nap,
can’t: dered around my suite, a lost and lonely soul. and slowly stripping away my innocence and

is
(D Let’s 'all take a moment to congratulate our new (I) The Greek system is going to die, and no one (I3 Side note: Parents Weekend was awesome TW&L
president, Ralph Nader. cares. really knows how to make tuition payers feel appre-
‘ ciated.
11> ‘Taylor Hanson needs a haircut’, eh? Ma be (I3 Congratulations to the newest ODAC champi- _
Y .
he can use your razor-sharp wit. Possibly style it ons on campus, the men’s and women’s cross (I) Who would the south elect first as president? A g.
with some of the cowardice it requires to put a country teams. Best wishes at Regions! Congratu— white woman orablack male?
, personal attack in the Quick Hits. lations as well to Coaches Tucker and Hoey for _ _ _ , _
being Coaches of the Year. (I) V1V(l)iy was Condi Rice wearing ﬂight gear this
(D FYI: There is no Taylor Hanson at W&L. He is W53 ~
' . . “ B .,, . . . . . . ‘ ' ‘ x
in that group that sings Mmm opp ;Iv>jc2)1rIi1lititileee;:lcctfi:<t)vi(1)(ol((>verage 1S even more (D vhhy was Condl R106 wearmg ﬂlght gear thls
» (I) Don’t let your frat room decorations be a rug on wee '
(D N th tB h h v o o f f the izirlleone lI:‘)ldlC(1ill01lSly ugly white dog nailed Blelsi addition to LexVegas suice last year: Cafe (1) TOday,S a good day in history for Republicans. ‘
to mow _tagr01:l:ha:iS1:Va‘:l_n7’1S‘tt"ne or the awlty 0y u m oar ‘ C e‘ Bush, Reagan, Nixon, Eisenhower, and Lincoln all p-
1 (I) Clayton Edwards, sometimes you just feel like a ‘I’ second best addition‘ The B3-keTy- won landshdes on this day’
(D Kudos to the MSA for hosting an excellent Par— princess _ _ . (I, In 1980 B S - I , ah) “Th Rj ,.
ents’ weekend dinner. (I) Kudos to Pumpkin Seeds for providing bever- hit b ’ lmleie P3335 ‘even 5 h um d e Vet
CD If there was ever a woman _who should be elected agesto Dads while the gals charged up the credit “um er ' °w es ave e ange ' Iv
* ”‘"<I5“Was’aIIyoneelse4hin1cingwhilQ,V1§Q1Lln£_§1§_ _President of the United States, it should be Dawn card. H  b b . - .
election retums...wow this reminds me of game 7 of ‘w;ri;ih‘si;i Prohibition reinstated! I 11 I I’  j ’ E ~ ~~~—‘_. FEPPY Bmhday to Tara Reid‘
me ALCS? ‘1’ A Whole l0i 0f C1355 and hospitality from the  «A  
(I) Despite you best efforts, plaid vests never work. FIJI brothers at the Hampton Ihh Saturday way (I) Has Yasser Arafat died ye‘t‘?‘~ ~~\.,\ _\ o
(I) On the same note, was anyone thinking...wow to go Boys! ' , 
this is a hard call——would I rather have had Kerry <1) If you break up with someone, stop having sex i (1) George W Bush should, app0mt.J°hn Kerry as E
win? or the Red Sox,, _ with them (I, The band at the polo Houses Tom party rocked ambassador to France. He s ﬂuent in French a.nd I
. No parent or student stoodistill. 311655 he understands them-
rp Yea Bostonian Democrats 1 ’ (I) It’s a sad day when the school can’t remodel its , ’
football stadium without considering rankings. v_ ‘D How about the Knitting Society racking up $750 (D Vetetam Day 13 Nevember 11' G0 thank 3 Vet‘ ‘n
q) Nina said she’d be my fr-jend____twj¢e_ for Project Horizon selling hats and scarves at the emu‘ V
(D A . W. h all th b  Dig: Tripp O'II1‘Il€IlZHTha£kS ftoh the history les~ football game. Keep those needles moving, ladies! q, Send your anonymous and crazy quick hits‘

Wareness = Prevendod 1‘ '3 "22 3°’ son‘ Ve’ your fave er Spa e er‘ . . . . and 0st ' arents weekend stories t
- a - - <I> Wh e the Re ublicans oing to nominate in _ P P °
mg around, let s kill sexual assault on this campus. (I) I love Libby Dole’ She Should be president‘ 20O8?o 131.: Cain Orflhudy? 8 o ph1@vv1u.edu h

v «r.v.« itnt‘-':a&i:§o~.~-4.»: ,_ .,., ,,.,»;.r,-,,,.,,_..;.,§.-,-,3,-, w-»

 

-1

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

Former New York Times editor Gerald Boyd
was the keynote speaker for Washington and Lee
University’s 38th Institute on the Ethics in J oumal-
ism Friday and wooed a captive audience in the
John W. Elrod University Commons with a talk titled,
“J oumalism Today: Why the Public Hates Us (And
What We Can Do About It)”.

. ‘Pulitzer Prize—winning Boyd told his audience

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

  Former NY Times editor
‘exarriines ethics of j oumalists

that in this day and age of excess media, the public
lose trust in the media and that “media exhausts
the public, angers the public,” and highlighted what
he believed the three causes for the mistrust were
while also offering solutions. I
“While journalism is a calling, it is also living
and breathing,” said Boyd who worked with The New
York Times for 20 years, retiring as managing editor in
2003. "”Ihe goal is worthy, necessary and hard.”

see NY Times page 2

To the Student Body,

The process for the facilitated discussions for
strategic planning intends that members of the adrnin—
istration attend, observe and listen without entering
into the discussion. However, in a recent facilitated
student discussion, certain assertions were presented
as fact by students that are at least uniformed and
insensitive and, at worst, racist. It is so troubling that
anyone at our University would hold these views that
the University must break with the prescribed process
and respond forthwith. We emphasize that we have no
reason to believe that these sentiments are held by
any but a few students, but they are so inaccurate and
uncivil that they cannot go unchallenged.

False Assertion

The goal of diversity has resulted in a dimm-
portionatenumber of minority students in the bottom
quartile of the entering class.

Respome

This is simply not true. All W&L students are
qualiﬁed to be here or they wouldn’t have been admit-
ted No concession in admissions standards have been
made to enroll minority students. Ifone looks at all the
elements of the admissions process in their totality
(grades, test scores, essay, recommendations, etc.),

. our minority students are every bit as qualiﬁed as the
rest of the student body. Our goal of increasing the
number of minority candidates with credentials appro-
priate to our student body has brought to our commu-
nity students who have excelled in the classroom and
enriched the University in extra- and c—cunicular life.

Fake Assertion

Financial aid is used to aggressively recruit mi-
nority students and to disadvantage majority students
with superior credentials.

Respome

Minority students do not deprive other stu-
dents of ﬁnancial aid. The overwhelming number of
students atWashington and Lee with a demonstrated
need, are provided assistance.

FalseA$ertion:

Minority students are being sought for the sole
purpose of improving in the rankings.

Rwpome

Therankings of the US. News & WorldReport
(and most other publications) do not consider minor-
ity populations in their methodology.

Regardless, the University’s primary goal is to
provide the best possible education for our students.
Rankings cannot possibly measure that and will there-
fore never drive institutional policy at Washington
and Lee.

False Amertionz

The Honor System is best understood and in-
temalized by majority students.

Respome

The honor of each student is demonstrated by
individual contact and upon that basis, the character
of our minority students is unquestioned.‘ Minority
students lead and participate successfully at every
level ofUniversity life. To single out the Honor System .
as an exception is nonsense. Baseless slurs against
minority students are dishonorable and uncivil and
are unworthy of any student at Washington and Lee.

Looking back to 1986, it is interesting to note
thatthe false facts and baseless opinions thatwe heard
with regard to minority students last week are essen-
tially identical to those we heard about women stu-
dents when the University was debating and then
implementing coeducation. There is no question now
of the wisdom and beneﬁt to W&L of co-educaﬁon
and the same is true of our efforts to bring more diver-
sity of thought and experience to the Washington and
Lee student body. ‘

On behalf of the University, we apologize to
any st11dent who was hurt by these regrettable utter-
ances.Aclassxoom and acommunity with varied expe-
riences and backgrounds is a better learning space
than one made up of a homogeneous population. We
believe in the wisdom of a diverse University commu-
nity and will continue to embody that belief in policy.

We at W&L grow socially and intellectually
because of the diverse contributions of every single
student on campus, without exception.

The Strategic Directions Committee

Tom Williams, Provost

George Bent, Associate Dean of the College

George Canas, Associate Provost

Peter Cronin, Director of Development

Scott Dittrnan, Registrar

Sidney Evans, Associate Dean, School of Law

Joe Giasso, Vice President for Adrriinistration

BillHartog, Dean, Admissions &FinancialAid

John Keyser, Associate Dean, School of Law

Tim Kolly, Interim Director of Communications

Steve McAllister, Vice President of Finance

Elizabeth Oliver, Professor of Accounting

David Partlett, Dean, School of Law I

Lany Peppers, Dean of the Williams School

Jeanine Stewart, InteiimDean of the College

Rob Straughan,Assoc. Dean , Williams School

John Stuckey, Director, University Computing

Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students

Mike Walsh, Executive Athletic Director

PII

VOLUME CVII. , NO. 15

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

Science, Society, and the Arts

=1

Nan
' ' uﬂklmau

BOOK SIGNING. The keynote speaker at the conference luncheon was Alan Lightrnan, bestelling author of
the novel Einstein’s Dreams, published physicist, and MIT writing professor. Lightman is pictured
herei signing an autograph for David Klinger, ‘O6.

SSA is a multi-disciplinary conference involving Washington and Lee undergraduates in the
presentation of their academic achievements before an audience of their peers and the undergraduate
faculty. Conference participants made oral presentations of research papers. \

Peeping pervert peers at Srat girls

BY Ron ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

November 4 turned out to
be anything but a typical day. She
was chatting with some friends as
they crossed the sorority foot-
bridge on their way to lunch.
Then she spotted something
she’d never seen before.

With his sunroof open and

' windows rolled down, a Southern

Virginia University student looked
attentively at Landgren and oth-
ers crossing the bridge. He was
masturbating in his car.

“We were walking across
the bridge and spotted this SUV,”
Landgren said, “we were wonder-
ing if he was lost . . . but as I looked
down through the sunroof, I saw
that he was actually masturbat-
ing.”

The vehicle was creeping
slowly on East Denny Circle, just
below the sorority bridge that
connects with the parking garage.
As the male student passed un-
derneath the bridge, he then made
a U-Tum and passed again. .

Landgren and her friends
bolted and ran the rest of the way

to their sorority house, disgusted
by what they had seen. Minutes
later, Landgren phoned Campus
Security to report the incident.
Security immediately tele-
phoned Lexington police, alerting
officers to be on the look—out of a

“...but as llooked down
through the sunroof, I saw
that he was actually

- masturbating.”
CELIALANDGREN

green Ford Escape with Alabama
tags.
VVithin 20 rriinutes, the stu-

'dent was pulled over by police on

White St., not far from campus.

“He wouldn’t say what he
was up to,” said Mike Young, di-
rector of Security at Washington
and Lee.

“Eventually, after we told
him that there were witnesses, the
student admitted to doing ‘what-
ever they say I was doing,”
Young added.

Young’s immediate action

was to permanently ban him from
W&L property. Next, Young
phoned the SVU administration to
report the incident.

The Administration at SVU
was not willing to discuss any de-
tails involving Thursday’s inci-
dent. Yvonne Carpenter, the
University’s Public Relations Di-
rector, said the entire case is
highly conﬁdential.

This incident is especially
sensitive since the Mormon faith
believes strongly in abstinence
before marriage, according to Car-
penter. “This sort of activity is
absolutely appalling  particu-
larly for those of the Mormon
faith,” she said.

The student body at South— .

em Virginia University is report-
edly 98% Mormon, but the insti-
tution operates -independently
from the Church.

The student, a native of
Alabama, is reportedly a Junior.
He is still enrolled at the Univer-
sity and will undergo a hearing
before an SVU honor board.

Landgren decided not to
press charges, believing that a no-
trespassing order was sufﬁcient.

Student leaders respond to alcohol policy confusion with Q & A

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

In response to numerous questions regard-
ing the alcohol policy, several student leaders
drafted a list of questions and answers to help
inform the entire campus. We hope that you ﬁnd
this helpful and encourage you to continue to ap-

‘ proach student leaders with questions and con-

cems.

Katie Henderson, SFHB Student Chair
Maggie Hope, SJ C Chair A

Tom Pickering, IF C President

Mary Jacob Rankin, Panhellenic President
Marie Trimble, EC President

Has there been a change related to the University’s
policy toward alcohol?

There has not been a change related to policy.
The University has, however, asked both IFC and
Panhellenic to examine their current practices and,
where not consistent with policy, have practices
that meet University policy, policies of their na-
tional organizations, and state and federal laws.
What are the policies?

The University policies are listed in each
student’s Student Handbook. Certainly underage
drinking is central to the University’s policies, con-

. sistent with state and federal laws. However, each

Greek organization has different policies and that’s
what the IF C and Panhellenic are currently exarnin—
ing. That is also why national organizations, IFC,
Panhellenic, faculty, and staff are working together.
What is the role of student self-governance re-
garding this issue?

Student leaders are put in a tough position.
They’re elected to uphold University policy while
also attempting to balance the best interests of the
students they represent. The IFC and Panhellenic
have been asked to take a major leadership role_in
examining current practices and bringing them
closer to policy. The IFC knows that the alcohol
policies are not popular, but it understands the grav-
ity of the Board’s requests, and would rather have
students formulate and uphold solutions than have
others enforce policy.

Is alcohol or alcohol use related to the Executive
Committee?

One of the responsibilities of the SJC is to
adjudicate alcohol—related issues. The expectation
is that the SJ C will continue to hear alcohol-related
violations. The SJC refers to the alcohol—policy in
the Student Handbook when reaching its decisions.
The Executive Committee will continue to consider
any case that is turned in, but as stated in the White
Book, the Committee will vote to decide which cases
it takes to a closed hearing. .

Does the University want to be a dry campus?

The University does not want to make W&L
a dry campus. However, the University must make
an effort to uphold the laws of the Commonwealth
of Virginia. Greek organizations, the University, and
even individual students can be held liable for the
consequences of drinking. Lawsuits are common
occurrence in today’s society, and consequently, it
is in everyone’s interest to cut down on the risks
associated with alcohol.

Does the University want to get rid of Greek life?

No. The University wants to retain Greek
life. The University is, however, asking its student

leaders to seriously address issues of alcohol use
and abuse, hazing, and sexual misconduct. Asking
students to take these issues seriously is not an
attack on the Greek system; it's an attempt to make
the Greek system something that will stand the test
of time and survive well into the future.

Has the VA ABC visited President Burish/the
Board/the Administration about underage drink-
ing at W&L?

Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control (VaABC)
has not visited with President Burish or the Board
of Trustees. Representatives from VaABC do work
regularly with University Security and with Dining
Services, as Dining Services holds the University’s
liquor license. VaABC has made it clear to Univer-
sity Security and other staff members on campus
that it wants to work cooperatively with the Uni-
versity community.

Is there a correlation between sexual misconduct
and the enforcement of the alcohol policy?

Policies outlined in the Student Handbook
are intended to create a safe and healthy campus
community. The chance that sexual misconduct will
occur does increase with the use of alcohol, but
the enforcement of policy is a separate issue. The
judicial processes are also separate, as SFHB and
SJC are designed to adjudicate different issues. In
addition to judicial procedures, sexual misconduct
and alcohol use are being addressed through edu-
cation and awareness programs.

What authority is monitoring the enforcement of
the alcohol policy?

The IFC, Panhellenic, and SJC coordinate
with University staff to enforce the University’s
policies.

There is a concern that the enforcement of the
alcohol policy will push underage drinking off cam-
pus, into the country, and increase the rate of drunk
driving accidents, or even increase sexual mis-
conduct. What can you say to this?

This is a primary concern of student leaders.
We know firsthand that parties in thecountry have
a different atmosphere than parties on campus.
Parties on campus occur in a controlled environ-
ment, with sober ofﬁcers and drivers, hired secu-
rity, a prevalence of beer instead of hard alcohol
and grain, close proximity to the Health Center and
hospital, and are within walking distance for a ma-
jority of students. We understand that students
need to be held accountable for their actions, but
we worry that the nature of off—campus parties
places students in difficult situations. We fully sup-
port Traveller and its attempt to transport students
to and from events, but we acknowledge that Trav-
eller is not enough. Drunk driving is an important
issue, but it’s not the only one. We understand the
difficulty of the situation and applaud the efforts
by Greek organizations in attempting to respond to
high expectations. It is our responsibility as W&L
students to make good decisions and to positively
inﬂuence those around us to make the same good
decisions. We all have to be aware of our actions

because they have consequences that extend be--

yond University or Greek policies. In response to
the possible increase of sexual misconduct, we feel
that sexual misconduct can occur anywhere,
whether on or off campus. Our hope is to decrease
the overall problem of sexual misconduct at W&L

through increased awareness, dialogue, and edu- ‘

cation. ‘

  

 

 

 

 (3.  LlI7§l7%,AP.\;
wmsniwottaw R  zUiwnif~:ﬁ%iTV
, (ans ar’31'."I¢\' ‘\/IA '9/U’-‘-‘til

PAGE 2

While U.S. and Iraqi troops were securing a dangerous city called Fallujah
on the other side of the world, about 20 local veterans of gathered in the cold at
Courthouse Square to remember their fallen comrades of wars past.

Local Lexington leaders commemorated Veterans Day in a ceremony hon-

oring the “price of freedom.”

Veterans Day, ‘November 11, is a legal holiday dedicated to honoring
American Veterans of all wars. The city of Lexington commemorated the day
with a wreath-laying ceremony in Courthouse Square.

Delegate Ben Cline, the Lexington area representative to the House of
Delegates, spoke on the importance of veterans throughout our nation’s his-
tory. “Our nation would not be without veterans,” said Cline. American veter-
ans represent the highest example of patriotism in a nation that is a “beacon of
light and hope” to the world, said Cline. Everyday that America s constitution
and democracy marches forward is worthy of being Veterans Day,” said Cline.

In addition to speeches from Lexington leaders, music was provided by
Wonder, a local gospel group. Wonder performed a selection of patriotic songs
including “God Bless America” and “Proud to be an American”.

Twenty veterans and their families turned out for the ceremony. Charlie
Trimble, a local World War II veteran, attended the ceremony with the Veterans
of Foreign Wars Shenandoah Valley Post 1499 of Lexington. This local Post
funds numerous philanthropic events including the Veteran memorial in Court-
house square. Trimble said he was pleased with the ceremony and “though

that they did a splendid job.”

BY WHITNEY DUFFEY
STAFF WRITER

At Harvard, students rub the foot of the
statue of John Harvard for good luck before a test.
At Yale, it is the statue of Theodore Dwight Woolsey
that supposedly boosts students GPA’s. The
equivalent superstition at Washington and Lee is
merely one of avoidance: avoiding the center arch
of Graham Lee’s dormitory. It is a well known su-
perstition that the unlucky student who chances
to walk through this center arch will fail the next
test he or she takes.

In 1904, the original Lees Dormitory was built.
It is difﬁcult to pinpoint when in the dorms 100
year history the arch superstition was formed, but
the belief still runs strong today. It hearkens back
to many widely held superstitions, such as the be-
lief that walking under a ladder causes bad luck.
But why in the midst of serious academia would
such a notion arise?

Thesuperstitions of many cultures link seem-
ingly arbitrary causes (knocking on wood, spitting,
seeing a black cat) with certain effects, such as
good luck, bad luck, or in this case, failing a test.
Whether or not you believe in hocus pocus, the

NY Times

continued from page 1
Boyd stipulated that ﬁgures from the Project’

for Excellence in Journalism were dismal and were,
what he believed, one of the three causes the news
media has received bad publicity and lost the
public’s trust.

According to these ﬁgures, the percentage
of those who believe that the media has a bias rose
from 45 to 59 percent, and the percentage of the
public who believe that the media try to cover things
up rose drastically from 13 percent to 67 percent.

Boyd also pointed out that journalists them-
selves needed to make an effort to change the
public’s perception of the profession and touched
on the scandal surrounding The New York Times
and Jayson Blair.

“The one thing I know more than anything is
the mindset of the joumalist,” said Boyd who added
that all journalists are gossips.

Boyd said that “people are looking for an-
swers and believe that we are failing them,” and cited
the recent presidential elections as an example.

Lexington honors
veterans in ceremony

BY LEAH KERSI-IAW
0 STAFF WRITER

actor Fiction: Examining the

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

    
  

gan last week.

said.

an

 

people who do often receive a certain placebo good
luck. In other words, by not walking under the arch,
you might feel more conﬁdent about the test, and
therefore do better on it.

This isn’t to say you should go purchase a
book of superstitions and dutifully follow each one,
but it does make sense that such a superstition
would form about Graham-Lees, a freshman dorm.
There are many things for a first year student to
adjust to, one of the largest being the transition
from high school academics to college-level
classes. The course load at W&L is, at best, strenu-
ous, a fact which often hits home with freshmen
after the initial sticker shock of their first grades.

The arch superstition then gives students a
means of gaining conﬁdence and a sense of con-
trol over their academic life. This is the most likely
explanation of why this belief is perpetuated year
after year and explains why you don’t see similar
myths attributed to Gaines or the Woods Creek
apartments, where older, more experienced students
live.

So, will avoiding the center arch of Graham
Lees earn you a higher GPA? Maybe, but don’t
count on it. You’d be much better off sticking with
the time—honored method of hitting the books than

However, Boyd also pointed out that in
troubled times, people turn to the media to ﬁnd out
what is going on. Referring to the events of 9/ l l,
Boyd mentioned that The New York Times’ circula-
tion increased 100,000 copies in the first week fol-

lowing 9/ 1 l.

“ W e {C
were giving the Any forces that work
Public What against journalism work
they needed to

against society.”
GERALD BOYD

n a v i g a't e
through con-
fusing times,”
said Boyd.

Boyd also offered solutions to the problems
he sees with the profession and stated that ac-
countability is a key factor in regaining the public’s
trust. He scolded CBS for taking two weeks to “fess
up to the bogus Bush report.

“We need to explain ourselves more often,
and better,” said Boyd who added that journalists
need to restore trust with their readers.

Like many professional journalists, Boyd said

SAIL and Model UN are both sponsoring events this
week. The first event this week is a study abroad sympo-
sium in the Commons Theatre form 7-8 p.m. tomorrow, No-
vember l6. The purpose of the symposium is to encourage
students to study abroad in places around the world they
might not have thought of before.

Stanley emphasized that students do not have to study
abroad in Australia or the United Kingdom because they
only speak English. Students who have worked or studied
abroad in English in locations such as Ghana, Denmark, and
Hungary will speak at the symposium.

Thursday, November 18 in the Commons, Model UN 4
and the knitting club will host a forum on Afghanistan. The
forum will begin at 7 p.m. and will be followed by a reception
for the project “Afghans for Afghans.” Almost 550 squares
to make Afghans to send to women and children in Afghani-
stan have been collected for this project.

International Education week kicked off last week with
the showing of the movie It Takes a Child. Law Professor

Graham-Lees arch myth

International Education Week . p .
Groups to stress international education

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MANAGING EDITOR

Campus organizations are teaming up to bring Inter-
national Education Week to Washington and Lee. These
groups planned two weeks of cultural activities which be-

Mark Drumbl came to the Commons to lead a discussion on
the movie.

International students from Washington and Lee went
to Lylbum Downing Middle School in Lexington and talked
to students about the Mexican holiday Day of the Dead and

» did an art project with some of the classes.

“Each sect of SAIL came up with an activity to bring
international awareness to campus,” Samantha Stanley, Pro-
gram Coordinator at the Center for International Education,

 

COIN BLACKFO  G

relying on architectural structures for good grades.
Consider this myth busted.

that he was worried about the joumalism’s future.

“Any forces that work against journalism
work against society,” said Boyd. “Joumalism is a
profession, and like any profession it must evolve
with the times.” '

Boyd ended his talk by saying that journal-
ism was at a crossroad. “I want to do everything I
can to make it better.

“You’ve got to get it right. We have to do a
better jo .”

Boyd is currently the director of case studies
at Columbia University’s Graduate School of Jour-
nalism. _

During his tenure at the Times, Boyd brought
The New York Times eight Pulitzer Prizes.

Boyd joined the Times from the St. Louis Post-
Dispatch, where he worked his way up from
copyboy to White House correspondent. He joined
the Times as an assistant and then deputy manag-
ing editor supervising the Washington, foreign, na-
tional and metropolitan departments. In 2001 he
was named managing editor, leading a 450 member
news team until his resignation in 2003.

 

Stonewall Jackson
calls for Volunteers

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

Lexington’s only hospital, Stonewall Jack-
son, is calling on W&L students to volunteer their
time and efforts, said Karen Jackson, the Hospital’s
community development director, Thursday.

While the hospital is not experiencing a gen-
eral shortage of volunteers, Jackson said “there
are some areas that are in need of volunteers.

“We have a number of opportunities,” said
Jackson. “We have over 32 areas in the building.-
Someone interested in the health or medical ﬁeld
can deﬁnitely move around  and get some expo-
sure in day to day patient interaction.”

Jackson said that not all volunteer positions
were hands-on and that there were opportunities
for some clerical work. Jackson also said that vol-
unteering with the hospital would be a good way
for students to network with medical staff who
could help if the student needed references for medi-
cal school. '

While the hospital has new requirements for
its volunteers, Jackson added that she would “be
happy to take applications until positions are ﬁlled.”

Students interested in volunteering at Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital are requested to contact
Karen Jackson at (540) 458-3564.

From the Executive
C 

November 8, 2004

   

A,}T£t_CII1beI..Qf.Ihe. Stude.nt..B.ody hasdecided
to withdraw in the face of an Executive Committee
Hearing after having been charged with cheating
on a Management exam. ’

Summar IJQEEC ¥:£imorAcﬁvity
for the 2904-2005 Acag emic Year

-Investigations: 3" ‘

-Withdrawals while being investigated: 0
-Withdravvalus  of a C19.sed Hearing: 1
-Closed Hearings: 0  .. L " H

-Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 0

°Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 0
Student Body Hearings: 0

Providing news to wal sinr:e1891

MIRABI MCLEOD, OWNER
CALL: 540-463-1760

AI   G
7 ’ ’   LICENSED, INSPECTED & INSURED

FOR ALL OF YOUR SPECIAL OCCASIONS:
PARTIES, RECEPTIONS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS

OR EMAIL: MIRABAI888 @YAHOO.COM

 
   

 

463-5888

John 3 :1 6'

BlueRidge

Prrrsrcar. THERAPY
Care with you in mind

72% North Lee Hwy
Lexington, VA
(Coilege Square shopping center)

Specializing in:

Orthopedics _
Sports Medicine
Spinal Mobilization
Post-0}’ rehabilitation

Please call or stop by to speak wirirone ofaur staﬁ"
members with any questions you  have 6071637713738’ }’¢””'
treazmerzt, or your znsurance.

 

Students enjoyed an exotic Indian Diwali Dinner in _
the Marketplace last Wednesday. While students ate, they
were able to listen and watch dancing and a musical perfor-
mance.

The International house hosted a traditional J apanese. .
tea ceremony demonstration and a Thai dirmer. Club Asia
cooked the Thai food themselves. For the first time, the
International House collaborated with the International stu-
dent organization at VMI to make the dinner.

International Education Week was begun by the US
Department of State and the US Department of Education to
help international students adapt to college in the United
‘States and allow them to bring their culture to students at
their university. It also aims to prepare American college
students for studying abroad and future careers in the in-
ternational arena.

SAIL, MUN, the Knitting Club, Club Asia, the De-
partment of East Asian Studies, the International House,
Dining Services, and the Center for International Education
all participated in the two—week event.

All students are encouraged to get involved in the
upcoming events. To join any of the organizations listed
above, contact Samantha Stanley at sstan1ey@wlu.edu.

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

 

TEi;RiN<_;»Tmzl’n'i
STAEE EDITORIAL
‘lis the season to be thankful

To humor our readers, in the spirit of
the season, the editors have decided to
share the things we are thankful for this
holiday season. «

Erin is grateful for going to a college
located next to a school where guys wear
uniforms and for an excellent business
manager. And for Chris.

Chris is thankful for a new printer
and scarmer in the Phi office so he doesn’t
have to run to the Journalism lab every
two seconds and for the new Holiday
Spice Pepsi and Japanese steak houses.
And, of course, for Erin.

Sarah is thankful to go to a school
where-the professors work with you in-
stead of against you, because she
wouldn’t want to pick a ﬁght with De.

Katherine is thankful that the Tigers
are 10-0.

Caley is thankful that Anne cleaned
up his mess and for the best parents in
the history of the universe.

Anne is thankful for her VMI for-
mal date who looks like Ben Afﬂeck and
hugged Erin.

Emily E is grateful that George W.
Bush was re-elected President and for
the delicious eye candy in her econom-
ics class.

Marshall is thankful that only fresh-
men received midterm grades.

Corbin is thankful for not having to
stay in the ofﬁce long enough to help write
the staff editorial.

ChadisthankfulthattheSteelersaie8—l.

Emily H is grateful that there is an-
other paper to work for so she can es-
cape the crazies in the Phi ofﬁce.

Kelly Jo is thankful that both papers
are getting along this year and for her
hot date to the Theta formal.

The Phi staff as a whole, is thankful
for the military service of a certain former
Opiriion’s Editor whose dedication takes
him far, far, away from Lex Vegas.

Happy Thanksgiving Washington and

Lee!

 

“Appoint Senator Kerry ambassador to
France.”

~Don Imus, TalkRadio host on what advice

‘hehadforPresidentBushonhissecondterrrL

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

 

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderman

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen ‘

David Seifert

Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara
Stephen Lipscomb
Amanda Tholke

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Directors

Distribution Dir.
Copy Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or- in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 34]
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fat: (540) 458-4059
Email.‘ phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

CAIEYANDFRSON
OPINIONS EDIIOR

mm m

 

PAGE 3

EC asks for student opinion on hypothetical Honor Violation

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

Last spring the Executive Committee hosted
an open forum in Lee Chapel to address several
Honor—related questions. Following the forum,
the EC discussed several of the ideas that were
presented by students, including the idea that
the EC provide hypothetical situations. The EC
has acted upon this suggestion. The goal in pro-
viding hypothetical situations is to increase dis-
cussion of Honor on our campus, while also al-
lowing the EC to gage student feedback regard-
ing certain situations. We encourage you to de-
liberate on the hypothetical situations and re-
spond through emails to ec@wlu.edu. Responses
will be shared during the EC s regular meet-
ings, held every Monday at 7:30 p.m. in room
122 of the University Center.

Sam, a freshmaitia

Sincerely,

The Executive Committee of the Student Body:

President Marie Trimble
Vice President Cristin Nunez
Secretary Justin Amold'

Members—at—large: Marc Granger, Darmel Duddy,
Craig Hensel, Thomas Worthy, Noble Stafford,
Wheeler Sparks, Charlie Yates, Lane Morgan,

David Cohnan and Margaret Elkins ‘ _

  
   

when his professor aimounced his exam policy. The
professor told the class that the upcoming exam was
closed—book, but that students could use outlines
and notes they prepared on their own. He also told
 ’f11I‘tl1é1"q1!’eSti011“S *ab0'1.:.lt
'  policy; that theyishould contact him. . = A 

 was detemnneéi to ace his Biology 111
ex_am.:;He studied for it  and night. Sam even
practised on oldexarns so that he would be well-
prepatt:£§..Samntas.so.deteimined to exceed the per-
formaiice of his classmates on theexam that lie de-
cided to copy portions  his textbook and pub-
lished science articles intcfg his own notes verbatim.
In the ‘exam, Sam got to miquestion that he was un-
prepat ed to answer. After féonsnlting his notes, Sam
decided to use some of the iriformation that he had
copied"ir1to_,l;i,s\,,,notes in o;i'der to ariswer the ques-
tion. Time was mnniiigorit._  A A

He quickly copied a few paragraphs from the
notes into his exam book. On the front cover of his
exam, he wrote “I have neither given nor received
any unacknowledged aid on this exam,” and signed
his name below the pledge before turning in the

exam. A few days later, the professor sat down
to grade the exams. When he opened Sam’s
exam, he recognized a substantial passage from
Sarn’s exam as being very similar to a passage
from the class textbook. After comparing the
passage in the exam with a passage from the
textbook, the professor determined that Sam
had violated his testing policy by using the
book. He then turned the matter over to the
Executive Committee of the Student Body. Sam
now faces a Closed Hearing before the Execu-
tive Committee of the Student Body. In your
opinion, has Sam committed an Honor Viola-
tion? Why or Why not? What other informa-
tion is needed to answer?

&1;., was in Biology 111

Additional Discussion Questions:

1. Is there a difference between Sam copying
passages from his book into his notes and
copying the passages directly onto the exam?

2. What might have been different had Sam
gone to his professor before copying from
the books?

3. If Sam had acknowledged under the pledge
that his notes contained passages from his
book, would that disclosure mitigate the al-
leged Honor Violation?

1st Amendment also means respecting others’ speech

Maybe you are wearing a ﬂeece one day and you don’t like the idea
that wearing one means you support National Coming Out Week. Maybe you
are a Democrat and find the statement “Democrats love abortion” offensive.
Maybe you don’t agree that another Bush term means four years of poverty.
Guess what? You have no right to tear down someone else’s signs!

I have always uied to live by the Golden Rule:
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
That is why last year, when the campus was plastered
with signs for the “March for Women’s Lives,” although I
vehemently disagreed with the pro—choice march, I did not
touch a single sign. I knew that the minute I tore down a
sign, it would be an invitation to another person or group to take down
Students for Life signs. I don’t touch other people’s signs, so please don’t
take down mine.

I also believe in freedom of speech. We may not like what others
have to say, but we have to respect their right to say it, unless of course the
speech is libelous, explicit, etc. Like Voltaire said, “I may not like what you
have to say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.” This should be
a governing view on an elite campus such as ours. You have no right to stiﬂe
someone else’s right to freedom of speech. You take away someone else’s

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MOUTEVELIS ‘06

right to free speech and it’s only a matter of time before yours is gone, too. So
defend ALL speech, not just speech you agree with.

There are more productive ways of dealing with differences than
anonymous destruction. Instead of expressing your disagreement by tearing
down a ﬂyer, talk to the group sponsoring the sign, go see what the event is all
about or write a letter to the editor about the issue. This
campus can only beneﬁt from increased dialogue and
discussion.

The same goes for non—controversial signs — don’t take
other people’s ﬂyers down! I don’t care if the sign is not
supposed to be posted in a certain area. It is not your job to
take it down; it is the janitor’s or another person in charge of the building. (We
also could use some guidance from the administration as to where the off-lirnits
areas are for ﬂyers) Yeah, the bulletin boards are full, but you can rearrange or
take down signs that have expired. Don’t take down posters that are still
relevant and don’t put your ﬂyer over another. Somebody took the time to go
around campus posting signs and some group has an event they are excited
about want to get publicity for. It’s disheartening to put up signs for hours and
then the next day see a lot of them disappear. Respect others’ advertisements,
and they will respect yours. It’s as simple as that. - I

Letters to the Editor

EC responds to “afﬁrmative action” complaints

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

Last spring, Onyx requested official recognition from the Executive Com-
mittee of the Student Body. Onyx wanted to focus speciﬁcally on the fre-
quently unrepresented views of black students on the W&L campus. Since
last spring, Onyx has co—sponsored social events, hosted a step show, and
has held events for prospective minority students.

The group’s most recent event was a forum to address pervasive stereo-
types that continue to plague our campus, despite educational awareness
efforts. The forum was well—attended by members of the community, includ-
ing representatives from the SJC, EC, Student Affairs Office, faculty, law
school, and the Ofﬁce of the Dean of the College.

Four members of the EC attended the forum, and we decided to respond
to concerns that we heard. Many black students expressed frustration with
the perception that admissions standards are relaxed in order to create diver-
sity on this campus. An administrator in attendance plainly dispelled that
perception, noting that all accepted students meet the same high academic
standards for admission.

Students also expressed disappointment with suggestions made at a
recent Strategic Planning session that the reason the University has been
having problems with the Honor System and speaking tradition is because
diverse students don’t have the same value system as majority students.

These notions are both inaccurate and offensive to many students in
thiscommunity, including students from all backgrounds. We encourage
those persons in our community who disagree with these hurtful ideas to
respectfully say so.

Washington and Lee is renowned for its small classes and lively class
discussions. Students vocalize their insights on nightly reading assignments
and are quick to speak up in class when they have strong political views.
And yet, many students are often silent when offensive comments are made
in social situations.

This silence compounds the hurtful nature of the expressed ideas be-
cause it sends the message to minority students that the entire community
agrees. ’

In a community marked by honor, civility, and academic excellence, we

encourage all students to remember to be respectful to one another in the
exchange of ideas, and to be considerate of the feelings of others. Regard-
less of our individual views, we are all members of the same community
and we should all seek to maintain a place where all students can conifort—
ably pursue excellence.

Sincerely,

Marie Trimble, EC President

‘ Justin Arnold, EC Secretary

Thomas Worthy, Senior Class Representative
Noble Stafford, Senior Class Representative

Phi reader praises last week’s article about Arabic

My roommate is a W&L graduate and he passed on a copy of the latest
Ring Tum Phi to me. I just wanted to tell you how much I enjoyed reading the
Arabic article written by one of your staff writers. I’m in grad school here at
Ohio State U and recently started taking Arabic classes as a side

interest.

It’s encouraging to see that students are interested in cultures and
languages other than the ones they are used to.

I found the article to be well researched and thought it was very well-
written. Well done to the staff writer for writing about something that in this
day and age is of growing importance. I hope that in the future there will be
more coverage in the Phi of the growing importance of such cultures,
especially at a fine college like W&L, which, I have been told, beside being
one of the nations top colleges, does not yet have any European or Near
Eastern Studies program. I wish that I had discovered my interest in the
region prior to attending Kenyon College for undergrad studies as I would
have based my college search on that.

Thanks again for a great read. Keep up the good work.

Corey Tarmer
Columbus, Ohio

Yes
35%

Phi Quick Poll

“Do you think that the alcohol laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia ought to be stringently enforced by W&L upon its students?"

54 students polled, 24 male, 30 female. Poll has 95% conﬁdence in a +/— 5% margin of error

 

No
65%

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

 



Lexington Police Dept. punishes sober drivers, endangers lives

I used to be a sober driver. Perhaps you’ve
seen the red Saturn with the California plates, with
a guy in a Padres cap at the wheel. Since I may be
the only student at W&L who hasn’t had alcohol
during my entire career here, my income while I am
at W&L came exclusively from sober driving. It’s
how I tried to earn some pocket cash. So far this
year, I have earned $250 or so sober driving for
various Greek organization, to whom I am grateful
for the work. V

Let me weave you a tale from last Saturday
night, when I was driving for Phi Delt, shuttling
people back and forth from Poplar Hill. The night
was uneventful until about 12:30am, when a LOT
of people started to need rides from Poplar Hill,

_ which, if
MoDERArE’s MUSINGS Y°u’re un-

‘ familiar, is

CALEY ANDERSON  way out in
K—*"_$) K" the coun-

try. There weren’t all that many sober drivers, and
Traveller was having trouble getting rides out of
there frequently, if for no other reason than the
distance. 4 _

So, I’m doing my best to get people in and out
as quickly as I can, because I’m hearing the usual
cries of “if I don’t get a ride in ten minutes, I’m
driving drunk” and the like. I drive because I need
income, but I also drive because I feel like,I’m sav-
ing lives. Time, therefore, was of the essence. Yet,
despite this, I was pulled over several times last
evening by the Lexington Police Department. The
penultimate time was innocuous enough- there
were a bunch of obviously intoxicated people
hording in front of the Poplar Hill house where Phi
Delt was having its party, and the officers there
were checking to make sure everyone was sober
before leaving and that everyone had a ride. Sen-
sible enough. As they let me go from that stop, the
rather kind and understanding ofﬁcers urged me
to get back as soon as possible, or they feared
there would be either arrests, or people driving
drunk, neither of which they (or I) wanted.

Thus, right after this, I was taking three gentle-
men (students at UNC who were visiting) back to

' Phi Delt, and as I made the turn from Nelson Street

onto Washington Street (that little curvy intersec-
tion at the top of the hill across from the Hampton
Inn), once again I see lights ﬂashing in my rear
view mirror. I’m assuming it’s another sobriety
check and I’m beginning to become annoyed that
the Lexington Police are keeping me from giving
people rides home. The officer asks, smugly, “you
know why I pulled you over, right?”

“No, sir,” I reply. “Speeding,” he says.

Speeding. Now that’s a trip. As I had made
my way up Nelson Street, I reﬂected, I had not
checked my speedometer, nor had I noted the speed
limit. I was going at what seemed like a reasonable
speed, given that there was absolutely no traffic (it
was about 1:30am by now), and that all the lights
were green.

“I clocked you at 43 in a 25 mph zone,” he
said, the mandatory smirk on his face. I tried to
explain the situation, that there were dozens of
people back at Poplar Hill who needed rides and
were threatening to drive drunk, and that I was

just doing my best to keep that from happening.
But no.

“Well, if you had just slowed down, you
would have been fine,” the officer (who shall re-
main anonymous) says, as he gives me the cita-
tion. The citation is a notice to appear in court
on December 28“: which is during Winter Break,
which, intentionally or not, is an effort to keep
me from contesting or even explaining this inci-
dent to a judge and just make me mail in my check.

I don’t know how much I’ll have to pay for
this, but if I just assent to what the officer says
and mail in my check, it’ll likely wipe out most, if
not all I’ve earned sober driving this year. Now
don’t get me wrong, I enjoy sober driving. It’s
not “work” to shuttle very amusingly drunk
people back and forth and to save lives in the
process. But when every single dollar of the hour
upon hour I’ve spent doing this evaporates in-
stantly for such an injustice as this, I tend to
become slightly discouraged.

If I had been “sober” driving drunk? Sure,
pull me over. Arrest me. I would be doing wrong.
If I had been going 43 in a 25 zone with heavy
traffic, weaving between cars late at night?
Sure, pull me over, give me a ticket and a stern
admonishment, I’d deserve it. But when (and
here I’m assuming the officer is telling the
truth) I’m going 43 in a 25 zone with no traffic,

Give students a break with the breaks

photo couriery of antrbo/e. £0.14/e
EQUAL JUSTICE UNDER THE LAW. But is it necessary or fair for W&L sober drivers to be the targets of speed traps?

green lights, and with the knowledge that I
need to move people out of Poplar Hill as
quickly as possible, lest someone decide to
drive drunk and something awful happen, do
I really deserve a ticket? If the officer had
issued me a warning, even, I would have got-
ten the message, and I would have been me-
ticulous about observing the speed limit for
the rest of the night. But no, it had to be a
ticket. Iknow that the law is the law and that
it must be enforced, but does that mean that
officers must completely abandon any pre-
tense of empathy? Does it mean that they
should abandon common sense by hurting the
very people who are keeping drunk people
from driving, when they have an obvious op-
tion to avoid it and to simultaneously ensure
future adherence to the law?

After I pulled away and dropped off the
people who were with me at the time, I checked
the clock. 2:00. I was scheduled to stop driv-
ing at 2:00, but I knew I should keep driving
until everyone who needed a ride got one,
and there were a ton of people back at Poplar
Hill who still needed rides. And then I did
something I know will karmically come back
to haunt me one way or another- I ignored
those people. I drove back to Gaines and
stormed into my dorm room in a huff.

To all those who I left at Poplar Hill, and
to the people at Phi Delt who were counting
on me to come through, I apologize. I wronged
you and I hope none of you caught any
trouble or injury as a result of my selfish an-
ger. '

But damned if this didn’t bring into my
mind the possibility of abandoning sober driv-
ing altogether. The results of my sober driv-
ing expeditions are a net financial loss now,
since I had to pay for gas, not to mention my
higher insurance rates. Also not to mention
the opportunity cost for the work I could have
been doing for my four classes, where I’m way
behind.

I’m not contesting that I sped. I don’t

, know ifl did, but I’ll trust that officer’s word.
I’m contesting the justice of giving someone
in my circumstances a ticket when I’m doing
my best to contribute to the public good (and
at the direction of the officers at the scene
who had told me to get back to Poplar Hill “as
quickly as possible” to give more rides). I
thoughtiat first that I should work at getting
this ticket overturned and to force Lexington
to prove its case against me, but then, I
thought, I more than likely was speeding. It
would be wrong for me to burn taxpayer dol-
lars on my trial simply out of vindictiveness,
especially when none of MY tax dollars would
be going to that trial, being a resident of Cali-
fornia. The right thing to do, the honorable
and gentlemanly thing to do, is to mail in the
check, since I am probably guilty, and since I
trust the officer is telling the truth about my
offense.

But what am I supposed to take away from

' all of this? What’s the lesson the police are
trying to teach me here, aside from the obvi-
ous “don’t speed”? I would have learned that
simple lesson ifl had been issued a warning.
But instead, the message I’m getting from the
City of Lexington is that it’s not worth it to
sober drive. Ifl accidentally speed once in a
very great while, it would cost me less to sim-
ply allow my fellow students to hang and, per-
haps, to drive drunk and kill themselves or
others. What am I supposed to do? It’s pretty
clear to me.

So, congratulations to the Lexington Po-
lice Department, which I actually used to de-
fend against what I then viewed as the unfair
attacks of my fellow students. You win. I’ll
just mail in my check. You’ve beaten me into
the ground by pulling me over three times in
one night (this isn’t even the first time
THAT’S_ happened), the first two for sobriety
checks which I passed with ease, then finally
finding an excuse to cite me for speeding on
the third time, and then scheduling my court
date at a time three days after Christmas when
I’ll be with my family, on holiday in California.
Along with my hundreds of dollars of hard-
earned cash, you get my assumption that the
police will not listen to what I have to say,
along with a very bitter student who is quit-
ting sober driving.

Turkey Day is drawing
near, I have already whipped

' out the Christmas music, and

I have seld_om been so in
need of a break from school-
work. I am a firm believer that
breaks are essential for me
and all college

students. Just

to be able to go

home, spend
time with family,
have a room and
bathtub all to myself, and

_ time for some desperately

needed movie—watching, is a
nice way to get strength and
motivation back for the rest
of the year. Or at least the
weeks or months before the
next one comes along.

In fact, the period of
back to back breaks is about
to begin. Think about it.
First there is Thanksgiving,
then Christmas, and then
Feb. Break all within about a
month of each other. But
then what happens?

The only break for the
rest of the year is Spring
Break. If you a freshman sit-
ting there thinking Spring
Term is itself a six—week va-
cation? and you end uptak-

ing more then one class you ’

will find yourself sorely mis-
taken. Sorry to burst your
bubble. The classes are fun
and intensely—focused, but
the work load is not signifi-
cantly lighter.

So, feasible or not, I
would like to propose some
break amendments. Two se-
rious concerns are foremost

in my mind. First of all, we
are like the only school in the
country that gives a week off
for Thanksgiving, which is
incredible, but only get two
weeks for Christmas (or Win-
ter Holiday to be more politi-

cally cor-

j‘j'j‘""—'—‘—‘ 1'6ClI). I’m
THE BIG PICIURE sorry, but
ANNE FINLEI/‘07 that is Pa-
——~1——~ thetic.Itis
the only

chance each year besides
summer to feel like you are
actually home again, instead
of feeling like some strange
kind of temporary visitor, and
you have to leave as soon as
you are starting to finally
feel settled.

I don’t care what it takes,
take a day away from Thanks-
giving, turn Feb. Break into
“Reading Days”, or simply
have us start the year earlier.
Just let me go home for more
than two weeks at Christmas.
After all, it is known in sappy
holiday songs as the “most

‘ wonderful time of the year”.

Also, the layout of
breaks and semesters as a
whole seems to have some
ﬂaws. It almost seems as if

’our’school.,doesn’t want us
to stay friends with peers._
- feel like thingssho11ld_b,e\_
being constantly adapted

back home.

First there is the afore-
mentioned pathetic length of
Winter Break, which is liter-
ally the only time off during
the year that coincides with
those of other colleges.
Summer is the same way. We
start the school year signifi-

cantly later then most other
schools and thus return as
much as a full—month later.
In my mind, this is just
wasted time. Being more in
line with alternate sched-
ules would be so much
easier and allow for the
possibility of including old
friends in Spring Break trip

plans etc.
And from a summerjob/in-
ternship perspective,

which is extremely impor-
tant considering that the
whole point of continued
education is to move to-
wards a career, getting
home later than other col-

" lege students puts you at a

disadvantage in competing
for jobs.

And the search for in-
ternships in our situation
has to begin well before
summer break, while still in
the throws of stressful
classes.

I don’t see any reason
why most or even all of
these changes couldn’t be
made. Unless there is some
kind of clear purpose be-
hind the way things are,
and not just something be-
ing maintained for the sake
ofgsirnplicity or tradition, I

to fit the needs of the stu-
dent body. .

We, or mostly our parents,
are paying the bills and de-
serve to have a say. Breaks
are wonderful, but there is

still room for improvement.

Problem with Dems was Kerry

Whether you are a conserva-
tive, a liberal, or somewhere in be-
tween, the question on everybody
’s lips seems to be “What happened
to the Democratic Party?" The Re-
publicans secured an increased ma-
jority in Con-
gress and
P r e s i d e n t
George W.
Bush was re-
elected by a majority in both the
electoral college and the popular
vote.

So what went wrong for Kerry?
After all, with a liberally biased me-
dia touting a unpopular war (no, Fox
News and the Wall Street Journal
alone cannot balance things out),
economic struggling (though on the
upswing right now), and an unprec-
edented voter turnout, the Demo-
crats were certain of victory.

But they didn’t win; they
ﬂoundered and they lost. And what
a bitter loss it was for those rooting
to see Bush out of ofﬁce (guess
you can’t call a re-elected president
the “Great Divider’ ’ anymore). So
now anyone and everyone who can
get their hands on a microphone is
hypothesizing about what went
wrong for the Dem’s. Many, includ-
ing the party’s own leadership, are

. saying that the party needs a mas-
sive overhaul, that this election has
shown the Democrats as divided,
vulnerable, and frankly unappeal-

‘\irig"to the general public,

I disagree with this assertion

. (no matter how much I would like to
believe it) and if conservatives take
this rhetoric to heart, then they may
ﬁnd themselves at a disadvantage
in 2008. Yes, the Democrats lost, an
unexpected result for liberals every-

GENERALLY SPEAKING
WHITNEY DUFFEY ‘O8

where and even some pessimistic
conservatives (ie—Tucker Carlson).
However, the Democratic Party is
not a political anachronism whose
strength has faded. In fact, expect
them to come out swinging in 2008
(is anyone look-
ing forward to
seeing more of
Hillary Clinton?).
The problem is
not at the heart of the party and
what it stands for (nor is it the lack
of celebrity endorsements from the
left coast). The Democrats simply
made a few, key, correctable mis-
takes regarding this one election.
First of all, Kerry was the
wrong candidate. Come on, the guy
has a penchant for “X-treme
Sports.” How can you not make fun
of him for that? But seriously, Kerry
didn’t have much middle class ap-
peal._Besides his goofy hobbies, it
was his general style, his wealth
(unlike the “rich but still wear my
blue jeans and cowboy hat” Bush
style), and his aristocratic wife
(can’t you see her saying “Let them
eat cake!”?) that all made it pretty
easy for Republicans to portray him
as just a little bit more European
than good ol’American. Not to
mention the fact that, truly, Kerry
was a very very liberal Democrat.
No matter how much his party tried
to label him as a moderate, his vot-
ing record (when he did vote that
is) didn’t lie. Even look at his choice
for n1’nningmate,John.Edwards; a

personable, attractive, and vibrant 5

young politician who many likened
to JFK. It was a ﬂagrant attempt to
liven up Keny’s image (aren’t Vice
Presidents supposed to be" the bor-
ing ones?) If he needed John

Edwards to stimulate his campaign
(no matter how hip his
snowboarding and windsurﬁng is)
that should have been a clear sign
to the Democratic leadership that
they were going in the wrong direc-
tion.

Besides choosing the wrong
candidate (not like they didn’t have
plenty of choices either), the Demo-
crats basically campaigned wrong.
They placed too much emphasis on
the war in Iraq, the economy, and
national security. So when none of
these turned out to be the n1iser—
able failures they expected, the
Democrats lost their steam. Then
they just counted on the fact that
voters would take the “ Anybody
but Bush” stance and ignore the
fact that an ultra-liberal,
windsurfing, vaguely European
ﬂip-ﬂopper was running on the
Democratic ticket. Oops.

So, while November 2nd was
a triumphant day for the Republi-
cans, I would strongly urge con-
servatives to be cautious in their
victory and not to get too com-
fortable just yet. While John Kerry
and the focus of his campaign
may not have been the right

-choices for this election, the ba-

sic principles of the Democratic
Party are still quite appealing to
many people. Those Democrats
(although I would like to believe
otherwise) will have learned from
their mistakes in four years and
will give the 2008 Republican can-

ididatea rim for his (or herD,rr_oney.
So, unless Hillary is their norni-‘

nee (which will mean the Dems
learned nothing from 2004) don‘t
expect to have seen the end of the
donkey just yet.

I

_ I

R

U

 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVERMBER 15,2004 '

PAGE 5



Keep an eye on W&L green

BY JOHN BOVAY
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s golf
team, although it receives little attention
on campus, is having one of its most
successful seasons in history. The team
has played in ﬁve tournaments this fall
and already has two wins and two third-
place ﬁnishes.

The year started with a September
trip to St. Andrews in North Carolina,
where the team ﬁnished third in a rain-
shortened tournament, losing by only
three shots over 18 holes. In early Octo-
ber, the team traveled to Yale, where they
played one of the greatest courses in
the nation and defeated Division I teams.

After the Yale tournament, the team
kicked it into gear, winning the Virginia
State Championship in Midlothian with
a come-from—behind four—shot victory.
A third—place finish at Randolph-Macon
was a slight letdown, but the team re-
bounded with a seven—shot win at the
McDaniel Ocean City Classic in Mary-
land. I

The team is a young one with three
freshmen and four sophomores among
the nine players on the roster. However,
it is not without strength and experience,
as sophomore Ted Williams (Vero Beach,

I Fla./St. Edwards School), senior captain

Ged Johnson (Darien, Conn./Taft
School) and sophomore Matt Nickles
(Columbia, S.C./A.C. Flora) all earned all-

ODAC honors last season.

In addition, freshman Nathaniel
James (Keller, Texas/Keller) leads the
team with a 74.4 scoring average, just
ahead of Williams and Johnson, who
both average 76.0. James has three top-
three ﬁnishes this year, and has finished
second in the last two tournaments.

The team, ranked 13"‘ nationally by
Golfstat, has seen the results of hard
work this year. Williarns explains, “you
practice so much, you work so hard. . .it
always feels good [to be a champion].”

Williams won the VSGA State
Championship in rnid—October, and at-
tributes part of the team’s success to
the outstanding freshmen players, who
are “pumped about playing and really
want to play well, [which] motivates vet-
erans.” .

Johnson is similarly enthusiastic
about this year’s freshman‘ class, but
also credits the sophomores, particu-
larly Williams and Nickles, for their in-
creasing maturity that has led them to
“blossom” as players this year.

Johnson also believes star fresh-
man James is “an incredibly mature

freshman.” Sophomore Barrett Daws

(Atlanta, Ga./Holy Innocents Episco-
pal) added, “We have solid talent from
freshmen and good senior leadership
from Geddes.”

For many athletes at W&L, athletic
failures leadlto frustration and a diver-
sion of focus from athletics. This team’s
focus, however, has led to success that

Men’s golf team already looking like a threat in ODAC and NCAA

Johnson describes as “kind of like a
dream.” The team’s success has been
so “surreal” this year that it seems in-
evitable they’re “going to
collapse. . . .Every round, everyone plays
well. . .it’s so much fun to be in the spot-
light.” '

The new course in Buena Vista, the
Vista Links, has been a boon for the
team...when ‘they get’ to play it. Will-
iams “really loves it out at BV” and em-
phasizes the quality of their practice
range. .

Johnson agrees about the lacking
facilities at Lexington, the team’s current
home course, and criticizes “the athletic
department for not giving us the re-
sources to succeed. It’s a great course
and we need to be playing it very soon.”

Despite this complaint, the team is
in great shape. Their two wins so far
this year equal the total from the previ-
ous three years, and their 13“‘-place rar1k—
ing tops their ranking at any point last
year. The outlook is bright for the rest
of the season, as the team plans to “pump
iron” and “start pounding some range
balls” during the offseason, according
to Ted Vlfilliams.

This fall, the team has had more suc-
cess than most teams at W&L. After a
mid—season break, the team should be
able to improve on their five top-ﬁve and
eleven top—ten finishes individually.
Look for this team to be a threat in the
ODAC and make a strong run at the
NCAA Championship.

Barker leads soccer
team to strong ﬁnish

 

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals women’s soccer
team finished off another great year
with an impressive overall record of
12-4-3 including going 8-2-1 in the
ODAC. They were able to accomplish
this feat in large part due to the lead-
ership of senior goalkeeper Emily
Barker.

Barker has had plenty of back-
ground in soccer, playing her first
game in kindergarten. However, it
wasn’t until sixth grade that she
stepped into goal. The state cham-
pion soccer coach saw her playing
basketball and saw her potential as

goalie.

She helped Washington and Lee,
seeded third in the ODAC tournament,
get its revenge against Virginia
Wesleyan. “We worked hard all sea-
son and it really paid off in that game”
commented Barker.

The Generals shut out Virginia
Wesleyan 1-0. Shana Oltmans scored
the games only goal and Barker made
5 saves to protect the lead.

The team’s season came to an
end, however, in a hard fought battle
against top seeded Lynchburg Col-
lege.

Looking back on her collegiate
soccer career, Emily Barker’s best
memory was winning the ODAC cham-
pionship in her sophomore year. “It
was the first championship in the his-
tory of the program and we won it in
penalty kicks after a 0-0 match.”

Barker is very honored to have
been a part of the team for four years.
She is grateful for the opportunity to
play soccer at W&L.

“I’m very thankful to W&L for
allowing me to have the opportunity
to play four different varsity sports.
My soccer memories will last a life-
time. I love this team and wish them
all the best in the future. They are
amazing people and fantastic soccer
players with tons of potential. I look
forward to hearing about another
championship next year!”

 Tuesday  

Vvednesday

0 Women’s Swimming‘
at Sweet Briar — 6:00

Fﬁday

- Women’s Basketball vs. ‘-
Mt. Holyoke (at Brandeis) —— 8:00 ﬁr” . .

Me

   

 

 

  want to baconie a doctcaf’

 
     
  

iswzmmmgj.’  :at,IB_23¥nzs»:awr--2:06 ’
'  -vs. Nazareth

Sunday

0 Men’s Basketball at NYU
Tournament -— TBA

 

to March 1 .p

  Re ality:

\

if you or someone you known wants to pursue a career as a
doctor, apply during the application period of September 1

For more information, visit www.jl1u.ectulpastbac or cal!
41 0-51 6-7748.

e and math com'se-sj,§

“I dan‘t l’12i‘s°‘E the

The Johns. Hopkins F’-‘cost-B.ac£:ai::aur“ea’te Premeldicai Program
prepares college graciuates with strong academic: records to
apply to the best merzlical scheme by giving them the

personal attention, the necessary scienc
and one-to-one academic advising.

required cottages for
n1edica.l srhool. 

 

JOHNS 

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Pragraai

PAGE 6

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

Riding on the momentum of the
ODAC championship, the Washing-
ton and Lee volleyball team per-
formed successfully at their fifth
straight NCAA Division HI Touma-
ment. ‘

The tournament included the 48
best teams in the nation and took place
at Emory University in Atlanta on
Thursday and Friday evening.

In the first game, the team easily
downed Maryville with a score of 30-
28, 30-25, 30-23. Emily Wolﬁng, a se-
nior outside hitter, led the team both
on and off the court. Along with co-
captain Jennifer Lux, the two kept the
team mentally focused.

On the court, Wolfmg tallied nine
kills and 25 digs. She was comple-
mented by junior middle blocker Su-
san Gaillard, who racked up eleven
kills and four blocks.

The entire team posted solid all-
around play and displayed the team-
work and talent that makes them so

 

Morton, NOVEMBEL 1_5,2(ﬂ4

SPORTS

Volleyball team
returns successful

successful. With the victory, the
team advanced to the second round.

The Generals were matched up
against Emory, who came into the
game with a 29-9 record. In a very
emotional and hard—fought competi-
tion, W&L fell to Emory in four sets.
Each point was a battle, but the Gen-
erals kept their composure and at-
tempted to rally for the win the last
two sets. Emory held on, however,
and the final score was 23-30, 24-30,
30-23, 27-30.

Emily Wolﬁng again led the way.
“Emily is a huge asset to the team.
Vlfithout her, we would never have
gotten this far,” said freshman Shaun
Edwards. ODAC Player of the Year
Christine Gladysz exhibited her tal-
ent by amassing 84 assists and
twelve digs.

Other standouts of the touma—
ment include Laura Byme, Ashley
Hurt and Taylor Gibson.

The loss ended a hugely suc-
cessful season that included an
ODAC championship, a trip to
NCAA nationals and a 28-8 record
overall.

Cross Country places in op en a regionals

Johnson, Erickson prepare to go to nationals later in year in Wisconsin

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

At the beginning of the year, men’s
cross country coach John Tucker said
that his team “absolutely” had a chance
to compete for the ODAC title. He knew
this opportunity would arise from the
combination of the strong returning lead-
ership of senior Steven Chambers and
some fresh talent from junior Nathan
Johnson, recently recovered from an in-
jured first two years. The addition of
ten new freshmen, including Alex
Mahoney, proved the perfect combina-
tion for the goal at hand.

Coach Kris Hoey of the women’s
team had similar goals for her women’s
team. The team, determined to have a
successful season, put in several miles
of training over the summer. Hoey be-
lieved that this willingness to put the
work in over the summer, along with
“depth and talent. . .the themes of the ’04
team,” would carry the women to an
ODAC title as well.

Returning talent for the Generals
included sophomores Tippins Stone and
Jenny Ratzel. The addition of several
sophomores, including Lindsay
Erickson, Jessica Buckingham, and
Kelley Zwart, were counted on for fresh
talent.

After a successful season of top ﬁn-

ishes, the men’s and women’s teams con-
ﬁdently traveled to Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia to compete for the ODAC title.
Tucker’s and Hoey’s determined teams
came through and both respectively
claimed the top spot at the competition.

On the men’s side, as anticipated,
Johnson won the race. Johnson remains
undefeated in the 2004 season. He was
named ODAC Runner of the Year and
ODAC Men’s Cross Country Scholar-
Athlete of the Year. Mahoney followed
closely, claiming the second place finish
for the Generals. Freshman Andrew
Friski also claimed a ninth place and all-
ODAC performance finish for the team.

On the women’s course, freshman
Lindsay Erickson claimed a first place
finish and sophomore Tippins Stone
secured the title for the Generals with a
close second. Erickson was named
ODAC Runner and Rookie of the Year.

This was the first time since 1994
that the Generals have claimed both
ODAC titles. Coaches Tucker and Hoey
were both awarded ODAC Coaches of
the Year for their teams respective per-
formances.

As ODAC champions, both teams
qualified for the South/ Southeast
Regionals in Atlanta, Georgia on Satur-
day. “We’re all excited aboutregionals,”
said Stone before leaving for the com-
petition. “Only the top team goes to
nationals and the top five individuals,

and there are 21 teams competing, so
we’re focusing on the Virginia teams
we’v,e raced before.” The teams are also
looking to be named Academic all—Ameii-
can which requires an average GPA of
3.5 and a top 25% finish in the race.

In Atlanta, Johnson again led the
General’s claiming a first place finish in
the race and an opportunity to compete
at nationals in Wisconsin on November
20"‘.

Johnson said, “Going into the race,
Coach Tucker and I decided that the
main goal would be for me to get top 4 in
the race and guarantee a spot to nation-
als. .. I guess somewhere in the fourth
mile I took over the lead from Emory’s #1
which was pretty exciting‘ cause I was
like, ‘Wow I can actually win this.’”

Mahoney and fellow freshmen Tom»

Brower claimed the second and third
place finishes for the Generals with a 21*‘
place, and 31*‘ place finish respectively.

Freshman Lindsay Erickson, in only
her second year competing as a runner,
placed third for the women, also earning
a chance to compete at nationals. Jun-
iors Debra Kubas and Betsy Frayer
claimed the next two places for the Gen-
erals with 50“‘ and 51*‘ places respec-
tively. ‘

The men finished in 6"‘ place and
the women in 9”‘. Johnson and Erickson
will now prepare for nationals in Eau
Claire, Wisconsin.

 

  
   
 

  bore,

   
 
 
 
 

  seasoiisince 1995
' and its _ﬁrs£,‘$ix—win.season- since 2985
 I I .Victéi%¥ov¢r.Gr¢e!¥Sb0r°C°1-
A, page   in Greens-

  

     

W&L Womeifs Swimming

Defeats Guilforri, 108~84,

and Holliiis, 1’74~58 (11/23)

The Washington ‘and Lee women’s
swimming team improved to 5-2 overall
and 4-0 in the ODAC with wins over
Guilford, 108-84, andﬂollins, 174-58, on
Saturday‘ afternoon at Hoilins Univer-
sity in Roanoke, Va.

. W&L Football Places Five on

Academic All—District Team (11/11)
Five members of the Washington and
Lee football team have been selected to
the COSIDA Academic All-District III
team which was released on Thursday
afternoon.

=pAS.T W E E K ’ s SPORTS IN B R I E E .. .

W&L Womeifs Basketball Picked

Seventli in ODAC Poll (11/11)

The Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball team was picked to ﬁnish sev-
enth out of 11 teams in the Old Domin~
ion Athletic Conference Preseason
Coaches Poll which was released on
Thursday afternoon at the conference’s
media day.

Write
Sports
for
Marshall

e-mail

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
' Rnphlne, VA 24472
scomszzo - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the °r°°k_
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yai-ns.'kilS.__!jl¢>6d1*$ and
accessories. Custorner service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made WY-

CﬂforworkdIop&dasslnfoI'm1Iﬂ0ﬂ-

Halfway between Lexington and SIIIWIIOVI
0n I-81 / I-64 a! exit 205, Ranhinl. 49711758 W051 0"
Rom;   Road. Located Una W075”
farm that ofers "U-PICA” oppoﬁﬂniﬁlsfo’ fmh
fruit when in season.

'llies - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
:ﬂMm 

  

  
 

ma Ri%rLSfu Ping

 

LIFE

EMILYEW/Arne
ARlS&I.lFEEDl’IOR

Ewu_~EDvnrDsavr@vvtun1i

PAGE 7

Washington and Lee students: embrace your elite status


_ MARY CHILDS ‘08

As we are all aware, Washington and Lee University has a
bit of a reputation. For academic excellence, you say? Of course,
but that’s not what I’m discussing here. Oh, then that whole #2
in the nation thing? Also true, but no.

No, I am referring to the classic W&L reputation that we are
all snobs. We are, supposedly, cocky in our own abilities as
student, partier, winner—of—the—Civil-war, and God knows what

else, and we tend to wave this flag of arrogance wherever we go. I

I, personally, have found this generalization to be all too true.
People at Washington and Lee are, in fact, snobs. And with
good reason.

A while back, a few of my friends and I decided that it would
be a good idea to maybe visit some of our other friends at other
schools, for a change of pace, and, since they had visited us so
damn much, it was kind of our turn. So we pile in to the car, all
ready for a superfun evening at this college’s “Homecoming” —
I won’t name the college, to protect its reputation as “fun.”

We honestly did try. We danced around, met new
people, we laughed and we cried with high school buddies,
we went to a concert and listened to the music, we really
tried to do it. But by the time the clock struck twelve, I
could deny it no longer. I wanted to go home.

Finally it came down to the fact that if we left soon, we
could be in our beds and happy and therefore preserve the
potential fun of tomorrow night, instead of not sleeping
tonight and sacrificing the whole weekend to Awful Home-
coming_Night/Pretending to Enjoy This.

And yes, I know that we were certainly perpetuating the
image of the W&L snob, as I leaned on a wall with a sneer on my
face that said “I am just too cool for this,” when really I meant “I
am just too tired and bored to pretend I am having fun.” But, as

‘ we drove home at 2:30 in the morning, singing ourselves awake,

having more fun in the car ride home than that entire night, the
truth was as apparent to us as the road kill we dodged. Maybe
we act all superior  because we are.

I mean, let’s be logical here. The admissions process
picks out the best and the brightest. Those that get into
schools such as Princeton and Harvard usually go; we’ve

/"'
 Criifﬁceton
Review

The Smart
_. Students

  
   

- 710,000 students speak out
about their colleges’ classes.
professors. dams social
scenes, sports. and more

5 Everything you Media knew
about admissions and
ﬁnancial aid

 
  

Asvseen an the
TODAY SHOW -check our Mrm your
' pmspa-ctiva cottage: rank

In our top 20 lists

   

 
 

* , Sonar! Firm:-k..‘ vni:i;- .1:-n-o Me-;r.-er. rt :1
COURTESY OF BARNESANDNOBLECOM

WHERE’s rm: SNOB RANKING? Washington and Lee would rank #1 for
elitism if the Princeton Review ranked it. Just visit your friends at other
schools and find out for yourself.

just weeded out all the losers. Add in the Princeton Review’s
free advertising of our superior socializing abilities, and
chalk up another point to the “cool” factor. So we’ve got
that edge, too. Clearly, Washington and Lee has struck a
perfect balance between smart and fun. To those schools
that are smarter than we are, we can stick out our tongues
and toast to our ever-bettering social skills. To those
schools that claim to have more fun, we can employ their
students later.

 

Now, I’ll admit, friends of mine that go to other schools do
love it there. But come on — it’s college. Of course they do. The
only thing is, not everybody loves their school as consis-
tently and as adamantly as we do. Friends in North Carolina
complain of homesickness; friends in the mountains of Vir-
ginia complain of overpopulation, easy classes, nasty peers.
I try to sympathize. I listen hard, and I put on my best sadl
interested face, and nod when appropriate, but underneath
it all I am just confused. Why is your school not like mine?
What went so wrong there that is so right here? And then I
feel bad when my complaint storage is empty and I have
nothing to offer my sad Other-College friends. Somehow,
throwing out “um, sometimes our free safe-ride Traveller is
s1ow...and I have to wait” just pales in comparison.

So really, I think I’m glad I went on that horrible college
trip. I took away some valuable lessons from it, for which I am
very grateful. Having been here for a while, I had started to
get used to my surroundings. I wanted to complain with the
cool Upperclassmen, too, when rides were slow and lines were
long. I, too, complained about workloads and conflicting
schedules when I know for a fact that I am a perfectly happy
camper and that the aforementioned worries probably won’t
faze me. There is an innate danger in_getting used to all of
this around me.

Without my trip to Loserville University to show me oth-

- erwise, I might have forgotten to appreciate the wonder and

glory that is Washington and Lee University. The five of us
that drove up to Not-As—Cool U. and turned around and drove
back, we know. Now when we’re standing in the cold quad
like the awesome freshmen that we are, we’ll remember that
we are being treated like princesses,‘ and we will shut our
mouths when tempted to bitch about the wait. Not to get all
sappy, but sometimes I forget how this place looked when I
first visited, and how jealous I was of the Uber—chic college
kids strolling around in their Birkenstocks and popped col-
lars.

I am happy to be surrounded by really smart people, to be
able to carry on intelligent conversations even when my com-
panion won’t remember it, and to be able to safely assume
that even though you may be partying too hard to keep your
head up, you’re probably brighter than I am. And I appreciate
that. In short, Washington and Lee has earned its reputation
as being elitist because its students are elite. And there’s
nothing in the world wrong with that.

Th's Thanksgiving, don’t forget to be thankful for the small hings in your life

79

rain.

Yes, I know it sounds cheesy, but it

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Sitting on the kitchen table at home is a
little ceramic jar with the words “Thariksgiv—
ing Cup” on it. Before you eat, you’re sup-
posed to put a coin (or two or so) in it and say
something that you’re thankful for. When the
jar gets full, my family donates it to some char-
ity usually the benevolence fund at church.
Over the years, people have given me serious
grief over this cup. They say, “You’re making
me pay for my meal.”

The cup’s original purpose was to keep
me humble. When I was little, I had a greedy
streak. I wouldn’t share and was generally
ungrateful. When my parents first putthe cup
in front of me, I was really pissed off. Why
should I put a quarter in this stupid jar? I
said something stupid, like “I’m thankful for
the ’air—conditioning.” And thus the tradition
began. We would say things like, “I’m thank-
ful for my health” or “I’m thankful for the

made me think of so many things that I take
for granted.

It was through this cup, though, that I
began to grasp the true meaning of Thanks-
giving. Sure, I enjoy the turkey and dress-
ing, sweet potatoes, green beans; the list
could go on and on. But Thanksgiving holds
a deeper meaning thanjust food. For me, it’s
coming together as a family and realizing how
God has blessed_ us.

And even though I’m not from Dallas (my
Aunt and Uncle live there— does that count?),
I enjoy watching the Cowboys play.’ Friday
means true drama: My cousin, an Aggie, some-
how managed to marry a Longhorn. And so
Thanksgiving means healing deep, cavern-
ous football—esque rifts. As for me, I always
just brave the crowds and escape to the Gal-
leria. My dad seems more willing to accept
my massive credit card bills around the holi-
days

Last Thanksgiving I was thankful to be
passing Chem 111. As I recall, that response

accompanied each coin that I put into the cup
for many days during Thanksgiving and
Christmas breaks. And this Thanksgiving,
I"’_m thankful that my dad is alive and healthy
after having a massive heart attack last year.

It’s easy here in MicroLex to lose track
of what’s going on in the real world. We live
in a bubble of sorts, complete with kegs of
blue beer and kegs of red beer. I guess Demo-
crats have to drink too.

‘ And this Thanksgiving, whether we be-
lieve that America should be fighting in Iraq,
we ought to be thankful that» there are so
many troops willing to put their lives on the
line to protect this wonderful country we call
home. And, in light of the recent election, we
should be thankful that we do not have to
listen to takes of “hanging chads” and “but-
terﬂy chads.”

But as for the Thanksgiving cup, I may
tell my parents to pass it around at the next
dinner party that they have. I did see a pair
of shoes online that I must have. Does that
count as a charity?

PI-I01" O COURTESY OF WWW/.ARMY .M1L

AN ARMY or ONE. This Thanksgiving, be thankful for
the thousands of men and women who put their
lives on the line to protect our country.

Cruise!

From $459

1-800-678-6386

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party

5 Days $299! Includes Meals,
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica

Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTravel.com '

Parties! J-

 

ATTEN QM ALL

It is your class that will run
the 2008 Mock Convention.
Are you interested?

Please join us for an information
session.
Tuesday, November 16
7:00 pm _ ,
Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.

New Opticians

Extreme Fun!

For all your vision needs

203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

www.newopticians.com

Boutique

Oakley
Maui Jim

come to

540-463-7440

    

   

    scam-r rntnrme,

g»... -:..______...I-

EMBROIDERY
464-9042

£137 ‘Weddell St.

Lexington Va.

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS

- $1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non-sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa
Rica. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
end|esssummertours.com

  

 

 

THE

PAGE 8

  
 

’fE‘H£~i FUN ;~:1i;;\«r Pill

AST ORD

FN1LYF.owARos
ARlS&LlFEEDlIOR
EMA1LE)wAR1m4@\xuJE>U

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

Forgetbeing thankful— what are you not thankful for?

I consider myself a very grateful person. I say my thank
yous and always do my best to writethank you notes. If some-
one helps me out I try to remember that so I make sure to return
the favor one day. '

However, there are a few things that I am just not grateful
for. There are some things that I wish had never been invented,

some events I wish never would have taken place, and some '

people that I wish never would have been born.

So, since it is getting to be Thanksgiving time, I figured I
would “unthank” anything that I am not grateful
for. I know it sounds a little anti—Thanksgiving,
but I figure since I have been pretty grateful for
everything else inmy life, I deserve a day of con-
tempt.

-1. I hate it when people use big words that I
don’t know. People will tell a joke with a big word
in it, and I won’t understand the punch line. But I have to laugh
because everyone else is laughing, and they would wonder why
I wasn’t. So then after everyone has left, I will ask someone
what that word meant, and then I will finally understand the
joke, but by then it is too late to fully enjoy it.

2. I also despise watching sports on FOX. While I do enjoy
the Sunday pre-game show forfootball, I cannot stand to watch
the actual game. This feeling was lamented during the baseball

- playoffs when they kept coming back from commercials late and

sharing all their stupid-worthless facts they felt necessary to
tell me, like whenever a starting pitcher is pitching at home ex-
actly 68 days after their wife has given birth, they will win, un-
less of course, the opposing team’s batboy’s name starts with T.
Thanks a lot FOX for ruining sports for me forever.

3. I am not grateful for the desks in the Colonnade class-
rooms. I am no longer majoring in history for just that reason. I

POTATO MAN
_ MARSHALL RULE

could never spend 3 more years in Newcomb listening to lec-
tures in those desks that have been around since Robert E. Lee
was president. Those chairs are simply not conducive to sleep-
ing in, and therefore I decided to find a major that is in the C-
School. .

4. I hate coloring books. I was never good at coloring as a
child and all the other kids made fun of me. They teachers told
us to stay inside the lines, but I was a child who needed to be
free from rules and restrictions, so I disobeyed them, and as a
punishment was forced to undergo severe public
humility. Ever since that moment I have been
scared of them, and I also hold an intense hatred
for any kid that is good at coloring. '

5. I hate apples that aren’t red. I don’t know why
this bothers me, but it does.

6. I have never understood why some windows
on campus are painted shut. This is just stupid. Windows are
made in such a way that enables people to open or shut them at
will. I figure that the school has paintedthem shut as an attempt
to control temperature in classrooms. However, B&G doesn’t
have to sit in some of those classrooms and deal with the in-
tense heat for two hours. Then again, if painting them shut was
done on accident, well, that is just stupid. " j

7. I hate computer viruses and hate the people who make
them even more. Seriously, who does this? It is sad to think that
there is some 34 year old guy in New Jersey who has never been
on a date, and gets off on the fact that he has successfully
created a virus that has infected thousands of computers across
college campuses. Congratulations Mr. Nevergonnagetlaid, you
are a true American Hero.

8. I really hate lasagna.

9. I get really annoyed at the people that get really dressed

 

MMMGOOD. Who couldn’t like a tasty plate of Mom’s home-cooked
lasagna. Obviously, the Potato Man doesn’t.

up to go to class. I’m not annoyed that they got up early and
take care in their appearance, but rather, I am pissed that they
make me look bad. I’m in college, I don’t like to get up early, I
was up the whole night before studying for my econ test, so
when it comes time to go to class at 9, I’m rolling out of bed, and
wearing whatever I fell asleep in to class. When the professor
walks into class, I’m already at a disadvantage because you’re
wearing a three piece suit and I’m wearing my K-Mart sweats
and a NASCAR t—shirt. So give me a break, pretend you’re a
college kid, and don’t wake up two hours before class to do
your makeup. ‘
10. I hate people that hate.

I know I’ve only been an official W & L stu-
dent for two and a half months. However, I al-
ready consider myself to be an expert on
LexVegas. Between you and me, there isn’t much
to see. I have been there, seen that. . . .. (I’ll leave
the last part off lest it be misconstrued). That
said, it is time to release “The Milk and Cheese
Girl’s List of Favorite Lexington Sites.”

Before you start writing angry letters to the
editor, keep in mind that this list is not endorsed
by Ring Tum Phi. It is the intellectual property of
the Milk and Cheese Girl. The hot and single
Milk and Cheese Girl. (Haha. I’m just joking with
you. I’m not desperate. But did I mention that
I’m hot and single?) Alighty, then. Now that I
have taken full responsibility for this column (and
thrown away my dignity), let’s give it a go.
Drum roll, please ....... ..

“The Milk and Cheese Girl’s List of Favorite

Lexington Sites.” (So official sounding, I know.) i

In no particular order:

1) The Lodge: One can’t go wrong at the
Lodge. The guys are great, and the President’s
room is the place to be. Plus, it is only a stone’s
throw away from the dorms. Freshman: you can’t
get lost on your way home. (Or can you?)

2) Nine Tucker: You can’t find Nine Tucker?
I’ll give you some help: it’s on Tucker Street.
What a concept! (It honestly took me about
three weeks to figure that out. Sad. Sad, but
true.) The residents of Nine

able price. Thank you, Stop In. I heart you.
4) Munster: I love that house. I don’t know
why, but I do. Just trust me

Tucker are awesome guys and
always up for a good time. Plus,
they have cats. Friendly cats.
Bonus points for the neighbors.

THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL
KRisnNE EARLY

'on this one. It is right
across the street from the
post ofﬁce, so get off your
lazy @%" and visit.

(I’ll throw in a free geography lesson: Eleven
Tucker is also on Tucker Street. I know, I’m so
very helpful.)

3) Stop In: Stop In, oh how I love you. You V

are always open to serve my nutritional needs,
be it at one in the morning or four. You offer a
delightful selection of munchies for a reason-

5) Pi Phi: DJ parties
rock my world. ‘Nough said.
6) Salemo’s: Get the chicken parmesan sub.
It is the sole reason I transferred here. You think
I’mjoking, but I’m not.
7) Joyful Spirit: Doesn’t a place_named J oy-
ful Spirit immediately bring a smile to your face?

CORBIN BLACKFORD/ Ring-tu_m P/ii

If your answer is “no” you are a heartless freak
of nature, but don’t worry because Joyful Spirit’s
food will “turn your frown upside down.” (How-
ever, you still may require counseling.) Try a num-
ber one. Muy delicioso. (A little language lesson
for you all... My column is so educational!)

_ 8) The Ice Cream Factory: I can’t believe it
stays closed all fall and winter. The milkshakes
are amazing (and I would know... The Milk and
Cheese Girl) and reasonably priced.

Side note: I am beginning to feel like a food critic.
Tasty! Spicy with a hint of parsimony! (By the
way, what the heck is parsimony? Did I just make
that up? And wouldn’t I be awesome on the Iron

 

  Best and Worst: The Milk and Cheese Giri weighs in on her favorite Lex destinations

Chef?)

9) The Fitness Center: It’ the sole reason I
can down chicken parmesan subs and Stop In
hot dogs. And when I’m lucky I don’t have to
watch football or Judge Judy on the TVs.

10) The Elrod Commons: I love to plop down
with my books and notes and attempt to study.
Once I made it an hour and a half without reading
a single page. That may be a record. No, wait, it
probably isn’t. There are far better procrastina-
tors than I.

A l 1) The Science Library: When I do actually
feel like getting work done, there is no better
place to go. And don’t steal my study spot! It is
very upsetting to see someone curled up in what
is so obviously my chair.

12) Wal-Mart: Wal—Mart has everything a
person could ever possibly need. It may kill 10-
cal mom and pop stores, but who cares? It’s
cheap! You know your life is pathetic when a
trip to Wal—Mart is the excitement of your day. I
personally enjoy the one on one contact with
the locals. ‘

13) My suite: The décor in the common room
may be lacking, but I love my suitemates. The
inordinate amount of pink in my own room makes
me happy. Plus, I have a papasan chair. What
can beat that?

Sorry if you didn’t make the list. I guess
you’ll just have to try harder to impress me for
next time.

Addendum to “The Milk and Cheese Girl’s
List of Favorite Lexington Sites” — “The Milk
and Cheese Girl’s Least Favorite Lexington
Sites”:

1) Leyburn Library: It’s hideous!
2) Leyburn Library: It’s a monstrosity!
3) Leyburn Library: It’s an eyesore!

4) Leyburn Library: It’s a blemish on the face
of the earth! (Honestly, how can we permit such
an ugly building to desecrate the beauty of our
campus? )

 

Q Dear Administration, Don’t ﬁx what aint broke.
Q Freshmen girls — stop rushing so hard. Don’t

tell me what you’ve heard about my sorority and
don’t tell me what sorority you want to join. Chill.

Q Someone tell James Heidbreder after his article
in the Trident to stop lecturing upperclassmen.
Presidents have had an open door policy here for
years, its not Burish’s thing. A

Q Social Probation’s debut Saturday night was
amazing. They are a great band.

Q I love how this school is selling its identity to
apease the rankings. Kind of ironic for a school
based on honor and integrity.

Q Southern Comfort, confirm our friendship.

Q Charlie, please start sharing your music again
so I can listen to Breathe by Fabolous.

Q I just don’t ﬁnd anything funny about projec-
tiles or missiles.

Q Dipping tobacco around people who are eating
is almost as bad as smoking around people who are
breathing.

Q Congratulations to Hugh and Balsak on their
engagement.

Q December is Virginia’s “Crapping in the kitchen”
month. Or it should be according to Sassyhat.

Q I once heard a guy use the pick up line “Well if it
isn’t little Miss Slut Slut.” Sorry, that line doesn’t
really work.

Q “November 11: The Interfraternity Council
passes a resolution that bans dancing in any house
on Sunday. The rule is to be strictly enforced in
the early morning hours.” It happened once and
will again if we don’t ﬁght for our Greek system!

Q Yo! I actually got an ‘E’ as a letter grade on my

English quiz! I’m not even upset... That’s just
awesome!

Q I heart Thanksgiving Break!

Q Yo Gritter, get your facts straight before you
hate on the Skins. Trotter and Barrow were never
on the same team.

Q Things are either ON purpose or BY accident,
not “on accident”...get it right.

Q Professor Allgood, I’m sorry I didn’t do my ge-
ology homework.

"Q Parents Weekend is a very questionable time to
spend the night at a Fraternity House.

Q Young Democrats, have you ever seen an Old
Democrat?

Q Today is America Recycles Day, throw some-
thing in the recycle bin.

Q The first Halo video game turns three today.

Q Happy 47th Birthday to Kevin Eubanks of the
Tonight Show band.

Q The gravity of my need to graduate hit me to-
day. If I don’t graduate the sheep for my diploma
will have died in vain.

Q Congratulations to Nathan Johnson for win-
ning Cross Country Regionals. Good Luck at na-
tionals!

Q Boycott Ben & Jerry’s. They had an efﬁgy of
Bush outside of their factory.

Q No one ever break up with the Editor in Chief,
she’ll recover splendidly and rub it in yo’ face.

Q I heard someone say that they loved the midwest
this weekend. I guess someone has to.

Q Hey boys, Christmas Weekend is the weekend
after Thanksgiving break. Start thinking about ask-
ing someone now!

Q When is it going to snow?
QVI do not like fuzzy bunnies.

Q There has been far too much sexually charged
humor on the Washington and Lee campus. This
is surprising, considering the large number of ran-
dom hookups that take place. Aren’t you people
ever satisﬁed?

Q Do you ever feel like hitting somebody? I do-
you better watch out.

Q Benjamin McKenzie is dating an 18 year-old.
Why couldn’t he have picked me?

Submit your anonymous quick hits and crazy
Thanksgiving stories to phi@wlu.edu.

 

   

 WASH N ANBIEEE UNIVERSITY

PHI

VOLUME CVII. , No. 16
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

Frats survive  weekend, four DUI ’s reported

BY ERIN JULIUS AND CHRIS LAUDERMAN thelastweekofNovember,University securityarmounced

EDlT()R—IN—CHIl'£l7 AND MANAGING EDITOR

Fraternities survived their ﬁrst weekend un-
der the new alcohol enforcement policy with little prob-
lem, but many changes. Parties were moved into hotels,
restaurants, and off campus houses where students
could drink, regardless of their age.

Lexington police chief Bruce Beard reported four .

anests for driving under the inﬂuence and one arrest for
indecent exposure and drunk in public.

“There were an awful lot of alcohol-related inci-
dents this weekend,” Beard said. “I don’t know if that
[enforcement of the alcohol policy] was the reson we
had more DUI’s or not.”

At the Inter Fratemity Council meeting during

 

liked . its
absut ts‘

coldisatiurday,

to"v}atch tlreérty;s"a ,

 -‘frssaw it last year _
thing and it’sso.tcool,’f*‘ ‘ x

 

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STr\I’I~‘ \X’RITF.R

On Thursday evening, the Glasgow Endow-
ment presented a lecture by Roy Blount J r., a well-
known humorist and author. Blount has written
columns for The New York Times, The Oxford
American, Esquire, Rolling Stone, Playboy, and
Sports Illustrated. He was praised by the Chi-
cago Tribune, which reported that “he has be-
come America’s fore-
most humorist.”

Blount is the au-
thor of sixteen books,
including “Robert E.
Lee: A Biography.”
Raised in Georgia,
Blount enjoys com-
menting on American
customs and is an avid
spokesman for
“Southernness.”

The subject of
his talk was his recent
work on Robert E. Lee.
He read selections from
his work, in addition to
sharing interesting
facts he learned about ,
Lee while doing research for his biography. He
presented humorous and often scandalous tid-
bits about General Lee that most people have
never heard. Blount came across many little-
known details. “Lee wore size 4 ‘/2 C shoes. I just
couldn’t get past that- it sounded round! I
thought maybe the author was talking about Trav-
eller or something.” Blount mentioned that we
know relatively little about Lee’s personal life,
but “one thing we do know about him— he was
fond of having his hands and feet tickled.”

Even mundane events in Lee’s life were

Glasgow Ehddwmentspeakeri 
cc ' 9 ' ' I
America s foremost
humorist” talks about Lee

 

CoURrI«:sY W&L News OFI-‘l(ZlZ

Mr. Blount replied that he had an idea for a new

that they would be looking for underage drinking at frater-
nity parties and reporting violations to the Administration
and IFC. '
Allpartiesintlrefraterrrityhouseswillrequirevt/rist—
bands to identify legal drinkers. If security sees a student
drinking in a fratemity house, the security ofﬁcer will ask
the student to show identiﬁcation.
Mike Young, Director of Security and almost every
security guard attended the meeting. According to Brent
" Beshore, President of Lambda Chi, Young said security
would look for underage drinking during  Week-A
end. “No longer will security look the other way when
underage drinking occurs on campus,” said Beshore.
Freshmen men said that alcohol was easy to obtain
off carnpus.“'Ihere didn’t seem to be any formalities in

r r —

presented with wit and humor. Blount recounted
an episode occurring while Lee was president of
Washington College. “When reviewing the
troops at VMI with General Smith, he'wanted to
show that he was out of the army, so he would
purposely walk out of step. That takes a lot of
rhythm. Maybe Lee wasn’t as white as we al-
ways thought.” ,
_ Toward the end of
the lecture, Blount
opened the floor-for
questions, because, ac-
cording to him, this im-
proves almost every-
thing. “A lot of plays
could be improved by
throwing the ﬂoor open
for questions. For ex-
ample, Othello. If they
had opened the ﬂoor for
‘ questions about half-
way through, the trag-
edy could have been
averted.”

. Freshman Dane
Boston related what he
found particularly hu-
morous, “When asked

what he thought of the Confederate battle flag,

Southern flag, incorporating a black hand and

 

white hand clasped in friendship on a symboli-
cally chromatic ﬁeld of blue (the sky) and green
(money), over the motto ‘Just ﬁne. And you?’”

The evening ended with Mr. Blount sing-
ing his original country song, “I’m Just a Bug on
the VVrndshield of Life.” V

“I enjoyed his sharp wit and talent for
storytelling,” said Dane Boston, “It was a delight-
ful Dixie—themed time in Lee Chapel.”

getting drinks,” said one freshman man. “We just had
older friends getting us drinks.”

According to ﬁeshmen, fraternities reportedly fol-
lowed the rules in the house. “You needed a wristband to
get cocktails or champagne in the house,” said a freshman
ml .
“We did not serve alcohol at dinner in the house,”
Erik Kiewiet de Jonge, President of Phi. Psi, said

But University security told a different story. “We
had some problems in the houses,” said Young.

The problems involved serving underage students,
no use of wristbands, and a communal source of alcohol
in four or ﬁve ofthe houses.

Fraternity presidents feel that parties will continue
to shift off campus. Beshore echoed Kiewiet de Jonge in
believing that this will be a trend

“[Parties being moved off campus] depends on
how the school enforces the policy in the future,” said
Kiewiet de J onge‘.

Traveling in and out of the country was not diffi-
cult for students. Fraternities provided sober drivers.
Traveller’s servicesalsoranfrom l0p.m. to2a.m. “lthink
they [the fraternity] gave rides out before everyone started
drinking,” saidafreshman man.”

“It was easy for me to get a ride,” said Drew McWay,
a freshman who went out to the Polehouses. He also
said that the fraternity provided sober drives when-
ever anyone needed one.

One country party had three kegs and hard liquor,
said one freshman man. According to several freshmen
men, champagne and liquor ﬂowed freely at off-campus
houses.

_, , ‘ singing” the  of Christmas
wi om the‘"Academy playing

  

Students advance in Rhodes  

Waddell reaches the ﬁnal stage of interviews

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

This year’s list of Rhodes Scholars does not
include any students from Washington & Lee Univer-
sity, but four students distinguished themselves in the
demanding application process.

Ricky Busby ’05, Robyn Konkel ’05, Jererrriah
McW"rlliams ’05, and Trrnothy Waddell ’04 all advanced
to the semi-ﬁnal interviews, with Waddell continuing
to the final stage of interviews.

There are about 1000 Rhodes applicants every
year. Applicants with exceptional references and per-
sonal statements attend state-wide interviews. Ap-
proximately 100 students advance from the state level
to the eight regional interviews. Four winners are se-
lected from each region—32 total—and receive full
scholarships for graduate work at the University of
Oxford in the United Kingdom.

About six to ten W&L students apply to Rhodes
annually. This year, 13 students and graduates applied
and four received state interviews. Both numbers could
tie or even set a school record, although ofﬁcial docu-
mentation doesn’t go back far enough to confirm that.

Applying for a Rhodes scholarship was an ob-
vious choice for Busby, who is majoring in Medieval
and Renaissance Studies with a concentration in Art
History. “I knew thatl wanted to go to graduate school
and the Rhodes made perfect sense—2 years of fully-
funded study at one of the best universities in the
world.” ‘

Konkel, a public policy major, was familiar with
the procedure after interviewing for a Truman Fellow-
ship in her junior year. Even so, the selection process
was challenging. “’Ihe other ten competitors were
amazing people,” she said. "The interview itself was,

I to put it mildly, intense.”

George Bent, Associate Dean for Student Aca-
demic Support, works as the faculty liason for Rhodes
applicants. His experiences have convinced him that
students here are strong contenders. “Rhodes. . .is
looking for a leader who performs well in the class-
room, who is interested in talking about issues inside
and outside of the classroom, and who is willing to take

intellectual risks,” he said.

This year’s applicants in particular convinced
him that there is a “core group of students” who ﬁt the
bill. And on W&L’s small campus, those students
have more opportunities to get involved in athletics,
community service, and club leadership.

“I would put any of them against anyone else’s
any day,” Bent said.

Politics professor Robert Strong has a similar
esteem for students after supervising the Rhodes ap-
plicants in past years. “Every year the W&L juniors
inducted into ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and other honor
societies plus the recipients of various athletic awards
and acaderrric prizes. . .constitute an impressive group,”
Strong said.

. Bent also insists that the school’s much—vaunted
name recognition comes into play. “Washington &
Lee University carries some clout. They know us,”

V Bent said. “Your next—door neighbor may not know

what ‘Washington and Jefferson’ is, but the people
who matter do.”

Several statistics reflect these strengths. Strong
scoured the Internet for other schools with four Rhodes
interviews; he found none outside of the Ivy League,
national military academies, and a few large state uni-
versities. The University ofV1rginia, with almost 13,000
students enrolled, only received three state interviews
to W&L’s four.

Yet this year’s record numbers and strong appli-
cants did not alter a 13-year stretch without Rhodes
Scholars. No W&L student or graduate has won a
Rhodes scholarship since Patricia Lope.s—Harris in 1991 .
In comparison, the News Office reports that six W&L
students won scholarships between 1973 and 1983.

Bent says one large obstacle in recruiting for
Rhodes is that many students consider themselves to
be unworthy of a scholarship.

“[W&L students] go to Nicaragua. They work
in soup kitchens. They do things,” Bent said. “They
should be knocking my door down, but instead they’re
all bashful with their hands in their pockets.”

Out of this year’s 32 winners, 16 are women and 16
are men. The most successful schools were Harvard. with
ﬁve winners, and the U. S. Naval Academy, with three.

’ ton to include a martini bar opened its

' says this time the date is definite.
‘ of gourmet and international cuisines,

I as well Internet shopping and an
4 online cataloge, the 14,700 square-foot

' and Washington D.C. and was Demi

V King. There will also be a cyber-café,
' come to study.

J‘ opening of the store have been long
and frustrating, with constant rumors

 open and whether it is connected with

 legally or financially connected with

/, ﬂy  .. . ..I
-uw§9...... .. 

PAGE2 DEC {F8 2084

The first grocery store in Lexing-

doors on Nov. 20. A grocer carrying
gourmet cuisines from around the
world, has been trying to open for al-
most two years, but owner Erik King

Besides offering a wide selection

store located in the Lexington College
Square Shopping Center will have two
separate restaurants, Café Mohring
and Matsumato Sushi Bar.

Sam Matsumato, the sushi chef,
has owned restaurants in Richmond

Moore’s personal sushi chef during
the filming of GI. Jane.

Cafe Mohring will offer a full cof-
fee bar. “We’re going to be the
Starbucks of Lexington, I think,” said

where King hopes local students will

The months leading up to the

circulating about when the store will

Foods of All Nations in Charlottesville.
The Charlottesville store is not

the store in Lexington. But Erik King, the
owner of the Lexington store, is the son of the
founder of the Charlottesville store.

King’s father is still on the board of di-

’ rectors at the other store, but the two are run
" separately.

Although King’s family remains close to

the Charlottesville store, King said the rela-

BY LEAH KERSHAW
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University President

. Tom Burish, who began his work with the Ameri-

- can Cancer Society 20 years ago when he accepted

a grant for cancer research, has vowed to drasti-

» cally reduce cancer rates during his term as chair-
’- man ofthe ACS.

Burish is proud to be the new chairman of

‘ the ACS, the largest nonprofit voluntary health or-

ganization in the world. Burish said that it is a “privi-
lege to follow exceptional leaders.” As chairman of

— the ACS, Burish will be working with millions of

other people to reduce cancer rates in America.This

’ year alone 1.3 million people will be diagnosed with

cancer and 550,000 people will die of cancer related

' illness.

International grocery store opens after t

BY MEGAN WARD
STAFF WRITER

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

I CORBIN BLACKFORD / THE RrNc;—TUMPHI

tions between the two are strained. The
Charlottesville store says otherwise.

Butch Brown, CEO and president of
Foods of All Nations, says that the relation-
ship is fine, and he hopes the Lexington store
will be successful.

‘ “I think that Lexington will benefit from a
store like that,” said Brown.

By the year 2015, Burish’s goal is to have
reduced the age adjusted incidence of cancer by
25% and cancer related deaths by 50%. The ACS
has partnered with the Center for Disease Control
and the National Cancer Institute to meet this goal.
Every year since the mid l990’s, the rates of both
age adjusted cancer mortality and the incidence of

cancer have decreased. Burish said the decrease is K
i the result of fewer people choosing to smoke. 25-

30 % of cancer related deaths are affected by smok-
ing.

Burish outlined a multifaceted plan to reach
his goal. Health education in schools must be in-
creased to stress to importance of healthy habits
such as exercise early in people’s lives. The mass
media will continue to play an important role through
commercials and advertising. ACS has also recently
joined in a partnership with the American Heart

GAB looking ahead after problems
with Christmas Weekend scheduling

Leaders plan for “three or more” events during winter, spring

BY KATHERINE SHELL
ASST NEWS EDITOR

After the excitement on
campus surrounding the Christ-
mas Weekend band sponsored
by the General Activities Board,
students were surprised to
learn that neither band was ac-
tually as available as the GAB
had previously thought. How-
ever, the GAB looks forward to
booking more bands for this
year and using the student sur-
vey again to determine which
bands the students want to see
perform on campus.

W&L students were
polled over the weekend of
November 5, with Better than
Ezra and Pat McGee winning
over Bone Thugs ‘N Harmony
by 7 votes. After the survey,
the GAB attempted to book Bet-
ter than Ezra and Pat McGee for
Christmas Weekend. Because

of family conﬂicts, Better than
Ezra was unavailable, and the
GAB withdrew their contract.
The second runner up, Bone
Thugs ‘N Harmony, was offered
a contract, but was unwilling to
comply with a previously agreed
upon contract. The GAB was
unable, because of unexpected
circumstances, to book a band
for Christmas Weekend.

Next semester, the GAB
plans to have “roughly three or
more concert-like entertainment”
this year, says Hartley Meiic, ’07,
and a member of the GAB. The
GAB is looking into attempting
to book Bone Thugs ‘N Har-
mony for next semester. Lauren
Peters, ’O6, President of the Gen-
eral Activities Board, said, “We
cannot disclose at this time ex-
actly what bands we are look-
ing into for next term, but we do
hope to utilize the student sur-
vey again.” She also added,

“We are looking into the Harlem
Gospel Choir for spring, and al-
ternative entertainment options
such as Peking Acrobats or
Harlem Globetrotters.” Students
will definitely have input on
which bands will visit the W&L
campus in the future.

In the past, the GAB has
been able to book such bands
as Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe

‘for Homecoming 2003, and has

been sponsoring General Com-
edy in the Commons every
Wednesday night where stu-
dents are able to see student
opening acts and professional
comedians. Also, the GAB has
organized Common Grounds in
Café ’77 with live acoustic per-
formances. This year, GAB
brought Keller Williams for
Kellerween, and Drive By Truck-
ers for Homecoming. Students
can look forward to more acts
visiting Lexington this year.

SUSHI IN LEXINGTON? The Matsumato Sushi Bar is getting rave reviews
from Washington and Lee students and professors. The Phi has yet to '
hear whether Cafe Mohring is really the Starbucks of Lexington.

King decided to start the store in Lexing-
ton after his brother had opened a Foods of
All Nations in Virginia Beach. But the" Virginia
Beach store suffered after Sept. 11 because
many military personnel stationed there were
called for duty shortly thereafter. Sales
dropped from $20,000 to $3,000 a day, and the

- Burish vowes to pursue ambitious goals with American

Association and the American Diabetes Associa-
tion. All three organizations have united to provide
the same message about protecting oneself from
disease.

Additional research is also important to re-
ducing cancer rates. Through research, doctors will
be able to provide better..scre.enin,g and diagnosis
for cancers that are currently not fully understood.

The ACS funds $120 million of cancer related
research a year. This money comes from the $800
million dollars the ACS raises every year. Around
90% of the money raised by the ACS is the result of
voluntary contributions averaging $40. As a result,
the ACS is not beholden to any one group and can
direct its money wherever it deems necessary.

Burish acknowledges the difficulties which
will be involved in balancing his duties as Presi-
dent of W&L and as chairman of the ACS. Burish

wo year delay ~

store had to close after only six weeks.
The financial losses incurred
from the closing of the Virginia Beach
store would not allow the company to
open the Lexington store. King then
broke away from Foods of All Nations,
and took matters into his own hands.

King has been trying to open the
Lexington store since November 2002,
but was delayed by the death of his
brother, who had started the
Virginia Beach operation, in
May 2003.

King doesn’t believe that
competition from his store will
endanger any other Lexington
businesses. But local coffee
shops and groceries like
Healthy Foods and Lexington
Coffee seem to target a similar
consumer profile.

While Lexington Coffee
and The Daily Grind declined
to comment, Jo Parent, man-
ager of Healthy Foods, said
that she hasn’t talked to any-
one from Foods International
so she doesn’t know if they’ll
be carrying similar products.

“Any time an enterprise
moves in everyone is af-
fected,” said Parent, but
adde_d that she isn’t sure ex-
actly how Foods International
will affect her business.

“I really believe in net-
working,” said King, who said
he will work with already es-
tablished local business, hoping that his
store's presence will increase the amount of
business for everyone.

And King is a firm believer of the ‘gas
station’ theory: “The more gas stations you
have on a corner, the more gas is sold,” he
said.

Cancer Society

maintains that his priority is W&L. Working the
ACS has helped Burish to better connect with stu-
dents and alumni whose lives have been touched
by cancer. Burish himself lost his father to cancer
several years ago.

Burish also names W&L’s tradition of ser-
vice as a factor in his continued volunteerism. “How
could I not_have ‘service as a value, I’m not doing
anything that the majority of students, staff and
alunmi don’t do” said Burish. While Burish ac-
knowledges that his current position as chairman
of the ACS might be more visible than other volun-
teer efforts, it is certainly not any more important.

The ACS is optimistic about Burish’s terms I

as its chairman. John Seffrin, the CEO of the ACS
said, Burish “has provided steadfast and visionary
leadership to the society and has never wavered in
his abiding commitment to our lifesaving mission.”

Cold weather, maybe snow, expected soon

BY ETHANJAMESON

STAFF WRITER
Students and local residents looking for-
ward to snow can expect the area’s first snowfall
any day now. A late, colder—than—before winter is
anticipated.
According to regional weather
forecasters, temperatures I
may have plummeted and
rain has started to fall, \ ’/
but here in southwest
Virginia, folks can expect /“'
to wait until December
for the first predicted snowfall.
“Perhaps after Decem-
ber 4-7 time range, we’H ﬁnally
see some significantly colder air, and
a pattern shift occur,” said Wally
Mayo, a meteorologist with
weatherroanoke.com. “As for the gen-
eral season outlook, we are in a weak
El Nino status. Personally, I feel such
times are fairly good for signiﬁcant
snows.” _

A Mayo also feels that we have a
65% chance of greater than nor-
mal snowfall this season. 4

According to Scott
Lancey, a forecaster with Mid- _
Atlantic Weather in Lexington, Va., “It’s un-
usual for the Lexington area to receive accu-
mulating snow right after Thanksgiving but we

usually have had some snow by December 10th.”
Lancey added that the type of weather expe-
rienced in November usually is not an indicator of
what the overall winter will be.
Forecasters also predict a much colder win-
ter than in previous years.
David Weit, chief meteo-

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 

rologist of the National Oce-

anic and Atmospheric

A Administration’s
_ Blacksburg, Va., ofﬁce,

said that, “The NWS —

National Weather Service

- is calling for a colder win-
ter than normal with precipitation
at or slightly below normal.”
Richard Dunn,'webmaster for
the Central Virginia Weather
Station’s website, agrees with
the winter forecast, adding that
“the general consensus that I
have seen is that this winter
will be colder than normal in
this part of the country.” ,
Dunn was quick to
add that, “However, colder
A V _ weather doesn’t always
translate into more snow.
 The long range forecasts
that I have seen have been
split between normal to above normal
precipitation.”

Q83

  

Several campus organizations host events marking 16th annual World AIDS Day on December 1st

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

December 1, 2004, marked the 16"‘ anniver-
sary of World AIDS Day. Various campus groups
marked the day the raising both money and aware-
ness. ‘

GayLaw handed out red ribbons and‘ raised
$450 from law student and faculty for the AIDS/
HIV Services Group of Charlottesville. GayLaw
President, Tamara Graham, believes the event was
a great success. She noted that they enjoy working

with a local group, such as the one in Charlottesville,
because “we can emphasize that AIDS has touched
all of our lives and isn’t some mystery out there in
the darkness.”

On ,the undergraduate campus the Gay-
Straight Alliance also hosted several events. They
teamed with LIFE to sponsor free HIV testing in the
Student Health Center. In a short two hour span,

nine people were tested. The GSA and LIFE also

brought a piece of the AIDS quilt to be hung in the
John W. Elrod Commons. The twelve by twelve
section, composed of panels representing people

who have died of AIDS, is just one of 5,683 pieces
of the AIDS quilt.

The GSA also sponsored a showing of “Phila-
delphia,” a movie starring Tom Hanks as a lawyer
dying of AIDS.

Both GayLaw and the GSA thought it was
increasingly important to celebrate World AIDS Day
given the growing problem of AIDS across the
world. Graham states, “ AIDS affects our commu-
nity so powerfully, and by our community, I mean
our large community—not just the gays.” She cites
the Women’s Law Student Organization and the

Black Law Student Association’s support of the
World AIDS Day as showing that all people can
find a connection to AIDS that inspires them to
help. GSA Treasurer Theresa Dougherty notes that
“by increasing awareness and encouraging people
to get tested, we can help prevent the spread of
such a devastating disease.”

UN health officials believe there are 39.4 mil-
lion people world wide infected with the HIV virus
and that number grows daily. Students can receive
confidential AIDS testing in the Student Health
Center.

 

 

I

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

rat_‘-:R:N<_;-rtrr»~:l’nr. ‘
ST FF EDITORIAL
Phi calls for safety

Washington and Lee University is no
longer a safe place to drink. It’s
counterintuitive, but pumping up security
patrols and using wristbands to identify le-
gal drinkers creates a dangerous social at-
mosphere. _

We are not making an argument for un-
derage drinking. The law is the law and we
can’t argue with it. _

Underage drinking in a college town, es-
pecially one as small as Lexington, is to be
expected. Students are leaving home for
the ﬁrst time and testing and enjoying their
freedom away from their parents. Drinking
is simply the most exciting, and dangerous,
privilege of adulthood.

Washington and Lee students are a
smarter-than-average bunch, but that doesn’t
mean we all understand our limits with alco-
hol when we enter as freshmen. Part of
growing up and creating your identity is
making mistakes. The old Washington and
Lee understood that, and did its best to en-
sure a safe environment for its students.

The Washington and Lee of today, in
the same spirit, is trying to create a safe en-
vironment but may be making the situation
worse. Enforcing the alcohol policy has al-
ready moved more parties into the country.
Even with the best Traveller service money
can buy, students will probably be tempted
to drink and drive at ever-increasing rates.

When students were allowed to drink
in fraternities, the dorms and most homes
were within walking distance. Security pa-
trolled through fraternity houses frequently
enough to intervene in a bad situation or drive
someone to the hospital.

In addition to the dangers presented by
country parties, there is another, purely so-
cial, aspect. In the Washington and Lee of
old, all students were welcome at all parties
because parties were held in fraternities.
Country parties are held in private homes,
which will segregate the student body fur-
ther into exclusive groups. Lost is the sense
of community created through open parties.

Inevitably, Washington ‘and Lee students
will  Enforcing the alcohol policy will
only make drinking more dangerous.

 

“Notre Dame is willing to do anything to be
NCAAfootbal1’s powerhouse again, including
selling out their academic standards .”

~ESPN SportswriterAlan Grant

  
 

r   RIM}-TIEM.

   

OPINIONSEDIIOR

mm m

INI

   

PAGE 3

Alcohol, the White Book, and sober driving, on my

This week I had so much on my mind that
I’m going to be talking about three issues- first,
I address some reactions to my sober driving
piece. Then, I move on to the dismal fate of the
“Withdrew Vs. Dismissed” White Book amend-
ment that I and a hundred other students pro-
posed. And finally, I talk about alcohol, for ob-
vious reasons.

Sober Driving

Thanks to everyone who wrote in with com-
ments and thoughts on my last article in the Phi,
which detailed my recent sober driving misad-
venture. I got two major ideas

And then, of course, there is the 2 ton el-
ephant in the room, the fact that the EC has been
unable or unwilling as of yet to eriact any real
Honor System reform. A few weeks ago they
voted down what I thought was a very well-
reasoned out and viable amendment from Ms.
Kelly Jo Larsen, a senior, who argued that the
partial definition of an Honor Violation as “ly-
ing, cheating, or stealing” amounted to codifi-
cation, and that students are beginning only to
classify actions as ‘HVs by the standard of
whether they are “lying, cheating, or stealing.”
She proposed that the EC remove the “lying,
cheating, and stealing” phrase, arguing that stu-

dents can define for themselves

from a110fY0’~1- The first W35 a what is honorable’ or not, and
fhat Y0“ {Cally half? the I-ex‘ MODERATES MUSINGS that they were already of the
lngton P011“ Department Pm CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6 opinion that lying, cheating, and

not sure that they specifically
target W&L students for minor
infractions, as some of you assert, and I think
that on the whole they do a very good job. I just
wish they’d be a little more understanding of
the problems/motives of sober drivers on cam-
pus. The second sentiment I got from your let-
ters was regret that I, personally, was quitting
my sober driving gig, and exhortations to keep
fighting the good fight for the University and
for my fellow students. I cannot thank you
enough for your sympathy, but I really can’t re-
sume sober driving, at least not in the immediate
future. I really can’t afford even risking another
ticket, in a simple financial sense. But I have
much appreciation for you anyway.

Amendment to the White Book

I wrote an article a few weeks ago about the
inherent unfairness of the current White Book
policy of labeling a dismissed student’s tran-
script either “withdrew” or “dismissed” based
on whether the student left after a closed or open
hearing, respectively. Many of you signed the
petition that brought this matter, with the help
of EC members Thomas Worthy and Wheeler
Sparks, to the EC’s attention.

I was both encouraged AND disappointed
with the EC’s response. There were actually two
proposals, one that would have changed the
wording to ALWAYS be “withdrew,” and one
that would have changed the wording to always
be “dismissed.” The “withdrew” proposal was
voted down unanimously. The “dismissed” pro-

posal wasvoted, down 11-0, with’ two absten-O

tions, Worthy and Sparks.

I was encouraged by the fact that the EC
did not dismiss me outright, as Ifeared they might.
There was a highly productive discussion, and
in particular Craig Hensel, Marie Trimble, and
Justin Arnold brought up some points that I had
not considered. A lot of light was shed on the
real pros and cons of switching the White Book
over as a result. The EC has shown me that it is
willing, at least, to give real thought to student
opinion as to Honor System change.

‘I was disappointed, naturally, that the EC voted
both measures down. Some members of the EC
did not speak, ask questions, or‘ really partici-
pate at all in the discussion, and at the end of
the dialogue, they simply voted “nay” without
comment. I had hoped for more than that.

stealing were dishonorable. The

EC voted this down 8-4 (Wor-
thy, Nunez, Duddy, and Stafford were the four
dissenters), but I never really heard a persua-
sive argument against the amendment. Some
felt that it was valid, but not important enough
to act on (isn’t ANYTHING related to the Honor
System important enough to act on?) Others
felt that the “no codification” rule and the “ly-
ing, cheating, stealing” standard balance each
other out rather than contradict each other,
something I find highly questionable.

The point is that the EC is beginning to ap-
pear generally opposed to change when it comes
to the Honor System. This is crucial in a period
when our concept of Honor must not become
stagnant, lest it begin to resemble a set of rules
or a simple code of conduct, as has happened at
other schools with “Honor Systems.” The
White Book is not perfect, nor is it the unques-
tionable, final word when it comes to the Honor
System. It can and should be changed in a sig-
nificant way. The change I ask of the EC is not
the destruction of the Honor System or of the
Single Sanction. The request is only for fair-
ness, and for a renewal of vitality, for fear that
Honor at our University will otherwise drift
slowly away into obsolescence.

Alcohol

I have to tread carefully here. I’m not ex-
actly a big fan of alcohol, in fact the only time
l’ve ever had it was when I was three. In those
days I would steal my mom’s wine coolers with
the studied precision and efficiency of the
stealthiest of ninjas. Thus, feel free to call me
on it if you think I say too much with too little
experience.

Both of the bitter, bickering sides in this
debate would do well to be honest with them-
selves. The administration should not kid itself
by giving us the line that they are simply en-
forcing existing policy that was already on the
books. Those policies have gone a long time
without really being enforced, and the adminis-
tration should know that an alteration of the kind
they are arguing for WILL have a dramatic ef-
fect. I know that part of the University’s rea-
soning, stated or not, is to escape from legal
liability, should something tragic occur, and this
is valid. If a freshman dies this weekend at a
fraternity from alcohol poisoning, the school can

and will be successfully sued for millions. But
the student argument that enforcement will push
drinking off-campus where it cannot be con-
trolled is also valid. The administration and the
Board of Trustees can’t pretend that off-cam-
pus drinking does not exist, and it should know
and care about the fact that enforcement of the
kind they are advocating will actually increase
the risk of things like alcohol poisoning and
DUI. They cannot simply wash their hands of
the likely sicknesses and (perhaps) deaths that
will occur as a result, increased Traveller fund-
ing or no. The University will have to sell a
better solution than that.

{On the other hand, the alcohol culture of

_W&L should not kid itself either. As I said be-

fore, the administration can’t simply wash their
hands of the likely danger of pushing drinking
off-campus. But make no mistake- if drinking
does go off-campus as a result of enforcement,
and people start dying, the blame will rest
squarely on our shoulders as students, and not
on the administration’s. It is a piece of propa-
ganda wielded fearlessly by many that “heavy
drinking will always happen ‘on this campus no
matter what,” and while it may technically be
true, it is not something to be quite that proud
of. Some students remind me of the little kid

_ who, being informed that he could not swim in

the family’s swimming pool by himself because
his mom is afraid he’ll drown, tells his mom that
he’ll go play by the train tracks instead, where
mom can’t supervise him.‘ It’s a threat of
GREATER harm to oneself designed to draw a
response out of fear (or concern for us) from
the parent (or administration, in this case), and
I find it childish and immature to a tiresome de-
gree. We are not children. Freshmen to seniors,
we have all demonstrated not only intellectual
maturity, but superiority, in gaining admittance
here. Thus, of course, the 21 year—old drinking
age IS foolish and ought to be reduced to 18,
and I think to some degree the students have a
point that they ought to enjoy certain freedoms
while here. But on the same hand, since we are
mature, rational adults here, the administration
has a point that we shouldn’t throw about the
threat of drinking off campus, thus sending in-
numerable student drunk-drivers into those
bloody films that they show in driver’s ed
classes. That’s intellectually AND morally bank-
rupt.

The issue is not as simple as either side would
like to make it. If a solution that really works is to be
found, it will take a lot of discussion and probably
end up being a complicated and much-argued—over
compromise. What will result in disaster is if the
administration tries to railroad over the students, or
if the students pack their bags and leave in a huff for
Zollrnan’s (or wherever). The administration should
be willing to REALLY listen to the students and to
implement a plan that is at least half-satisfactory to
them. The students should try to understand where
the University is coming from, and not try to make a
claim to absolute freedom of action.

The sort of hostility and unwillingness to com-
promise that I’m seeing is not worth student deaths.
As I said before, all the people at this University are
rational, mature adults- students, faculty, staff, ad-
ministrators, and trustees. I am conﬁdent that we
have the brains to make a plan that works.

Editor in chief Erin Elizabeth Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauderman

 

News Editor Sarah Murray
Asst. News Editor Katherine Shell
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Emily Edwards
Sports Editor Marshall Rule
Photography Editor Corbin Blackford
Layout Editor Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Asst. Layout Editor Emily Hulen

Business Manager David Seifert

Circulation Director Rob Rain

Asst. Circ. Directors Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson‘
Yinyan Li
Rohan Poojara

Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb
Copy Editor Amanda Tholke

The R1'ng—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-rum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate ‘$40

 

Ups and Downs -

sweet, sweet taste of infallibility.

put their kids through, uh....co1lege.

SVU- E
University and I'm a GUY.

_ ﬂ Before Colin Powell even resigned, of Condi Rice-
“Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the next Secretary of State.” Ah, the ~

Beer- 3 I guess brewers will just have to ﬁnd some OTHER college to

I feel creeped out by the ogling dude from Southern Virginia

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Plants in the Commons- <I:{> Good lord. I thought they had gotten rid
of the infernal Vietnam of plants that used to inhabit this building, but
apparently the holidays are all about the wreaths’.

VMI- ﬂ Congrats to our Lexmates for taking down Virginia Tech the other
night, both on the court and in a certain Phi editrix’s heart. Way to go,
Keydets. Ok, THAT’S the last sports one.

 

Notre Dame- Let me play the bleeding heart liberal for a moment.
Davie— gets his full term as a coach despite being horrible. Faust- gets his
full term as a coach despite being horrible. VVrllingham— gets ﬁred early
despite doing better than either Faust or Davie because.....well, let’s be
honest, it’s because he’s black.

BCS-  In more college sports, Auburn gets the short end of the stick.

NFL- ﬂ San Diego....super Chargers, San Diego....CHAAAARGERS!
Remember kids, the Chargers are the only team powered by DISCO.

NBA- 3 Both fans and players are to blame. Solution- don’t throw crap
at players. Also, don’t go INTO the stands to beat up fans.

Holidays- ﬂ Apparently the season starts at Halloween now.

MLB- ﬂ Bonds “didn’t know” that the steroids, which he obtained from
the steroid man at the steroid shop, were steroids. Sure, Barry. Sure. Last
sports one, I swear.....or not. What can I say, it’s an interesting sports month.

Supreme Court They bob and weave, passing the law ball around
looking for an opening until bam, they rush in and dunk it. This court is
picking its battles well, and isn’t being activist OR stodgy.

John McCain- ﬁ Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the next Republican
nominee for President of the United States. And if I’m wrong, hey, I’ll be far
away from W&L by the time it’s proven.

Pixar- 3 Every time I think they can’t POSSIBLY make a movie better than
THAT one, they do.

Caleys’ Fall 'I‘errn Professors- ﬂ Anagram of “Rush, Velasquez, DeLaney,
and Machado” is “Ouch! He’ll squeeze and rave a mad day!” The squeez-
ing I get from all of them, the raving from one in particular.

Zen- C-:5 Zen students used to work for years at menial tasks, driving
their minds and bodies to the brink, until, in the midst of this exhaustion,
some offhand remark by their teacher would enlighten them. Anyone else
feel like that right now? I mean, I’m all about the enlightenment, it’s just the
menial labor that I don’t care for.

Stop-in- ﬂ Traveller adds a stop there, offering the opportunity to say
“I’ll stop at the stop in stop.” Or, alternately, if you were going to try to
PREVENT someone from stopping at the stop-in stop via telegram, you’d
say “Stopl Don’t stop at the stop-in stop stop.”

Redundancy-T] Isn’t it funny?

Redundarrcyﬁ Isn’t it funny?

 

    

PAGE 4

  

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004



Carissa’s leftover
thanks to give— why
we should be happy
at W&L and at home

Before Thanksgiving break, I couldjust
imagine being snuggled into my own bed,
watching the snow fall, listening to the fire
popping and cracking in the fireplace, hav-
ing a wonderful meal with friends and fam-
ily, and putting up the Christmas tree.

I am usually a level-headed person, but
the sentimentality of the holiday season al-
ways gets to me. My favorite day of the
entire year is Christmas, and in my excite-
ment and anticipation, I don’t really give
Thanksgiving its due. This year, things
changed. I have so much to be thankful for
that I really wanted to appreciate Thanks-
giving as more than a step-
ping stone on the way to
Christmas.

iWhile the bad always
comes with the good, I think
we have a lot to be thankful for here at
Washington and Lee. For many people I
know, college was a struggle. They only had
one choice of where to go and sometimes
did not even have enough money to make it
all the way through.

When I think about the struggles of
adults who go back to school, students who
have to work their way through college, and
people who never got the opportunity to go
at all, the first thing that I am thankful for is
that I am here. '

Everyone knows the party scene here,
but our parents would be quick to remind
us that they sent us
here for academics.
While some people
might consider the
academics as being
just a small part of the
education they are re-
ceiving, I don’t think
that we could ask for any better. I hate tak-
ing general education requirements and
think that physical education classes
should be electives, or at least worth credit,
but our classes are made bearable by our
wonderful professors.

Not all teaching styles mesh with learn-
ing styles, but there have been several
classes that I passed only because of de-
voted professors who have spent endless
hours babying me through every step of the
material. There have been professors who
stayed late and came in early just to fit into
my busy schedule.

Even though I sometimes leave office
hours frustrated, I always leave knowing
more than I did when I walked in. I feel like
I really know a lot of my professors. I’m in-
terested in their families and who they are.
When your professor invites you to have
dinner at his house with his family, you

Letters to the Editor 

IN THE I1ioNs
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘07

So as you are in the midst of the holiday
season, remember that both Christmas
and Thanksgiving remind us to count

our blessings. A

know you are very lucky to be at such a
special place.

Speakingsof great, accessible profes-
sors, each of us has at least one support-
ing us at every turn. They are our advi-
sors; pushing us to do better, recommend-
ing classes, and keeping us onitrack. We
are at a point in our life where we have a
lot of pressure to decide what we want to
be. No longer do we get to dream and fan-
tasize about what we want to be when we
grow up. Now we have to decide.

My mom always said that every de- A

cision can be undone, but
we’re tightly weaving the
tapestry of our lives, and
nothing can be completely
undone and erased from
our memory. Everything we do will either
set us forward or backward, but we can’t

stay the same, just as experiences won’t ’

let us return to one point in our past. Dur-
ing this important time, our advisors can
take our dreams and turn them into the re-
ality that we will live for the rest of our
lives. Even though a lot of people can plan
the course of their college careers, our ad-
visors are our safety nets and I am thank-
ful that there is always someone here,
watching out for me.

The last thing that I want to mention is
the environment in general. I’m thankful for
small classes, inti-
mate discussions,
the speaking tradi-
tion, and most of all,
the honor system.

The honor system
allows professors,
administrators, fac-
ulty, and students
to place faith and trust in one another-

the same qualities‘ thatrwe celebrate'dur- -'

ing the holiday season.

So as you are in the midst of the holi-
day season, remember that both Christmas
and Thanksgiving remind us to count our
blessings. I don’t know anyone who is more
likely to get distracted by family, friends,
presents, going to movies, hanging out
with high school buddies, and just being
sidetracked in general than me so I know
it’s a challenge to appreciate this season
for whatever it might mean to you.

But during a time of finals, projects, es-

says, and stress, just thinking about the I

wonderful things we have and saying thank
you or Merry Christmas to the people who
make it easier for you to deal with these
things all year long can put things into per-
spective and add to the joy of the holidays.

You gotta ﬁght for your right

PARTAY. Every fraternity, and W&L’s unique social scene, are threatened by the new enforcement policy.

Usually, I try to be original. When ev-
eryone else wrote about the election, I wrote
about my lab top. (By the way, I love my
new mac!) But this week, I must follow the
pack. So, if you are sick of reading about
the new drinking rules (which you shouldn’t
be, since you faithfully read my article first,
right?) I must warn you.
What follows is a full-out
bitch session. And I am
about to use my position in
the public eye to further my
own goals. But since you are a W and L stu-
dent or someone close to one, I bet we share
some of the same interests. I am willing to
venture that partying is something near and
dear to your heart, too. (I know that it is a
sin for us to have interests outside of the
classroom, but sorry, it can’t be helped.)

Apparently, I picked the wrong year to
transfer. The school I love... Wait, the
school I loved , is morphing into every other
small liberal arts college in the nation. No
more drinking in the fraternity houses? I
hate to be the grim reaper, but social life here
at Washington and Lee is dead folks. Dead.

No. I am not being over dramatic. It’s all
down hill from here folks. Don’t believe me?
Think that off-campus parties can keep the
social scene alive? I don’t want to burst your
bubble, but trust me on this: unless we do
something to stop the “fun police” our way

I of lifewiill'5come to'an'e:i1'tli’I‘tisis‘ad but true.

Dickinson, a long time ago, was once much
like Washington and Lee. But its good days
were over long before my arrival. As one of
my former classmates was quoted on
www.princetonreview.com: “We still hear
about ‘Drinkinson’ but we’re all wondering
‘ where the hell it went.” '

And where the hell did it go? (I’m not
sure if I’m allowed to swear in a school news-
paper. Well, *&"% that. I’m on a tangent.)
“Drinkinson” died the day the administra-
tion outlawed drinking in the Greek houses.
Some less educated students remain oblivi-
ous to what they are missing out on. One of

_ my ex—classmates even told the Princeton
Review that, “the students at Dickinson are
smart as hell and love to party like rock

  have fun. But, you and I
_ KmsnNEEARLY‘07 ’

FILE PHOTO

stars.” Haha. Yeah right. Only if “rock
stars” sit around in their rooms doing shots
of Stoli’s before they hit the streets. Cam-
pus security at Dickinson forced us to be
closet drinkers. I don’t want to be a closet
drinker. I have good Irish genes, and I’m
damn proud of them.

I don’t need alcohol to

both know that it has some
amazing and welcomed side
effects. Some people drink
so they feel more confident. Others drink
to forget their problems. I drink because
somewhere in between Natty Light num-
ber 2 and 3, I get the idea that I can dance.
I wasn’t blessed with rhythm. I can’t clap
a beat, and I am horrible at scansion- the
reason I’m not an English major. But after
a drink or two, when Eminem comes on
the radio, I decide that I am the next white
rapper to hit the scene. It doesn’t matter
how much I slur. The important thing is
that I know all the words- even if they
come out in the wrong order. Band par-
ties and dj parties just don’t hold the same
allure when everyone shows up stone-
cold sober. But maybe that’s just my opin-
ion.

So for the sake of Snackbar Jones and
the Pi Phi djs, I am making a proposition.
Drunk dial an alum. (OK. Maybe you
should be sober ‘for'that.)' Let the admin-
istration know how much we hate these
new policies. Do it peacefully, and do it
respectfully. But do it. Complaining to
each other won’t get anything done. And
maybe complaining to the board won’t ei-
ther. But there are a lot of people out there
who have fond memories of the good ol’
days. And they do have pull.

' We must band together. To para-
phrase Bill Pullman’s inspiring speech
from one of my favorite movies, Indepen-
dence Day, “We can’t be consumed by
our petty differences anymore. We will
be united in our common interests.. We
are fighting for our right to [drink]. 
We will not go quietly into the night! We
will not vanish without a fight!”

   

Cross Country runner criticizes sports coverage

Dear Editor,

I have seen my share
of laziness and disrespect
for the subject that is be-
ing reported on any given
day in the media, but as a
member of the
crosscountry team and out
of concern for any future
in journalism you may
have, I felt it was neces-
sary to point out the ex-
ceptionally egregious er-
rors in your article on

"cross country in this

week’s Phi.

As a matter of fact,
you waste no time in
showing that you have

made no effort whatsoever .

to investigate the progress
and success of the cross

country team when your

headline says “Johnson,
Erickson prepare to go to
nationals later in year in
Wisconsin”.

Later in the year as in
December? Maybe over
Winter Break, or on New
Years Eve? You were ob-

viously too lazy to even be
lazy enough to just assume
that they are running at
Nationals this Saturday.

At least you made the
effort to look in the media
guide to quote our Coach
saying we “absolutely” had
a chance at competing for
the ODAC title, but didn’t
take literally five more min-
utes to peruse it, saying
one sentence later that
Nathan Johnson “recently
recovered from an injured
first two years.”

Unless attending Will-
iam & Mary inflicted some
unknown mental or physi-
cal pain on Nathan, I’m
pretty sure he transferred
here and didn’t run his first
two seasons of
crosscountry, and that it
was in fact AJ that was in-
jured. W e l 1 ,
maybe you got bogged
down in the inextricable
complexity and confusion
of the 2004 W & L
crosscountry media guide,
and overlooked that

Nathan and AJ, although
they have the same last
name, are in fact two dif-
ferent people!

That’s only the first

paragraph of your article
though. You start your sec-
ond one with “Coach Kris
Hoey of the women’s team
had similar goals for her
women’s team.”
At least this is just repeti-
tive and stupid sounding,
and not a blatant lie, you
just sound like Brick from
Anchorman. The next sen-
tence, you say that the
girls, determined to have a
successful season, “put in
several miles of training
over the summer.” What
is several miles? Maybe 7,
8, 10 miles the whole sum-
mer? The cross
country race itself is sev-
eral miles! Actually, I
think you’re right, I think
everybody that runs cross
country just throws in a
hundred meter sprint ev-
eryday and calls it a day.

The next paragraph is
even worse. You call
Lindsay Erickson, Jessica

 

Buckingham, and Kelly
Zwart 4 sophomores.

The best part is you are
not even consistently
wrong. Three paragraphs
later you note that fresh-
man Lindsay Erickson
claimed a first place finish
at ODACs! However, your
fourth paragraph is fine.

Good job, you reported
successfully that both
teams went to
Harrisonburg and won the
ODAC title.- You even
note in other paragraphs
thatour coaches received
ODAC coach of the year
awards and that

Nathan Johnson won
several awards. I applaud
you! Soon though ,you lose
either focus or interest
again, fabricating that
ODAC Conference cham-
pions automatically get a
berth to the regional meet.

A minor mistake, one
that could have been
avoided by actually asking
any«cross country team
member, but the fact is,
anybody who wants to can
go to the regional meet.

Roanoke, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, and EMU
were all at Regionals.
Well, other'than that,
you just had a few awk-
ward phrases here and
there that further show you
neither know nor care
about, but most likely both,
the sport of cross country.
I look forward to reading
future sport articles that
you actually take interest

' in, and comparing them to

the complete travesty of
an article you put out.

I’ll end by quoting Billy
Madison: At no point in
your rambling, incoherent
response were you even
close to anything that
could be considered a ra-
tional thought. Everyone in
this room is now dumber
for having listened to it. I
award you no points, and
may God have mercy on
your soul.

Your faithful Ring,Tun Phi
reader,

Alex Mahoney

East Asian Languages
notes difference from
East Asian Studies

The Ring—'IlJ1n Phi November
15 edition carried an article entitled
“Intemational Education Week;
Groupstostness intemationaledu—
cation,” by Chris Lauderman. In
thepenultimate paragraphthereis
a listing of the groups associated
with the two-week event, and
among themislisted“theDepait-
ment of East Asian Studies.”

This is incorrect. There is no
Department of East Asian Stud-
ies. We are the Department of
EastAsian Languages and Litera-
tures (EALL), and the cospon-
sors of this program. East Asian
Studiesisaprogram, notadepart-
ment, and they did not co-sponsor
the event There is frequent con-
fusion on campus between our
Department and the EAS Pro-
gram, and we would appreciate
your assistance in helping the
EALLDepa1tmenttobecomectly
recognized
-EALL Dept.

X

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

Male

No
67%

Yes
33%

 

8N5  

Phi Quick Poll ,

 

  “Do you think that sexual assault is a serious problem on this campus ? ”
105 students polled, 54 male, 51 female. Poll has 97% conﬁdence in a +/— 5% margin of error

Yes
84%

Female

No
16%

College students like to drink even though it’s
unlawful for about half of us to do it. Because no
amount of complaining, ranting or raving is going to
reverse the University’s obligation to operate within
the bounds of Virginia law, we should focus our atten-
tion elsewhere.

Any reasonable person also knows that college
students are going to seek a buzz no matter how diffi-
cult it is to come by. If the University does not allow
underage students to drink on campus, we’ll ﬂock off.
The responsibility to party safely
that we once shared with the Uni-
versity is now entirely our own.

Instead of demanding that the
University has to take care of us, why
not do it ourselves? Why not show that we are re-
sponsible adults?

We all know that partying off-campus certainly
has the potential to create dangerous situations. Does
it have to, though? Instead, off-campus parties could
provide the opportunity for us to show how respon-
sible we are. We can create a safety net of our own.
We don’t need the University looking over our shoul-
ders.

Drinking away from the University does not nec-
essarily have to be inherently more dangerous than
imbibing in a fraternity house.

The responsibility for ensuring a safe—drinking en-
vironment has now been placed squarely on our shoul-
ders. ,

Instead of forcing Security to monitor us, it’s time
for us to begin taking on that role for each other. In-
stead of fighting it, let’s rise to the occasion. Let’s
show the University community what we’re made of.

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

!EB BROOKS ‘O5 pus party that you would for an on-

Students must take responsibility
for current underage drinking problems

There are a number of practical things that can be
done to ensure safe off-campus parties. If you see a
classmate in need of help, get it.

If someone needs a ride and you are sober, offer it.
Plan for yourself and don’t drink more than you can
handle.

Stay with friends and watch out for each other.

If you are throwing a party, make sure you have
plenty of water and food for your guests who might
need it.

Make sure you have sober drivers
available to people who may need a ride.
Follow the same rules for an off-cam-

campus one.

Because we live in a community of
trust, we ought to take advantage of that fact. Let’s do
it by showing trust in one another.

On a related note, as student coordinator of the
Traveller Program, I can provide you with contact infor-
mation for the company that operates the Traveller Ex-
press buses.

They will be happy to work with you to offer trans-
portation to your guests above and beyond Traveller’s
capabilities. Just shoot me an email (brool_<_s_j @wlu.edu)
before your next off-campus event and I’H send you a
phone number. You don’t even have to invite me!

In short, we are intelligent, capable young adults.
We ought to be willing to take on this responsibility.
Now is the time for us to begin watching out for each
other and to ensure that when we drink, we do it in a
responsible, adult way. When we graduate into the
dreaded Real World, 'we’ll have to do all of this on our
own. Why not show them that we can handle it now?

In American politics there are certain topics that
often polarize people, even those who may share simi-
lar political ideology. One of these topics is abor-
tion. I identify myself as “Pro-Choice” and I hope
that after reading this, my reasoning behind believ-
ing that way will be clear.

In talking about abortion with others I
have often found that they believe Pro-
Choice to mean Pro-Abortion. I person-
ally disagree with the word Pro-Abortion
because of what the name implies. It seems
to suggest being “for” abortion in the sense that I go
around trying to convince women to have abortions.
This is certainly not the case.

In my opinion abortions should only be performed
under three circumstances:
the health of the mother is at
risk, the child would be born
disfigured or with any un-
natural deformity, or the preg-
nancy was a result of rape or
incest. With those views on
abortion I can not call myself
“Pro-Life” because I do not
believe in protesting in front
of abortion clinics and threatening those who have
abortions with eternal damnation.

Of course not all people who identify as being
Pro-Life engage in those practices it seems to be com-
moh in Pro-Life lobbyists. And while I personally
know women that have had abortions that did not fit
into any of the previously mentioned circumstances,
I still believe that a woman has the right to determine
whether she carries her child to full term or not as it is

MARCAS BANKS ‘07

...by making it illegal women
who see abortion as the only
option will resort to
unhealthy, harmful, and
potentially fatal methods

Term “pro—choice” clarified,
education about sex encouraged

her body.

I am also very strongly opposed to making
abortion illegal. While I think that all abortions
should take place within the first trimester, making
all abortions illegal is not practical. Just because
something is made illegal
does not mean that people will
not indulge in that activity.
This also applies to abortion,
by making it illegal women
who see abortion as the only
option will resort to unhealthy, harmful, and po-
tentially fatal methods.

Essentially by making abortion illegal a black
market for abortion will be created. And with the

resent verdict of Scott Peterson, who was
found guilty of second degree murder for
his unborn son, I can foresee a possibility
of Roe vs. Wade being overturned because
people view the crime Peterson committed
as being so heinous.
If people identify themselves as
V Pro-Life and want to help reduce the num-
ber of abortions the best way is to empha-
size abstinence as well as the use of con-
traceptives and prophylactics among teens.

By reinforcing, these methods both at home and
at school, which is where teens spend most of their
day, will help increase the amount of awareness
they have in regards to sexual activity and its pos-
sible results and will help decrease the number of
abortions performed each year. And although I
would prefer that women not have abortions, some
of them will, and it is a choice for them to make.

REFLECTIONS

   

  

Good Luck with exams!

Have a safe and happy holiday season and a very
Happy New Year.

The Ring-tium Phi’s next edition will come out
January 10, 2005.

UniVersity’s new
alcohol enforcement

 

makes assault likely

FOREBODING. Country places like this might cause the University’s ladies to party in fear.

As a woman, I object to the en-
forcement of the alcohol policy.
Sexual assault is the most egregious
problem on our
campus, and that
crisis is being dis-
regarded in the
crackdown on
drinking. And no, enforcing the al-
cohol policy will not alleviate the
sexual assault problem on this cam-
pus. If anything, women I talk to
believe that the enforcement will cre-
ate a more dangerous atmosphere for
women. Enforcing the alcohol policy
changes the face of the W&L party
scene for the worst.

We have already seen the effects
of enforcement: drinking was pushed
off campus over the weekend, people
pre-partied hard before going out
and snuck alcohol into parties.
People have shared many criticisms
of the alcohol policy enforcement,
ranging from the mundane to the
grim.

Some complained that the cock-
tail parties held in off-campus houses

just aren’t as genteel as one would
expect a Washington and Lee func-
tion to be. When I entered this
school as a freshman, the mission of
Washington and Lee seemed to be
creating ladies and gentlemen ca-

_ pable of thinking, working and social-

izing in the real world. My parents
remember a speech in Lee Chapel in
which administrators emphasized re-
sponsible drinking. That attitude is no
more.

Others complained that they got
drunker than they meant to, because
they shot liquor in secret rather than
drinking moderately in public. Still other
women have mentioned that they fear
a rise in the use of date-rape drugs.
This is a sound fear. In the past, frater-
nity presidents have held the liability
for what occurs in the house and thus,
did their best to ensure safety. No one
will hold such liability at a country
party. ’

Additionally, instead of the cans

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

ERIN IULIUS ‘06

 

handed across the bar in a frat base-
ment, people predict the rise of kegs
and grain in the country. This means
an increase in the use of
open containers, which
my mother has been cau-
tioning me against since
high school. Who knows
when something could be slipped into
a frat cup full of beer? Kegs and grain
are also dangerous because one does
not necessarily know what goes into
them. Drugs could be dropped in, or
there could be confusion over the
strength of the alcohol—is it vodka? Is it
everclear? The difference is huge.
Off-campus debauchery is not re-
sponsible, but it is the logical result of
the new enforcement. I do not like coun-
try parties; in my time at Washington
and Lee, I have been to about three.
Fraternity houses have always felt like
a much safer environment to me. Maybe
it’s the security guards one occasion-
ally sees in any frat basement. Maybe
it’s the massive number of people in a
given party; safety in numbers. Maybe
it’s just the comfort of knowing that I
can walk myself home at any given mo-
ment. Would a country party have any
of these advantages? No.
For the past two—and—a-half years, I
have always had choices about where
I wanted to socialize on the weekends
and frat basements have always won
out over private parties in country
homes. Enforcing the alcohol policy
changes the face of the W&L party
scene for the worst, and frankly, it
scares me.

I’m envisioning young women
trapped in country homes. Off-cam-
pus homes are a more intimate envi-
ronment, so it is much more likely that
a man will feel entitled, and a woman
will feel obligated. Traveller only runs
until two, it’s not unrealistic to believe
that people will be unable to get rides
home. Most fraternity men are up-
standing people, but sexual assault
occurs on this campus now and coun-
try parties provide even more oppor-
tunity for assault. ‘

  

    
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
  

p ato murlegr of t/atamzdaxom

  

    
 

PAGE 6

 . MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004 "

Wednesday '

    
    
   
  
  
    
 

Sunday   4*

    
    

       

   
 
  
  
  
  
  
        

 
    
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
   

    
   
       
      

   

  
  

    
   

       

  

          

   

 

 

Men’s Basketball vs. Women’s Basketball vs.
Guilford —— 7:00 VWC — 2:00 ’
Men’s Basketball vs.
Piedmont -- 8:00

‘I

r

I

 9 .  v  ._’T.‘t:'of the-i.thté (la Bra, 1 ; ,
&L met}; sper_t;h1“g- a iimitcd ' Massiaali hrvitationaloa Saturday
W 3 finished‘ second of rear
“r
O Is '\‘  
 rr~~lit
\......o""‘”"A"~_-.-~*“"~e .. .. .. . . I  ﬂ ’
AA Q  Horw Du I Tcmpt Thee?  ',\‘‘'= ‘I9 »
f  is. r:'- ..;r be Elf“,  ‘ ' '
      
ms «nu mow     °'°';,“',,:“, ‘;'f,1i:';‘,..5“°P *
anda lwiaélotlldtlvef - ,£::r¢~lr_v  Ribbtias Wmtren ., min“ I’
' . _ ads:-sf mums ‘  3
. (:heerseaer tame ..-~- Zihurwfs §; RIPNMVA 24472
Fgﬁna ' j * §nxn9ric}*Inisi:~1£(f':1sarr:vnnx * .: 540.343.522o.1.377.N1T.yARN up
Hanky Panky _  Knitting cottage nestled alongthc creek ’
Cosabeua    which carries a fabulous selection of basic
. Le M‘:/Stet’?  f . -- h . ,.  and novelty yams, kits, needles and
Ananne at C  23$‘ accessories. Customer service from stanto
Honeydew ‘ _ ' ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and _
Internet accessibility made easy.
* CaIforworltsl1op&dassinfonnaﬂon.
21 W. Nelson St. .
463*?”  *
M0" ’ F“ “P5730 A‘ W farm that ofers "U-PICK” opporrurrmer for fresh
Sat  .    Mean-1 fniitwhen in season.
Conam BLACKFORD / RING-TUMPHI   _mes_ sat mtoolszw wedumﬂ 8:“) V
JUMP THAT HURDLE. Indoor track, a not so well known sport at \W&.L, has started. Go support the indoor track “semper ubi sub ubi” 3 Sun $3‘ 00$ Saint 95 ’ I
team as they jump hurdles and perform other feats indoors. . . - .  
The next Phi will come out January #1 Sp rmg Break V3-C3-Hons! Happy 20th .,
10’ 2005 Be ca]-efu[ Cancun, Jamaica, Aca;1>glc/:oéBathIar_nas,lFlorida 8r Costa Bnthday
- ica. °o es rtces.
C°m'"9 Emily Edwards
Spring Break 2005 back on Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals! _ ,
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operatorto 1 Lo e
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now January 2' Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted! CAL Egl ’ CIA
hiring on—campus reps. Call for group discounts. . ’ ’ ’
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or 1 800 234 7007 3779 SM”: PMR
www.ststrave|.com. ~ endlesssummertours.com "
,    3;   4
‘  = l  iéé an    r . A
:   c 4 Scans Psrrﬁrlcr purehaseexperlenee pg Mpg rtrr  1’mwCﬂ9WR&mT°Y C-W3
V ,   u ztzearelleltargglertlahassle. p   Hwyr-. ; om: ﬁummwmpmmwu
V  .*:‘-saris stasis set: eitriisé. '?::aa.:- as eczeséz-:;;22  nail. Sémsiar Séraigéﬁarraarzé i'°r’?3¥‘lE.:;3?‘i§§f°§§. . -  ' W '~ 4-    ’ Orjain mﬁrwefwrh’-L 3’0UC"N5“73"ﬁ"" "
, I ~Friz§ay Nigfit%fnodBuffetv4i83CtabALegs5?l§-18PM
 _ .. Friié  3% ‘ '' Saturday Night $99“ 3  5W~’*3P”
  V p _ t §g’3r;g 35; g§§gz;g; ~Smday Baked Chsdcan & 383 Ribﬁ 31  - ,.
 ‘ , $ . - -_ —-sreexrae:eer7neysaweesrsasa--:1srn
; g. - 2 4  ~Dwyl~l0tcountry%*1_»'£ﬁa!a~1nW»!
‘ M ’ ..  . . s .; ~DailySouP. 3aiad.&Ft1&Bar11ﬁeﬂ~1ﬂP_M
Heme Cooked Mada &' Soutlmm Hospitality!
A 0rdcrB:c:d:fmt24HmusaDay,Scvcn¢laysaweck!
' : Starslarq   mm at _
i-éueatt rims; Cit states with six. speakers, isetuding rat: egg .5  gm 195,135 mam uxgwy, L2:x§xQ':'o{§',v,q.
' trreeters and Saar Saand_?raessir2s§%4F'3-{agents anti Xi;-1 540.453.3473 . ' .
. psézteirie 'sfr.ea:.1';=' .9 Air fX}¥§{.‘i§§i€3¥%>%?’ t Eliinizs at live: rrhssl carer V
‘ aéssigas 3 rnzr-as brakes 5 Peers: txrieéasrs, seer inns, and . am 5”‘ 5*‘ 9"” °°“°“‘°" °’
' estséée tiiirmrs ;‘ 5-year, éﬁtiiiti-rsiés Feesrrraizrwssranty‘ W” rm‘ 0"‘ “,3” 1”“
' »  1- .- . : ~ 2  V 1. at .   .. - *4 - *  ' Ygv  E ‘  ’ ' Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity PartY
- innate ysur nearest Satan liealer at Scinn.:em or call 1‘8‘éé”~?B”:sc|N3 C,,,,Se,
  .    . . _. .. . . .. ., ,_ _  V. X   5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
' Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica “
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave| .com ,
1-800-678-6386

 

ii;-'.n:.ul‘*;r

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

 

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Washington and Lee held
an eight—point second half lead
but could not hold on, as the
Generals dropped a 63-58 deci-
sion at Randolph-Macon in
ODAC men’s basketball action
on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals (0-7, 0-2) led
by as many as 10 points (24-14)
in the first half and claimed a 36-
32 halftime edge. The lead
pushed back to eight points at
43-35 with 16:46 remaining, but
the Yellow Jackets chipped away
until claiming the lead for good
with at 55-53 with 7:33 remaining
in the game.

W&L shot just 8-for-26
(.308) from the ﬂoor in the sec-
ond half, while R-MC shot 12-
of-23 (.522) in the second stanza.

W&L was paced by senior

Team loses grasp of
victory in second half ,

PORTS

guard Mike Stuart
(Warrenton,Va./Fauquier) ‘ A
and sophomore guard _
Chris Halkitis (New Port
Richey, Fla./Ridgewood),
who scored 16 points
each.

Freshman forward
Greg Bienemarm (Chatharn,
N.J./Chatham») notched 10
points, and freshman forward
Colton Braud (Houston, Texas/
James Taylor) added seven
points, ﬁve rebounds and five
assists. I

Randolph-Macon (2-2, 2-
0) was led by junior forward
Justin Wansley’s 24-point,
15—rebound effort. Sopho-
more forward Philip Hawley
added 12 points.

Washington and Lee re-
turns to action on Sunday as it
travels to Virginia Wesleyan for
a 2:00 pm contest.

PAGE 7

    
    
 

Emily Hulen / Ring-Tum P/12'

University Dining Services

Hours of Operation

‘ Extended hours for exam week only!
*7 :30am to 1:00am Friday 10”‘, Sunday 12”‘-Wednesday

*8:00am to midnight- Saturday 11”‘
*7 :30am to midnight- Thursday 16”‘
*7:30am to 4:00pm-. Friday 17”‘ .
*7:30am to 2:00pm- Monday 20”‘-Wednesday 22"”
*closed Thursday 23” until Sunday Jan. 2"” at

*7:15am to 7:00pm- Monday 13”‘-Friday 17”‘
*closed after dinner Friday 17”‘ until Sunday Jan. 2"” at

LAW SCHOOL BRIEF STOP
*7:45am to 5:30pm- Monday 13”‘-Wednesday 15”‘
*closed Thursday 16”‘ until Monday Jan. 3”‘ at 7:45am

****MIDNlGHT BREAKFAST‘. 10:30pm-12:30am****
featuring Breakfast at Tillany’s
at the Commons Marketplace

December 2004

CAFE ‘77

15”‘

5:00pm

MARKETPLACE

5:00pm

Monday December 13”‘

’ down...thoroughly

A game to remember

Of all the recent sports events, nothing tops the brawl

BY RYAN GRl'I"I‘ER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

Well, Thanksgiving break
certainly had quite a bit to keep
us sports fans interested, not the
least of which was the ﬁght be-
tween the Pacers and Detroit
fans. I had come home from a
night out to be greeted by the
sight of stupid fans getting
punched in the face. ....over and
over again. I had to watch 6 times
before I was able to go to bed.

I don’t know about anyone
else, but I’ve always been curi-
ous to see these guys fight, I
mean they’re like 66” and com-
pletely jacked. . . ..it was a dream
come true to see them in combat.

Though on that note I must
say I was rather disappointed in
their ﬁghting abilities. Jackson
landed a nice shot on that ran-
dom fan, I’ll give him that, but
Jermaine O’Neal was slipped and
fell as he punched some fan on
the court. He looked so lanky
and goofy slipping and falling
like that.

Then Artest was not able to
live up to his words and a mouth
like that you know he’s been in
plenty of ﬁghtsin the past. I liked
when he palms the first guys face
and slams in down, but after that
it was all downhill. . ..nothing but
pushing and grabbing.

Then when that chubby little
bastard comes up to him on court
he misses twice! What the
crap?!?! The guy didn’t even go
disap-
pointed.

Also, in the stands, some
little point guard (I couldn’t catch
who it was) gets beaten down so

quickly that I had to include the
previous parenthetical. Seriously,
some enormous black guy just
beats the crap out of him with no
trouble at all, and the player had
to be at least 6’2” and ripped.
While we’re on this topic, let

“I don’t know about
anyone else, but l’ve
always been curious to
see these guys ﬁght, I
mean they’re like 66”
and completely
jacked. . ...itwas a
dream come true to see

them in combat.”
RYAN GRI'I’I'ER

me just say that I agreed with the
commentators from the night it
happened, not after when they
were pressured into being soft-
ies.

Did anyone notice that the
night of the incident all the com-
mentators agreed that if a player
is physically attacked by fans he
has the right to enter the stands,
and that any violence on court
was completely deserved? I
quote one of them who said,
“Anything they did on court is a
freebie. Fans, if you went on the

court you got what you de-

served.”

Merry Christmas from the PM

Then the next few days after
they quickly switched to view-
ing all the players involved as
criminals. Watch that one fan
open a fresh Mountain Dew and
pour it directly onto Jermaine
O’Neal’s face and tell me who
the criminals were in this situa-
tion.

So enough about basketball,
let’s move on to baseball. For all
of you who doubted whether or
not Bonds used/uses steroids,
let me give you an update here, a
checklist of sorts. 1) Balco Indus-
tries has now been confirmed as
providing steroids 2) Sheffield
has come forward and admitted
that Bonds gave him steroids,
and 3) Giambi has admitted to ste-
roid use, and that he got the ste-
roids from Bonds’ weight trainer.
Coincidence? Please.

Finally, the sport that usu-
ally gets the most attention on
Thanksgiving probably de-
served the least. What was the
deal with the football match ups
this year? The first game was kind
of entertaining as we could watch
Peyton tear the Lions up, but he
was out early in the third quarter,
and the rest of the game was
worthless.

Then the next game, Bears
vs. Boys, by far the worst offen-
sive game I’ve ever watched. N o
offense equals no interest, take
a lesson from baseball on that
one.

Yet, despite footballs’ holi-
day disappointments, nothing
could bring us down from the in-
credible ﬁght, which was joined
by more cool ﬁghts in college and
pro football, as weH as plenty of
shows based on ﬁghts... which
are always good.

BlueRidge
PHYSICAL THERAPY

Care with you in mind

463-5388
728 North Lee Hwy
Lexington, VA

{College Square shopping center)

John 3:15
Specializing in:
Orthopedics

Sports Medicine
Spinal Mobilization

Postv-OP rehabilitation

Please call or stop by to speak with one 0fOZ4?* sraﬁ”
members with any questions you may have concerning your
rreamzenz‘, or your insurance.

0111‘

check

Like No O01-her‘
Shop
You've Seen!

éifrs & Snac/cs‘
_f'ar_- All Occas/on.s_'_
001' Tea Room

(Serving Premium Teas, Light Fare 6: Sweets)

Body Fr-osfirgl Student Care Package:

5171935 zuinfsl
6/taco/are Bandaidsl
Kick/ts: Popcorn!

1VIonday—Saturday 10 a.rn. - 5:30 p-In-
Sunday Noon — 4:00 pLm.

13 South Maj}; sn-eét"
464-4433

www-ﬁ1nfoodsforyou-coxn _

‘Access

.$ornerhirg for Everyone
Above/1)’ Candies
6/‘ff Baskets

Fun Foods

& _
or-es

I

 

  

PAGE 8

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

"§"2iEiiiN'(rl3;!lll)l-ii
W F
l .i.FE

Lexington offers unique holiday gifts

BY LEAH KERSHAW
STAFF WRITER

Looking for the perfect Christmas gift? Lexington shops
offer unique presents with a personal touch.

For a small college town, Lexington shops offer gifts to
fit any student’s budget.

Pumpkin Seeds, a boutique featuring women’s clothing,
accessories, upscale toiletries, and hostess gifts, has much
to offer the holiday shopper. Whimsical Christmas ornaments,
festive jewelry, and stocking stuffers are sure to please the
women in anyone’s life.

Molly Gilbride, an upscale women’s shoe store, has a
great selection of well-known brands including Lulu Guiness
and Cynthia Rowley. Molly Gilbride also sells Tarina Taratino
jewelry, which was recently featured in In Style magazine.

Siobhan Gilbride, the owner of Molly Gilbride and Pump-
kin Seeds, said that this funky jewelry, made of Lucite, is a
popular item this year.

If you are in search of the perfect hostess gift or stock-
ing stuffers, Fun Food’s and Accessories is the place to go.
Victoria Pannell, the owner of Fun Food’s and Accessories,
has appointed her store the “stocking stuffer capital of Lex-
ington.” Fun Food’s and

Accessories features a variety of fun gifts for the holi-
day season including a chocolate toilet seat and ant candy.
Fun Food’s and Accessories is “truly a place to go that you
can find something for everyone, animals included” says
Pannell.

Pappagallo, anthor women’s clothing store in town, has
seen over 27 Christmas seasons in Lexington. If you are look-
ing for help picking out the perfect gift, Susie Crawford, the
owner of Pappagallo, is more than willing
to help.

Crawford has been in the women’s
clothing business since August of 1977
when she opened Pappagallo.

Vera Bradley products, affordable
jewelry and tons of Free People clothing
are among some of the gift ideas that can
be found at Pappagallo. Crawford also offers gift certificates
and free gift wrapping.

Virginia Born and Bred features Virginia products. Over
80% of the items sold in Virginia Born and Bred are produced
by Virginia manufacturers. This shop offers fine gift items
and specialty gift baskets which can be shipped anywhere.

Virginia Born and Bred sells silver plated utensils, funky
glass colored beads wrapped in wire, which are handmade in
Glen Allen, VA. Hilary DeHaan ’05 bought some of the uten-

For a small college town,
Lexington shops offer gifts to
fit any student’s budget.

0 LrrrLE TOWN OF LEXINGTON.

Still looking for Christmas gifts for
friends and fa.mily.? Downtown Lexington offers many options for the '
discerning shopper in all of us.

sils for her mom for Christmas. Her mother “likes them be-
cause they’re classy with a funky edge” said DeHaan.

Artists in Cahoots, the local artists co—op, has tons
of unique gift ideas including jewelry and beautiful
Christmas ornaments. Sylvan Spirit, one of the jewelry
lines offered in the co—op, is sold in overone hundred shops
around the world.

Maureen Worth, one the two jewelry

designers for the line, said Sylvan Spirit is
making special holidayjewelry for the sea-
son. The holiday line will include Holly and
Poinsettiajewelry made of clay, silver and
bronze. Worth is willing to custom design
necklaces and earrings to fit any budget.
Custom jewelry is completed in three to five days.

Michael Viviano ’07 ordered a custom made necklace for
his mother. He was pleased with the necklace and said that it
turned out beautifully. “Since I’m from a big city, I don’t tend
to see as much localized type stuff like Sylvan Spirit, so it
was a nice change from what I’d normally buy as a gift,” said
Viviano.

Lexington boutiques offer W&L students great gift ideas
with a local twist.

W&L. Bookstore Presents...
\ Student Book of the Week

A , lly tenure of the loolstolo um! the n'ng-‘nun Ini
\

I  no ether or:
....‘.‘;,.~ A - A: 5 i  ill:
FOB Till‘: l'lClLIDﬁElS

This hilarious holiday book is full of.TeffFoxworthy's tradeinark humor. Includes the
Redneck Twelve Days of Christmas, “The Night After Christmas," and dozens of holiday
themed “You Might Be A Redneck If. .  jokes, including:

You mightbe a Redneck if. ..

— The plastic deer in your ya'd at Christmas double as practice tagets
Santa Claus refuses to let your lcids sitin his lap.
Even your snowman has abeer gut
Chrisunas dinner was too slow crossing the road on Christmas Eve.

Hilariously illustrated, this book contains a bonus CD of Jeff Foxworthy’ s Redneck 12
Days of Christmas. Makes the perfect gift for your favorite redneck in end or relative

&gularpn'¢:e: $14.99
Book afthe Week Price: $12. 50

Alternative Christ-
mas carols you
ought to learn

BY EMILY EDWARDS
AR'IS&LlFE EDITOR

Many an odd thing has occurred on our cam-
pus over the past couple of weeks. Something
tells me our beloved Dubyuhnell is changing... and

in some cases, not for the better.

scholastic excellence in his chosen ﬁeld of endeavor.

excellence throughout your life.

since 1945.

Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.

www.olphcrphicrlpho.nei

Why Alpha at WLU?
. . . ,

The objective of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. is to stimulate the ambition of its members; to prepare them for the greatest ,
usefulness in the causes of humanity, freedom and dignity of the individual; to encourage the highest and noblest form of manhood;
and to aid down-trodden humanity in its efforts to achieve higher social, economic and intellectual status.

 

Alpha Phi Alpha, the ﬁrst intercollegiate Greek-letter fraternity established for African-Americans, was founded at Cornell University in
Ithaca, New York by seven college men who recognized the need for a strong of Brotherhood between African descendents in this

country. The visionary founders, known as the “Jewels” of the Fraternity, are: Henry Arthur Callis, Charles Henry Chapman, Eugene
Kinckle Jones, George Biddle Kelley, Nathaniel Allison Murray, Robert Harold Ogle and Vertner Woodson Tandy.

Alpha Phi Alpha was founded with one thing in mind: scholarship. An Alpha man is ﬁrst a college man, and his greatest boast is

The Fraternity has grown from seven men in 1906 to over 175,000 men today. Times have changed and Alpha Phi Alpha has kept
abreast with the times, but one thing that Alpha Phi Alpha has never relinquishedis scholarship. Proven scholastic attainment has
always been a requirement of initiation in the fraternity. As an Alpha man,

Alpha Phi Alpha is represented on the campus of leading universities and colleges throughout the United States, Africa, Europe, the
West Indies and Asia (Korea & Japan). There are more than three hundred ﬁfty college chapters to be found on the same number
of university campuses that have been accredited by a regional or national accrediting agency. The fraternity has been interracial

Proof of Enrollment Transcript — minimum GPA of 2.5 Essay Biographical Sketch/Resume
Proof of Voter Registration Three letters of Recommendation Application and Membership Fee

Al WL ?

Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. representation on the Washington and Lee University campus would provide opportunities for
African-American students and others to seek membership in one of the historically Black Greek letter organization. Our
primary focus is community service and to provide a link to the WLU campus and the Lexington community of issues and
concerns the African-American community and other people of color.
The most remarkable leadership in the African-American community in the 215‘ century has without question come from the ,
ranks of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. The fraternity has supplied voice and vision to the struggle of the African-Americans and
people of color around the world. This is your ﬁrst step toward joining the ranks of hundreds of thousands of great men whose

interest lay outside themselves.  
[H [I .l . '99] “MM” HI I" I" 7 .

To learn more about becoming a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, lnc., please feel free to contact. Mr. Sean L.
Bates (Advisor) at Ba  or at 804 519-5176.

you will be required to uphold this transition of scholastic

So this is the last Phi before Christmas break.
And in the Christmas spirit, I have “written” a few
carols for all on campus to appreciate.

I offer my sincerest apologies to the original
writers of these timeless, traditional melodies.

Go Tell it on House Mountain
tune.‘ Go Tell it on the Mountain

While Fratlords kept their watching,
O’er quiet basements by night,
Behold throughout Red Square,
There shone an evil light.

Chorus:

Go tell it on House Mountain,
Over the hills and everywhere,
Go tell it on House Mountain
That Burish comes to rule.

The Fratlords feared and trembled
as wristbands ‘arrived in tow.
Twenty—one and over,
or drinking’s a big “no-no!”

(chorus)

Down on the Colonnade,
this ruling came to be.
Trustees sent out the letters,
hands tied by ABC.

(chorus)

What Grade is This?
time: What Child is This ?

What grade is this that faces me,
in classes I am failing?
While Harvard, Dartmouth and Princeton
inflate their grades for rankings.

This! This is infamy!

I study hard but get a B.

Brown! Yale! They work much less,
and get an A with no stress.

Good Freshmen Men Rejoice
tune: Good Christian Men Rejoice

Good freshmen men rejoice,
with heart and soul and voice.
Give ye heed to what I say,
RUSH! RUSH!
Pledgeship will come your way:
To Upperclassmen you will bow,
So enjoy your life right now.
You will hate your life!
You will hate your life!

Good Freshmen men rejoice
With heart and soul and voice.
Now your life is endless bliss,
RUSH! RUSH!

You came for Dubyuhnell for this.
Frats will open up their doors,
And you’ll be blessed for evermore.

Eight weeks you must endure!
' Eight weeks you must endure!

«-  1* ‘

 

’IiiE (3~’ll,ii.\<i PHI

RT S

BY ELYSE MOODY
STAFF WRITER

“War of the Worlds” stirs up excitementin Lexington

People all over the country have been reading, about the
shooting of the Steven Spielberg film “War of the Worlds”
here in Rockbridge County. Filming begins December 13 and
14 for military scenes and will continue through
December 16 with scenes of civilians.

Actor Tim Robbins is rumored to be in
town for the shoot; some say he was spotted
at Dairy, Queen on Friday. When co-star Tom
Cruise and Spielberg were in Lex scouting out
locations, they also dropped by DQ. What is
it about that place? I don’t know, but if you
are looking to get an autograph, it seems like
the place to be. A

I decided to get a closer look at the pro-
cess and attended the open casting call at
Rockbridge County High School. Apparently,
they are looking for about 500 extras: ll chil-
dren, a bunch of women and military types, and a handful of
men.

The casting call was held from 8 AM until 4 PM on Satur-

day, but I decided to get there a little early to take advantage

of every possible opportunity to meet someone exciting or to
be “discovered”—as it were. Here’s a rundown of exactly what
happens at these crazy events, at least in my experience:

4:00 AM——Shower and getting read-y for my close up.
That’s right, most people were probably getting HOME
around now. You have to sacrifice for stardom, my
friends.

4:30 AM—Leave Woods Creek Apartments for the parking
garage, approximately 26 degrees Fahrenheit.

4:35 AM——Return to Woods Creek, as I forgot my resume
and non—returnable, close-up photograph. Back to the car,
and we’re off. Yes, and it’s still freezing.

4:45 AM——Cruise through the Rockbridge County High
School Gym, where the casting call is taking place. Yes, some
people did in fact camp out in order to be the first
ones in the door. I see their Crazy Creeks—they definitely
camped out at the high school.

A group of about 30 people shivers in the cold, wearing
about a dozen layers, including blankets and sleeping bags.
Other people make their spouses wait in line while they sit in
their cars. That’s devotion to science fiction.

5:00 AM——Wafﬂe House. A fantastic place to be at 5 in the
morning. Lots of coffee, and hash browns scattered all the
way. Just in case this event lasts all day, it seemslike a good

Special talents? Excellent at
death scenes, can cry on
demand successfully, speak
French, play guitar, and am_

naturally, effortlessly an

clumsy—a rnust—have
quality of victims in Sci-Fi
movies. Feel like a shoe-in.

EMILYEDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
EMAIL EDwARDstM@ww.EDU

LIFE  

idea to have an enormous breakfast. If you’ve never been
there this early, it’s an interesting experience——I highly rec-
ommend it. _

5:45 AM—Back to the Gym. The crowd has grown to
about 100 people, and Sonia Siu and I fearlessly join the line.
It’s still dark and about 28 degrees at this point, and we are
both wearing heels just in case there is a need to look profes-
sional for this. We soon realize that this was a mistake,
as our toes gradually lose fe e l i n g .
Next time, I will be sporting Siberian bobsled-
ding gear and toting a portable space
heater. It would be worth the absurdity—it
is ridiculously cold.

6:00 AM—Still freezing. Losing feel-
ing in all extremities by this point, but begin
interesting conversation with the
people around us in line. One man is holding
a spot in line for his 2 sons. Another woman
is a law student at the University 0 f
Richmond who drove up at 3:00 AM (! !) just
to get here in plenty of time.

6:30 AM—Still no sign of potentially
being let into the gym and out of the cold. Beginning
to wonder if this is worth the effort. The crowd has grown to
a couple hundred people at this point.

7:00 AM—And the end is in sight; they promise to open
the doors by 8:00 AM. The crowd is getting a lot bigger
now, maybe closer to a thousand people. Lots of
small children come around 8 with hopes of getting one of the
eleven specific roles for young kids.

7:25 AM—Official—1ooking woman shows up in clothing
inappropriate for the weather. We assume she is important
and begin to hope that we’ll be let inside soon. Just
thirty-five more minutes...

7:45 AM—~A man in trendy clothes and black, square
glasses announces that the process will begin in a
couple of minutes, and a woman starts handing out forms to
ﬁll out. They ask your name, height, weight, and standard
measurements. So ready to go inside by now; I am
wondering if my toes are going to be frostbitten by the
time I get home. Do I still have toes? I don’t know—I can’t
feel them.

8:00 AM—Call my mom, tell her where I am and what’s
going on. She asks if I’ve met Tom Cruise. I say, “Give me
time.” She asks me ifI’m wearing ﬂip ﬂops in an accusatory
tone. I say, “No, thank God.” I think the Reefs have been
retired for the season. Finish filling out form. Special
talents? Hmmm...excellent at death scenes, can cry on
demand successfully, speak French, play guitar, and am
naturally, effortlessly clumsy—a must—have quality of vic-

 

PAGE 9

  
    

casprzasr T;£'C1i<iﬁ_iCQ we  
‘ ateaxﬁi ~u§aiE‘}ii§pu5{armaaea:tretat

‘ . .°:s:a«ca-«gi‘»:9wai¢‘_M'r»o»z.».ax-¢x«.«».s.~»»m».~ -’-«wen»-v‘«<3)*>xw.«s/<<

 

CURTESY OF ART.COM

Ir’s THE END or THE WORLD AS WE KNOW IT. People from Lexington and
surrounding area came to Rockbridge County High School on Saturday
for a chance at Stardom: being an extra in Spielberg’s latest endeavor, yet
another remake of The War of tbe LVor/dr.

tims in Sci-Fi movies. Feel like a shoe—in.

8:20 AM—FINALLY move inside. My toes are tingling
(they WON’T have to be amputated! Phewl), but I am still
excited. I scan the room for people exuding an aura of ce-
lebrity. Disappointingly, I see no one and sense no vibes.
Maybe ifI get picked for a part I can meet Tim Robbins?! Just
maybe.

8:25 AM—Hand in my form at the table in the front of the
gym. No big whoop. Nothing to be excited about yet—just
waiting for that call. That’s all I can do now. Wait.

That, and turn on the heat in my car and drive home while
listening to Mariah Carey Christmas on the radio. And take a
nap.

 

  
  want to become a ticictor.

 

to March 1.

4'1 0-51 6»-7748.

For more iriformation, visit 

 

The Johns Hopkins F’ost«»Bac;caiaureate Premiedicai rogram
prepares college graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the best medical seihrmts by giving them the I
personai attention, the necessary science and math cows 3,
and one-tmane academic advising»  
if you or someone you kriowswams to pureue a career as a

doctor, apply during the application period of September 1

  medirzal SC.ll(i£ii.” I

 

.jhu.edulpostbac or call

“I dam. have the p
, required courses for

    

JOHNS HOPE   

Past-Bar:csat aurea.te
Premedical Prasgsram

 

 

PAGE 10

THE

  

THE RlNG~TUM PHI

AST ORD

FJHILYFDWARIJS
ARIs&liEEEDrioR
EMAii;Ei)\riARusEiu@wiiiri)u

MONDAY, DECEMBER .6, 2004

Potato Man ponders what actually happened to fim Chiistinas gifts

Those who know me know that my phone’s ringer is set to We
Wish You a Merry Christmas, all year long. Annoying? Yes. But to
me Christmas is the best time of year, so, when you are around me,
Christmas is year round. Unfortunately, my family seems to think
that Christmas is a once a year thing and therefore celebrates it as
such. VV1th that time fast approaching, I have had to make my
annual Christmas list, which I feel kind enough to
share with you, in case any of you feel the need to

can’t drive there either. (See how this car thing works. . .I can even
blame being fat on not having a car). Besides, treadmills don’t even
come close to comparing to the efﬁciency of John Basedow’s work-
out. If someone gives me those videos for Christmas, I might ﬁnally

have the body I always dreamed about.
I’ve also noticed over the past few years that I no longer get
“fun” gifts. I used to open presents and get Power
Ranger ﬁgurines. Those were the good old days,

buy me a gift. ' POTATO MAN when everyone comes back to daycare with their new
The first thing I am asking for is a car. Not toys....Actually, now that I think about it, it wasn’t
because I will get a car if I ask for it, but it is more to ’ MARSHALL RULE that fun. That spoiled brat across the street always

make my family feel guilty that I am here without a
car. All year I tell them, “I need a car so bad. It’s
impossible to survive without a car.” I have my

mom feeling so bad that I don’t have a ride that she will now buy me

twice as much stuff as my brother, and justify it by saying, “But he
has to walk everywhere, so he needs more things.”

I also need the Fitness Made Simple featuring John Basedow
instructional videos. Lately, I have been putting on weight faster
than Kirstie Alley. I know that there are treadmills in the gym, but the
gym is just so far away. By the time I walk there I am exhausted and
don’t have the energy to walk back. And since I don’t have a car, I

got better gifts. He came with the Blue Ranger, and
then made fun of me when I showed up with the Pink
Ranger, because the store was all out of the others.
When I got home to complain to my parents, they told me I was being
ungrateful and needed my mouth washed out with soap. I have

never complained about a gift since.
But over the past few years I’ve had to ask for practical gifts.

_ Clothes, alarm clocks, razors. I know they are necessities, but Christ-

mas is supposed to be about fun, not personal hygiene. That is why
this yearl am asking for the Blue Ranger. I don’t know if they still
make them. I don’t know if the show is even still on TV. But I thinkl

have waited long enough, and I ﬁnally want to show that brat across
the street that I’m cool too. "

My favorite gift on Christmas is socks. I know this seems
stupid, and that most people imagine socks as the last thing any-
one would want for Christmas. But, to me, there is nothing I love
more than wearing a brand new pair of socks. Ifl was rich enough,
I would buy a new pair of socks every morning, and throw them in
the garbage at the end of the day.

And lastly, I am asking that Boise State gets the credit that
they deserve for going undefeated and having the longest winning
streak in the country. Twenty-two games in a row. The BCS gives
them no respect, and neither does the rest of the nation. I also wish
that they change the setup of the championship so that the top four
teams get to be in a playoff. The #1 and #4 teams play, the #2 and
#3 teams play, and the winners face off in for the Championship.
It’s time we take the controversy out of sports. If you could some-
how buy the NCAA and change that, that would be a pretty cool
gift, that and letting me hangout with the University of Kentucky
cheerleaders. -

Everybody says Christmas is about giving and not receiving,
and I couldn’t agree more. . .. So GIVE me the things on my list. Now
that’s the Christmas spirit. '

Overly friendly security, drooling ﬁve-year-olds and future opera stars ruin travel

I love to travel. I am never happy staying in
one place for too long. I get restless. Unfortunatly,
today traveling translates to hours of waiting, be-
ing patted down by security guards (who seem to
enjoy their jobs a little too much, if you know what I
mean), and canceled, oveibooked, and delayed ﬂights.

When I was little, I used to love airports. Chi-
cago O’hare was a fun house- a maze of glass and
chrome open to exploration. I was enthralled by the
escalators and the baggage claim. I could have spent
days sitting next to the Plexiglas windows, watch-
ing the planes make shaky takeoffs and smooth
landings. I even used to dream of being an airline
attendant . One day I could be in London, the next
in Barcelona. However, since I can barely walk in a
straight line on solid ground, that dream was quickly
put to rest. (Seriously, I weave around like a drunk-
ard even when my BAC is a solid 0.0.)

This summer, after a variety of mix-ups and
rniscommunications between the pilots, the ﬂight
attendants, the baggage claim workers, and the tick-
eting agents at United Airlines, I lost my faith in
modern travel. Actually, I was half considering hitch-
hiking back to Wisconsin‘ for Thanksgiving break.
But, having seen my share of B-rated horror mov-

_ ies, I decided to give air travel another shot (lest

Michael Myers or Freddy Cougar have come back
to life again). So, I booted up my computer, ran a
google search, and came up with the best priced
ticket I could lay my hands on and began mentally
preparing myself for the trip to come.

November 19 quickly rolled around. After I had
made it to the airport (which was a dramatic, trau-
matic experience in itself), I had a ﬁve hour wait for
my ﬂight. Thus, the trip was already posed to be

long and exhausting. Since i had ﬁnished packing
shortly before dawn, I had not been in the state of
mind to pack a lunch. Thus, if I wanted to eat, I had
to suck it up and patron the airport cafe (cafe is not
the term I would employ, but. ..). Trying to be healthy
(because I knew I’d gain at least ﬁve pounds over
break) , I sidled up to the counter and ordered a
bowl of cereal (half a serving), a granola bar, and a
Nutragrain bar. The bill came to a total of $6.10. I
balked. “$6.10?! For this?!” “The server sweetly
explained that the cereal did indeed come with a
container of  I know that I’m from Vlfisconsin,
where milk runs aplenty, but I’m fairly sure the go-
ing rate for cow juice is not

for me. Let me explain:

Nine times out of ten, I get placed next to a
“talker.” Now, don’t get me wrong, I’m a friendly
girl. I love to meet new people, and I think its fasci-

nating to talk to individuals with whom I'd nor- '

mally never come into contact. But I have my lim-
its. Word of advice, if I just met you a half an hour
ago, please don’t tell me a) what medications you
are taking b) what weird rashes you’ve contracted
in the past or c) the frequency with which you mow
your lawn. No. I am not kidding. I have heard it all.
Frankly, I don’t care if you mow every first and
third Monday of the month. Or what kind of lawn

mower you use. Or the brand

three dollars, even in the South.
Needless to say, I got a muffin
instead (might as well get a head
start on the holiday binge,

THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL
KRisiiNE EARLY

of weed killer. And I’d rather
be kept in the dark about your
rash, even if you assure me it’s
not infectious. I’d rather sit

right?).

So at 12: 30 (rather than 12:10), Iboarded Flight
5841, well-fed but a bit on edge. Needless to say, I
was not all that thrilled to discover that my seat
was at the very back of the plane- the worst spot. I
couldn’t put my seat back. I didn’t have a view. I
was the last to get served. To top it all off my seat
was right next to the bathroom. The bathroom was
“malfunctioning,” a nice technical way to say that
the toilet didn’t ﬂush. It wasn’t a pleasant (smell-
ing) experience. ‘

Now, normally, I wouldn’t complain about ei-
ther the high costs of Cheerios or two and a half
hours of discomfort. I would chalk everything up
to bad luck and capitalism and forget the whole
experience. But this experience wasn’t a ﬂuke. I am
beginning to think that the airport Gods have it in

next to you in peaceful igno-

rance. Actually, I’d rather not sit next to you.

(Would you mind a seat on the wing? I hear it has a
nice view. Bonus mileage points!)

But even worse than the passenger who won’t

shut up‘ about his lawn care system are the obnox-

ious brats that inevitably end up in the row behind

I Inc. And the row in front of me. And the row beside

me. I like children. I really do. I especially like them
when they are nowhere near me. (I subscribe to the
“children should neither be seen nor hear ” school
of thought.)

Children, while irritating in restaurants and
stores, are absolutely intolerable as soon as they
step on an aircraft. The elevation must be good for
their developing lungs. I’ve heard four-year olds
who could blow the best opera singers away with

their high Cs. However, as much as I enjoy the free
entertainment, I’d prefer to listen to a Christina
Aguilera CD. Or maybe not. Scream kids! Scream!
(Oohh. Harsh, Kristine. Harsh.)

Fortunately, on this ﬂight, I was spared from
the “yeller” and the “kicker” — the kid whose feet
“accidentally” make contact with the back of your
chair a few thousand times. But as much as I enjoy
a good massage chair, I just can’t fall asleep when
a drooling ﬁve-year old is pretending that my seat
back is indeed a soccer ball. I can’t decide which is
worse, the “kicker” or the seven year—old who
pushes her seat all the way back (Her feet don’t
even reach the ﬂoor! She does not need extra leg
room!)

But even once the little opera stars and future
masseuses get off the plane, they aren’t much bet-
ter. Six and seven year—olds are highly adept at po-
sitioning themselves directly in front of the bag-
gage claim. Apparently, “mommy’s little boy” thinks
he can lift a fifty pound suitcase. Yeah, right. I can’t
even lift a fifty-pound suitcase. (OK, I can, but it is
a pathetic sight indeed. Nope, the eight pound
weights at the gym just don’t prepare one for these
real life test of strength.)

However, despite all the aimoyances that ac-
company air travel - the delays, the high—priced

packaged food, and other passengers in general - '

it’s still my favorite way to cross the country. I
would much rather suffer in silence next to a motor
mouth and a toilet with a “technical problem” than
spend sixteen hours stuffed in the family van. It
seems that soon enough I’ll get that chance. Christ-
mas is only a few weeks away. Boy, am I looking
forward to the trip home...

 

Ul S

Q I heard Rockbridge High School was having a
sick party this weekend and they aren’t carding.

Q Even though the rivers run dry, the grass still
grows and the snow still falls on Lexington.

Q I want to go back high school.

Q Did anybody else notice that the car in Joe
Nichol’s “Nobody Believe’s In You” music video
sports a trident?

Q Have you ever been so hungry that you ripped
apart the microwave popcorn bag and licked the
butter ﬂavoring off the inside? I have.

Q Red Square - West side.

Q Todd Tate long term goals: end under age drink-
ing, find the last digit of Pi, find Osama, and world
peace. I

Q You have nice teeth. You should be a tooth

‘ model.

Q Mittens are sexy.

Q Attention Old House: anal-retention about beer
pong rules won’t get you in anyone’s pants.

Q Is purchasing stolen property an HV?

Q Phi Delt, thanks for the pizza.

Q Did you know Carl Weathers starred in “Action

, Jackson” with Sharon Stone, and that you can rent

it from Crossroads?

Q Whose world isn’t rocked by Cat Swan?

Q Attention freshmen: An inverted Trident sym-
bolizes “the bird” — courtesy of “clu ” Sigma Nu,
1980.

Q Since when do Trix involve ﬂower-shaped
pieces? "

Q Accident Ahead.

Q To the boy in Davis who pees in his sink...we
can see you.

Q Older women know just how to please a man.
Take note, freshmen.

Q Hey Professors, there’s a new craze going
around campuses everywhere. It’s called GRADE
INFLATION...try it some time.

Q Why use Campus Notices for a quick hit when
you could just use...Quick Hits?

Q Is anyone else excited for pledgeship to start?
It’s going to be awesome with everything off-cam-
pus.

Q Prediction? Pain.
Q That’s a negative, Ghostwriter - ABJ

Q H to tha izzo, John to the Rizzo. Holla!

Q I don’t know any Snus. There’s a reason for
that.

Q Bernie Campbell rocks my socks.

Q A certain senior male is going around comment-
ing on nice breasts. Be sure to show him yours.

Q Is anyone else upset that Scott Dittman is on
the facebook?

Q W&L made front page of the Roanoke Times
on Sunday. For what you might ask? Sexual As-
sault. Whoever said all publicity was good pub-
licity obviously did not see this article.

Q Lying to get a kill in maﬁa...not cool.

,Q If by, “a lot of random hookups” you mean, in

comparison to Eastern Mennonite University, then
yes... there are a lot of random hookups at W&L...
Otherwise, WHAT ARE YOU TALKING
ABOUT?!?!?!

Q Why is Walker Vlfilliams the cutest boy ever?
Q Did you know Carl Weathers was’ in the NFL
before he was Apollo Creed?

Q Erastus Parsons - keeping it real since 1866.

Q Keep Wayne Richey ’02 in your prayers as he
recovers from an Iraqi grenade hit

Q Dave's Produce - Same face, different place.

Q I feel so naked without my cell phone.

More Quick Hits...

a reaction to the new

alcohol policy

Q Forget the honor system; drinking is a far bet-
ter tradition

.Q Minks disapprove of the new alcohol policy.

Q The new alcohol policy is about as cool as lung
cancer.

Q It’s easier to black—out in the country anyway.

Q If we liked the social life at Vanderbilt that much
we would be going there...that’s not what we want
here. Even our freshman class president who rep-
resents our class feels that these policies are go-
ing too far.

Q I don’t know what everyone else is worried

about. In the country they have grain and beirut.

Q I bet Kim J ong-il lets his people drink.
Q Is it too late to transfer for next semester?

Q Notice to the Health Center: There is no more
need for free condoms or birth control due to no
more alcohol at frat parties.

Q If the school is taking alcohol out of the frats,
can we at least get better toilet paper?

‘ Q Now that Todd Tate has put an end to under-

age drinking, he sets his sights on world hunger.

Q I don’t know about everyone else, but if the
administration tells me to stop drinking, Ithink I’ll
do it.

Q Don’t worry frats, I’ll just drink a ﬁfth in my
dorm before I go out at night.

Q Now that there is no alcohol we can all start
playing cranium in the living room.

Q I wish I would have gone to a state school.

Q No alcohol! ! !...well at least we still have drugs.

Q This is not the same school I applied to.
Q So much for sending my kids to W&L.
Q I wish I had gone to Davidson.

Q How is East Lex going to make money?

Q What has this school become? I say the Board
of Trustees gets a backbone, otherwise we all leave.

Q Burish hates fun.

QSend your anonymous Quick Hits to
' phi@w1u.edu.

 

Arch -
€~ 378.755

R552-
v. /08

02-

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

    N G-TUM

   .-..-V0LUMEC“-iiiiii1,N0~i7.
MONDAY,JAl\lUARY 10, 2005

Groups raise money for Victims of south Asian tsunami

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Students manned tables in
the Commons last week to raise
money for tsunami victims in
South Asia. The effort, which will
continue this week, is a collabo-
ration of Club Asia, SAIL, and the
Center for International Educa-
tion.

’ The group hoped to reach
a goal of $5000 over the entire
period of fundraising. By the end
of their first day, they had over
$1700.

“We were really sur-
prised——I was, at least—at the
responses,” said Assaba Linda
Massougbodji, co—chair of
SAIL’s International Develop-
ment and Relief Group.

The money raised will go
to Habitat for Humanity Intema—
tional to help build shelters for
the millions left homeless by the
tsunami. The organization has
ofﬁces in Sri Lanka, Thailand,
Indonesia, India, Bangladesh,
and Malaysia. Habitat plans to
raise around 25,000 temporary
shelters, which they say can be
built for anywhere from $200 to
$500.

“We wanted to make sure
that it was going to an organiza-
tion that would spend most of it
on the victims,” Massougbodji
said. “We want to locate people
and see where is the money go-
ing, and what’s going on.”

The tables will remain in
the Commons through Wednes-
day. The group accepts cash,
check, and charges on university
swipe cards. Other student or-
ganizations have offered to help
work the tables, including the In-
ternational Law Society, Nabors
Service League, Generals’ Chris-
tian Fellowship, and Joyful
Noise.

The worldwide response
to the tsunami has been just as
wholehearted. Over the past two
weeks, donations from all over
the world have allowed supplies

and workers to arrive in the af— ’

fected area. The American Red
Cross alone has amassed nearly
$150 million in donations since
the Dec. 26 catastrophe.

The response, however,‘

goes beyond immediate help; in— I

temational aid organizations are
preparing to work for the area’s
long—terrn recovery. UNICEF, for
example, has called for $144.5 mil-
lion in donations to beneﬁt the

. , ,-
]oN ROGERS / THE RING—TUM P111

HELP IS ON THE WAY. Washington and Lee students are organizing a relief effort to help tsunami victims in Southeast Asia.

“Tsunami Generation,” those
children who have been
wounded, isolated, or trauma-
tized by the event. The Red Cross
armounced a $400 million plan to

 

provide long-term aid that ranges
from food to disease prevention
to preventive measures against
future disaster.

The tsunami devastated

parts of South Asia and eastern
Africa after a 9.0-magnitude
earthquake jolted the ocean ﬂoor
just off the coast of Indonesia.
Nearly 150,000 are ofﬁcially dead,

 

more than 100,000 of them in In-
donesia. The Associated Press
reported Thursday that. United
Nations officials believe the
death toll will continue to rise.

  

 

wt

Rush

01-02

Fraternities:

Phi Gamma Delta
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Chi Psi

Pi Kappa Phi

Beta Theta Pi
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Kappa Sigma
Lambda Chi Alpha
Phi Delta Theta
Sigma Chi

Phi Kappa Psi
Sigma Nu

Phi Kappa Sigma
Pi Kappa Alpha
Kappa Alpha

Sororities:

Pi Beta Phi » A
Kappa Kappa Gamma ""
Kappa Alpha Theta
Kappa Delta

Chi Omega

-Numbers based on reports from each Greek organization

005 Rsults

02-03

- «

03-04

 

Anonymous hazing reporting introduced

BY ERIN JULIUS
. ED1TOR—IN—CHIEF

With this year’s pledgeship come new limi-
tations on fraternities.

Inter—Fraternity Council Interim Director
Kevin Weaver, IFC President Tom Pickering,
Director of Leadership Development Burr Datz
and Director of the University Commons Margo
McCliIiton met with fraternity presidents and
new member educators Sunday, January 2 to
discuss changes.

For freshmen, fraternity activities may not
take place between 12 a.m. and 7 a.m. on week-
days and between 2 a.m. and 9 a.m. on week-
ends. Fraternities were also asked to ensure
that their new members are TIPS—trained in
bartending and are required to hold at least 12
hours of study halls a week for their new mem-
bers.

At this meeting, the Dean of Students
Office also revealed a new way to report hazing
allegations. At hazing.wlu.edu, new members
can anonymously report hazing allegations.

Burr Datz also went through hypothetic
cases of hazing to educate the fraternity men
about acceptable behavior.

Washington and Lee concerned with articles and news
portraying W&L in a less than glorious manner

BY KATHERINE SHELL
ASSITANT NEWS EDITOR

Recently, Washington and Lee has been
the subject of questionably negative public-
ity. With the Publication of the Princeton Re-
view listing Washington and Lee as the 2"“
party school in the nation, and with the
Roanoke Times November article on Sexual
Assault on Campus, the W&L community has
become concerned with articles and news por-
traying the university in a less than glorious
manner.

The Princeton Review is
based almost entirely on
student opinions and 
polls. “They contact the *
University early in the “A
process,” said Tim Kolly,
Director of Communica-
tions, for information.

In past years, the University has been
more likely to comply. “We have told them we
are sitting this out,” Kolly said. However, the
response on campus and in the W&L commu-
nity has increased this year with the increase
in rankings.

Do other colleges have as much of a con-
cern for what the Princeton Review says about
them? “I have never heard anything about the
Princeton Review on campus,” says Edward
Wilfung, a student at Wake Forest University.
However, Tim Kolly disagrees with the idea of

 

W&L spending an inordinate amount of time
and money engaging in responses to the
Princeton Review. “I’m not sure that we are
spending that much time on it. We responded
when it first came out,” said Kolly.

“We have no problem with people inter-
viewing this school. They do it to be cute and
sell books. We would like the survey to give
good information to students and parents.
There’s a difference between having fun and
being the 2"“ party school.”

More recently, students were interviewed

VS

about sexual assault on campus after the fig-
ures of the survey were published earlier this
fall. Lorna Golder, ’07, was concerned with
the manner in which she was approached. “I
was the least informed [of the girls inter-
viewed] of what was going on on campus. We
wanted so badly to defend the guys, saying
that they care about their reputation.” In-
stead, Golder was quoted as saying essen-
tially that sexual assault “can be very overt
at times.” ,

Kolly asserts that the University was very

much in charge of who the figures were pub-

'lished to and why. “The sexual assault figures
‘were troubling. The University was under no

compulsion to make the figures public. Once
we had made the decision to release informa-
tion to the students, both newspapers pre-
sented it in an extremely responsible manner,“
said Kolly. “Our approach was to say, we got
these figures, we thought students should have
them. This is a rational problem, these are the
constructive things we are doing about it. We
tried to steer [the reporter] towards campus
leaders who are involved in

reform.”
Though the
Princeton Review re-
porter did interview
campus leaders about
positive methods of end-
ing sexual assault on cam-
pus, he also included stu-
dents with little knowledge as to the exact re-
sponses, Kolly, however, was impressed with
the overall article. “What came out was con-
structive, saying W&L is confronting and solv-

ing this problem,” said Kolly.

However, Golder had a different perspec-
tive. “We all came away from the reporter think-
ing wow-he was poking and prodding for in—
formation he could use,” she says. “I have a
friend who lives in Roanoke. People were call-
ing from Roanoke asking if she had been sexu-
ally assaulted.”

IFC President Tom Pickering said that a
New Member Education committee was formed
last winter. The Committee looked at Cornell
University for ideas about how to deal with
pledgeship and created an online, anonymous
hazing reporting system. “We looked at what
Comell has done and that was one idea,” said
Pickering.

One student appointed by the New
Member Education committee will be helping
to review complaints filed on the website.
“We’ll use a common-sense approach. . .a com-
plaint has to be credible, we’ll need to believe
it actually happen,” Pickering said.

Michael Lee, Chi Psi’s New Member
Educator, said it, “sets a dangerous precedent
to have anonymous reporting of hazing
violations...pledgeship is immediately sus-
pended at the first report of a hazing allega-
tion. It’s tantamount to pre-punishment," he
said.

According to Lee, the new member edu-
cators were told that all anonymously reported
claims would be investigated, “I have a sneak-
ing suspicion that many incredible claims will
be made out of spite, out of a desire for re-
venge,” he said.

C AsoTodd
Tate resigns for
personal reasons

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR—IN-CHIEF

Fraternities lost their administrative
leader late last month when Inter-Frater-
nity Council Advisor and Director of Stu-
dent Activities and Greek LifeTodd Tate
resigned.

Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students,
said Tate, “resigned voluntarily” and added
that, “he did a great job while he was
here. . .I will personally miss working with

Tate resigned December 17, 2004 for
personal reasons.

Kevin Weaver, Director of Parent Rela-
tions, is the interim IFC Advisor. Dean .
Watkins said an interim director was ap-
pointed because this is such a busy time of
year for the IFC, so it should not be without
an advisor.

Margo McClinton, Director of the
University Commons and Campus Activi-
ties will be chairing a search for Tate’s re-
placement.

“The search begins immediately,” said
Watkins, and there will be an IFC Advisor,
“hopefully by June or July.”

Todd Tate could not be reached for
comment.

 

 

PAGE 2

Siilililiiiiiiniromn

Reasonableness called for
during this pledgeship

Pledgeship can be a dangerous
time for freshman and it is prudent
for the Administration to take such
proactive steps as creating a website
where students can report hazing
anonymously. This year, both the
Administration and fraternities need
to act reasonably. -

Anonymous reporting of hazing
violations could easily get out of
hand. Campus sentiment seems to
be that false reports will be submit-
ted due to inter-house rivalries and
freshmen unhappy with the way re-.
cruitment went. The Administration
should understand this concern, and
treat every claim seriously but
should also be wary of the fact that
there is potential for abuse.

Underground hazing is another
frightening possibility. If fraternities
cannot have their pledges pull harm-
less pranks publicly, or take road
trips for pledge class bonding, they
may instead engage in more secret,
and thus dangerous activities. And
even though the anonymous site is a
good step, many pledges feel a strong
loyalty to their houses and will prob-
ably not snitch.

The bottom line is that
pledgeship, or the new member edu-
cation period, is a time for pledge
class bonding and fraternities will
want their new pledges to partici-
pate in group activities. To an ex-
tent, pledge class bonding is accept-
able and necessary for a strong
Greek organization to continue. The
Administration must understand this,
and use common sense in dealing
with hazing violation reports. Fra-
ternities, in turn, need to act reason-
ably and not take advantage of the
Administration’s common-sense ap-
proach.

   

 te of the Week

“Me.”

~ “Noah,” on unzippednet describing the
perfect sexual partner.

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderman

News Editor ~

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Directors

David Seifert

Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara
Amanda Tholke
Vanessa Amess

Copy Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phl@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi’
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wlu.edu

i 5f‘.ti’.!v°.'9-?

 

CAIEYANDERSON
OPINIONS EDIIOR

FMAii;ANDiaizsoi\i1@\x7iuia)U

MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2005

Rush week as seen from the inside-
one Recruitment Chair’s experience

file photo

SRAT STRESS. Sorority rush for the 2004-05 school year proved to be overwhelming for nearly everyone involved, pledges and active sisters alike.

Recruitment week 2005... my third year
and yet it still surprises me. Like college ad-
missions it seems that we do the best we can,
try to sell ourselves with as much show, and
hopefully truth, as possible, and then just
cross our fingers as hope for the best.

From where I stand, I think this year went
exceedingly well and I adore all our new
women. I would
also like to thank the other
sorority recruitment chairs
for being wonderful to work
with!

I don’t honestly know
that much about fraternity rush week, as I have
(a) never participated in it and (b) been busy
with sorority rush, so most of my comments
are aimed towards the female population of
the campus. - -

This past week has been a blur, maybe
that’s because of the activity level, or maybe
the lack of sleep.

In five days I have managed to drop a
ream of paper on my hand (both embarrassing
and painful), staple my dominant hand (don’t
ask how), and somehow succeed in making
my apartment look like my closet just threw-
up, while only spending time to sleep there.

 

The Indian Ocean-E
emment.
still bitter about the Chargers?

we’re trying to get to vote.
The O.C.- E

Bubba and George H.W.- <,:>
a dent in the massive need for help?
Weather- <;:;>MAKE UP YOUR MIND!

Christmas Season-

New Year’s-U
it’s just not the same at all.‘

RUBBER DUCKYW
-_SAA;131CI<_\@R,TI:i!_6_

San Diego Chargers- M I am now convinced that no sports team
from San Diego is ever going to win a championship. Not ever.

And the tons of aid that’s pouring in after the

tsunami is being partially eaten away by corruption and inefficient gov-

Lady Vols- H Seems like a lot of people are really excited about this
one. I’m not a huge college b—ball fan, so meh. Did I mention that I’m

Iraq- E We need to be more careful not to drop bombs on the people

Country Music- ﬂ Yeah, that’s right, I said it.

Yeah, that’s right, I said it. No one in California even
CALLS it that (it’s usually just “Orange,”) and it’s not really that upper-
class. Most of it is just an extension of crappy L.A. sprawl.

Former political adversaries get
together to work for tsunami aid, but can even this formidable team put

Apparently, if you start the season around
Halloween, by the time you actually get CLOSE to Christmas, people
just don’t care anymore. Speaking of disappointing holidays...

I have not read a newspaper in over a
week or even bothered to turn on CNN. Paint-
ing my toenails became more of a hassle than
it was worth.

Exam week was less stressful than this
past week. As one of my sorority sisters put
it, “Class is where you go to get a break from
setting up the sorority house.”

And keep in mind that we
here at W&L run a no—frills re-
cruitment, which means I didn’t
have to instruct my chapter to
cut out 5,000 snowﬂakes and
hang them from the ceiling or
build a giant cloud out of chicken wire. Thank
goodness for that!

But we do have to sing very loudly, while
walking. downstairs, andsmiling (and before
you judge just try it and see how much you
like it!).

I also don’t think it’s possible for the
Rho Gammas (which I will forever call Rho
Chis) to thoroughly prepare their halls for
how loud the singing really is.

Hey, at least we didn’t have to deal with
snow! Of course the weather decided to take
an alternate turn and we had to worry about
people almost passing out instead.

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

food of the gods.

Winter Break- E

Dining Services people-

“Hot” as a positive adjective not describing looks-H I hate it, though.

Newcomb Hall- ll

V Great Britain- <::> Hasn’t yet regained its 19th century glory.
I mean, it was nice and all, but really, without Dick Clark,

2004- <:',> Meh.

Chewy Spree- H Ambrosia and nectar are out, this candy is in as the new

LAX- U Ranked in the preseason. Totally going to own this year.

Books- 3 Apparently the average cost per term nationwide is about $200 or
so. For us, I think $200 is about average for one CLASS.

EVERYONE is complaining about how short it is, but it
seems like nothing is actually«being done about it. Who’s in charge of this
sort of thing? I sympathize; when you have to ﬂy to San Diego and back on
each end of the measly two weeks, it kinda sucks. Comparable institutions
often give out a MONTH of \Vinter Break, although they don’t have Spring
Tenns, granted. But don’t we deserve at least three weeks?

who work at those places in Lex don’t compare to the excellent people who
work at the Cafe and the Marketplace.
Todd Tate-B Not even gonna touch this one.

Tom Cruise-ll Overheard— “He’s so not cute anymore.”

Just because we study the past there doesn’t mean. that
our professors should be relegated to using educational technology FROM
the past. More smart classrooms! And what happened to the moon mural? ‘

Not having the ability to turn on the air—con—
ditioning was a nice little touch. I’m not com-
plaining, as I actually enjoy recruitment week,
but simply writing my observations.

So there you have it, just a few little in-
sider thoughts on the past few days. I could
have made it sappy explaining how much I
adore spending time with my sisters (which is
true) and how much I love meeting all these
new people (also true), but that would be
about as interesting to read as watching some-
one iron.

So to conclude, I guess I’m going to say
I’m glad it’s over for this year. Panhellenic
rules can seem silly, but they are there for a
reason and I’m glad that I can now break them.

Guys, I wish you all the luck with
pledgeship.  ' ' " ‘

Ladies, it was great ‘getting to meet so
many of you all and welcome, everyone, to
sorority land!

contact Sara Duckworth at
duckworths@wIu.edu

 

I have given up on fast food because the people

. ¢

Write for Phi Opinions

The Ring-tum Phi is currently accepting new Opinions writers.
Contact phi @w|u.edu if interested.

¢

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2004

PAGE 3



Congress must not block Alberto

Gonzales’ Attorney-General appointment

John Ashcroft’s likely successor, Alberto
Gonzales, is currently before the Senate Judiciary
Committee, and is, at the present moment, facing
some extremely pointed questions from both Re-
publicans and Democrats.

Abraham Lincoln once remarked, doubtless
with no small degree of either cynicism or sincer-
ity, “if both factions, or neither, shall abuse you,
you will probably be about right.
Beware of being assailed by one
and praised by the , other.”
Gonzales is a man who has been
rather harshly critiqued by fire-
breathers on both the right and the left, and thus,
having such a high opinion of Mr. Lincoln as I do, I
believe he is about right.

Most of the controversy stems from his career
from 1999 and onward. In 1999, he was appointed as
a justice of the Supreme Court of Texas. During his
time on the Texas court, he made a few rulings that
dealt with that aiways-delightful topic, abortion. The
most important of these was a case wherein he ruled
with the court majority that not all Texan teenagers
seeking abortions would have to go through a pro-
cess of parental notiﬁcation. This has drawn the
harshest criticism from pro—lifers. Judie Brown of the
‘American Life League said— “choosing not to rule
against abortion, in any situation, is the epitome of
denying justice for an entire segment of the American
population- pre-bom babies in the womb.” Gonzales
himself is reportedly pro—life, but his stated reason-
ing for ruling to strike down parental notification

Letter to the Editor

MODERATE’S MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

shows the ﬂaws in the rabid pro-lifers’ thinking:

“My own personal feelings about abortion
don’t matter...the qyestion is, what is the law, what
is the precedent? Sometimes, interpreting a statue,
you may have to uphold a statute that is personally
offensive to you. But as a judge, that’s your job.”

Gonzales, in other words, may feel one way or
the other about issues, but he’s not going to inject
his personal opinion into his inter-
pretation of the law, which he’s try-
ing to keep as objective as possible,
it seems. I respect that in a person,
but especially in a judge. Ithink that
his unwillingness to bow to political pressure to mis-
interpret the law is a huge positive that will make him
a great Attomey—General, and certainly an improve-
ment on his predecessor.

On the other end of the political aisle, some Demo-
crats would like to shift part of the blame for the Iraqi
torture scandal onto his shoulders. Since 2001 ,
Gonzales has served as Counsel to the President; ba-
sically he’s the President’s private legal advisor. Dur-
ing that time, there’s strong circurnstancial evidence
that he helped to push for a narrower redefinition of
torture as “excruciating and agonizing pain.”

In his hearing, Gonzales has acknowledged that
he took part in the administration’s discussions on
the matter, but has vehemently denounced any cur-
rent support of alterations to the Geneva Conven-
tion, saying that he fully supports the older, more
rigorous definition of torture, calling his earlier ac-
tions sirnply “preliminary,” not anything which he

photo raurtegr banzard. edu

Yes
60%

 

Phi Quick Poll A

“Do you believe that one or
more Greek organizations will
be suspended this year for
hazing violations?”

48 students polled, 25 male, 23
female. Poll has 90% conﬁdence

7

No
40%

MAN or "nus HOUR. Perfect replacement for Ashcroft?

believed would permanently change U.S. policy.
Gonzales, who would be the first hispanic At-
tomey—General, has shown that he is an adherent
tothe law before he is an adherent to politics. The
man was a good judge, and I think that translates
seamlessly into being a good Attomey—General,

in a +/— 5% margin of error

Phi quick polls are conducted via a
random selection of Washington
and ‘Lee students, using the

telephone directory.

MIT Grad offers outside
perspective on W&L
“affirmative action”

Dear Editor,

The Ring-tum Phi of No-
vember 15th published
something of a front—page
interdict from the W&L Stra-
tegic Directions Committee.
Addressed “To the Student
Body”, it excepted sharply
to certain student participa-
tions in a recent facilitated
discussion session. All
Committee members signed
it, under the lead signature
of Provost Tom Williams.

The Committee re-
proached certain utterances
made about minority student
representation at W&L, call-
ing them “racist”, “insensi-
tive”, “uninformed”, “un-
worthy”, “dishonorable”,
“inaccurate”, “uncivil”,
“false” and “baseless”. Yet
that passion did not keep
some of the Committee’s
own assertions from sound-
ing as puerile as what was
attributed to the students.

For example, the Com-
mittee disputed the idea that
the goal of diversity has re-

   

 

 

)(:

 stanaam

  

A features; incts-me:
 lat]-watt 33"iﬂt's-E584!‘ Cﬂ staraa with ‘six speakers. iaactuding 
A’ tweeters and  Scarred Freeaaainag f  -r;:sapah?7Ae and KM
. aatattsite ready!‘ Air aaaaitiaraa-ri ﬁhnirza at ttsraa wheat WW?
 efeasiigaas. ,3‘ Anti-iﬂvﬁié» tiredness i‘ Fewer ’winr£aws.   -and
 aataééée rniirrera iﬁ-rear‘, ﬁ«ﬂ_.BW-miée Pewartrain warranty"

sulted in a disproportionate
number of minority students
in the bottom quartile of the
entering class. But it offered
not a statistic nor datum in
defense of that position.

It also asserted that “A
classroom and community
with varied experiences and
backgrounds is a better
learning space than one
made up of a homogeneous
population”. Yet however
that accords with tenets of
political correctness, it is an
insensitive (and even dan-
gerous) affront to what we
accept as literate societies
in nations like Finland and
Japan.

The Committee de-
scribed as beneficial and
wise “efforts to bring diver-
sity of thought and experi-
ence to the W&L student
body”. Yet the veracity of
this aside, persons in this
modern age apprehend that
pious pleas for diversity are
routinely used to conceal
and shepherd along the di-
visive figure of race-based
Affirmative Action.

For race-based Affirma-
tive Action is manifestly
what the Committee pro-
poses for W&L. And while

   E ALUE

&f%~:.§:.:.-ate starts araiét eanippea,  ran aceassnrirg»  riai}. Single, srraigtatéarriard rrrama art-::iris_i,,

Frira f$§3f‘ii‘éﬂt§i at

$14195‘

i—3£'i€Z§1? as arrears

$16,070  

one hesitates to declare the
Committee naive, its pre-
sumption that this is benefi-
cial ignores the strife and
discord Affirmative Action
has already brought to
scores of colleges and uni-
versities._

The Committee’s rigid
determination to implement
Affirmative Action probably
explains too the most dis-
quieting aspect of its com-
munication. For there is in
its temper and tone, and in
its construction as an
outfling against offending
students, something out-
side the grace of George
Washington, or the dignity
of Robert Lee.

Its peremptory tone
seems conducive less to
dispassionate debate than
to some tract propounding a
moral lesson. Its disparaging
phrases assail doubting stu-
dents and their contending
remarks. Its unshakable
premise is that a dichotomy
exists between persons of
decency and those unsworn
to Affirmative Action. And
asits sentences grow to
stem dicta, students realize
what they are to think — or
else.

The problem seems to be
that the Strategic Directions
Committee advocates (in
earnest) what is being ever
more pilloried as sociologi-
cal dogma. Its members thus
become proselytizers, whose
fury descends upon any ob-
jections to their policy, even
those voiced with the utmost
propriety. The urgency to
squelch debate on a policy
for which we find more in-
stances of failure than suc-
cess is notably disturbing,
and inimical to the expansive
intellectual atmosphere and
discourse of a University.

One can only wonder
whether diversity of opinion
existed within the Commit-
tee, whose members act in
such concert on a controver-
sial policy. And one wonders
too how W&L embarks with-
out pause upon a policy
begging for scrutiny stron-
ger than that from question-
ing students in a discussion
group.

The great pity is that the
Committee seems blind to
the possibility that some in-
tractable sociological prob-
lems owe more to the effects
of 10,000 years of human his-
tory than to the utterances

Seton’: “Pure Prim” aui'ti'iasa- exparieriae
u mesam Ha negate. Ha: irassta.

of students in a discussion
session.

Avenues exist for the
Committee to improve W&L,
but race-based Affirmative
Action will not help a Uni-
versity built upon any tra-
dition of excellence. It may
help some minority stu-
dents, admittedly, at the
greater expense of others.
Yet still, and to that minor-
ity, nothing could better af-
firm a projection to make
them objects of unspoken
scorn than some race-based
Affirmative Action program.

Finally, the Committee
might give thought to what
effect its unprecedented in-
trusion will have on future
student participations in fa-
cilitated discussion groups.
For with whatever good it
intended its communication
of November 15th, it has un-
doubtedly paid a price for
an impulsive breach of pre-
scribed administrative
disinvolvement in student
discussion sessions.

Sincerely,
John Edelberg

Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ’75

n
Submit

letters to
the editor at

phi@wlu.edu

The Ring-tum Phi
welcomes all responsible
submissionsandletters. All
submissions must be e-
mailed to phi@wlu.edu or
in the University Center
mailbox by5 pm. Friday to
appear in the following
week’s edition. TheRing-
tum Phi reserves the right
toedit submissions forcon-
tentandlength.

 
  
  

   

      

 
 
  

 
 
     
    
   

*« ‘-~.~<m~arq-a~>1n4vI-u~d:r'n~vsu-».a»-

 

PAGE 4

 
    

 

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team showed
their dominance on January 8 with
a decisive win over Hollins.
Thanks to great shooting,
the Generals were able to score

W 66 points and shot just under 50

percent from the ﬂoor. Hollins,
on the other hand, was only able
to put up 41 points with 28 per-
cent from the ﬂoor.

Sophomore Jessica
Hunsinger led the team and tied a
career high with 26 points. She

n rites   Pr-A

also pulled in fourteen boards.

The 66,41 victory improves
the Generals to 4-3 in conference
play, and 7-4 overall.

Defensively, the Generals
were led by senior Bethany
Dannelly who registered five
steals. She also added ﬁve as-
sists on the other end of the
court.

Hollins, now 2-4 in confer-
ence play, was led by Brandi
Cochran, who scored 14 points
along with 6 boards.

On Tuesday, Washington
and Lee heads to Roanoke. Tip
off is at 7:00.

SPORTS
Generals tally up 66 points Thirteen W&L athletes receive 4.0 or higher

MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2005

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Washington and Lee Director of Athletics Mike Walsh has announced
that 133 students earned Scholar-Athlete awards during the recently com-
pleted fall term. The students are all members of W&L athletic teams and
achieved a grade-point average (GPA) of at least 3.500.

Additionally, 13 of the students honored achieved grade—point
averages of 4.0 or higher. Among the students achieving 4.0 or higher
GPA’s were sophomore football player Sutton Ansley (Leawood,
Kan./Pembroke Hill School), junior football player Donny Banks
(Charlotte, N.C./Providence Day), freshman all-region cross country
and track athlete Tom Brower (Syracuse, N.Y./Christian Brothers
Academy), sophomore men’s soccer player Tyrrell Burrus (Beau-
mont, Texas/Monsignor Kelly Catholic), senior all—state cross coun-
try and track athlete Steve Chambers (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area),
junior All—ODAC rider Katie Goodrich (Indianapolis, Ind./North Cen-
tral), junior women’s temris player Stephanie Hannon (Gastonia, N.C./

Charlotte Latin), junior ﬁeld hockey player Courtney Harrison (Rich-
mond, Va./Collegiate), sophomore All-ODAC women’s tennis player
Katie Kingsbury (J enkintown, Pa./Philadelphia—Montgomery Chris-
tian), senior women’s swimmer Suzie LeFleur (Natick, Mass./
Montrose), seniorAll—ODAC and all-region lacrosse and ﬁeld hockey
player Kitt Murphy (New York, N.Y./St. Catherines), senior women’s
lacrosse player Anne Rochfort (Baltimore, Md./Notre Dame Prep),
and senior All-ODAC women’s track athlete Meredith Walker (Trav-
elers Rest, S.C./Christ Church Episcopal).

Twenty—two of W&L’s 23 varsity athletic programs achieved a
team GPA of at least 3.000, led by the women’s tennis team with a
3.445. The highest men’s team GPA was the men’s tennis team with a
3.331 and no team recorded a GPA lower than 2.993.

W&L had an outstanding fall season on the playing fields as
well. W&L’s nine fall sports teams combined for a record of 61-32-6
(.647) with volleyball, men’s cross country and women’s cross coun-
try all winning ODAC Championships.

Tuesday  

- Womens Basketball at
Roanoke; 7:00 0

L

Wednesday

- Mens Basketball vs. EMU-
- 7:00

 wek in spo

.* Wnmsws-.....i. . .-
vs.RMC;?f00  7 it

 

Saturday

0 Wrestling hosts W&L Invita-
tional;10:00

- Women’s Basketball at
Lynchburg;1:00

- Swirnming vs. Gettysburg; 2:00 A

0 Men’s Basketball at Lynchburg;

Sunday

0 Women’s Basketball vs.
RMWC;3:00

° Men’s Basketball at H-SC;
2:00

W&L Men’s Basketball Falls to
Roanoke, 71-59 (118)

Roanoke Coilege went on a 24-7
run over the ﬁnal 8:32 to defeat
Washington and Lee, 71-59, in
ODAC men’s basketball action on
Saturday night in Salem, Va. ‘ I

W&L Swimming Downed by
SUNY Geneseo (1/8)

The Washington anti Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams
were both defeated by SUNY
Geneseo on Saturday evening
at Twornbley Pool. The men fell
to 44 with a £32430 loss, while
the women dropped to 7-4 with
a 141-118 setback. Meet results
are unavailable at this time.

W&L Wrestling Goes 2-{ate

GettysbursQum¥ £113.),

7 The Washington and Igee wreséii 1

tling team posted a 2-} record
whiic cornpetinggﬂia the
Gettysburg Quad meet on Satntv

day afternoon. The Generals do» A

feared Centennial Conference-

foe Gettysburg, 25-17, anti;
downed Pensacola Clittistian,» 38- 

W&L Men’s Lax Earns Pre-
season Ranking (12/30)

vlnsicie Lacrosse released its
Faceoff Yearbook preseason
Division III men’s lacrosse
coaches poll recently. Wash~
ington and Lee ranked eighth
overall in the voting.

THIS PAS T wEEK’sspORT s IN B RIEF

Three Generals Named to All-
State Volleyball Team (12130)

Three members of the Washing-
ton and Lee volleyball team were
named to the Virginia Sports In-
formation Directors (VaSID) Col-
lege Division All-State team
which was announced recently.
Additionally, junior setter Chris-
tine Glarlysz (Palm Harbor, Fla./

0-.9

Five Generals Rained to Ali-
State Football Team (12Ji7)

The Virginia Sports Infonnae ‘

tion Directors Association
(VaSlD) announced its Coliege
Division All-State Footbail

team on Friday afternoon. ~ 1

Washington and Lee had five
players honored and all were
named to the flI‘S£ team.

9, before falling to Davidson, 37-
12

Berkeley Prep) was named the
VaSID Player of the Year, while
Head Coach Bryan Snyder was
named the VaSID Co-Coach of
the Year.

The Washington and Lee
University Community
is invited to the
John W. Elrod
Birthday Celebration

Thursday, January 20,

2005

10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Elrod Commons Living

Room

An Informal ongoing
program of live music,
vocal entertainment
and a short video
about John Elrod
will be showcased

Light refresments
will be served

sponsored by
Campus Activities Staff
Elrod Review Committee
General Activities Board

.3323"
STEV 1;

Baldwin College last Tuesday.

Write Sports
for the Phi
Contact Marshall

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Special‘? sh"?
273 Raphine Road
Raphlne, VA 24472
smasszzo - 1-877-Nfr-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams. kits. 0655195 and
accessories. Customer service 00111 SW1 *0
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy-

CallforwoI'kshop&®slnl0l'l|181i0|1-

Halfway between l.:xiIl8l0" ‘W1 5""""""

On I491 I I-64 at all 205, Ranhine 4nu'les west on
Rom; 6w_ Raphinc Road. Locrrtcd and WOW"!
farm that ofers "U-PICA ” oppomwitiesfor fresh
fruit when in season.

lites - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed Imtil 8:00

   
 

ARlN()S/ .\(,.-ll M HI

DANNELLY FOR 2!!! Senior guard Bethany Dannelly
goes for a lay—up against the Squirrels of Mary

 .

Generals down
Squirrels 79-56

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

Every Lady General got a bucket against
Mary Baldwin on Tuesday, January 4. The
final score was 79-56 and was an important
game to keep the winning streak alive.

Sophomore sensation Jessica
Hunsinger said, “It was a good win and
things are really coming together well.”

The team hopes to extend their winning
streak to 5 games when they play Roanoke on
Tuesday. The game should prove to be inter-
esting. Washington and Lee has never de-
feated Roanoke, but they are optimistic that
the drought will end on Tuesday.

“The Roanoke team was at our game
against Hollins,” Hunsinger said, “We could
tell they were a little worried.”

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operatorto
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
lnformation/ Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
Lwvvw.s_t§tr_ave|.com.

 ea, a 2mm:

rzznar CAR DITNER & Tm Toy Cars

Order from our on menu
Grfairt uxﬁrr one of oz:r1¥LL YGU CANEIlTBa_,ﬁ£:.’

~ Friday Night Seafood Buffet use can rm am-rem
~ saemsay Night Steak at Starting: 5PM-10PM
-sunaay Baked Chicken at sea Rios mu-em
~8reakfast Bar 7 Days a Week enema»
~E}aily Hot Country Bar 1tA!t§»~10PM
~0aily Soup, Salad, & Free car zssmepu

flame Cooked Meals Ev’ Smtthem Hospitality!

OrderBrmkfzst 24Hmn.saDay.Scvea¢lzysawea:k!

Located at

LEE HI TRAVEL PLAZA
t-81 &I-54,EXl’I‘ t95,251£xorrrm.ssnwr*,La:anto'mR.vs

540463-3478

Grezl:Faad&agrcwt:coliact:ioaof
ArrBiqueFa&a¥Ears&T§nToy9l

 

 

THE RlNG~—TUM PH:

  

M9N   PAGES
~       Welcomes the

1% T  f   by 2005 Pledge Class  

Maria Ahmad
Mary Catherine Burdine
Guinevere Burner
Katie Carmody
Laura Denny
Ashley Donohoe

Laura Pasternack
Emily Peck
Ashley Pipkin-Jones
Julie Pleasants
Rhodes Proctor
Amy Roberson

Lisa Hua
Ashley Hubbard
Paten Hughes
Emily Hulen
Faith Hunter
Hayley James

Whitney Duffey Lana Kang Jenna Thorne
Kristine Early Amy KanNan Caroline Tomeny

Mallory Frewer Whitney King Lauren Travis
Abigail Gage Kathryn Krall Lee Van de Water

Briana Gregory Becky LeMoine Erin Vaughn
Kelly Harvey Addy Ng Annie Vliegenthart

Audrey Horn Meredith Nobles

Angela Young

ff” ’ 7

Kappa Alpha Theta

Welcomes our new pledge class

Kat Allen Kathy Garman Lauren Ottaway
  Christine Bender Georgia Giiroy Casie Pedroza  
A‘ Lil Brandler A'ison Gockley Tara Rubenstein

Samatha Hishmeh

Jessica Buckingham

Lauren Rudolph

i~ Danielle Cardone
Martha Caulkins

Betsy Chaplin

Nina Coolidge
Andrea Deoudes

Diana Dozier

Kay Dyt

Shaun Edwards

Bonnie Fay

Kendall Korte
Kristen Krouchick
Chony Lu
Kat Miehaels
Libby Moore  
Colette Moryan
Sara Mueller

Laura Nugent
Shana Oltmans

Laura Seerpst
Alice Shih
Meg Slosson
Sarah Tilbor
Elliott WaH<er
Abby Weichel
Leah Weston
Liz Wﬂhams
Emily Wolff

 

THE RING~TUM Pm v

PAGE 6   MONDAY. JANUARY 10.2005

'3

l

   

congratulations to the new
kanua delta nledue class! ’

Kimnlfenr Katherine Lcwe
Bhristina Bcrtner Jennir Hiemann '
FJ Bcircr Maaaie Huaent *
amanda Burns Madeline Mairer ,. ‘
Lauren Bccli Blaire Mcnrce
Mesann ﬂaw Lauren Mcrea K
Lnuise cenmr KI1aKiMurris ’
Katie Duncan Lauren Parks
Maraarct E||{il15 Kristen Peifer v
Lindsairtrickscn liatherinc Hentschler
Blair Fleuzner Heamer Hilias I’
Lcsan Gilisnn 'LI'|J‘|1imEi.F Hcdtstein ~
Maureendrant Jessica simmcns
Anne Hass ell L J cntnr Steinbcci: ’
Laura Henscn Erin Tncmnscn
Bhrissirﬂcsan Iiel1eccaTimmis .
Laura Hclman ManrI.'iIairTurner
stennanielcrdcn tleuin Willkins J
Allie Kelli!   Kelleirzwart ‘
Lisa Lennard

*

  Kappa  
Kappa Gamma

   

proudly welcomes our
new pledge class!

Liz Appel Inslee Haynes Katherine Perry

Ashley Billman Lilly Haywood Brooke Segodnia   .

Sally Bittinger Virginia Hopkins Caitlin Smith

Kelly Boss Megan Hyland Jeanne Smith '

Haley Bunting Briana Johnson Molly Smith ‘

Anne Russell Calvert Lauren Johnson Polly Smith i

Mary Childs   Sarah Johnson Susan Summers _

Margaret Cogar Caroline Mann Carrie Beth "

Lily de Grazia Betsy Matthews Swinford *
»Ch1:1;ir;a___gDgig(_gon Blair McCartney Allie Tanner H

Elisa Gibbs . “argansMcMaster Lilla Theus ’

Emily Grimball   Natalie  ulie Von Sternberg  

Lauren Gunn   Jackie Neilson Grayson Wallace  *

Mary Radford Wyatt vi

 

  

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2005

’I”HE Ril\?G~”IU.MPHl L
&   IFE

F3
C/D

Students learn Hollywood lingo

BY ELYSE MooDY
STAFF WRITER

Most students spent their exam week locked inside the
library, cramming for finals and leaving only for quick runs to
the CoOp for coffee. Several W & L students, however, spent
their last couple of days here running away from an alien at-
tack in the hills of Staunton. '

The Steven Spielberg movie War of the Worlds spent four
days filming here before Christmas break, between December
13 and 16. Junior Meg Strother says the experience was amaz-
ing, “definitely worth getting up at 3:30am, braving the 16 de-
gree weather and pushing back my exams!” With lows in the
mid-20’s every day, everyone involved nearly froze to death as
we learned the meanings of “background action” and “reset”——
terms that I came to know well. This means that you go back to
the beginning of the scene and you do it all over again, exactly
the same as the last shot.

We spent Wednesday morning, from 4:00 am until 11:30
pm walking over the same stretch of hillside, at least a mile
away from the camera. Thursday morning was a repeat of
Wednesday's schedule—another day of mindless walking for
most people involved. For those of you who are in it, it will be
amazing to be able to identify yourself as that brown blob in
the middle of the hill.

Although there were over two hundred extras, the costum-
ing and make-up departments paid incredible attention to each
and every person’s appearance. People were made to look ex-
actly as if they had just survived an apocalyptic experience.
Meg adds, “it was incredible to see the attention paid to every
detail... I was shocked when a lady freaked out that I had curly
blond hair and told me to hurry to the hair and makeup tent
where people could ‘get those curls out.’

I was just one refugee among hundreds, so far from the
camera, yet they cared that my hair was curly.” Even at an
incredible distance from the camera, extras were given the op-
portunity to feel important, as if the way they looked mattered
to the overall presentation of the movie onscreen.

The location was chosen because it is absolutely breath-
taking. Staunton, VA is a beautiful place at 4:00 in the morning
when the sun is coming up over the hills. I was lucky enough
to be a mere six feet away from'Mr. Cruise (1 almost died) and he
kept telling the camera crew to hurry and set up because the
light was so amazing. It was also incredible to see director
Steven Spielberg in action.

He literally involved himself in every shot in which I par-
ticipated. It was just amazing to see such a famous director in
action, working so closely with the movie-making process. Dur-
ing one scene, he actually rode on a moving camera vehicle,
careening down a hill in front of Hummers and screaming refu-
gees, to get a shot. Amazing.

Most of the scenes were shot near an old farmhouse and
barn facility (Tim Robbins’ house in the movie), where a pond

and large hill opposite the house made fog possible and com-
pleted the landscape. The movie requires such a setting be-
cause the alien invasion is supposed to be taking place on the
other side of a large hill—the house in the valley is separated
from the battle by a small rise of land. We spent afternoons
and evenings running like crazy up and down this hill, to-
wards and away from the battle.

The battle scene itself will be added in with studio foot-
age and CGI. Unfortunately, there were no aliens present dur-
ing the shoot, but there. were lots of military vehicles and the
sounds of jet planes overhead to add to the excitement.

As extras, the production team kept all of the extras in a
tent far away from the set. Luckily, it was heated, and they
provided us with two catered meals a day. Coffee was abun-
dant; it became highly necessary to function in 20-degree
weather after a 15-hour day of work. The days were long, but
it was worth it.

The movie, War of the Worlds, is the highest-budgeted
movie in film history thus far, and trailers are already advertis-
ing it as an action movie of epic proportions. It is scheduled
for release in late June 2005. Definitely plan to see it; you will
probably be able to spot many of your classmates!

<I><I><I><I><I><I><I><I><I><I>

Emﬁmmx
mm&UmEm

&mﬂmwm@Mmw

PAGE 7

W621. Bookstore Presents. . .
Student Book of the Week

A mduly Quinn: ofile looluﬁn III In lug-‘lulu DIII

PLEDGED

    

 

 

taxman Rom

After the national ofﬁce forbade locals from cooperaung with
Alexandra Robbins, she disguised herselfas an undergad
and found four sorority women willing to risk expulsion to

help her. While Robbins structures her narrative around the

year's ritual cycle-the rush, the bid, pledging, Initiation,
Greek Week, etc.—the timeless soap opera of sorority life
occupies center stage.

Pledged combines a sharp-eyed narrative with extensive
reporting and the ﬂy—on—the-wall voyeurism of reality shows
to provide an unprecedented look at the inner workings of a
college sorority. A fascinating read for upper-class srat vets,

new pledges, curious independents, or even the occasional
frat boy with a serious thirst for knowledge.

Regularpxioez S25. 95
This week: 31 9. 99

Strait’s newest release offers classic country favontes

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

My current CD obsession, aside from Lindsay Lohan’s
Speak, is George Strait’s 50 Number Ones. Let me just preface
this by saying that I live for and love country music. People
call me a country music jukebox. I have done crazy things just
to get into a Brooks and Dunn concert. My hometown, Mem-
phis, sometimes gets a bad “rap” for being the anti-country
music city. We are, after all, the birthplace of Three-Six-Mafia
and its offshoot Project Pat. The top-rated radio stations in
Memphis are our two hip-hop s'tations. So it’s probably a
wonder that I am obsessed with the likes of Keith Urban, Brad
Paisley, and Tim McGraw.

50 Number Ones is a phenomenal collection of George
Strait’s biggest hits, but I had no idea that he sang songs such
as “Oceanfront Property” and “You Know Me Better Than
That” (two of my favorites). If you’re in the marathon mood

for 51 great country songs (it includes his latest single, “I Hate
Everything”), this CD is a must have.

These days, many CDs sound alike. I bought a Lonestar
CD recently, and I swear that Track 1 sounded exactly like Track
10. We need variety. And by variety, I don’t mean all songs
being about beaches and margaritas. Thank you, Kenny
Chesney.

Strait’s CD offers listeners a variety of songs. There are

I the drinking songs that Alan Jackson does so well, there are

the cheesy love songs, and there are also the songs that make
you want to get up and do a Texas-two-step. After my 700 mile

drive back to-Lexington after Christmas break, I can attest that

this is a fantastic driving CD. After all, if George Strait “hangs
his hat in Tennessee,” he can’t be all that bad. ‘

And on a side note, please don’t thinkless of me for buy-
ing that Lindsay Lohan CD. I had too much to drink on New
Year’s Eve and was hung over when I bought it. Call it a severe
lack of judgment. ' 

Maggie Antonova
Victoria Childress
Jess Cobb
Erin Dibbern
Courtney Dolaway
Jamie Ferrell
Katelyn Finley
Christine Flood
Kathryn George
Christine Giordano
Katie Hager

Pi Beta Phi
Welcomes Our

Amazing New Angels!

Katie Huffman
Rachel Hull
Jennifer Iwata
Keri Klein
Vinghao Long
Lisa Martinez
Taylor McLachlan
Nicole Merrullo
Abri Nelson
Debby Newell
J eonghae Pak

Lauren Sapikowski
Jenny Schieltz

Amanda Tholke
p Kim Vandergrift

 

Tanya Patel
Jenny Plaster
Allison Rogers

Jill Roper

Kate Shellnutt
J o Squires

Ali Woodend  

 

 

  
 

PAGE 8

 Pia ‘   O

FMILYEDWARDS

AKl3&LlFEEDlTOR
EMAn;n)ovARmrM@wrun)U
MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2005

Napoleon Dynamite: the best thing to come out of Idaho since the potato

Now that 2004 has come to a close, I can
finally report on who was a winner and who
was a loser, or as I like to call them, 2004’s
spuds and duds.

Britney Spears definitely
made a run at dud of the millen-
nium by not only putting on a
few pounds, but getting
married. . .twice.

Now the girl that had it all
has been photographed grab-
bing her husbands “special area” on a bal-
cony. Britney has shown the world that any-
one can be the girl next door one day and a
social outcast the next.

While we are on good looking teenie pop
stars, I should mention Jessica Simpson. Jes-
sica found her
niche as a really
hot virgin ditz,
and while she
may not have the
V card, she hasn’t
lost the hotness
or the ditziness,
and two out of
three ain’t bad.
Spud for Jessica.

All younger siblings can relate to the pain-
ful life of Ashlee Simpson. I mean this poor
girl has never had anything handed to her and
has had to work for everything. She is get-

. POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE

 

ting by on pure talent and has never been
accused of riding her sister’s coattail. Even a
bad case of acid “reflex” couldn't keep her
down. Sorry, I don’t buy it.... Dud.

On campus this year, there
were plenty of duds and spuds to
give out. Ithinkwe all know who is
getting the first dud. . ..

That’s right, the administra-
tion. I could sit here and com-
plain about drinking and give
statistical proof that this will cause DUI’s, but
that’s not why they’re getting the dud. They
get the dud because they have successfully
driven a wedge between not only the faculty
and students, but also between some of the
alumni and parents who aren’t exactly yelling
in support of the
changes.

‘ The other
big Dud goes to
Panhellenic. All
year you force
sororities to ad-
here to ridiculous
rules regarding
freshmen, and
then when it is
your turn to shine and have formal rush, you
blow it. Panhel, it’s not you, it’s the system.
So until you change how freshmen girls rush,
you will have to deal with being called a dud.

“When you see me, give me wide berth...”

New sorority girl reflectsu

I’m sorry if my article is ridden with typos and
grammatical errors (though I am sure my wonderful
editors will spot them before the Ring-Tum Phi goes
to print). I am writing on less than two hours of
sleep. Surely you can forgive me if there is an extra
comma or a run-on sentence or two.

I tried to sleep last night. I really did. However,
the kitchen chairs in my sorority house, although
well padded, are not quite as

I was going to take a header straight down the
stairs in front of sixty sorority women.

Sound like an irrational fear? Oh, but it isn’t.
See, I»come from a long line of klutzes. Trace my
ancestors back a few thousand years and I guar-
antee you they were stubbing their toes on the
newly invented wheel. My great, great grandfa;
ther almost fell overboard off the Mayflower.

Alright, I really have no evi-

comfortable as my own bed. My THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL dence of that. But it sounds
back aches. I have a headache. I reasonable enough to me.
want to crawl into bed and stay KRISTINE EARLY Truly, Iamlike abull in

there for the rest of the day. How-

a china shop. I am glad that

ever, I am sitting in the radio station playing
Sernisonic to a nonexistent audience (Tune in to
“The K Spot” at 11 am on Saturdays. Yes, I know. I
am making a shameless plug. But I’m okay with
that.)

However, I am not complaining. Because last
night I may have slept on kitchen chairs, but I was
sleeping in a sorority house. My sorority house... I
am part of a sorority. I still can’t believe it. I imagine
something of this magnitude takes awhile to sink
in. I’m guessing that by the time I receive my di-
ploma I will have come to the terms with the fact
that I am now legitimately a srat girl. Yes, I have
already rocked the pearls for a full semester, but
now, I can wear them with a newfound pride.

Rush week is the worst week EVER. Yes, I’m
stating the obvious. I admit to spending many
nights tossing and turning under the covers, to
participating in full out freak out sessions with my
friends, and to needlessly analyzing my every move
all week. I’m not ashamed. Because I bet if you are
a freshman (or an awesome sophomore or junior)
you were doing the exact same things.

Normally, I am “pretty chill.” I try not to let
things get under my skin. But this week was prob-
ably the most stressful period of my life (Yes, more
stressful than exam week!) Why was I so scared?
Well, besides the obvious, frankly, I was afraid that

I’m not heavy because this limits the amount of
damage I can do. You know those teen movies in
which everything goes wrong for the heroine?
She trips in front of the entire school at gradua-
tion. She makes a fool of herself during a date due
to her severe lack of coordination. Well, I’m the
heroine. Unfortunately, Freddie Prince Jr. and
Topher Grace are too booked to make an appear-
ance in my movie.

Seriously, I can manage to trip over anything.
In fact, I can trip over absolutely nothing. And I do
so with a frequency that is truly disturbing. Were
you aware that it is possible to trip up the stairs?
Probably not. lt’s a skill, believe me.

Ice and I: we just don’t mix. No matter how
much I concentrate on walking, I always manage to
slip. Usually I can catch myself before I do a com-
plete nosedive. Usually. Maneuvering through the
d-hall is always a treat. I dread the day when I will
make a rnisstep and send my tray ﬂying. I’m sure it
will happen soon enough. Even door frames are my
enemy. I can’t seem to judge distance and I’ve
knocked my hip on them a few thousand times.

And did I mention that I am really good at
knocking over glasses? Especially if they’re full.
The number of times I’ve whacked my arm on a
piece of furniture... we’re talking the Guinness
World Book of Records here. By the way, why do

On the other
hand fraternities get
the big spud. Be-
ing fratty has never
been so cool. And
now that rush is all
over, it’s only going
to get better. Phase
2 has begun, so
let’s see which frat
gets kicked off cam-
pus this year.
Freshmen —
Congrats on making

it through rush, but I

    
 

this is where the

real fun begins.
Now it is time

for the spud and

But 2004 will

CIS

e map

dud of the year.
When it came down
to making the decision, it was a close one,
between Martha Stewart and the Jackson fam-
ily, but, in the end, Whacko Jacko helped pro-
pelled his family over the top. Janet had a
wardrobe malfunction and Mikey molested
little Mikey. And I don’t even want to know
what Tito has been up to lately.

But 2004 will always be known as the year
that put Idaho on the map. A movie came out
that was able to epitomize life in the Gem State.
And if you don’t know what movie I am talk-

they call it the funny bone? I don’t derive any sort
of amusement out of ramming my elbow against a
hard surface. It hurts. A lot. I’m not a masochist.

Boy did fate play a cruel trick on me. Not only
am I clumsy but it doesn’t help the situation that I
have fair skin and I bruise easily. I need only tap
against something and I turn black and blue.
In fact, as a klutz, I have lots of concerns. I have
never driven a car under the inﬂuence, nor do I
ever plan to. But I dread being put through a sobri-
ety test even when my blood alcohol level is a solid
point 0. Me, walk in a straight line? Haha. I waver
around like a drunkard before I even take a sip of
rum

However, there is a sad, sad truth to this story.
I am the most coordinated person in my family. Yes,
we’re a dangerous

COURTESY \!VWW.ASYNC.CALTECH.EDU/ ~M1KA / POTATO / POT ATO.j1>G

ing about yet, well, “Gosh! You’re such an
idiot.”

For a movie that cost roughly $400,000
to make, it didn’t do too badly, taking inde-
pendent theaters by storm despite the lack of
a plot line. ‘

Fans have gone Napoleon crazy and have
embraced Idaho as more than just the state
potatoes come from. Now it’s the state that
potatoes and Napoleon Dynamite come from.
A big Spud for the spud state.

pon her inherent clumsiness

nate genotype. What if the level of ineptitude only
gets worse with future generations? I fear for my
great grandchildren’s lives. Will they be able to
walk from one side of the room to the other without
destroying something?

When I was younger, I used to be mortified by
my own maladroitness, but I’ve learned to adapt.
I’ll never be Michelle Kwan or Keri Strug, so why
try? The only thing I can do is laugh at myself. And
boy, do I provide myself (and others) a great deal
of amusement.

So when you see me, give me wide berth. If

not, I may just run into you. That is, if I don’t trip .

first. I’ll be one of many wearing a srat shirt (be-
cause somehow I made it down the staircases with-
out incident!)

crew. I am even to
the point at which I
am beginning to
doubt Darwin’s
theory of “selection
of the fittest.” Cer-
tainly this level of
clumsiness is haz-
ardous to one’s
health. True, I’ve
never heard of any-
one stabbing his toe
to death, but if it’s
possible, I’m sure
one of my family
members could man-
age. I hope I don’t
pass these traits on
to my children.
However, I don’t
think even Michael
Jordan’s chromo-
somes could coun-
teract my unfortu-

C()(.‘RTES\'
\t\V'\‘( .EX[’LODlN(}1)()(;.CO.\l /
Muror‘ l(Tl;‘E.\' /

U‘ 3

Q What’s a fraternity that gives out 36 bids, can’t
have alcohol at their house or parties? A sorority

 

Q Did anyone else catch a glimpse of the IFC
rep’s Tater Todd’s this week?

Q I wonder which W&L administrator realized,
while viewing gay pornography, that Todd Tate
(aka Noah) was featured in the ﬁlm?

Q M1] the panty bandit from GL laundry room
please leave my Vickies alone?

Q How do you break up with someone you aren’t
dating?

Q I love egg nog. It’s definitely my favorite nog.
As opposed to, like, celery nog.

Q Can someone tell me what the uproar is about?
Last time I checked, underaged drinking was ille-
gal.

Q Who said that Britney Spears was a lyrical ge-
nius? She CLEARLY did not write the masterpiece
that is My Prerogative.

Q Is perpetual inebriation truly honorable? Dis-
cuss amongst yourselves

Q I ﬁnally met somebody who knows more lyrics
to country songs than me, her name is Erin Eliza-
beth Julius.

Q Hey, way to ﬁght a window in Davis dorm

Q Apparently the earth is still vibrating after the
9.0 earthquake that hit Indonesia in December

Q They’re trying to ban the words wardrobe mal-
function, izzle, and ﬂip—ﬂop!

Q Brad Pitt is single! So am I! We can make
babies now! It was meant to be!

Q Dawn Watkins, 40 ounces of malt liquor make
me want to tell you something...

Q Lisa Kudrow is a classy woman.

Q Sadly, Jude Law is engaged. So not hot.
Q Spineless isn’t sexy.

Q “I trust my daughter. That’s the only alcohol
policy I need." — Father of a Washington & Lee
student, upon receiving President Burish’s letter
on the alcohol policy.

Q Overheard Tear Night: “Oh, Ifm not about to
lose my virginity in the Kappa Alpha House.”

Q Also overheard Tear Night: “Do you want to
lick my candy cane?"

Q More Tear Night ridiculousness: “I’m sick of
looking so pretty.”

Q Wait, the question is, since when is breaking
the law honorable? Let me know.

Q The remote control is the ﬁlthiest object in
every hotel room.

Q A lot of girls at this school don’t wash their
hands after they go to the bathroom. It really dis-

turbs me.

Q Could the new srat pledge classes be any hotter?

Q No woman, or man, from Friends, was hot.
Courtney Cox and Jennifer Aniston were too
skinny.

Q When is it going to snow?

Q Hot is a hot adjective.

Q I hate snow.

Q Never drink two bottles of champagne over
New Year’s Eve.

Q Achy Breaky Heart is the worst ringtone EVER!

Q I took a walk of shame from the Sorority House
to Woods Creek on New Year’s day.

Q One week down, 11 to go!

Q After tear night, I hope you went to church
Sunday morning!

Q Two jobs too hot to handle for former IFC ad-
viser?

Q Colts beat Broncos! ! ! !!

Q Send your quick hits to phi@wlu.edu.

 

 

1

 

 

  
  

STEVE MARINos / THE RING-TUM PHI

 

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Left—wing political activist
Angela Davis delivered a politi-
cally charged speech in Lee
Chapel Sunday, criticizing Presi-
dent Bush, the prison system,
and other social institutions that
have been “shaped by racism.”

Delayed 45 minutes by a
snowstorm, Davis arrived in the
chapel to a standing ovation from
the racially diverse audience. Her
lecture, entitled “Civil Rights and
Human Rights: Future Trajecto-
ries,” is the first part of the
university’s celebration of Mar-
tin Luther King Jr. Day.

Davis attacked the armed
forces, prisons, and the justice

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

said. ,

In international politics,
Davis condemned the war in Iraq
as an abuse of the forces that had
formerly been used to promote
peace and justice. “If Dr. King
were alive today, he would prob-
ably be giving rousing and elo-
quent orations on the fact that
[those forces] are spreading war
and-torture and racism through-
out the world,” Davis said. The
actions she attacked included de-
tainment of immigrants, global
capitalism, destruction of civil
liberties, and torture.

“We live in the era of the
security state,” Davis said, call-
ing the United States a “so-called
democracy” that is “on the path
to self—destruc-
tion.”

“If Dr. King were alive

acceptance of the White House’s
resistance to public indignation.
Bush and his administration

steadily ignore the “rising tide” . ,

of opposition and resentment to-
wards America in this recent time,
according to Davis. In recent
trips to Europe, Davis was ap-
proached for explanations of
American popular opinion, such
as support for the death penalty
and political views.

“Many people can’t under-
stand that Bush was reelected.
They just can’t understand it,”
Davis said, stirring up laughter
and applause from the audience.

Davis suggested that the
dissatisfaction‘ with the United
States’ contribution to tsunami
relief could be
rooted in the

PHI

 

VoLUME€¥lll, No.18
MoNnAY,]ANUARY17,2005 .

No investigations

pending so far

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

After the first week of pledgeship, the Uni-
versity has not begun investigating any soror-
ity or fraternity for reports of hazing violations.

“It’s been an overall good week,” said
Margo McClinton, director of the University
Commons.

Members of the Inter-Fraternity Council
and Panhellenic Council patrolled all events
during recruitment week through Tear Night to
ensure students’ safety. Since then, the admin-
istration has encouraged students to use the
new online form to report incidents of hazing.

The fraternities’ new member educators
attended a meeting with the IFC and members of
administration. The group considered a list of

pledgeship activities and voted on whether or
not they considered it to be hazing.
The IFC also met with all freshmen men

Monday night to explain the University’s rules
on pledgeship more thoroughly and to discuss

the options available to hazing victims, includ- '

cnmemspmcn. Political activist laDavis be System asorganilationsthatdeal In par- belief that
the Celebration OfMardn Luther In Day gm more harshly by minorities than ticular, Davis today: he W0uld Probably be Bush’s pledge
by white citizens. She singled contended that giving rousing and eloquent of$350millionis

0 o 0 out the death penalty as a “pro— Saturday’s con— orations on the fact that equivalent to

  S found vestige of slavery,” point- viction of former _ _ _ the cost of main-
ing outtoatime when white men Abu Ghraib [military 21C'E1OI1S] 3.f€ taining the U.S.

Angels Davis’ sssssh is only the rust of Z§§“§I.'f3.Z‘§§3§Zdf§Z2 222.32. 53.22? SP‘“‘““8 W“ and t°“““ §’§fi°.§‘°.§’a‘y‘l."” inghazing.wlu.edu.

Several events organized by the Office of around 77 differentcrimes. Jr. reveals the and racism throughout In her

Multicultural Affairs to celebrate Martin Luther
King, Jr. Day.
Birthday cake and punch will be available

the evening, the Marketplace will offer its tradi-
tional celebratory dinner of fried chicken, sweet
potatoes, and collard greens.

At 7 pm, Associate History Professor
Theodore DeLaney will give a lecture in Lee
Chapel. -The speech, entitled “The Legacy of
Martin Luther King,” will be followed by a vigil

  
      

march to a reception in Evans Dining Hall.

in the Commons from 12 pm to 2 pm Monday. In ‘

   

  
 

  

    

  

/ling”

“Dreaming and Due

      

. _ . thsfrsséss
bl; 'sp3ay¢,c:¥&;13rtessage.:.e£aah mi-ti,c:‘s.:ia:'

In a question-and-answer
period following the lecture, she
discussed the current
administration's antagonism to
the voice of the public, including
demonstrations and mass move-
ments not unlike the ones fos-
tered by King.

“From my vantage point,
the Bush government is more re-
actionary than any government I
have ever seen in my life,” Davis

   

   

  

 
 
  
 

  
  

    
 
   

  was aritissemeticg ?‘azrd
  hasiidiscipiinecfbbth the broth-
and ‘N  involved with the ‘antissemetic

were, } ¢'qpa1ly»:'respensih2e,‘’.
J wehai?  pu.r;:s;aca‘:hem.s:

 illslrsspimss

current apathy
towards the de-
bacle at that fa-
cility. Saying
that it already feels like old news,
Davis wondered why there are
not more media analyses of the
situation that explore the origin
of the torture orders and their
prevalence. “The torture has still
happened,” she pointed out.

It could be a sign of public

    
  
   

the world.”
ANGEIADAVIS

years of politi-
cal involve-
ment, Davis has
been ﬁred, cen-
sured, and federally prosecuted
for her involvement with the
Communist Party, USA and her
support of prison abolition. She
is now a professor in the History
of Consciousness Department at
the University of California,
Santa Cruz.

Reports made on the hazing site are re-
viewed by Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students,
and Patrick Connolly, IFC Vice President. Sev-
eral reports were made this week, but none elic-
ited an investigation due to their unlikely nature

“Sometimes they’re going to be ludicrous.”
said Watkins.

McClinton agrees. “It’s carefully
screened. Dean Watkins is astute enough to be
able to sift through what’s a sincere report and
what’s not.”

In general, the newly-changed process
has received positive feedback.

WALKER WILLIAMS / THE RING—TUM PHI

KNOCKOUT. Senior Drew Heath has helped lead the resurgency of boxing on campus.

Boxing club making a comeback

BY BEN STINSON
STAFF WRITER

Friday night ﬁghts, rowdy crowds
gathered around the boxing ring, getting
ready to rumble, downing glasses of raw
egg yolks— none of these glorious images of
boxing can be found in Lexington, Virginia.
However, the sport of boxing has been gain-
ing more and more in popularity on campus.

While boxing enthusiasts do not ﬂock
to Lexington, boxing has existed in town in

throughout the rest of the 20”‘ century,
the only boxing that ever occurred in
Lexington was at VMI. Boxing had in
fact been a varsity sport at W&L up until
1930, when it was denounced as a dan-
gerous activity by the Generals’ football
coach and then barmed.

Due to such attitudes, insurance
problems, and the recent antics of Mike
Tyson, it has been difficult bringing box-
ing back to campus. Yet, three years
ago, boxing was approved as a recreat-

one shape or another for quite some time.

But starting in the Great Depression and

SEE BOXING ON PAGE 5

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR-IN-CI-IIEF

  

For the next few weeks,
students may encounter cameras
and film crews around campus.
The theater department, under
the direction of Professor Joseph
Martinez, begins ﬁlming an origi-
nal screenplay, “Dreaming and
Duelling” today.

, “The theater department
_ decided to increase the breadth
and knowledge of faculty by ven-
turing into a genre we have not
tried before,” said Nicole Risey,
’05, the ﬁlm’s production manager.

The ﬁve-person cast in-
cludes Adam West Lee, ’O7 Law,

‘ti

 

SAHAR KAMAII / HE G-TUM PHI

“DREAMING AND DUELING.” The theater department will begin ﬁlming
this original screenplay today.

Michael Wagoner, ‘O7 John
Bamwell, ‘05, Sarah Orvin, ‘O5 and
Paige Smith, ‘06.

Preparation for “Dreaming
and Duelling” began last year
when the screenplay was written.
Preproduction work such as learn-
ing how to use cameras and fmd—
ing locations, began over the
summer.

Professor Joseph Martinez,
who cast the film, held
screentests in October. Between
25 and 30 people auditioned for
the ﬁve parts that were cast.

“It was new for most
people, no one had done a
screentest,” said Risey. “Every-

thing we’re doing is new for most
people at W&L.” A

The actual ﬁlming will take
place between January 17 and
January 30. In addition to the ﬁver-
person cast, the Washington and
Lee fencing team and cheerlead-
ers will appear in the ﬁlm.

Extras will be required for
some scenes, so if you see the
crew filming, talk to Nicole Risey
about being an extra.

Shooting will take place in
Doremus Gym, in the Marketplace,
in the University Commons living
room and in the apartments in
Davidson Park.

. Throughout this term the

T heate department ventures into ﬁlm as it begins filming original screenplay today

13-person crew will be doing
“pick-ups” or reshooting scenes
if necessary.

The post-production edit-
ing of the ﬁlm will take place this
winterterm.

“Editing takes between two
and ﬁve hours for every 60 sec-
onds of on-screen film,” said
Risey.

Both Professor Martinez
and students will be involved in
editing, “furthering the educa-
tional value of the movie,” Risey
said.

“Dreaming and Duelling”

premiers May 6 and 7 in the Uni-_

versity Commons Theater.

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005

1. Beta will not be returning to

campus next year — FACT
While Beta’s suspension was only for one year, W&L requires
the support of the fraternity’s national headquarters to re—colonize.
“They would need their national organization’s support [to
re—co1onize] which, it is our understanding, they do not have,” Dawn
Watkins, Dean of Students, said.

2. Alpha PhiAlpha is moving into Beta ’s
house next year — FICTION

News that Beta would not be returning sparked the rumor that
Alpha Phi Alpha, the newly formed African-American fraternity would
move into Beta’s house. This claim is not true.

“There is NO veracity to the claim about anyone or anything
occupying the former Beta Theta Pi house,” Watkins said. “No re-
quest has been made. No request has been granted.”

3. SPE is re-colonizing at
W&L soon — FACT

For a fraternity to colonize at W&L, they must go through a
three step process. First, they need the support of the university
faculty, administration, and Inter—Fratemity Council, second, the sup-
port of the alumni housing corps, and third the support of the na-
tional headquarters.

Sigma Phi Epsilon made a presentation to the Student Advi-
sory Committee and faculty, who approved SPE’s return to campus

 

 

contingent on four factors. The first factor is a document of a plan by
April 30. At that time it will be known if SPE is planning on returning
in the fall of 2005 or 2006.

After one year back on campus, SPE would have to undergo a
review by the SAC. Then, the SAC decides whether or not SPE can
stay on campus permanently.

4. Delt and AT O are coming to
W&L soon — FICTION

Delta Tau Delta, the fraternity that used to occupy the Intema—
tional House, and Alpha Tau Omega have expressed interest in start-
ing chapters at W&L according to Margo McClinton, Director of the
Commons.

However, they have not gone through the three step process
to get approved. ’

“It’s common [for fraternities] to ask preliminary questions and
make initial inquires,” Kevin Weaver, Interim Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life, said.

Weaver said that it would be hard to build new houses. That
process would be several steps down the road and would be “ad-
dressed at the appropriate time.”

5. Panhellenic is adding a sixth srat that
will be built next to Kappa - FICTION

\V1th sorority quota at a recent high and girls still falling through
rush, rumor circulated quickly that another sorority may colonize
here.

But Panhel has not had a discussion about adding another
sorority. According to Kristen Powell, Assistant Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life, Panhel would have to make a motion to
have all five sororities Vote on bringing in another sorority, and then,

   

if it passed, expansion could begin.

“Looking at physical numbers, there is a cause for concern and
thought,” Powell said.

When W&L originally planned the layout of the sorority
houses, there were six houses in the plan, even though only five
were built. Each of the houses was built to hold 80 women. However,
with the new pledge classes, some of the sororities are now up to 140
women. V

“For now, though, Panhellenic has no official plans to begin
researching or discussing the colonization of a sixth sorority,” Karlyn
Gold, President of Panhellenic, said.

6. A new srat would take their first
pledge class from the top 10 girls of
the other sororities bid lists — FICTION

This expansion rumor is not true according to Powell. Recruit-
ment would be the same as when Kappa Delta came to campus in
1997. Based on this year’s numbers, the new sorority would have a
quota of 60, while the other ﬁve sororities would have a quota of 28

O or 29, approximately ten less than this year.

7. The sixth srat would deﬁnitely
be Tri-Delt— FICTION

Powell said that this rumor has been circulating since she was
a student at W&L. No one sorority has a guarantee at getting the
sixth slot. Interested sororities would have to apply and Panhel
would make their decision based on the applications.

-House > D

 

sponsored by

The Washington and Lee University
Community is invited to the
John W. Elrod Birthday Celebration

Thursday, January 20, 2005
10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Elrod Commons Living Room

An Informal ongoing program of live music,
vocal entertainment and a short video
about John Elrod will be showcased

Light refresments will be served
Campus Activities Staff  

Elrod Review Committee
General Activities Board

 

 

 

' "  iriiinity would be the best birthday present

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005

S3i;ii§“i3Tii)ED1TOR1AL

Cross the Creek...

As we celebrate John W. Elrod’s
birthday in our John W. Elrod University
Commons, we pause to reﬂect on the
goals of the Common living space. Is it
really a place for all to gather? Or do
the undergraduates claim the Commons?
We at the Phi have observed that the law
students don’t use the Commons. Sadly,
the Creek still creates a chasm between
the law and undergraduate students.
Here we make suggestions for Univer-

sity unity.

- We should give the law school
crowd an incentive to hang out with us.
This could mean a Law School discount
at the coop or a special at the bookstore.

° More attention for intramural
sports, such as'last week’s dodgeball
tournament, would boost overall campus
relationships.

° Student leaders should reach out
to their counterparts at the law school
for advice, support and involvement. The
law students were involved in college
activities before us; they can lend us their
experience.

° Keep in touch with your under-
graduate friends who cross the Creek for
their J .D.

Joint classes for undergraduates and .
law students are offered; try to take one
and get to know your fellow Generals
across the Creek.

Remember, Elrod’s main vision for
the Commons was as a place where ev-
eryone, undergraduate, faculty and law
students, in the University community
could come together.

Coming together as a campus com-

we could present to President Elrod in
his memory.

te of the Week

 

"Ihe mother is doing ﬁne.”

~ Spokesperson for the 67-year-old
Romanianwomanwhogavebirthtoadaughter
thisweek. V

 

 PHI

Editor in chief Erin Elizabeth Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauder-man

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor
Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Directors

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen
David Seifert

Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara _
Stephen Lipscomb
Amanda Tholke
Vanessa Amess
David Kronenfeld

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Distribution Dir.
Copy Editors

 

 

CAIEYANDERSON
OPINIONS Eonor

EMAL-ANDnstNO@wwn)U

PAGE 3

Clubs deserve more attention from students

Since most students enter W&L with a solid background of club
participation and often leadership, it is hardly possible to forget the
days of long, annoying, mandatory club meetings, mandatory “dona-
tions” of teddy bears and canned goods, and strict attendance poli-
cies for club-sponsored activities. Yet, after all of the time spent dedi-
cating one’s life to extracurricular activities, there

member of a particular club, and to highlight that fact

on college applications. Club membership, in most

cases, was only available for the hardest working and most dedicated.
This was due in large part to the serious requirements for maintaining
membership. .

However, at W&L, and perhaps many other universities across
the nation, membership in a club is contingent upon... well, typically,
nothing. As in high school, clubs are open to any interested stu-
dents, but, unlike high school, there are very few, if any, requirements
for maintaining membership. Most clubs highly suggest that members
attend meetings and participate in activities, but there are no reper-
cussions for a lack of participation. Technically, a student can be a
member of nearly every club on campus, yet never participate.

With an average of 23.52% of graduates from 1999 to 2003, a fig-
ure found in a report from Career Services, pursuing some type of
advanced studies, it is necessary to question the fairness of the club
system. For roughly a quarter of graduating students, participation in
clubs is important for post—graduate applications. Yet, if membership
holds no qualifications, the dignity associated with club participa-

Lower national drinking age to nineteen

tion decreases. Thus, those members that actually dedicate much of
their time to club leadership often reap fewer benefits towards post-
graduate education than they would have in a more rigid system. In
addition, if a club has very few reliable_ members, it is likely that all
of the work will be placed upon those few. Thus, it is not fair to the

club or its most active members to be stripped of ef-

was at least one positive award that most people INTRODUCING fort from the club’s supposed members.
. sought for, whether they will admit it or not. Ulti— I  Yet, a more relaxed club system also includes ben-
mately, the benefit was to be able to call oneself a BECKY LEMQINE ‘()8 efits as well. Since leadership in a club is a voluntary

effort, a student who plays a large role in the club
may be able to impress post—graduate institutions
with his or her high level of will power and commitment. Plus, if
other universities have a similar system, why should the club sys-
tem here deny students any advantages that other institutions of-
fer? The club system at W&L also allows more students to partici-

pate. Many people simply are too involved with academics, sports,’

jobs, and other activities to really focus on clubs, but being a mem-
ber of a club without any particular obligations allows them to par-
ticipate when they have spare time in their busy schedules. It also
ensures that those who do actively participate have a genuine in-
terest in the club and are not participating solely due to compulsion.
So, with these perspectives in mind, should W&L clubs make an
effort to demand more of their members? While the answer to that is
ultimately based upon the discretion of each club, it seems that a few
very basic requirements could satisfy the demand for fairness, yet
keep clubs a manageable part of W&L student life. After all, if a stu-
dent cannot participate for at least two hours a semester, for example,
how can they, with a good conscience, call themselves a member?

    

photo murtesy of arizonddu

WHEN I D.I.P., YOU D.I.P., WE D.l.P. The minimum age of 21 is both unfair and impractical; how long will it be before government authorities recognize it?

"The ridiculous amount of heat being gen-
erated by the alcohol issue involves much
casting of blame in various directions. The
basic problem, I feel, is not a result of the
actions of the administration, the frats, or
anyone else on this campus; it is a result of
the singularly preposterous minimum age of
21 for drinking. ‘

Although abstainers
like myself are not a part
of it, the “alcohol culture”
is present not only at Wash-
ington and Lee, but in the
nation at large. I’d be willing to bet a sig-
nificant percentage of my net worth that most

people have their first drink in high school, '

or earlier. Most of this, as you likely know
from personal experience, goes on under the
table, away from the watchful eyes of stem
authority figures, and thus tends to be fairly
dangerous, given the inexperience of those
involved. And, of course, it only gets worse
once a young, impressionable drinker
reaches college, although W&L is fairly
unique among colleges for its particular
freshman alcoholic experience.

There are, of course, the usual arguments
of prematurely banishing things of an illicit
nature from a young person’s life— the mere
illegality of the act increases interest in it,
and so forth. And these are, largely, valid.
But there is a positive example of the ben-

MODERATE’S MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

efits that can be gleaned from a lowered‘
drinking age, and I think that even the most
conservative of us can finally agree that we
should look to Europe for an example. In
France, for example, the drinking age is 16,
and it is almost always the parents who in-
struct adolescents in responsible drinking;
most parents informally “intro-
duce” their kids to alcohol at
an earlier age than this, and the
result is a nation where alco-
holism is under control, and
. where responsible drinking is
present to a much higher degree than in the
United States.

Of course, most voters in the United
States would be appalled by the prospect of
a minimum age of 16, as it’s automatically
assumed that this would lead to a world
where high school juniors would show up
for class staggeringly drunk (as sometimes
occurs anyway, at least in my high school).
But I think there’s a definite argument to be
made for a drinking age of, at most, 19.

Why 19? Most parents would go into
hysterical fits at the prospect of high school
students drinking, so the age of 19 avoids
this entirely, except for high school super
seniors, who are truly a special case. More
to the point, this age would resolve the in-
consistency presented by our governments
at both the state and federal level— that 18-

20 year olds are smart enough tovote, smart’
enough to make the decision to fight and die
for their country, but not smart enough to
handle alcohol. In actual fact, the govern-
ment, recognizing this fact, has it on the
books that many “underaged” members of
the military are allowed to drink while they
serve, but this does nothing but reinforce
my point.

' The age of 21 encourages recklessness
and dangerous, absuive use of alcohol. It
discourages the development of responsible
drinking habits, and is the true root of
W&L’s present debate over alcohol policy;
the students are protesting the obvious in-
justice of the minimum age of 21, while the
administration, which seems to recognize this
injustice, is still bound to see upheld the
laws of the Commonwealth.

Sadly, this is one of those issues that is
likely to be tabled for a long time, as the indi-
viduals most likely to advocate a lower drink-
ing age (18-20 year olds) are the least likely
to be active about it, since they only have a
few years at most before it becomes a moot
point. Thus, nothing significant is likely to
happen on this front for sometime, and rather
than storming the halls of their state capitals
demanding change, 18-20 year olds are likely
to continue mildly shaking their fist, think-
ing of the problem as an impermanent one,
and leaving it for the next generation.

 

the warning.

you see at the bottom of an abstract painting.

Fried Chicken- T Is the debate over whether fried chicken is appropriate
on Dr. King’s birthday not the strangest you have ever heard? I, person-
ally, am for fried chicken, because it is delicious.

Those huge, brown, ﬂying roaches- T I overheard one of them the other
day, apparently, they have an extraordinarily complex plot for world domi-
nation that somehow hinges on control of Lexington, with Newcomb Hall
as their headquarters. It was way over my head, but I thought I’d spread

Alumni Weekend- -1» I wonder if alums will have to wear wristbands.

President Burish’s signature-  At the end of that pamphlet criticizing
the Princeton Review’s methodology. It looks like one of those signatures

Jps and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Facebo0k— ‘*"'? Who else is waiting for Facebook: The Citadel?

is dead.

Michelle Kwan-"”'”’ VV1ns her ninth straight U.S. skating title, but I bet
she has nightmares about silver medals.

West Virginia- 1‘ The citizens of West Virginia can now sleep safer in
their beds knowing that their governor has just received his black belt.

PLO-  Palestinian officials say it’s time to end violence against Israel,
but a- I wonder if they mean it, and b— will hard-liner Israelis reciprocate?

Dr. King- T

Angela Davis- ‘T She fought the law and SHE won.

NHL- L Players’ Association tells players to accept European job offers
for this year, and to start looking for jobs for NEXT year. American hockey

Lip Sync- 4"“? I say we get that British judge from American Idol, to go
along with the gong this year. -

W.- T Acknowledges, finally, that there are problems in Iraq, and with
world opinion of the U.S., and sets forth some basic ideas for solving these
problems. Good that he’s abandoned his creepy unfailing positivism.

“He found the light in the darkest hour, and the strength
for speaking truth to power.”

 

 

    

PAGE" 4

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005



It’s the remix to tuition- rising costs
of W&L undoing one of its greatest

  

advantages over other universities

' i be

BLING. Cost of using these buildings for four years- $120k. We’ll soon lose our place as a “best bargain.”

Recently, the student body has been
abuzz with complaints about how Washing-
ton and Lee is changing, or how cherished
traditions are being lost. For instance, the
hot topics last year were saving Spring Term
and Buffalo Creek, which for the record are
not in reality time—honored
traditions. Spring Term
didn’t even start until 1970,
but that is beside the point.
Now, the issue is the new (or
should I say old but only lately enforced)

alcohol policy, as well as the supposed-

“Swarthmorification” and “branding” of the
institution we hold dear. I’ll leave these is-
sues for another writer to tackle. I only wish
to point out that one recent trend is not get-
ting nearly enough student attention.

I am not afraid of change. I think it is
usually something extremely healthy, natu-
ral, and necessary. I love how our school is
evolving and progressing. Each incoming
class is arguably smarter and more talented
than the previous. We are getting more di-
verse in terms of backgrounds, geography,
ethnicity, and even political identifications.
And our administration is rightly becoming
concerned with negative Princeton Review
rankings. I believe they are perfectly right
to want our school to be accurately and
positively represented. Yet, some changes
are not for the best.

Finally, I get to my point. One of the
major selling points, no pun intended, of
W&L has always been money. We have
consistently been high on Fiske’s Best Buy
list. So what in the heck has been going on
recently? Has someone high up decided
that raising tuition to follow the national
trend makes us somehow appear competi-
tive? Everyone, I’m sure, has heard the ru-
mors that tuition increases are really de-
signed to put us on the same tier as over-
priced schools like Duke, Dartmouth, and
the Ivy’s. But if this is true, could it really
be in our best interest? One of the main rea-
sons I came here was that for such an aca-
demically strong school, tuition was actu-
ally reasonable. This year, tuition is a stag-
gering $25,300. Four years ago, the figure
was much closer to $15,000. You do the
math. At this rate it’ll cost $38,000 to at-
tend in no time at all.

And don’t even get me started on text-
books. I send my parents a guiltyoemail ev-
ery time a new semester of book purchases
rolls around. Even novels (I’m an English
major) have gotten out of control in the pric-
ing department. Some classes have upwards
of ten books at fifteen bucks a pop. And
they aren’t even hard—covers! And you
know you’ll only get like $.45 cents on sell

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘07

back day.

Maybe this is me being naive but I
don’t feel like a university needs to be reap-
ing a profit from college students trying to
be thrifty while they attempt to build their
new lives. After all, no one wants to use
their first real—world, work-
ing years to pay off col-
lege debt. We may have an
undeserved reputation as
being a spoiled, rich,
country club college but that doesn’t mean
tuition and other costs should be a reflec-
tion of that stereotype. So if students want
a relevant issue to unite behind, make’ it
this one. After all, saving money is an is-
sue that everyone can agree on. 5

W&L Costs: Rising Tide

2004-2005 Costs

Tuition-
$25,300

Total Fees-
$260

Technology-
$200 '

Room
(Single)-
$3,650

Room
(Double)-
$2,375

Board-
$3,600

Books

(approx)-
$400

Total-
(w/ single)-
$33,410

Happy New Year’s— How
you can really improve
yourself for 2005 and beyond

With every new year, new beginnings
are expected. Many people make resolutions
for self improvement. While I have nothing
against striving to achieve more, I’m not
sure that doubt and criti-

the fine line between reading and skimming

assignments, and rushing through last

minute papers. But for now, the novelty of

classes contributes to the exciting freshness
of the new year.

Cism make the b6StI1CW S€1f- IN THE IRONS Although there is no actual
imag€- 111 Spite Of this nega- ‘ proof of this, it seems to me
tivity, the new year brings a CARISSA SHIPLEY  that the blossoming of spring

lot of great changes. As

freshmen go through rush for the first time,
they get a new identity and a house full of
instant friends. Well, maybe this is a bit of
a generalization, but you get the picture.
Of course the sophomores get to see the
other side of rush for the first time. I was
quite surprised to see the new side of my
sisters. Tears of frustration, tears of joy,
and tears of stress all gave me a clearer pic-
ture of who my sisters are and how they
feel about sorority life. Of course, I wasn’t
left unaffected either. The barrage of ques-
tions from freshman really made me dig deep
and bring sorority into reality. I nei,/er re-
ally considered the sorority as a art of
myself, I always just viewed it as an activ-
ity. Now, I realize how easily greek life can
not just social life and academic life, but
also how it changes your personality and
perspectives.

In addition to all the new that greek life
brings along, the new year also brings new
classes. I start every class with a renewed
enthusiasm. I read, highlight, outline, take
notes, re-read, and treat every lecture like
its filled with vital information. Don’t worry
too much though, this scholasticism will
soon turn into cramming for tests, walking

A U.S. President’s Progress 

This story was written by Sam Langholz,
‘O2, and originally ran on Oct. 30, 2000. On the
near-eve of the President’s second inauguration,
we present this as a reﬂection on the goals of his

first administration.

On Election Day, we will have an opportu-
nity to choose between two candidates with two
very-different visions for America. Governor
George W. Bush has presented a clear vision over
the past two years of where he wants to lead our
nation. He believes that we, the people, instead
of the federal government, are the most qualiﬁed
to make deci-
sions about
our finances,
our children’s
e d u c a t i o n ,
and our
healthcare.

Bush un-
derstands from his past six years as the Gover-
nor of Texas, the second-largest state in the na-
tion, that the Federal government has not been
successful in solving many of the problems fac-
ing society, and that it has in fact been a hin-
drance to the innovations that he and many of
his fellow Republican governors have attempted.

Unlike some hard-right conservatives, how-
ever, Bush doesn’t merely want to reduce gov-
ernment, leaving problems unsolved. He is a com-
passionate conservative who wants to encour-
age innovation at the state and gederal levels to
come up with exciting ways to improve our edu-
cation and healthcare systems so that “no child
is left behind.”

Bush is economically responsible, and will
reduce the Federal deficit much further than
Clinton has been capable of. He will do this by
encouraging the economy through reducing
taxes for all people, not just targeted groups, so
that average Americans can improve the quality
of life for their families.

He also acknowledges the important role that
the.Federal government plays in ensuring our
national defense. Over the past eight years, the

  Phi Quick Poll

“Have you, during your time on the W&L campus, used illegalidrugs at least once?”

Yes
38%

No
62%

58 students polled, 31 male, 27 female. Poll has 90% conﬁdence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Phi quick polls are conducted via a random selection of Washington and Lee students, using the telephone directory.

He will, of course, restore honor and dignity to the
White House. He understands that we need a leader in A
the White House of whom all Americans can be proud,

and we all WILL be proud.

relationships has come early
as well. Out of the four of us in my apart-
ment, the number of girls in relationships has
gone from one to three. Sisters and high
school friends have even been bursting with
news in unusual numbers. The weather even
seems to be celebrating the new year with
unusual spring-like warmth. So what is it
about the turning of a number that makes
such noticeable changes in life? Is it really
the new year or is it a new outlook inspired
by resolutions? Can wonderful change re-
ally come from self-doubt?

Carissa Shipley can be reached at
shipleyc@wlu.edu. Letters to the
Editor should be directed to
phi@wlu.edu

military has been stretched to the breaking point
by overextension in too many places throughout
the world. Bush will work to improve morale in the
military, and to return our armed forces to the
strength that they held during the Persian Gulf
War, and he will rebuild our strenous relations with
our allies, which have for the most part deterio-
rated over hte past eight years.

He will, of course, restore honor and dignity
to the White House. He understands that we need
a leader in the White House of whom all Ameri-
cans can be proud, and we all WILL be proud of
him

It would be
nice if we could
contrast this
clear vision for
the future with
its Democratic
“equivalent.”
The Vice President, however, lacks a clear and con-
sistent agenda. Is he the populist ﬁrebrand that
will ﬁght for the little guy against the evils of big
business, or a “New Democrat” supporting busi-
nesses to help the economy? Is he a campaign
finance reform crusader, or the author of that
phrase “no controlling legal authority” in de-
scribing why it was ok to fundraise in the White
House?

Not only is Gore incapable of making up his
mind about his vision for America, but he has a
habit for exaggeration and statements which turn
out later to be untrue. The invention of the
intemet, for instance. How can we trust the high-
est office in the land to someone without the moral
core and backbone to lead beyond polls and focus
groups?

The choice is clear in my mind, and I en-
courage you to join me in casting my vote next
week for Governor George W. Bush, the next
President of the United States, who will lead us
into a peaceful and prosperous 21st century. And
if you’re a true blue liberal that just can’t ‘bring
yourself to vote Republican, vote for Ralph
Nader- at least he has some principles.

 

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 1'7, 2005

PAGE 5

  

' Boxing club

making progress

FROM THE FRONT PAGE

—ional sport at W&L, and boxing has
been growing ever since, despite a rough
start. '

Drew Heath, a senior and this
year’s treasurer of the boxing club, was
a freshman when boxing returned to cam-
pus. He joined the following year and
recalled what the conditions were like.

“The equipment wasn’t that great.
When you hit the heavy bags, they
leaked stuffmg,” said Heath. Over the
past three years, though, the club has
obtained much better equipment due to
fund raisers such as Tee shirt sales; and
while a boxing ring carmot be currently
found in the Doremus Gym, Heath hopes
that will change soon.

This year the boxing club has two
dozen members, who are placed in two
categories: ﬁghters and trainers. There
are six ﬁghters and it is only these six
who train for competition.

“The ﬁghters go through a month
of intense training, and they’ll go
through another two months of training
along with working on technique before
they’ll actually put on the gloves.”

As for the others who do not ﬁght,
they are there simply for the training-
but it’s not just any training. Boxing is a
year round activity from October through
April, and practices are four nights a
week, Monday through Thursday for

about two hours. Both male and female
participants go through a circuit of ﬁve
to nine exercises, ranging in skills,
strength, cardiovascular, and technique.
The training is so effective, Heath says,
that many varsity athletes participate in
boxing during the off season to stay in
shape. Practices are held on the ﬁfth
ﬂoor balcony on the Doremus Gym.
Heath, a former soccer player, notes that

’ there is quite a difference between box-

ing and other sports.

“Because [boxing]’s an individual
sport, you can go at your own pace. You
alone control the outcome. Whatever
you put in, you will get out.”

Most Division I schools and mili-
tary academies) including VMI) host
boxing as a club sport. Boxing, how-
ever, is not governed by the NCAA, but
instead the NCBA, the National Colle-
giate Boxing Association. It is a self
regulated body, and is non-school affili-
ated.

While the boxing club has not at-
tended any fights this year so far, Heath
hopes that the club will send at least
two boxers to the NCBA national meet
this April. As for next year the club
wished to attend the VMI Classic and a
meet in Pennsylvania as well. Even witli—
out the ﬁghts, though, Heath says that
it has been a great year, considering no
other participants have had any prior
experience in boxing.

For love of the game

Being a freshman hasn't kept basketball
player Greg Bienemann from shining

  

SAHAR KAMAU / RING-TUM PH]

BY KATHRYN KRALL I
STAFF WRITER

VVrth incredible shooting accu-
racy, powerful rebounding, and a
dominating presence in the paint,
Greg Bienemarm is an indispensable
player for the Generals. After a long
winless drought to start the season,
Bienemann realized that although he
was only a freshman, it was time to

 

step his game up to the next level.

He proved that not only was he
good at filling the center and clean-
ing up inside, but that he could also
be the go-to man for the team. At
Washington and Lee’s home touma—
ment, Bienemann scored a career high
27 points on 10-of-14 shooting. His
efforts lifted the team to the first vic-
tory of the season and sent them to
the tournament championship game
in which they defeated Washington
College.

Greg Bienemarm has been play-
ing basketball for as long as he can
remember. His father introduced him
to the game and instilled within him a
love for basketball. “My mentor is
my dad,” Bienemann said, “he always
supported me and was hard on me
when he needed to be. I share his
love for the game.”

At Chatham high school,
Bienemann played soccer, lacrosse,
and basketball. He chose to con-
tinue basketball in college because,
“that was the sport I loved the most

and I was best at.” He was named
the conference player of the year and
was an all—state selection as a senior.
W&L was his choice because of
strong academics as well as atlilet-
ics. '

At 6 foot 6, Bienemann’s
strength is ﬁnishing around the bas-
ket. He plays forward and center and
employs quick footwork and a strong
court sense to intimidate his oppo-
nents and awe his fans.

Besides scoring, Bienemann
consistently contributes less ﬂashy
but just as essential elements. \V1th
such a commanding player control-
ling the center, W&L can count on
hirri snagging the rebound and set-
ting up second and third opportuni-
ties when the first shot doesn’t fall.

In addition, Bienemann provides
intirriidating defense that includes
both speed and power. His statis-
tics are proof of his all-around

A athleticism. He regularly posts steals

and assists which contribute to the
success of the team as a whole.

Although he is young, Greg
Bienemann leads the team in scor-
ing, which signals that we can expect
to see more highlights in the coming
years from both Bienemarm and the
W&L basketball program.

 

to March 1.

41 B»-«5 1 6-7748.
/

and one-to-one academic advising.

if you or someone you Know wants to pursue a career as a
doctor, apply during the application period of September 1

 

 Week in Sports
     ,     Vvednesday    

7:00 -- Men’s Basketball
at Bridgewater

7:00 —- Women’s

Fnday

Basketball vs. S. Virginia

TBA —- Track at Dickinson

  Reality:

For more information, visit www.jhu.edulpostbae or call

all‘ G°V’3%%. 

   

Sunday

2:00 —- Men’s Basketball
vs. R-MC

 

1% WAAAAA 

“I don*t l1ax»*e the

The Johns Hopkins Posts-BaccalaureatePremedical Program
prepares college graduates with stmngsanademic records to
apply to the best medical schools by giving them the

personal 33-.8“¥'ItlQ.I,"'i, the necessary science andm

reqitired '{.‘.t?)¥;1§’S€?5 for
medical school.

 

T ;k
1: 1’ 1;

Pnst-Ba;:salaureate
Premedical Program

 

PAGE 6

Farewell,

. MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 20(l5


seniors!

Swimmers say their emotional
goodbyes S to older teammates

BY JOHN BOVAY
SPORTS \X/RrTER

The W&L men’s and women’s swim-
ming teams were both successful in their
ﬁnal home meet of the year Saturday
against the Bullets of Gettysburg. The
men won their meet, 141-64, while the
women improved upon last year’s result
against Gettysburg, losing by the same
score, 141-64. The meet was highlighted
by the Generals’ wins in both 200-yard
medley relay races.

The women, who lost this meet last
year by over 100 points, did not expect
to claim victory this year, but were ex-
cited to enlist the strength of freshmen
such as Jess Cobband Amy Roberson,
both of whom swam on the winning 200-
yard medley team along with sophomore
Abbie Sauter and junior Kristine Holda.
Other highlights for the women’s team
included Sauter’s victory in the 200—yard
breaststroke and Cobb’s second-place
ﬁnish in the 200 backstroke.

The men came into the meet with a
very different perspective. They claimed
victory over the Bullets last year and
were expecting a close meet. Highlights
for the men included swims by Captains
Chris Colby (senior in the 200 ﬂy) and
junior Clark Barrineau’s win in the 500

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  

=?s,=.¥¢:*:t.»s:>t:.<>: ﬂimiﬁéf .»5<'w<i.'£="’i"‘«?.~§f"%‘»'! J» M awarsi

'”’?£l.¥3f  §ac»;{e;>;§1:e;i h'§=’ Kim ¥.”:.:am" " '

freestyle. He broke the ﬁve-minute mark
for the first time in regular season. Other

important races for the men were .

Colby’s win in the 200 free and sopho-
more Michael Ginder’s wins in the 50-
and 100-yard freestyle races. The mens’
team is psyched to claim a second cham-
pionship title under Coach Joel
Shinoﬁeld. _

It was a sentimental night for both
teams, as each loses three seniors this
year: captains Laura Westerman, Tasia
Fisher, and Chris Colby; and Suzie
LaFleur, Michael Lee, and Phil
Walotsky. They have been committed
to improving the program and making
working out fun. They’re all wonderful
people with a lot to look forward to. The

team members will deﬁnitely miss them _

more than words can express. The team
celebrated the seniors’ commitments to
the team with family after the meet with
a six-lane cake ‘(one for each senior.)

The teams have only two more
regular-season meets before ODACs,
which both teams have dominated for
the past 11 years. Sophomore Swimmer
Sarah Bloom writes that, “Of course, we
owe our success to the wonderful coach
we have and the cohesiveness of the
team. Training isn’t always fun, but our
teammates always are.”

 

 

 

  

KELLY Boss / Sr PHGRAPH

Individual players wrestled well even though» the team as a whole was not as successful.

Sataloff shares success withteam

BY SARAH BLOOM
SPORTS WRITER

Freshman Jessie Sataloff led the
Generals at the W&L Wrestling Invi-
tational Saturday afternoon. The
team ﬁnished 7 of 8 teams. Several
teams attended the annual touma-
ment, including several strong Divi-
sion I and H teams. Local team, VMI
was in attendance.

Sataloff won the General’s only
title in the 174—pound weight class,
with a 2-0 record in his individual
matches.

“I did not think about who I was

wrestling, but what I had to do to

have a strong match,” said J essup
of his win over top-seeded Matt
Smith of Washington and Jefferson.
Smith, a senior, won the tournament
and also claimed the outstanding
wrestler award last year.

“His (J essie’s) work ethic in the
practice room and discipline outside
of it is unparalleled,” said Captain
Max Courtney of his new freshman
teammate.

Still, Sataloff diverts his success
to the team: “Wrestling is as much a
team sport as it is an individual sport,

_ and we have the makings for a very

strong team.” .

The men fell behind their com-
petition in early rounds. “The team
ﬁnish was mildly disappointing,” said
Courtney, “we couldn’t recover in
consolations.” Still, most of the Gen-
erals were able to claim success indi-
vidually in at least one match.

The team will face Ursinus, 13"‘,
and McDaniel in the coming weeks.
“We have a tough stretch of dual
meets coming up,” said Sataloff, “but
I think the team is well prepared and
I will do my best to help out wher-
ever I can.”

 

_ the east coast.

‘ ".vi’"rsi§-e;r.:x2-r:::t<-47t?;s:2 $u“3*a'i§l'cfD .“x,?$é§~f,%<”:&1ri§i‘iVx o:¢.§‘~é.‘s:t~fi%;::a anti "
:2 ii a»‘E§€%€"r';. ma~;ar"§ anaa$.rm.<>e:I érgma Raeem iénizrzra ,,
mamxzwa waitéctrnrnf, M32’ -23% mi. :11?-ls.-c»'.:.i'x_4.x grostixad-:2  ~§v~‘¢z*.>4*. m:.::ir.«m ?«%‘.~3d:   M‘  e-r»’ix~.:r._ ggemérr. s'33‘.“.n

ho Needs  
  Degree in Media?

If you want to pnapare yourself for a pasiticwn of 

in  mania er the arts, gnu’?! need a graduate
degraa. At Regent i.iaiver3ity’s scrim! nf Cnmrnunicatinn &
thaﬁsrta ynuﬁi  with mrrant national media profession»
sis in we of the truest tachaolaasgicaliy advanced Eaciiitias an

Visit our Vrrgaiia Beach Catriona diuring Fmvinw Wuknmi
to ﬁnd cut more about our degree prograrna iaeludiagz:

~ ﬂinamaﬁaiavisioniﬁnimatéon
v Communication Studies

a Phi). in Gemmuaicaﬁba

~ Tiaaalra Ans

- Joumaﬁiam

 
 
  
 

r:zsr“:é.2'':.r;*.il 13%’ éhss  ¥?;+as:t;~:¥»:€€' ihz §-iésgisrt .i.:"<,§s‘.2<.:JIwori 33.35" ‘ﬁsgxnxai ta   within the =éi?zxa1mzW:waf4i*2 vi’ 'za";,»,.<.;»*-ta.<.I7§II??«=§!}:‘3.Z3?.3

 

aria 1' ms?» t%:f‘}t§}€f?1:,EI.<g£§B7\_ §.3§."€&t’3:i§”... *1} :8. .3l.?{¥3I§ <~i{?€l‘? :
xriss _gc:>«.<<r.rsZxr:;, ‘rm =.»~.am-;:.m   r-aim? w» :12;
‘ 2 ar naltma-2’ I a"¥.§‘il'i$G ‘t.1?f"z'{-§l¥‘l. Regent ¥.3nas'meii§: is

 

 

  
 

Graduate

 
 

's.a.ea.era*.aa;fgaaaa,e§*§:a§§rea*%aw

3;

  .. 

:>n:.Vi-iv;.*u»..‘;£’. a:;-a <;‘s;.z.;\m.a"§‘£1’?=2-F a ”i"'ia§‘:’ MI. is

1'

 

 

  

“& LIEE  

EMILYMEDWARDS
AKlS&LIPEEDl'll0R

mm m

PAGE 7

Napoleon Dynamite offers a new breed of laugh-out-loud comedy

BEYOND HOLLYWOOD
ELYsE MOODY

If you ask the person sitting next to you if they have seen
Napoleon Dynamite, the answer will probably be yes. If this
unfortunate person happens to say no, then I am sure you will
immediately suggest that they watch it as soon as possible. Ev-
eryone is talking about this movie and its red—afro—ed mouth-
breather of a protagonist.

Not to mention Pedro, who will make “all

likely to answer “Heck yes I would!” Along the same lines,
exclamations such as “Gosh!”, “Idiot!”, and “Ughhhhhhhhh,”
are becoming more and more prevalent.

This week at the horse center, there was a BMX race. My
roommate, who was outthere for some eventing, came home
and said that she really wanted to ask them if they had “taken
their bikes off any sweet jumps.”

The thing that is most intriguing to me about this movie is
that it manages to be absolutely hilarious without using pro-
fanity. It is common for comedies and the actors in them to rely

on cursing, etc. to make situations funny or to
draw attention to themselves. I am not saying

your wildest dreams come true” if you promise I lust h0PC 30meb0dY can that this is ineffective; I think Chris Rock and
to vote for him, Kip, Napoleon’s brother and a ﬁnd their pledges some Dennis Leary are ridiculously funny, and I ap-

cage fighter in training, and, of course, Tina,
the llama we all know and love. Gosh! I love
this movie.

This movie is becoming a commonality inside the W & L
community. I used the movie all during rush week as a conver-
sation topic to fall back on. Almost everyone has seen and
loved this movie—and if you haven’t, you should GO NOW and
watch it. Who can deny the sheer awesomeness of Napoleon’s
dancing?

What more perfect Lip Sync dance could there be? Come
on, it is practically begging to be done. The “Vote for Pedro” t-
shirt is easy. I just hope somebody can find their pledges some
moon boots.

I have found that the Idahoan slang spoken in the movie is
quickly becoming incorporated into our everyday language. If
you ask a friend if they would like to order Domino’s, they are

moon boots.

preciate their senses of humor as much as any-
one else. It just seems incredible to me that the
writers of Napoleon Dynamite manage to elicit
such amazing responses in an audience by using language that
gets no stronger than “ﬂippin.”’

It is refreshing to be able to watch a movie with your par-
ents or eight-year-old cousin without feeling uncomfortable
about its content or language. In the same strain as Shrek, this
movie seems to appeal to everyone. It is just so easy to laugh
at the characters, and enjoy the subtle and intelligent humor.

In fact, I would argue that the writers’ purposeful avoid-
ance of profanity makes the movie funnier. Why is “ﬂippin’”
funnier than “f@#*in”’...Maybe it’s Napoleon’s endearingly
nonchalant tone. Maybe it’s his sweet Pegasus t—shirts. Maybe
it’s his fierce individualism (“. . .Whatever I wanna do—Gosh!”).
I don’t know; Ijust laugh.

W&L Bookstore Presents...

Who is Ted L. Nancy?

in his lucky shrimp outﬁt...

26-year-old dog, Cinnamon...

‘ He's a loyal fan of the King of Tonga...

Nutty Low Price: $15.00

Student Book of the Week

PHOTO COURTESY OF FOXSEARCHLlGHT.CO

A ween: feature of the Iootore am! the ins-um Plli

He's a concerned hotel guest searching for a’ lost tooth...

He's a superstitious Vegas high—roller who wants to gamble at a casino

He's a demanding dramatist seeking an audience for his play about his

He is, in reality, a supremely off-kilter alter ego who sends patently
ridiculous letters and queries to (and receives surprisingly earnest
responses back from) corporate honchos, entertainment
conglomerates, national publications, politicians, celebrities and heads
of state -— to everyone, in fact, from the president of the Bon Ami
Cleanser Company to Vice President Al Gore.

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts. lnfonnationl
Lﬁeservations 1-800-6484849 or wvvw.ststrave.com



 1'uaaLC.tn§)1mn&TxNTosCar£

Orfvia aoﬁroiw-1fwrALL Y0UC3&NE4lT%m.’

   

~FtittayN&!1!8%iu0dBu%\\ii§1Gtwl.u69l¢5F%&-19995
~—sawaayi~agmaIaaxasiwama°n-two
~smm * maoacaexaazaaeatamimmu
ammrrmwawmwwssm
~Daﬂyl-lotCom'myBarfltAM~¥6Pis
~oaaysmo,sam,amam11m-awn

Hwteﬂaokduaatsérsoutiumxflosyiiwwyl

0rdetBrmkfau‘24HounaDay,Scmndn7saweni:!

Located at
LEEHI'l‘RAvm.PLAzA
¥ﬂ&WﬁExl'rl§&HlCmﬂ$m!3W, VA

548-4636478
agmsooaaagamnmmot
Amlg¢?auiu!Cars&1’lnTa5voi

 

Cold weather should not dampen beauty habits

BY EMILY M EDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

weathercharmelcom, it appears as though winter is ﬁ-
nally here. Sayonara, 70 degree sunny days and ﬂip—ﬂops.
Bonjour, Burberry scarves and Ugg boots. It’s about damn
time. I was beginning to think I had wasted a significant

amount of money on winter cloth-
ing, much to my father’s chagrin.

For us ladies, it is easy to ne-
glect our precious skin during the
frigid temperatures. And we all
know that our beloved Lex isn’t
exactly the place to get the most
desirable facial or peel. In fact,

.  the wintenime sun cancause more - ~ V 4

damage than the summertime sun.
So here are a few tips for you.
Make sure you use a facial

moisturizer or foundation with SPF to protect you from
daily rays. As far as moisturizers go, I am a huge fan of
LaPrairie’s Cellular Moisturizer with SPF 15. A less-costly
option is Kiehl’s Ultra Facial Moisturizer, also with SPF 15.
If your skin can’t handle both a moisturizer and a founda-

tion, try Laura Mercier’s Tinted
Moisttnizer with SPF 15. If InStyle
loves it, you should too.

For dry skin, avoid taking
scalding hot showers and if you’re
into the exfoliating thing, once a
week is plenty. If your skin is ri-
diculously dry, try using baby oil
instead of lotion when you get out
of the shower. Don’t we all want
baby-soft skin?

Keep lip balm with you at all
times. From Burt’s Bees to the
trusted Rosebud Salve, no one

wants to see your chapped lips. You might as well cease
those pricey teeth-bleaching treatments if you’re not go-
ing to keep your lips in tip—top shape. Some Stila lip gloss

to top it off doesn’t hurt either.

Static hair is a pain in the arse, to say the very least.
Some mornings, there is almost no point in fixing my hair,

because one gust of wind, and the bit of curl that my hair
According to the weather‘ reports on could hold is gone. And don’t even get me started on split

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF KATESPADE.COM

ends. When I went to get my hair trimmed over Christmas
break, my stylist, who normally raves about my healthy hair,
told me my hair looked like a train wreck.

Once again, avoid the hot showers. Or at least wash

your hair in cold water. Hot water
rips your hair to shreds. Also, set
aside one (or two) days a week in
which you do not blow—dry,
straighten, curl or otherwise tor-
ture your hair. Like every other
part of your body, your hair needs
a break too. Matrix Essentials’

I Instacurespray wiltkeep the frizzies

and ﬂyaways at bay. I swear by it.
Use a deep conditioning mask
once a week in addition to taking

these measures. Try Frederic Fekkai’s Protein Treatment
Mask. Fekkai knows hair.

And lastly, merely because I don’t feel like writing any-
thing else, wear sunglasses. Retinal cancer is serious, and
it comes from not protecting your eyes. This doesn’t mean

that you have to wear some hideous

 

plastic creation that belongs to your
grandmother or great-aunt. There are
options, people.

Chanel. My new obsession,

thanks to Laguna Beach's LC. My
parents would ratherl didn’t have said
obsession. I recommend the 5065
Modiﬁed Masque.

Kate Spade. She’s more than

just shoes and cute nylon handbags.
The rachel and aubrey styles are very
attractive.

Oliver Peeples. He ﬂies a little

lower on the radar, but nonetheless, I like his trendy shades.
Take a look at the Bella Donna.
So there you have it, girls. It may be cold outside, but

- that is no reason to sacriﬁce our good looks!

Love,CAL, CA

Happy 21st Birthday Erin! W we

EME, and BTK

 

mm

 

PIIYSIIE.-!-.1’.  er:-«PT T
Orchardside Yarn Shop Care writ: ,,w.3;24? in mm‘ 5
Knitting-9p¢€W‘.V sh"?
 '.'f3,i'Ei ‘l:'9l'i;,:~:rll'i LE’: §'.l‘:!i'3’
Rtlllilm { vtxjazbm raga,
540-343-5m°1'377'N"'YARN E . . .' . V .1
icuumgu  5’ .-.031;-Ini,*. c:-rm-'f=':
Kni"ins°°"a8°n°“'°" “1°“%.“‘”'°°". .w...a.. Mo"
which carries a fabulous selection of basic '* “ '
and novelty yarns. kits. needles Ind ‘ _ _,
awessorie-‘~C°8*°“‘°'S°""°°"°““‘”"‘° >3§is»!i..‘lZ:5:.ii1l'lI3.'l'lg Ln:
fmishwithyourprojects.Mnilorderand ' « L
‘bili made . , _
“mm” W my .l.'_'ll'il'Ifl§.'IIl‘d.lC5
wrwmw-*W"‘“ some Evie:-dirinifz I
ygyway bctweenbailiglon andslaunlon  
0v!l~31/"“"“"“’2‘75"l"""""“""“""“"f""' £-‘q5:Ml"lf‘ °n:li:i.l.ii.ll*£a’ItiCtlJ. F
Rmgmmim xm1.Locm-dunawrhns ‘ ' 
farm that afar: "u-ricrappommiiiesfor fresh _ ‘
”““"""""““’°“ Fimsic atria" or 55:23:; fw 6:3 5,,M:5|lt-T W-'i“"’ GM‘ 9.5 '3“-” mlf E

‘lines-Stitl0'lll-5:00,WeduIIil8:00 !.?.l£.|iltl§?£?T5 with r:.u.1_v‘ gmmarra yo.*i° .i°?l'x.fé__l!' innit’-'-1‘ rorrcmrievzs-ow
:;w eegmicrzg or _p-'.r.I:!r* .:'.s’-la’..tii"l€t'.*z-:-fi'.'!.

u 

J

1 much better, and made my

 

PAGE 8

 
 

THE RING~TUM Piii

THE   AST ORD

FMILYEDWARDS
- ARTS&LlPEEDl'IOR

Eiiiigriixx/ARDsEvi@wiiin)Li

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005

Potato Man offers a forecast for the upcoming months

Last’s week’s article featured the best and
worst of 2004. But I am done with 2004. We
are moving onto bigger and better
things....2005. This year is going to prove to
be much better than last *
year. How do I know you
ask? Because like all
things, 2005 is going to be
predictable.

It’s almost sad that we
know what is going to»hap-
pen over the course of the next twelve months.
People have become so conventional that I
can say with reasonable certainty exactly what
is going to happen

There will be a new, hot Hollywood couple
which will take over the covers of the Tab-
loids and be the lead story on “Entertainment
Tonight.” It’s where the girl next door will
meet the clean cut bad boy that everybody
loves. I

They will meet on set in New Zealand or
Morocco. They will date for 2 months and
declare that no love has ever been as true as
theirs and they will marry in front of paparazzi
in helicopters. '

But like all “true” love, theirs too will come
to an end. The divorce papers will include men-
tions of a stripper named Innocence, charges of
spousal abuse and reports of cocaine addictions.
Rumors will ﬂy and for a whole 12 ‘hours people
will cry.

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE

They will say that they thought that the
marriage was going to work out. They will
ask how, if a marriage between two overpaid,
egotistical, beautiful people can’t work, whose
ever will. The world will grant the
spoiled marriage its fifteen minutes
of fame, and won’t think about ei-
ther actor again until VH1 does an
hour long show on shortest celeb-
rity weddings.

Also in 2005 a fraternity at Wash-
ington and Lee will get kicked off campus. It
might be for hazing, it might be for drugs, but
it is inevitable. Slowly the Greek system will
decline and rather than doing something pro-
ductive to stop it, people will sit back and
complain about the adminis-

tration.

overall accuracy in making its lists. People
will go to VMI to have fun rather than the other
way around and we will be known as the
sketchy kids.

And in 2005 college men across the coun-
try will realize how much better it is to import
girls. Men realize importing proves to be less
burdensome the morning after and less qual-
ity time is required. They come to understand
that girls at their school are mostly crazy and
other girls are normal. College women will
never have dates again and will have to go to
other schools to find men.

Also in 2.005, I will never get any dates
from W&L girls because of what [just said.

It will also be found that eating only
Rocky Road ice cream can
help you lose up to 18

The change in social cli- Slowly the Greek System will pounds a week. Rocky
mate changes the applicant decline, and rather than doing Road sales fly through the
pool, and gradually the ho- something Productive to Stop roof and people forget all
mogenous population of rich _ _ _ about that Atkins guy. A
white prep school graduates 1!, P501316 W111 Slt back and book called The Rocky
changes to an equal mix of Complain about the Road Leading to Healthy
races from 59 countries. . . . Town is written and

administration.

The administration is fi-
nally happy because they
have their diversity, which raises them two
spots on The Princeton Review’s Best Liberal
Arts School List. W &L is also dropped from
the list of party schools and the administra-
tion praises the Princeton Review lists for its

makes millions. The
Rocky Road hysteria
lasts only until 2006 comes and a new diet is
found that can make you lose up to 19
pounds a week.

We are only two weeks into 2005 and we
have already had ’a website circulate with

OUR  E»! . M
THE N01‘-SO-HAPPY COUPLE.The Potato Man offers his
insights on what events will transpire in the next 50
weeks of 2005. One thing’s for certain, Brad Pitt and
Jennifer Aniston won’t be together.

pictures made of Noah and anti—Semitic post-
ers by a few stupid (cancel that— VERY stu-
pid) freshmen. lt’s going to be a fun fifty-
two weeks.

Early says what’s hot and what’s not

THE MILK AND_ CHEESE GIRL
KRisTiNE EARLY

Last week Mr. Potato Man gave his opin-
ion on what was hot and what was not in
2004. Because I amsupposed to be his fe-
male counterpart, I thought I should put in
my two cents. So, here is what tops, and
doesn’t top my list for the year of Martha
Stewart, Janet Jackson’s exposed breast and
G.W. Bush reelection. We
won’t even get into what I
think about that.

Hot:

1) Tropical: Fish, tasty
drinks, and free t-shirts.
Enough said.

2) Fro-Yo: I never really
liked fr0—yo before I started
eating in the Marketplace,
but having grown accus-
tomed to it, I couldn’t imag-
ine dinner without  It
made my year just that

jeans just that much tighter.
3) “Sex and the City”: Ev-
ery good thing must come
to an end, but now that I
own all the DVDs, I can pretend that they
don’t have to. I love you, Santa! Thanks for
keeping me entertained and helping me put off
homework for just one more half hour, SJP.

4) “The K Spot”: Even though no one lis-
tened, I still played the best music on the air.
What can possibly beat two hours of Dave
Matthews, Something Corporate, Dashboard
Confessional, Alanis Morrisette and Match-

“'13

(I3 An anonymous pledge when asked about
pledgeship: “I am a happy Fiji pledge.”

 

31> Don’t look into the owl....

<I> I can’t figure out which Phi Delt was the first to
find the Todd Tate video... perhaps it was a group
discovery.’ ’

(I3 W&L Absurdity #1: The utterly illogical combi-
nation of miniskirt and (snow) boots. Next new
fashion: bikini and snow pants.

<1) I hope I shall possess firmness and virtue
enough to maintain what I consider the most envi-
able of all titles, the character of an honest man. -
George Washington

(I) The education of a man is never completed until
he dies. — Robert E. Lee

 

box Twenty? Certainly not country music.

5) Christmas in the Country: Hot cocoa and
cider and a bonfire...What more could a girl
ask for on a chilly December night?

6) My acceptance into W&L: I could still be
stuck up in Carlisle, PA. I don't even want to
think about it. New topic!

7) Scrabble: Having memorized almost all the
two letter words, I beat my brother four times
in a row at the end of the summer. It is the only
board game worth playing and it rocked 2004.
How many points are locked when played on a
triple word tile?
8) Traveller’s
new buses:
They’re fun to
ride in. Granted,
they are never
there when you
need them.

9) Garden State:
It is possibly one
of the best mov-
ies I’ve ever
seen. It may not
be as quotable as
Napoleon Dyna-
mite, but it defi-
nitely can’t be
beat.

10) Napoleon
Dynamite quotes: “I see you’re drinking 1%
milk. Is that because you think you’re fat?
‘Cause you’re not. You could be drinking whole
if you wanted to.” Boys, I challenge you to
come up with a pick up line as good as that.
And then, successfully use it on somebody.
11) The Introduction of the Milk and Cheese
Girl on the back page: I like to throw myself
props once in awhile. It makes me feel cool. I

PHOTO COURTESY OF lGN.COM

(I) If the newly initiated anonymous reporting of
hazing is such a credible and well-reasoned ap-
proach to allow neophyte Greek students feel bet-
ter protected and safe from reprisals, why is there
no anonymous hot line for reporting sexual as-
sault?

(I) “He thinks he’s a tough guy from Lookout Mt.;
he’s really a metro from L.A.”

_ (13 Motion to remove the term “Literary” from use.

by the Ariel. Do I hear a second? (For more infor-
mation read “In memory of WWVA” p. 8)

(13 Andrew Rothey—How many open parties did
Fiji have this fall?

(I) I would like to thank Phillipe (the independent 1

Mooch) for throwing an awesome party Friday
night.

<1) Andrew Rotliey should never be allowed to write ‘

for any paper again.
(D You look like a big, friendly pink kooshball.

<1) Don’t ever ride in a car with the Arts & Life
editor...she drove the wrong way down Main Street
this weekend.

<1) Eating a lot and then spewing bitchiness is my
form of bulimia

<I> Looks like Smokin’ Jim got smoked.

also like to use words like props. It makes me
feel even cooler.

12) The Facebook: You love it. I love it. College
students everywhere love it. So do stalkers.
13) Tucker Carlson: I may not agree with all of
his views, but
he is so cute
and charis- V
matic that I, 
like every other
girl in Lee
Chapel, was
drooling.

14) ‘‘After- , 
noon Delight”:
Will Ferrell is
amazing. And
this is possibly the best music video of the
entire year. Scary, I know.

15) F*ck Your GPA Party: The scary drive down
windy roads was well worth it. It was a great
way to end the year at Washington and Lee.
Not:

1) The New Drinking Rules: I am certainly not a
fan. However, I am going to follow Mr. Potato
Man lead and leave it at that.

2) Health Code Violations: I like to know that
my meals are prepared under sanitary condi-
tions. Please wash your hands before you
touch my food.

3) “The Biggest Loser”: Watching other
people exercise just doesn’t excite me. I’d rather
spend the hour running or biking. And we won-
der why there is such a big problem with obe-
sity in America.

4) Jerry Orbach’s death: “Law and Order” won’t
be the same without Orbach. Thank goodness
for twelve years worth of reruns.

5) Elizabeth Kubler-Ross’s death: Doesn’t it
seem ironic that the author of On Death and

 gutavntim,
changes your EH».

<1) My roommate came home without her under-
wear and in someone else’s pants last night. . .this
weekend, she wins, but next weekend, it’s all me.

<1) “It’s supposed to be easy in, easy out, but
there’s nothing easy about it. Oh, you’re sup-
posed to put it in backwards.”

(I) Who knew Parkview could contain so much v

debauchery, and so many people in one bed?

CD If you’re the really cute, blonde Veernie on the
track team, call Emily E.

(I) Kudos to W&L Dance for a fantastic recital.

(I) Note to self: punching broken glass is no way
to impress girls.

(I3 What do you prefer. . .sex or mashed potatoes?

(1) Happy 43rd Birthday to Jim Carrey and Happy
198th Birthday to Robert E. Lee (on Wednesday).

<1) Happy Martin Luther King Day!
(I) The Wllage was so not scary.

<1) Sorry Aussie, the test came back positive.

(I) Blushing...it’s what I do best.

<1) I’m amused by Erin’s lack of love life.

Dying met her decease? Maybe Ijust have a
sordid sense of humor.

6) Sexual Assault: No means no. No does not
mean Yes. It isn’t a difficult concept to grasp.
7) Splenda Shortage: As of early December,

    

PHOTO COURTESY OF A'rKiNs.coM

the supply of Splenda couldn’t keep up with
demand. I can drink coffee without two pack-
ets of this super sugar substitute. Clearly,
we have a crisis on our hands. I’m stocking
up like it’s Y2K.

8) The Atkins Diet: Eat some friggin’ bread.

arts and life.

(I) If you shave one leg, it feels like you’re in bed
with a girl.

(I) I would take the mashed potatoes.

(D I clearly am not hyper enough, I need more
diet coke.

CI) Check out thefacebook.com for a picture of BTK
in uniform.

<1) Streaking the Colonnade should happen in
Spring Term, not in the middle of J anuary.

<1) The Pit threw an awesome 48 hour party this
weekend.

<I>Do it!

(I) If I don’t get something on this campus, I just
assume it’s because I’m an independent.

(D You know that the parties in town suck when
you run into the whole campus at the Valley View
theatre in Roanoke.

CID Sign up for Panhellenic’s fitness classes! Who
wouldn’t want to learn hip-hop and yoga for a small
fee of $25 ?

(I) The Phi welcomes your anonymously submit-
ted Quick Hits, rants, raves and tales of drunken
debauchery sent to phi@wlu.edu

 

 
  

Arr

!37&75§

R552
\/.l07
no.1?
c/2..

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING=TUM PHI.

NINDAY, JANUARY 24, 2005

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

THIS ‘ISSUE “W
To our readers, subscribers, and the
Washington and Lee community,

At this point in our University’s
history, the Ring-tum Phi wanted to
communicate to our readers that we
are a paper of journalistic integrity,
dignity, respect, and Washington and
Lee history. Out of respect to our
heritage, we reverted to the original,
1897 masthead, complete with the
original slogan, “by the students and
for the students.” While we look
back with the traditional masthead,
we have also incorporated a new,
sleek contemporary design that we
think will appeal more to our readers.

In this moment of great
transformation for the Ring-tum Phi,
we also made staff changes. Chris
Lauderman is promoted to Co-Editor-
in—Chief because of Erin’s firm belief
in surrounding herself with the best
and brightest. Marshall Rule is
taking the reigns as Managing Editor
and Emily Hulen, the woman with
the redesign vision, is promoted to
Layout Editor.

We’re proud of our newspaper and
we are proud to be a part of
Washington and Lee’s written
heritage. We hope you enjoy reading
the Ring—tum Phi as much as we
enjoy producing it.

Sincerely,

Erin Julius and Chris Lauderman
Editors-in-Chief

.HOT’TICKET’

I.oseyu:n:sa1.f inthemnic
Students anticipate the wildly
popular Lip Sync competition in
which groups of students perform at
the Pavilion. Jan. 28, 9:00 p.m.,
tickets sold at the door.

2:ig1a'sR:ilJjs

“Mrs. Kemble’s Tempest” by W&L’s
own Tom Ziegler plays in the Lenfest
Center’s Johnson Theater. Wed., Jan.
26, and Thurs., Jan. 27, 8:00 p.m.

mazing Grace

Spanish film “Maria FuH of Grace”
runs with subtitles in the Commons.
Fri., Jan. 28. and Saturday, Jan. 29,
Free.

QUICK“l-IITS‘

-Freshman guys we rushed who
pledged elsewhere, don't come to
our parties, we don’t want you.

MZeQﬁd{H2l.t8: T 8.

V QUICK» POLL-

Q:l2)yO.1th:lnkthafr$IIar1
pliinnlxaedinﬁn
ad .I. Hi I.

. .3 II 131.32 I.
baﬁozethesl-'HB?

51 students polled, 26 male. 25 temale. Poll has 95% conﬁdence
in a +/- 5% margin ot_ error.

Lex heads to Washington

W&L, VMI students go to Inauguration

B_(mnJ.i1jna

EDI‘TER- IN-G-HE“

Local students braved wintery
weather, a long drive and heightened
security checks to watch the Presidential
Inaugural parade in Washington D.C last
Thursday.

Dane Boston, ’08, said he enjoyed
spending the day in Washington, “the
parade was wonderful, it was neat to see
the different parts of the country come
together,” he said. For Boston, the
importance of the day made the trip worth
it, “I felt a connection to the democratic
process, to the history of the event,” he
said. “Even if you didn’t feel a connection
to the party in power, you feel a link to the
ofﬁce of the President and the history of
the republic.”

Estimates show that 150,000 people
may have attended the parade and as many
as 265,000 attended the swearing—in
ceremony.

Camille Allen, ’07, said she was
impressed, “to see how many people
support the President, and how many
people are so proud to be a part of this.”

The Virginia Military Institute sent
its Corps of Cadets to march in President

Bush's Inaugural parade, and 50 cadets
from the VMI Regimental Band appeared
on the Fox and Friends show Thursday
morning. '

The corps marched in overcoat, full
dyke with arms.

“It was definitely a once in a
lifetime experience to march that close to
the President. It was worth all of the
practice parades and uniform inspections
by being the best looking group there,”
said Will Durkee, ’06.

Over 1000 Cadets took 26 charter
buses to Washington and spent three hours
moving through security checkpoints
before the parade.

“It was an honor to be there, it was
a lot of work and a lot of marching on cold
days but it was well worth the practice.
The Corps will remember it for the rest of
our lives,” said Aaron Childers, the
Regimental S-3 Operations Captain in
charge of writing the parade planning
orders for the Corps.

On the way back to Lexington, one
of VMI’s buses broke down while two
more were in a fender—bender on Route
66 in Fairfax. One Cadet broke his nose
in the accident and another knocked his
teeth out on his riﬂe.

“It was an honor to be there, it was a lot of work
and a lot of marching on cold days but it was
well worth the practice. The Corps will remem-
ber it for the rest of our lives.”

— Iaixnchildas, lkgiiutnls-3q:aadanCutammda:mdwdﬁmd2;a:xhplaxﬁrumh3ﬁrdnOJ;s

EMILY HULEN / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

ﬁalnimﬂayﬁaadmslnrsmmgzirhatdnnaidzﬁﬂkagntim

mBrxn1'eFw1?elps1arvavea'IE:a5 ﬂag.

SPE to instal idea frat

Bydnislaiiiieintaii

EDI’ICR~lN-Ci-{DEF

A frat from the past is recolonizing
at W&L. Sigma Phi Epsilon, which had
their charter revoked in the summer of
2003 by their national chapter, has been
approved by the Inter Fraternity Council,
the faculty, and the administration to return
to campus.

But the same SPE will not be
returning. The new SPE will share the
national chapter’s view of the future which
was not always consistently shared by the
former chapter.

“The future direction is a chapter
built around sound mind and sound body,”
Greg Barra, Director of Recruitment for
SPE, said.

Unlike other fraternities at W&L,
SPE has a program entitled the “Balanced
Man Program.” According to Barra, this
is a four-year professional development
program where men go through no new
member education.

“We want all undergrads on a
single-tiered membership,” Barra said.

He pointed out that needs of a senior
are different from needs of a freshman.
As a result of these differences, freshmen
SPEs will attend study skills sessions and
go on campus tours and seniors will learn
how to dress and prepare for a job
interview. According to Barra, these‘
workshops will radically improve the
undergraduate experience.

He emphasized that there would be
no hazing.

“There will be nothing detrimental
to lifetime development,” said Barra.
“That is the bedrock of what our chapter
is built on.”

SPE will be submitting a proposal
on April 30 that will outline their plan for
recolonization at W&L. According to
Kevin Weaver, Interim Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life, the proposal has
to be approved by SAC, the Student
Activities Committee.

Once the proposal is submitted, the

university and SPE will work on a time
for the chapter's return. The discussion
has not yet begun.

After the national headquarters
revoked SPE’s charter at W&L, many of
the members eventually found their way
to Phi Kappa Psi. Barra said that having
former SPEs on campus is not a
determinate factor for when they
recolonize.

“That’s not going to have as much
effect as our conversations with the
administration,” Barra said.

Barra said that SPE would abide by
all regulations for recruitment. As of now,
SPE has no plans of bringing in freshmen
before formal rush begins for the other
fraternities.

SPE intends to have a new chapter
development team come to Lexington to
perform one—on-one recruitment with the
campus community. Recommended
upperclassmen will become SPEs inthe
fall and help the new chapter development
team build membership in the winter.

STEVEN MAFHNOS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Pn:ﬁas:rS:&s, aﬁiziiarp:es.iihtc£C!1<, qaealcsatdnomwxatiai.

ODK initiates

nlraaldeﬂﬂﬁ

STAFF WRITER

Large snowﬂakes coated Lee
Chapel as the 2005 ODK candidates were
initiated on Wednesday January 19.
Omicron Delta Kappa is a prestigious
society founded on the principles of
service, leadership and scholarship. The
society began at Washington and Lee in
1914. Today, ODK’s inﬂuences and ideals
have expanded to 285 active circles and
now include 226,000 members.

The tradition of excellence
continued this year with the induction of
9 law school students and 21
undergraduates. Jill Waity, the current
president of ODK, said that these students
not only contribute to the college
community but that they are “contributors
of a better society”.

Taylor Sanders, history professor
and former president of ODK, closed the
ceremony by reflecting on individuals
who, throughout the history of
Washington and Lee, have played a major
role in maintaining the university’s
success and standards for centuries. This
year’s ODK initiates, like the individuals
before them, are expected to help to
further ensure the existence of these ideals
for centuries to come.

WLD reﬁnes
its mission

ﬁrEﬁn.]ﬂ.‘l.i.B

HJl’KR- IN-G-EEF

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell, a research group founded
by Brent Beshore, ’05, has refined its
mission as it has tackled its first issue,
the question of alcohol consumption on
campus.

The six—member Board consists
of recent alumnus K.C. Schaeffer, staff
members Burr Datz, Mimi Elrod, and
Harlan Beckley and current students
Celia Landgren and Lloyd Wilson.

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell is currently in the research
phase for the first issue it is examining,
alcohol consumption. “We want to
ﬁnd all the information we can get our
hands on,” Beshore said. “We will then
distill that into a report, or
publication.”

Schaeffer is heading up the
research and development and said he
plans to utilize surveys, both of
Washington and Lee’s campus and
others. To study other schools,
Schaeffer said the coalition will, “use
contacts through students we already
know.”

Once the coalition’s report is
released, “anybody who cares can look
at the information, it is not filtered
through the Administration or any other
campus groups.”

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell will not make
recommendations for how to resolve
campus issues, but states its goal as,
“impact through information,” Beshore
said, “we want to increase
communication and get more
information out there,” he said.

“We’ll take all of the school’s
data and look at that, then conduct our
own research and studies to gauge
where we are,” Beshore said. “Then
we’ll look at what other schools have
done and fill in the gaps [of

- infoiination].”

Beshore formed the coalition
earlier this year because of,
“displeasure with the direction things
were going,” he said. “There was a
period of time earlier in the year when
there was growing miscommunication
and no one really knew what was going
on.”

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell is independent, and not
looking for funding.

 

latch . .-

 

MGDAY,JAM!ARY 24,215

Eating disorders plague W&L

National College Health Assessment ﬁnds W&L women twice as likely to have anorexia or bulimia

Byxamerineshel
A$Sl'N\l'|'l\£VVSEDTCR

Last spring’s National College
Health Assessment reported that
Washington and Lee women “are more
likely to report having anorexia, bulimia,
or any eating disorder” than the national
average, with women reporting suffering
from bulimia at twice the national average
for college-age women. According to
Christy Barongan, a psychologist at
Counseling Services, this maybe linked
to the image that W&L students are forced
to accept.

“Although we cannot tell exactly
why, this school is one in which image and
appearance are important,” Barongan said.
Also, the ideas of perfection and control
that most W&L students strive for can be
a cause of eating disorders, where control

Students
call for
assault
website

Bymasnalnuie
N|PNP(3\GE]l'CFi

Due to the recent discussions of
sexual assault on campus, some students
are calling for an anti-sexual assault
website similar to the anti-hazing website
already in place.

The anti-hazing website, created
earlier in the school year, aims to curb
fraternity hazing during pledgeship.

Students can send reports of hazing
through the website, while at the same
time stay anonymous to the student body.
A proposed anti-sexual assault website
would operate in a similar way.

However, the website, like the anti-
hazing website, is being met with
pessimism. Some students argue that a
website would just lead to frivolous and
false allegations in order to get revenge
on an ex-boyfriend or friend.

Dean Watkins dismisses these fears
by saying that it is often easy to determine
the serious complaints from the hoaxes.
According to Watkins, the anti-hazing
website is working well, and they have
already received a legitimate complaint
that they are looking in to.

Another problem that the supporters
are running in to is the difficulty of
investigating a sexual crime without the
victim’s full involvement. While it is
possible to investigate someone suspected
in sexual assault and still allow the victim
to remain anonymous, it is much more
difficult.

In an informational meeting last
week with one fraternity about the school’s
new alcohol enforcement, Watkins
responded to a question regarding sexual
assault by saying, “Some victims are
scared that if they come forward, they will
have a whole fraternity hating her.”

Watkins explained that many
victims don’t come forward because they
think that if they go to the authorities, all
of the suspect’s fraternity brothers will be
mad at not only the victim, but also the
victim’s sorority or organization.

Supporters of the website say that
the website will be a remedy for this
problem. By providing a way for victims
to come forward without fully exposing
their identity, the school will, hopefully,
be able to lessen the problems of sexual
assault on campus.

Whether an anti-sexual assault
website is created or not, many students
are happy with how far Washington and
Lee has come in addressing the problem.

“I am excited to see that the
Washington and Lee community is taking
the issue of sexual assault as serious as it
is” says SJC secretary Jeb Brooks. “I am
thrilled in the progress we have made and
hope to continue this progress in the
future.”

is often the underlying problem.
According to the Eating Disorder Referral
and Information Center, “tendencies to be
perfectionistic and to set rigid standards
for oneself ”can cause the development
of an eating disorder.

Barangon also links eating disorders
to the idea that “W&L students are
especially high achieving and
perfectionistic.” Meghan Joss, a member
of the LIFE team which offers support for
those suffering from eating disorders,
agrees that “the student body has the
predisposition and temperament that are
most at risk.”

A reason that diagnosing and
treating people suffering from eating
disorders can be difficult is not because
of resources offered on campus and
elsewhere, but instead, the fact that very
few people who have eating disorders will
admit a problem to themselves or other

GRAB LIFE BY THE BALL

people. “Secrecy and denial are common
with eating disorders, and those folks with
the problem often resist diagnosis and
treatment,” said Jane Horton, Director of
Health and Counseling Services.
According to Joss, “Eating disorders and
addictions in general are cunning because
they are the diseases that tell the sufferer
they don’t actually have a problem.”
Though the assessment showed that
W&L students are more likely to develop
an eating disorder, the National College
Health Assessment did not find this as one
of W&L’s main three problems. Those
problems were “frequency of alcohol
abuse, negative impact of mental health
and social concerns (which could be linked
to eating disorders and perceptions on
campus) and sexual violence experienced
by women,” according to Jan Kaufman,
the Director of Health Promotion.
Despite the statistics showing

bulimia as a problem twice that of the
national average, the focus after the Health
Assessment has been on sexual assault
awareness on campus and the enforcement
of the alcohol policy.

The problem of eating disorders is
familiar to some students. A poster last
year in the bathrooms in the Commons
asked students who threw up to please
clean up after themselves.

Despite being overshadowed by
other issues, there are many ways on
campus for those suffering from eating
disorders to seek help, as well as those
whose friends and peers suffer.

“At W&L, we try to use a team
approach to treatment and support, using
resources in the Counseling Center, the
Student Health Center, coaches and
trainers for athletes, friends, parents, etc.,”
said Horton. Also, Overeaters Anonymous
meets on Tuesdays at 6:30 in R. E. Lee

Episcopal, though, according to Joss, it has
“an unfortrmate name since it is applicable
to people with all levels and all forms of
compulsive eating/undereating.”

National Eating Disorders
Awareness Week is February 28-March 4,
and the speaker coming on March 3 will
be a good source of information for
students who are concerned about a friend
or unsure how to approach someone with
a possible eating disorder.

Any counselor or physician in
Student Health and Counseling Services
would also be happy to talk to a student
with concerns,” said Horton.

Also, though its main focus is
sexual assault on campus, the Day of
Dialogues sponsored by Panhel next
Saturday will offer women the ability to
talk about their own concerns for W&L,
with eating disorders as one of many
subjects that can be discussed.

JON ROGERS I STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

PiKappaPhitookonthefacullyintheDodgebdlTwnnrnentﬁmlsattheWomen’sBaskeﬂadlgane|astTuesday. Theﬁndsweretuobedecidedbywinringzoutofsgimes. PiPhiwon
theﬁrstgamemdwasabouttowintheseeondgammrarmeannwmasforcedmemumrnemmoanemmmdsomewumncwldresuneplay.

Pro—choice group forms on campus

[Group plans to educate the campus about women’s health options

Bysudamniay
DENSEIJCR .

.. g N A new pro—choice group formed
Tuesday with the intent to educate the
campus aboiito women’s health options

and to support legislationaaffecting

reproductive rights.

“We need to foster both sides of
the discussion on campus,” said Caitlin
Mullen ’05, the president of Students for
Choice.

The ﬁrst meeting was a chance for
participants to air their concerns about
the student body’s attitudes towards
reproductive rights. Members expressed
worry that this university in particular
presents opposition to those rights, an
idea that is troublesome to many in light
of pending legislation to remove the
“morning-after” pill from Virginia
coilege campuses.

,“I think the opposing clubs will be able to help
educate and increase awareness in the com-—
munity so they can make a more informed
decision on where they ,stand* onthis issue.”

-— AiexaMoina:ers,snidmtsforl£ePresR1em

The move by the legislature is
seen by pro-choice advocates as an
attempt to blur the line between abortion
and contraception.

Opportunities for participation in
Students for Choice include scheduled
demonstrations on important dates, such
as the anniversary of Roe v. Wade last
Saturday.

The group will also be taking a bus

to Richmond Feb. 3 for Virginia Pro-
Choice Lobby Day, a chance for
concerned citizens to show their support
for womerfs rights and to speak with
legislative aides. ,

Students for Choice willwork in
collaboration with Planned Parenthood »
of Blue Ridge to achieve its objectives.
While it is a student-um group, members
include professors and physicians as ‘well

as Lexington.resideirts.~ ‘It  i
as a counterpartto the Students for Life , C
group, which regularly sponsors
speakers such as the national‘ president E
of Feminists for Life. , if a r i
“I think the opposing cinbs wiil
be able to heip educate andiinczease
awareness in the community so theyocan .
make a more informed decisionion

owhetegthey stand on this issue,” said ‘ A

Studenfsiorelsifelpresident Aiexa
MonteveIis"06. A  .,w-  .

Mulien agrees. “I would love to 
getadebatc going. The reason I.st‘artec_i
this is because [Students for .
this discussion.”  E 3351

No collaboration between
Students for Life and lstudents for .
Choice has  butivlotitevelis
andMu}len hope to ayoid  » ~
rhetoric” . and “offensive, lhurtfui
IaI18l'1age.”< ’  =1  . ‘

4

 

%

A

MGDAY, JAMJARY 24, Z15

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

SD01 lS

 

t

THIS WEEK

TUESDAY, JAN.25
-Womens’ Basketball at Emory and _
Henry, 7:00

 Y,JAN%

-Mens’ Basketball at Emory and
Henry, 7:00

-Wrestling at Southern Virginia, 7:00

TFIFSDAY, JAN.27
I Open

FRDAY, JAN.28
-Track at Christopher Newport, TBA

SATURDAY, JAN3

-Mens’ Swimming at Hopkins, 10:00
IWrestling at Apprentice, 10:00
-Womens’ Basketball vs. Roanoke,
4:00

.Womens’ Swimming at Marymount,
5:00

-Mens’ Basketball vs. Roanoke, 7:00
'Track at Christopher Newport, TBA

SLNDAY, JANJI)
I Open

wresuingatlvlooanielouad
Ca1oe||ed(1l21)

The wrestling team’s meet at the
McDaniel Quad against Ursinus and
McDaniel scheduled for Saturday,

January 22 had been cancelled. The
meet will not be rescheduled.

Sw'I'rIn'l1gSpliIs MeetAgainst
Gt‘-'WSbUI9(1/15)

The men’s and women’s swimming
teams were both in action against
Gettysburg on Saturday afternoon at
Twombley Pool. The men improved

A to 5-1 with a 1'41"-64 victory, while
'3 the women dropped to 7-5 with a

141-64 defeat to the Bullets.

FormerGeneralTauenin MLL
DraltbyBayhawks(1l21)

Former men’s lacrosse player Tommy
Melanson ’03 was taken in the Major
League Lacrosse Supplemental Draft
which was held at the US Lacrosse
Convention last weekend in
Philadelphia, Pa.

TwoGenerdsNa'nedIONSCAA
Scho|aAll-Amen'caTeam(1/17)
The 2004 NSCAA/Adidas East
Region Men’s Soccer Scholar All-
America Team was recently
armounced and Washington and Lee
had two players represented on the
team. Senior defender Peter Miller
(Towson, Md./Baltirnore Lutheran)
earned second team accolades, while
senior midﬁelder Justin Mygatt
(Marietta, Ga./Woodward Academy)
garnered honorable mention status.

Womens’ basketball d

BySaahBloom
SENG7iSPCF{TSWFITER

The stands were ﬁlled Friday night
for the Washington and Lee Women’s
basketball game at Southern Virginia
University. The wildly supportive away
crowd didn’t faze the Generals, however.
After a heartbreaking loss to ODAC rival
Bridgewater on Tuesday (64-61), the
Generals played an intense game,
defeating SVU 71-55.

Emotions ran hot on Tuesday as the
Generals took on rival Bridgewater. An
early ﬁve point lead quickly turned to a
12 point disadvantage for the Generals in
the first half. The Eagles returned with a
strong start to the second half, but the
Generals gathered strength and played
stronger, catching the Eagles when
freshman Kristen Krouchick scored on a
lay-up, tying the game 59-59 with a minute
remaining on the clock.

In a tight final minute of play, the
Eagles scored a three-point basket. W&L
responded with a lay-up by sophomore
Jessica Hunsinger, making the score 62-
61 with 17 seconds left in the game.
Marsha Kinder of Bridgewater sank two
free throws, giving the Eagles a stronger
edge. The Generals made a ﬁnal attempt
to again match the score, but junior Louisa
Feve’s three-point attempt fell short just
as the buzzer sounded to end the game.

“The loss against Bridgewater was
deﬁnitely a tough loss,” Said Krouchick.
“It’s hard to bounce back from a loss like
that, but we just had to come out that much
harder against Southern Virginia.”

The Generals did bounce back in the
SVU game. Husinger and Feve each
recorded double-digit scores in two stat
categories and claimed season-high
records in scores to lead the team to
victory.

The game started out a little rough,
with the Generals missing their ﬁrst eight
shots and trailing SVU early in the game.
But the women quickly found their groove
and outscored the Knights, entering the
half with a score of 31-24 in the Generals
favor.

In an eerie twist, the Knights came
back to tie the game with only 16 minutes
left in the game. Familiar with this
situation, the Generals reclaimed the lead
with a pair of free throws by Feve. From
this point on, the Generals never let the
Knights within a ten point cushion.

Freshmen Krouchick and Amanda
Kane led the Generals in both scoring and
steals. Despite being new to the team, the
freshmen feel prepared for the intensity
of season-play thanks to the
upperclassmen.

“The upperclassmen give good
advice in some game time situations from
their own experiences,” said Kane.
“They’ve just been really supportive and
have really helped my transition to college
basketball,” added Krouchick.

The win over SVU bumped the
General’s win record above the win total
for last season.

“We are definitely a stronger team
this year,” commented Feve.

“Our women’s basketball program
is starting to establish ourselves as a

competitor in the ODAC” Bethany
Darmelly added. “We are able to compete
with the top teams and hopefully we will
be able to pull out some wins against some

ominates

CORBIN BLACKFORD / PHOTO EDITOR

PIayersoonvergea'oundthegoalduringtheGeneral’swinoverSVU.

of these top teams as the regular season
winds down. . .I think we will be expecting
to advance in the ODAC tournament this

17

year.

NCAA already getting exciting

Bymashalnule
|\AN\lN3\GEJ'|'O?

It may only be January, but it sure
feels like March Madness. In this week
alone college basketball has seen upsets,
game winners, and tough losses. And in
a much too early attempt to get in the mood

for the Final Four, I am going to recap the »

week of College Hoops for you by letting
you in on all the big stories of the biggest
four games of the weekend.
Kansas vs. Villanova — On College
Garneday Saturday morning Digger said
that Villanova was going to beat Kansas.
I laughed and realized that the man is
finally off his rocker. After going to
breakfast during the first half, I came back
to see that Villanova did not just win, they
blew out the Jayhawks. It’s only ﬁtting
that Villanova is the team that stopped the
Jayhawks undefeated streak. It’s hard to
call the Wildcats a Cinderella team, but
that’s exactly the word that comes to mind

when watching the fans storm the court.

Pitt vs. UCONN— Ifthere has ever
been one team besides UNC that I love to
see lose it is UCONN. It looked as if
Connecticut had the game in hand, but the
second half belonged to Pitt. Chevon
Troutrnan had 4 points in the first half, and
ﬁnished with 29. Two losses in two weeks
for the Huskies. UCONN seems to be
having just a little bit of trouble in
conference play, which is understandable
considering the talent in the Big East.
Unfortunately for Husky haters,
UCONN’s time always comes in March,
and come tournament time, they will be
ready to try to repeat.

GA Tech vs. VATech — Sometimes
you get lucky, sometimes you get unlucky.
Consider Virginia Tech VERY lucky. Up
by one with a few ticks left, Isma’il
Muhammad missed both free throws and
his teammates missed two easy put backs.

Georgia Tech is not quite the same team
as they were last year. Can you say
overrated? The Yellow Jackets have

dropped three straight, and four of their
last six games. Things aren’t likely to
change this week either when they play
Wake Forest.

LSU vs. Kentucky — Kentucky
blew out LSU. LSU isn’t even a
competitive team. Why did I throw this
game in you ask? Because none of the
other games really matter. Kentucky is
going to win it all. They got (arguably)
the best freshmen class this year with Joe
Crawford and Randolph Morris. But these
guys are just for show. The real power in
the Wildcat lineup lies in Chuck Hayes and
Patrick Sparks. If you haven’t seen Panick
Sparks play you haven’t lived. He single
handedly brought the Cats back from a
major deﬁcit against Louisville earlier in
the season. The gniy makes plays at both
ends of the court and will lead Kentucky
to its first championship since the glory
days of Padgett, Magloire, and Turner in
1998.

Laugh now, but I will be the one
laughing come tournament time.

CORBIN BLACKFORD / PHOTO EDITOR

AGeneral |ooksforapassduringtheteam’s Iosstowrginiawesleyan.

 

Mens’ basketball falls to
Virginia Wesleyan 63-53

Four Generals reached double digits
as teams’ record falls to 2-15

Sporsﬁelease

SPO3TSN:U'-WIATKN

Sophomore forward Brandon Adair
(Virginia Beach, Va./Princess Anne) tallied
23 points and eight rebounds to lift
Virginia Wesleyan to a 63-53 win over
Washington and Lee in ODAC men’s
basketball action on Saturday afternoon at
the Warner Center.

The Marlins (13-4, 7-4) led 36-24
at the break, but saw the Generals slice
the advantage to just ﬁve points (39-34)
with 14 minutes remaining in the game.

VWC responded with a 9-0 spurt
over the next 3:52 to go up 48-34 with
10:08 left.

W&L slowly chipped away at the
lead, cutting it to 55-50 at the 1:53 mark,
but the Marlins sealed the game at the foul
line in the ﬁnal minute.

Virginia Wesleyan held a 40-22

advantage in rebounding, including
grabbing 15 offensive rebounds.

W&L (2-15, 0-10) placed four
players in double ﬁgures led by freshman
forward Greg Bienemann (Chathain, N .J ./
Chatharn), who totaled 15 points on 5-of-
5 shooting from the field. Sophomore
guard Chris Halkitis (New Port Richey,
Fla./Ridgewood) notched 14 points, ﬁve
rebounds and four assists, while senior
guard Mike Stuart (Warrenton, Va./
Fauquier) and freshman guard John
Mumper (Richmond, Va./Douglas
Freeman) added 10 points each.

For Virginia Wesleyan, sophomore
forward Marcus Riley (Olney, Va./
N andua) supplemented Adair’s effort with
10 points. Junior guard Thomas Sumpter
(Hampton, Va./Bethel) chipped in with
eight points, six rebounds and ﬁve assists.

Washington and Lee returns to
action on Sunday as .-it hosts Randolph-
Macon for a 2:00 pm contest.

Mens’ lax
ranked
eighth

Sporlsﬁelewe

 TGl

BALTIMORE, Md. -
Lacrosse Magazine released its
Division I, II and III preseason polls
on Wednesday afternoon and
Washington and Lee was among
those cited.

The W&L men’s lacrosse team
is ranked eighth overall in voting
conducted by the magazine staff,
collegiate coaches and media
members. i

Two-time defending national
champion Salisbury sits atop the poll
and is followed by last season’s
runner-up, Nazareth. Middlebnry,
Cortland, Washington College,

‘ Gettysburg, Ithaca, W&L, Tufts and —
Hampden-Sydney round out the
preseason Top 10. ODAC rivals
Roanoke and Lyncliburg rank 1161
and 12th, respectively. V

W&L returns ﬁve starters and
31 iettcrwinners from last season’s
squad which posted a 14-4 overall
record, won the ODAC
Championship, and advanced to the
NCAA Quarterfinals. I-Ieadlining the
returnees is senior attackman Gavin
Molinelli (Northport, N.Y./
Northport), a Preseason Honorable
Mention All-America selection.

' Washington and Lee opens its
2005 campaign with a game at
Washington College on Sat., Feb. 26
at 1:30 pm.’ '

   

 

hetp|eadthisyear’sean1paigi.

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

NUDAY,JAMJARY24,ZXJ5

artsslife

 

BOOK REVIEW

Pledged: The
Secret Life of

Sororities
Srat Girl claims
book belongs
withreality TV

ByNathPn'nz
STAFFWHITE?

Often the number one reason not to
read a book is that it has appeared on the
New York Times Bestseller List. The
Masses like it? Something must be wrong
with it. Pledged: The Secret Life of
Sororities, by Alexandra Robbins, is a
perfect example of such a book. I would
place it in the genre of “Real World” and
“Who Wants to Marry My Dad”, more than
in any relevant literary or journalistic one.

Robbins is out to prove that
sororities are groups within which
intelligent, confident women turn into
insecure clones, whose extremely bad
behavior is a result of their sorority
identity. Her stories hold the same interest
that the worst shows on MTV do.

She speaks of rampant eating
disorders, affairs with professors and
abusive hazing as if they were the norm.
She also glamorizes these things she
claims to abhor by speaking of how
privileged all these girls are. She is not
above dropping brand names either.

Thus, she subtly undermines her
argument by equating all the evil in these
sororities with their (superficial)
desirability. These girls aren’t just
throwing up; they’re throwing up while
wearing designer sunglasses. Well, now I
want to read about them!

For obvious reasons, no sorority
knowingly allowed her to chronicle their
secret rituals and behavior of its members.
So Ms. Robbins took the honorable route:
She went undercover and joined sororities
while secretly recording all that took place
in the houses she stayed in, including
secret rituals!

Unfortunately, she bases all her
theories on three sororities, all seemingly
similar in the type of girls they accept. She
also picked only a few girls from each
sorority, whose stories she tells in full. It
is up to the reader to assume whether these
girls are representative of the whole or not.

She claims to have picked three
different sororities. (One is athletic, one
is more social.) However, these girls all
seem to have similar value systems,
interests, even ethnic and social
backgrounds.

The one minority student she
follows is a partial pariah in her own
sorority because of her background. I
claim that she could have found a more
diverse mix in the five rather similar
sororities on our own campus.

This sampling is what she bases her
“serious” journalism on. However, her
publisher gives her away. The cover of her
book is demonstrative of exactly the
audience she is looking for.

The cover shows three very
attractive girls, looking exactly the same,
but with their distinctive features cut off.
Is she hoping the fact that she reports on
three very similar girls will escape our
notice? Or is she trying to attract male
readers with the nubile bodies on the
cover?

As a parting insult to the reader who
is in a sorority, she gives away secrets that
are central to almost every sorority. She
disclosespatts of ritual and gives away
secret passwords. What can be the value
of that? In doing this, she undermines her
own work.

She feeds sensational, albeit useless
information to the vicarious reader. Isn’t
the idea of journalistic integrity to respect
the subject and present only pertinent,
relevant information?

Don’t send her to Iraq!(or even a
real interview for that matter.)Perhaps she
feels going undercover means she is above
a century of tradition, religious and moral
values, and the secrecy that is integral to
all sororities.

Last question: why do none of these
aspects come up in her book? Oh that’s
right. She‘s not about serious information,
So if you’re a serious or semi-serious,
reader: skip this book!

Bysammm-ay

l\E\/VSEJTOFI

JulimLedfordreadytoperformhisactIastFridaynig1tat

OPEN STAGE 2005

Students take to the stage inithe’ first annual event

Students entertained Lenfest
audiences Friday with Open Stage,
a series of monologues, dances, and
musical selections ranging from
original compositions to popular
musicals such as Aida and The
Phantom of the Opera.

Members of the W&L
community nearly filled Johnson
Theater, much to the surprise and
gratification of the performers. “I
didn’t expect so many people to
come out on a Friday night,” said
Julian Ledford ‘06, who gave two

  

vocal performances.

The show’s style resembled
a talent ‘show with short
performances following one after
another. Auditions were held only
one week before the event itself,
drawing more people with its low
time commitment.

Some of the performers,
like Lisa Zevorich ’{}7, were
returning veterans from the
similar Student Showcase held in
December. Zevorich, who was
involved in theater in high school,
returned to it only this year. After
opportunities at Open Stage and
Student Showcase to sing pieces

Lenfest-

   

JOHN ROG_EF!S/ AFF Pnoroemenen

from Wicked and other works, she’s
hooked once more.

“My favorite type of theater is
musical theater,” Zevorich said.

As a member of Chamber
Singers, General Admission, and
Joyful Noise, Ledford was drawn to
the musical aspect of Open Stage as
well.

He hopes to use his tape of the
performance to apply for a summer
program specializing in opera. His
theatrical ambitions are not nearly as
lofty.

“If they_have musicals, then I
take part,” Ledford said. “But I’m
not really an actor.”

Guy Next
Door speaks

ByJontIhmPmdnr
TI-EGUYl\EXfIXX)=i

Recently, I was approached by the
engaging editor-in—chief of this fine
publication about writing a bi-weekly
column. Though grossly under—qualiﬁed,
I accepted because, let’s be honest, this is
my best opportunity to woo many feisty
Minkettes with my witty prose and biting
social commentary.

Actually, that isn’t true. . .I just need
another extracurricular activity on my
resume. Whatever the case may be, away
we go... ,

This past Thursday, the Corps
participated in the Presidential Inaugural
Parade in Washington, D.C. As a proud
member of the Vast Right-Wing
Conspiracy, I was thrilled when I heard
that the entire Corps (minus some in-
season athletic teams) would have the
opportunity to march for President Bush.

However, this initial excitement
quickly turned into modest apprehension
when the training schedule for the event
was released. Countless uniform
inspections, practice parades, and hours
of logistical planning were required if the
trip was to be a success.

Mind you, all of this was in addition
to our everyday routine: academic
demands, ROTC requirements, and
keeping Lex-Vegas’ adult beverage
establishments in the black.

As for the trip itself, overall it was
a miserable experience which I will always
remember fondly. In a few years, I will
forget about the fact that we spent fourteen
of the eighteen hours off Post sitting on a
crowded bus and recall only those thirty
seconds of a cold January day when I was
twenty feet away from the most powerful
man in the world.

When we passed the reviewing
stand, President Bush looked directly at
me and nodded, as if to say, “Yes, Jonathan
Proctor, I see you; furthermore, I approve
of your superior marching abilities.”

At least that’s what I’ll allow myself
to believe. The other detail that I may not
forget would be marching through piles
upon piles of horse (ahem)...droppings.
[How fitting, since we Keydets have
grown accustomed to getting...relieved
upon.]

In the end, everyone returned safely
(though two of our buses were involved
in an accident, only a few teeth were lost)
and hopefully we even made a few alumni
proud.

At least we were excused from
classes on Friday. . .except, we weren’t, so
that was fun. Well that about does it for
this week’s installment; until next time,
neighbors, keep on keepin’ on.

Post—rush world not exciting

Bymaychids

ITS NOTYOU, ITS ME

People always told me last
semester that oh, man, after rush, a
“whole new world opens up” to you.
That you can go to girl’s houses, and
pass the turkey baster back and forth
like normal people while you partake
in a little gourmet cooking, and stuff
like that. That suddenly you are free
to interact as you’ve always dreamed
you could. So it’s after rush. I’ve been
to girl’s houses, and it’s been fun to
interact normally, but I’ll tell you a
little secret. This “whole new world”
that I’ve entered seems to be
completely different from everybody
else’s.

You are probably one of the
1,700 that has seen that strange girl
hobbling around school, usually
carrying her crutches and looking
very angry, and you think to yourself,
“Hmm, that is odd. Normally one
uses crutches, and propels oneself
forward in space so as not to use a
hurt foot. Why, then, does this strange
girl carry them, and limp?” Well,
friend, that strange girl is none other
than yours truly. And I carry my
crutclies because neither Washington
nor Lee planned this campus with us
handicapped in mind. Now I will
acknowledge for once that it is a nice

bonus that I live on the first ﬂoor of Gaines
(the first ﬂoor bit being the bonus). I just
wish those nine hundred stairs from this
side of the street to the rest of campus (you
know, the ones you see when you stroll to
the Gym from your luxurious dormitory
of Graham-Lees, or the ones you drive past
as you laugh quietly to yourself, because
there is that strange girl hopping up the
stairs one at a time like a two year old)
had an elevator.

If you want to know the background
story, and I’m sure you’ve already heard
it, especially if you are female and you
were anywhere near me in a sorority house,
I was attacked by an inebriated boy on
New Years while I was dancing with him;
he fell forward, taking me down too. The
really nice bit is that he also hit my head
on the stone fireplace, so I was convinced
I had a concussion. Once he managed to
get off of me and stand up, and I realized
that I did not have any major brain damage,
I got up and resumed dancing (without
him). After a while I noticed a blinding
pain in my foot. So I decided to stop
dancing on it.

The perpetrator of the crime felt
marginally bad at this point and was trying

to comfort me by patting my shoulder; I
recommended that he ﬁnd some ice. So he
comes tromping back from the kitchen and
ices my foot with a bag of frozen chicken.
Seriously. Then the bag exploded, and the
raw chicken ﬂew everywhere. They found
pieces of poultry under the couch the next
day, and were very confused, but I digress.
Apparently my foot is “sprained,” (I’ve had
every possible diagnosis for this thing —
break, fracture, contusion, sprain), which,
as many people have informed me, is often
times worse than a break. Awesome. So if
you’re thinking, Golly, that girl has been
walking around with that strange limp, and
wearing a hospital boot for a long time,
just check your calendar and see if it’s been
4-6 weeks since January 1. Yeah, that’s a
long time.

In addition to my foot not being up
to par, I have contracted what is known as
“Oh, You’re Sick Too?” It could be the ﬂu,
but it could be a “ﬂu-like virus.” It doesn’t
really matter to me which it is, because I
still feel crappy, and half the school can
identify with me on this one. So the
appellation of Gaines as the “leper colony”
or “hospital” has become a self—fulﬁlling
prophecy. Perhaps I will soon become

Nothing beats real people. Not even Jude Law and
Nicole Kidman, and not even — this one is hard to
i say — Napoleon Dynamite in all his glory.
 

Siberian — because here I am, lonely as
ever, appreciating to the fullest the fact that
you’re not allowed to hang things on the
wall or interact with other people. And it
takes something MAJORLY important to
get me to leave — I am crippled AND I am
feverish, AND there’s snow (my boot has
pretty poor traction).

So for me, this “whole new world”
that opened up after rush week — it’s the
world of Staying at Home and Watching
Movies When All Your Friends Are Out
world. Don’t be misled by all the
Hollywood glitz and glarnour— yes, I come
into contact with a whole lot of celebrities
this way, and appreciate their art, and feel
more intelligent for it. But once you get
past all the pretty faces and the ﬂash of
the paparazzi cameras, there’s something
missing. I’ve been thinking about it a lot,
because I’ve had a lot of free/feverish time
lately, and as I type this on my deathbed I
think that what’s missing is good old-
fashioned human interaction. I had a grand
total of FOUR visitors and SIX phone calls
in two hours or so, and I think I got
overexcited because I just passed out
afterwards, but the point is that nothing
beats real people. Not even Jude Law and
Nicole Kidman, and not even — this one is
hard to say — Napoleon Dynamite in all
his glory. So when I’m better, and can walk
again, I will leave this land of fantasy and
wonder behind me and join the world of
Oh-Pat-says-she, and where-the-ﬂip-is-
Traveller for real this time.

i 1

 

M(NDAY, JAMJARY24, Z105

“True, we love life, not because we are used to living,
but because we are used to loving.

There is always some madness in love,
but there is also always some reason in madness.”

FFEIIID-IIEIZSCI-E

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 5

Imagine a W&L where peop e actually date

ByEniyEdwads

AFlTS&UFEEDlTOR

With approximately 44 weeks of
Washington and Lee college life behind
me, I have reached the following
conclusion: collegiate dating does not
exist. Before you write me off as a bitter,
cynical, loveless man-hater, hear me out.
What is this phenomenon that we know
as dating? It starts off in grade school.
You know, girl meets boy, girl eats lunch
with boy, girl and boy are now “girlfriend
and boyfriend.” Parents see this as an “aw
shucks, they are too cute for words” event.
Someone send me a trashcan now.

Then comes puberty and those
awkward 7“‘ and 8"‘ grade dances in which
girls stand on one side of the heinously—
decorated gymnasium and boys stand on
the other. Everyone whispers when that
solitary girl makes her way into enemy

 

territory and asks her “crush” if he wants
to dance. The two “dance,” but it is more
like two stick ﬁgures with their hands on
each other’s shoulders swaying back and
forth to the rhythm of a terrible Real
McCoy song.High School.

Not quite college, but definitely not
middle school. Senior guys prey on “fresh
meat.” Girls wear pounds of makeup to
class in hopes of_ getting that much-
coveted date to prom. You’ve got the
holding—hands, making out in the car
before curfew deal. Not really all that
interesting.

The end of high school and arrival
in Lex Vegas. To be perfectly honest,
when I exited I-81 on that sultry August
day, I had absolutely no idea what I was
getting myself into. My first drunken
experience involved drinking a mystery
substance out of a Jim Bean handle at the
Barn. And no, it wasn’t Jim Beam. Jim

E AGAINST THE MUSIC

  

Beam isn’t pink. Sketchy late nights
meant just that- sketchy late night. You
stay up late? Wrong. I learned that frat
basements are hook-up central.

Making babies on the dance ﬂoor
does not constitute a dating relationship,
nor do the 20 or so girls who made their
walk of shame back from Davidson Park
on a cold Sunday morning last February.
Yes, a friend and I sat out and watched
them— it was rather amusing.

I have often wondered how the
social scene at W&L would be different if
more students were in a monogamous
relationship. You’ve seen them, the
absolutely whipped guys who would do
anything for their long-distance girlfriend.
C’mon guys, the girls here are just as good,
if not better, than state school plebs.

Or what about the girls who refuse
to go to a party because their jealous
boyfriend might call? Girls, you need to

Pictured wilhThomasWorthy ‘O5
and Ansel Sanders ‘O4 arethe 2004
Lip Synch champions. The Pi Beta
Pmmmmmmmmnmmmn;
rendition of Britney Spears’ smash
hit, ‘Me Againstthe Music.” Mark
yourcalendarsforthis years’ lip
synch, beneﬁtling Studer1lsAgainst
RockbridgeArea Hunger. The
eventvvill take place on January
28th at the Pavilion. It's not too late
to organize ateam. Show off your
school spiritwhile helping those
lessforlunate.

PHOTO COURTESY Pl BETA PHI

A LOOK BACK... “

FEMALES: KNOW YOUR ROLE...

This inﬂammatory satire appeared in
the 1999 Summer Scholars newspaper.
We can only hope it was a parody.

What can you tell a woman with two
black eyes? Nothing you’ve already told
her twice.

Whatever happened to the good ‘ole
days when women were seen and not
heard? Things have changed since then.
Nowadays it seems all they do is talk, talk,
talk.

From my observations, many
women seem not to care about their
appearance. When did it become attractive
to have jelly rolls or love handles? The
truth is that women have gotten lazy and
fat, and then they try to tell men that it is
beautiful. That isn’t beautiful. It is
disgusting.

Men work hard all day and want to
come home to a hot meal and an attractive,
loving wife. What men are actually

coming home to is quite different. We are
coming home to microwave dinners and
fat women who look like they ate the
woman you married and who take your
money and go shopping.

This whole mess started because we
were too nice to them. We never should
have let them out of the kitchen in the first
place. Now the house is a mess and the
laundry is undone because they have a
career to think about as well.

Take Washington and Lee
University for example. They are
supporting the corruption of our homes
with programs like Summer Scholars.
Girls shouldn’t waste their summers
studying Law or Pre—Medical Studies.
They should take something they will
actually use, like cooking or cleaning.

If she really had her pretty little
head set on working, maybe she could take
a hairstyling course. Anything more
should be out of the question.

There are enough young men to fill
America’s colleges. Women squander
their fathers’ hard-earned money to go read
feminist literature and “experiment” for
four years.

Listen, guys, we need to dig in our
heels before we lose any more ground.
Millions of dollars have gone to waste on
liberal arts education for women. Instead
of learning how to be a good wife to her
husband, she is spending four years
becoming a penis—hating lesbian.

Don’t get me wrong now. Not all
females are bad. Young infants that
haven’t learned to speak yet are ﬁne by
me, as long as they don’t learn any time
soon. Also, there is a small percentage of
women who do know their role and are
quite happy in it.

This article is for the gold-digging
leeches who feast on the blood of innocent
men, who call themselves “independent
women with a mind of their own.”

 

Student

and want to be with you.”

W&L Bool;;<rm’e Presents ,
Book
11 weekly feature of the Bookstore and the lung-‘mm PM

This week:

 

"He's Just Not That Into You" ~- based on a popular episode of
“Sex and the City" «~ educates otherwise smart women on how to
tell when a guy just doesn‘t like them enough, so they can stop
wasting time making excuses for a dead~end relationship.

Reexamining familiar scenarios and classic mindsets that keep us
in unsatisfying relationships, Behrendt and Tuccilio's wise and wry
understanding of the sexes spares women hours of waiting by the
phone, obsessing over the details with sympathetic girlfriends,

and hoping his mixed messages really mean "I‘m in love with you

“Provocative, hilarious, and, above all, intoxicatingly liberating. It
deserves a place on every womarrs night table.” ~Pecple

Regrilur [3?'iCt.'Z $19.95
Tliis wcclxz $17.95

of the Week

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2 , 000 in earnings for your group. Call 'IODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CampusFundraiser.
Contact Cartpusﬁundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

visit www. campusfundraiser . com

lighten up. Your boyfriend shouldn’t
freak out about a frenzied “girls’-night-
out.”

Would frat basements be boring?
Everyone knows that the ideal time to get
a date for Friday or Saturday night’s formal
is to go out on Wednesday night.

Would Wednesday night parties,
such as the legendary Das Klub be extinct?
Sure, the Southern Inn and Cafe Michel
may pick up some business, but someone
has to stand up for sketchy late night.

My beloved Quick Hits section
would be less than entertaining, that’s for
sure. When I think about Quick Hits, one
of the first thoughts that runs into my mind
is the one from last year, “Why aren’t girls
as hot on the Colonnade on Monday
morning as they were at the party Saturday
night?”

always attached to a member of the
opposite sex. Your formal pictures would
be monotonous- same boy with same girl.
Party Pics would be extremely dull. Who
has not logged in the week after Fancy
Dress and found crazy pictures that will
wind up as blackmail photos for future
politicians?

You can only go see so many
movies, and the State Theater is too
overpriced anyway. For the price of two
tickets, two sodas, and a bucket of
popcorn, you could drive to Charlottesville
or Roanoke and pay less money. Do girls
here even eat popcorn?

In short, I am not ranting about my
lack of dates at this school._ I actually ﬁnd
my lack thereof rather amusing. But
sometimes I just have to stop and wonder
how our beloved Lex would be different

Duh, the answers alcohol. Life if we all could put “In a Relationship” on
would be pretty damn boring if we were our Facebook profile.
The 20“ Annual

LIPSYNCH CONTEST

Beneﬁting Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger

Friday, January 28, 2005
Student Activities Pavilion
9pm (Doors Open 8:30)
$10 swipe-home admission

Act Sign-ups Tues. and Wed,

January 25-26 in the Commons
$100 entry fee/act (pay at sign-up)
3 acts/sorority
I act/ fraternity and other recognized student orgs.
Rules handed out at sign-up

Prizes Awarded: Cash and FD Tickets

Contact Thomas Worthy (worthyw@wlu.edu), Chris Lalli
(lallic@wlu.cdu) or John Allgood (allgo0dj@wlu.edu) with.
questions.

#1 SIl|'iII!I BIGBK Vacations

caneun. Jamaica, IGIIIIIIIGII. BIIIEIIIIIIS. 8. Hllﬂllal
B88! Parties, BIBS! IIIIIBIS. BBS! I'I'Il:ﬂS|
Eﬂlllll IIISGDIIIITS. Ilmanlzers Travel HGGI
Sllallﬂ IS Ilmlllll BIIIII KIWI 8. Sallﬂl
1-000-234-7007 VNlW.8IIlIIl!88SIIlIllIIIBl'Il)lll'S.I:IIlll

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for
group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or www.ststrave|.com.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Special‘? Sh“?
273 Raphine Road
Raphlne, VA 24472
s4034os220 - 1-877-Nrr-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy-

Callforworkshop&classinformation.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunton
On I-81 / I-64 at all 205, Rankine 4mt'les west on
Route  Raphine Kind. L()C.’ll’(.'d on“ Working
farm that oﬁers "U~PICA " opp0ﬁuni!l€5f0’ f’9-ll‘
fruit when in season.

'llr -Sat 10:00. 5:00, Wed until 3:00

 _

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MG4DAY, JAMJAHY 24,1115

0[l||l|0|lS

 

Rethink honor

Honor pervades our culture here.

Freshmen constantly question each .

other as to whether an action could be
construed as an Honor Violation.
Don’t lie, even jokingly, or someone
will threaten to call Marie. To their
credit, Washington and Lee students do
strictly abide by the Honor System.

It is only our academic culture,
however, that is affected by honor. We
pledge our papers and exams, and we
truly believe in Honor in that context.

Off the Hill, however, students
do not judge their actions through the
lense of our Honor System. This needs
to change. Honor should be an inherent
aspect of our character, not merely
something we pay homage to in class.

Why not utilize something
students respect as much as the Honor
System to battle a problem as serious
as sexual assault? Educational
programming is underway through
fraternities and sororities and, though
it is an excellent first step, education
alone probably won’t change campus
culture.

Sexual assault occurs on this
campus in part because there is not a
strong social stigma against it. People
brush off sexual assault accusations as
merely a “he said—she said” problem,
or as moming-after regret on the part
of the woman.

The Executive Committee
cannot hear rape cases, for a lack of
expertise and the complications that
such serious criminal accusations
bring. During freshman orientation
about the Honor System, however, the
EC should direct some of its attention
to addressing social situations and
relate the Honor System to all aspects
of life. Publicizing hypothetical honor
cases, thus generating campus
conversation, would go a long way

toward impressing such a stigma -

against sexual assault.

The EC does not claim an action
as an Honor Violation prior to a hearing
because the definition of honor may
evolve with every new student
generation. The EC should, however,
emphasize that students should live
with honor always, especially when
interacting with each other.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions editor Caley Anderson gives
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

Gays entitled to marriage rights

ByBeckyLeMohe

' n£u3ER~.viEw

I remember in high school when one
of my close friends came out of the closet.
Some people were appalled, but most of
his true friends stood by his side. While
homosexuality was an important element
of his personality, I found that he was still
the same person that we had all once
loved. I could not even think of turning
my back on someone who had always been
there for me, who could always make me
laugh, and who was an overall great
human being. Now, it infuriates me that
many of the people in this country would
vote to take away some of the rights that I
feel my friend is entitled to, as a fellow
human being.

As members of a democratic
society, how can we deny same—sex
couples the basic rights that married
heterosexual couples have? Under current
provisions, same—sex couples carmot make
decisions on a partner’s behalf during a
medical emergency, receive social security
benefits in the event of the partner’s death,
jointly share all property and debt,
purchase health coverage for a partner
during a job loss, as well as a number of
other benefits that married heterosexual
couples enjoy. Our state of Virginia is
currently a battleground between gay
rights activists and the supporters of a
Constitutional amendment banning gay
marriage. If the issue passes two separate
sections of the legislature, it will be up to
voters to decide in 2006. That is why it is
such an important issue to discuss now.

I understand that most people
cannot be persuaded to change their
opinion on homosexuality either way; I
myself, as a Christian, do not personally
support it. However, when Christians
quote various verses in the Bible that seem
to refer to homosexuality in a negative
mariner, many forget the basic principles

A of Christianity. Whatever happened to
“love thy neighbor,” learning how to
forgive, and acceptance of differences? I
think that if people are going to use their
religion as a reason not to support gay
rights, they should follow all aspects of
their religion. Otherwise, they are simply
hypocrites. Ultimately, shouldn’t we leave
it up to God to judge? As human beings
and Americans, we have the responsibility

of preserving the rights of every person in
this country, not just the ones whose
personal beliefs match ours.

I think even opponents of
homosexuality should consider the reasons
behind my support of gay rights. I actually
do not think it has anything to do with
whether or not you approve of
homosexuality. It has more to do with the
fact that our society has prospered largely
due to the separation of church and state.
The very countries that we are fighting
against are ruled by religious
fundamentalists; I was under the
impression that our country was different.
As I stated previously, this country prides
itself in its reputation as a free nation; as
such, it is contrary to our country’s
foundations to impose political sanctions
on members of any group, even if that
group is the minority group.

It is vital to consider that throughout
our country's history, various groups have

i fought for political rights. At one time,

many people felt it was morally wrong to
grant suffrage to blacks or women. Now,
in retrospect, most people are appalled by
the actions of the majority during those
time periods. It is possible that in a
hundred years, people will look back on
our society and be horriﬁed by the fact that
we discriminated against people based on
sexual preference. Do we want to be
remembered as an intolerant society, or a
truly free society?

Even if you are personally opposed

to an issue such as gay rights that does I

not mean that you cannot support it
politically. This country was founded on
a separation between church and state.
Church should be the place where
religious leaders preach the evils of
homosexuality to their congregations in an
attempt to persuade them to avoid such
lifestyle choices. That is not the
responsibility of the government and it is
contrary to the rights of the people. To
quote Vice President Dick Cheney, “The
fact of the matter is we live in a free
society, and freedom means freedom for
everybody. And I think that means that
people should be free to enter into any kind
of relationship they want to enter into. It’s
really no one else’s business in terms of
trying to regulate or prohibit behavior in
that regard.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSl'l'Y

THE RING-TUM PHI.

Bush lays out bold plan for
ending “tyranny in our world”

President committed to ensuring freedom

Bystuiewison
CPNC)\$VVHTEi

Doubt, skepticism, and grimaces.
Praise, approval, and applause.
Thursday’s reactions to President Bush’s
second inaugural address were mixed, to
the say the least. In the few days since
heading to Washington to take in the
President’s remarks, I have heard
opinions as caustic as battery acid and
others that laud his speech as the best
ever.

President Bush made some astute,
and it should be noted, historically based
statements about the role of freedom in
developing a just and peaceful world.

In doing so, the President has
renewed an old debate on the question of
imperialism. The issue of how the United
States should approach its role in the
world to confront the global threat of
terrorism is key to his vision.

Near the beginning of his speech
the President proclaimed, “For as long as
whole regions of the world simmer in
resentment and tyranny - prone to
ideologies that feed hatred and excuse
murder — violence will gather, and
multiply in destructive power, and cross
the most defended borders, and raise a
mortal threat.”

The President’s logic is hard to
disagree with. Millions across the globe
resent a United States that they perceive
as greedy, power hungry, and corrupt.
Thousands of extremists, born out of
conditions of warped governments and
blind hatred, would like nothing more
than to bring about our total destruction.

Faced with such a scenario, two
choices are apparent. First, we can sit at
home, sipping on pink lemonade and
watching Desperate Housewives with
crossed fingers, hoping another attack is
not in the making. Second, we can engage
the world through diplomacy and strength
of action, backed by the collective will
of an important concept: freedom. The
ultimate decision should be clear.

Many people lampooned the
President for his repetition of certain
words in his speech. Liberty was
employed fifteen times. Freedom, one
friend told me with a look suggesting
cardiac arrest, was mentioned a whopping
twenty-seven times. Personally, I see little

problem putting emphasis on a central
theme through repetition- especially in
a speech of several thousand words.

The President, through his
statements, realizes the force of human
freedom is not only a potent remedy to
injustice, but a tool that will protect the
United States in the long run. The
survival of our liberty does indeed
depend on the liberty of other nations.

Without a doubt, his comments
on “the expansion of freedom in all the
world....with the ultimate goal of
ending tyranny in our world” raised
eyebrows for many people.

Ending tyranny is a tall order by
nature, and a noble goal. Needless to
say, serious questions arise when one
considers the implications of the
President’s words. Like Santa Claus, are
we to make a list of all the countries
that have been naughty for the year, and
then force democracy on them one by
one? Do we have the right to do so?

President Bush qualified his
remarks through an important corollary
that should diminish such fears. The
task at hand, “is not primarily the task
of arms, though we will defend
ourselves and our friends by force of
arms when necessary.”

President Bush makes clear that
our first recourse is dialogue, but we do
not waver from the threat of conﬂict
with those who irnperil our way of life.
During his first term, the President
backed up his words with firm and
resolute action, and the United States
now has more credibility to undertake
democratic reform.

The President I heard on
inauguration day was both visionary and
eloquent, and he ended his speech with
a message of hope.

“By our efforts, we have lit a ﬁre
as well - a fire in the minds of men. It
warms those who feel its power, it burns
those who ﬁght its progress, and one
day this untamed fire of freedom will
reach the darkest corners of our world.”

As the" United States moves
forward through the next four years, its
citizens can take comfort in the
knowledge that they have a President
who is poised to continue securing the
values, and freedom that his country
cherishes.

Osnow
For me, the novelty has completely
worn off. At least it was warm as of E]-ra;iSiN_CHiEF E;iNEi_izABE-"_iiu_”s 0 0
 em Beware tradition
Oside-to-sidearrows RE
From now on, U s and Downs will ( ‘ ' ) I
.tI'u1y my be ,,i,;’,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,_ mm mm, Tradition used as thoughtless excuse
ASSIST ANT BEVVSEDITOR KATIEIES-EL
0Lip Sync OPNDNSEDH-Q; c~_EyAM]3@q ByKrisl'I1Evms is. This would make tradition no more
How about, in addition to the gong, ASSIS-I-AN-i—OpNONSE3i-i-OR AMEHLEY AGA"‘5TllE‘3*‘A“ than a sorry €XCl1Se.ih d if
we force all the on ed-out acts to For a Campus at pri CS itse On
walk around thegrestg of the week with Am-S&UFEEDn-OR EvI'YE)NAFDS On this campus, tradition is welcoming only the brightest students
paper bags over their heads? PFDTOED”-0:‘ ca:BN1AcKFa:D around us throughout the year. From the that the world has to offer, it also
LAYOJTEDITCRS CI'|ADKEWEl'x.KI& Colonnade to the Liberty Hall ruins, we welcomes some of the most ignorant
0Boo|(store V BVLYI-[LBJ live in a world of traditions. For some people that I have ever encountered.
Who makes purchasing decisions for students, tradition is the reason why they There are people here who have never
the first-ﬂoor bookstore? That person aiSNESSMANAGE:i DAvD£:Eq.i. are here or why they joined a certain seen or. known anything beyond their
deserves a gigantic raise for doing a CFCuiA_i_K)\iDiRECT0:i lam" fraterruty, or even why they chose their social circle. There are people here who
lot with a iittie his one of the best major. Tradition has become a way of read a single book and then believe that
bookstores I’ve seen, despite its size. ASSSTANT aRalA1UV   life- 1 1 I h b theii; haV° Wisdom t0 Shafepon 3: mliiic
E..l?ABEll-IFKEVSGJ However, ate y ave ecome wi out ever experiencing it. eop ew o
0A|°°h°i debate yNyANu i dissatisfied with this lifestyle._ What is claim to know how the world works but
Apparent peace for the moment, but Fa_iANPa1iARA tradition anyway? According to the have never truly been beyond their own
iiniess the Great Commonwealth of Oxford Enghsli Dictionary tradition backyard. Then there are the people who
Virginia lowers its drinking age, CGDYEITGB MMiDAin{x-KE 1: ithat  ifs thus hgndeiii d0Vl/‘Kilt; zdi live by tragiitiioipd becaiiiise that s what
Someoiieis always going“) havca V saemen,H ie iorprac ce  e momrriyian 3 ysai .i d i d
legitimate Compiaim. Af‘£AAH§ (esp. ora ny) rom genera ion to O _ ease 0 not misun ers an ,
m@  generation. tradition is not our archenemy. However,

()111e 90s
Not just the decade, which was

I ‘*~\_excellent, but also the numbers

themselves. I mean, if you take a red
pen and wiite “97” on something you
wrote, it gives you a warm feeling
inside. Ormaybe that’s just me.

0TheSuper Bowl

The AFC Champ will win, and I didn’t
even know who that was when I wrote
this.

0 E.C.

On the eve of Budget hearings, I
would just like to remind the E.C. that
they are wonderful people.

ﬂ1eFi'ig-amHvlsptbisl’edMmdaysdumgmeuridergradiiatesi:mdyear
atWash'ngtonandLeeUniveisity, Lexington, Wgnia
ﬂ1eFﬁ1g-unHﬂsanierrberdThePLUknﬁmsBoam,bmSoﬂieMbeirdependem


Allstbrriissionsmiistbee-rrailedtophi@vvlu.eduorintheUniveIsilyCenterrnaR>oxby5p.m.
Friclaytoappearinthetollovvvingi/veeksecitiori.
'lheFihg-turnPhireserves1he righttoeditsibrnissiorisforoontentaridlenglh.
Leﬁesaﬂodwnrsdoridneoessarilymﬂedteopinmdﬂwliiy-mmHﬁEdmdalBoam.
Adveitisirigdoesnotretlecxtheopinionsot 7heFthg-tumPrioritss1aﬁ.
Thisnevvspaperobsewesainemowndetiniﬁmsotlibelandobsoemiy.

7heRhg4iml=h“
UniversilyConmonsRoorn.341
Wash'nglmandLeeUriversily
Lex'ngm,Virg‘nia24450
Teiephone:(540)4584060
Fa>c(540)458-4059
Emal'phi@w|u.edu
Subsor'ptionrate$40

As I pondered this definition in
an attempt to locate the source of my
frustrations, I realized that tradition has
become a crutch. I remembered the
many times that I asked questions like
“why there is an ‘old south’ party” and
how the only response I was offered was
“it is tradition.” In that moment I
discovered that this thing called tradition
is no longer acceptable.

Tradition creates indifference.
Instead of debating and proving a point,
one simple word explains it all. My
biggest fear is that the reason tradition
is the answer is the fact that no one
knows the true answer, or that everyone
is afraid to say what that answer really

we must be careful how we use tradition;
if we are not, tradition will become no
more than a word.

If you keep traditions but carmot
explain why and if you ignore the
meaning of your traditions at their core
and inception but continue to follow
them, you are contributing to the demise
of tradition. You are degrading
something that could have meaning. So
examine your traditions, make sure that
they have true meaning. If not, you are
just another sad individual, peeking out
from behind a shallow argument when
you use tradition as an explanation and
I warn you now, be prepared to defend
yourself.

 

MG‘DAY,JA|\UAHY 241,315

“I wanted to be a cool mom.”
— QUOTE OF THE WEEKACo|oiadorriotherwhoheldorgypai'tlesforher

THERING-TUMPHI 0 7 _

Cadets deserve
W&L’s respect

Life at VMI proves
much harder than
most of us think

ByCdeyAnderson

It/If"-lATE’SNlS‘%

In the vicinity of a weekend
party not too long ago, I was witness
to a very strange spectacle, a
conversation between two people. On
the right, a fratty—haired guy wearing
jeans, whom I know fairly well. On
the left, a guy with close-cut hair,
wearing an immaculate suit and khakis,
and wearing a gigantic ring. It will be
evident to veterans of the big Lex that
this was a conversation between a
W&Ler and a Cadet.

It was the tail end of the
conversation, and the W&L student
was saying something to this effect-
“N o offense, but I really think that life
at VMI can’t be that hard. I mean, you
have those military trappings, but really
it’s just a public school, the academic
load can’t be as heavy as it is here.”

I think that neither school in
Lexington gives the other the respect
it deserves, but I think the problem is
worse on this side of Letcher Avenue,
so this column will be a two-part look
at how they do things over there,
because VMI and W&L definitely
change their students in different ways.
The first part of this look at the school
across the way will examine the rigors
of the first year at VMI, as well as the
incredible stress that all the cadets take
on through their four years.

Few appreciate how difficult
the freshman year at VMI really is.
There is a protective shield of levity
that surrounds the rats, so it’s often
tough to ascertain how rough they
really have it. They are called rats, and
they are rats. They are literally inferior
human beings. They must salute, they
must walk an imaginary line, the
“ratline,” on the outside corner of the
barracks’ halls. Their life is one that
makes most frat pledgeships look
comic. They are terrorized by most of
the rest of the Corps from day one,
continuing on for about ﬁve months,
day in, day out. Their life is a hell of
push-ups and screaming faces, of sweat
parties and waking up before dawn.
“Privacy” and “Free time” do not exist.
For this reason, a typical VMI freshman
class suffers attrition of around 20%-
sometirnes even the most physically ﬁt
rats quit because they can’t handle the
mental pressure. But friendships are
formed between classmates that are
unbreakable. Faced with an almost
insumiountable stress, the freshmen
turn to each other for support. Men in
their 60s have referred to each other as
“brother rats,” for the bonds that are
created in such stress are difficult to
strain. The life of a freshman at W&L
is not comparable. I’m not saying that
either is preferable, that’s an individual
choice, but I think that when you say
that W&L is more challenging, you’re
‘making an apples to oranges
comparison.

And the academics are
certainly n_ot easy. VMI is the nation’s
leading public liberal arts school for a
reason. At W&L, our unofficial motto
is “Work hard, play hard.” The VMI
equivalent might be “work hard, then
work some more, and then more.” The
academics may or may not be as
challenging as W&L’s, but in
combination with the fact that there’s
little or no down time because of the
military life, and the grinding schedule
gets to a lot of people. Classes have
graduated from VMI with less than half
the students they began with; the
majority of students in such classes
simply feel crushed under the weight
of their obligations and the largely
gloomy world they inhabit.

Next week, a look at the
scheduled life of a cadet, their Honor

System, and various other VMI J

sundries.

Abortion still a moral horror

But on Roe V. Wade anniversary, pro—life movement making progress

ByTheresaDoug1ei1y

O’l\ﬂ*SWHTER

This past Saturday, January 22,
marked the thirty-second anniversary of
the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision
that made abortion legal in the United
States. This Monday, thousands of people,
myself included, will be marching on the
Supreme Court to protest the decision that,
to date, has ended the lives of 46 million
unborn children.

In the Declaration of
Independence, Thomas Jefferson wrote
these words: “We hold these truths to be
self-evident, that all men are created equal,
that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain unalienable Rights, that among
these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of
Happiness.” The language that Jefferson
uses here tells us that all are created equal,
not born equal. Thus those that have
already been created and not yet born
should be entitled to these same rights that
those that are outside the womb have: life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Abortion is a clear violation of each of
these fundamental rights: it robs the
unborn of life, thus depriving its chance
of ever experiencing liberty or happiness.
Just because we outside the womb already
enjoy these rights does not give us the
power to deny them to others.

Many in the pro-choice movement

would argue that it is a woman’s body and
the state should not interfere in the
decisions that she makes regarding her
body. I believe this is absolutely true —
the state should not interfere with a
woman’s body. However, this does not
apply to abortion, as abortion clearly
involves two ‘distinct bodies: that of the
woman and her child. The government
has made many laws regarding how
individuals can and cannot interact with
each other. You may get into an argument
with a person, but you may not strike, rape,
or kill them. Once a decision affects more
than one person, privacy is breached and
the government can become involved. In
regards to abortion, the government should
become involved, because it ends in the
destruction of at least one person’s life.
As Thomas Jefferson wrote, “The care of
human life and happiness and not their
destruction is the first and only legitimate
object of good government.” Here, the
preservation of human life should be more
important than the right to privacy.

The last article that I read in the
Ring-Tum Phi about the abortion issue was
from a pro-choice angle, and made the
argument that since women will always
be getting abortions, it’s better to keep
them safe and legal. To me, this argument
does not stand at all. Well, stealing will
always happen, so why don’tvwe stop
selling alarms so the burglars can get in
and out unnoticed? Murder will always

happen, so why don’t we give out knives
or guns with silencers to make it easier? I
also have heard the argument that if
abortion is made illegal or parental
notiﬁcations required for abortions, then
more women will resort to hurting
themselves to end an unwanted pregnancy,
possibly ending in the death of both
individuals. To me, this is more of an issue
having to deal with the lack of support in
the social structure rather than a problem
stemming from abortion itself. Abortion
is a symptom of the greater social problem
of discrimination against women and the
lack of resources available to them. There
is no such thing as an unwanted child:
there are plenty of women out there
incapable of having children of their own
or singles and couples who want to adopt.
It also disgusts me that some people
believe that abortion is alright if you
discover your child has a disability or
genetic disorder or if your child was
conceived through rape. As someone with
two genetic diseases, I am offended that
someone would see me in the womb and
think they have the right to end my life.
Having at least one person in my life who
was conceived through rape, I am again
offended by the thought that someone
would think it was acceptable to end her
life. I do not know what it is like to be
raped, but I would guess that the emotional
trauma of the actual rape followed by the
decision to have an abortion could only

inﬂict further emotional, physical, and
mental harm on the woman. I too am pro-
choice: the difference is that I believe
abortion should not be a choice.

The pro—life movement has won
two huge victories in the past few years.
First, President Bush signed into law the
Partial Birth Abortion Ban, finally
outlawing the cruel and unusual procedure
that ends the life of unborn children by

vacuuming out their brains. Several states ' .

are ﬁghting this law, and Nebraska’s was
recently overturned due to the fact that it
did not include an exceptions clause for

the life of the mother. In addition, Laci ~ ‘

and Conner’s Law was passed, which
recognizes the death of two individuals
when a pregnant woman is murdered. This
is a huge step forward because this law
acknowledges the two distinct individuals
victimized by the crime.

Science proves that when a woman
is pregnant, there are two separate beings,

two different DNA codes, and two »;
different hearts beating. To deny this and ’,

allow abortions to continue is to deny a
simple common moral and natural law:
thou shalt not kill. To end, this quote is

from a woman named Norma McCorvey, ‘
whom most would know as Jane Roe in -

the Roe v. Wade decision: “I am dedicated
to spending the rest of my life undoing
the law that bears my name.”

Effort must be made at W&L
to improve int’l learning

Dear Editor,

All of us remember where we were
on September 11th, 2001. I had just begun
my college career at W & L, and on my
way back to the dorms after a geology
class, my friend Mike Kearney told me a
plane had ﬂown into one of the World
Trade Center towers.

I remember getting back to my
room, sitting on my couch, and watching
in disbelief as the second plane struck the
other tower. For all of us, whether we
realized it or not, the world changed that
day.

We soon learned that instability in
a country as distant and remote as
Afghanistan could affect our own security.
Republicans and Democrats agreed:
America had a new role to play in the
world.

But I believe the challenge is
broader than that: all Americans have a
new role to play in the world. We now
have the responsibility to understand other
cultures and help them understand our
own. In the future, global peace and
prosperity will depend on that.

Despite this new challenge, only 20
percent of Americans even have passports.
At W & L, less than half of all students
have had a significant international
experience, with most of those occurring
over the shortened spring term or the
summer months. Those figures are as
dangerous as they are disheartening.

Yet, I believe our university—our
community—can do something about that,
first by creating a chapter of Americans
for Informed Democracy (AID) on our
campus. AID is a non—partisan 501 (c)(3)
organization working to raise global

awareness on more than 175 U.S.
university campuses and in more than 10
countries. AID fulfills its mission by
coordinating town hall meetings on
America’s role in the world, hosting
leadership retreats, and publishing opinion
pieces and reports on issues of global
importance. Through these efforts, AID
seeks to build a new generation of globally
conscious leaders who can shape an
American foreign policy appropriate for
our increasingly interdependent world.

A chapter of AID at W & L will also
harness the experiences of our students
who have studied abroad and our
international students, enriching our
campus and inspiring other students to
travel overseas. Beyond that, I hope our
administration will make study abroad a
new university priority and perhaps
consider making it, in the future, a
requirement for graduation.

Recognizing the new challenges the
world faces, President of Harvard
University, Larry Surrirners, said at a recent
speech: “I hope we’ll be able to look
forward to the day when in one way or
another, over the summer or during the
term or between semesters, every Harvard
student will have had a significant
international experience.” I believe
Washington and Lee should contribute to
that effort and share its concepts of civility
and honor, not just with this region or this
country, but with the entire world.

If you are interested in starting this

- new organization, please contact Matt

Yohe at yohem@wlu.edu.

Sincerely,
Matt Yohe ‘05

Reader points out APA inaccuracies

Dear Editor,

In Monday’s paper, under the article
“Fact or Fiction - The Greeks”, the myth
that Alpha Phi Alpha was moving into the
Beta house was cleared up. While I’m
grateful that this rumor was dispelled, I
was deeply troubled at the author’s
description of APA as a “newly formed
African-American fraternity”. The reason
behind this is because APA was

established in 1906 and has continued to
thrive on other campuses since then. While
this may seem as a minor mistake, you
have to understand that the reason there is
so much resistance to bringing the Alphas"
on campus is because people are under the
impression that this organization has been

developed recently so that blacks have
their “own frat” to join. It also disturbs
me at the lack of research that has gone
into any story concerning the Alphas. I do
believe that all good journalists must
research a topic before publishing a story

_ and not base their articles on hear-say. If

you would like to know more about Alpha
Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. please visit this
website : : /www.al hial ha.net/.
Also could you please issue a correction
and maybe if you find the website helpful,
have a staff member take the time to write
a comprehensive article on the Alphas.

I you and have a wonderful day.

Sincerely,
Cherrelle Moser

Ever since I was a youngster
growing up in the 1960s, I have
considered the Reverend Dr. Martin

America’s greatest heroes.‘ He dedicated
his life to setting people free from
discrimination and to promoting equality

massive non—violent protest and civil
disobedience, he was more responsible
than any other single individual for
defeating Jim Crow segregation in the
South. A wellspring of inspiration and
bedrock of support for the civil rights
movement in the South were the black
churches. Rev. King understood and
articulated so eloquently the simple truth
that we are all God's children and as such
have an innate and equal dignity that is
deserving of respect. During a time
when Americans of African descent in
the South were legally prevented from
attending the same schools, swimming
in the same pools, eating at the same
lunch counters, and using the same
public toilets as white people, the black
church provided a safe haven from
pervasive humiliation. Everybody who
entered its doors was somebody. What
gave Rev. King the calm and inspiring
courage to face imprisonment, attacks by

assassination was his unshakeable faith
in the righteousness of his cause and the
conﬁdence he had in eventual victory.
In the end, Rev. King gave his life in the
pursuit of liberty and equality.
Thirteen organizations and
university departments agreed to
commemorate Rev. King’s legacy by
pooling their resources to invite Angela
Davis to speak in Lee Chapel. I believe
that this decision was a mistake. Ms.
Davis’ political activism originally
emerged in reaction to the same
abhorrent conditions of segregation and
oppression that Dr. King witnessed;
however, she chose a much different path
to follow. Imbibing in the atheistic,
existentialist writings of J ean-Paul Sartre
in Europe in the 1960s, she subsequently
returned to the U.S. to pursue graduate
studies with the doyen of U.S. academic
Marxists, Herbert Marcuse. Davis
accepted the Marxist world view, which
had its roots in nineteenth-century
atheistic materialism. She joined the
Communist Party USA (CPUSA), which
to this day remains committed to
working-class revolution. Communism
in the Soviet Union, China, and
elsewhere was horribly repressive and

Luther King, Jr., to have been one of

of opportunity. Following the path of

police dogs, and the threat of

responsible for the deaths of tens of

Bringing-Davis a mistake

millions of its own countrymen in the ‘ i

twentieth century, and we know today
that the CPUSA received substantial

funding from the Soviet Union. 5

Evidently, Ms. Davis found much to
emulate in the communist world.

Davis aclmowledges that she was
a member of the CPUSA but seems
reluctant to mention that she twice ran
for U.S. Vice President on the CPUSA
ticket. In 1980 she and long—time
CPUSA leader Gus Hall received just
under 44,000 votes (in comparison to
more than 79 million cast for Reagan and
Carter combined). Undaunted, Hall and
Davis ran again in 1984 and saw their
vote tally drop to just over 36,000. Davis
never seemed to ‘grasp the irony that she
could run as a communist in the U.S. but
that countries that had communist
governments refused to hold free
elections. When communist Poland
broke the mold and allowed the
democratic Solidarity movement to ﬁeld
candidates in June 1989, the communists
there did little better than Hall and Davis.
They lost every seat in the Polish Sejm,
which Solidarity was allowed to contest.
Those Polish elections marked the
beginning of the fall of communism
throughout Eastern Europe.

Ms. Davis received $15,000 (not
counting expenses) for her visit to W&L.
I wish that that money had been spent in
any of a number of other ways to
commemorate Rev. King. It could have

been given to my friend and colleague ' - ‘

Dr. Ted DeLaney to give him a higher
profile for telling the story of
desegregation in Virginia, including his

own. Dr. DeLaney grew up in Lexington ‘ I

but could not attend W&L right after
high school because of the color of his
skin. Instead, he worked for a while in
our chemistry lab washing test tubes.
Later, however, he graduated from W&L
and is now a tenured member of the
History Department and an esteemed
campus leader. The money might have

been devoted to expanding upon his oral ’ I .'
history of school desegregation in this ' «

area. As an alternative, in the spirit of
Rev. King’s concern for lifting up the
poor, it might have been devoted to Dr.
Beckley’s Shepherd Poverty Program.

Or maybe to those who have been i ‘

ravaged on a distant shore — to the
tsunami survivors. I’m conﬁdent that

Rev. King would have supported all of f ~ ‘

these endeavors.

Sincerely yours,
Richard Bidlack
History Department

 

8 0 THERNG-'l1MP|'I

MGQDAY, JAMJARY M215

Iastword

l\

-Let’s break out the booze and have
a ball, if that’s all there is.

-Will Lewis leads a double
life....ask him about it.

-Brett was our savior last night.
When Domino’s was closed, he was
there. Thank you, Brett. Enjoy your
snack cakes.

IWaiting over 30 minutes for

takeout sushi = not cool. How long
does it take to roll an Alaska roll?

-Biggest letdown of the year:
Blizzard 2005. Laaaaaame.

-“Think again”

-Who else misses pledge costume
day?

-Don’t you just love hazing?

'Tcmorrow is National Booty Call
Day...enjoy!

II ﬁgured it out — Tom Burish is just
Adam Hutchison’s puppet for turning
this school as gay as Williams or
Amherst or wherever he went.

-If I don’t make it to the gym this
week to work off this freshman
fifteen, someone please smack me
with a frat boy’s paddle.

-On my way to class I overheard
one student exclaim, “Vicious tit!” in
response to the weather.

-Jeb, we’re sorry we rolled you out
of the ofﬁce, now you see why.

-Contrary to popular belief, the
sandboxes outside every door are not
trash cans disguised as ashtrays.
They're just ashtrays.

.Falcon boy... why did you leave
me?

Iln response to the attacks on
Andrew Rothey...suck it up; they’re
just opinions!

II feel like a truck hit me, then
reversed and hit me again...crazy

night

-Jeb Brooks, aka. Lady's Man,
Man’s Man, Man About Town

.Hangover: The wrath of grapes.

-There’s a strange boy sleeping on
the ﬂoor of our den...

-Ice skating = one of the worst
choices I made at W&L

-The professors at the Palms were
laughing at me

'1 hope the wind does not blow

[away my lingering euphoria from last

night

lSex is one of those essential
needs. . .like air, water and chocolate

-I’m not a vegetarian because I love
animals. I’m a vegetarian because I
hate plants.

-Apologies to everyone I poured
beer on while dancing.

-1 feel like I look.
IWho put up my last away message?

II’m not sure she even has real‘
human feelings.

 

'1 would rather share one lifetime
with you, than face all the ages of this
world alone

.My life kicks ass.

-MCAT, I’m going to whoop your
ass.

ICarbon Leaf is going to be in
Charlottesville on Friday.

I“It’s just really sexy chemistry.”-
Dr. Uffelman

-My grandmother said you were
very pretty and she’s glad we’re
friends

-I will stop grounding myself when
the bruises I don’t remember getting

have healed.

-Erin “Ring-tum Sexy” Julius... we
didn’t Sély it, the Trident did

-Hey, I have a small mouth.

'How are those boots working out
for your new life?

IIt’s not vengeance, it’s just a good
idea inspired by someone else’s

misery.

-Walker and David totally put the
God in Godwin.

ILaw students throw the best pants-
optional parties.

IGo Eagles!

IHow does one have sex like a

volcano?

IYou better check yo’self before you
wreck yo’self.

.Lindsey Hagerman is the life of
EVERY party.

llack Handy — It takes a big man
to cry, but it takes a bigger man to
laugh at that man.

ILansing Michigan law — If dwarf
tossing becomes a spectator sport
you must obtain a permit.

IA mother has been arrested on
charges that she gave crack to her
4-year-old son to “calm him down."

llohnny Carson died Sunday
morning at the age of 79.

I‘”I'ed, strange things are afoot at
the Circle K” -

.99 percent of lawyers give the
rest apbad name.

IBeing 21 is so dominant.... No
matter what anyone says, it never
gets old.

-It’s amazing how many people
forget to bring their ID to band
parties.

IThe Palms bartenders are still
talking about Erin Julius’ blowjob
shot. '

ITo the concerned KA at
Shitkickers, it was very nice to see
you looking out for us girls.

The Phi welcomes your anonymously submitted Quick Hits,  1
rants, raves, and tales of drunken debauchery sent to phi@ulu.edu
 

 

Proactive action needed to promote sleep

Byxrisuneeary

NILKN\DCl-EESEGlFl

This week I am going to write about
a topic near to EVERY college students
life — Greek or independent, drinker or
non-drinker, freshman or senior: sleep.
Sleep, for most of us, is a sacred and
cherished activity. However, in our super-
busy, work-ﬁlled, fun-ﬁlled lives, often we
don’t get enough of it. Sometimes, we
even starve ourselves of the zzzzzz’s, and
the results of that are simply painful.

I know that in my own personal
experience that as I lose more and more
shut—eye to the demands of Washington
and Lee, I find myself depending more and
more on caffeine to stay awake during the
day. Formerly, I was anti-coffee and anti-
pop. (Yes, I say “pop.” I am from the
Midwest, and that is how we say it there.
No matter how long I live in Virginia, I
refuse to reform. Go ahead and laugh.)
Then exam week happened. And although
I have yet to resort to caffeine pills or Red
Bull, I can no longer forgo this crutch.
Actually, it’s almost a requisite to stop by
the co-op at least once if I plan to make it
past eleven o’clock at night.

Because I am a nerd, I decided to
do some detective work for this article. I
turned to the American Beverage

Association and Google to find out just
how much of my lifesaver is contained in
some of the nation’s favorite drinks. In
fact, thanks to my research I can ﬁnally
solve the biggest debate of the century.
While Diet Pepsi has 37 mg per 12 ounces,
Diet Coke has 45. Clearly, we have a
winner. AMP Energy Drink has 75 mg of
caffeine per 8 ounces, which is trounced
by Red Bull, which rings in with an
astounding 80 mg. A Starbucks coffee
Frappuccino has 83 mg of the good stuff.

Utilizing my math skills, I quickly
calculated my own caffeine intake.
Houston, I think we have a problem!
Unfortunately, being new to the game, I
know I am not nearly as dependent on
coffee and pop (I wrote it again! Ha! Take
that!) as the next person. So, clearly, we
have a campus-wide crisis. Frankly, I think
the administration is being hypocritical.
The deans are spending so much time and
effort trying to eliminate student alcohol
usage while ignoring what is clearly a far
more pervasive problem — a student body
wide addiction to a drug that can cause
the shakes, mess with one’s circadian
rhythm, and cause indigestion —to put it
nicely- problems.

I call for action to be taken.
Proactive board members like ours surely
cannot ignore our plight. They, to remain

in good conscience, must work to alleviate
the factors influencing our drug
dependence. And luckily for them, I have
taken the time to come up with a solution
to what is clearly a debilitating disease.

First of all, W & L should institute
a campus-wide naptime. I personally
would prefer it to be scheduled from 1 to
3, but I am definitely open to negotiations.

Secondly, “I was too tired to come
to class” should be an acceptable excuse
for missing any lecture course scheduled
before noon. And “I studied so long that I
didn’t make it to bed until 3 am” should
qualify a student for at least a few points
of extra credit. On the same note, “I was
up all night writing but I just couldn’t
fmish this” should be good for at least a
weeklong extension.

Finally, until our bodies are well
rested, we shouldn’t be expected to give

up our reliance on caffeine. Quitting cold,

turkey could cause severe withdrawal
symptoms. So, in remedy, I suggest that
dining services let Starbucks coffee ﬂow
freely into our wide-open and receptive
mouths.

Serious actions must be taken to
solve a serious problem. But I am really
too tired to think about it anymore. Maybe
after I’ve ﬁnished my nap. ..

Marsha

Bynrasrunue
FOTATOIWW

“This is the biggest mistake you
have ever made in your life.” It always
warms my heart to hear my own mother
say that. While I know she is exaggerating
about the gravity of my error in judgment,
it did make me think about the other
mistakes I have made in my life. and trust
me, there have been many.

My mistake this week cost my
mother a hundred dollars. While one
hundred dollars isn’t a lot of money
(especially to the W&L student body as a
whole), my mom lost more than that. She
went on about trust and responsibility and
something else... I don’t know, I wasn’t
really listening.

Instead of listening, I was thinking
about 7th grade. I was thinking about
getting the invitation to a Halloween Party
from the 8th grade popular girl. She was
older, smarter, more beautiful, and more
experienced than those 7th grade girls, and
I was in love with her. I had never been
to a big party before, and made sure to
ask my best friend about what might
happen at this party. I

My friend was not invited to
this party, and felt it necessary
to ruin my chances with a
girl that was almost in
high school. He told
me the party
would be
lame, and I

screws up again

should hang out with him and watch scary
movies instead. I, for some unknown
reason, listened to my friend, and stayed
away from the party.

When I got back to school Monday,
I had learned the extent of my mistake.

This party had it all. It had dancing, a
3:1 girl to guy ratio, Truth or Dare and
even Spin the Bottle. And instead, I had
spent my night watching a movie in my
friend’s room. The love of my life walked
up to me that Monday, said she missed me
at the party, and then walked out of my
life forever.

Now that was a mistake. That was
a missed opportunity. That mistake is right
up there with dropping an interception in
a high school football game that would
have taken us to the State Championship
game. That is up there with forgetting to
wear underwear to work out. Now these
are real mistakes.

Mistakes are waking up Sunday
morning and having to sneak out of your
room before the stranger in your bed wakes
up. Mistakes are what you wore to school
8 years ago. Mullets are mistakes.

 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
    

Over the last few days I have had
memories of mistakes randomly pop into
my head. Every time I think that I have
remembered all of my mistakes in life,
another one pops up. It has reminded me
just how stupid I can be sometimes.

Sometimes I do the dumbest things.

There was a period of a few weeks in
middle school where I was too lazy to
brush my teeth. I would just throw some
Listerine in my mouth, scrape off the
plaque with my ﬁngernail and be on my
way. There was also a period of time in
elementary school where I didn’t use soap
in the shower (if you hadn’t noticed,
before high school, I ‘was the smelly
kid...what arnl saying, I still am the smelly
kid).

My mom is still a little mad at me,
but not because I cost her a hundred
dollars. She is mad because sometimes I
don’t think straight. Sometimes, I, just
like any other living organism, make
mistakes. And she doesn’t let me settle
for being a normal living organism, that’s
why I love her. And in two days she'll
forget all of this and won’t even remember
the hundred dollars. But I will always
remember that girl in middle school.

So, Ashley, wherever you are.
if the offer’s still on the table, let’s
go hang out. l’ll bring the

empty bottle, and you
bring your four closest
girl friends.

EMILY HULEN I
STAFF ILLUSTRATION

€3’!%-75$
R552.
v.IO'7
mole

“THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING=TUM PHI.

MG‘DAY,JAMlARY31,%

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

It
 £1°

THIS ISSUE

To our readers, subscribers and the
Washington and Lee community,

In our letter last week we said that at
this point in The Ring—tum Phi’s
history, we wanted to communicate
to our readers that we are a paper of
dignity, respect and Washington and
Lee history. As such we have the
responsibility to apologize for
offensive made in our paper in the
“QuickHits” section. To anyone
who has been offended by any of
these anonymous “hits” in the last
year and a half, we are sorry. The
section has been revised and will
begin in its new, responsible form
next week (see staff editorial).

WHAT’S INSIDE

 

FIsI1'ngfOrLaJd'Is

New columnist Hugh “The
Fisherman” Trout teams up for the
first time with Marshall Rule and
Kristine Early on the Last Word.
See more on page 8

HOT TICKET

 

Raisetheﬁoof

Carbon Leaf comes to Lexington to
perform hits from their latest album,
“Indian Summer.” Playing at 10:00
p.m., Fri., Feb. 4, at the Lambda Chi
Alpha house at 225 E. Nelson St.

Healthcareforsale

Consumer Uriion’s economics and
health reporter Trudy Lieberman
speaks in the Commons theater at
4:30 p.m. on Wed., Feb. 2. Free.

Venonaugit

Acting Company stops by Lenfest to
perform Shakespeare’s “Two
Gentlemen of Verona” at 8 p.m. on
Tues., Feb. 1.

‘ SIMPLE LIFE

Makeyourroomawinterhaven
If you have to stay inside to avoid the
wintry weather, the normal room can
quickly feel drab and dreary if it
doesn’t drive you stir—crazy. Here are
some tips that will spruce it up and
bring friends ﬂocking to your door.

ITum off the overhead ﬂuorescent
lights and stick to table or ﬂoor
lamps that start at around $14 at
Walmart — we recommend 40-60 watt
bulbs to give the room a more
romantic light as well as prevent
these little sources of heat from
transforming your room into a
furnace.

-A potted plant or small bouquet
gives the room life when the once-
green world outside is asleep under
the snow. Add a splash of hydrogen
peroxide to the vase’s water supply to
keep your ﬂowers alive longer.
-Keep a stash of hot cocoa ready for
that unexpected visitor and maybe
even a box of ginger snaps for them
to enjoy.

-Usually keep those shades drawn -
tight? With the campus covered in
snow, why hide such a view? You’ll
be even more in the mood for winter
if you’re always reminded that Jack
Frost has indeed coated Lexington"
with a beautiful blanket of white.

Internet

ByErinJuius

' E

The Virginia Military Institute made
national news this week after photographs
surfaced featuring Cadets dressed in
costumes parodying Nazis, drag queens
and a starving African.

For this past Halloween, VMI first-
classmen dressed up rats in an array of
costumes for a school-sanctioned party.
The event took place in Barracks.

The Drudge Report, The Roanoke
Times and other national media picked up
this story after photographs of cadets in

the more controversial costumes were
posted on an internet chat room
unaffiliated with VMI.

“Every year we have a costume
party or “rat trick-or—treating,” said Paul
Bryan, the Regimental S-5 Captain in
charge of public affairs. “The idea is to
dress your rats up and see who can get the
most attention...someone was thinking
more about trying to be noticed and they
went overboar .”

“People were pretty upset. Every
year we dress up the freshmen,” said
Andrew Upshaw, S-5 Sergeant. “The
whole Corps is embarassed.”

According to Upshaw the Corps is

upset that people, “look at our school like
there are Nazis at VMI. It was taken out
of context...VMI holds itself to a higher
standard,” he said. “When someone
breaks that standard it falls on the whole
Corps.”

VMI’s Officer of the Guard
Association, made up of Cadets, will
investigate the photographs and report its
ﬁndings to the General Committee, which
is responsible for recommending
disciplinary action. The General
Committee is comprised of Cadets from
the upper three classes at VMI.

“I can say there wasn’t any
malicious intent,” Bryan said, “they were

webshots shock the Institute

not trying to make a statement.”

Possible punishment for anyone
convicted of “conduct unbecoming of a
cadet” can include conﬁnement, when a
cadet caxmot leave post, and penalty tours,
when a cadet marches for an hour with
his riﬂe.

Those guilty of involvement in the
pictures are looking at charges of “conduct
unbecoming of a cadet.” VMI’s
administration will also have input into the
disciplinary action taken.

Most Cadets resent VMI’s recent
national attention “VMI really strives to
promote civility—this doesn’t help to
show that civility,” Bryan said.

Pmhddebgabspresanawum0ansoq1abdedh1gMmsexialassauﬂdiagesmcanms.

    

CORBIN BLACKFOFID / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Students voice opinions on campus life

Bysadilvlnay

IVEVVSEDITCR

Greek students of all years and
afﬁliations addressed campus issues last
Saturday at Day of Dialogue, the annual
discussion forum sponsored by
Panhellenic Council and the Interfratemity
Council. While the main topic was sexual
assault, the event allowed Greeks to air
their concerns about other problems and
propose solutions.

“I think there were a lot of
perceptions changed,” said Karlyn Gold,
new Parihel president. “People heard what
other people were saying."

Students first watched a mock trial
of a sexual assault case in Evans Dining
Hall. Members of W&L’s Mock Trial
Association presented both sides of an
acquaintance rape case that involved
alcohol and many ambiguities——details
that characterize and complicate many
sexual assault situations.

Afterwards, participants split off
into discussion groups that mixed students
of different genders, ages, and affiliations.
Under the guidance of trained discussion

 

leaders, the groups held conversations
about negative attitudes and actions at
W&L, offering differing points of view.
insights, and suggestions. While the
exchange began with questions on the trial
and campus assault, students soon
branched out.

“Some talked about sexual assault,
but a lot talked about the elirriination of
differences between men and women on
campus,” said Gold. Many of these
students pointed out the incredible
difference between freshman year, when
male and female students live, eat, and
work together, and the stark divisions of
other years, when students separate along
gender lines after joining a Greek
organization. Some suggested that the
near—estrangement could be responsible
for the attitudes that result in W&L’s
above-average sexual assault statistics.

As a result, students called for more
interaction outside of the party scene.
Some recommended that the fraternities
eat lunch on a schedule rotating them
through the sorority houses. Others called
for Greek—sponsored sober activities as a
way to bring together different groups.

“The Commons has so many

THETA COUNTRY-GIRLS STEAL SHOW

programs, but people are not going to
them,” Gold pointed out.

Other topics included depression,
eating disorders, drunk driving, and
communication between the
administration and the student body.

Afterwards, the group facilitators
met to review the suggestions made in
discussion. Two years ago, this resulted
in the establishment of the Panhellenic
ﬁtness classes. This year, students have
proposed a number of actions for Parihel
and IFC to consider, including attempts
to increase awareness of options for
women’s health and for counseling for
problems such as eating disorders.

In an evaluation form, participants
were asked for suggestions for next year’s
topic. Suggestions included stress, eating
disorders, sexual assault a second time,
alcohol abuse, and image issues.

Day of Dialogue attendance is
mandatory for all new members of a Greek
organization. In addition, sororities send
10 upperclassmen and fraternities send
five upperclassmen, including officers.
While the event is open to independents
and faculty, there is very little interest,
according to Gold. A

  

STEVEN MAFIINOS I STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Search for
new dean
continues

 

The nation-wide search for
Washington and Lee’s new Dean of the
College is winding down to a close.
The four finalists, consisting of both
men and women, scientists and
humanities scholars, will be coming to
campus in the coming weeks.

The search process began with
Provost Thomas Williams selecting
English Professor Ed Craun to chair the
Dean Search Committee. Craun and

committee which brings together 10
College faculty, one trustee, one law
professor, and one School of
Commerce professor.

The committee first devised a
job description to be advertised in the
Chronicle of Higher Education, the
leading publication for college
administrators. The school also asked
presidents from other top Liberal Arts
colleges to recommend candidates for
the job. Applications were due Dec.
13.

After analyzing the candidates’
ﬁles, which contained information on
their scholarly work and educational
projects, the comrriittee narrowed the
candidate pool to 25. The pool was
later shortened to 11, ten of which were
interviewed in Washington D.C. Jan.
21 and 22.

“The semi~ﬁnalists were grilled
for one to one and a half hours,” Craun
said.

Some questions included, “How
should liberal arts institutions be
evolving in the new century? How do
you think that successful faculty work
to serve the liberal arts mission of a
school like Washington and Lee, and
what are the key challenges they face?
What do you see as the best
opportunities for developing the
connection between students’
academic and social lives in the coming
years?”

Craun said the committee was
looking for administrative experience
and talent. They want to find a dean
that will have the administrative style
that will ﬁt at W&L.

While on campus, the candidates
will have meetings with President
Burish, Provost Williams, a selected
group of students, the other deans, and
the department in which they would be
appointed.

Each of these groups will submit
a written evaluation of each candidate.
The selection committee will pick two
of the four and Provost Williams will
have the last word on the university’s
choice.

Williams said that he is looking
for a candidate that the faculty can have
confidence in as a colleague. As a
result of the Board deciding to keep
Spring Term, an additional 20-25
faculty will be hired.

He said that it will be an
“amazing opportunity” for Dean
Peppers and the new Dean of the
College to add the new faculty to a
school with only 160 faculty members.

With the final decision resting on
his shoulders, Williams said the most
important thing he is looking for in tli
new dean is “vision.” 4

Williams will make his decision
in rr1id—March. The new dean, however,
will not start until July 1.

 

Williams worked together to form the‘

 

no.9»-sf

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

  E2085

 

M(WDAY,JAMJARY 31,215

Lexington proves hard sol

Attracting international students to W&L often not easy

ByLed1Kershaw
STAFFWHTER

Washington and Lee’s tradition of
academic excellence is not always enough
to attract international students to rural
Rockbridge County.

Over 30 percent of international
students in the United States attend
colleges and universities in huge cities like
New York and Los Angeles. Washington
and Lee University, located in a rural town
with no public transportation, has
difficulty attracting these students to such
an isolated city.

Deniz Ergin ’O6, from Istanbul,
Turkey, names transportation as one of the
biggest problems facing international
students at Washington and Lee. Ergin

.said he was originally drawn to

Washington and Lee because of its
journalism school and small—town
environment. But Ergin said he did not
know the extent of Washington and Lee’s
isolation before he came to Lexington.

Other international students also
find transportation to be a major problem.
Native Bulgarian Maria Ignatova ’06 said
it is difficult to go anywhere in Lexington
without a car. “It’s very frustrating when
you get bored of a little place like
Lexington and you just want to leave and
go somewhere,” said Ignatova.

“lt’s hard even to get back from the
airports,” said Ergin. Without the use of a
car, said Ergin, international students are
forced to use cabs. A cab ride from
Lexington to Roanoke costs around $80,
said Ergin.

Washington and Lee’s difficulty
attracting international student is further
compounded by a national trend of
decreasing international student

“It’s hard even to get back from the airports.
It’s great to be able to trust people in a city
where you don’t know anyone and can go out
without locking my door.”

— MAHABNA1DVAMﬂVEBULGAHAMG1ﬂEUPSAM3DWVNSFORM'ERNATUMLSﬂ.£JTSNLB(

 

enrollment
universities.

in U.S. colleges and
The number of new

international students enrolling as I

freshmen at Washington and Lee was cut
in half this year, to only 12 students.

Dr. William Klingelhofer, director
of international education at Washington
and Lee, said there are multiple reasons
for the decline. “The perception of the
United State has taken a hit since the war
in Iraq,” said Klingelhofer.

Increased competition among
private liberal arts colleges and
universities in the United States has also
hurt Washington and Lee’s international
student enrollment, said Klingelhofer. He
said colleges and universities in bigger
cities are able to offer a greater variety of
leisure activities and a comprehensive
public transportation system.

Consequently, colleges and
universities comparable to Washington
and Lee in size and academics have a
higher percentage of international
students. In the fall of 2004, international
students comprised 4 percent of the
Washington and Lee undergraduate body.
According to the Institute for lntemational
Education, international students comprise
19 percent of the student body at Mount
Holyoke College and over 9 percent at

If you want to pnspnre yourself for 32 posiiiéon of leeAdsr*s’h.ip»
-in -no-rrsrsint-cation, rrsedis. or the arts. ‘you’?! need a graduate
degree. At Rsag;es1H3ni:%.*ersiiy‘s Sdtoosrl of Communication Re
the Arts yoolt study 'with mtirrvent national media ptolsssionu
arils in one of the truest tachnologscaliy advanced tncilims on
the east coast.

Visit our "s{rgis1§.a: Beach Campus during Preview Wealoannlé
to ﬁnd out more about our-degree programs including:

Middlebury College.
The students agree with
Klingelhofer’s reasoning for the declining

numbers of international students-at"

Washington and Lee.

Arslan Volkan ’O5, a native of
Istanbul, Turkey, said that the town of
Lexington provides very little social
diversity. Students are limited in their
dining and entertainment options, and you
need a car even to go to the local bowling
alley, he said.

Volkan said that the social
atmosphere and lack of public
transportation in Lexington became so
frustrating that he had to escape back to
Turkey for his junior year, taking classes
at Bogazici University.

Granted, the on-campus activities
offered by student organizations this year
have created additional social
opportunities, said Volkan. But
Washington and Lee and the city of
Lexington must work together to create
more of a niche for international students,
said Volkan.

Still, the small town atmosphere of
Lexington is not without its benefits. “It’s
great to be able to trust people in a city
where you don’t know anyone and can go
out without locking my door,” said Ergin.

v Cinemnatoélsviséionlsaiimstiwon

v Communication Studies

« Phﬂ. in Communication
» Theatre Arts
«- doumaiism

Each semester, college students

are asked to ﬁll out teacher evaluations, _

only to watch thesinformation disappear
into the abyss, never to be seen again.
Word of mouth was the only option
students had to-learnt about professors

’ until recently.

At RateMyProfossors.corn,
students can now anonymously rate
professors on their helpfulness, clarity,
difﬁcuity of classes and even physical
attractiveness. Students can also leave
comments about professors and the
courses they teach. a

The Website was founded in 1999

. by John Swapceinski, who graduated

that year from San Jose State University.
“1 got the idea for the site after taking a
class with a particularly dastardly
professor who often left students in tears
and genuinely seemed to enjoy it,” he
said.

Students who visit the site can
check professors’ ratings, or rate
professors on a.-l to 5 scale, 5 being the
best, in the categories of heipfulness,
clarity and easiness. Although some

a expect the site to be just aplace to bash

professors, almost 70% of the ratings are
positive, according to Swapceinski.

At‘ the time of this writing,
RatcMyProfessors.com had a total of
618 ratings for 168 Washington and Lee

University professors. One of

::':~,°>rsuy is wxzrrrditad by Ihs=iiT‘ssrr2s1s<»w:ri run ‘Iii’:-ilat»;*,:-., at she f%a:¢stt1tru§o"es3ce2siiun«:v§ ‘5,.‘s2?'€'3E(k‘f2!?.’av-dllil l.‘.«’€hvo!s ij l‘5f§-4:- Izésuthzrn 1..-nus. iwcateri <I«‘?5.;!b’<Iﬂvrll3€."i’;
£‘«.'-arch;-sr:.r, rumévsr WI «rx‘i‘..~* 21%: 3 to award the l3§s'£l‘b<é'lIﬁ%"""3.. a'nra1>rr’s and r.ls.2st.r:-rat degrees. losorm 1.t‘nie¢:r:r»:.2r,s."~<. ,§K>llClt§ wvzrniru the admission :4! savanna ream in its
ruissuarr ssrtzmrnt, his are not amismti  prosilrdve s diwrse anglers isuxxty   of ms:-2. cs:t%or..  Ji%%':ity. or nstsmkzf--2»: ethos: main. Rniﬂttﬂ Uﬂl*£'!7‘-’$1'i3«’ is
sr<*r%il'2».*s1‘?»,-* this ﬁrms ti‘-c<m»::i~l. ca“ ms 'H:.4:.h2r lédtxsmon for ‘virgins: to ogaastxv -tatnpuscss within the z..fa:mmorM*svalth Int” ';txa,e:aan. (.‘X’.’&!~«i£!,‘i22«K!1!»

Students anonymously
A grade professors   online
l{’ateMyProfessors.com provides S 
fommlfor studentstoexpress 

. aysqizssni

Washington and Lee ilniversityfs

. highest rated professors was Professor - .
» Mohamed Kamara of the Lang‘-uagles. 

department, with an overall: rating of
4.4. Of the Ioratings for this professor,
comments included f‘I-Ie’s ‘so

wonderful, the best professor ever". 1

and “Easy, nice, a great prof, short
books and short papers”, _ .
The Website also dispiays each
school’s “hottest” professors,
indicated by a red chili pepper icon,
With 11 “hot” votes, Erofessor
Eduardo Velasquez just may be the
prof with the most secret crushes on
campus. _ .
The site is not without itsecritics.
Some students question the validity of
the ratings, especially since students
are not required to log in to rate
professors. Even the site's list of
frequently asked questions admits,
“Remember, we have no way of
knowing who is doing the rating -
students, the teacher, other teachers,
parents, dogs, cats, etc.” I
The website includes .a section

of the funniest ratings ever posted 

reads, “Bon'ng! But I learned there are
137 tiles on the ceiling.” Another: “He
will destroy you like an academic
ninja.” .
Swapceinski stated he receives
threats of legal action from irate
professors every week. “It’s amazing,"

he said, "the number of professors with 
Ph.Ds that don’.tget.the concept of the -I I

First Amendment.‘

, 

i'liL.l¥..'1II. (3.? if ($9.?-5M l.5..’K‘l‘. N.7'i\'i’ 52 "f H {'2 i'£§'k."l't'>z

V

4

  

NKNDAY,JAMJARY 31 ,ZI5

snorts

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

THIS WEEK

TUESDAY, FEB.1
-Women’s Basketball at EMU; 7:00

FRIDAY, FEB.4
'Track at VMI; TBA

SATURDAY, FEB.5

-Men’s Tennis at Furman; 9:00
IWrestling hosts; 11:00

-Men’s Basketball vs. Harnpden
Sydney; 2:00

lWomen’s Basketball at RMWC;
2:00

Track at VMI; TBA

SlNDAY, FEB.6

.Men’s Tennis at E&H; 2:00
-Men’s Basketball vs. Lynchburg;
2:00

-Women’s Basketball vs.
Lynchburg; 4:30

SPORTS BRIEFS

Wrestling Places Third at
Appnenlicelnviiational (1/29)
The Washington and Lee wrestling
team placed third out of eight teams
at the Apprentice School
Invitational on Saturday afternoon

I in Newport News, Va.

 

COURTESY SPORTS |NFOFlMATlON

Men’s Basketball Downedby
Fioanoke,64-60(1/29)

Freshman forward Josh LaPorte
(Staunton, Va./Riverheads) notched
career-highs in points (14), rebounds
(16) and steals (5) to lift Roanoke to
a 64-60 win over Washington and
Lee in ODAC men’s basketball

‘ action on Saturday evening at the

Warner Center.

Women’s Basketball Edged Out
byRoanoke,47-46 (1/29)

Senior forward Chandra Forrester
(Wytheville, Va./Rural Retreat) hit
two free throws with no time
remaining on the clock to give
Roanoke a 47-46 victory over
Washington and Lee in ODAC
women’s basketball action on
Saturday afternoon at the Warner
Center.

      
 

  

  
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
 


lllig .l 

 

  

j

1. .1

ll


     

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 ° 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshop&dassintonnatlon.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunlon
On I-8) / I-64 at exit 205. Raphine. «miles west on
Route 606. Raphine RM /M/rr/or a working
farm that oﬁers "U-PICK" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

lites - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
m 

     
 

  

Runners set records at meet

ByMa~shaIRde
wmeneeprron

Nathan Johnson has not slowed
down from Cross Country season.
Johnson took top honors among Division
HI runners in the 3000 meter race at the
Christopher Newport Invitational on
Saturday.

The meet included teams from
Division I, H, and IH. Johnson ﬁnished
fourth overall with a school record time
of 8:37.24. He can add this
accomplishment to his growing resume.
In the fall Johnson won the Cross Country
Regionals earning himself a bid to
Nationals. .

That was not the only record that
Johnson broke. In the distance medley
relay he teamed up with junior Andrew
Johnson, senior Lee Stinnett, and
freshman Jack Jeong to take fourth place

 

“I was really excited and pleased
with my performance. I didn’t do
as well as I had hoped in my ﬁrst
meet this year, so it was great to
do better this time.”

-ELlZABE|'HBRAM.X.ER

and break the school record with a time of
10:50.76.

“I ran really well” Johnson said.
“Saturday was my main race. Iknew what
the record time was to beat and it was
always in the back of my head.” At
outdoors last year Johnson missed the
record by five seconds.

Johnson continued, “It was a really

great meet with a lot of talent.”

Nathan Johnson was not the only
athlete to break a school record at the track
meet.

Freshman Elizabeth Brandler also
set two records. Brandler took second
among Division III athletes in the pole
vault with a height of 10 feet six inches.
The jump was enough for fourth place

overall and a school record.

“I was really excited and pleased
with my performance” Brandler said. “I
didn’t do as well as I had hoped in my
first meet this year, so it was great to do
better this time.”

Brandler took home another record
in the triple jump with a length of 34 feet
‘/2 inch and a first place finish among
Division HI athletes.

But, Brandler has bigger goals in
mind. “I really want to get that 11 foot
mar ” Brandler said. “I really want to
qualify for ODAC’s. I also want to go to
Nationals. That would be really cool.”

Meredith Walker also took home a
school record in the 60 meters with a time
of 8.69 seconds. Meanwhile Senior Brian
Krupczak took home third among Division
HI athletes in the 55 meters.

The Generals hope to break a few
more records at their next meet on
February 4'“ at the VMI Winter Relays.

Pa. football fans
have great year

Krall oﬁers her hometown perspective

ByKahynKrd
STAFFWFITER

It may sound cliched, but in
Pennsylvania, football is a way of life.
With the Pittsburgh Steelers and the
Philadelphia Eagles competing in the AFC
and NFC championship, there has never
been a better time to be a Pennsylvania
football fan.

The love of the game starts at a high
school level. Standouts are the heroes of
small towns across the state. The
atmosphere at the Friday night game is the
stuff of movies, with the steam from hot
chocolate ﬁlling the air and scarves taken
off to be used as banners. In Pennsylvania,
even the high schools have football bands,
not to mention the colleges. Football
permeates everyday existence. Not only
do people wear NcNabb jerseys, but they
also try out the latest Terrell Owens
touchdown celebration dance at the school
prom.

In college, the football obsession
only grows. Joe Patemo would be elected
governor unanimously if he chose to run,
and claiming to bleed blue and white is
common. In Pennsylvania, girls actually
watch football for reasons other than tight
pants.

If you aren’t from either of the
major cities of PA (perhaps I should say

the only cities), who you cheer for is
hereditary. I am an Eagles fan because
my dad is one, who is one because his
father always has been one. When the
patriarch of the family dies, his oldest son
inherits his football paraphernalia.

At the pro level, the fans are even
more devoted, and with good reason.
Combined, the two teams have only been
defeated ﬁve times, and Philly’s first loss
was at the hands of Pittsburgh. With
record-setting feats, hard work, and
unparalleled theatrics, the players
themselves characterize what it is to be a
Pennsylvania football player. Donovan
McNabb has been setting records for an
African—American quarterback, while Ben
Roethlisberger is probably the most
successful rookie QB ever. Duce Staley
and Brian Westbrook personify strength
and determination, and Terrell Owens is
in a league of his own.

After three excruciating losses in
the NFC championship game in a row, the
Eagles have finally earned a Super Bowl
berth. The Steelers fell to the Patriots in
the AFC championship game, but the
Eagles are out to avenge the defeat of their
brother team. My prediction for the
superbowl? The Patriots may have the
advantage on paper, but the Eagles have
heart, and a strong tradition of PA football
behind them.

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group’ s time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, OOO—
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call TODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CaIr[pusFundraiser.
Contact CampusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

Sporsﬂeleme

S”(J=l'|'SI\FC}?v1ATU\l

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams swept
Marymount on Saturday afternoon in
Arlington, Va. The men upped their
record to 6-2 with a 133-68 victory,
while the women improved to 8-6 with
a 124-79 win.

' In the men’s meet, the foursome
. of sophomore Kevin Hayes (Mercer
Island, Wash./Mercer Island), freshman
Stuart Frankfort (Lynchburg, Va./E.C.
Glass), senior Chris Colby (Ossining,
N.Y./Archbishop Stepinac) and
sophomore Maxwell Pike (Goldsboro,
N .C./Wayne Country Day) won the 400-
yard medley relay in a time of 3:41.89.

Colby also won the 200-yard
butterﬂy in 2:00.64, while Frankfort
captured the 200-yard IM in 2:08.99.
Junior Clark Barrineau (Charlotte, N.C./
South Mecklenburg) was victorious in

two individual events. He touched the

KELLY BOSS / FILE PHOTO

hﬂ1isweeler1d’sn1akﬂ1upMu1MaymounLﬂ1ema1’sa1dworna1’sswmnhg

Swimming teams sweep
Marymount on Saturday

Team records improve to 6-2, 8-6

wall first in both the 500-yard (5205.00)
and 1000-yard (10:28.33) freestyles.

In the women’s meet, the quartet
of freshman Jess Cobb (Moorestown,
N .J ./Moorestown), sophomore Abbie
Sauter (Darien, Conn./Darien), freshman
Amy Roberson (Nacogdoches, Texasl
N acogdoches), and senior Suzie LaFleur
(Natick, Mass./Montrose) captured the
400—yard medley relay in a time of
4:16.31.

Sauter and junior Kristine Holda
(strongsville, Ohio/Strongsville) each
won two individual events. Sauter was
victorious in both the 200-yard IM
(2:18.84) and 200-yard breaststroke
(2132.94), while Holda won both the
100-yard (55.94) and 200-yard (2:02.40)
freestyle events.

The W&L men’s swimming team
returns to the pool at the Bluegrass
Mountain Conference Championships
from Thu., Feb. 17 to Sat., Feb. 19. The
W&L women’s swimming team returns
to action at the ODAC Championships
from Fri., Feb. 18 to Sun., Feb. 20.

#1 snring Break Vacations

canoun. Iamaloa, lleanuloo. Bahamas 8. F|0l‘|I|a|
Best Parties. Best Ilotels Best Prices!
Iiroun nlsoounts. nruanlzors Travel Free!
Snaoe Is Ilmllolll 00011 How 8. Save!
1-000-234-1001 vrwvrenulesssummenoursoom

$$$Easy Money $$$

I will pay $40 for your phone book
Call Lee Ramsey toll free
1-866-577-7237

  Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-camp.us reps. Call for
group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or wvvw.ststrave|.com.

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier411.com
1 877 SEE POOL

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&|ife

 

llﬂ‘DAY,JAMJAFlY31,ZX5

Mrs. Kemb1e’s

Tempest Shines

at Lenfest
Ziegler’s renowned
play performed

ByNaciaWolfe

STAFF\M7!TB:i

“Shakespeare’s plays,” Fanny
Kemble declares towards the end of the
play, “all of them, are about only one
thing: being human.” The same can
be said for Mrs. Kemble’s Tempest, a
masterful play by W&L Theatre
professor Tom Ziegler. It is no small
wonder the play came out of a month-
long run at the Fringe, a famous—and
tough to please—annual play festival
with a five star rating, the highest
possible.

Fanny Kemble, daughter to the
famous actor Charles Kemble, was one
of the most celebrated actresses of the
nineteenth century. Despite this, she
considered herself primarily a writer,
keeping journals, writing poetry, and
authoring plays. Ever struggling for
freedom, first from her family’s history
as great actors, then from her father’s
lack of financial success, from a
marriage in which she was expected to
be subservient, and ﬁnally ﬁnancing
herself as a divorcee. Her
inconquerable nature led Henry James
to say of her, “A prouder nature never
affronted the long humiliation of life.
She had, from the first, abundantly
lived.”

This proud nature and
courageous spirit comes across
brilliantly in Zeigler’s play. The play’s
premise is a hypothetical 1869 farewell
reading of Shakespeare’s The Tempest
by Mrs. Kemble. However, the
audience is treated to more than just
Shakespeare. “Is it not possible, given
the ﬁnality of this engagement, I might
digress?” she asks, and proceeds to do
just that between parts of Tempest and
several other Shakespearean plays, as
well as scenes from her own life,
always playing every part.

Whoever said, “Those who can’t
do, teach,” obviously hasn’t seen Jane
Ridley on the stage. A professor in the
Professional Actor Training Program at
Pennsylvania State University, Ms.
Ridley takes a demanding role and
soars with it. She is utterly believable
as Kemble——as well as the many roles
Kemble performs. She is perfectly
charming as the witty, independent,
tragic yet triumphant Fanny Kemble.
She skillfully portrays not only
Kemble’s enduring strength of
character, but also her vulnerability and
hurts without making her unrealistic or
saccharine. Ridley was well—supported
by Josh Harvey (class of 2000) as her
frazzled accompianist and Tom
Anderson (W&L Theatre Technical
Director and professor) as the annoyed
stage hand at her beck and call. The
music, selected by Harvey, was both
historically and theatrically appropriate
for the scenes she was acting at the
time.

This production boasts new set
and costume designs since its original
production. Jere Lee Hodgin, also the
director, created a beautiful Victorian
setting with an appropriate color palette
of mainly burgundy with gold, and
Mary A. Folino’s golden hoop dress
meshed well both with the set and the
new wig Lighter than last year’s, it is
colored to show the aging of the then
sixty year old actress in a beautiful
snood updo. These changes are well
made, and contribute subtly to Ziegler’s
play.

Mrs. Kemble’s Tempest is a
literary and theatrical feast for any
audience. Hilariously funny,
wonderfully uplifting, this story of the
triumph of one human soul is
magnificent and touching, and
emminently entertaining. As she
realizes at the end, her own quest for
independence has ﬁnally been fulﬁlled
through the stage she initially rejected:
“Mister Shakespeare, he was my refuge
wasn’t he? He was my liberator.”
Bravo, Mrs. Kemble.

Duell’ingi”be,,  to at e an

“Dreaming and

I ; BvK2hvnKml

$"&ZFlSl'AH"VlHTE3

_ The filming for the original
screenplay, “Dreaming and Duelling,”
. that is being made here at Washington
'*.a.'ndLeeisinitsﬁnaiweek. Workon
the project began during the summer,
 bptpthe lasttwo,wee_ks havepbeen the
“ ? most intense’ ‘as the actors and
production crew have been working
-around the clock to complete the
V ‘ Paige Smith, a junior theater
r major, has been an extra in a ﬁlm, but
her role in “Dreaming and Dueiling”
. ' is her first speaking role. She plays
V Mrs. Thorpe, the fencing coach of the
character Eric Culien, who is played
j, by Michael Wagoner. Wagoner is a
I sophomoretheatermajorwhobecaxne
I excited about the film because he
_- knew it was a big chance for the
. . department. “‘I decided that I would
I “like to be a part of such a different
V ' sort of venture" said Wagoner. This

is his ﬁrstmajor role as well.
I j ‘ - Balancing a full academic

course load  the rigors‘ of  i
such an extensive project has proved
challenging to the actors involved.

. “Luckily all the t":1miag,isfat night.;;so 7
there is not conflict with classes I
all, but homework is a different story. ’
Most of us have been  some
work toeach of the sheets for down

»  So far I haven’t fatten  it": _
any of my classes, andiI'Adon’t’see?th'a‘t I
I w‘ ” said Wagoner.

Most“ of the "difficulties of. 7 ‘ "

ﬁlminglstem from the  aspect
of production. .‘‘Setting‘ up the lighting, ,
and shots takes the most time’?.said..
Smith. There have been few maior
complications on the acting side of the
filming.
obstacles are frustrating because they;
are unexpected. ‘ » I '  .'
Frequently the actors have to use «
all their resourcefulness. and creativity
to solve what appearto "be siinpie
problems. but often prove to be quite
complicated. T ‘:0 ’

VI-I'owever..l‘_even minor,‘ —.  =

whitzeiiefezicing-ioutfit, but tiienlvitt We
havetogo  _ .
The problem then was that I  biood
allover me.whe_i[t I wasn 

’ Luckily fwejreiIiov'ed  as A A
‘conid and then used some white tape ; j
‘ to the rest of the coioring._’f ' if ‘V’

lpﬁlthoughloften  ,
aneiftusttaﬁns; ﬁlmin is
usually enjoyaiiiie ana.a.s1ss"i:,

‘S vest those.’

learning the “fight choreograp I
haveo’t hadmuch experience-

,‘ Astageiﬁpghtingpand iearningr M
vmoyes», while exhausting, was

entertaining” said Wagoner. \
7 Even after, experieneinj thf

.stress1o£'rna§;mg..a movie, "Smith 
7decipdedthattl1e.gAoodfaroutweighsi ‘
bad. .‘‘i interested. in going int 7

"ﬁlnjiindustryfa”fter ‘on,-’ " “

tsp.-as moves: .LA;-and  ‘a

Wagoner explaini_edione,s" it  

situation: “One difficulty was  i ,

ﬁnal scene there’s stage biood used.

And it would get all qmme, my i i.

; favorite experience thus far‘ I  -  I
 ography. I ’havert’t had much experience age

a  

_ Allearrting all the moves, while exhattsting,  entertairtirti"

Orchestra gives first concert

Bystatewlson
ST AFFWFUTER

Saturday night, both local residents
and Washington and Lee students braved
wintry conditions to make their way to the
Lenfest Center for an evening of music.
Despite a barrage of freezing rain and iced-
over roads, a sizeable crowd emerged to
hear the University-Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra give its first
performance of the new semester.

Entitled “A Visitor from Portugal”,
the night was an occasion to highlight the
collaborative efforts of guest conductor
José Ferreira Lobo. Besides a traditional
symphony by Brahms, the concert was to
feature several works characteristic of the
Iberian Peninsula, including its composers
and musical style.

Lobo entered the stage to a ﬂurry
of applause and the show began.
Symphony No. l in C by Brahms, a piece
of four movements, highlighted Lobo.’s
artistic direction and the high quality of
the performers.

With little doubt, the notes were
clear and full of resonance, and the
selection allowed for a full range of

emotion and technical expertise to be"

expressed. The only problem seemed to
be during the second movement when the
conductor could be heard directing an
audible “shh” to the Violin H section.

However, this stylistic qualm is
most likely attributable to the generally too
short and too few practices that come with
a guest conductor. The orchestra more than
compensated in the fourth movement with
an ending that was both soaring and
climatic.

As the first symphony ended, looks
of bewilderment crossed the faces of the
audience as the house lights remained
dark. The puzzlement increased as Lobo,
after leading the orchestra in a series of
bows, launched into the second act.

With titles such as “La Boda de Luiz
Alonso”, or “The Wedding of Luiz
Alonso”, the USSO ﬁlled the audience’s
imagination with images of festive parties
and wild dancing in the old countries of
Spain and Portugal. The mood was set
with the marked inclusion of castanets,
and a brass section whose energy ﬁlled
each piece.

Unfortunately, the party did not last.
After about three pieces, the house lights

did go up and the hour came for everyone
to go home. Apparently, time constraints
had indeed cut short the numbers of pieces
the symphony could play. Nonetheless, the
professionalism and talent of all those
involved was notable. The brief glimpse
into Iberia was a delight well worth the
battle against ice and cold.

Maestro Lobo, whose Orquestra do
Norte plays more than 140 concerts and a
year in Portugal, took a moment to speak
after the performance. Noting his delight
at being invited to play by Dr. Barry
Kolman, full time head of the USSO, he
described the students he worked with as,
“very lovely people” who “enjoy music.”
He also expressed how impressed he was
the group, which includes many people for
whom music is not a principle profession.
While affirming his desire for more
practice time, he also stressed his
experience as “a pleasure” that he deeply
enjoyed. The USSO Hill will complete its
concert series on Saturday, March 12 with
a selection called “American & Russian
Masterpieces” with guest ﬂutist Katherine
De] ongh. Tickets are free for W&L
students and may be reserved at the
Lenfest Center box office extension 5000.

Film Society
offers diverse

selection

Why go to the
country when you
can stay in the city?

BVEIYSEMOOUV

STAFFVWWTBR

With pledges around to drive
eager partygoers out to the country or
just about anywhere else, W & L
students have a pretty busy social
calendar this winter. However, I
suggest that you check out the movies
playing in the Commons every once in
a while. They show some really quality
ﬁlms, along with some lower- grade but
hilarious ones, and there are convenient
showings at 7:00 PM or 9:30 PM
during the week.

The Commons will be showing
Team America: World Police at 7:00
PM on Monday, January 31, 9:30 PM
on Tuesday, 9:30 PM on Thursday, and
9:30 on Friday. Remember that show
Thunderbirds, the military one with the
creepy wooden puppets? Well, Chris
Parker and Matt Stone (better known
as the creators of South Park) have
implemented these stunning special
effects in their ﬁlm satirizing the war
against terrorism.

As their byline wittily asserts,
they’re “putting the F back in
‘Freedom’.” I haven’t seen this one
yet, but I have only heard good things
about it. My brother mentioned
something about an interesting love
scene...with puppets. Weird but
hilarious is the consensus, and if you
like South Park, I’m sure you’ll love
it. The theme song expresses this best:
“Team America: f@ !* yeah!”

At 7:30 on Friday, February 4
and Saturday, February 5, the Film
Society presents The Dreamers, a ﬁlm
by Bernardo Bertolucci. Matthew, an
American studying in Paris, is drawn
to Isabella and Theo, a French brother
and sister duo, by their common love
of cinema. Set against the backdrop
of the student riots in the l960’s, this
film captures the unique characteristics
of a friendship formed in the midst of
intense conflict. It provides a
wonderful, intellectual contrast to
Team America.

Just before Washington Break,
Shark Tale will be playing on Monday,
February 8 at 7:00 PM and on Thursday
and Friday at 9:30 PM. Incorporating
the talents of huge celebrities like Will
Smith, Renee Zellweger, Robert De
Niro, Angelina Jolie, Jack Black,
Martin Scorsese, and Ziggy Marley,
Shark Tale is a comedy written in the
same vein as Shrek—it has a little bit
of comedy for everyone. When Oscar,
a young ﬁsh, is found at the scene of a
shark mob boss’s son’s murder, he
takes advantage of the opportunity to
toughen up his bottom-feeder
reputation without considering the
consequences of his.actions. This
movie sounds like the murder mystery
version of Finding Nemo, although I’m
not sure it can possibly live up to this
precedent.

Finally, upon our return from the
break, the biographical film Ray,
chronicling the life of the legendary
Ray Charles, will be shown. J amie Fox
gives a simply astounding performance
in the title role, proving his talents
beyond the realm of comedy and
exhibiting the results of many months
of intensive research and study. He is
incredible as Charles—virtual1y a
mirror image of the recently-deceased
songwriter. Kerry Washington makes
her debut on the big screen as Della
Bea Robinson. 1 am really looking
forward to this one. I have the
soundtrack, and it is really a lot of fun
to listen to. Although “Georgia on my
Mind” is a standard for all of us
Southerners, the album is full of
Charles’ best-known tracks and a
couple of live recordings-——it’s worth
buying even if you aren’t interested in
the movie.

 

“ MONDAY,JAMJARY31,2m5 11-|E R]NG.‘|TUM pm . 5

‘ HIDDEN VALLEY FARM

Aptly named for its magnificent set-
ting at the base of the Blue Ridge Moun-
tains, HIDDEN VALLEY FARM offers, on
438 acres, an exceptional combination of a
privately situated farmstead, productive
upland acreage, unobstructed mountains
views, practical improvements to accom-
modate horses and cattle, healthy wood-
lands, providing habitat for plentiful wild-
life, and abundant water resources pro-
vided by numerous springs, wells, and
one-half mile of the Saint Mary's River.

The solid brick home exhibits early
Shenandoah craftsmanship with heartpine
ﬂoors, six fireplaces, carved mantels, and
simple, solid woodwork throughout the
six primary rooms.

The cottage and early log smokehouse
complement the hospitality of the home.
Horse facilities include seven stalls in a
stable complete with an office, washrack,
and feed and tack room. Nearby are six
day stalls and two stallion stalls with indi-
vidualpens. There is a large crushed stone
exercise area suitable for a ring or rings.

Additional structures include numer-
ous run-in sheds, a pole building for hay
storage, a machine shed and a traditional
bank barn.

A ﬂexible conservation easement con-
veys with the farm.

Hidden Valley Farm: $2,450,000

CABIN ON THE MAURY

 

.I’

‘ §:3§§I£§§rZT§fa§§Z’b§i1§lli?§e féfiﬂﬂllf’    19"“ Land C°mPa“Y
' ’ ‘ P ' Old School Realtors

Walk swim or canoe to town.
_ g office: (540) 348-2000
  °a'°'" °" “'9 ""a"'Y= 5°‘-D residence: (540) 348-5656
wvwv.|andandestates.com

  

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MCIDAYJAMJARY 31,215

0Il|Il|0|lS

 

Quick hits to end

In light of recent concerns,
the Editors of The Ring—tum Phi
have decided to remove the
“Quick'Hits” section from our V
newspaper. An anonymous
forum such as Quick Hits creates
irresponsibility and allows for
personal attacks.

Though it was the most
popular feature of the newspaper,
an anonymous open forum such
as Quick Hits is irresponsible
journalism. Students abused
anonymity, used derogatory
language and offended multiple
members of the student body in
the year and a half that the feature
existed.

We are taking a week off
and revising the section. “Quick
Hits” is dead. The concept of an
anonymous forum is very much
alive.

This idea was ours alone.
Our policy had been to print all
the quick hits we received unless
one was clearly aimed at a certain
individual student or was
extremely lewd. We can longer
abide by this policy because, as
editors, we carmot always foresee
what will offend certain members
of the student body. We can no
longer, in good conscience, allow
an anonymous forum that
contains potential offensive
remarks to run in our paper.

Quick Hits is a section with
huge liability, and we are
designing a way to retain the
anonymous forum without
printing offensive, mean-spirited ‘
and slanderous material.

Quick Hits has hurt and
offended our fellow students. We
carmot in good conscience defend
juvenile attacks. We will defend
anonymous, legitimate criticisms’
of campus life and the
Administration and we will now
ensure that this is how Quick Hits
functions— as a legitimate forum,
not as a juvenile rant.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions editor Caley Anderson gives
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0“Grammer”

GrammAr! With an a! You’re
EDUCATED PEOPLE! Don’t get me
started on they’re/their, or your/you’re.

Ovirginia Militaly Inslitute
Damn it, I write an editorial about
how cadets deserve more respect and
then they do THIS.

ONashington&LeeUniVersity

But then again, we beat them to it.

Ocainescym

I know we have a nice ﬁtness center in
the gym, but when things start rusting,
don’t they deserve an itty bit of
maintenance?

0 AP Test

I had to get a FIVE on the
Government test to place out of
Politics 100? My FOUR was
insufficient? That’s like calling a “B”
grade failing.

0 Health
When Professor DeLaney cancels

_class....there’s a bug going around.

()Michael Jackson

Criticizes media for reporting leaked
information from his Grand Jury
hearing. This from the man who
stands on a car and plays to the crowd
after being charged with child
molestation.

Ooptimism
Everything’s down this week.
 

Student body in

need of a reality check

ByAmeFIiey

T}‘EBGPCTU¥

This is my second year both at

‘Washington and Lee and writing for the _

Phi. Looking back on how the subject
matter of my opinion pieces have evolved,
I realize I’m starting to become more like
the typical college student, following the
same trends people have before me. I
started out, like anyone would who has
suddenly been thrown into a new and
strange environment, commenting and
critiquing the student body and culture. I
gave advice as only a freshman could,
wrote about the unnecessary division of
students as being from the “North” versus
“South,” touted college as the ideal
opportunity for self-discovery, and urged
students to break out of the mold of the
“typical”; W&L student.

This year, I’ve tended away from
preachy pieces aimed at the student body,
and instead focused on suggested reform
by the mother of all collegiate scapegoats,
the administration. My last two articles,
for example, called for a better scheduling
of breaks and a reversal of the sudden and
steady increases in tuition and other related
costs. But just when I’ve finally come in
line with the majority of school newspaper
writers in occasionaﬂy ﬁnding reason to
criticize our school’s management, I find
myself needing to stray over the issue of
how the administration is handling the
alcohol crisis.

Call me na'1've, but whether or not
recent actions and policies are completely
effective, I truly believe our school’s
leadership is trying to act in the best
interest of our student body. Sadly, liability
in our day and age must inevitably be a
serious consideration, but this is hardly the
main reason why steps are being taken to
curb incidents of dangerous behaviors and
sexual assault. Is it really so hard to
believe that our President and deans care
about our health? That they could, being
a little older and wiser than us, actually
have some decent ideas and perspective
about how to make the long-terrn situation
of our school even better?

I absolutely love that our school is

unique, that it has history, and that there
is no place like it on Earth. But we must
admit that it is also seriously in need of a
reality check. To cite, once again, the
startling results of student surveys last

year, studentshere (especially females) are .

about twice as likely to be sexually
assaulted than at other national
institutions, and twice as likely to have an
eating disorder. No one can tell me that
this is a good thing, or that it adds to the
special character of our school. It is not
normal, and it is not right. To say, as I all
too frequently hear, that this “happens at
all colleges” or “is just a fact ‘of life in
college” is a cop out. '

Binge drinking, though it happens
across the country, is also not the norm of
behavior for people our age. Yet, whether
or not its prevalence is exaggerated on our
campus, the practice seems generally
accepted by the student body. It is treated
like a joke, in fact. I always get a bad
feeling in my gut every time I overhear
someone nonchalantly laughing about
how they can’t remember what they did
the night before. I understand that mistakes
happen, that people lose count and drink
more than they intend. But when drinking
to get drunk and blacking out during the
weekend becomes routine, something has
to be done. This is not me being morally
superior; morals in my opinion have
nothing to do with it. I worry for people’s
safety, just as the administration worries,
because I don’t want one of my friends or
fellow students to die needlessly or do
something they will regret for the rest of
their lives. So, for just a minute, honestly
try to put yourself in the administration’s
place. They’ve been around the block a
few more times than we have and I respect
their position. There is absolutely a place,
and a need, for concerned students to
speak their minds about problems they see
with any policy. But when we start laying
all the blame elsewhere and saying this
school’s leadership is acting in their own
self—interest rather than ours, nothing gets
resolved. We have to take some
responsibility for having necessitated
these changes and then get our own
behavior under control. That is the
ultimate experiment in self government.

m—~—=]~— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY S-1
TH E RINO -’I‘UM PHI.
EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR MARSHALL RULE
NEWS EDITOR SARAH MURRAY
ASST. NEWS EDITOR KATHERINE SHELL
OPINIONS EDITOR CALEYANDERSON
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR ANNE FINLEY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR EMILY EDwARDS
PHOTO EDITOR CORBIN BLACKFORD
LAYOUT EDITORS CHAD KIEwIEr DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN
BUSINESS MANAGER DAVID SEIFERT
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR ROB RAIN
ASST. CIRCULATION DIRECTORS LEGGET K|'l'CHlN

ELIzABE11-I ROBINSON
YINYAN Ll

ROHAN POOJARA

COPY EDITORS AMANDATHOLKE

VANESSA ARNESS

DAVID KRONENFELD
SI-IAI£wLsON

771sRi1g4z1nPIT'SpIbishedMmda3SdumgtTeIrdeIgIadua1Esdndyear
atWaSl'IirigtmandLeeUriversiIy,Le><'ngl0I’I,\/IIg'nia.
ﬂeHhgtmHTlsanernberdﬂ1eRbia3ﬁaIsBoam,bIniSdtIeTwbeimepaTda1t


Alstbrrmionsmustbee-maiedtophi@vv1U.eduorintheUniversitycentermaboxbyspm.
Fridaytoappearinthefollowingweel€sedtior1.
7hel%g-amﬂiresewestterigtttoedtstbrﬁssiasforomternartdbngm.
LetteIsandoolurnrIsdorIotneoessaIi|yreﬂe<1Iheop'nion<>t TheFIhg-tIImPhiEdtoria|BoaIId.
AdveI1isingdOeSndrefectﬂTeopinior1sof7heHhg-hmPﬁoritsstaff.
ThisrIewSpaperobser\/esmnemootmdeﬁniﬁasotﬂaelardobsoetity.

TheF&1g-tunPhI'
341
WasrhgIaor1arIdLeeUrIi~/ecsity

Lex'ngton,VIr9"ia24450
Telephone: (540)4584060
Fax (540)4584059
Emai:phI'@wlu.edu
Stbsofpﬁon rate$40

A baby’s life
begins at birth,
not at conception

Plenty of evidence in both religion
and philosophy for pro—choicers

ByBeckyLeMohe

Tl-ELEMLVEW

When pro-life activists try to use
the Declaration of Independence and
science as means to justify government
involvement in the abortion issue, they
are blatantly avoiding some basic
realities. First of all, ontological
questions, such as “What is life and
when does it start?” are neither clear
nor simple issues. No human being
knows with absolute certainty the
answer to such a question, and thus
many people develop different views.

For example, pro-life Christians
often claim that life begins at the
moment of conception, rather than the
moment of birth. However, in the
Bible, Genesis 2:7 says, “And the Lord
God formed man of the dust of the
ground, and breathed into his nostrils
the breath of life; and man became a
living soul.” If we were to literally
interpret this passage, it indicates that
life begins with the first breath; this
first breath is experienced upon exiting
the mother’s womb.

People of various backgrounds
constantly disagree on the exact
moment that life commences, and none
can actually prove their point of view.
For all we know, all of our philosophies
could be completely wrong.

With this in mind, along with the
concession that determining the start
of life is a complicated and
controversial issue, we can then fully
examine the Declaration. The pro-life
argument here is based on the fact that
pregnancy involves “two distinct
bodies” and therefore we do not have
the right to deprive the unborn of life.
However, this statement is not only
very misleading, but also inaccurate.
Throughout the entire process, is the
fetus ever self-sustaining? The answer
is no.

The fetus is completely
physically dependant upon its mother
throughout pregnancy. Therefore, the
fetus is neither a distinct body, nor a
separate entity. It only has the potential
for an individual life.

Furthermore, the Constitution
itself defines what the United States
considers as a life and hence a citizen
possessing rights. The Fourteenth
Amendment states, “All persons born
or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the
State —wherein they reside.” This clause
clearly does not include pre-born
humans.

In contrast, the mother is an
actual, developed, thinking, and feeling
human being. Thus, the pro-life
argument is essentially that we should
deny the rights of an actual human
being, for the sake of providing rights
to a potential human being. This is an
extreme breach of a woman’s privacy.

In the words of philosopher
Leonard Peikoff, “Responsible
parenthood involves decades devoted
to the child’s proper nurture. To
sentence a woman to bear a child
against her will is an unspeakable
violation of her rights: her right to

liberty (to the functions of her body),
her right to the pursuit of happiness,
and, sometimes, her right to life itself
[...] Such a sentence represents the
sacriﬁce of the actual to the potential,
of a real human being to a piece of
protoplasm, which has no life in the
human sense of the term. It is sheer
perversion of language for people who
demand this sacriﬁce to caH themselves
‘right-to-lifers. ’ ”

Pro—life activists also tend to
maintain that abortion induces
emotional trauma on a woman. Yet,
what could be more emotionally
traumatizing than looking into your son
or daughter’s eyes each and every day
and remembering the trauma of the
rape that caused the child to be
conceived? In addition, how would it
feel to be the child of parents who
neglect their parental duties, or who
express the fact that they never planned
on having you?

It seems foolish to inflict
unnecessary pain and suffering on
adults as well as children, especially
when there are so many neglected
children in this world already.
Consequently, the possibility of Post
Abortion Syndrome is not nearly as
severe as the guaranteed consequences
of forced childbirth. As far as adoption,
it is a very involved matter; the number
of uncared for children by far
outweighs the number of couples able
to adopt.

It is true that some women
engage in promiscuous activity and
then want to have an abortion. Yet,
what about women who are forced to
engage in sexual activity? Should a
woman who had hopes, dreams, and
plans for the future be punished for the
rest of her life because a man physically
took advantage of her? It would be
unjust to deny any woman her right to
choose because they each have their
own reasons and it is not our right to
judge whether or not their reasons are
valid according to our personal beliefs
system. What may be right for one
woman may not be right for another.
Yet, every woman should at least have
the option to decide what is right for
her. '

We will all agree that the First
Amendment to the Constitution secures
the right to freely practice religion.
Based on this, is it not fair for one
religious group who believe that life
starts at the moment of conception to
impose this view on another religious
group who believe that life begins at
birth or who believe in reincarnation.
In effect, it is unjust for the government
to literally forbid and outlaw a personal
choice, one that is a matter of
individual opinion and belief. I believe
that this highly infringes on religious
freedom and individual liberty.

To conclude, I leave you with an
anonymous quote to consider, “Of
course abortion isn’t right. But it is
even less right to bring unwanted
children into lifelong suffering and to
strip women of their choice. Making
abortion illegal is not the way to
prevent it. There is a much larger
picture that starts with much deeper
roots.”

“Thus, the pro-life argument is essentially
that we should deny the rights of an actual
human being for the sake of providing rights
to a potential human being.”

 

MG‘lDAY,JANJAHY 31 ,ZI5

“It didn’t completely ruin my summer,

but it did give me a lot of undue stress

both at home and at wor .”
-QUO'FEOFTHEWEEKPeerLa:sat17,moIssungrissmoorrorasImgnrn

bdohomeworkoversunnrervacalion

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

Rape still
a serious
problem

Bycaissaslialey

NT}-EIFKIS

No means no, but sometimes it’s
not enough. When I first started writing
this column, I hoped to make people
think, even if they came to the same
conclusions that they had before they
read the article. But no issue that I’ve
brought up before or that I will ever
bring up has been as important to me
as this one.

Last week, my sorority met with
President Burish, Dean Watkins, and
several representatives of the sorority’s
national organization to talk about
sexual abuse on campus. The meeting
was a question and answer format and
I was surprised at a lot of questions that
were asked. It has been repeated over
and over that there is no excuse for
sexual abuse of any nature, no matter
the circumstances. Whether or not
alcohol is involved, previous voluntary
sexual contact, and even marriage
between the victim and the assailant
give no justiﬁcation for rape or abuse.
No matter how many times we are told
that any kind of unwanted sexual
contact can be considered abuse and
that there is no way it can be warranted,
it still happens. The recent reports of
abuse here on campus clearly show that
Lee’s rule of every man acting like a
gentleman is not followed. Does honor
stop at the threshold of a bedroom? It
shouldn’t, but apparently it sometimes
does. I’m a member of both BRAVE
and KEWL, organizations which work
for the prevention of sexual abuse and
for the protection and rights of womerr
who have been abused. These are not
the only organizations with this mission
and I know many people who are
involved in working for this cause,
including many men. However, no
matter how hard we work, we can’t put
a total stop to abuse here on campus,
locally, nationally, and especially
world-wide. Ideologically, we want to
stop it, but realistically, there will
always be abuse of some form or
another.

The fact that there is always a
possibility of abuse should be in the
forefront of women’s minds. This
brings me back to the questions that
were asked during the information
session. Many women, in their
argument that the new alcohol policy
has created a situation where parties are
being held off-campus and out in the
country, pointed out the fact that they
feel more at danger now than before.
It may be true that the probability of
something bad happening ‘is greater
off-campus, but the important point is
that the probability is always there, no
matter how large or small. This means
that it is up to women to protect
themselves and not increase their risk
by entering into a dangerous situation.
If you feel like that party out in the
country is going to be the best party of
the year, but you know that you don’t
get cell phone reception or that there
might not be very many people there,
don’t go. If you can’t ﬁnd a buddy to
go with you who will stick by you
during the night, don’t go. You might
be missing out on a really great party,
but isn’t it worth it? Maybe it seems
like there’s a relatively small chance
of oneself individually being raped, but
do you want to risk an event that can
change your life forever just for a night
of drinking and hanging out with
friends? As I stated before, I seriously
doubt that there will be a place where
you have absolutely no chance of being
abused and I’m not encouraging you
to lock yourselves in your room every
night, but taking precautions goes a
long way towards preventing abuse.

You are all smart women and
know to stick with your friends and
sisters, to leave a party before it ends
so you aren’t the last one there, and to
call or find a security ofﬁcer if you ever
feel unsafe (you won’t be reported if
you are underage and have been
drinking). But when you think that a
party could be unsafe, even after you
have taken preventative measures, just
don’t go. It isn’t worth it.

Conservative concepts could save Social Security

Investment plan is the only viable solution for crisis of the pensioneers

BYWWHEVDIIWEV

$\E?ALLYS’EAKl\G

The beginning of a new year is
traditionally a time for resolutions,
promises of improvement, and decisions
to change old ways.

This same self-improvement
mentality is apparent in American politics,
with the latest hot potato issue, Social
Security reform.

There are several political factions
arguing for different solutions, including
private investment accounts, beneﬁt cuts,
tax increases, or some combination of the
three. Many others believe that the
government should just leave the issue
alone.

Social Security reform is
generally associated with conservatives
and has recently been identiﬁed as a top
priority of President George W. Bush‘s
second term. With collapse of the system

' predicted in thirteen years, there is little

time for partisan squabbling. Social

Security reform should not be a
Democratic or Republican issue-it is a
problem that transcends party lines and
affects all working Americans, and should
be treated as such.

Although technically the system
may be able to pay promised beneﬁts for
years to come (at least until 2018), taking
the approach of hiding our heads in the
sand is a mistake.

Many economists agree that

2018 is an overly pessimistic estimate for
the demise of Social Security and that the
program’s life span is in fact much longer.
This assertion is largely dependent

‘on the state of the economy. Higher wages,

as a result of an economic upswing, could
provide more funds for the program,
giving it a boost.

The problem with this optimistic
approach is that it is based on a rather
optimistic economic forecasts. As a result,
any unforeseen economic downturn could
destroy even the best-laid plans based on
this theory.

Not to mention that ignoring the

problem for a while, just because we can,
will not actually change the fact that Social
Security will run out eventually. Some
action must be taken now, not left for
future generations.

The question is, which course of
action is most appropriate? To sustain the
current system, we could increase payroll
taxes and decrease beneﬁts. While this
would be a secure way to ensure the
survival of the program, it is not the best.

By taking this approach, future
recipients of Social Security will receive
even less return on their money, making
the system increasingly less equitable to
future generations.

Another approach, while
deemed somewhat risky, is to allow
citizens to invest a portion of their Social
Security taxes in privately-owned
investment accounts.

One such plan is called the Model
2 Plan, which was proposed by the
Commission to Strengthen Social Security.

The Model 2 Plan would allow
private investment of a portion of one’s

Social Security taxes amounting to 4
percent of one’s taxable income. This

_ plan would stabilize the system by

2050, economists predict.

It is possible that one could end
up with slightly less money with the
Model 2 Plan than with the current
system. However, it is more likely that
taxpayers would get a much better
return on their contributions (the
average person born in 2000 will only
earn 0.86 percent return).

Though some politicians fear
this plan would subject taxpayers to the
rise and fall of the market, it would
solve the major problems with the
current Social Security system.

Most importantly, it would keep
the system aﬂoat and would prevent it
from dipping into its surplus (which is
currently being used by other
government programs).

Furthermore, it would put some
of the taxpayers’ money back into the
control of the taxpayer, instead of the
government.

LETTERSTO THE EDITOR

Reader decries lack of cystic ﬁbrosis ball coverage by the Phi

Dear Editor, '

Congratulations on your new design
for the Phi. I enjoyed perusing it; I turned
each page expectantly, impressed with the
fine color photography and artwork. But
as I came upon the last page, my heart
sunk. Not once was last Saturday’s Cystic
Fibrosis Charity BaH mentioned. There
were no photographs.

Not even one iota of text was
devoted to an event attended by at least

one hundred students, an event which
featured Burr Datz and his band of W&L
alumni, or an event which raised over
$3000 for a charitable cause. Senior Jon
Leﬂer poured out his heart and soul to put
on an elegant ball and to raise money for
Cystic Fibrosis.

To ignore such a signiﬁcant event
in the W&L community is somewhat
insulting, and is certainly disheartening for
those who volunteered and selflessly
sacriﬁced their time for sake of charity.

Pro—life article sheds

Dear Editor, p

In the January 24"‘ edition of the
Ring Tum Phi an editorial was published
by Theresa Dougherty that left me cold,
unsettled, and ultimately very
disappointed. Abortion is such a polarized
issue in our country that I have little faith
anything I could possibly say might
penetrate her ideological defenses, if she
even bothers to read this, but getting some
of these thoughts down on paper will at
least be somewhat cathartic for me.

First, it saddened me to see the
words of Thomas Jefferson, one of our
country’s greatest men, bandied about
attached involuntarily and out of context
to a debate that has devolved into nothing
better than a national shouting match. It
is indeed convenient to prominently drop
the name of a founding father to bolster
your cause, but Ms. Dougherty, I can
hardly visualize Jefferson the Colonial
clad all in black attempting to bomb an
abortion clinic or taking careful aim with
a high-powered riﬂe at a doctor and a
patient in a parking lot.

Wait, I’m sorry, that wasn’t really
fair was it? Well, while we're on the
subject of fairness in constructing a logical
argument, please allow me to quote you:
“I do not know what it is like to be raped,
but I would guess that the emotional
trauma of the actual rape followed by the
decision to have an abortion could only
inﬂict further  harm on the woman.”
You may guess a lot of things on any given
day, will it snow today, will my professor
give us a pop quiz, will the srat lunch suck
again, but to “guess” about the physical

Offensive Quick

Dear Editor,

I write today ﬁrst to applaud your
attempt to bring the Phi to a new level of
journalistic integrity through last week’s
much—improved layout and the enhanced
contributions of your writing staff.

Unfortunately, I also write today to
express a deep disappointment. In last
week’s series of “Quick Hits” I was
surprised, if not shocked, to read the
following submission:

“I ﬁgured it out —- Tom Burish is just
Adam Hutchinson's puppet for tuning this
school as gay as Williams or Amherst or
wherever he went.”

Not only does this submission
contain an offensive colloquialism, it
reveals the author to be rather misinformed.

and emotional damage a rape victim
suffers is both naive and pathetic. I am a
man, therefore the odds that I myself will
be raped in my lifetime are rniniscule at
best, but I bear the burden of being part of
the gender that overwhelmingly plays the
role of rapist.

On a daily basis I am reminded of
this fact, of my guilt by association, and
yet your statement leads me to believe that
despite the best educational efforts of
hundreds of women’s groups throughout
the country and around the world, and
even here on campus, you have somehow
managed to completely miss or shut
yourself away from the horrible realities
of rape itself. It is a disgusting, barbaric
act that leaves the victim physically hurt,
psychologically shattered, and perhaps
most frustratingly — oftentimes deeply
ashamed about a situation in which they
were the victim.

Perhaps you feel that by letting the
reader know you “have at least one person
in your life conceived through rape” you
somehow become invulnerable to dissent
on this topic. Forget it. Allow me to
propose another possible outcome of the
above situation: what if the victim, to her
horror, learns that she is pregnant with the
child of her attacker?

What if she cannot bring herself to
overcome the psychological link between
this fetus and the act during which she was
so terribly violated? Worse yet, what if this
child grows to closely visually resemble
its mother’s attacker? Must this woman
be forced to relive that horriﬁc moment
every day for the rest of her life every time

Hit criticized

In the literal sense of the word, neither
Williams nor Amherst is any gayer than
Washington and Lee. Trust me, if they
were, I’d be a Purple Cow (Williams) or a
Lord Jeff (Amherst) instead of a General.
Overall, I don’t believe the submission to
be intentionally offensive, largely because
the term “gay” is unfortunately used so
commonly in a derogatory way. However,
that should not keep you, the editors, from
judiciously screening submissions in order
to maintain the “journalistic integrity,
dignity, and respect” touted on your front
page. Your choice to retain and print this
submission exposes either your temporary
lapse in judgment or your ignorance and
prejudice. I’m hope it is the former.
Steve Martinenza ‘05

I realize that your recent re design
was a time consuming and arduous
process, but I do not think it unreasonable
to ask for at least some mention of
Saturday’s Ball. With all luck and hope,
we will be holding the ball next year, and
a story, a picture, or even a blurb however
small would have been welcome
publicity for next year’s event.

No one worked for recognition, we
all worked to beneﬁt CF research, and an
article showing the rest of the W&L what

an exciting and fun event the ball was,
would, I could only have hoped, helped
with next year’s fund raising. Please
consider providing some coverage in next
week’s edition and next year, both before,
and most certainly after, the ball.

Sincerely,

J arnes Heidbreder

little light on subject

she sees this poor bastard child simply
because YOU think she should?

Lest I begin bore you with my
silly remarks, let us examine only one
more possibility. One keystone issue of the
Pro-choice side of the debate was
conspicuously missing from your article,
that of ectopic pregnancies. Perhaps, like
your apparent misunderstanding of the
severity of rape, you aren’t quite up to date
on your understanding of the subject.

Please allow me to educate you. An
ectopic pregnancy occurs when the ovum
implants somewhere besides the
endometrial lining of the uterus. This
happens most often in the Fallopian tubes,
but it can also occur elsewhere. To cut to
the chase, if the fetus is allowed to be
carried to term the end result is almost
certain death for the mother and generally
the fetus as well.

The most common and effective
treatment is removal of the pregnancy, a
very early term abortion, but a form of
abortion nonetheless. A total ban on
abortion might help you sleep better at
night, but it would be signing the death
sentence of 1 out of every 4000 mothers-
to-be in this country. This brings me to the
point of my entire response.

The rights granted by the Roe v.
Wade decision are not about the callous
use of abortion in place of safe sex, tl1ey’re
not about a mother’s relieved ending of
her fetus’ life because it appears to have a
cleft palate or Down’s Syndrome, they’re
about guaranteeing the safety of the
minority against the views of the majority,
and they’re about moderation.

Dear Editor,

I LOVED the article in your
most recent issue about women
needing to know their place. I laughed
SO hard I started crying.

It was probably the funniest part
of my week and I plan to hang it on my
wall where I can read it whenever I
need a laugh.

I want to compliment you all for
being able to see the humor in a satire
like that and not taking it in a serious
manner.

It is my opinion that anyone who
would take offense at a high schooler’s

There are Pro-choice activists who
would like all abortion restrictions lifted,
who would like the ability to receive an
abortion under any circumstances at any
time in the pregnancy, and there are just
as many if not more Pro—life activists who
would like any and all forms of abortion
banned ﬂat out.

This might come as a shock to you,
but neither of these positions is the answer.
From the tone of your article I, the reader,
sense that you are one of the “Pro—life at
all costs” people, and I pray that never in
your life will you be faced with your
obstetrician telling you that you have an
ectopic pregnancy or that you never have
to deal with the absolute horror of rape
and the second numbing shock of being
told you carry your attacker’s child.

The choice of having an abortion is
a deeply personal decision, perhaps the
most personal one a woman could ever be
asked to make. The laws are in place to
ensure that each woman is able to make
that decision on her own, safe from the
idealistic shouts and demands of a person
who carmot, simply cannot, possibly know
the true weight crushing down upon that
poor woman’s shoulders.

Sincerely,

Drew Heath, ‘05

Reader delights in
recent Phi parody piece

joke like that is very insecure on their
position of women’s rights and I think
it is awesome that you saw it for the
comedic work that is was.

Thank you so much for
brightening my week so much and I can
only hope that those who were
offended by such a silly article
eventually acquire a funny bone.

Sincerely,

Brooke Sanden ‘O6

 

8 0 THERNG-TLIVIPHI

 

word

 

MGDAY,JAMJAHY 31 ,2[X5

H

 

f\

Due to concerns
regarding'an offensive
Quick Hit this past week,
we are taking a week off
and revising this section.
“Quick Hits, ” in its
current form, is dead. The
concept of an anonymous
forum is very much alive.
To preserve
anonymous forum that
Quick Hits provided we
will now pose a topic each
weekand allow students to
respond by replying to
phi @wlu.edu.
These responses will
be anonymous,'as were
QuickHits. We are posing

the A

topics in order to direct
campus dialogue
surrounding interesting
and important campus
life issues. Respond
however you want:
honestly, humorously, or
seriously. We want to
ensure students have a
place where they feel
comfortable expressing
their honest opinions
about campus life.

TtI'sweek’s1opic:
Alooholpolicy
enforcement, 2
monlhslater.

Voting

is

really trashy

The Fisherman gives his take on
personal responsibility at W&L

Bynughrmui

ll-EFS‘E:MPN

No really, it is. But beyond just
voting, caring about large scale events in
general is for suckers. Elections? Lame.
Trying to work towards goals? Too much
effort. Having beliefs that you care about?
Yeah, and you probably also think helping
poor people out is good too. Loser.
Apathy is way too underrated, primarily
because those who don’t care, don’t care
enough to stick up for what is important
and paramount in their lives: the principle
that at the end of the day, screw it.

Well, I am here to speak up for these
voiceless people. So, let me outline a few
fundamental principles that must be
understood. First, if it doesn’t directly
beneﬁt you or just feel good in the next
ﬁve minutes, let someone else handle it.
This includes any sort of community
service, striving to make a change in the
world and paying taxes. How do you think
I look so hot all the time in my trendy
clothes? By paying taxes? No way man,
Ikeep it real. Also, the rule about stopping

. for red lights is much more ‘lax in our

world. It’s not so much that I have hit
three people, as they hit me and my car.
While some may call that a hit and run
and a felony, I call it being polite enough
not to make a big deal out of a broken
headlight and bloodstains on my
windshield. My benevolence knows no
bounds. And seeing how that little girl
was in a wheel chair, I much prefer to think
of that one more as a car crash than hitting
a normal person on foot.

But The Fisherman isn’t the only
good looking, well-known person who
understands that responsibility and
participation blow, there are others. For
instance, professional football player
Ricky Williams finally came to the
realization that instead of spending the
time and energy playing football, he could
instead just sit back and enjoy his hobbies

while letting others put in the effort.
Way to go, Ricky. Also, pretty much
any NBA player displays a thorough
understanding that while some kids
may look up to them as role models,
that really shouldn’t stop them from
committing crimes and not bothering
to play in the Olympics. After all, who
cares about the Olympics anyway?

And for my personal favorite,
Paris Hilton has managed to turn not
doing anything and only seeking
pleasure into a very lucrative career. I
was thinking about asking her to Fancy
Dress, but then again, I don’t want to
put in the effort of the phone call, and
I’m sure she is busy making money by
looking down on poor people and
having it ﬁlmed.

I bet you’re thinking that I must
be failing out of school with this
attitude. Well, since you probably still
think your “live strong” bracelet is cool,
I’l1 fill you in on what’s up. Not doing
well in school is very in style these days.
Failing is the new passing. Know what
else is in style? Kids who vomit in the
bathroom but miss the toilet.
Remember, at the end of the day it’s
not you that has to clean it up, which
means there is no reason to care about
it. So be creative in where you puke.
Just the other day I puked on someone’s
cat.

In conclusion, get some class and
learn not to bother yourself with trivial
things that small-minded people have
convinced you ‘are important. Don’t
vote, give to charity, be employed, help
the needy or participate in any way that
might lead to something. Sit back and
let the other people worry about that.
After all, you‘re now one of the elites,
everyone else is just here for your
entertainment. Tune in next week when
I explain the source of all evil: orphans.
I mean really, what’s with them

anyway?

So be creative in where you puke. Just the
other day I puked on someone ’s cat.

 

What would Bobby Lee do?

Bymashalnue
FUTATOMPN

Everyday college students are faced
with difficult choices. Should I cut off
the mold on the pizza before eating it, or
should I just eat it as is? Problems like
this are encountered every day by young,
hormone—driven college students. Luckily
for Washington and Lee students, we have
a role model to look up to.

Whenever a student here has a
problem, they just think WWRELD.
That’s right, what would Robert E. Lee
do? I know that many of you are skeptical
of the idea that you can still have fun while
listening to Bobby Lee; after all, he is the
man who started that whole honor thing.

But Mr. Lee didn-’t always color
inside the lines. Many times he didn’t even
color at all. Instead he was out getting
drunk.

What was his favorite drink you
ask? Mike’s Hard Lemonade. He drank
that stuff up. Once Abraham Lincoln
called him a sissy for drinking it at a frat
party. Robert E. Lee was so pissed that he
started the Civil War over it.

As you can see Mr. Lee was a
normal man just like you or me. He had
his ﬂaws, and compensated for those ﬂaws
by fighting for the south just to piss Abe
“goody-two-shoes’,’ Lincoln off.

And it worked for Bobby. He has a

Once Abraham Lincoln called him a sissy for
drinking [Mike’s Hard] at a frat party. Robert
E. Lee was so pissed that he started the Civil

War over it.

whole region that considers him a small
step above God.

This is why we should incorporate
Robert E’s lifestyle into our own. For
instance, when you have to decide whether
or not to pull the trigger after a long night
of drinking, just ask yourself WWRELD?
I’ll tell you what Robert E. Lee would do.
Robert E. Lee would pull that trigger; pull
that trigger all over that kid from New
Jersey. Darrin Yankee.

Are you a freshman guy right now?
If the answer is yes, you should listen to
Robert E. Lee. Were you thinking about
going to the hazing website? Were you
thinking about rolling over on your best
friends? Ask yourself WWRELD? Do
you think Bobby never went through a
little hazing? You may have had to clean
the kitchen, but Mr. Lee had to do

something involving a 9 iron, a gallon of

ketchup, and a four dollar hooker. An
you thought you had it bad. ‘

The next time you wake up to a
woman twice your size in your own bed
and don’t know how to act, just ask
yourself WWRELD? Robert E. Lee would
do the same thing you want to do... run
like hell and don’t look back. You should
have seen the first time Robert E. Lee
hooked up with Susan B. Anthony. He
was halfway to Atlanta before he stopped
to rest. After you get out of town, stay out
of town, then move to a remote town in
the Shenandoah Valley to be president of
a college.

Let’s be honest Mr. Lee didn’t come
to W&L (at the time it was simply called
W&) to teach, he came to hide from the
nympho monster named Susan'B.

So next time you are trying to make
the decision between getting drunk and
going to class, do what Robert E. Lee
would do... get drunk before going to
class, after all attendance is 5% of your
grade.

Mono equa s root of a evil

ByKrist'neEa1y

lVlJ(Af\DO£ESEGlFL

So, contrary to last week’s article,
coffee isn’t enough to keep this northern
gal alive and kickin’. A few days before
the January 24th issue of the Phi hit the
stands I was diagnosed with. . ..drum roll,
please... strep throat and mono.
Starbucks, you know I love and respect
you, but not even a vaunted venti espresso
macchiatto with skim milk can help me
now.

Looking back, I should have known
something was wrong long before I made
an appointment at the health center. Two
days in a row I was under the covers by
8:30 p.m. And by now you should realize
that this girl doesn’t exactly subscribe to
the “early to bed, early to rise” philosophy-
especially on Wednesday nights. Maybe
the sore throat should have been a clue,
too. Of course, pride is a hard thing to
swallow.

They say that money is the root of
all evil. Drop the “ey” and add “o,” and I
might just agree with the ever elusive but
clearly wise “they.” Mono is a cruel, cruel
disease, trying even the most patient
individual.

Let’s put this “mono” thing into
context. The zenith of my weekend was
eating a bowl of Rocky Road ice cream.
Now, don’t get me wrong. Rocky Road
ice cream is amazing. Scratch that.
AMAZING Which is why I went back for
a second bowl. And a third. Yes, I am the
only person on the entire face of the earth

who could manage to gain two pounds
immediately after coming down with
mono. What can I say? I’m just that
“special.”

But maybe I am being a bit too
dramatic. Maybe my weekend wasn’t that
bad. After all, in addition to sitting around
eating ice cream, I did get to catch up on
pop culture. Yes, I sure did.

I don’t have cable in my room, so I
watched eighteen consecutive episodes of
Sex and the City. And it was good.
However, not even nine hours of awkward
sexual situations and off—the—wall fashion
managed to make me any stronger. I was
left with no choice but to check into the
infirmary.

The nurses that work at the
infirmary are wonderful, wonderful
people. They did everything they could to
make sure I was cornfoitable— bringing me
blankets and hot meals and snacks and
checking up on me often to make sure I
was doing okay. However, as you can
imagine, the infirmary is not an exciting
place. Thus, once again, I relied on the TV
for amusement. It had been quite awhile
since I’d seen “Full House,” “The Nanny,”
“Golden Girls,” “Family Ties” and “Step
by Step.” I don’t know how I managed so
long without the Uncle Jesse, Fran
Drescher and Steve Erkel. Tell me: how
did I manage?

Of course, my saving grace was
Lifetime. It is, after all, the “network for
women,” and I clearly possess XY genes.
Lifetirne’s schedule is chalk-full of such
gems as “Too Young to Be a Dad,” a made-

for-television movie about a fifteen year-
old fatlrer-to-be featuring such “stars” as
Kathy Baker, Bruce Davison and Paul
Franklin Darmo. I don’t want to give the
plot away. Suffice it to say, it’s a real
tearjerker. And then there was “Dangerous
Son.” Blood, sweat, tears... I was
clutching my hospital sheet in suspense.
Thanks to Lifetime I also learned about
the baby black market. Who said TV is a
waste of time?

Ice cream, “Golden Girls,”
Lifetime... As you can see, I’m living the
highlife. Let’s compare weekends. While
you were braving the cold to make it from
Pi Phi to Windfall, I was bundled up under
a down comforter watching high quality-
viewing material. While you were
chugging down a third Natty Light in an
attempt to impress the boys, I was classily
sipping good ole’ chicken noodle soup.
And while you were trying to fend off that
clumsy dancer, I was dreaming of Patrick
Swayze.

Okay, maybe I’m pushing it. But
I’m an optirriist. You have to be to survive
the Midwest for upwards of eighteen
years.

Have no fear, dear readers. Your
Milk and Cheese Girl will be back and
with a vengeance. It may be a month or
two before I’m on the scene again, but
“nobody puts [this] baby in the comer.”

On a side note, I am not a leper. You
will not catch mono by sitting next to me.
Unless I spit on you. But, on my honor, I
promise not to engage in such a nefarious
activity.

How to spot a Keydet in good old Lex

Due to
popular demand (or
an extreme case of
boredom on my
part), your favorite
grey-clad writer is
back in the saddle
one week earlier

' ' . than expected.
JonathanProctor Without further
THEGUY”EXlDOOR ado, away we go...

T h o u g h

normally one can spot a Keydet from a
mile away, occasionally when wearing our
blazer and Ronald McDonald tie or
sneaking uptown in (spitting noise)
civilian attire, we may manage to blend in
(especially when the eye of the beholder

is glassy and dilated). Therefore I thought ’

that I would offer some helpful hints as to
how one may identify said Keydets on a
glorious, Lex-tastic weekend.

If one is at the Palms, then
recognizing a Veemie is a rudimentary
task. All you have to do is find the guy
that is treated with disdain by the staff,
talks/shouts way too loudly and stares
down every Minkette as if he were the lion

[a Keydet] stares down every Minkette as if he
were the lion and she the gazelle

and she the gazelle. Upon exiting the I

establishment, he will more than likely
stumble on the disproportionate stairs
(which should really be fixed), where he
will then be arrested for being drunk in
public (do not scoff, dear readers, for it
has happened on more than one occasion).
After spending a night with Rockbridge
County’s finest, he will then get in trouble
upon returning to Post and spend the next
few months on conf1nement(a.k.a. “time-
out”).

When at the Mirage, the best place
to ﬁnd a Keydet would be to look at the
dance ﬂoor for one of two possible
situations: (a) a group of eight to twelve
virile young men dancing a bit too closely
together, belting out the chorus of
“November Rain” with a bit too much
zeal, or (b) a lone couple re—enacting
scenes from our favorite episode of “The
Grind”, the male in his early twenties and

the female in her early forties (fresh off of
the Wal—Mart night shift). These are the
things that happen when your living
conditions would rate as the third—lowest
among the nation’s prisons and you envy
the love life of a three—toed sloth.

Remember, when one encounters a
Keydet outside of his natural habitat, one
should not be meek due to our lack of
social graces. I assure you that we are
indeed some of the most well-mannered
people that you will ever come across, but
on those nights when we attempt to drown
our Pain and Sorrow (that’s right. . .capital
P, capital S; it is, in fact, that bad), it would
be prudent to leave well enough alone.
Otherwise, we are always looking for a
good time, ladies and gentlemen, so feel
free to say hello or even to buy us a round,
or ﬁve. Until next time, neighbors, keep
on truckin’...

’7  £37.52’/55

WHAT’S INSIDE

The Guy Next Door
Jonathan Proctor speaks to the W&L
community about the offensive

_4I

pictures that surfaced
online last
week
featuring
VMI cadets.

Seemore
onpage4

 
 
   
  

Root of all evil

Marshall Rule reviews the “high
energy non-stop party” held at the
Pavilion last Thursday featuring
popular band The Roots.

See moreon page 4

 

HOT TICKET

Das Stage

German 332 students take to the
Johnson stage in “Ma'rschenwald,” a
play combining a variety of fairytales
in which the actors speak in German.
The play runs on February 7-9 at 8:00
p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

Go Fish

Underwater animated feature “Shark
Tale” runs in the Commons Theater
on Mon. Feb. 7, at 7:00 p.m., as well
as on Tues. Feb. 8, Thurs. Feb. 10,
and Fri. Feb. 11, at 9:30 p.m.

FROM THE 

SummaryofHonorActivityfor
the2004-2005AcademicYear
February 1,2005

Ilnvestigationsz 9
-Withdrawals while being
Investigated: 0

IWithdrawals in Face of a Closed
Hearing: 1

-Closed Hearings:,3

-Guilty Verdicts in Closed
Hearings: 0

INot Guilty Verdicts in Closed
-Hearings: 3

lStudent Body Hearings: 0

QUICK POLL

Qzwhatisthebestplaoe
toeatin Lexington?

   
 

SOUTHERN INN
CAFE MICHEL

  

ms amcx
C’  if HOUSE
DON TEQUlLA’S

57 students polled, 27 male, 30 female.
Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin oi error.

 

   
 

Former Phi editor returns 

ByEIinJIliusmdCtIisLaidermm
EJTGSIN-G193

Former sports editor of The Ring-
tum Phi was back in town this weekend
for the Board of Trustee’s meeting and to
sign his latest novel, I Am Charlotte
Simmons.

Tom Wolfe discussed the writing of
his novels, fraternity life at Washington
and Lee and the direction of the journalism
profession in a press conference Saturday.

In researching college life for I Am
Charlotte Simmons, Wolfe did not spend
time at his alma mater.

“I wanted a safe harbor to come
back to,” Wolfe said.

He did admit that the novel drew
upon fraternity life.

As for whether the novel is an
adequate description of college life, “I was
as accurate as I could be,” he said.

In doing his research, Wolfe was
most fascinated with women’s language
on college campuses. He said he was
particularly shocked by vulgar phrases
such as “I need to get laid” and “I scored
with him.” '

“To hear a girl say, ‘I scored so—and—
so’—big deal,” Wolfe said, “maybe it’s a
big deal if it’s the other way around.”

Wolfe said he is looking forward to
coming back to campus as the
commencement speaker this year. “I am
bowled over by that. To be chosen to break
with that tradition...I consider it an
honor,” he said.

4
I

CORBIN BLACKFORDI PHOTO EDITOR

Ce|ebIatedauﬂ1ora1dW&LalumTomWoliereiumedforabooksig1ingandto

ohatwiihtheW&Lcommunity.

Grade inﬂation was something
Wolfe noticed throughout the Ivy League
schools when he was researching for his
novel. “Even a ﬂat B is looked upon these

A days as close to an  Wolfe said.

He cited the example of a Harvard
professor who gave students two grades———
one, never below a B, went to the registrar

and another, reﬂecting the student’s true
abilities, was only shared with the student.

Big—time college sports play a big
role in I Am Charlotte Simmons. Wolfe
expressed dismay over the state of college-
level Division I sports. “This system
cannot go on much longer,” he said, “the
corruption is so manifest.”

 

R552
W103!
V °— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
THE RING=T UM PHI.
N|0M)AY,FEBRUARY7,ZI5 BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLlMlEC’ValTtllvBER2'I7)!

Wolfe proposed a system in which
big universities hire athletes to play sports.
The athletes would not be students, and
after four years, if such athletes cannot go
pro, the university would then offer them
a free four—year education. Wolfe said the
athletes would take academics more
seriously after failing to go pro.

Though Wolfe spent a lot of time
reporting for I Am Charlotte Simmons, he
believes the novel as a genre is dead.’ “The
novel is in serious trouble,” Wolfe said,
“All the great American novels were based
on reporting. There is now too much
emphasis on psychological nuance.”

As a Phi Kappa Sigma at
Washington and Lee, Wolfe chose not to
drink. “I felt it was immoral. . .I was not a
rebellious son,” he said.

“I don’t remember feeling socially
immobilized...but it upset a lot of my
fraternity members,” he said. One
fraternity brother got down on his knees
and begged Wolfe to drink. I

“I was ruining the reputation of the
whole place. It didn’t help that I wore a
fedora.”

In modern college life, Wolfe said,
“Student behavior was pretty uniform,
whether at Stanford or Florida.”

As for students’ alcohol
consumption, “This new term
today. . .binge drinking. . .in the past there
was just no term for it,” he said.

Though he spent months on college
campuses, “I have no idea what could be
done about college drinking,” Wolfe said,
“much of it is insanity.”

Underage drinkin

BVVV”m9VD“"V
sr~=I=wmEn

In late December 2004, President
Thomas Burish, sent a letter to students
and their parents regarding the
enforcement of the school’s alcohol policy.

As Burish emphasized in this letter,
“...there are no new rules governing
alcohol (and drug) use on campus.” The
new enforcement, which began Christmas
Weekend, included two major changes.
First, it gave the security officers at the
school the power to “write up” underage
drinkers, and second, in conjunction with
the IFC, it implemented the use of
wristbands to designate students of age to
drink at on—campus parties.

i The policy caused widespread
uproar and debate among students at the
time; among major concerns were
increased off—campus drinking, more
secretive behavior with regards to alcohol,
and other safety issues, including
increased danger of sexual assault as a
result of these actions.

These concerns, however, were
speculative. Almost two months since the
po1icy’s institution, new issues have arisen
among the student body, including the
ramiﬁcations of drinking under the Honor
System.

One Executive Committee
representative, who preferred to remain

anonymous, said, “Underage drinking has
been an area that the Executive Committee
has traditionally found to be irrelevant to
the question of honor.”

This mentality, however, may be
forced to change in light of the university’s
new scrutiny. While the use of wristbands
may have, in theory, seemed to be an
effective approach to curbing underage
drinking, it has been less than successful
in reality.

This is partially because once a
student has been carded by a TIPS
bartender and has received a wristband,
that student will not be carded again.
Knowing this to be the practice, many
underage students have been able to
procure wristbands and drink at on-
campus parties without being asked to
show ID.

The EC representative said, “The
new alcohol policy creates the question,
‘Is it an honor violation to wear a
wristband underage?’ Ifthe answer to this
question is yes, then the new alcohol
policy may create a plethora of honor
violations.”

Is wearing a, wristband when
underage a common practice at on—carnpus
parties? Mary Catherine Burdine ’08
thinks so. “Since the entire campus is in

i an uproar, most people underage will drink

underage. People don’t want to change
their habits, it’s a lifestyle we’re used to.”

Courtney Dolaway ‘08 agreed with
Burdine, saying that she has not seen

debate continues

anyone lie outright but has seen underage
students obtain alcohol by using a
wristband.

A W&L sophomore, who preferred
to stay anonymous, disagrees. “I don’t
think that’s much of an issue. . .if someone
underage wants a drink, they can pretty
easily just get one from someone who is
old enough.”

“I think the temptation is greater
[under the new system], but I have yet to
notice someone tell the bartender they are
21 if they are not,” said one freshman, who
requested anonymity. “I know I have
wanted to lie, but I never have.”

The EC representative remains
skeptical that students will face honor
violations as a result of the new policy, at
least for the moment. “It seems difﬂcult
to convict a student of an honor violation
just because a new policy has forced him/
her to be more blatant about what was once
a tacitly acceptable practice.

“So far, there has been little issue
with the new alcohol policy, because it has
been enforced weakly. But if it is enforced
strongly, and many underage students wear
wristbands at parties, then it will be up to
the Executive Committee to gauge
whether the student body feels that
wearing a wristband underage to get beer
at a frat party is an honor violation."

“They [the students] are going to
drink,” said Dolaway. “People want to
drink, and they won’t follow the Honor
System if it keeps them from doing

something that they want.”

“The Honor System adapts to
changing circumstances and it will
certainly transform to accommodate the
demands of the new alcohol system at
W&L,” one sophomore said.

“The temptation is there,’ said
another freshman. “But instead of
breaking the honor code, I think people
will work around it [the alcohol policy].”

According to the EC representative,
“It remains to be seen how the Honor
System as a whole will react to the alcohol
policy. The alcohol policy renews the
question as to whether the Honor System
should enforce purely academic honor.”

“Academically speaking, with
personal property, with people leaving
their doors unlocked...that will stay the
same,” Burdine said. “But [students’
mentality about] parties, alcohol,
possession under 21 and drinking in the
dorms is going to change.”

“No one, at Washington and Lee or
elsewhere, has all the answers to the
problem of alcohol misuse,” Burish said
in the conclusion of his letter outlining the
alcohol policy. He noted that the
administration is planning a thorough
evaluation during the next academic year
of the current alcohol policies, and that
this review will include student opinions.

President Burish and the Executive
Committee were contacted to provide
comment for this article but were unable
to do so before our deadline.

7

Homebound student program limited

Students run into issues of frustration due to educational disadvantages

ByLed1Kersmw
SEl~U=tSTAFFWFiiTEFi

In 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court
made its landmark decision in Brown v.
Board of Education, stating that separate
but equal schools are inherently unequal.
In Rockbridge County, another form of
inequality exists for/students forced by
illness to remain at home.

The homebound student program is
designed for students who are mentally or
physically ill and will be absent from
school for two weeks or longer. The
student’s absence from school must be
approved by a medical doctor. This
absence is granted to students who expect
to return to school in the near future.

The average high school student
attends classes for 36 hours per week. The

Virginia Department of Education states
that high school students receiving
homebound instruction must be tutored for
a minimum of 10 hours per week in three
or four subjects. In Rockbridge County,
however, high school students receive a
maximum of 10 hours per week.

Deborah Pruett, a guidance
counselor at Rockbridge County High
School, said that school systems are
financially strapped and have limited
funds to devote to the homebound
program. She also said that since students
are able to learn more effectively with one-
on-one instruction, the hunted number of
tutoring hours available to homebound
students is not a major issue.

But Karen Pleva, a veteran
homebound tutor for Rockbridge County
schools, said that the time limit hurts
students who cannot work on their own.

Homebound students find the
experience of learning at home to be lonely
and frustrating. Joe Hawes, a freshman at
Washington and Lee University, was a
homebound student for the last four
months of his senior year at Rockbridge
County High School. Complications of
diabetes forced Hawes to miss the majority
of his last two years of high school.
Struggling with chronic sickness and
falling behind in his school work, Hawes
received homebound instruction so that he
could graduate with his class.

Hawes said that he was hesitant to
go on homebound because it would have
taken him from all of his friends. He
missed participating in classroom
discussions and bonding events, like the
senior trip to Busch Gardens in
Williarnsburg, Va.

“I didn’t see my friends for months

on end,” Hawes said.

According to Pruett, five to ten
students participate in Rockbridge County
High School's homebound program every
year. The school also provides homebound
tutors to students who are new ‘mothers
for up to six weeks after they give birth.

Pruett said that Rockbridge County
High School administrators try to limit a
student’s absence from school to less than
three months because they may begin to
lose their motivation after a longer
absence. She said that this can be
problematic because the homebound
students are supposed to be learning the
same amount of material at home as they
would in a classroom. She also said that
when homebound students do not learn as
much as they are supposed to, they fall

Seel.OCALonpage2

 

MGVDAY. FEBRUARY 7,215

Consumer Reports health policy editor 3
calls for nationalized healthcare system

ByCIrisLa1dennm
 E

In Santa Cruz, California, Laura is
diagnosed with breast cancer and carmot
afford $110 a month for medicine on her
$860 a month salary. Keshawn, in
Washington DC was diagnosed with nasal
cancer at age 20, but dies at 21 because he
couldn’t get the care he needed.

According to Trudy Lieberman,
Health Policy Editor of Consumer
Reports, who spoke in the Washington and
Lee University Commons on Feb. 2,
healthcare has become a luxury and is
available only to those who can pay in
America. People like Laura and Keshawn
do not have access to medical care.

Lieberman called for nationalized
health care in her lecture. She pointed out
that every industrialized nation has a
nationalized plan except for the United
States.

“No other healthcare system costs
as much as ours and covers so little,”
Lieberman said.

She also said that price controls
were needed in the healthcare industry.
Price controls, for example, mean that a
certain drug can cost only so much money.
According to Lieberman, we can’t let
markets control the price of healthcare.
When economists speak of a “free market
economy” they are saying that people
demand healthcare and that it is supplied
by hospitals and insurance companies.
The people demanding and the companies
supplying settle on a price that people are
willing to pay and a price that the hospitals
are willing to accept. This fundamental

“No other healthcare system costs as much as
ours and covers so little.”

-TRLDYLEBEFKNIAMI-EALTHPOI.K2‘YEI3I'TOROFCONSUN$REPORl$

 

principal forms the capitalist society.
Many consider price controls to be
communist philosophy, but proponents of
price controls say that they can work in
our economic system.

“There is a reason for price
controls,” Tim Diette, a visiting Professor
of Economics at Washington and Lee, who
was attending the lecture, said. “If people
shopped for hospitals, it [a free market
economy] would work, but that doesn’t
happen.”

He went on to say that the market
for health care becomes imperfect because
of this consumer apathy. If people do not
gather information, they cannot choose the
service they are receiving. No one has time
to shop for hospitals from the back of an
ambulance. Patients go wherever the
ambulance takes them.

What’s more, pharmaceutical
companies who are sole providers of a
drug are often able to raise prices as high
as possible.

Lieberman explained what her talk
means to the average American. She said
that eventually, more people than just
Laura and Keshawn will experience the
healthcare crunch. According to
Lieberman, consumer-driven health plans
are the wave of the future. These plans
mean more than just higher co-pay at

doctor visits. Consumer-driven health
plans, for example, would have a patient
pay the first $5000 of medical bills—
essentially high-deductible insurance.

“Who can buy these?” Lieberman
asked. “Not the uninsured.”

Despite that fact, she said
politicians, the current administration, and
the insurance industry are all supportive
of consumer driven health plans.

She told the story of a doctor in
Florida who “blackmailed” his patients.
In order for him to keep seeing them, he
required a $125 fee from his patients to
pay for his malpractice insurance.
Lieberman said this will become a trend
that America cannot afford.

She asked, “Where does that leave
us as a country?”

The answer she posed was to “think
about me.” Everyone needs to think about
themselves and what they would do on
their own behalves. She asked if her
audience wanted a country where only the
rich could attain beneﬁts.

Lieberman’s speech was received
well with an ovation by the audience.

“It’s really pertinent to our future,”
Matt Reilley ‘06, a neuroscience/computer
science double major, said. ‘‘If the current
system cannot hold up for ten years, we
are going to have major problems.”

Local homebound  

students, continued.

Caauadaununﬁmmge
behind academically, which

makes reentry into the classroom
difﬁcult. . A

Pleva, who has 28 years of .

experience, said homebound tutoring
can be clifficultjespeciaily if a student
isn’t interested. and doesn’t want to

complete his or her work. But she said A

that when a student does succeed, it is
always satisfying. .

’ I-lomebouind students are forced
to rely on the cooperation between
their tutors and teachers. Sarah
Blaekoum. a guidance counselor at
Rockbridge County High School, said
that some teachers resent the
homebound program because it puts
an extra burden  them to create and
grade ‘assignments for the students.

Beth Lollis, a math teacher at

Rockbridge County High School, said I

homebound students can be
problematic because it can be hard to
connect with the tutors, especially if
theyedo not work at RCHS. The
personal connection between teacher
and tutor is important because it
ensures that they know each other’s
expectations’.

“Homebound is not a good
situation, especially in math, because
the student comes back to school and
I have to reteach the information to
him or her,” she said.

Lollis teaches a student who

was homebound from November to
January. The student has now
returned to school, but she did not
regularly meet with her homebound
tutor and has not yet fulﬁlled the
requirements from last semester.
Loilis said that she is now in a hard
position regarding the student's grade
and is unsure of the proper action to
take.

Homebound tutoring is hard to
depend on for a steady income
because of the variability of students
needs. Susan Dittman, who works as
a K42 tutor for all Rockbridge
County public schoois. said it is

— impossible to predict how many

students you will have at a particular '
time and how many hours each
student will need you. Only two of

' Dittmarfs students have used the full

10 hours per week allotted to them.

Dittman said cooperation from
teachers can be problematic because
tutors have to seek out some of the
teachers to get the assignments for the
students. The $18 per hour that each
tutor cams does not apply to travel
time or time used to track down a
student’s teachers for assignments,
which can be considerable if the tutor
does not live or work near their
students’ schools.

“The expectations of
homebound tutors are unclear and the
level of cooperation that you will
receive from teachers is uncertain,”
Dittman said.

o

to March 1.

  W£i.[ll to bettorite 21 rloctor.“

eality

For more informatiorz, visit www.jh»o.edufpos.tbao or eat!
41 6-5.1 B-7748.

 dorm have the
,_ required coiirses for
. medical school,”

The Jolrms Hopkins F"o.st-Bac:calaur’eato Premedical Program
prepares college graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the best medical schools: by giving them the

personal attention, the oecessary science and math courses.
and one-to-one acacleniic advising.

if you or someone you know wants to pursue a career as a
doctor, apply during the application period of September 1,

JOHS    Om

s

Post-Basr:aI aure.acle
Preraeldical Program

7‘

1.

Jr

MG‘lDAY,FEBRUARY7,ZX5

SDO

 

THERING-TUM PHI 0 3

THIS WEEK

WEI}ESDAY, FEB.9
-Men’s Basketball vs. E&H; 7:00

FRIDAY, F$.11
IRiding at RMWC/LC; TBA

SATURDAY, FEB.12

.Wrestling at Baptist Bible; 12:00
-Women’s Basketball vs. Hollins;
2:00

-Men’s Backetball at EMU; 7:00

SPORTS BRIEFS

Trackcomperesatvmrvwmer
Re|aVS(2/5)

The Washington and Lee track and
ﬁeld teams were in action at the
Virginia Military Institute (VMI)
Winter Relays on Saturday afternoon.
The Generals competed against
Division I and III competition and had
10 first place finishes.

WreeﬂingCompetnsatW&L
QUa¢*‘an9U|af(25)

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team went 1-2 at the W&L
Quadrangular on Saturday afternoon.
They defeated Albright College, 46-6,
but lost to Centennial Conference-
rival Johns Hopkins, 27-19, and
Limestone, 22-19.

Men’sTennis FallstoFun'nan,7-0
(25)

p The Washington and Lee men’s tennis
team opened its spring season with a
7-0 loss to Division I Furrnan on
Saturday afternoon in Greenville, S.C.

 

Courtesy Sports Information

Wornen’s Basketball Fallsto
RMWC,69-59(2/5)

Sophomore guard Annie Johnson
scored a career-high 32 points to lift
Randolph-Macon W0man’s College to
a 69-59 win over Washington and Lee
in ODAC women’s basketball action
on Saturday afternoon.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
. Kuitahg Specialty 5'10!’

273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472

540-348-5220 - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits. needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Intemet accessibility made easy.

Calforworkshop&dassinformation.

Halfway between lexington and Staunton
07: I-81 / I-64 at ext‘! 205, Ranhina 4miles west on
Route  Raphine Road. Located (ma WOVHWS
fam that oﬁers "U-PICA" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

'llies - ‘Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00

Mens’ basketball comes out strong

BvBrvanGa|es

STAFFWHTE?

The men’s basketball team played
possibly their best opening half of the year
in their game against Hampton-Sydney on
Saturday, February 5th. Unfortunately,
they were unable to keep it up in the
second half, falling to H-SC 81-75.. g

The Generals sprinted into the
locker room with a 46-37 lead, led by
sophomore point guard Chris Halkitis.
Halkitis was unstoppable early in the
game, hitting his first ﬁve shots, including
four three—pointers. The Generals as a
team shot well in the half, hitting over

62%of their shots from the ﬁeld.

The second half started off with a
hook shot by freshman forward Femi
Kusimo, extending the lead to 11 points.
The game quickly became close again,
though, after a 14-2 run by the Tigers.
After numerous lead changes, the game
was tied by freshman John Mumper’s
jumper with seven rriinutes to play. That

~was as close as the Generals would get

for the rest of the game, as the Tigers soon

took the lead and held on for the rest of
the game. In the second half, The Generals
shot poorly from the free throw line (7-
15, 46%), while Hampton—Sydney’s
scorers turned it on, shooting 58%. They
were led by freshman Drew Prehmus, who
shot 6 of 10 in the game, with 18 points
and 4 assists. Prehmus struggled in the
first half, scoring only three points, and,
in his post-game interview, credited
Kusimo’s tough defense for the slow start.

Strong performances from the
Generals were also provided by senior
Mike Stuart (11 points, 3 assists) and
freshman Greg Bienemann (15 points).
The Generals showed improvement from
their last game against Hampton-Sydney,
which they lost 85-54. Hampton-Sydney,
a perennial ODAC powerhouse, has won
the last 16 meetings between the two
teams.

W&L’s last home game will be
Wednesday, February 9th, against Emory
& Henry. They will finish up their season
at Eastern Mennonite (Saturday, February
12th) and at Guilford (Tuesday, February
15th).

Sahar Kamali / Staff Photographer

FElVIKUSIVll'l1-HOWSl.PALAYUPASTKiERDE=ENDERSLOOKON.

Hunsinger brings
competitive drive to court

ByKwIynKrd
STAFFWHTB? L

With high ﬂying post moves,
soaiiiig mboundsiand 'n.nnnaatng‘§n¢t
blocking, center Jessica Hunsinger is an
essential contributor to the success of
the women’s basketball team and is on
the way tomaking a name for herself
in college basketball. On the season,
Hunsinger is the team leader in
rebounding, averaging 8.6 pulls a game.
She also drops in an average of 12.3
points. Her consistency is evidenced
by her high shooting percentage which
is often around ﬁfty percent. In addition
to the stats that show up on paper,
Hunsinger also provides the intangibles.
Her six foot height intimidates opposing
players and closes down the center. She
enjoys defense because “blocking
people is really fun.” Last season,
Hunsinger was second all—time at W&L,
recording 51 single—season blocks.

Jessica Hunsinger grew up in
Mayer, Arizona. She began to play the
game of basketball in sixth grade. “I was
largely motivated by family," said
Hunsinger, “my dad had been trying to
make me a super star athlete of any kind

. since I was kid. I have always been
pretty tall and so basketball seemed like
a natural choice.”

At Orrne High School, Hunsinger
starred in both volleyball and
basketball. In her senior year, she was
named MVP of both teams, but chose
to pursue basketball in college. She
explained, “I prefer a game in which
you have directcontact with your
opponents.” W&L was her choice
because of a strong academic reputation
and because it allowed her to get out of
the desert.

Huiisingefs strengths on the

team are her competitiveness and her

. willingness to work hard. She has been

competitive since the very beginning of
her basketball career. “I was taller then
most of the boys in elementary and
middle school and so it was always fun
to beat them.” Her aggressive nature
was most evident this year when she got
an intentional foul for holding onto an
opponent’s leg. “At the moment I didn’t
care and just didn’t want to lose,” she
explained. Weaknesses include poor
free throw shooting and predictability
in the post. Her offensive output more
than makes up for these. “My favorite
post move includes a head fake, one
dribble middle, spin move, lay-up. I
don’t know if there is a name for it and
it is a work in progress for me but I
ﬁnally pulled it out in a game and was
very excit ” said Hunsinger.

I Hunsinger attributes her success
to many factors. “My greatest
inspiration or mentor is my dad. I don’t
think he was ever a. super athlete but
[he} has also taught me to work hard
which has proven very useful on the
basketballlcourt,” she said. Also, the
captains of the team, Bethany Dannelly
and Louisa Feve, are a source of
motivation to Hunsinger: “Their work
ethic and drive to win is inspirational,
which has made me a more dedicated
athlete.” She also thanks her coaches

_ for their skill and patience.

Besides basketball, Hunsinger is
involved in many other aspects of
campus life. She is a psychology major
who plans to pursue a career in social
services ﬁeld after college. She is the
Social and Support Services Contact for
the Nabors Service League. Hunsinger» A
is a member of Chi Omega. She ‘
volunteers at the Department of Social
Services and helps out at the preschool
of Central Elementary.

 

_ “I was taller then most of
the boys in elementary and
middle school and so it was
always fun to beat them. ”

-«wsical-I.I1s'hgeI'

Caley offers musings

ByCdeyAnderson

CPl\K]\JSE3lTU3

New York Mets-

The Mets apparently do their
shopping these days at the Discount
Superstar Warehouse. The only quality
young blood they’ve added has been
Carlos Beltran, who will doubtless be a
force. But on the other hand, they’ve
already signed Pedro Martinez, who I’d
wager (if I didn’t have that injunction
against breaking the laws of the Great
Commonwealth of Virginia) will not last
another four years without his arm falling
from the rest of his body. And they already
employ/are targeting Galarraga,
Mientkiewicz, Glavine, and Piazza?
Discount Superstar Warehouse. The Mets
should beware, lest they end up in salary
cap hell like the 49ers.

NBA-

When I was a kid, I had to pick a
favorite hockey and basketball team, since
San Diego hasn’t had basketball or hockey
since 1984. I picked the Tampa Bay
Lightning for hockey, since lightning was
kind of like the lightning of the Chargers.
For the NBA, I picked the Seattle Sonics,
because they had the most green in their
team uniforms, and I was way into green
when I was a kid. Last year, the Lightning
were NHL champions, and I am going to
boldly predict the Sonics will likewise
make my non-San Diego championship
dreams come true this year. They have an

amazing amount of depth- Ray Allen and
Rashard Lewis are starters, and Vladimir
Radmanovic and Luke Ridnour actually
spend a lot of time ON THE BENCH,
when both of those players would likely
be full starters for, say, the Clippers (who
actually have risen to be just mediocre this
year, instead of terrible). They’ll have a
hard time becoming a dynasty, though, the
Phoenix Suns and the Miami Heat nip at
their heels even now.

NHL-

They’ve got the National part down,
and they’ve also got the League part down,
now all they need 'is the hockey.
Negotiations are as futile as they were
between the North and South in the
American Civil War/War of Northern
Aggression/War of the Southern
Rebellion/whatever. Seriously.

The League and the Players’
Association would be shooting at each
other right now if they-were countries- they
just cannot agree on the fundamentals for
the way the league should be set up.

The owners have a legitimate

-complaint (i.e., that they can’t make

money the way the league is presently set
up), but their solution is too idealistic, and
the players’ counter-solution doesn’t ﬁx
the problem at all. It’s difﬁcult to see any
professional hockey this year, or even next
year.

On the plus side, that wouldiallow
the Tampa Bay Lightning to boast of their
three-year reign as NHL Champions.

Track takes nine D—III Titles

BySa'a1Bloom

SEN%SPCHl'SVVFITE?

Sophomore Blair Haws and Senior
Steve Chambers led their respective track
teams in scoring this weekend at the
Virginia Military Institute Winter Relays.
Teams ranged from Division I to Division
III. The Generals claimed 9 Division III
first place finishes.

Chambers won the 3000 meters,
becoming the only individual Washington
and Lee athlete to win an event in overall
competition at the meet. Teammate senior
Norman Senior led the team in scoring with
his DIH first place ﬁnish in the 400 meters.

In the field events, senior Chris
Walker claimed the Division IH title in
the shot put and sophomore Walker
Duncan ﬁnished first in the 35lb weight
throw.

“Everyone’s goal from meet to meet
was to better their performance from the
week before,” said Walker. “We just
wanted to make a statement to the other
ODAC teams.”

Jumper Mike Stanton was also the
2"“ DIII ﬁnisher in his first ever high jump
attempt.

Haws claimed the DIH 800 meter
and one mile run, setting the pace for the
women’s team. Overall, she placed a
competitive 2"‘ in the 800 meters and 4"‘
in the mile. Sophomore Sara
Behmerwohld followed suite, finishing
first in the 55—meter hurdles and claimed
a close second in the 400m.

Behmerwohld teamed up with Kim
Gunst, Huntley Rodes, and Casey Sharpe
to win the overall title in the 4 by 400
meter relay.

Freshman jumper, Lil Brandler won
the pole vault and placed 2"“ in the high
jump. “Lil Brandler is doing some really
wonderful stuff, out there setting school
records,” said senior teammate Chris
Walker.

After the meet, Walker went on to
say: “For a small team, W&L track works
like none other. I have a feeling that our
quality throughout the roster this year will
turn some heads at ODACs.”

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for
group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or www.ststravel.com.

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

 

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&|ife

 

MGDAY, FEBRUARY 7, K15

Treat your sweetie to a

night out in the big city  

ByKa1|eSuI|e&NalhmWehen,3I.s
TheW&LLawN9NsstdlwrhIs

In light of Valentine’s Day, we
thought we would run this piece, which
appeared in the January 24 edition of
The W&L Law News. Good luck
planning a romantic date this year.

Date night in Roanoke starts
with a late afternoon drive on
Highway 11. You head south until you
see Foamhenge. You turn right into
the parking area, get out of your car
and walk up the hill. You take some
photos because the place is that cool.

You tell your date that it’s the only
exact replica of Stonehenge in this
nation and your date says something
about Carhenge.

You don’t have enough time to
take 11 all the way to Roanoke, so you
get onto 81 and before you know it
you’re at the Valley View multiplex.

You watch The Life Aquatic and are
not terribly impressed.

However, you did really like a

» couple scenes. Especially amusing to

you was the scene with Bill Murray
raging against the pirates with The
Stooges in the background.
Your date and you are very
hungry and want to check out a
restaurant that claims to be the old and
finest Italian restaurant in Roanoke.
The place is called Luigi’s and you
are more than a little skeptical.
Luigi’s is very unpretentious. It has
a nice little bar and it is clear that
some of the restaurant has not been
there since the place opened.
You see- that the menu has a
short anecdote, entitled “The Story of
Luigi’s.” Apparently, Lou was a

eventually made it to Roanoke.

g doesn’t cost you very much and you

young marine stopping in New York
City back in 1945. Lou had to catch
a train back to New England and was
pressed for time.

Fortunately, Lou’s friend knew
a cook at some Italian restaurant.
They got to eat in the employee’s
room where Lou met the “boss” and
received a copy of the “boss’s”
cookbook. The story doesn’t explain
how, but Lou and the cookbook

It is hard to make a decision,
but you decide on the Veal, Scallops
and Shrimp and your date orders the
Rigatoni and Meatballs. Your food
arrives and it is adequate at worst.
Your salas is pretty mediocre, but the
crab-stuffed mushroom appetizer is
pretty good. You like your entrée, but
wish you would have ordered
something other than a dish with a
rather tame Marsala mushroom sauce.

Your date isn’t impressed with
the Rigatoni but thinks the Meatballs
are really good. You are pleased at
this point, but are really happy when
your date and you decide to share a
very good Tiramisu. The meal

realize you will not be hungry again
until the next morning.

After the meal, your date wants
to go to the Barnes and Noble. You’re
not thrilled with the idea, but you
can’t think of anything better to
suggest. The place is crawling with
obnoxious teenagers, but the two of
you browse some books and
magazines for an hour.

You’re not too enthused about
going back to Lexington, but the day

has to endueventually.

ayvasnannuie
NW\W.?\GB]'|'O'-I

Last Thursday night over a thousand
people went to see The Roots play a
concert sponsored by the General
Activities Board.

Tickets for the concert were sold for
ten dollars in the Commons last week, but
those that waited until the last minute for
tickets could also buy them at the door.

The total cost of bringing The Roots
to Lexington was just over 32,000 dollars,
but many students said that the cost was
well worth the cost.

GAB chose The Roots because
students showed a heavy interest in a hip
hop band in a poll taken last fall. “We
knew there was interest in a hip hop band
and it worked out that we could get The
Roots,“ said GAB Vice President of
Operations Meredith Donegan.

Most students that went called the
concert very successful. Jordan Anderson,

Feb. 14 makes me ill

Despite noble origins, Valentine’s Day the worst holiday

Byemaysuwaus

AFlTS&L|lEEDlTCF

February 14”‘. All around the
world, women anxiously await for the
dozen of red roses that some nincompoop
will send them. Children beg their parents
for the Scooby-Doo cards that they will give
their classmates. Godiva and Russell Stover
make an insane amount of money selling
hideous shiny red boxes containing a massive
amount of calories. And I can’t stand it.

Yes, I am the killer of fun and good
times. All the sappiness and romance
makes me sick to my stomach. There’s
nothing worse than the Valentine’s Day
displays at Wal—Mart. Have you seen the
tie—dyed, phosphorescent Teddy Bears in
that egregious bin? Honestly, who in their
right mind would buy them?

In elementary school, I remember
bringing a shoebox to class on the 13”‘
and we’d spend hours decorating it. The
teacher would cut a hole in the top, and it
would be our own Valentine’s mailbox.

Mine was terrible. I think it stems
from the fact that I have absolutely no artistic
genes whatsoever. I took an art class in high
school for an elective, and the teacher gave
me an Abecause she felt sorry for me. I

But what exacerbated the whole
situation was that everyone had to get a
Valentine. Otherwise, it just wouldn’t be
fair. And we all know that elementary
school is about making everyone happy.
It was quite difﬁcult to write on my Barbie
cards the words “Love, Emily” when I
loathed the card’s recipient. And
attaching that miniature Reese’s cup? It
was like sticking a knife through my heart.

Thank God for middle school and
the fact that we were too cool for
Valentines. But, oh wait, we had “Val-o-
grams” from the Student Council. For a
mere 50 cents, you could buy a pre-
decorated pink sheet of paper,
meticulously write a message to your
favorite boy from our brother school, and
it would be delivered to him. Or, you
could send it to your friends.

Crayola markers, pink sheets of
paper, and more candy? I don’t think so.
But for some reason, I actually enjoyed

But I still don’t understand why guys give their
girlfriends giant boxes of chocolate and then tell
us “it’s going to our thighs.”

seeing them taped to my locker.

High school had to be the worst.
The 14"‘ was the day I came to school with
an entire box of Claritin. The roses started
coming by about 9am, and they didn’t
stop coming until school let out at 3. The
receptionist’s desk was so crowded that
the teachers set up a table in the hallway
for all the damn ﬂowers. Little white and
red bears with the embroidered words “Be
Mine” accompanied an overpriced vase
of wilting roses.

Screams of delight could be heard
up and down the hallway when girls
realized that their boyfriends actually
remembered the blessed occasion. Of
course they weren’t going to forget the
14"‘. High school boys? Never.

IwasinNewYorkforthe 14* lastyear.
Ithink the sappiness worsens as you get older.
My friends and I made the mistake of going
into Tiffany’s on the 15"‘. Oops. The newly-
engaged couples were everywhere.

‘ They were literally running over
people to get to the elevator that would
take them to the 4”‘ (or is it the 3”?) ﬂoor
to look at engagement rings. Barfaroonie.
Wouldn’t you know that their diamond
specialists offer a “How to choose the
perfect diamond” workshop on the 12"‘
and 13”‘. Note to self: don’t make the
same mistake this year.

I guess I don’t really hate
Valentine’s Day. It gives me some laughs.

A couple of years back, my dad sent my
mom ﬂowers for the first time ever. My
mom looked at my dad and said, “Are you
having an affair or something?” I was in
stitches.

And it does have a somewhat noble
beginning. Around 270, when Claudius
was emperor of Rome, he banned marriage
because he believed it made for weak
soldiers. Valentine, a Bishop, would
secretly marry young couples and was
arrested when Claudius found out about it.

As the story goes, Valentine was in
jail awaiting his execution when his jailor,
Asterius, asked him to heal his blind
daughter. Valentine miraculously did, and
before he was executed on the day that
would be February 14"‘, he sent a letter to
the girl saying “From your Valentine.”

Valentine became a.Patron Saint,
and a festival was named in his honor.
Young Roman men would send “greetings
of affection” to women they loved, and the
holiday stuck. One of the earliest
Valentine’s Day cards was sent from
Charles, Duke of Orleans, to his wife while
he was imprisoned in the Tower of London.

But I still don’t understand why

guys give their girlfriends giant boxes of _

chocolate and then tell us it’s “going to
our thighs.” And I guess I never will.
After all, nothing is less romantic than

receiving an Atkins-approved chocolate

bar.

#1 Sllfillﬂ Break Vacations

cancun. lamalca. Acapulco, Bahamas. 8. normal
Bast Panlos. Bast Ilotols. lost Prleosl
Iiroun Illscounts. organizers Travel rm!
snaco Is Ilmltotll Book low a. save!
1-800-2341001 mmondlosssummonourscom

a sophomore, couldn’t help but dance all
night. “It was a high energy non stop
party-”

The Roots are notorious for
focusing on instrumentation in the
concerts. It was no different Thursday
night. There were many guitar and drum
solos throughout the concert.

The band was created in
Philadelphia when the current drummer,
?uestlove (Ahrnir Khalib Thompson) met
the current lead rapper, Black Thought
(Tariq Trotter). They recreated classic hip
hop with drums and the fresh voice of
Tariq and played on the sidewalk and small
gigs. Along the way they met up with the
rest of their current band members
including a bassist.

Since then The Roots have had an
enormous cult following, but have never
quite received major notoriety. Just last
year the band broke from its record label
MCA and created their own label,
Okayplayer. Early this year they released

A week
and a half
a g 0 some
p h o t o g r a p h s
from this past
H a 1 1 o w e e n
surfaced in
various media
outlets, some
national. The
pictures showed
a handful of
cadets dressed in the following
costumes: Nazis, “male ballerinas” (for
lack of a better term), amorous sailors,
and a “starving African” in a loin cloth.
It goes without saying that the Nazi
uniform was inappropriate. Not that I
would attempt to justify the costume,
but it is. simply poking fun at the fact
that our winter uniform makes us look
like the SS (black shirt, black tie, grey
pants, grey hat). Though obviously
improper and an instance of poor
judgment, this does not mean that VMI
cadets are Nazi sympathizers.

The other costumes are far less
offensive,iif at all, when taken in the
proper context. The cadets in question
were not in public view and were not
aware that the general public would
have access to photographs of the
event. Once again, not to justify, but
to explain. Let's examine the “male
ballerinas.” We go to a school of more
than 1300 young men who wear
uniforms every single day; if you don’t
think that, in this context, two guys
wearing tou-tou’s, heavy make-up, and
baby-doll T—shirts which say “I (heart)
a man in uniform,” is funny then you
need to lighten up. The same goes for
the sailors, one of whom had a bull’s
eye on his rump. It was a light—hearted
joke intended to evoke the homosexual
sailor stereotype. Yet again, this does
not mean that VMI cadets are
homophobic or have some deep-
seeded hatred for homosexuals; a
couple of guys made a joke in the
presence of those who understood said
joke.

The final example is the
“starving African” in a loin cloth.

JonathanProctor

THE GUY NEXT DOOR

 

photo courtesy of mtv.oom

?uesllave,B|ackThought mdﬂ1erestofﬂ1eRootsplayedtoasoHomauMdinﬂ1ePavilbnmThursdaynight

The Roots rock the Pavilion

their newest DVD/CD set of a 2004
concert in Manhattan. The band is known
for having some of the most lively concerts
in the business.

Towards the end of the concert the
band started a chant yelling “Eagles,
Eagles, Eagles.” Many of the concert
attendees joined in, while a few others
started a Patriots chant. Another highlight
of the night for many was going crowd
surﬁng. One freshman fell and landed on
his elbow. But no one was seriously
injured.

Some of the concert goers came
from other schools to enjoy the concert.
There was a large group of students from
James Madison and Hollins. There was
also a large Lexican population at the
concert.

Donegan was pleased with the
final result. “I have heard very
enthusiastic responses from other
students," she said. “In my opinion, it
was very successful”

Guy Next Door defends
Virginia Military Institute

Question: any “South Park” fans out there?
If so, did you appreciate the humor of the
“Staryin’ Marvin” episode? Same thing.
This was not an example of “us dumb
rednecks hatin’ colored folk.” The cadet
in question was merely dressing up in the
same manner as a TV character. I cannot
emphasize this enough: I am not justifying
these actions, merely trying to put them in
their proper context.

The perception of many, with
regards to VMI, is this: we are a bunch of
arrogant, rude, racist, homophobic,
warmongers who attend an archaic,
outdated institution which condones said
behavior.

The reality: in my three-plus years
as a cadet I have met some of the most
honorable, driven, generous, pensif,

passionate, intelligent, funny, loyal, and

creative people that I’ve ever come in
contact with. Do cadets make mistakes?
Of course. Do our mistakes gain an
inordinate amount of attention? Yes. But
if one is looking for inappropriate
Halloween costumes then one would be
wise to visit Generic State College, U.S.A.
There one would find examples young
ladies wearing barely more than a “loin
cloth” and men dressed as feminine
hygiene products. . .all in view of the local
public. Are these offensive costumes the
norm? Of course not, but I have yet to see
“Good Morning America” do a segment
on the “atrocities" of Halloween at JMU.

Here’s the rub: before one passes
judgment on what goes on in VMI’s
strange reality he should remember the fact
that we have proudly served Virginia and
America since 1839 and have produced:
the man who rebuilt Europe after WWH,
more CEOs in the state of Virginia than
any other school, one of two American
modern day martyrs as recognized by the
Episcopal church (the other being Martin
Luther King, Jr.), and, perhaps most
importantly, innumerable men of honor.
If this article seems condescending or
arrogant then please accept my apologies
for that was not my intent; however, when
my Institute comes under attack I carmot
sit by idly. As fellow men and women of
honor, you can undoubtedly understand
my position.

 

MGDAY, FEBRUARY 7,215

“Reporting is seldom taught... it’s an attitude —
‘you have some information, I want it, and I deserve it’...

Believe what you are doing is more important than what the person
you ’re interviewing is doing. You are bringing the world information.

Your work is more important than almost any issue in the world.”
— TOMWOLFE‘l1praseonferenceatW&LonSanxday,Februa'y5,aXJ5

THERING-TUMPHI 05

Srats work for good

Sororities eﬂective in volunteering for a good cause

BySoniaSiuandTyel-laeberle
CAlVPlJS(1ITREPCHC}-IARS

Rush week 2005 started off on a
charitable note with the tradition of
Philanthropy Night. Girls who once went
through the rush process themselves look
back on this night with a twinge of
remorse, thinking back to that paint that
they spilled and the dreaded memories of
creativity that would not fabricate. In the
end, enduring this high-stress environment
was well worth it because the evening
beneﬁted many commendable causes.

CASA (Court Appointed Special,

Advocates), Girl Scouts of America, Links
to Literacy, the Mayﬂower, and Parkland
Hospital were among those organizations
that beneﬁted from this rush evening.
Theta’s national philanthropy is
CASA, which works toward pairing court
advocate— mentors with children who have
endured hardships within their families.
These children must often move around,
so Theta came up with the creative idea
of having potential new members decorate
picture frames for the children so that they
could frame a picture of them and their
advocate, or any other person important
to the child. Erin Rathbone, a senior Theta
who coordinated the evening’s activities
believed “that the activity was a success
and that the girls enjoyed it, especially
because it was a new and original idea.”
Every year, Girl Scouts raise money
by selling cookies. Kappa Delta wanted
to help its national philanthropy, Girl
Scouts of America, in this endeavor. KDs
had rushees decorate and put together

personalized cookie selling kits filled with
water bottles, folders, clipboards, and
bags. KD delivered these kits to girls in
troops around the county, and has followed
up through bi—monthly brownie group
meetings that the chapter participates in.
Beth Lidinsky, KD’s Philanthropy Chair,
was “excited to do this project because
[KD has] recently become more involved
locally with the Girl Scouts.”

Pi Beta Phi’s Philanthropy Night
was “an extremely successful step in
promoting literacy in an elementary school
system,” according to Lauren Kampf, Pi
Phi’s Philanthropy Chair. At the house,
girls painted colorful, fun book bags for
students attending an elementary school
in Maryland in order to encourage a higher
standard of literacy in their school system.
Pi Phi preceded this year’s gift of book
bags by collecting and donating books to
their national philanthropy “Links to
Literacy,” as well as its Canadian
equivalent “Arrows in the Arctic.”

“Flowers for the Mayﬂower” was
Chi Omega’s theme for the night.
Prospective new members spent their time
at the house painting clay ﬂower pots for
the residents of the Mayﬂower, a home for

the elderly located in Lexington. Chi
Omega plans on following up these
projects this spring using them in a new
member activity, when new members will
plant ﬂowers into the pots and present
them to the residents at the Mayﬂower.
Dianne Winter, Chi Omega’s Community
Service Chair noted that the chapter was
“really excited about how the projects
turned out,” since it was the first time that
this house had worked on such a project
for Philanthropy Night.

Laura Hombuckle, Kappa Kappa
Gamma’s Philanthropy Night Chair
considered its project to be “very special
for [the house] because it is for a fellow
Kappa.” Those rushing decorated baby t-
shirts to be sent to underprivileged or
abandoned babies in Parkland Hospital of
Dallas, Texas. Kappa is currently also
planning many other events to benefit
many other philanthropies.

Congratulations to the five
sororities on this campus for making
community service an integral part of rush.
The philanthropies that continue to beneﬁt
from your outstanding work are
appreciative of your efforts.

$$$Easy Money $$$

I will pay $40 for your phone book
Call Lee Ramsey toll free
1-866-577-7237

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 29 — July 30, 2005

Are you looking for a way to spend an exciting July in
Lexington while positively affecting high school students
and getting paid?  

Working as a Summer Scholars Counselor creates for you
that opportunity by allowing you to work with approximately
120 rising high school seniors for four weeks in July.

We are looking for responsible and friendly students who
work well with their peers, will organize extracurricular
activities for the participants and offer appropriate guidance
and insight to scholars about college life.

Applications can be acquired in the Summer Scholars Office
located in the Hill House, 218 W. Washington Street.
For more information about the position contact Dr. Mimi
Elrod at 458-8727.  
The deadline for turning in applications is February 22, 2005.

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call momy
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with Campusﬁundraiser.
Contact CampusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

  

   

  as Tm ‘for em

apps. wﬁvmgtmazz; mvmnaarsnﬁml


~&uxaqawuae1umeer:asmwaas,21mm
-«auaunsimsaniviv marsa—W%,eik-GRM-11AM
-—cmi4atco«uwrym:_3.1ma4am
~oaaysoup, &a¢,&nunsu~11m-tap»

(}t=dar:rBsea%u 24HouuaI)ay,ScvcndaysaIvwk!

Located at
  LEEm'rnAvm.i*LA.zA
:«8':1&x~6i,Extr195,3516xom'm.uuwr,lmce'roN,va
Grbntfaaui-aagrsataolloctioacf
An§qun?a:|ai€u'u&'ﬂav“¥_'au$i

 

 

 

IIMI‘DAY,EFIJARY7,ZI5

 

STAFF EDITORIAL
Alums should speak

Washington and Lee is a
culture steeped in tradition. We
at the Phi love tradition and, in
most cases, want this school to
respect them. Recently,
however, the school made a
break in tradition that The Ring-
tum Phi applauds. Asking Tom
Wolfe to act as commencement
speaker is an important step for
the school.

This University has
graduated several famous and
accomplished alumni. To
include these alumni in the
graduation festivities serves
several purposes.

Tom Wolfe speaking at
commencement will certainly
bring more press, and more
attention, to campus that day.
Washington and Lee can
certainly use more positive press
in order to boost name
recognition.

To know that someone as
accomplished as Tom Wolfe
values the senior class’s
accomplishments enough to act
as commencement speaker is
also a huge compliment to the
graduates.

Normally, the President
of the University acts as the
commencement speaker. Though
President Burish is an eloquent
man, we believe that
incorporating more public
ﬁgures into this celebration will
bring nothing but positive press
to the school and a special honor
to the graduates.

In future years, the Phi
would like to see this new trend
continue. Possible
commencement speakers
include: Senator John Warner,
Roger Mudd and former
Chairman of Time Inc., Reginald
K. Brack, Jr.

And, of course, we
would love to see Tom Wolfe
back again next year.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions editor Caley Anderson gives
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

G 

But is it just me, or do you think it
would be hard for a non-W&L person
to understand this book?

Osocial Security

No matter who’s in ofﬁce in the next
forty years, I have a sneaking
suspicion that I’m deﬁnitely not going
to get back the money I’m putting in.

0 Ice

See, in California, we have this
ingenious celestial body called the
sun, which actually prevents ice from
enveloping whole cars.

0 The ceiling

zzba-dum chhhhhzz Ups and downs,
ladies and gentlemen. I’ll be here all
week, don’t forget to tip your waitress.

0OldCo-OpIBooksl1ore

So...is it just going to sit there or
what? I mean, it seems like a little bit
of a waste.

O0-School’s Art Display

Some interesting:.sti;$ff/hafigi on the
walls of the C-School these day The
Persephone display is crazy, but it’
excellent.

0 Feb. Break \
Before you start to call for my head on
a platter, think about this— wouldn’t
you much rather have a tliree—week
long Winter Break? Or maybe a two-
week long Spring Break? It just
seems sad to have lots of little breaks.

Research on stem cells must

be expanded for the public good  

ByBedtyLeMo'ne

TI-ELEBVLVEW

In President Bush’s State of the
Union Address last Wednesday night, he
stated, “I will work with Congress to
ensure that human embryos are not created
for experimentation or grown for body
parts and that human life is never bought
or sold as a commodity.” Indeed, since he
has held the ofﬁce of the presidency, Bush
has pushed to outlaw embryonic stem cell
research, and has succeeded as far as
limiting federal funding for this research
to stem cell lines existing prior to August
9, 2001. This is far from the compromise
the President painted it as.

At the time the decision was made,
the Health and Human Services
Department reported that more than 70 cell
lines were available. Yet, the number of
existing stem cells that were actually
available for distribution proved to be
much lower than the predicted number.
Now, only approximately 15 of these cells
remain available for researchers in the
United States who are doing federally
fimded research, according to the National
Institutes of Health as of March 2004.
However, other sources claim that the
actual number is even lower than the NIH
states. In addition, these cells are often
contaminated, as evident in a report in the
February issue of Nature Medicine, which
stated that researchers from the University
of California at San Diego and the Salk
Institute have found a contaminant in one
of the federally approved human
embryonic stem-cell lines. This study
provides the first concrete evidence that
at least one important stem-cell line, and
potentially all of the govemment-approved
ones, is unsuitable for use in human tests.

Stem cell research first began in
1998 when scientist Dr. James A.
Thomson, a biologist at the University of

‘ Wisconsin, Madison, reported that he had

isolated human embryonic cells. Since
then, this research has produced
substantial discoveries regarding life-
tlireatening diseases and also promises
future life-saving advances. This research
may be used for the transplantation of vital
organs, expansion of cancer research,
exploration of genetic defects at birth,

fertilization of identical twins, creation of
more effective contraceptives,
augmentation of the chances of pregnancy,
and information concerning the causes of
miscarriage.

Opponents of stem cell research
have often argued that the use of
embryonic stem ceHs deprives the life of
an embryo that would have otherwise had
the chance to live. However, with the
exception of therapeutic cloning, the
embryonic stem cells used in this research
are derived from fertility clinics where
they would have been discarded, rather
than given a life. The Stem Cell Research
Foundation affirms that following the
termination of a pregnancy, some women
donate the fetal material, which. would
otherwise be disposed of, to research. In
addition, frozen embryos that were created
by fertility clinics and are no longer needed
by the couple are another source of
pluripotent stem cells. Since these cells
would simply have been disposed of
anyway, why not use them for life-saving,
beneﬁcial research?

Opponents also argue that adult
stem cells are just as adequate as
embryonic stem cells. Though adult and
embryonic stem cells have many
similarities, human embryonic stem cells
have several key advantages over adult
stem cells. Stem cells derived from an
embryo can be reproduced in mass
quantities, allowing for better research and
potential use in transplants. These stem
cells are also pluripotent, meaning that
they can develop into any of the 200 to
220 different known cell types in the
human body. Adult stem cells are not
capable of this.

‘ There are many proponents of stem
cell research, including children suffering
from juvenile diabetes, such as eleven-year
old Tessa Wick. Wick does not understand
how opponents of embryonic stem cell
research can choose “a bunch of cells”
over her. Some of the most prominent
advocates of stem cell research include
Senator Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Michael
J. Fox, and Christopher Reeves, who
unfortunately died last October.

The President should stop ignoring
good science to the detriment of the health
of millions of Americans. Stem cell
research must go forward.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR
ASST. CIRCULATION DIRECTORS

COPY EDITORS

ﬂ7eFhg-timHrispLbistiedMoridaysdiii‘gtheuidagIat1ates<:mdyear
atWash’ngtrx1aridLeeUriveisity,Lex'ngton,Wg‘1ia.
ﬂieF5'igaJnH1'san\arberd1TeRbk‘aﬁa'sBoam,bmisdtierwbei‘depauat
TheFﬁ1g-n.mPh'vveIoomesal
Alstbnissior:smi.ustbeemaiedtopt'i@vv1u.eduorir11heUriveisityCentermal3oxby5p.m.
Fridaytbappearintiieioloiwingvveeksecitiori.
77ieRiigamHireseNesttierignmedtsturissiaisbrouitei1tar1d lengh.
Letteisaridodunrisdonotrieoessaﬁiyrefedtheophimd TheFw'ig41mPhEdtoriaIBoard.
Adverlisingdoesnctneﬂecttheopinionsof TheFi‘hg-amPh'oriIsstaﬁ.
Th'sri9ArspaperobseNeswna1tooundefI1ﬁmsc£iJeIar1dd:soa'ily.

TheF&ig-timPI1'
-\ UrivetsityCom'norsFIoom341
 Lex'ngon,Vwg"I'a24450
- \ Teiephone:(54o)45a4oeo
\\ Fa>c(54o)45e4059
<  Eh'etp|1'@vw.i.edi
\ Stbsa1:>tiomate$40

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT

ROB RAIN

LEGGET KITCHIN
ELIZABETH ROBINSON
YINYAN Ll

ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

Rice on the rise,
Dean on the decline

Byshmewlson
TI-EPO.ITK?AI.LPDATE

Condoleezza Rice: the First
Week

Last week, Condoleezza Rice
jetted off on a whirlwind mission in
her new capacity as Secretary of State.
Her scheduled stops included a mixed
bag of countries including the United
Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy,
Luxembourg, Poland, Belgium,
'I\1rkey, Israel, and the West Bank. On
the agenda: repairing broken relations,
reaffirming existing ones, and forging
ahead with plans of peace.

Ambitious? Perhaps, but
difficult situations are nothing new for
Secretary Rice. Her dedicated and
honest service to President Bush during
his first administration is testimony to
her ability (memories of the 911
hearings quickly come to mind). If
there were ever any doubt, Rice’s
skilled responses to a frosty Barbara
Boxer last week prove that she’s able
to remain steady even under the most
withering attacks.

Such diplomatic prowess came

I in handy as she began her trip, which

included her first major policy speech
in Paris. With the intent of patching
together some sort of reconciliation
between hard line concepts of old and
new Europe, Rice’s remarks will
hopefully decrease hard feelings in the
long run.

Undoubtedly the most important
aspect of her trip was a renewed
emphasis on Middle East peace. First
stopping in Turkey was a wise choice,
at least signaling that the United States
does not remain upset after Turkey’s
refusal to assist during the Iraq war.
Turkey’s overall importance in
stabilizing the region will be critical in
the next decade.

Her arrival in Israel Sunday
precedes a new Israel-Palestine summit
before which she will have separate,
private meetings with both Israeli
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon
Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas.

If there’s anyone more qualified
to take up this challenge, it is
Condoleezza Rice. Whether she is able
to mediate an agreement that will usher
in a new Palestinian state and lasting
peace remains to be seen, but the
American public should wish her well
and be conﬁdent in her selection as
secretary of state.

Howard Dean, DNC
Commander-in-Chief? '

YEAAAAAAH! This may be
the new battle cry of the Democratic
National Committee if Howard Dean’s
latest political aspirations come to pass.
With elections for Chairman of the
party quickly approaching, it becomes
more and more evident, however
unlikely, that the position may be filled
by this formed Vermont governor. It
really brings two questions to mind.
First, what is the Democratic Party
thinking? Second, is there really no one
else? Actually, a third question burns
in the back of my mind. Where is the
Democratic Party headed (does hari-
kari seem like an appropriate
reference)?

Let’s take these questions point
by point. Number one. Dean hardly
seems like the kind of person to bring
about party cohesiveness, much less
one to sweep the polls on Election Day.
Remember that Dean built his
constituency on the most
disenfranchised of the Party, including
those whose stances were the farthest
left on the Iraq war. At the same time,
his political career was marked by
opposed Democratic positions (he
supported gun rights while at the same
time making gay unions legal).

Second, is there truly not a better
choice to lead the party? I would liken
Dean’s appointment as DNC head to
an enraged Zell Miller taking charge
of the GOP, fully complimented by
disparaging put downs and an
assortment of frightening glares.
Granted, I like Miller, but his presence
can often be taxing to the good people
in PR. The point here is whether the
Democrats could have found a more
digestible figurehead, perhaps the
deposed Senator Daschle or even Bill
Clinton?I ask again, where would the
Democratic Party be taken by Howard
Dean? It‘s interesting to try and
understand the underlying strategy
where a person who could only garner
third place in a race for president is the
top choice to take a party to national
victory. Sure, he’s energetic. Sure, he
gets people involved. And yes, he has
an awesome slogan. Will this be
enough to make up for a pa.ity’s general
lack of direction and leadership? While
the ultimate answer remains unknown,
watching Howard Dean lead the
Democratic Party would be almost as
fun as a head to head election contest
between him and George Bush.

Feb. break rules

Defending the Washington break

BySaaDuckworIh

FIERIJXXE

This last week solidified the
reasons why I am in love and much in
need of a February Break. Lots of
people complained, including myself,
that having to be back January 3“ was
horrible, but at least we have a fourth
of this dreadful little month off. Yes,
driving back to Lexington on January
1“ was about as much fun as slamming
my hand in a door, but it’s over with
and now we have an entire week to
recover from the last six. So here are a
few legitimate reasons for why I prefer
this week over a three—week Dec. break.

1) Holiday Break was short
enough that I was sad to leave my
family and friends from high school.
It will now be enjoyable to go back
home or go take a road trip to visit them
at school, instead of reliving reasons
why I was so glad to graduate from HS.

2) Rush week was like pulling a
Band—Aid off exceedingly slowly. Any
more “break” and I would have lost my
mind. There is no dark cloud of rush
hanging over this week, thus making it
the superior.

3) There is no fashionable way
to keep your nose warm. We’re a
campus that works awfully hard at

looking presentable, but the cold nose
thing gets me. It’s a catch 22 of
whether to give up and wrap a scarf
around your face, or a ski mask, or have
the Rudolph syndrome. I need a break
from this pet—peeve, and I don’t think
I’m alone.

4) It’s a good time to get the old
car ﬁxed. Mine was grumpy before
Friday, but now that it has a‘ giant dent
in the front bumper it really needs to
get a face lift. At least the lady who hit
my parked car is good enough to pay
for it, thus leaving me with some hope
for humanity, even in the winter.

5) Even though the Super Bowl
and Mardi Gras will already be over, it
never hurts to have some time off to
“celebrate” without having a midterm
the next day.

6) Frat Pledgeship. Enough said.

7) I’m ready to leave our little
campus, which has recently turned into
a hotbed for germs. Don’t cough on
your hand and then open the door with
the same hand. Sharing, in theory, is a
good thing, but I would rather you keep
your phlegm and viruses tolyourself. I
know you can get sick anywhere, but
is it so wrong to ask for a change of
venue?

88) An excuse to travel =
something to adore. Disneyworld at
21? I think yes.

 

 

NUDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 215

“If you want to work professionally, you have to

be able to drop the accent when it’s required.”

— QUOTE oFTHEWEEKl\ra'Ii1chiIderS.who’s|eariig aprojecttobachnzdAppa|achhil<idsto|oseIhe'I'accen1s.

THE RNG-TUM PHI 0 7

Male students bear responsibility for end

BycaieyAnde:son/

NKZXIFIATE'SNl.G\X§

If one believes the administration,
and indeed, most women at our University
(and I do), then sexual assault is a serious
problem on this campus. As men, I think
we tend to suffer from a sort of delusion
that sexual assault isn’t a “serious
problem” until it becomes epidemic.
There are some men on this campus, and I
hate to admit it, that probably wouldn’t
see a problem until women were forced
to stay in their dorms, apartments, and
houses out of fear.

But we should all admit it- even in

the campus situation we have now, most
women on this campus are at least
somewhat fearful when they go out to
parties, and they must have that little bit
of discomfort in the back of their minds
where men do not. With off—campus
proliferation, the danger of sexual assault
is more prevalent than ever, and though
most women shrug it off, this danger is
something that mustn’t be long tolerated
or ignored by anyone on this campus, least
of all us, the male students.

I think the disconcerting seriousness
of this problem is often camouﬂaged by
the somewhat limited deﬁnition that a few
of my male colleagues seem to place on
the term “sexual assault.” Unfortunately,

there is a lot that goes on besides out-and-
out rape. It is not uncommon at our
University for guys at parties to get women
drunk with the explicit purpose in mind
of blacking out their memories of the
night, and of getting them in bed. This
low—grade attempt at erosion of a woman’s
will is usually not twice thought of, but it
is‘ sexual assault, and though the legal
ramiﬁcations are murky, it is certainly not
in keeping with the standard of behavior
that we, as students here, ought to be
voluntarily ascribing to. This is not even
considering the use of date rape drugs and
other underhanded, dishonorable
practices.

But more important than the

methods used is the mindset which allows
such activity to take place. On this
campus, there continues to be a male social
ethic, and I’m not saying that all men here
buy into it, which silently permits, or even
encourages such activity. Some men
continue to use their pledgeship vows of
loyalty to fraternity and to fraternity

brothers as an excuse to cloak and defend

assaulters, and to stigmatize and harass
women with legitimate complaints. This
is indefensible; the fact that such
disgraceful treatment of one’s fellow
students regularly happens within a few
miles’ radius of Robert E. Lee’s burial
place never ceases to astonish me. Is this
what we are to present to the world as our

ing campus’ sexual assault

vision of what an “honorable gentleman”
is?

Sketchy, mutually-drunken hookups
are one thing, taking advantage of
someone is quite another. All guys should
know where this line is, and all guys
should make danmed sure not to cross it.
There must be no doubt in anyone’s mind
as to consent. Inthis time period, it’s the
woman’s job to make her preferences
clear, it’s the man’s job to make sure he
understands what she means. Protecting
sexual assaulters and attacking women
who come forward with allegations of
assault is not something that anyone here
is obliged to do by their frat vows or by
anything else. There really is no excuse.

Pro—life perspective

Dear Editor,

Two rather lengthy pieces about
abortion in last week’s Phi caught my
attention. I would like to address some of
the points made therein (in my own rather
lengthy piece, of course).

I begin with Ms. LeMoine’s piece,
in which she argues that determining when
life begins is a complex and multi-faceted
matter. ‘

I submit that it is not so at all: life
biologically begins at conception, the
point at which a sperm fertilizes an ovum
producing a genetically distinct human
individual. One may quibble about
whether this is a “fully developed” human
life (is a prepubescent child “fully
developed”?), and one may argue about
its dependence on the mother, but if the
natural processes of development
(including dependence on the mother)
remain uninterrupted, the zygote will
necessarily grow into a small, screaming
child — not a stick of celery.

The zygote is actual, as opposed to
potential, human life by the very fact that
its genetic make-up is both individually
distinct and entirely human.

Another argument Ms. LeMoine
makes concerns the wording of the first
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
which she takes to be the constitutional
definition of the beginning of life. The
purpose of the clause, however, is to deﬁne
“citizens of the United States,” who are a
subset of persons . ’

The speciﬁc subset of persons who
are citizens are “All persons born or
naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof.” Note,

 

 

'3 2.5

 

miss rear‘

x $1

. . :3

     

Standard  
. features institute:

L

rm?‘-.:*:§a starts =aal’?§ ea:.ié;:;ie-3.  -sat? 3-ttszasssrézﬁ "

95‘

though, that the same amendment says that
no “State shall deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property, without due process
of law.” This extends to all persons,
including illegal immigrants who were
neither born nor naturalized here, and who
apparently would not classify as human
life if one were to take Ms. LeMoine’s
faulty interpretation seriously.

My next point will serve to address
an important theme in both Ms. LeMoine’s
and Mr. Heath’s pieces. The two
emphasize the trauma of rape; and, I do
not doubt, the trauma of rape is certainly
very great and very damaging to those who
have suffered it. I mean no offense when I
say this, but emotional trauma never
justifies the taking of innocent human life.

Is the child who is a product of rape
guilty of some offense against her mother?
Is it her fault if her mother looks at her
and can only be reminded of her rapist? I
do not pretend that it is easy to raise a child
who is the product of one’s own rape; and
certainly we should work to make adoption
an available choice to the unfortunate
mothers of such children.

However, we ought not to sacrifice
another, innocent person’s life to our own
emotional distress. It is not anyone ’s right
to do so.

Mr. Heath states that ectopic
pregnancies are a “keystone issue,”
suggesting that pro-lifers would demand
that the mother die rather than that the
fetus be killed.

But no one supports a ban on
abortion when the mother’s life is at stake.
Even Ann Coulter, who we can all agree
is NOT the very essence of moderation,
would retain an exemption to preserve the

      

«

rm as straw“:

516.70

 

V ; l:§Uv~W:3i§ Fssargear Ci: stares with six spealazarza. inttuding two

, tweeters and Satan Saand ?§Fr>xes:5it22.f; ,4‘ MP3 rapahtia and lllrl
- :<';s<s¥:r'.'rti.2£:s !’%.%t}€l}’ 2‘ air terrzteétiaaa-V:-t Chalet  lltteé wliarzsl ztwir
aa';s.:s§.r°s':-:s ,3‘ .il¥i“£‘§'§~-iiiiigillt brakes l ftewter ‘wirzeaws,  il.iir:;§:s, and
' ‘ eatséeie rrré=rm:“a 3‘ ’§-year, a§,.ElE¥ﬁ~r*:tiita;=-;~ Peaertrairr isarr‘antf;*

‘ E Stan’;”FirrsPriie”;prsrz:ha:s=eeiipsrierrte
I means Ha baggie. its hassle.

 nail, Eiraala, 2trs2§l=:i§arsa.3r:3‘  3§‘%il?t>2’§

mother’s life.

Mr. Heath also says that the rights
granted in Roe v. Wade (for truly, they are
granted, as they lack any real
constitutional foundation) are not about
“abortion in place of safe sex” or
destroying a fetus diagnosed with a genetic
defect.

Whatever the original intent,
though, Roe v. Wade does secure legal
rights to exactly those, even in the last
trimester: no state in the Union may
restrict by law the reasons for pursuing
abortion.

Furthermore, if we compare
international abortion policy, the United
States ranks at least seventh of I 95 for the
most liberal abortion policies in the world.
(Abortion policy information obtained
from the Center for Reproductive Rights,

»a. pro—choice or-ganizationz. <http://

www.crlp.org[>.) That means that Roe v.
Wade is about as “moderate” as the
Communist Party, U.S.A.

'In conclusion, all of the wondrous,
and often harrowing, adventure we call life
begins with but two small cells becoming
one.

If we do not nurture this most
fundamental of all human rights, all other
rights are perfectly meaningless: for
without life there are neither riches nor

poverty, neither liberty nor slavery, neither,

happiness nor sorrow.

There is no possibility for us to truly
appreciate the beauty of a rose when we
nip it in the bud.

Sincerely,

Kyle Sulli ‘O6

Bookstore commends campus

Dear Editor,

On behalf of the University
Bookstore we would like to thank the over
250 students and members of the
Washington and Lee community who
stood in the long line on Saturday and
waited patiently , some for over 5 hours,
to have a book signed by Tom Wolfe.
Without a break and with a fountain pen,
Mr. Wofe signed 342 books, many of
which were personally inscribed in his
distinctive elegant script. In spite of a
scheduled departure for 2:30, Mr. Wolfe

stayed until everyone in line left with a
signed book. As he was preparing to leave
after the event, Tom commented how
touched he was by the tremendous student
response to the signing and praised the
innate civility and lively intelligence he
always experiences in his interactions with
W&L students. A compliment indeed
from a man who personiﬁes Lee’s “one
rule.” Kudos to you all!

Sincerely,
Bill & Maureen Becker

  BliieRi    
mes rm r. T?-Ilrik-‘hi-PT

(fare i4.ii'.i'.a’:_i«v.fs:._u 5‘?! Mimi‘
~j}-SE83
',s;§,$ ‘Ni;-rili Le: Hwy
5;.-eiuzisigztcrn, "ii-‘A
;r:;uii»:;u.- $!.,‘;.»é.l..! in £i"r—”r_°Jf}i|_I'!!?! =-T-mi’
.,.§'i*:-I'M. 3.‘ 1' {I

:';:3.,p..~i:.a|in7ng in."

I3}-rilwgti-;-iii-:5
Eizcsrrs }«'I~'.W.-’.i:‘l«ri;'=‘lT||~'l
gpgmr iiraiiarixaiiqzi
Pas:-i:'lI" ml is I ill ifﬂilﬂﬂ

F‘jg;;;,;:.:e ,;*;1’fE gr gtggqi .rI'.I_,.= his $&BI?:.11§ with -711"? "¥éf5“'—'~“'5" 535$-
  ._-_!g_,1v<‘:     
;'m,gmicng_ _.;°."' '1,-r_.’I:.!r' £;‘J$ﬁi"ﬂ?'E»?i!.

 



 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 

  yaur nearest Stlﬁﬂ Sealer  Srioattrm er tall ‘l-346   if

 
 
      
   

t./’'“ L)

-......--/‘”/’“”‘~”‘3\
K ~
/"""‘\~_...«
FENE LINGERIE

Downtown
Lexington ’s
Sweetheart Shop

 

21 W. Nelson St.

463-6963 I

Mon ~ Fri lO—5:30
Sat 10-5

“semper 110:‘ sub ubi”

 

  

 

8 0 THERNG-TUMPH

 

lVKNDAY,l¥BRUARY7,ﬂ5

H

word

 

I\

'Thank you Burish for having the
character to do what is best, whether it
is popular or not. It proves that this
school is about Honor within the
administration as well as the students.

-Great job administration for
increasing the chances of sexual assault
because parties are pushed into the
country.

-No one from the administration is
pushing parties to the country; no one
from the administration would be
responsible for an increase in drinking
crimes, or sexual assault. It’s fellow
students that would be forcing health
problems and more alcohol down each
other’s throats, and it’s fellow students
that commit sexual assault against each
other.

INow I guess I have to go to the co-
op, oops, I mean the Cafe 77 to get
beer.

-I wonder if Burish is a virgin, we
know that he wants to make drinks that
are.

-I feel like I’m living under a
dictator regime. Let’s call Bush and
bring in the troops.

ITraveller better get a lot more cars
and run for a lot more hours.

-Why does the school have to hate
fun?

-So, the Board of Trustees must

have been drinking O’Douls all
weekend?

lWasn’t it nice of the Board and the
administration to hold an open
meeting this weekend with students
to talk openly about the new alcohol
policy enforcement...oh...wait.

-Everyone in this school just needs
to grow up and act responsibly.

Nextﬁrne’slnpic:
Wi|dandCrazyFeb
breakstories.

Visiting land of
debutante ba s

Early decides to spend ﬁrst Wash-
ington break in the peach state

ByKristheEaly

NI.KN\DG-EESEGIFI.

Washington Holiday is less than a
week away! Come Friday morning, I bid
farewell to LexVegas. As much as I
worship Salemo’s (Shout out to the hottest
waitresses ever: Paten and Angela!), adore
the downtown shops and revere Traveler’s
gravesite, this vacation is much needed. A
town with a population of 7,000... after
awhile it gets old. _

, Althoughl am breaking my parents’
hearts (Sorry mom and dad!), I am not
going home for break. Janesville,
Wisconsin is a metropolis compared to our
very own LexVegas.

In addition to a Wal—Mart there is a
Target and a K—mart. Okay, I’ll be fair.
There are two movie theaters and there is
a mall. Plus, we did just get a Starbucks.
Clearly, we’re legit now. However, for a
place that lays claim to 60,000 residents,
the “City of Parks” is lacking. If a
Janesvillite wants live entertainment, he
goes to the high school football game. If
he wants “culture,” he goes to the all-you-
can-eat Chinese buffet.

Worst of all, Janesville is
surrounded by farrnland- miles and miles
of comfields and green pastures. I like
com. I like cows, too. On a bun with
lettuce, tomatoes, and ketchup. (Sorry
vegetarians, but nothing tastes better than
a big juicy hamburger and French fries.
Or shall we say Freedom Fries?) However,
when the wind blows the wrong way, let’s
just say that the air doesn’t smell “spring
fresh.”

Janesville, being literally half way
between the two coasts, smack dab in the
middle of bovine country, is also the most
out of touch city in the country. We didn’t
even hear about Tommy Hilﬁger until ﬁve
years after everyone else had stopped
wearing his designs. Our newspaper’s top
story for the last year and a half: Super

Wal-Mart, to build or not to build?
People actually picketed. It was big. I’ll
keep you updated.

I’m an adventurer. I like
excitement. Obviously, J—town is not
the ideal location for me. So, instead
of subjecting myself to hours of small
town boredom and the zero—degree
weather characteristic of a Wisconsin
winter, I am going to spend the week
with one of my favorite people in the
entire world- my brother. You can
“awww” right about now.

At roughly 8:00 am on February
11, I will begin my journey to Athens,
Georgia. It will entail one car trip, two
airplane ﬂights, and one bus ride. It will
probably be 5:00 p.m. before I even set
foot in the Peach State. But don’t cry
for me, Argentina: I have six hundred
pages of assigned readings to keep me
occupied. Lucky me!

I am really excited about this trip.
I’ ve never been to Georgia before. This
will be my very first venture “down

South.” Sure, I’ve been to Myrtle Beach A

and Orlando. Somehow, I am guessing
that doesn’t count. True, I’ve been
living in Virginia for five months. But
while Virginians may wave their
confederate ﬂags and speak with a
slight twang, I have yet to see “good
ol’ southern hospitality” or to be called
“lil’ 1ady.” (Please never call me that.)

I want to hear people drawll I
want debutante balls! I want bumper

stickers that say “I’m on the prowl for .

tonight’s dinner. Watch the front
fender”! Will Georgia fit all of its
stereotypes and rise to the high
expectations of a pure-bred
Midwestemer like myself? Only ten
more hours of (enlightening) lectures
and (scintillating) discussion and I will

get my answer. Meanwhile, the Cheese I

State will just have to go on without
me. What a shame...

I want bumper stickers that say “I ’m on the
prowl for tonight’s dinner. Watch the front

fender”!

Fisherman claims sandwich better than
sex, beautiful women, and 80’s music

Trout does not need a girl to put the color inside of his
world, just give him a Sunrise Sandwich from the co-op.

Bynugnrmut

Tl-EFS'BWl:1AN

Classical writers discussed the idea
of food of the gods: they called it
arnbrosia. The idea that such a food could
be available to us mere mortals is as stupid
an idea as Clear Pepsi, right? Wrong. It
is available, and despite overwhelming
odds it can be found here in Lexington.
What is this magical food? Sunrise
Sandwiches.

For years this wonderful creation
has helped sustain even the greatest heroes
of our time. Such Sunrise enthusiasts
include Robert E. Lee, all members of
Duran Duran, and even Slater from Saved
by the Bell.

There are knock—offs, however.
Some people are so devoid of taste that
they think McDonald’s breakfast
sandwiches are similar. This is about as
ignorant and preposterous as claiming that
Lindsay Lohan is as talented as Hilary
Duff (there is a face book group for those
of us who have enough class to
understand how much cooler Hilary
Duff is...).

And so I would like to
express my ﬁrm belief that the
definition of happiness for
any man is experiencing
both the love of a
beautiful woman and
the love of a
beautiful Sunrise ,/ 
S a n d w i c h . if
However, the
treacherous
question is
which would
he choose if
presented with
the horror of
having to pick
just one. I
understand this may seem -
like a nightmarish scenario that
is too heinous to fathom, but it is an

important question. While one may be led

to assume that the obvious choice is the
love of a woman, I think the choice is
harder when one takes the time to consider
all the advantages of sunrise sandwiches.

First, a Sunrise Sandwich will never
get drunk and tell all your friends that you
said Bridget Jones’ Diary was the feel—~

Marshal
friend in

Bymarsmlnure
l%TATO|W\N

For nearly twenty years of my life,
I have never understood a single thing that
a girl does. I use the term girl because I
have never met a woman. Guys have to
earn the right tobe called aman andlthink
girls have to earn the right to be called a
woman. A

I have had horrible luck with girls.
But it’s not all their fault. Up until college,
I had never had anyone give me good
advice on what to say or do when it comes
to the opposite sex.

But I was able to ﬁnd that new best
friend who tells me everything I need to
know about girls. I now have someone to
talk to about all my problems and they give
me good advice that never falters. That
person is Mike D and the rest of the
Beastie Boys.

The Beastie Boys are not very cool
people. In high school, they got beat up a
lot. No one cared what a couple of wanna

‘be rappers had to say, especially the girls.

While their moms were busy taking away
their best porno mag, the girls were busy

You can talk to sunrise sandwiches for hours
and they will listen and won’t ever interrupt.

good movie of the year with lots of
perspective for the common man. I still
am recovering from that one.

Second, a Sunrise Sandwich will
never put you into the position of listening
to her god awful music and making you
pretend it’s as good as the stuff you listen
to. After all, sunrise sandwiches don’t
have the ability to enjoy music, but
everyone knows that if they did they would
have killer taste. They would listen to
bands like Widespread Panic, O.A.R. and
Wilco. I could even imagine some of the
Sunrise Sandwiches kickin’ it to J ay-‘Z and
Thievery Corporation, cause they like to
keep their game on the creep and ﬂow with

   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

a diverse perspective.

Third, a Sunrise Sandwich is there
for you whenever you need it to be. It
won’t demand that you ignore other
sunrise sandwiches because it’s cool like
that. It understands that you’re just a

young guy looking to have a good time

and not wanting to get too attached to
anyone. After all, some days you want a
ham, others you really think the bacon is
where it’s at. No worries, no
commitments.

But for all the female fans of The
Fisherman, pay attention, this applies to
you equally. When was the last time a
Sunrise Sandwich drunk dialed you and
told you he loves you when you know all
he wants to do is get some? No way man,
sunrise sandwiches understand that just
isn’t chill. You are a person with feelings
and interests and Sunrise Sandwiches want
more than just a hook up. They want a
connection.

Can you remember a sunrise
sandwich ever talking to you about how
hot another girl is? Nope, that’s cause
sunrise sandwiches got game and they

of attention which you deserve
to be. While they may not
be able to hold doors for
you or pay for the movie
tickets, sunrise sandwiches
more than make up for it
with their listening skills.
You can talk to sunrise
sandwiches for hours and
they will listen and won’t
ever interrupt. And with
enough liquor, it won’t seem
as depressing talking to a
sandwich as you might think.
Besides, getting sloppy around
a guy on a Saturday night can
sometimes lead to something you
will regret in the morning. But
with Sunrise Sandwiches, you can
feel good about yourself despite the
number of lager shots you did.

So party, drink, hang out with cute
people of the opposite sex and listen to
some not so great music. Just remember,
no matter how badly you failed that exam
or how much it sucked when you got
caught pretending to remember the name
of the cute girl you were talking to last
night, Sunrise Sandwiches are there for
you.

finds new best
the Beastie Boys

Music changed the way Marshall goes about dating

The Beastie Boys are all about lying to make
yourself sound better. And it works.

dating the quarterback.

But one day, they woke up and were
magically given the power to make girls
fall upon their knees and worship them.
They had the power of music.

It is music that changed the way I
go about dating. The Beastie Boys are able
to tell women that all they want is “girls
to do the dishes/girls to clean up my room/
girls to do the laundry/and in the
bathroom” and still girls want to go
backstage with them.

So how do they do it? Tell them
lies. Make yourself sound good. In the
song Hey Ladies, Mike D tells his
prospective girl that he’s all—knowing.

The Beastie Boys are all about lying
to make yourself sound better. And it
works. I can’t count the number of times
I’ve heard about guys that meet a girl and
as soon as they ﬁnd out that she is from

Charleston, the guy lies and pretends that
he too is from that city. And it always
works.

The Beastie Boys know how to pick
the right girls too. They say, “I met a little
cutie she was all hopped up on zootie/I
liked the little cutie but I kicked her in the
bootie/Cause I don’t kinda go for that
messin’ around.”

The Beastie Boys know that if they
mess around with crazy chicks they’re
gonna get burned.

That’s why you’ve got to kick them
in the bootie. The Beastie Boys are able
to get girls because they are selective about
who they try to get with.

So, if you want your girl to be
“staring at the cracks up there upon the
ceiling,” you best listen to The Beastie
Boys and tell that girl that “[her] body’s

 

know how to make you the center '

A

  

W

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
THE RING =TUM PHI.
llIKXl3AY,EBHJAFIY23;ZX5 BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VGJMECVIMNBHWZ1

HOT TICKET

BRAVEFashionShow

The Day of Beauty will take place
on Saturday, March 5 from 10:00
am to 2:00 pm in the Sorority
Houses of Washington and Lee
University. The Fashion Show will
be held in the evening, from 6:30 to
10:30 pm. It will take place in
Evans Hall of Washington and Lee
University, black tie attire required.
The event will be catered and
showcase stylish clothing from local
shops, modeled by Washington and
Lee students and area residents.

Discussingtheworking Poor
Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and
David Shipler will speak at W&L on
Thursday, March 3, at 7:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel. Shipler’s address, “The
Working Poor: Invisible in America”
is open to the public and free of
charge. The address will be followed
by a 9 p.m. book signing at the
Washington and Lee Bookstore.

SIMPLE LIFE
Capilalizingonsleep

There is one thing in this world that
every college student needs, and
almost none of us get: sleep. Here
are some easy ways to help get a
better supply of slumber in eight
hours or less:

-Avoid Exercise:

9pm is not the time to try and lose
those last few vanity pounds, so give
it up and just relax. Your body’s
energy levels peak between 4 and
8pm, so you won’t make any real
progress anyway. Instead, try a quiet,
peaceful activity such as reading— A
college kids do that sometimes.
Experts say that activities such as
watching television and surfing the
intemet should als6"Ue avoided at
least an hour before sleeping,
because they make so many demands
on your brain.

-No More Drama:

This step may be tough for some of
us to tackle. Try not to have any
important conversations less than an
hour before bed. The idea here is
optimum relaxation, so when
possible, avoid making big
breakthroughs in your life just before
sleep. Delay any big conversations
until the morning, when you will not
only be more rational, but also more
positive.

-Bouncing off the Walls Again?
Stay away from caffeine and sugar
after 8pm. Not only has your body’s
metabolism slowed down, preventing
you from burning off these calories,
but also you will have a harder time
trying to settle in for some serious
power sleep. Though it sounds like
something an old lady would do, try
warm milk with honeyemilk has a
modiﬁed version of the amino acid
tryptophan, plus calcium, both of

_ which help lull you to sleep. The

honey (as well as the temperature of
the beverage) allow for better
absorption and better relaxation.
-Get Yourself in the Mood

Nothing says sleep better than a cool,
dark room and your favorite PJs. The
ideal conditions for sleep involve
quiet, steady white noise—a fan
works great—as well as a dark room
and a comfy bed. Avoid sleeping in
uncomfortable clothing such as
denim, and try not to fall asleep over
a textbook. You’ll rest better if you
put the books away and lie down
relaxed and calm. Also, try to turn
your clock away from you, so you
can’t sense the urgency of time while
you’re trying to sleep.

IA few extra zzz’s come in handy
when trying to avoid illness, stress,
and dark undereye circles. Get ready
to start each day refreshed and
ready—now that exhaustion isn’t an
obstacle, you’ll have new problems
to deal with!

QUICK POLL

Q: Doyou use
MM ?

  

51 students polled, 29 male. 22 lemale. Poll has 95% conﬁdence
in a +/- 5% margin of error.

W&L eyes major housing reforms 

ByCtIisLardanm
H)'lU=l—NCHEF

Greek housing will be exclusively
available to juniors and seniors in the
future, according to the preliminary
strategic plan. Released over Washington
Break, the plan said freshmen and
sophomores will be required to live on
campus in “Learning Communities,”
potentially based on a theme.

“The reports are preliminary in
nature and now available for all to
comment,” said Dawn Watkins, Dean of
Students. “There are a lot of ideas that
would need further exploration but
nothing is set in stone at this point.”

But if it does happen, smaller
fraternities who rely on sophomores to fill
their housing quotas may run into ﬁnancial
difﬁculties. Currently, fraternities have to
pay for every bed that is not occupied in
their house-

New residence halls are a high
priority according to the administration.

“There need to be social spaces,”
said Joe Grasso, Vice President for
Administration.

Grasso said that there is a revenue
source for the dorms — students. Another
reason for building new dorms is to attract
conferences to W&L over the summer. He
said that the new residences will most
likely be suite style and the location of the
new dorm or dorms has not yet been
determined.

In the coming year, the university
will be hiring a campus master plarmer.
This planner will review all areas of
campus and decide where new buildings
could be built and where pedestrian
connections could be made.

If it is decided that Baker, Davis,
and Gilliam are located in prime academic
areas, freshmen could be moved to another
location. Woods Creek Apartments could

even be replaced by a new concept.

“This [sophomore campus
residency], like the many other proposals
in the various planning reports, is on the
table for discussion,” Provost Thomas
Williams said. “How it will be evaluated
and prioritized in the process is far from
determined, and input from students,
faculty, alumni and others will be
important to its consideration.”

The recommendation for
sophomores to live on campus came from
different sources. The gender relations
committee pointed out that the sophomore
year, the males are gone. Also, the faculty
expressed an interest in the Learning
Communities. The timeline for this is
uncertain. Grasso said it could be as far
off as ten years, while Watkins said it
might not even happen.

The University says that it is not
planning because of a crisis, but because
of an opportunity. This opportunity is to

better the school’s reputation and ranking.
Nine task forces were organized to
come up with specific plans such as
academic, student life and admissions.
The task forces are composed of Trustees,
Administrators, and Faculty members.
The members of the task forces were
selected by one task force leader who was
knowledgeable in his topic. The leader
then selected the rest of the members.
The posted plan is not the final plan.
It is currently up for discussion and review.
Students can make any comments they
would like before the ﬁnal draft is made
in February 2006. Comments can be made
by emailing Provost Williams or going to
the drop box part of the strategic plan’s
website at http://strategicplan.wlu.edu.
“Students should, indeed, take this
information seriously,” Williams said.
“We want to know student views on all
these proposals, and want as well to have
original ideas from the student body.”

STEPPERS SHINE ON SATURDAY

StompingmdoIappingtheirwayintoW&LhistoIy,7Greekorga1iza1ions
pedomedaheart-pumpingshowh1ﬂ1egymonSaurrday.111estepshow,as
wenasﬁienemy-qapmvedacadanicoornoamaﬂomderrrmshateagomng
in1IerestinAfrican-Americanstudiesoncampus. SeniorTIﬂanyJenkinssaid,
“|t’sgeatthalwe’re having somethingdifferentgoingonaround campus. It

gotalotofpeopletogelher.”

Corbin B|ack1ord/ Photo Editor

African-American
Studies coming

BySa'd1|V|uray

l\EVVSEI|'U°l

Four years ago, a student group
called the Black Female Alliance first
called upon the faculty to create an
African-American Studies program at
Washington & Lee. Last month, the
administration and faculty responded,
approving an African-American Studies
concentration to be available in the fall.

“We’ve worked for nearly three
years to bring it to reality, and now we can
begin the real work with the teaching and
the learning,” said Associate Professor
Marc Conner, who was one of the
prograrn’s authors.

Conner and Associate Professor Ted
DeLaney took up the students’ appeals,
bringing the proposal before the
Committee of Courses and Degrees two
years ago. The issue was put aside as the
Spring Term controversy escalated, but
Conner and DeLaney doggedly brought it
back at the beginning of this year.

What started as a student suggestion
is now ofﬁcially a part of Washington &
Lee’s course selection.

“Undergraduate student ideas can
become a reality here if they have merit,”
said DeLaney, who heads the program.

That’s no exaggeration. When a
science student worked with her
professors to plan an independent degree
program, the Neuroscience major was
born. Later, student requests triggered the
establishment of the Women’s Studies
concentration.

Completing the concentration is

easier than students may expect. Nearly
all of the courses are already in the catalog.
Some, like History of the African-
American People, have been taught at
Washington & Lee for 10 years.
Consequently, many students have already
fulfilled several of the program’s
requirements.

“A lot of juniors are going to look
at this and say, ‘Oh my gosh, I’m halfway
there,” said DeLaney.

, “It’s conceivable that in the next
year or two W&L will graduate its first
students with a concentration in Aﬁican—
American Studies,” Conner pointed out.

Students in the program are required
to take an introductory course
(Interdepartmental 130), History of the
African-American People, and to
complete a senior capstone project.
Otherwise, they may choose from certain
History, Politics, Sociology, English,
Literature, Art and Music courses to ﬁnish
the 21-credit concentration.

“This is truly an interdisciplinary
program,” DeLaney said.

The concentration will not be
published in the upcoming catalog, but
will appear on the registrar’s website this
fall. Like other concentrations at
Washington & Lee, African-American
Studies will not appear on any degree, but
on academic transcripts only.

A luncheon for interested students
will be held on March 7 at 12:00 p.m.
Students are requested to e-mail DeLaney
(delaneyt@wlu.edu) if they plan on
attending.

Va. House passes bill to help students with textbooks

ByLedIKerslnM
STAFFVWIITEH

Local college students are frustrated
with the high prices and low resale value
of textbooks. Mindful of the slim budgets
of many college students, the Virginia
House of Delegates passed a bill to help
students get the best deal on textbooks.

House Bill 1726 requires public
colleges and universities to provide
students with textbook lists well before
classes start so that students can compare
prices with various book vendors to ﬁnd
the lowest prices.

The bill also prohibits professors
from accepting any type of monetary
payment from a publisher as an incentive
to order one of their textbooks.

W&L bookstore co-manager Bill
Becker said he always consults several
vendors to ﬁnd the lowest textbook prices.

The W&L bookstore makes very little

proﬁt, if any, from the sale of textbooks,
said Bill Becker.

W&L still uses a brick-and-mortar
store to sell textbooks to its students.
Operating costs for the store and the high
shipping costs of textbooks greatly reduce
any proﬁt that the bookstore would make

 

from textbook sales, said Bill Becker.
Becker’s goal is to bring the most
reasonable price to students. ’

Amaya Moure ’06, a sociology and
anthropology major, said she spends $350
a semester on books. “Textbooks are
completely overpriced,” said Moure. “It
seems wasteful to buy a book and then
have the professor assign one chapter to
read,” said Moure.

Moure estimated that her professors
assign only a small section of 25 percent
of her textbooks. “In general, most
professors don’t seem to be concerned
with the cost of textbooks,” said Moure.

However, Tyler Dickovick, a
politics professor at W&L, said he is
mindful of textbook prices. Consequently,
Dickovick said he tries to keep the books
for his classes at a reasonable price,
usually under $150 a semester.

In an effort to reduce textbook
prices, Bill Becker said he is trying to
increase the number of used textbooks that
he can offer to students every year. A used
textbook costs 25 percent less than a new
book.

Maureen Becker, co—manager of the
W&L bookstore, said the prices ‘offered
to students for their used books are based
on a sliding scale of ﬁve to 50 percent of

the new book price based on the condition
and demand of the book. The used books
are then re—sold for up to 75 percent of
their original value, said Maureen Becker.

Southern Virginia University has
been using an on—line textbook supply
company for six years. John McKenzie,
manager of the school store at SVU, said
the school switched to an on-line service
because the store was an expense to the
school.

E—campus, the school’s textbook
site, competes with Amazon and Barnes
and Noble to offer the lowest prices to
students.

However, McKenzie admits that on-
line textbook services are not ﬂawless.
Books do not always get to the students
in time for classes, and students who
register late or switch classes have to do
without books for a few days.

New students who are not aware of
SVU’s online textbook service are also at
a disadvantage, said McKenzie. In an
effort to reduce these problems, McKenzie
said he stocks 10 percent of the books for
all class offerings in the school store for
students that have problems with their
textbook orders.

Textbook lists for classes are
provided two months before the start of a

new term to provide students with ample
time to order their books, said McKenzie.
However, even with the on—line service,
about 20 percent of students buy their
textbooks from other sources.

The school encourages students to
buy their textbooks from E—campus
because the schoolcan hold E—campus
accountable for orders and help students"
when their orders are not correct or timely.
E-campus voluntarily upgrades shipping
for all orders that have not arrived by the
first day of classes, said McKenzie.

In addition, the school makes a ﬁve
percent proﬁt from all E—campus textbook
sales.

The market for textbooks is very
competitive and professors are under
constant pressure from publishers to order
new editions for their classes. A publisher
proﬁts once from a book and that’s when
it is sold new. Used book dealers proﬁt
from all future transactions.

At SVU, professors are cost-
conscious and only buy new editions that
have a significant difference, said
McKenzie.

The high cost of textbooks is not a
source of income for colleges. “Textbooks
are not a profit center for W&L,” said
Maureen Becker.

 

 

Students

compete in
Mock Trial

Two teams com-
pete in ﬁrst-time
event for W&L

ByKatherineSheIandCMsLaJdemim
A$T.NEWSEDfl'ORN\DE|3I'lU°rN-C1-IE:

This past weekend, W&L’s

Mock Trial team traveled to D.C. to

compete in a regional Mock Trial.

W&L sent two teams to the
competition.

This is the first year for W&L to

have a Mock Trial team, and W&L held

their own as they competed against I

more experienced teams such as UVA,
Maryland at College Park, and
Howard. Mock Trial’s team captains
are Aditya Kamath ’06 and Bill Larson
‘08, and they were led by Professor
Belmont of the law school and aided
by Kimberly Thomas ‘05L.

“I’m extremely proud,” Belmont
said. “I think they did an excellent
job.”

Team A was comprised of Bill
Larson ’08, Timothy Conway ‘O7,
Michael Julius ’06, Rebecca Lemoine
’08, Walker Humphrey ’07, and David
Mitchell ’O7.

Team B included Katie Weber
’07, Aditya Kamath ’06, Victoria
Kesselman ’07, Christine Giordano
’08, and Sonia Siu ’07, with Kathy
Garman ’08 subbing for Pearse
Davidson ’O7.

Twenty-eight teams participated
from the Mid-Atlantic region, the most
competitive region. Nine teams
advanced to the national level, and only
the top ten teams were ranked. Ranking
number one was Maryland at College
Park.

On Saturday, Team A competed
against William and Mary teams in both
rounds one and two. Team B went
against Mary Washington and
Maryland. On Sunday, Team B was
put against UVA, who later ranked
number ﬁve of the twenty eight, and
Team A went against Campbell.

Though W&L did not rank in the
ﬁnal top ten, members felt that they had
done well for their ﬁrst year. “The
Judge liked us," says Weber. “We
thought it was pretty balanced.” The
results of team b were not yet revealed
at the time of printing.

“We didn’t get a bid to nationals,
but we did surprisingly well for a ﬁrst
year program,” Kamath said.

Kamath wasn’t the only team
member who thought the event went
well.

“It was amazing,” said Sonia Siu
‘O7. “We didn’t know what to expect.
We went in and did our best and we
did much better than we expected.”

Siu also contributes the team’s
success to Professor Belmont who was
helping them along the whole way.

The teams have been preparing
for this event all year.

“We had worked all year 6 hours
a week practicing the case,” Siu said.

This past week, the students
participated in several intensive
practices lasting 9-12 hours.

Belmont said that she plans on
offering this class again next year. It is
a one credit class in both the fall and
the winter.

There will be two teams again
next year lead once again by Kamath
and Larson. The Mock Trial team
hopes to get more people involved in

the fall. The teams of 6-8 people will

be selected in the winter.

“It was amazing. We
didn’t know what to
expect. We went in
and did our best and
we did much better
tltczri we expected.”
SonlaSh1,‘07

First African Lit & cinema
panels held this weekend

Princeton professor delivers Keynote

Byctvlslardemim
EDITOR-N-GIEF

Presenters from 15 colleges and
universities from around the country will
be in Lexington March 4 and 5 for the first
Colloquium on African Literatures and
Cinemas and Contemporary Theories.

There will be ﬁve panel discussions
over the two days. Each panel will have
three speakers and one chair. The chair
will be a W&L professor.

One panel will be done entirely in
French.

Panel topics include, “The
Production of Postmodernism in African
Cinema,” “Foucault’s Theory of
Knowledge. and the African Novel,” and
“The Theoretical Implications of African-
Derived Musical Forms in Literature.”

The keynote address will be
delivered by Simon Gikandi, an English
professor at Princeton University.

Gikandi will be speaking on “Africa
and the Paradigms,” Friday at 7:30 in the
Washington Dining Room of Evans Hall.

Saturday evening in the Commons
Living Room, there will be an African
drum performance.

These drummers are mostly African
performers currently living in Atlanta.

It is not clear how often an African
Literature and Cinema colloquium will be

held at W&L in the future.

“I would love to do it again and as
frequently as possible,” Kamara said. “But
I don’t know about an annual event.”

The colloquium is sponsored by the
Class of 1965 Endowment for Excellence
in Teaching, the Global Stewardship
Program, the Center for International
Education, the Office of the Dean of
Students for Multi-Cultural Affairs, the
Office of the Dean of the College, the
Office of the Provost, the University
Lectures Funds, and the Department of
Romance Languages.

Professor Kamara also wished to
thank Lynn‘Bennett and the students of
his LIT 295 class who formed committees
to help bring the event to campus.

“I am very grateful for the support
from the University and professors,”
Kamara said.

“I couldn’t do it without the moral
support of my colleagues,” Karnara said.

The colloquium will kick off Friday
with a welcome at 9:30 a.m. by the
organizer of the event, Professor
Mohamed Karnara.

Also welcoming the guests will be
John Lambeth, chair of the Romance
Languages department and Provost
Thomas Williams.

The panel discussions, keynote
address, and drum performance are open
to the university community.

W&L’sfencing clubhostedahoumamentsaturday ingym. clbmeels

IVUVDAY, IEBRUAHY 28.2115

 

Mondayar1dWednesdayeveningsandSaturdaymorningsinﬂ'iegym.

Run for the Law Mar. 19

ByKaheSheIlnuu
STAFFWHTER '

The fourth Annual Run for The
Law, a 10K run and 5K walk sponsored
by Washington and Lee School of Law’s
PILSA, will have 150 community-
members pounding the pavement on
Saturday, March 19, 2005.
As they run through downtown,
VMI, and W & L, participants’ efforts will
benefit PILSA, the Public Interest Law
Students Association, who encourages law
graduates to take careers for governmental
or legal aid.

Registration forms for the race are
available at the PILSA website,
www.pilsa.wlu.edu. A $20 registration fee
includes a donation to PILSA as well as a
t-shirt, and a free pair of running shoes

from Graden Shoe Company will be
awarded to top male and female
competitors.

“This year’s race will generate
funds for W&L’s fledgling Loan
Repayment Assistance Program,” said
Nick Frazier, PILSA treasurer.”

The organization wants to increase
participation to allow for further advocacy
opportunities.

“Every year the club has attempted
to put on a race that is more enjoyable for
the runners and more successful for
everyone else involved,” said Frazier.

“Law students have made up the
majority of the participants, but we are
always attempting to broaden that. Not
just to the undergraduates and staff, but
to the larger community of area runners,
from Roanoke to Washington.”

Brilliant bunch brings boundless brains

Bysadwlmay

NEVVSEUTG3

The campus will be inundated with
fresh faces Tuesday as next year’s Honor
Scholars candidates arrive for three days
of interviews, open houses, and tours.

The Student Recruitment
Committee, headed by Nick Gorham ’05,
will usher the 111 high school seniors
around campus during their stay.
Committee members also read
applications, conduct their own

interviews, and turn in an evaluation of
the students with whom they come in
contact.

“Academically, on paper at least,
they’re the most outstanding bunch we’ve
ever had,” Gorham said.

The Admissions Ofﬁce selected 140
finalists for the 40 full scholarships
offered. Several finalists will also be
offered partial scholarships, the amounts
of which are determined by each fmalist’s
regional scholarships.

The competitors, who will sleep in
the dorms, will attend classes in the

mornings and discuss the school with
panels of student leaders and tour guides.
Later, each prospective student will
undergo three interviews: one with a
student, one with a faculty member, and
one with an admissions officer.

“W&L sort of takes a special
interest in their admissions process,”
Gorham said. “We’re not just looking for
kids who are really smart or have knockout
SAT scores...We want people who are
really going to do good things for the
university during their four years here.”

The interviewers seek students who

as Scholars

are passionate about the university and
academics. The real standouts are those
who seem destined to become active
community members—volunteers, dorm
counselors, student leaders, etc.

The most important question to ask,
Gorham said, is, “Once we offer this
person a full scholarship, will they really
dedicate themselves to paying that debt
back to the university?”

The freshman class entering next
fall will number approximately 450. 197
students have already been accepted by
Early Decision.

Ethics bowl team wins in Virginia compet

ByKalherineShel

A$T.l\£\NSE)|T0=l

On February 16, Leah Greenburg
’05, Susan Somers ’05, Sam Russell ’05,
Matthew Class ’05, and alternate Derrick
Barksdale ’06, competed in Virginia’s
Ethics Bowl Competition at Virginia
Wesleyan College.

They were led by Professor James
Mahon.

After defeating Virginia Wesleyan,
Hoﬂins, Lynchburg, and Randolph-Macon
Women’s College, the team went against
Randolph Macon College in the final
round. Washington and Lee’s team won
the 2005 Ethics Bowl Championship for

the first time in the six year history of the
competition.

“We prepared by meeting every
week in the first half of Winter Term,” said
Mahon.

“The trick is to have an argument
that will be comprehensive enough to deal
with any possible counter argument that
the other team will come up with. When
you have four people presenting one
argument, they must think as one mind,”
he said.

“There is no doubt about it,” adds
Mahon, “we really have multi-talented
students at W&L. They are extremely
intelligent, they are excellent public
speakers, and they are wonderfully
personable.”

 

 

itin Ver Fe break

    

Photo eourtesyProtessor Mahon.

Agnor"s Gun Wor'ks,LLC

“Gunsmithing”283 Edgars Way ~ Lexington, VA
24450
540-463-1934
www.ognor'sgunwor‘ks.com
TRANSFERS ~ SALES BLUING ~ .
NICKEL PLATING REPAIRS ON ALL TYPES OF
FIREARMS

#1 spring Break Ilaeations
caneun, lamaiea, Aeanuleo, Bahamas, 8.
Florida!

Best Parties. Best Hotels. Best Prices!
Iiroun nlseounts, 0r0anizers Travel Free!
space is limited! Book New 8. save!
1-000-234-1001

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus-

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call TODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CampusFundraiser.
Contact Canipusﬁundraiser‘, (888) 923-3238, or

 

 

 
 

J.

A

MUGDAY, FEBRUARY 28,ZX5

S110

rts

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

THIS WEEK

WEﬂESDAY,MARCH2

-Baseball vs. Apprentice; 3200
-Women’s Tennis vs. Hollins; 4:00
-Women’s Lacrosse at L'burg; 4:00

TI'lBSDAY,MAHCH3
-Men’s Tennis vs. H-SC; 3:00 .

SATURDAY, MARCH5

-Women’s Tennis vs. WAC; 10:00
-Track at Va. Tech; 10:00

-Men’s Tennis vs. WAC; 10:00
-Baseball at E&H (DH); 1200
-Women’s Lacrosse vs. F&M; 1:00
-Men’s Lacrosse vs. Getty; 1:00

SATl.RDAY,MARCH5
-Men’s Tennis vs. Goucher; 12:00

SPORTS BRIEFS

._ w&LMen’ssw'nm'ngconpeies

at UGA Bulldog Invitational (2/26)
The Washington and Lee men’s
swimming team set two school
records on the first day of the
University of Georgia Bulldog
Invitational on Saturday afternoon in
Athens, Ga.

W&L Men’sTennis Fallsto
 &1

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis
team fell to fourth—ranked Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps in the consolation
round of the ITA Indoor National in
St. Peter, Minn. The Generals will
play Mary Washington in the seventh
place match..

W&LWomen’sTemisOpens

«, W|th9-0VVin0verE&H(2/26)

The Washington and Lee women’s

tennis team opened its spring season
with a 9-0 win over Emory & Henry
on Saturday afternoon in Emory, Va.

W&LRidingCompelesinTwo
EveI1lsOver1heWeekend (ﬂ)
The W&L riding team finished eighth
out of nine teams at the JMU/
Bridgewater Invitational on Saturday,
but recovered to place second out of
nine teams at the University of
Virginia Invitational on Sunday
afternoon. Junior Caitlin Lane
(Leesburg, Va./Poolesville (Md.))
finished as the high—point rider at the
Virginia Invitational

W&LWomen’s Basketballclaims
TwoAltConferenceSeleotions

Washington and Lee sophomore
center Jessica Hunsinger and junior
guard Louisa Feve were named to the
all-conference team which was
announced by the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference on Wednesday ‘
evening.

   
 
 

   

   

   
   
 

   
  
 

Nil}-’ilriit
it

' lilht ll
f

 
  

9/

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
s4o34ss22o - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshop&daminformation.

 

Halfway between Lexington and Staunton
On [-81 / I-64 at exit 205, Raohine 4mi1es west on
Route  Raphine Rand. Locatt-d on (1 working
farm that oﬁers "U-PICA" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

Tues - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed tmtil 8:00

gum 

Baseball advances to 8-2

Bylllhshdﬁtle
wwavcamicn

The Washington and Lee Generals
baseball team was able to extend its record
to 8-2 Saturday afternoon by winning both
of their games against Mount Aloysius.

“We had talked about jumping out
to an early lead to keep the other team on
their heels,” said sophomore pitcher Adam
Kowalsky, “and we did that with the help
of McConnell’s homerun in the third
inning.” -
In the third inning, junior Taylor
McConnell hit a two-run homer off the left
ﬁeld foul post. After a double by Richard
Garland and a single by Jordan Wesley,

senior Adam Bullock hit a RBI double to
bring in Garland and advance Wesley who
then scored on a wild pitch.

Warren Hunter also hit an RBI
single in the inning.

With the help of the McConnell RBI
in the first inning, the Generals were able
to take a six-run lead after three innings.
Both McConnell and David Miller
finished the game 3-4 hitting.

Clayton Edwards also extended his
scoreless inning streak by allowing only
three hits over ﬁve innings, and striking
out 10 of the Mounties batters.

“We played an all-around good
game,” said Kowalsky. “Strong pitching,
solid defense and timely hitting.”

In the second game, the Mounties
were able to jump out to an early two-run
lead in the second inning after two RBI
singles.

Clayton Edwards, however, showed
his ability on the offensive side of the ball
too by cutting the lead in half with an RBI
single of his own in the bottom of the same
inning.

But it was in the bottom of the third
where the Generals were able to gain the
lead for good with a four run rally.
McConnell hit a ﬁelder’s choice RBI that
brought in Dave McKenzie. An error by
the Mounties third baseman allowed
Garland to reach first, and Miller also
scored on the play.

Zach Bausch then hit a RBI double,
and Richard Garland was able to score
off of another Mounties error.

When the inning was ﬁnally over,
there had been four runs, off of only three
hits, and three errors.

One run in each of the next two
innings put the game away for good.

Tim Livingston was able to pick up
his third win, giving up only two runs over
ﬁve innings and with only four strikeouts
during the game.

The Generals have 'started this
season off well with an 8-2 record and
hope to keep the momentum going.

The Generals’ next game is
Wednesday.

ByMashdRde
wwommnoa

This year’s intramural basketball
season started up last week. Basketball
has long been one of the most exciting
intramural events‘ of the year with all
13 fraternities competing, along with
teams from Beta, Faculty, SAO, and
three law teams.

The format of the season has
changed a lot from last year and has
extended the regular season to nine
games compared to last year’s five.
Teams have been divided up into two
brackets with the top eight of each
making the playoffs. The change has
been welcomed with open arms from
players.

While the championship is up for
grabs amongst a few teams, most teams
will just be playing for fun and points
in the season IM rankings.

In bracket A, the heavy favorite
this year is faculty, who are loaded with
ex-college basketball players including
Ryan Kadlubowski, who will provide
strong inside play. The rnen’s Varsity
Bastketball head coach, Adam
Hutchison, is also playing and provides

outside. Faculty had two very decisive
wins last week over SAE and Law.
Odds of winning: 2-1
’ Oneiteam that may provide an
upset over Faculty is KA. Four of KA’s
starting five (Mark Franceski, Ryan
Flynn, Max Barrett and Wes McAdams)
used to play Varsity Basketball for the
Generals. The team is very quick and
dominates inside play. Two wins this
week makes their odds of winning 4-1.
In Bracket 13, FIJI should make
the Final Four with Patrick Neuman,
Wes Kimrnel, and Chris Carainore.
Neuman also used to play for the
Generals and is able to ‘score not only

IM Basketbalj. begins

Faculty clear favorite in playoﬁs

a very pure shot, especially from the »

Kesysass/smapnozogeapnas

in the paint, but also step back past the
arc and drain the three. Kimmel and
Caramore will also provide a powerful
scoring force. Odds of winning: 4-1.

Phi Delt should atso arise out of
Bracket B into the Final Four. Coleman
Lyons and Palmer Dobbs also used to
play Varsity Basketball and will provide
the strongest guard playin the whole {M
league. Odds of Winning: 8-1.»

There are a few teams, however,
that might become bracket busters and
could end up stealing a spot from the
four favorites. In bracket B, both Beta
and PIKA have legitimate chances of
cracking the Final Four.

Beta will be led by Ryan “Flay”
Valeri and Matt Connolly. Fiav is a
slasher who will be tough to stop
offensively. Connelly has a very
consistent shot, especially from the
outside and will provide a good option
for a driving Valeii. . '

PIKA is led by AI. Manett who
can score from anywhere on the court.
Pierce and Fassio provide a lot of size
inside, and Pierce is able to step outside
the are and spread the defense. ‘Despite
a loss lastweek, PIKA has a chance to
squeak into the Final Four.

BracketA will be a little tougher .
to crack. The Law II and Law 311 teams
are the only ones that might be able to
talcehome a top two seed, but don’t hold _
your breath. .

Last season was full of upsets and
last second buzzer boaters including a
Lambda upset over Sigma Chi by a last
second three and an even more
impressive‘40 foot buzzer beater by Kyle
Wischer to advance Sigma Chi to the
Final Four over Law 111. 0

This season should be just as .
exciting with the new format and expect
to see physical play and some good
basketball. X 0 ' 1

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for
group discounts. information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or wvwv.ststrave|.com.

Women’s

£aLstoS

§’CHl'S|l\R}'~l\/ATKN

Freshman midfielder Elizabeth
Northfield (Arnold, Md./Broadneck)
scored off an assist from junior attacker
Becca Christoffersen (Vienna, Va./Jarnes
Madison) with 1:40 remaining to lift 11th-
ranked St. Mary’s to an 8-7 win over 20th-
ranked Washington and Lee in women’s
lacrosse action on Saturday afternoon at
Watt Field.

The Generals (0-1) led 7-6 with
8:49 remaining after an unassisted tally by
sophomore midﬁelder Mallory Lobisser
(Bainbridge Island, Wash./Lakeside).
However, the Seahawks tied the game just
1:31 later as junior midfielder Allyson
Sarigianis (Bel Air, Md./John Carroll)
scored on a free—position shot and setting
up Christoffersen’s game-winner.

W&L trailed 4-2 at the 29:06 mark
of the second half, but fought back with
three goals in a span of 2:26 to assume a
5-4 lead with 20:52 remaining. St. Mary’s

t. Marys

retaliated with a pair of goals at the 11:04
and 10:38 marks to reassume the lead,
before a pair of W&L goals gave the
Generals the lead entering the Seahawks
decisive run.

V W&L was led by senior midfielder
Kristen Brown (Baltimore, Md./
Catonsville) and sophomore attacker
Avery Lovejoy (Old Greenwich, Conn./
Greenwich) who scored two goals each.
Freshman Sarah Tilbor (West Simsbury,
Conn./Simsbury) stopped seven shots in
her first career game in goal.

Senior attacker Karli Libertini
(Baltimore, Md./Catonsville) led St.
Mary’s (1-0) with three goals. Sarigianis
and senior defender Jenn Nordling
(Sykesville, Md./South Carroll) both
notched two goals, while Christoffersen
added a pair of assists. Sophomore Melissa
Puzak (Arnold, Md./Broadneck) stopped
nine shots in goal. ,

Washington and Lee returns t
action on Wednesday as it travels to
Lynchburg College for a 4:00 pm contest.

 

Jon Rogers / Stat! Photographer

Despileahadeffon,WashingtonandLeeWomen’sLAXlosttoStMarys

Men’s LAX wins ﬁrst game
Defeats Washington College in Md.

Sporlsnelease

S7U¥l'SI\F3WlATU\!

Washington and Lee sophomore
goalie Chris Lalli (Cranbury, N.J./
Princeton) recorded 20 saves in leading
the eighth-ranked Generals to a 7-6 win
over ﬁfth—ranked Washington College in

, men’s lacrosse action on Saturday

afternoon in Chestertown, Md.

W&L (1-0) jumped out to a 6-2
halftime lead on the strength of two goals
and two assists from freshman attackman
Ned Rider (Manakin-Sabot, Va./
Collegiate) and a goal and an assist from
senior attackman Gavin Molinelli
(Northport, N.Y./Northport).

The Shoremen (0-1) scored a pair
of goals in the third period to climb to

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

within 6-4 heading into the fourth period,
but W&L senior midfielder Pat Collins
(Marshfield, Mass./Marshﬁeld) scored an
unassisted tally at the 11:51 mark to give

the Generals a three-goal cushion.»

Washington ﬁred 12 shots at the Generals’
goal in the ﬁnal period, but Lalli stopped
10 of them in preserving the one-goal
victory.

Rider led W&L with two goals and
two assists, while Collins tallied two goals
and one assist. Molinelli added one goal
and one helper.

Steven Spivey led the Shoremen
with one goal and three assists, while
Andrew Ostrusky notched a pair of goals.

Washington and Lee returns to
action on Saturday as it hosts sixth-ranked
Gettysburg for a 1:00 pm contest.

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&life

 

MG‘DAY,FEBFIUAHY 285,215

ByEniyEdwads

AHTS&lJFE EDITOR

I do believe I have seen it all. My
latest adventure in the Big Apple proved
that. V

In case you have been on Mars for
the past two weeks or so, you have seen
the front page of the New York Times or
the lead story on the 11 o’clock news.
And it has been orange... ehem, saffron.
Don’t get me wrong or anything. I would
like to think I bleed orange from
Tennessee pride. But Christo and Jeanne-
Claude went too far this time.

Late one night over Feb break, my
best friend and I were driving down Fifth
Avenue and noticed a ghastly array of
colored posts all over our beloved Central
Park.

My friend remarked, “They must
be getting ready for Fashion Week or
something.” It was the “or something.”

The next morning, we looked out
of our hotel room window overlooking
the Park, and there it was. The Gates, as
the Concierge told us. The Gates were

everywhere. A big, orange display of
modern art.

Personally, I think it looked like
the ﬂag corps of Tennessee’s marching
band at one of their football games. But
for heaven’s sake, dismiss the Gates as
an eyesore and you’re bound to get an
earful from art-lovers. I made that
mistake at the MoMA and thought that
the Chanel-clad socialite beside me in
the gallery was going to chop off my
head.

The Gates spread for 23 miles
throughout the trails of Central Park. I
think that they should have changed
Tavern on the Green’s name to “Tavem
on the Orange” until the exhibit closed
on the 27th. It would have made much
more sense. ‘

I tried to be open-minded about
this display of creativity. Really, I did. I
thought of the endorphins that my body
released when I looked at the mass of
orange. I thought of the painstaking work
that went into The Gates’ construction.
Then I thought about the cost.

Millions of dollars. 26 to be exact.
The doorman at the Ritz—Carlton told me

Too bad Jeanne—Claude looked better in
orange than the Park did.

  Tennessee gir reﬂects on The ates

it took over 25 years for Christo and his
wife to raise the money. To celebrate the
occasion, “Mrs. Christo” died her hair to
match her husband’s artwork. Too bad
she looked better in orange than the Park
did.

I would like to think I have a great
appreciation for art. I could spend hours
upon hours at the Musee d’Orsay or
London’s National Gallery. I have a
collection of art history books. But why
did Christo have to go so overboard? And
who in their right mind would have
donated to an art exhibit that consists of

Need a break? T ry- The Buena Vista

ByElyseN|oody

BEYCI\Dl~O.LYVi/(ID

Sometimes, winter just starts to
drag on. After a 90 degree February
Break, the snowstorm last week was
almost too much for me to handle.
Instead of buying myself a one-way ticket
back to Nicaragua, I decided to take a less
drastic stance against the miserable
conditions here in Lex.

In honor of the passing of Hunter
S. Thompson (his fabulous novel The
Rum Diaries is set nearby in Puerto Rico)
and warmer weather elsewhere, I rented
The Buena Vista Social Club. Everything
is sunnier and more colorful in Cuba. As
I hoped, it made me miss tropical
weather, but it made me feel just a little
bit better.

For those of you who love The Last
Waltz (it is a staple on car trips in my
family), The Buena Vista Social Club is
a similar documentary of the last concert
series of a group of legendary Cuban
musicians. These musicians were
brought together by Ry Cooder, a very
talented American recording artist; his
album Paradise and Lunch is definitely

worth checking out.

After recording a phenomenally
successful album with contributors such
as Ibrahim Ferrer, Ruben Gonzalez,
Manuel “Puntillita” Licea, Pio Leyva,
Barbarito Torres, Compay Segundo and
Omara Portuondo in 1997, Cooder
returned to Havana with his son Joachim
in 1998 to compile a documentary of the
album’s production.

Along with footage from studio
recordings, director Wim Wenders
combines musicians’ accounts of their
lives with clips of concerts at La Carre
in Amsterdam and Carnegie Hall in New
York to capture the spirit of the Cuban
music scene.

The Buena Vista Social Club is a
fascinating insight into the world of
traditional Cuban music, tinged with
hints of the repercussions of Fidel
Castro’s dictatorship of life in Cuba.

Tragically, many of these figures
were forgotten for over a decade.
Ibrahim Ferrer found work shining
shoes, and Ruben Gonzalez, who is quite
possibly one of the most inspired and
talented pianists of our time, lacked
access to a piano for several years before

Series bliss.

W8: L Bookstore Presents. .
Student Book of the Week

A weekly sure at tliooltstore and the Rina-Tum PM

To celebrate the beginning of Spring Training, this week's book is
Faithful, a fiowingiy detailed account of the historic 2004 Red Sox
season written by two of today’s most popular fiction writers (and
both huge Sox fans) Stephen King and Stewart O’Nan. The book
chronicles every day, from Spring Training to the post»Worid~

“Faithful is funny, smart and masterfully weii-written. This
combination of events you couidrft make up -- and great writers
who love the game, make this book a must for all readers."

~ Publisher's Weekly ‘

A’ great gift for yourself or any basebali fan!

Regularpric:-I $26.00
'l’|i.is xx-‘eck: $22.00

the album was produced.

The soundtrack captures these
musicians’ devotion to their craft and the
joy with which they approach their work.
This joy is contagious——the soundtrack
is perfect for dancing.

One aspect of the movie that I
found remarkable is the accessibility of
the musicians. The phenomenon of
celebrity is something that has always
fascinated me; as Walker Percy describes
in The Moviegoer, we tend to place movie
stars and musicians on another plane,
elevating them and their experiences
above our own.

These musicians walk down the
streets of Havana just like everyone else
and they approach their work with a sense
devotion and humility that is astonishing.

At one point, Ibrahim Ferrer offers
a hand to two men who are moving
furniture onto a truck while he recounts
his experiences as a boy outside Havana.
Another memqrable scene shows Ruben
Gonzalez playing the piano for a group
of young ballerinas who are jumping up
and down, laughing to the music.

In addition to the characters’
charisma, the music is absolutely

photo conesy oi hristojean neclaudanet

ﬂnGatesbﬁghhemddaiwsudbforsane,whibou1ersﬁuignﬂwasaIeyosore.

PVC pipe and cloth? Because that’s what
it is. 7500-ish orange shower curtains
that probably smell like mildew as a result
of the rain that fell on Valentine’s Day.
If given enough time, I could think of 26
million better ways to spend 26 million
dollars.

I was told that the exhibit would
bring in over 80 million dollars in
revenue to the City. Did you make your
contribution? Were you one of the lucky
ones to see this breathtaking display? If
not, be sure to study it in updated art
history books.

Social Club

phenomenal. I am buying the soundtrack
immediately. Ibrahim Ferrer has a
singular voice which ﬂoats over the
instruments with effortless richness and
dexterity. Also, he is a fabulous dancer
for an octogenarian; if this man can still
meringue, anyone can. His duet with
Omara Portuondo, “Veinte Anos,” has to
be one of the sexiest songs I’ve ever
heard.

The movie celebrates Cuban
music, and it presents it in such a way
that will have you dancing and laughing
along with the musicians. It simply
reflects their attitude towards music: the
movie captures their passion and
liveliness—their love of life and art.

In The Buena Vista Social Club,
Wim Wenders familiarizes his audiences
with the lives of a group of legendary
Cuban musicians, and, in doing so, he
makes the triumph of their recognition
toward the end of the 1990s an even
greater cause for celebrating their
achievements.

It is the perfect movie for a cold
and boring day, and the music will have
you dancing until Spring Term finally gets
here.

Chi-O and PIKA freshmen
provide entertainment for
local retirement home

BySoniaSiumdTyel-Iaeberie
$ 

Though many freshman girls were
anticipating who their big sister may be
and numerous guys were struggling
through the ﬁnal (and best?) few weeks
of pledgeship, the freshman classes of Pi
Kappa Alpha and Chi Omega somehow
managed to ﬁnd time to add a little variety
to some local elders’ lives. The
“Valentine’s Day Dance” was recently
held at Kendal, a local retirement home,
and the aforementioned pledge classes
were the guests of honor.

“The Valentine’s Dance at Kendal
is a lot of fun, and really makes the
residents happy,” said Melissa Clarke, Chi
Omega’s pledge educator. “It was just a
really fun way to do some community
service” added Lana Kang.

Card exchanges let each side know
just how happy the other was to be there.
“They were really excited about the
Valentine’s cards; one woman came up to
me several times thanking me for mine,”
said Kang. Such small acts of kindness on
the part of the Washington and Lee
students surely meant a great deal to the
residents, who probably missed earlier
Valentine’s days when they could really
cut the rug. But not all had’ been lost

apparently. Noted Clarke, “[Those in
attendance] performed several dances- the
Electric Slide, the Chicken Dance, and the
ever popular YMCA, and had a ‘dance
off.”’ Clarke however did not report who
was victorious in the dance-off, leaving
this observer only to think that Kendal
deﬁnitely brought its A game. Could the
residents have pulled off an upset or was
it simply a case of experience conquering
youth?

Either way, the satisfaction of the
evening was shared by both sides. Ms.
Kang explained, “It also made me feel
really good because the residents were
telling us that they never had events like
this and that they really appreciated our

efforts and that they wished they would

do more things like this.”

Commendations are deﬁnitely in
line for Chi-O and PIKA. When most of
us were probably stressing over rnidterrns,
they took the time to give back to an often
neglected community. Though the cliche
“giving back to the community” deﬁnitely
deserves its title, this is just what the two
organizations did. We salute the
organizations for letting those in
Lexington know, and even reminding a
few of us on campus, just how great a
resource the Washington and Lee student
body can be in “giving back.”

  

Prep offers
readers
insight into
boarding  
school life

ByNa:iaPii1z
STAFFWHTEH

If you’re looking for an
interesting and quick read, try Prep by
Curtis Sittenfeld. Though the title
suggests a superficial fashion
statement, the book is a poignant and
vivid exploration of the teenage years.

The main character, Lee, is a girl
who doesn’t quite ﬁt in at the private
boarding school she attends. Drawn to
Ault by the idea of academic
challenge, but mostly by the glossy
pictures of the students she sees in the
catalogue, she arrives to ﬁnd out its
not all she expected.

The book holds special interest
for readers who went to boarding
school. Ault, although the name has
been changed, is actually a real place.
Sittenfeld herself is a graduate of
Groton School.

Though she has changed the
name, she hasn’t changed much else
about the school. The speciﬁcity of
detail is staggering in this work; for
alumna, the force of the memories
almost distracts from the plot. But
even more compelling is Sittenfeld’s
understanding of the teenage psyche.

Lee feels isolated at Ault, partly
because she receives ﬁnancial aid, but
mostly because her classes are so
rigorous that she is only a mediocre
student. Lee struggles to ﬁt in amongst
students she perceives as completely
different from her, not only because
they come from wealthier families, but
because their academic success seems
effortless to her. Lee struggles in
everything, mostly due to her inability
to open up to anyone.

Consequently, Lee’s real
tragedy is that she lets these facts get
in the way of her enjoyment of both
the wonderful resources the school has
to offer and the friendships she could
be making.

When~Lee finally begins a
relationship with a boy she really
loves, she ruins it for herself by
projecting her low self—image onto
him. The novel is touching and almost
painful to read because anyone who
has been through the adolescent years
can identify with Lee’s inner
absorption and outer, protective
stances.

The story deals with the
tendency of adolescents to embrace
destructive self-images instead of
merely opening up and reaching out
to each other.

Lately, novels about
adolescence and girlhood have
become so bad and so meaningless
that they even encourage destructive
behavior. I’m thinking about works
like Gossip Girls and Pledged.
Curtis Sittenfeld’s novel is a
triumph, not only because the writing
is good, but because her depictions
of young people are accurate and
informative.

Any adult reading this novel can
better understand the teenage psyche
at its most confusing, and adolescents
can both empathize and learn from
example.

‘9'vb»V4£&TAtR%ZWX1b¥&¢JW“ﬂv2Ul0Yﬂh@iWnvM§¢ﬁ%’<NNWw.N0»%¥
~a»»s»wo-z cox-«»a.»»u

mmzsx z««wwi..«y*»~tau onnonatmw ¢l.mu<Inu«.aa»»n-

   

Ci.I¥‘i2i$§ siti':e.nfei..&

 

5»

i.

 

    
 
  
    
 
   
  
    

MONDAY, FEBRUARY28,2m5 THE RING-TUM PH| ' 5

TV" Paid Advertisement by Contact

Contact Presents Ralph Nader and
     more...

Contact is the student-run committee that brings speakers to campus. Don’t miss
these upcoming speeches!

A

 

I at

John Douglas

 Nader March 17'“, Commons Theater, 7:30 pm
h . John Dou Ias is a former FBI criminal profiler and
May 5 ’ Lee Chapel’ 7'30 pm was the mgdel tor the Scott Glenn character in The
Rail?“ Nader i3 e C0nSUrner eCiV0eeie, ieWYera Silence of the Lambs. He has hunted some of the
euinera and iW0'iirne Preeideniiai CanCiiCia’Ie- C0rne most notorious and sadistic criminals of our time:
near nirn Speak ebeui nie Peiiiieei ideei09Y end the Trailside Killer in San Francisco, the Atlanta
VieWS ebeui eerpereie Arneriee and Our Current child murderer, the Tylenol poisoner, the man who
Peiiiieei SYeiern On Me)’ 5"‘- hunted prostitutes for sport in the woods of Alaska,

and Seattle’s Green River killer, the case that nearly
ended his own life.

  Stephen . Duncan

  H '
March 17"’, Commons Theater, 7:30pm ans Florine

      
      
 

Stephen M. Duncan is the Director of the Institute Apr” 19m’ Commons Theater’ 7'30 pm _
fer Herneiend SeeUriiY Studies at The Naiienai Hans Florine won the first 16 speed climbing events
Defense University in F0ri iViCNair, Washington, that he entered. He has been the U.S. National

 
 

Xi D.C. He is/the author Of A War Of a Different Kind: Speed Climbing Champion eight times in the past

vs Military F0rCe and America? Search for HOITIG/and fifteen years, won the first World Speed Climbing

Security. Come here him speak about the aftermath Championship in 1991, and won gold in speed at
of September 11”‘ and how homeland security the first three ESPN X-Games. Come climb with
i policies have changed since that time. Florine and hear his story on April 19th_

 
      
      
     
      

 

 

6 0 THERNG-TUMPHI

IIKlDAY,F$RIJARY28,2(X5

IIIIIIIIIIIIS

 

STAFF EDITORIAL

Allow frats
to Open
Hell Week

Despite University efforts to
ensure a safe pledgeship, or new
member education period, for freshmen
this year, The Ring-tum Phi remains
concerned about Hell Week.

While no one advocates “hazing”
we are realistic enough to know that
pledges (new members?) will be
engaging in “bonding” activities this
week. We just want the danger and
risks to be minimized.

It’s not called Hell Week for
nothing, and listening to conversations
in the Commons (or a frat house, or
anywhere that frat boys are gathered)
will prove that plans for Hell Week are
alive and well, and have changed
dramatically in the last two years.

Open Hell Week. Two years ago
Dean Howison played basketball with
pledges. A pledge made ham
sandwiches outside Leybum. There
was a homeless guy outside the coop
and a kissing booth at the srat bridge.
These were all harmless and humorous
activities. Best of all, these harmless
activities consumed the vast majority
of the pledges’ time during Hell Week.
Because they were out making fools of
themselves playing army men in the D-
hall and on the front lawn, they could
not be in the country doing God—knows—
what.

There are different degrees of
hazing. Forcing pledges to drink,
branding them, and beating are all
horrible examples of hazing Forcing
guys to rap outside of the coop is a
much less strenuous and dangerous
form of hazing, if it is hazing at all.

An open Hell Week, in which we
acknowledge the fraternity activities,
would go a long way to ensuring safety.

UPS & DOWNS

Editors—in-Chief Erin and Chris give
you their take on what rose and fell
this week at W&L and around the
world. I

Ocwseouls.
The BTK serial killer is a Cub Scout
leader. Enough said.

0 Dessertmdalcohol
hduslries.

It’s Lent. All those pious Catholics

and Episcopalians are abstaining.

OFeb. Break

Though it’s difficult explaining to
people that we get a week off for
Washington’s birthday, Feb break is
definitely one of the most enjoyable
aspects of W&L.

Ooreek Life

(see front page story). Filling your
house with upperclassmen? Country
parties will be no more.

Onegistration

They still haven’t taken our advice
about registering for sections. They
(the MAN) need to listen to us. We're
wise.

0Lexington

Some weekends, it’s just a good idea
to hop in the car and drive to a real
college town. I recommend
Charlottesville.

0Montiee||o Road

So good they’re worth 4 hours of
driving in one weekend (or maybe
some of us just need to get a life).
Kudos to SAE for bringing them here
March 5.

 Committee

Yay, Ralph Nader. We’ve actually
heard of him.

Osororities

Nothing says love like all the goodies
srat girls give to their littles during
Little Sis week.

0Don Tequilas
Cheap margaritas on Wednesday
nights. That’s all I have to say.

Gay marriage

ban bad

forVA

Rights should be given, not take away

ByAmeF1'1el
THEeIGI=IcTu=IE

I love Virginia. I was born in
Richmond (though lived in Texas most of
my life) and think it is a beautiful place.
But, at the moment, I’m annoyed with the
state that I currently call home.

It has finally happened. It won’t
enter the state constitution unless it is
ratified by voters in the 2006 general
election, but a proposed constitutional
amendment to ban gay marriage recently
won near landslide approval in the General
Assembly, 79-17 in the House of
Delegates and 30-10 in the Senate.

So, even though gay marriage in the
state is already illegal, they want to make
it so that gay marriage could never be
legalized by the courts without yet another
amendment to the constitution.

What happened to letting things
change with the times? Why must a state
actively work to restrict the rights of a
group of its citizens? Which leads me to
my greatest question, something that has
confused me for years: what are people
so afraid of? For the gay marriage. ban
clearly relates to fear.

I understand that many people in the
United States, probably the majority, are
against gay marriage. Often, this has a
religious basis, for I hear again and again
that God ordained marriage to be between
“one man and one woman.”

From watching the news, you’d
think it must be one of George W. Bush’s
favorite phrases. Yet, under the separation
of church and state, religious conviction
should have nothing to do with legislation.

Everyone is free to their opinion.
You do not have to believe that marriage
between same—sex partners should be
legalized.

But the idea of a constitutional
amendment is abhorrent to me. Gay
couples probably take it as a slap in the

face, and with good reason. It is saying
that how they wish to live their life is so
aberrant and dangerous that their legally
recognized union must be prevented at all
costs.

So what is so dangerous about the
idea of two people that love each other
wanting to make a lifelong commitment
that is granted the same rights and
amenities as heterosexual married
couples?

Try as I might, I cannot see the
threat. Some cite lofty, vague ideas like it
endangering family values or making the
very institution of matrimony vulnerable.
But as James Carville recognized in his
Mock Convention Speech last year on our
campus, no threat is posed to his or any
other strong marriage by gays being
allowed to marry. Honestly, I cannot even
see the connection.

And as for family values, I don’t
know of any studies that have conclusively
(or even remotely) shown that children of
gay parents are in any way harmed. Quite
to the contrary, they are no less likely to
be heterosexually-oriented but are
benefited by less rigid expectations of
gender roles.

And while there are plenty of
children of heterosexual couples who are
parented disinterestedly, since homosexual
couples must go to special lengths to have
or receive a child, it is likely they will be
concerned and well-educated parents.

I can only hope that the voters will
put their biases aside and refuse to support
such an amendment. If the day is going to
come when same sex couples are allowed
to marry, then it should be allowed to
progress to that point naturally.

Exploited classes in our country
have enough working against them already
without the addition of insurmountable
obstacles.

Our country should be going.

forward, not backwards. Rights should be
given, not taken away!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDrrOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR

ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS 8. LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

QDPY EDITORS

‘ I

ROHAN POOJARA

ﬂIeFiiIg-nmPr1lspIbistIedMax1aysd.mgIheuIdeIgIad.etesdndyear
atWas|1'tIgIDrIandLeeUrIiveIsIly,L.e)ciI'IgtorI,\fIIg7'Iia
The!-‘mg-am’ Pr1”IsanIerTIberoﬂl*IePubk2rIoI1s' ' BoaId,butisotheIwise'ndependent


AIstbnIissiorIsmustbeemaIIed1ophI@IMu.eduorIIIItIeUniversityCentermai3oxby5p.m.
FridaytoappearinIheIoI|OwirIgI/IIeeI<‘se<:i1I'oIT.
7'heRhg-a.mPhireservesIhe Ii_ghttoecitsLbn1i$iorIsforoorItentarIdIerIgth.
LetteI'saI"IdoOIuImsdoI1Otr1eoessariyreﬂed1heopirIionOI
Adverﬁsingdoesnt1reﬂecttheopinimsofTheRhg-anIPfioritsstaII.
lltsriawspaperobseweswnanoarndefriﬁasdﬂadaridobsoaity.

TheFhg-umPhI'
Universitycommors Room.341
Wash'ngtona'IdLeeUriveIsity

Lex'ngon,VIrg‘1‘a24450
Telephone: (540)458406O
 Fax (540)458»4059
Enei:phI'@vvIIredI
Stbso-‘prion ra1e$40

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN Ll

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

W&L is the
best school in
the country

Pickle challenges anyone to prove
that any other school is better

ByTrentPick|e
PEXLEIIMN

Last weekend, some friends and
I took a trip all around Virginia and
North Carolina. During our tour, we
visited Mary Baldwin College,
University of Richmond, College of
William and Mary, North Carolina
State University, Elon University,
UNC-Chapel Hill, UNC—Greensboro,
and UNC-High Point. All of these
schools are different and unique in
there own way.

But in my humble opinion, what
I took from this trip, was an
appreciation for how blessed I am to
go to Washington and Lee University.

On Friday afternoon, our first
stop was Mary Baldwin. What struck
us the most odd was that it was Friday
afternoon and there was almost no one
outside! We went through the center
of campus and only saw one group of
girls.

They seemed pretty cool, but it
was ﬁve o’clock (cocktail hour) on a
warm, sunny Friday, and everyone else
was in their dorms or in the library!
Their environment is such that it
encourages good academics, but
discourages an active, open
community.

After driving and some dinner,
we arrived at the University of
Richmond at about 10:00. We drove
around the campus, which isn’t very
big, for a long time until we finally
found what resembled a party.

It was bunch of senior sorority
girls sitting in one girl’s dorm room.
They were very sociable and invited us
right in, but we could not help but
wonder why it was Friday and no one
was outside. As we were getting ready
to leave, we thanked them and asked,
“Are there any big parties going on
tonight?” They laughed and said
almost all of there parties are like.this,
ten to twenty people, with either almost
all girls or almosx all guys.

The student body lacks a school-
wide community, so they divide
themselves into tiny clicks and limit
themselves to that one group of friends.

At William and Mary, there was
one big party. It had potential to be a
good time, but university security was
everywhere because fraternities and
sororities don’t have houses; they just
live near each other in the dorms! The
party was so 'regimented that it was

almost impossible to have any fun. I
actually met one guy who asked me,
“Why would you guys visit this school.
It sucks! All the university lets us do
is study.”

Granted, they were all smart, but
what is the point of being smart if you
are a part of a closed community, which
does not understand how to share ideas
in an open and productive forum.

At NC State and UNC—Chapel
Hill, it was the exact opposite. At both
schools, on Saturday afternoon,
everyone was out and about. The
people seemed cool and interesting.

But neither school had a sense
of community. My friends say that they
can walk around their giant campuses
all day and not see anyone they know.

We reached Elon on Saturday
night. From my experience, it would
be the closest school socially to W&L.
The student body is smaller and with
more of a sense of community. They
have active social lives, a lot of which
stems from Greek organizations.

But to them, academics are a
joke. Something they do after tl1ey’re
done partying if they feel like it.

On Saturday night, 1 saw my
greatest fear of a college experienced
realized. At UNC-Greensboro and
UNC-High Point, everyone was in their
dorms. The boys were in their
fraternity houses or donns, and the girls
were in their sorority houses or dorms.
And no one really seemed like they
were having fun being at school. These
should be the best years of our lives,
and they are wasting their time in dorm
rooms!

This trip reminds me how
blessed I am to have the privilege to
go to Washington and Lee. We have a
community which is tight-knit and
supportive of each other, but also open
to new people, experiences, and ideas.
Our student body maintains a balance
which is unprecedented at other
schools.

We work hard in and out of class;
we are gifted athletically and
artistically; we conduct ourselves with
honor; and we know how to relax and
be sociable. This combination of
community, individual achievement,
and fun leads me to believe that
Washington and Lee University is the
best institution for higher learning in
thecountry.

And I challenge anyone to try to
prove me wrong.

‘ On Saturday night, I saw my greatest
fear of a college experienced realized. At
UNC—Greensboro and UNC-High Point,
everyone was in their dorms. The boys
were in their fraternity houses or dorms,
and the girls were in their sorority
houses or dorms. And no one really
seemed like they were having ﬁin being

at school.

Opinionated? Writeforthe Pm.

TheRing-tumPhiis lookingforne-wOpinionswriters.
CallexIIension4060oremailandeIsonc@w|u.edu

wrIIeaboutpoIiIics,sociaIissues,w&LorooIIegeIIIE

.74

1

3

X

 

   
   
   
  
   
   

  

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY28, 2135

“If you want to work professionally, you haveto

be able to drop the accent when it’s required.” ‘

— QUOTE OF THE WEEK|VIa1:'nChi|dets,who’s|eatirg apmjectI1oteachnla|Appalachian|<idsto|osethei'aeoer1ts.

THE RINGTUM PHI 0 7

US should lift ban
on drug imports

Leaders have not delivered on promises to reduce the
costs of prescription drugs over the past ﬁve years

ByCdeyAnderson

OPlNO\SE|3|TO4

Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana,
a moderate Democrat who continues to be
elected in a heavily Republican state,
spoke out last week against the Federal ban
on importation of Canadian prescription
drugs, an issue which his largely
conservative state supports him on.

The Federal government “has had
the ability to lower the prescription drug
cost for every person in America by as
much as 50 percent. In five years, they’ve
not delivered. Since they continue to sit
on the sidelines, states have no choice but
to do it for themselves,” he said.

The governor has a serious point.
As most Americans (and certainly all
insurance companies) know, costs for
prescription drugs have gone through the
roof in recent years, mostly due to
protectionist policies of American drug
developers and manufacturers.

The Bush administration has
continued this policy, even to the point of
actually banning the importation of
prescription drugs from abroad. The claim
is made that prescription drugs imported
from Canada, for instance, are unsafe, a

‘ gentle slap in the face of Canada’s

equivalent of the FDA. The implication
made by the administration is that only
drugs approved by America’s experts are
truly safe. A
Of course, this is nonsense; an equal
or greater proportion of drugs
manufactured in foreign lands (especially
quasi-socialist countries like Canada) are

“Congress ’s impartial budget experts have re-
peatedly tried to make their voices heard over
the political clamor, saying that not only are
Canadian drugs safe, legalization of their impor-
tation would have the net eﬁfect of cutting U.S.
prescription drug prices roughly in half”
 

completely safe compared to the same
proportion in America. Of course, this
quasi-socialist system has some eerie
disadvantages, and I do not want America
to adopt it, I am just noting that we should
probably not question the safety of such
drugs.

And indeed, we do not. Congress’s
impartial budget experts have repeatedly
tried to make their voices heard over the
political clamor, saying that not only are
Canadian drugs safe, legalization of their
importation would have the net effect of
cutting U.S. prescription drug prices
roughly in half. This legalization would
be a major break for U.S. citizens in need
of them, particularly our senior citizens,
who are having a rough time with social
security as it is.

The real issue here, of course, is the
proﬁt margin of U.S. drug companies, who
have a very strong lobbying presence in
Washington. Neither Congress nor the
White House has seen ﬁt to alter policy,
and doubtless many of importation’s
greatest opponents have seen healthy
contributions from domestic drug
company lobbies.

Yet, while it is important to
acknowledge that this semi-patronage
system has its place, it is not working for
us on this issue. As it is, northern states
are actually bussing citizens across the
border for the express purpose of
purchasing prescription drugs at a price
two-thirds lower than U.S. drugs.

This is abysmally wasteful and
inefficient- state tax money is going
straight from earners’ pockets to a policy
which beneﬁts mostly seniors, becoming
in effect a supplementary social security
tax. For states that do not share a border
with Canada, the problem is even worse.

But all this waste and these
needlessly high prices could be solved
with the stroke of a pen. It would cost
nothing to taxpayers to legalize
importation of prescription drugs and, in
fact, it would probably end up saving them
money.

Hospital maintenance costs would
go down, working seniors would be more
easily able to remain healthy and thus
productive, and if you yourself needed to
go to the local pharmacy to pick up
something your doctor prescribed, it
would be a permanent 50% off sale.

Promoting BRAVE Day of
Beauty and fashion show

Bycaissastipley

INTI-E|IO\S

This is the time when I shamelessly
get to use my column for self-promotion.
Ok, maybe it’s not exactly self-promotion,
but it is the promotion of something that
I’m involved in. And now for the
promoting. . .

Just in case you haven’t seen the
posters that are all over campus, Saturday,
March 5”‘ is the BRAVE Day of Beauty,
followed by the black-tie fashion show.
This project has been a collaboration of
many undergrad students, law students and
members of our community.

I have truly been surprised by how

many people have donated their time and
money to this project. BRAVE is a. local
organization which is working in
collaboration with Washington and Lee
and W&L Law to organize the two events.
There are students working on committees
for every part of the day of beauty, which
includes eyerything from fitness sessions
to spa-type treatments and will be held at
the sorority houses.

The black tie fashion show will be
held in Evan’s dining hall. Stores in
Charloitesville, Staunton, and Lexington
have all donated the clothes. Lexington’s
donors are Papagallos, Pumpkinseeds,
Alvin Dennis, Intimate U and Sunday’s
Child.

I really encourage everyone from
Washington and Lee and the community
to attend these events. The proceeds go to
ending domestic violence in our
community, so not only will you get to
have fun, but you’ll also be able to help
and contribute.

After all the work that organizers,
donors and our fellow students have put
into these events since long before
Christmas, any type of attendance would
be greatly appreciated.

However, the more people that take
a few minutes to attend even a couple of
the events would make all that time
worthwhile and, even better, helping the
community.

BRAVE

(BeaulyRevue
Againstviolent
Encomlers)

fashionshow
6:30to 10:30
Saturday, March 5.

Evans Dining Hall
BlackT|e
$20forarearesidents
$15withaW&LlD
$25l$20atthedoor

yauﬁruzlit.

QTEE1 $1‘

____  We have job opening: for earnp
and progrun
( , hnrloback riding, !uusa'.c.,
and mono).

board and salary provided.

counaalors

nature,

 

(:TE'CII.‘il'?Q'  dam twee.
mmnuizn cam? 3038

Looking war the best auzrnxnar ufymax
life? Easter Seals Virg'.ini,a. can help
We are ccmarrtitted to
helping people with dieabiliﬁee gain
 nm.
dedicated team this murmter at Camp

Easter Seals Virginia in Craig County.

intowmatiaxa. aocmact Deborah. Duet): at
dd.u.erk:@va.eas1errsaaaJa.aaru or at
(540) 86-95280. Visit our website to
learn. howgrcru can make an ditterenee.
wwnIr.va.easoersea1:a:..com:n

Jain our

loadnrs

Ronni,
For

Drinking story.
reﬂects bad  
journa ism

Dear Editor,

Being the former Editor in Chief
of The Trident, I’ve seen more bad
journalism than good journalism from
both publications over the years. But
Whitney Duffy’s news story titled,
“Underage drinking debate continues,”
took bad to a new level. It is the worst
piece of journalism I have seen
published in my four years, and to be
clear, I hold the editors more
responsible than the writer. Aside from
spotty punctuation, an irrelevant lede,
and enough conjunctions to overwhelm
William Faulkner, the article is riddled
with inaccuracies and lazy reporting.

First, the sourcing is lazy. The
article uses a grand total of eight
sources four freshmen (two
anonymous), two sophomores (both
anonymous), an EC representative
(anonymous), and President Burish’s
December 2004 letter. Again, this is a
simple story about underage drinking
and potential honor violations. The
writer was asking for qualitative
comments on lying to get wristbands.
And yet she could only find one EC
member willing to comment
(anonymously) and two people both
female freshmen to comment for the
record. No administration members,
seniors, juniors, males, or for that
matter, members of fraternities those
who supply the alcohol and wrist
bands. So please, instead of ending
with, “President Burish and the
Executive Committee were contacted
to provide comment for this article but
were unable to do so before our
deadline,” just write, “I wrote this three
hours before deadline.” As one who has
written many stories, I can assertively

say these people are not hard to contact.

Second, there exist widespread
inaccuracies. The idea of consequences
related to the Honor System is not
“new” it’s been debated since the
policy’s adoption. Example? The
Trident’s cover story of January 12,
2005, entitled “Honorable
Misrepresentation: Do fake IDs
contradict the Honor System?” Next,
I’m disappointed that the EC member
cited extensively declined to provide
their name not because they are
supposed to be the community’s
paradigm of virtue, but instead so I
can’t target all my energies to ensure
their defeat next month. You see, this
EC member is incompetent and/or a
liar. Check out this quote: “Underage
drinking has been an area that the
Executive Committee has traditionally
found to be irrelevant to the question
of honor.” What!?! I would love to see
Marie Trimble or Thomas Worthy, or
better yet, a senior KA on the record
saying that. Why? Because within this
student generation, the EC made it very
clear they consider underage means of
acquiring alcohol relevant to “the
question of honor.”

Although I’m sure you’ll receive
a letter from the EC informing you of

‘ their position not an inexperienced,

anonymous (and clearly
underclassman) membersopinion it '
doesn’t change that this article did
damage. It should never have been
published, and for this I place full
blame on the editors. The article was
profoundly ﬂawed, and you know it.

Sincerely,
Philip Walotsky ’05

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must
be e-mailed to phi@wlu.edu or in the University

Center mailbox by 5 p.m. Friday to appear in

the following week’s edition.
 

  

It’s not thatfar to
East Lexington. . .
where your FD ﬂowers await!

‘ 603 North Lee Highway
540.463.9841 5 the_jefferson@adelphia.net

wwwthejeffersonfloristandgarden .com

Easy Access oﬂ”Fu'rrs Mill! Road.

_ garden

 

  

8 0 THE RING-TUMPHI

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28,215

  

-There’s nothing like watching a
movie about prostitution with your
parents over Valentine’s Day Weekend.

-The sorority houses were pretty
empty over Feb break...so you may want
to watch where you sit... '

-It’s surprising the number of students
who stayed in Lex - so wild. Hey, I saw
you hanging out in the commons.

.Don’t ever go north for a Feb break
trip. The cold sucked.

-Want to hear a wild and crazy Feb
break story? I got ‘an e-mail from the
school saying that my graduation might
be at VMI! That is the stupidest idea
ever!

-It was nice to eat something I could
recognize over break.

-It was a great week to join the
Colonnade Club!

'Did any other frat have a security
guard glued to their television set?

-1 worked like crazy over Feb
break, does that count?

-I was so glad to get back. I really
missed the quality time I spend with
my pledges.

-Mexico. What more can I say?

INo one else was home. The
craziest thing I decided to do was put
extra marshmallows in my hot
chocolate.

ISpring athletes don’t get a Feb
break. I spent mine running.

-What happens in Atlanta, stays in
Atlanta. ,

-Why is everyone in Daytona Beach
better looking?

Next1irne’stopic:
I-lellweek
suggeslions

Bymashalnuie
F-'OTATOM°N

The other day, someone asked me
why I write a weekly article. I thought
about it for a while, and then I just told
him I didn’t know. They then proceeded
to tell me how they really enjoy my article,
and that I am much funnier as the Potato
Man than as Marshall.

It is not the first time I have heard
this comment. In fact, I hear it quite often.
I have been told “Oh, you’re the Potato
Man. I thought you’d be a lot cooler.”
And “Some of my friends think your
article’s funny, but I just don’t see it, but
you are deﬁnitely funnier in real life.” The
one thing I have yet to hear is, “You are
exactly as funny and cool as Ithought you
would be.”

So I thought about why I spend time
each week going through the writing
process. That’s when I realized I don’t do
it for me. I have much better things I could
be doing with my Sunday morning. . .like
dreaming of Ashley Judd in a pool of
chocolate pudding wrestling an
overweight midget. Rather, I write this
article for the ladies.

And I don’t just mean W&L ladies
either. I also mean W&L moms. As it
turns out, I have quite a following among
student’s moms that receive the Phi by
subscription. .

On Parent’s Weekend, I was
bombarded by moms telling me how much
they like my articles, and how I am so
adorable in person. ~

The look of the freshman girl when
their mom tells me that I am such an
intellectually and physically attractive man
and should start dating her daughter is
worth all the agony that goes into a weekly
column. That added to the irony that me

_and,,t)1<;_freshman have probably already
hooked up, ’a‘na*1r tharrnom knew the

details of that experience she would
probably slap me justbefore pressing
charges.

Speaking of mothers, my own
mother is a main reason that I write this
column. I think she takes solace in the
fact that for at least one day a week I am
up before noon doing something
productive. I

Since my only other extra curricular
activity is known as “frat stuff,” my mom

  This one’s
  for the

girls

likes that I am doing something
beneﬁcial to the school and community.
I won’t tell her that my column is
nowhere close to being beneﬁcial to the
school, and, as for the community of
Rockbridge County, most of them are
illiterate.

This brings me to the last group
of people that I write for: normal
college girls (well normal is a reach,
but let’s just ‘say normal W&L girls).

I recently found out the many
girls on the campus think I am a
chauvinist pig that just likes to bash
women in his articles. I won’t argue.
Luckily for my social life, not all girls
are so keen to the truth. The main
reason I write this article is for the
conversation starter.

Like Adam Sandler says in Big
Daddy, “initiating the conversation is
half the battle.” A typical talk with a
girl I had never met used to sound like
this before I started writing. .

Me: Hey baby, I am having a
tough time fighting off the urge to make
you the happiest woman on earth right
now.

Girl: Get away from me creep.

Me: Ah, come on. Be unique and
different and say yes.

Girl: How about I’ll be unique
and different by kneeing you in the
junk.

Me: Oh that wouldn’t be unique,
the last two girls have done that.

Not too smooth, I know. But
ever since I started writing the column,
the conversation goes like this:

Girl: Don’t I know you from
somewhere?

Me: I doubt it, I don’t like talking
to brunettes usually.

Girl: No‘, I do, aren’t you
Marshall that writes the article? Oh, I
just love your article. You are so hot
rightnow. Do you want to go back to
my place, my friend from Sweden is in
my room right now, and we do
everything together.

Ok, that last part doesn’t usually
happen, its usually something like:

Girl.‘ Aren’t you Marshall that
writes the article. Yourarticle is alright.
Nice meeting you, I should probably get
back to my boyfriend.

But, hey, "it’s a step in the right
direction.

 

Red bull...heroin for the sleep deprived

ByHig1Tmut

Tl-EFIS-Bill/|ﬁN

Throughout all our lives, there
comes a time when we have about 72
hours worth of things that need to be done
and only 24 hours to do them in. Sadly
enough, you can’t get that paper in, take
that exam, do all the super-secret stuff your
pledge master told you to do, and chat up
that cute girl by the Beirut table. In the
words of philosopher and Fisherman
relative (I think he was an in—law. . .distant)
Tupac Shakur, “Like a pimp trying to pull
a nun, ain‘t nuttin happening.” So what
is a young man or woman to do when they
find themselves in such a position? Don’t
try and be a hero, ask for help. And not
the kind of help you get from a loyal friend
who wants to help you get through tough
times. I’m talking about the help you get
from substance abuse. And what exactly
is this miracle drug? It’s not a drug
because the Fisherman believes you have
better ways to blow (pun intended) your
cash. It’s Red Bull, and its here to help
you out. Here is how it applies to you.
If you are a girl, Red Bull is
absolutely clutch in ﬁtting in all of those
things into your day and still being able to
go out that night and not look like a tired
wreck. Even if you don’t have a lot of
things to do that day, a very cool and trendy

Managing looking hot and still getting all of
your things done is a hard job (I know...I can’t
believe how good I look and how much I get
accomplished), and with Red Bull, there is help

TLOLU.

look for W&L girls at the gym is a Red
Bull and of course, pearls (any W&L girl
who wears pearls to the gym and can keep
a straight face is automatically my friend).
Managing looking hot and still getting all
of your things done is a hard job (I
know...I can’t believe how good I look
and how much I get accomplished), and
with Red Bull, there is help now.

If you are a freshman guy, Red Bull
is the only way you are going to make it.
Life sucks right now, and since all of your
friends are going through same thing, they
can’t take too much time to help you out.
Except Red Bull. Red Bull is always there
for you, much like reruns of The Fresh
Prince of Bel—Air. For me, I would have
failed out of this school long ago (last
terrn’s finals to be speciﬁc) if it weren’t
for this miracle drink. Trying to get
through pledgeship without Red Bull is
basically lying to yourself, and that’s an

HV, and you certainly don’t want that to
add to your life. It’s sold right there in the
commons, and it’s cheap so you have no
excuses not too.

If you are an upperclassman guy,
I’m sure there are reasons why you would
need Red Bull. If you ever run out of
creative ways to order your pledges
around. . .drink a Red Bull and something
will come to mind. If you are trying to get
your GPA up so you can get into grad
school, this is your solution.

In conclusion, there are times when
you are exhausted and really can’t make it
on your own (such as the current condition
I am in while writing this). It takes a strong
man to try and make it without any
help...but as I’ve learned, it also takes a
stupid man. So make friends with Red
Bull because two hours of sleep really
sucks unless you also have drank three Red
Bulls.

Palms boycott resumed by Keydets

boycott of the
Palms is back with
a vengeance, dear
readers. We stayed
away for a few
weeks at the
beginning of the
semester, but last
night I thought that
I would give our
1 o v e - h a t e
relationship another try after hearing tales
of new ownership and increased
hospitality. Bad idea. I am a simple man:
give me some music, some drinks and a
chair and I will be perfectly content for
the entire night. Apparently, this is too
much to ask. The Palms’ waitresses are
nice enough (though impossible to track
down) but my contention is with the

The Keydet -

vicious manager. She treats cadets like
dirt and I am sick and tired of it, frankly.
It would be one thing if she was indifferent
or even a little rude when the place is
packed, but her open and unadulterated
hostility has driven me over the edge.

Last night we decided that, after
dinner and good times at the always
enjoyable City Subs, it was time to imbibe
something with a little more bite. To the
Palms we went. I will preface my remarks
by stating that, in the manager’s defense,
we may have been a little loud and some
might say even a little obnoxious. But I
have a newsﬂash for you: it’s a freakin’
BAR. If you don’t want loud and
obnoxious people hanging around, open
a bed and breakfast.

So there we were, singing along to
the jukebox, occasionally tapping the table
with our gold paperweights a bit too

forcefully, when Satan-incarnate showed
up. Mind you, we are paying customers
in a BAR. She informs us in no uncertain
terms that we need to keep it down. Being
the polite gentlemen that we are, we
proceeded to kick it up a notch. Nothing
inappropriate or rude, just typical BAR
behavior. However, our version of
appropriate social conduct and hers
differed greatly.

We were not kicked out or even
asked to leave (because this would infringe
upon their probable 200% proﬁt margin)
but, once again, we were treated with utter
disdain. I felt like the relative that
everyone tolerates at Thanksgiving dinner
and talks about when he leaves. Was I
surprised? No. But you can bet that this
Keydet has stepped into the Palms for the
last time. Well, at least until I decide to
give it one more last chance.

Grown up world a scary place in Lex

Who wants to pick up Veemies over a $3 Miller anyway?

ByKrislineEa'ly

NILKABDC}-EESEGII

I’m a sophomore and that means .

that in a few short, erir long, weeks I have
to officially declare my major. That scares
me to death. It’s one of those “Uh, oh.
There really is a world outside Lexington,
and I really do have to venture out into it
sometime” type of things.

See, I am the female version of Peter
Pan. Petra Pan, perhaps? (Yes, that’s a real
name. And yes, that is some kick ass
alliteration.) I don’t want to grow up. I like
being nineteen.

Sure, it has its disadvantages, but
they are few and far between. Who wants
to go to The Palms anyway? I, for one, do
not want to pick up a VMI over three dollar
bottles of Miller. But that could just be
me...

The grown up world is scary. You
have to pay bills and file tax returns. You
have to worry about things like health
insurance and 40lK’s.

I would rather focus on deciding
whether to pay thirty dollars for a sweater
or springing an extra hundred for a sweater
that looks exactly the same. (We all know
by now where I stand on that one.)

Mono is just an example of the bad
aspects of being a grown up. You didn’t
see Peter Pan swapping spit with the
mermaids, right?

It feels good to feel alive, truly
alive. For the first time in weeks I have
energy. I don’t need twelve hours of sleep
and a cup of coffee to make it through

classes. And I have the energy to shop.

for that sweater!

Finally, I am starting to be myself
again. For a while there, I felt like a
zombie. And with my naturally pale

complexion, I’m sure I looked like one too.
(The little melanin I have bands together
to form freckles rather than evenly
distributing itself. But hey, freckles are
hott. So, that means, by proxy, I am too,
right?)

_ There was one thing I missed most
during my month or so of illness: exercise.
(Bet that surprises you, huh?) Yes, I am
that much of an endorphin junkie. See,
I’ve been working out ﬁve or six times a
week for years. Obviously it’s an essential
part of my life. In fact, when I’m on the
elliptical, I may just be at my most
euphoric state, especially when Eniinem
is on the radio and Law & Order is on the
TV.

I love the Fitness Center. Having to
walk by it on the way to my sorority house

was pure torture. I would look longingly.

through those giant windowpanes at the
svelte runners and the intent bikers, the
testosterone pumped studs lifting weights
and the ﬂexible yoga masters contorted in
strange and embarrassing positions, and I
would wish desperately to switch places
with any one of them.

I was actually jealous. Yes, I know,
I’m a regular green—eyed monster. Or blue
eyed monster. You get the point. My first
trip to the gym last week was seriously one
of the highlights of my life. Of course, I
thought I was going to die for the first ten
minutes, but you know the saying: no pain,
no gain.

I also missed seeing people. I realize
that it’s pretty sad when you list the gym
as a priority over contact with other human
beings, but that’s pretty much the way it
goes. Just kidding. Or am I?

But seriously, I spent way too much
time in my room reading for class,
watching chick ﬂicks and napping. There
were literally times when I found the

interior of Newcomb hall exciting. And
let’s face it, when that happens, you know
you’re in big trouble. I literally went days
without stepping inside the Marketplace,
because it took up too much energy to
maneuver a tray among the congestion. Of
course, I can’t say I suffered too much
from eating in my room. Spaghetti-O’s
have the d-hall beat.

Now that I am feeling better, I’m
starting to get back into my old routine, I
still need a bit more sleep and downtime
than usual. For example, it’s 10:19 pm and
I just yawned. That could be because this
article is extremely boring. And for that, I
apologize. Go ahead and yawn too. See if
I care!

However, despite the fact that I
can’t keep you entertained (Thanks for
bursting“ my bubble and hurting my
feelings!), more and more I am reverting
to my old habits...like that of insomnia.
For example, I have returned to waking
up at six in the morning to eat breakfast.
Yes, I am that weird.

Also, I am actually starting to enjoy

other’s company once again. If I can’t_

carry out my end of a conversation with
you, I don’t have mono to blame for it
anymore. It’s probably just that I find you
uninteresting. Just kidding again. Well,
maybe not. ..

I’m glad that my good ol’ immune
system has finally decided to buck up and
ﬁght those nasty germs. Being sick was
getting old. Of course, there’s one thing
I’ll miss about mono: I can’t let myself
have that extra bowl of ice cream as a
consolation for feeling like crap anymore.
However, now that I’m going to the gym
again...

Also, if anyone has a major
suggestion, be sure to let me know. I can’t
be Petra Pan forever. -

“V

 

   

j V
/

 THE RING=TUM PI-II.

‘*4

rm :-
. 37 6.755
A552.

V-I47
llC~23

C2.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

2.5

/07

M(NDAY,MARCH7,ZI5

BY THE STUDENTS AND

FDR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLllIlIECVI,MlVIBE?22

WHAT’S INSIDE

5 The envelope please...

And now, the moment we’ve all been
waiting for... the Fancy Dress theme
revealed on page 2.

Friday night fights

Eight bands faced off on Friday night
with a thousand bucks at stake.
Check out page 4 for a rundown on
who rocked and who did not.

 

HOTTICKET

The British are coming
Everyone’s favorite British dame
returns in the zany “Bridget Jones:
Edge of Reason,” which will be
playing in the Commons Theater on
Mon., March 7, at 7:00 p.m., and
Tues., March 8 through Fri., March
11, at 9:30 p.m.

Back by popular demand

“J acob’s Ladder” returns to the stage
to bring back the bluegrass music I
that secured their Battle of the Bands
victory last Friday. The band will

play at Jordan House on March ll at
8:00 p.m. ‘
Secret garden

Zach Braff’s trippy “Garderi~State” /
runs in the Commons Theater ‘at 7:30/
p.m. on Fri., March 11, and on Sat.,
March 12. Admission is free, but
contributions are welcome.

 

SIMPLE LIFE

Feng—Shui your Room

Create a peaceful place to escape
from the everyday stresses of life.
Though these are small steps, in
doing them, you will be inches closer
to reaching the Tao of W&L.

I Try some green: A bamboo
plant brings prosperity and grows
neatly in a glass bowl with water and
marbles.

I Don’t cut comers: According to
the Feng—Shui belief, this leaves
room for bad spirits in your space.

I Let in the light: Try to open
your blinds and let the sun shine in
for at least a few hours each day.
Also, try hanging a crystal in each
window. This helps dispel evil
before it can enter the room.

A creative study space can help you
improve your grades. Remember,
everything’s better when everything’s
zen

QUICK POLL

Q: Have you engaged -
in premarital sex at any time,
including any time prior to
your coming to W&L?

Man:

 

72 students polled, 36 male. 36 female. Poll has 95% confidence
in a +/- 5% margin ol error.

W&L tojump on sate ite bandwagon

By Chris Lauderman M
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF /'

Consideration of a Was ington,
D.C. satellite campus that will provide
W&L with a physical presence in the
nation’s capital, increasing the school’s
visibility, somewhere in the next two to
ten years, was announced in the strategic
plan. I
I The administration selected
Washington because of the critical mass
of W&L people in the city, its international
position, and its interdisciplinary nature.
Students can be exposed to many elements
such as policy, art, and science.

Both the city and northern Virginia
suburbs are being considered for the
location. Joe Grasso, Vice President for
Administration, sees the program starting
as a pilot program where we lease a space.

But Provost Thomas Williams said
that is not the only option. Buying a
building in DC, where real estate is
booming, might be a better investment for
the University than stocks or other
investments.

The site would have an on-site
director. An idea is to have room for
approximately 30 student residences and
two to three efficiency apartments for
faculty, alumni, and guests.

One key question is whether the

university can create a curriculum for
students to be at the DC center for as long
as a full semester. Williams said his
immediate vision for the center is not one

where students would spend a semester,‘

but that is a possibility down the road.

The Law School has the most
expansive plan for utilizing the DC center
at this time. In fact, the idea of a satellite
campus came up six years ago in a separate
law school plan. The initial idea is to give
students the chance to take specialized
courses and have internships in a
metropolitan area, not unlike Cornell Law
School and others. Law School Dean
David Partlett said that the DC center gives
W&L a chance to expand its curriculum
in the areas of administrative and
constitutional law.

According to Williams, potential
uses by the undergraduates at the DC
center include the journalism department
allowing students to intern for six credits.
Three credits would be given from a
journalism professor teaching in a
classroom and three credits would be
given by a newspaper such as the
Washington Post. V

Teacher education students, because
of W&L’s location, cannot do a practicum
or student teaching in a private school.
The DC center would give students
achieving their education certificate a
place to stay and teach in an urban district.

Currently, the Washington Term
program uses classrooms in another
university’s D.C. -center. A Washington
center would give the department
classroom space and a place for students
to stay while interning in the spring.
Shepherd students would also have the
opportunity to live in the center while they
worked in their summer placements.

University of California, Stanford,
William and Mary, Amherst, Boston
University, and others all have a satellite
campus in the DC area. Grasso and
Williams both said that there are many
models on which to build the program in
DC.

According to the administration,
having a satellite campus is becoming
more and more common, especially for a
school in a rural area.

“It is not unusual anymore for a
school of our quality,” Grasso said.

This proposal, like all others in the
strategic plan, is not set in stone.

“This should be widely discussed
and carefully considered,” Grasso said.

Despite the fact that it is not yet
permanent, the DC center is a high
academic priority for the school.

“DC is not just the center of
govemment,” said Larry Peppers, Dean of
the Williams School. “We see it as a

‘resource we can tap into regardless of

discipline.”

WANTED: Student input

The administration made
clear in a press conference held last I
week that student input is wanted
in the strategic pianning process. _
Students have several
different options to express their
views to the administration. There
is__a drop‘ box oirlineat http://
strategicpl‘an.wlu.edu.‘ This student '
forum has already been used by
about aidozen students and the
I information has been taken in by the
administration.
If there is student interest,
more open forums can be held to
discuss the different task force
‘reports. In the preliminary stages
of planning, however, students did ‘
not take advantage of this option.
A third option is to e-mail
Provost Williams directly.

‘ “Students should, indeed,
take this information, seriously,”
Williams said earlier in an interview .
with the Phi. “We want to know
student views on all these proposals,

' and want as well to have original
ideas from the student body.”
—- Chris Lauderman

Phi Beta
Kappa honors
new members

By Katherine Shell
ASSISTANT N/IEWS EDITOR
/

Phi/Beta Kappa welcomed 44
new members into its chapter in
Thursday’s Lee Chapel ceremony.
Robert Wilson ’73, the editor of Phi
Beta Kappa’s The American Scholar,
was honored as the speaker for this
induction.

The scholars are selected for
their “dedication to education and
involvement in support of [W&L’s]
liberal arts mission,” said Brian
Richardson, head of journalism
department, in his welcome speech.
The society was chartered on W&L’s
campus in 1911 in recognition of
excellent scholarship on campus.

Richardson also said that these
students promote W&L’s ideals of
excellence and scholarship, and give
the “assurance that reputation will
endure.”

Three students were honored in
abstentia from the class of 2004: Ellen
Carothers, Jackie Green, and Jaime
Muscar.

Twenty-two seniors were added
to represent the class of 2005 in Phi
Beta Kappa: Sarah Berhalter, Kristen
Brown, Hans Carlson, Derek Colla,
Laura FarreH, Wﬂham Fox, Courtenay
Glisson, Edward Irby, Tiffany Jenkins,
Wesley Kimmel, Christopher Lee,
Chia-I Lu, Elizabeth Murphy, Tom
Pickering, Anne Rochfort, Kim
Sanford, Kiersten Schmidt, Norman
Senior, Liz Tessier, Timothy Waddell,
Katie Wall, and Emily Wolfmg. One
senior was absent on a job interview,
and one graduated in December. Four
seniors who were elected last year, but
were abroad during the Convocation,
were honored this year: Wesley Bell,
Richard Busby, Peter Djalaliev, and
Kelley Magill.

Twenty-three juniors were also
elected: Ligia Medina, Vanessa Amess,
Halin Bareke, Melissa Clarke,
Jonathan Cochran, Elizabeth Davis,
Jessica Good, Stephanie Hannon,
Courtney Harrison, Amanda Hughes,
William Huntington, Adam Jarczyk,
Angela Kim, Matthew Layton, Nikita
Liarnzine, Amy McCarnphill, Matthew
Null, Christie Palazzolo, Jon Philipson,
Lee Rasamny, Benjamin Skrodzki,
Elizabeth Twentyman, and Emily
White. Several were studying abroad
during convocation and will be
honored during next year’s ceremony.

Sergey Kvasnyuk was given the
Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award,
given to the sophomore with the
highest academic average during the V
first four terms at W&L.

Wilson was inducted as an
honorary member and spoke to

congratulate the new members.

Catron and fellow models learn the proper stance the night before the show.

    

EMIL HULEN / STAFF PHOTOGRAP Fl

Beautiful inside and out

By Katherine Greene
STAFF WRITER

It takes a special kind of woman to
turn her own personal suffering into a
successful foundation to help others.

Heather Owens, an abuse victim, is
the founder of Beauty Revue Against
Violent Encounters (BRAVE), which held
its premiere events at the sorority houses
and Evans Hall this Saturday.

“We decided we needed to make a
difference,” said Owens, “and our goal is
to raise awareness, not just money.”

Owens got started on this mission
a year ago, after years of hearing the heart-
wrenching stories of her clientele at A
Positive Image Spa, her business on Main
Street.

“Over 75% of the women coming
into my spa had [abuse] stories they were
willing to share,” Owens said, “It’s
overwhehning how many of these women
there are.”

Lindsey Duran, ’06 Law, helped to
organize the BRAVE events this weekend,
including the Day of Beauty and the
Fashion Show. She said, “In [Owens’s]
line of work, she has seen a lot of abused
women...it just ran the gamut of people
in bad situations.”

Owens, a former makeup artist
from New York City, says that women
don’t just come to her to feel relaxed.
“They come to feel better about
themselves,” she said, “because their self-
esteem has been destroyed.”

“People had no place to turn,” said
Owens, who accuses both the community
and authorities in Lexington of denying
the problem and refusing to help victims

 

 

EMILY HULEN  STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
Above: Owens gives a local woman
a make-over at the Theta house on
Saturday. Below: Khady Mbaye,
‘O5, struts the runway.

SAHAR KAMALI / STAF PHOTOGRAPHER

 
   

of domestic abuse. “These women are
unable to stand up comfortably and not
feel ashamed. . .the abuser should be made
to feel ashamed, and the law in this town
won’t help.”

The Day of Beauty event took place
at the sorority houses, a location which
was chosen for its convenient proximity
to both campus and so many women.

Fitness classes, including a basic
self-defense course, were held in the
Kappa Kappa Gamma house and a silent
auction of donated gift baskets was held
at Kappa Delta. Both Kappa Alpha Theta
and Pi Beta Phi hosted local aestheticians
including Owens herself as they gave
massages, manicures, and makeup lessons.

The fashion show, held later in the
evening, featured items donated or
borrowed from several boutiques in
Lexington, as well as some in
Charlottesville and Staunton.

Bethany Catron, ’O5, participated in
the fashion show as a model. “[Heather]
has a lot of experience,” she said, “and
she makes us feel a lot better about [being
in front of everyone].”

Owens said, “This has become a
turning point in my life,” of the events on
Saturday. “W&L has been such a great
help to my cause, in a community that has
the attitude that abuse doesn’t happen
here.”

Launching BRAVE to a national
level is Owens’s next course of action.
She is slated to attend conferences in
Philadelphia and Las Vegas in the coming
months, ready to tell her story, and the
stories of the women she has tried to help.

Heather Owens may be the kind of
woman it takes to make it happen.

 

 

 

 

was (3. LEYBURN t.lul-om A
VASHINGTON & LEE umvansm
LE.‘(ti\§f3.TOz‘\l. VA 24450

2 -THERING-TUMPHI HA? 1 6 2005

 

THE WORKING POOR

David Shipler, Pulitzer-prize winning journalist and Washington and Lee University Woodrow Wilson Fellow,

' addressed the University Community Thursday, March 3, in Lee Chapel and is pictured with Professor Harlan

Beckley. He spoke on his latest book, The Working Poor: Invisible in America. Following his speech, he
signed books at the University bookstore. Shipler addressed several classes while he was on campus, ranging
from journalism to economics. He also ate every breakfast, lunch and dinnervvith students inthe Marketplace.

 

98th Fancy Dress Ball theme revealed

Chairs unveil “In the Shadow of the Sphinx’? theme

ByErinJulius
EDlTO3HN-CHIEF

Washington and Lee’s 98”‘
annual Fancy Dress Ball, themed “In the
Shadow of the Sphinx,” will be held
March 19 in the Warner Center. Johnny
White and the Elite Band will perform in
Doremus gym, with a DJ as entertainment

 
   

 

  

Standard
features i§IE.Ai%L;l§FE::;

 

in the smaller gym.

Johnny White and the Elite Band is
a 10—piece show and dance band known
for its Motown medleys.

The Fancy Dress Committee, co-
chaired by Amanda Jones and Catherine
Turner, revealed the “In the Shadow of the
Sphinx” theme last night.

The ball is scheduled for 9 p.m. — 1

x

*s‘st.:;r§e s§:aris’esi. sargaggea,  gag; $g;:g§§..§=‘:,r'§;Iz,E*  set}. ﬁmla. s:rs:§§%%iars.:.sr2j serge serxsg.

  

.3, life: .§::.‘+ §i’°:i:ra“§

a.m. Ticket’ prices for this year’s ball are
$35 per person, $40 at the door. This
year’s memorabilia package, which
includes a ticket, t-shirt, shot glass, poster,
playbill and cups costs $50.

This year’s Fancy Dress was
scheduled later than normal in an effort to

accommodate law students, who are
currently on spring break.

Sciurs “Pars trlcs” purrhase amrienra
............................... r. means its baggie, tie hassle.

 

 3’  1:: .«

13-?‘
4
§”"\

) .;..llsl

 

éaiieéati vfééaevs»-as E33 stares ‘rain sis: seaaksrs, imiudéng tea:
ta"asi;srs and ﬁrs»-::.~=.a.'t§ Eeaasd ifiraatassisg:    cassette and ZEN
gs-sagas  i%i"i§§~»§s.'srL:,i~:? erases 9‘ Fraser a;i:r:eesr's,  %§r3r.:.:lts, and
arstséafa as-.rrers 3 Mess’, tz==,.,BEE-:asi§;as- Faaaertrsia: a¢a:rran%’%g*

 

 

Gender Relations 

Committe forms

Group aims to educate campus on
what constitutes sexual assault

ByKalherineShell
A§STN\lTl\EV\ISE|JTO?

The newly-formed Gender
Relations Committee held an
organizational meeting last Tuesday to
open itself to student involvement. The
GRC intends to “coordinate the
educational and preventative efforts of
various campus groups currently dealing
with sexual misconduct,” according to the
W&L News Office.

According to committee member
Mary Jacob Rankin ’O5, a major purpose
of the group is to form “education and
even ground for everyone on campus what
is consent, what is sexual assault.”

Dean of Students Dawn Watkins
and President Thomas Burish asked the
Panhellenic Council and the Inter-
Fraternity Council to address the issue of
sexual misconduct. As such, the
committee is made of students from
fraternities and sororities, most of whom
have held positions within their own
affiliation, Panhel or IFC. The group will
be a “permanent group allying faculty,
staff, and students,” said member Susan
Somers ’05.

However, students who are not
Greek-affiliated should not feel as though
they cannot be a part of this committee.
“This group should bridge and extend to
all areas of life,” not just Greek life,
Rankin said.

One goal of the GRC is to form
“action teams to deal with specific
challenges,” Somers said. These
subgroups, based on various aspects of
gender relations on campus, include
Activities and Gender Interactions, Male
and Female Outreach Curriculum,

     

Academic Curriculum Infusion and
Judicial Review. Activities and Gender
Interactions, led by Somers, would seek
to promote social activities that are not
alcohol—based.

The student organization One in
Four is a starting point for the Male and
Female Outreach Curriculum, headed by
John Gaffney ‘O6. During the past few
weeks, One in Four has been traveling to
every fraternity on campus to educate other
men about sexual assault. As of now, they
plan to be part of Freshmen Orientation
next fall.

Curriculum Infusion Education
would seek to “organize ways for gender
issues to be incorporated into classroom
settings,” said Tom Pickering ‘05, head of
the action committee and former IFC
President. “We would collaborate with the
faculty,” he continued, and the committee
would seek to allow on campus issues to
be part of classroom discussion. The
Judicial Review Action Team, led by Katie
Henderson, the student chair of the
Student Faculty Hearing Board, which
hears cases dealing with sexual assault,
would “evaluate reporting procedures to
make students more comfortable,” said
Henderson. They would also seek to
“make sure procedures and policies ﬁt
within W&L culture right now.

Somers states that the GRC is
“hoping before the end of the year to make
a lot of changes.” Seniors on the
committee all plan to see speciﬁc changes
as a result of this formation before their
graduation.

The GRC’s co—advisors Jan
Kaufman, director of Health Promotion,
and Jennifer Sayre, counselor, are working
closely with the group to ensure faculty
support.

 
 
   
 
 

 
   
 
     

 
       
     
   

.1,

 

1

1
‘i

THE RING-TUM PHI - 3

 

Ginder sets pace for team a

    

Courtesy Sports Information
-Ni:iml(§irhr

“I usually swim my best when
there ’s someone that’s faster than
_I am in the lane next to me. I '
don’t like to lose, so I push myself
even harder when I ’m swimming
against someone fast”

order to gain a strong education while
pursuing swimming. In addition, his
father attended and swam for W&L. “As
I was growing up, he used to tell me stories
from his college years. I knew I wanted
to swim in college, but also wanted a
balance between athletics and academics,”
Ginder explained.

A competitive spirit and a desire to
win motivates Ginder to swim his best.
“The thing I enjoy most about swimming
is probably racing. I usually swim my best

when there’s someone that’s faster than I
am in the lane next to me. I don’t like to
lose, so I push myself even harder when
I'm swimming against someone fast” said
Ginder.

Although he excels in many aspects
of swimming, Ginder’s area of expertise
is freestyle. “My favorite race has to be
the 200 free. I like this race best because
it’s stiH considered a sprint race but there’s
room for some minor mistakes.” He has
had continued success in this race. “I also

placed 4th at the NCAA DIII Nationals
meet last year so that’s a big part of why I
like the event so much.”

Ginder’s favorite moment of the
season was the 400 meter free relay at
Conferences. The relay team was seeded
third for the last event of the meet. After
being behind for much of the race, Ginder,
who was swimming the anchor leg, was
able to bring them into first. They ended
up winning by .67 seconds. The win put
them at 800 points, which was a goal of
the meet, and enabled the team to come
home Conference champions.

Ginder attributes much of his
success to goal-oriented coaching. “Joel
did a great job of motivating us to put
everything we had into every race this
season. We had a great second season
under his coaching ﬁnishing the season
6-2.”

Known as “Golden Boy,” Michael
Ginder has shown himself to be a
consistent and motivated swimmer. With
speed, determination, and a true love of
the sport, Ginder promises to be a star on
the swimming team for the rest of his
W&Leareer.

Hollins, Washington

known to provide stiff competition to the
Women’s tennis team in recent years,
upcoming matches with teams outside the
ODAC will prove challenging.

Next weekend’s match at Dennison
College is one of those matches.
“Everything this week will culminate with
Dennison,” said Wortham. “We lost last
4-5 last year and it was a heartbreaker.”

Looking to turn last year’s loss
around, the team has remained focused
and maintained an intense standard of
training since the beginning of the season.
Though recent snowfall and bitter cold
days have added extra challenges to the
already demanding practice schedule, the
women have found ways to continue to
workout. Each practice consists of an hour
of conditioning and an hour of actual play.
“It’s a new level of focus, but we have big
goals,” said Wortham. “When we do well
and work hard it’s kind of a good feeling.”

DOMINATINGTHEOOURTS '

 

Jon Roger Sail Photographer

LedbyNo.25PaulMoClureandNo.20DavidShay,theNo.10Mens’Tennis
team defealed No.18WashingtonOollege6-1 on March5.

Women laxers pull off 9-8 victory in ﬁnal seconds

Team improves record to 1-1 with win over No. 14 Franklin and Marshall

Kristen Foster (Denver, Colo./Kent
Denver), to take a 4-2 advantage with
13:19 remaining in the first half. W&L
junior attacker Amanda Strickler
(Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County)
notched an unassisted tally at the 19:27
mark to cut the deficit to 4-3, which was
the score heading into halftime.

The Generals trailed 5-3 just 3:10
into the second half, but would score the
next three goals to take a 6-5 lead with
15:58 remaining in the game. Freshman
attacker Christine Bender (Moorestown,
N.J./Moorestown) scored the first of her
three goals to give W&L the lead. F&M
replied with two goals to take a 7-6 lead
and the Generals responded with a pair of

l #1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa Rica. 110%
Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
endlesssummertours.com

goals to go up 8-7.

The Diplomats tied the game at 8-8
on a free position goal by sophomore
midﬁelder Brenna Dolphin (Wilmington,
Del./Archmere) with 5:33 left in the .garne,
which set up Hoobchaak’s game-winner.

Hoobchaak notched one goal and
two assists in the game, while sophomore
midﬁelder Kelly Evans (Lexington, Va./
Rockbridge County) added a pair of goals.

F&M was led by Foster, who had
three goals and an assist. Senior attacker
Alexis O’Meara (Millersville, Md./Sevem
School) also notched three goals.

W&L freshman goalkeeper Sarah
Tilbor (West Simsbury, Conn./Simsbury)
made nine saves, while Diplomats

MG‘lDAY,MARCH7,ZIJ5
\ THIS WEEK
'.
MONDAY, MARCH7 -
-Baseball vs. Villa Julie; 3:00
TUESDAY, MARCH8
-Women’s Tennis at Sweet Briar'4 30 By K“!
- v STAFFWRITER
WENESDAY,MARCH9
IMen’s LAX vs Elizabethtown; 3230 Using powerful Strokes’ a desire to
, -Women’s LAX vs. Frostburg 4:00; win, and his secret dorsal fin, Michael
. Ginder swam his way into the record
11-uRsDAY,MAﬁcH1o books at the Bluegrass Mountain
-Baseball VS_ S. Virginia; 3:00 Championship. The sophomore from
Jacksonville, Florida dominated the
freestyle events coming in first in the 50,
FRDAY MARCH11 ’

A ’ 100 and 200 meter freestyle races. He set
-Track at NCAA,S TBA a school record in the 200 free, and led
-Women’s Tennis at MWC 4:00 two relay teams to two more records.

Ginder’s outstanding performance
_ SA-rURDAY!MARcH12 was rewarded with Co-Swimmer of the
-Women’s Tennis at R—MC 9200 Meet honors. In addition, Ginder qualiﬁed
-Mews Tennis at R_MC 9:00 for ‘NCAA Division III Swimming &
_ Diving championships in all ﬁve events.
-Track W&L Inv. 10:00 p The most important outcome for him,
.Women,S Tennis VS. Guilford 10:00 however, was the second straight W&L
win at the Bluegrass Mountain
-Baseball R—MC 12:00 Championship
-Men’s Tennis vs. Denison 12:00 Ginder began Swimming when he,
was eight years old for a neighborhood
Iwomcn 5 LAX at CUA 1300 summer club team. He continued to swim
-Men’s Tennis vs. VWC 3:00 through high school. He chose W&L in
-Women’s Tennis vs. VWC 3:00
'Men’s LAX vs. F&M 6:00
 GCIICIH S SWEEP
-Women’s Tennis vs. Denison 10:00
IBaseball vs. HSC 12:00
-Women’s LAX at Lynchburg 2:00
' SPORTS BRIEFS
BySadiBloom
W&LMen’sLacrosseDawns 5”“‘F““"‘ E”
 Th t h re of fo
Senior attackman Jack Murray scored d fie was an‘; mlgsp C d Gus
a career—high four goals and assisted an Con 1 ence as _ as mg_t0n, a_n Lee
on another to lead eighth-ranked defelited botg ﬁI°HmS_ Umvirslty and
Washington and Lee to a 9-8 win over was mgton 0 egg this Wlae slid’ The
Sixtbmnked Gettysburg on Saturday Generals walked away victorious in every
afternoon at the W&L Turf Field. mam‘ Play“ _ , , .
. “Everyone just dominated,’ said
_ sophomore Ginny Wortham.
T“Dw&L I'%:|b Coach Curt Speerschneider has
 developed a game plan with a week by
Washlhgtoh and Lee S€h10T Chris week breakup of the team’s short and long-
C°lhY and S0Ph0m0f€ Mlchael term goals. “This week was the ﬁrst week
Glfldﬁf haV€ qualiﬁed f0f the NCAA where we really aimed to focus on our
DlVlSlOIl  lVlCIl’S  and playing,” said Wortham. The team
Diving Championships held at the currently has an undefeated record and
Holland Community Aquallc Cﬁhlﬁf number three doubles team Katie
in Hollﬂnd, Mich-. fr0m Thu‘: M31 Kingsbury and Kelly Will have yet to lose
17-53% M31 19- a game in competition.
Though the ODAC has not been
W&LFieldHookeyEamsNFHCA
Academic Honor(3l'3)
The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey
team has been cited by the National
Field Hockey Coaches Association
(NFHCA) for its team grade-point
average (GPA), the association
announced on Wednesday.
W&LSporlsHelease
W&L Men’sTennisDefealsNo.18 seoﬁrsrronwmow
Washington, 6-1 (3f5) V
The Washington and Lee men’s tennis Sehlol mldfleldeh Natalya
team improved to 4.4 Overall with 3 6- Hoobchaak (Barrington, Ill./Loyola
1 win Over 18th_ranked washington Academy) scored off an assist from senior
College on Saturday evening. mldflelder Maggie Speasmakef
_ _ _ (Charlottesville, Va./St. Anne’s-Belﬁeld)
W&LBaseba|lPickedSIxlhrn with 22 seconds left in the game to lift
ODAC Pd|(@2) No. 20 Washington and Lee to a 9-8
The Old Dominion Athletic victory over N o. 14 Franklin and Marshall
Conference released its baseball in Women’s lacrosse action on Saturday
preseason poll on Wed. and W&L was afternoon at Watt Field.
picked to ﬁnish sixth among the 10 The Generals (1-1) led 2-1 with
conference teams. 4:50 gone-by in the first half, but the
Diplomats (0-1) scored three straight
  goals, including two by 'junior attacker
Elifte 
LOOKING To START A BIJSLNESS
OR
OWNING YOUR OWN HOME 2!!
Call us and we vvill have’your ptoblexn solved
Vve specialize in: Debt Consolidation,
I-Iotno loacn. Auxto Loans
Srn/all Business Luann. Personal 1153115. ‘
No UP FRONT FEES
CALL AT: 1866-236-8288
1999 Audi A4 lluatlio
KM I'iIl|I0.12 0|] changer, !I00lI Gﬂlllllllllll.
$11,500. Ball 261-5598.

LIFEGUAF-IDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier411.com
1 377 SEE POOL

sophomore netminder Kim Pleasants
(Upper Darby, Pa./Upper Darby) stopped
eight shots.

    
      

lllig ii
if

    

~§.—‘__

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Sll0P
273 Raphine Road
Raphlne, VA 24472
s4o34s522o - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams. kits. needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Callforworlrshop&dasslnformation.

Halfway between lgxington and Slaunfon
0n I-81 /I-64 at air 205, Rankine. 4rm'Ies west on
Romp  Raphine Road. Located Ulla W0l'h'”8
fann iha: o_tfers "U-PICK " appariunitiesfor fresh
fruit when in season.

'llies - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed imtil 8:00

w 

 

 
 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

artsalife

 

MG\DAY,MAFlCH7,ZI5

Freshmanbasks in the g oryof opp

Bymarychias

ITSBDTYCXJ. ITSME

Being a freshman is a tricky
thing. The world is before you — a sea of
fun things cry your name and it’s your job
to stand there and bask in the glory that is
opportunity. You get here, you set your
stuff up in your square inch of personal
space, and the frat callscommence. Now
it is rumored that one or two freshmen girls
have all of a sudden taken to fancying
themselves wonderful and beautiful, as a
direct result of these said frat calls, and
the boys consider themselves frat lords,
because whenever they attend said parties
they are lauded over and praised. “Man,”
they think to themselves, “I must be like
awesome, this guy thinks I am SO cool!
They think I’m like the biggest partier, it
must be true.” And thus we have the head
inﬂation of another class of Washington
and Lee graduates. But, my friends, the
glory that is first semester freshman year
is ﬁnite.

First term I took such rigorous
classes as Dance, Drawing and poetry.
While all of these classes were
magnificent in and of themselves,
combined they provided me with the
perfect opportunity to go out whenever I
pleased and spend time as I saw ﬁt.

This term, however, my courses
were signiﬁcantly different. And I sprained

NEWSBJTOCI

After innumerable covers of Phish,
Dave Matthews, Coldplay and U2 at
Friday’s Battle of the Bands, the only band
to perform all-original compositions took
home the first-place prize of $1000.
J acob’s Ladder, last to perform, received
the most enthusiastic audience support
after its set. Band members Dan Fassio

’05, Wheeler Sparks ’06, Pete Jones ’06

and Jared Meyer ’07 also won a spot on
the program at Buffalo Creek this May.

Second place and $500 went to
another crowd favorite, Jon Bovi and the
Afternoon Delights, whose vocalist
announced, “I got a fever....and we’re
going to ﬁll that prescription with some
friggin’ cowbell.” Spirited cowbell use
drew cheers and laughter from a crowd
numbed by dreary Oasis covers. Social
Probation earned third place and $250
with its energetic covers of Madonna and
The Darkness.

 

I ’ve been to all of these cities and I can’t tell you
what they look like because I slept through it, or
sang through it, or was too dazed and confused
to understand my own location. They put us on
the bus, took us to a city, took us 0]?’ the bus,

and told us to sing, like a herd of musical sheep.
 

my foot, so I was late to all of them. But
in any case, shifting gears from first to
second term was nearly impossible. Please
note that this is my first column
since...2004. I slept through a few
deadlines. And all of these classes that
were breezy and fun last term have
suddenly transformed into monstrous
(interesting, too! Sorry, profs) juggemauts
that consume as much time as I will allow
them.

During what I believe was
Orientation week, we were herded to the
gym to walk around in circles past tables
of upperclassmen hoping to get our
commitment to some kind of important
charity or extracurricular. Being the wide-
eyed and excitable freshmen that I was, I
signed up at pretty ‘much every table I
found. Pan—Hellenic ﬁtness classes? Why
sure! Cystic Fibrosis Ball? Sounds great!
Interfraternity Council? Awesome!

Obviously all of these commitments to
which I committed myself have since
fallen away.

Just recently, the pledge class of my
brand-new sorority and I decided our
housing situations for the rest of our W&L
careers. When we toured the country
houses and all the rest, the map of
Lexington spread out before us uncharted
and full of hope. But alas, reality set in
and suddenly the map was marked and
ﬂagged left and right ~ this one is a two-
year lease, this one is taken for junior year,
this one is taken for both years, this one is
a ﬁve person house, are you going abroad?
Suddenly my life was asking me to commit
to everything all at once. Where do you
want to live? Who will be your friends in
three years? The control I relished at the
beginning of the year is disappearing as I
sign my life away for the remaining of my
time here. Soon they will ask me for my

major, and then husband and number of
children. And these answers will be
binding.

And harkening back to the frat calls
and praise of yore? Unfortunately, we have
all pledged or not pledged. The rushing
has ended. The boys are no longer lords
of every frat; instead, they serve one and
only one. The girls are not amazingly
popular with every lunch date booked ‘till
kingdom come; they are in but one
sorority, or not. and receive not three, not
two — nay. the frat calls of those golden
days are now reserved only for the
incomings in the fall.

Over Feb. break, while many of you
were sunbathing on beautiful beaches with
sand and air and water and beautiful
things. others of us were on nasty-smelling
buses watching Mallrats and 8—mile over
and over. That’s right. Jubilee/SoCo tour
2005. I think we managed about
24,733,901 cities in that week alone. And
we paid to do it. It would have been
glorious had 1 any idea where in the world
I was. For example, Ijust now learned
from the tee-shirt that Lauren’s making
that I was in Fort Worth. It was news to
me. I’ve been to all of these cities and I
can’t tell you what they look like because
I slept through it, or sang through it, or
was too dazed and confused to understand
my own location. They put us on the bus,
took us to a city, took us off the bus, and
told us to sing, like a herd of musical

   

PHOTOS BY STEVEN MAFIINOS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

s takes 2nd

ortunity

sheep. It was fun, and we loved to do it,
but for Mary Childs, whose life has just
recently been removed from her hands, it
did not help her to orient herself and
acclimate herself upon return.

So not only have my classes
attacked me ruthlessly, and not only has
housing been locked for the next three
years (granted, I’m pretty ﬂipping excited
about living with dragons and pandas and
bears, oh my!), but also I have ofﬁcially
turned into a singing sheep. Or a lemming.
Whatever you choose, because I’ve
relinquished all control. Clearly any
attempts on my part to control where I go
or what I do are futile. Perhaps signing up
for two plays was a bad idea; perhaps I
shouldn’t have stacked my schedule this
way. All of these thoughts, too, are just
spinning wheels. But luckily I was told
earlier that I will in fact ﬂoat on alright,
and hey, spring term is shining brightly at
the end of this dreary semester. I can
almost hold my breath that long. So the
Orientation week glitter of opportunity,
breezy classes and anything-you—want-to-
do - mostly gone. Being a freshman is not
the time to accomplish anything, to pursue
your dreams — no, instead, it is a time to
settle and a time to commit. Which is by
no stretch a bad thing — but maybe they
should put up a sign at the little Activities
Fair that week just to give the wide-eyed
frosh a heads up.

(PS. I just remembered Fort Worth).

Against the Grain

 

By!(ﬂsli1Evms
noarsnusozm

I believe that I am an optimist.
I always try to search for the brighter
‘side of things, but lately my friends
have been wearing 7 down my
optimism. How, you might ask, by
mentioning the awful c-
word...co1nmitmeut.l Not just
commitment but relationships in
general. Something that I have been
3. fumed. to  is less common than
I thought on this campus." L
In the past two weeks i have
had so many friends complain to me

am forgetst .... g

about the dating scene on our campus
that it made me take a second look at it
myself. I was a little surprised by what
I found. Washington and Lee is not a
relationship school, though there are
exceptions to every rule it is a “hook-
up” school, as my friends angrily
reminded me several times throughout
the week.

However, the lack of
relationships on campus is not what
took me by surprise. Relationships are
rare, if everyone was in a fulfilling
relationship, the dating services that
practically attack nofe when I am online
just would not exist. What puzzles me

is the relationship etiquette on this
campus. Honestly, I just do not
understand it. Maybe I neglected to pick
up my “Guide to W&L dating”
handbook at my freshmen rnatiiculation
because I am utterly confused.

For example, since when has it
been okay to take someone else’s
boyfriend to a formal as your date‘? He
may be 3 good friend of yours but he is

someone else’s boyfriend. I was under
the impression that this type of behavior
was taboo (or at least it is in the rest of
the country). I am not a jealous person
and I do not think that people should
be upset if their significant other does

a friend a favor, but itiis the principle
of the thing!

Now I am not completely ‘

blaming the girl for asking in this
example. She needed a date and if he
agrees to accompany her, she gets what
she wants. At the same time, I cannot
completely blame the guy either. He did
not want to be rude, she could just be a
friend, and besides, she knows that he
has a girlfriend anyway, right‘?
WRONG! It seems like this is yet
another case of political incomectness._
Neither party wants to offend, but at the
same time both are wondering‘ what is
really going on. Please do not pretend

rah “Guide toW&L daing” 

like you haveinotwbeen in asimatiggm
like this before. I know that you have.

So maybe this explains the ,2
“casual dating” on our campus. It just
seems easier. If you /are not in a
relationship then you can do whatever
you want  whomever you want,
period. I just 1iave\to wonder is that
really what makes in happy? With so
many of my ﬁiends complaining about 
this very thing, I am not ‘so sure
anymore. My friends would say the /
W&L way of dating is just destined ‘ if
for disaster, but the truth is that some if
people make it work. Like I said, I
have to be optimistic.

 

7

1 .

 

 
  

t
'1

1

XX‘

4.

I

4

K

 

MGDAY, MARCH 7, Z15

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

“Being a woman is a terribly difﬁcult task, since
it consists principally in dealing with men. ”,

—JosephOonrad

AFlTS&L|FEEDfl'O3'

Most of my friends at other
schools are either skiing to their
hearts’ content or soaking up the rays
at sultry beaches. As for us, we have
a month until that gap between classes
and fun that the administration calls
Spring Break.

I don’t know about the
rest of you, but snowfall
shouldn’t happen in March,
ever, unless you live in
Antarctica.

I find that a little online
shopping helps to ease the
pain of the winter blues,
especially when it comes in the form
of an awesome white jacket by Vince
or a new pair of Theory pants.

This spring’s trends are nothing
we haven’t seen before. I wish a
couple of them had never come back
(or even started for that matter), but

     
   
  

we’ll start with my favorites.
White, white, everything white.
White pants, white dresses, white tank
tops... you get the idea. Nothing says
spring quite like crisp white clothing.
Everyone from J. Crew to Bergdorf
has a great selection of the color not
in the UV spectrum. Just don’t wear
all white. It’s not sorority
initiation, and the purpose of
spring is so that we don’t ,
4 have to look at snowballs.
Shrunken jackets 
have been making their way‘ ' »
into the limelight
since late fall,

   
   
  
     

first time in a couple of years. They’re
adorable, if you don’t have hips. If
you do have hips, stay away. "
Otherwise, you’ll wind up
looking like a pear on steroids.
The Anthropologie
catalog is full of
adorable dresses
and skirts sporting
this trend.

V Oversized ; ‘
bags are in. I
W h e t h e r
they’re in a
n o r In a 1
color, such

 

but with g as green or

lightweight  pink, or

materials, PHOTOSCOURTESV or NEIMANMARCUSCOM in a hot
they’llbe huge in metallic

spring. Paired with a cute James
Perse tank top and some Antikjeans,
they’ll have you whistling a bright
tune in no time.

Full Skirts are reappearing for the

shade, these bags are hot. They’re good
for carrying everything from your
chemistry lab manuals to your walk of
shame necessities. No matter if you
have the coveted Lolli bag or a cute

Phi investigates Glad

ByErriyEdwads

ARTS& UFEHJITOH

In the past 24 hours I have learned
many useful things. First, Z-rated tires
are no match for a snowstorm, the theater
in Buena Vista does not accept debit cards,
and Glad has done it again.

During Thursday’s repeat episode
of The OC, an advertisement for a new
product by Glad aired on TV. This
product, Glad Press ‘n Seal, promised to
take away all my spillage worries. All my
spillage worries? Something must be
wrong with it.

They showed Gladware containers
that were useless without their lids. They
showed sectionless plates. They showed
coffee cups. And Glad promised that their

new product, when used as a Saran wrap ,

of sorts, would eliminate spills. But does
it?
I bought myself a roll of Press ‘n

Seal at our neighborhood Wal-Mart for
the amazing price of $4.46 for
approximately 150 ft. of wrap. I will
admit, I was skeptical of this uber-
American, self-proclaimed life-changing
product.

Armed with some paper towels
and a pile of leftovers, I tested Press ‘n
Seal in my Woods Creek apartment
kitchen. If you desire the same thrills, I
highly recommend it.

First on my list was the lidless
Gladware container. I ﬁlled it with milk
(sour, perhaps) and applied Press ‘11 Seal.
According to the instructions, the
container’s rim must be dry. Check.

After thoroughly sealing the
container, I carried it to the sink, and
ﬂipped, shook, and tipped the container.
Nothing happened. And by nothing, I
mean not a drop leaked out.

Next up was the sectionless plate.
I spooned out some salsa, pasta, and rice

  

It’s not that far to
East Lexington...
where your FD flowers aw
l60i3iNoiWe*é‘Fiiyhway\

540.463.9841 thejefferson@ade|phia71et,
www.thejeffersonfloristandgarden.com

  7“   ‘ii     ,
florist@garden

Easy Access off Furrs Mill Road. ‘i

 

  
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
   

Spring Fashion update

i Shrunken jackets among this season’s trends

Prada tote, a nice spring bag
helps to understate the cold
weather.
The final trend is the
wedge shoe. Can you walk
in wedge shoes? I
attempted in eighth
grade and failed
(ehem, fell) miserably.
Some of these shoes are
reminiscent of the Steve
Madden platfrom era,
God help us. But,
nevertheless, everyone
‘ from Nine West to Kate
Spade and Jimmy
Choo are cranking out
multiple wedge styles.
So, if you’re looking to
spruce up your wardrobe for
the upcoming season, here are just
a few of my picks. Take them or
leave them. With the exception of
the treacherous wedge, I’ll

definitely be wearing these items.

roduct

 

onto the plate. Now, if you’re as anal as I
a.m, you don’t enjoy your food touching
each other. Thisis a problem with
leftovers.

Once again, I applied the wrap to
the plate, and pressing it in between the
different sections of food, I created
sections.

I repeated the Gladware experiment
again, shaking, turning, ﬂipping and
tipping the plate. Nothing moved.

Now, if for some reason, you’re
worried about your frat cup spilling at the
next band party, don’t use Press ‘n Seal.

PHOTO COURTESY OFVGLADC

It miserably failed the cup tests.
Using coffee cups, frat cups, ‘

glasses, and a Pyrex measuring bowl,

I was unable to make use of my
miracle product. I guess we’ll just
have to keep using sippy cups.

Out of the realm of food, Press
‘n Seal has many uses, from a lint
remover to a makeshift table cloth
(attractive, I know).

You can visit Glad’s website
for many more wonderful hints. If
only my Michelins were as useful as
Press ‘n Seal.

Student
poetically
argues for
snow days

layianoicirnson

srAi=FwPm3a'

 

Not Rain nor Sleet nor snow nor hail
Shall ever close mighty W&L
Though Students fear th’ icy car trip
In schedule changes it will never slip

An hour or two, maybe no more
A Stoic Tim Kolly Announces at th’ door
No pity here shall you ever seek
Should late to class this weather make

This cold uncaring and unfeeling giant
V Is really acting all quite deﬁant
Don’t they know the consequences
When winter blizzard doth intenses?

From screeching wheels to cmnching crash
Or slipping feet from classward dash
The broken skull cannot repair
Nor can the leg that tendon tear

The lucid ice that covers the ground
It does not discern from student or town
All shall face Sir Jack Frost’s wrath
When Mr. Kolly puts them in his path

The lawsuits! Oh see how they ﬂy!
God help us if someone should die!
But lucky are you who on broken ground lie
For there is a lawschool right nearby!

And if this incident should cause attention
Then god forbid someone goes to prison
Although convenience is at our door
As VMI is our vigilant Neighbor

As things seem now, as it would stand
If rain of fire swept cross the land
Tim Kolly would contact us through mail
“School will be open, even through hell”

And so sorry stands our state of affairs
That we question if our beloved school cares
Our hardworking staff that could use a break

But never from our time schedules take

So Administration please listen up good
Lest we think you cold hearted and rude

And take from me these words of advice,
My, wouldn’t a snow-day sure be nice’?

stand-un comerlv

also teaturing
- cnris walker - 8:00 |IIn
Kalli sllellnutl - 8:15

xalr Ilauscll uresents

tonlalnsamlrin Imllm amarlrrlrnnlltalrt

 

6 OTHERNG-TUMPHI

NKIDAY, MARCH 7, E15

IIDIIIIIIIIS

 

Planning ideas

Because student input is an
essential part of the strategic planning
process, The Ring—tum Phi will put
across a few ideas regarding the
Communications report, which is
concerned primarily with Washington
and Lee’s national reputation and narne—
recognition..

Within the Communications
strategic recommendations, several
excellent ideas are put forth. A satellite
uplink seems to be a solid way to

I‘ facilitate a huge amount of press

coverage for the University.

The report also proposes to
“Change the Conversation Around
Robert E. Lee.” Because Lee truly did
make important contributions to the
field of higher education, we fully
support the idea of highlighting these
very positive facets of his character.

We also fully support the idea of
asking national figures to serve as
commencement speakers. We ﬁrmly
believe this is the easiest way for our
school to garner national attention.

At the end of the report, the
Communications task force points to
the necessity of a Visitor’s Center. This
idea makes perfect sense, as currently
the closes thing to a Visitor’s Center
that Washington and Lee has is Lee
Chapel, which certainly does not help
to “Change the Conversation Around
Robert E. Lee.”

The Communications report
does make one unfortrmate proposal.
The University does not need to alter
the Trident to make it look “less
ominous and reminiscent of a
swastika.” Our Trident looks no more
like a swastika than the New York
Yankees’ symbol. And anyway, why
change something as inherent to our
school’s image as the Trident when the
end goal is as vague as looking “less
ominous”? ‘ ‘

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson has
recovered from the plague to give you
his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0 Mach ‘
In like some sort of twisted lion-lamb
hybrid, probably out in the same way.

0 Gwstatuehcommons

I was showing around some
girls from Hollins who were visiting
for an athletic event, and when they
saw the statue they were like
“ohhhh....that is terrible.” Thing was
meant to be seen from a distance.

OTrident Logo

Administrators- you really can’t take it
away. a- everyone loves it, who cares
if it looks vaguely ominous? b- you’d
have to spend a lot of money painting
over things and getting letterheads
redone. Our tuition is high enough.

0 Honor System

Only one person has left the school
because of an alleged HV so far this
year. Very low.

0Prof. Diette

Dear Econ Dept.— Now is the time to
stop the perpetual revolving door for
visiting profs who teach intro courses.
Hire this man. No. this has nothing at
all to do with my midterm on Tuesday.

‘_ 0ExamWeekaMonthAway

Please, whoever makes this
decision...please bring back free soda
week during exams. Don’t make me
beg now.

0 The Brick

Getting orders out noticeably faster
now. Still, could they serve soda in

_L_ __‘s_o_rnetIiing OTHER than frat cups?

0 Nader
It’s “Presidential Election Footnotes”

year for Contact, apparently. Not that
I’m complaining, Pol major that I am.

0 Baseball

Nothing warms this Little League
umpire’s heart like the smell of a
freshly-tended field and the sound of
the crack of a bat. Go Padres!

Belief in premarital
sex on the decline at  
W&L and elsewhere

ByBeckyLeMo'ne

TI-ELHEFIALVEW

Sex is usually regarded as a taboo
subject, yet is also one that seems to
consume our popular culture. We see sex
in movies, TV, and music videos, hear
about sex in songs and stories, and read
about it in books and magazines. Indeed,
sex seems to be everywhere. When it
comes to engaging in premarital sex, if
people were to simply follow the examples
of popular culture there would be little
question about it: the majority of media
have given two big thumbs up to
premarital sex. ~

According to a Gallup poll taken in
May 2003,58% of respondents said
premarital sex is morally acceptable, a
ﬁgure that just one year prior was ﬁve
points lower. Views on premarital sex
seem to differ greatly based on political
ideology, gender, education, race, age, and
other factors. For example, in the survey,
42% of conservatives supported
premarital sex, compared to 64% of
moderates and 80% of liberals. Men were
more likely than women to support
premarital sex, as were the college-
educated, young adults, whites, and people
who attended religious services rarely or
never.

In addition, the number of
cohabiting couples has increased nine fold
since the beginning of the “sexual

- revolution." In the summer 2003 issue of

Youth Culture Today, ﬁgures showed that
the number of cohabiting couples
increased from half a million couples to
more than 4.5 million between 1960 and
2000. A Gallup survey of 13 to 17 year
olds also showed that 70% of teens say
they approve of couples living together
before marriage.

Even at Washington and Lee, a
random sampling of students revealed that

a majority have engaged in premarital sex,
especially among males. So what does this
say about our society?

Those opposed to premarital sex
argue that it degrades the moral values of
our culture, and counters the values
instituted in many religions. They feel that
the increasing support for premarital sex
is only further evidence of the corruption
in society. However, those in support often
argue that premarital sex has no serious
repercussions and that, since sex often
plays a key role in relationships, premarital
sex is helpful in choosing a lifelong partner

that will satisfy the sexual aspects of a »

marriage.

While there are valid arguments on
both sides of the issue and the emotional
effects of premarital sex still remain highly
contested, certain facts are difficult to
ignore: an increase in premarital sex leads
to an increased risk in the contraction of
sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. People who practice abstinence
until marriage are less likely to bring a
sexual disease to a marriage, whereas
people who engage in sex with multiple
partners before marriage are more likely
to have contracted a sexual disease that
could possibly cause severe pregnancy
complications. Therefore, if the trend
continues, premarital sex could present
serious physical consequences for our
society.

Whether or not you approve of
premarital sex, there is no denying that our
society is gradually discarding the ideals
of the past and moving into a future that
embraces a new set of moral values. Yet,
this is not an unfamiliar story. Each
generation must face a degradation of
previous ideals and learn to adapt to the
popular ethics of modern culture. Even
though virginity until marriage is not quite
dead, it is certainly notvon the rise, and
that is an issue that we must face
personally as well as collectively.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-’l‘UM PHI.

EDITORS-IN—CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST.OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

CXDPY EDITORS

7TreFlirg-t1nH1'spibishedMoridaysdimgﬂiemdergradiia1esdndyear
atW$h‘ngtonandLeeUriversity, Lex'ngton,Vrg‘nia
ﬂreFiy-unH1lsanierberdﬁePibﬁr.aﬁasBoam,unisdI'erMseirideperuent
TheFb'7ga.rnF’hv‘weIoornesaI| .
Alstbirtimionsmistbee-rnaledtophi@wtu.eduorIntheUniversityoentermailboxbyspm
Fn'daytoappearintheioIkwvTrig\IveeI(se(itic>I1.
ﬂreI=hgLamHiIeservesﬂ1engrbedtsi1xriissimsforoa1temarrd|er\gm.
Lettersandoolunrisdoriotrieoessarilyreﬂedtheoptnionof
Adverﬂsingdoesnotreﬂec1theorinbr'sot77reFI)hg-&JmPHori1sstaﬂ.
lliisnewspaperobseweswnawtaxindeﬁriiﬁorsotibelaridobsoerity.

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS '
CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

Blogs an excellent new fron-
tier for news and opinion

BYWNIMWDUNEV

(£\ERAI..LYS’EN<I\G

If you’re anything like most
Washington and Lee students, you’re
probably too busy/tired/stnmg out on
Red Bull to find time to read the
newspaper on a daily basis. Not to say
you wouldn’t check out CNN every
once and a while (okay...maybe Fox
News is more likely) or read a column
or two on the internet, but I think we
all agree that sitting down to read a
newspaper is a pretty time consuming
activity. “Yeah,” you may think, “but
if I had more time I’d read it every day.”
Maybe. . .or maybe not.

Susan Goldberg, executive
editor of Silicon Valley’s Mercury
News, speaking at the National College
Newspaper Convention, said, “More
than 80 percent of adults read a daily
newspaper 40 years ago. . .Last yearit
was hovering just above 50 percent.”

It is safe to say that the decline
in newspaper reading is due, in part, to
the plethora of new media outlets,
especially the internet. However, I
believe this figure is indicative of a
greater problem, a changing image of
the mainstream media.

The post—Nixon era saw a
stampede of journalism students,
fueled by youthful idealism and the
inﬂuence of Woodward and Bernstein.
Reporters were viewed as an effective
and necessary check on those with
power. *

Today, most people are aware
that the news is more a packaged
product in support of or against the
status quo, rather than an impartial
source of information. Do you choose
“Hearty Conservative” talk radio or
“Right'Lite” Fox News? How about
“Left Lovers” New York Times? Of
course, you ‘could always go for
“Manager’s Choice,” internet blogs.

The partisanship of media is
evident, despite the protestations of
media moguls (“No really, we’re fair
and balanced”) It is unclear if this bias
was created by the idealistic polarity
of the American public or visa versa,
but one thing is certain. The American
people have a growing desire to hear
the news that they want,.and to
discredit that which they don’t.

Add this issue to the lack of
accountability seen in many
newsrooms as of late (thanks Dan
Rather, Howell Raines, and Eason
Jordan), and you end up with a lot of
people sick and tired of mainstream
media. The result: alternative new
sources of varying levels of accuracy,
in the form of internet blogs.

Many initially picture bloggers
as bumouts, sitting on their couches
and typing their random opinions, but
in fact American political history has
a great tradition of blogging (think of
Thomas Paine as a precursor).
Although there may be a few bumouts
contributing their opinions, the
growing distaste for mainstream media
has createda demand for accountable
and well written internet blogs, much
to the alarm of traditional news
sources. ‘

To combat this threat,
mainstream media had been doing
everything in its power to discredit the
bloggers. For example, New York
Times recently ran an article entitled
“Bloggers as News Media Trophy
Hunters,” a blatant attempt to portray
bloggers as an unintelligent, unreliable
mob of two—bit writers (as opposed to
the highly intelligent and reliable
writing always found in mass media
today).

Yes, on occasion this is true (but
keep in mind it’s the intemet...you
could find a mail order wife while
combating pop ups advertising various
types of “enhancement”). The fact is
that there is a lot of junk out there in
cyber space, so if you wanted to find
some lunatic blogger and quote them
to discredit blogging as a whole, it
wouldn’t be a hard task.

Still, there are well researched
blogs written by both conservatives
and liberals, and that these outlets
provide an important service—a check
on the mainstream news media. So
when mainstream media decides to
ignore Jordan’s remark about U.S.
soldiers shooting journalists in Iraq,
there are watchdogs to demand
coverage.

Meanwhile, media moguls are
toying with ideas to make mainstream

news more appealing again to the I

American public. Here’s a few simple
ones for them:

1. Try harder to be responsible
in reporting, lately it seems to be a lost
art.

2. Hold those accountable who
are unreliable reporters. The only thing
worse than being found to be
irresponsible in reporting is being
found trying to cover up an
indiscretion.

3. Try being unbiased for once.
You don’tALWAYS have to slant news
stories, and in fact the story may just
be easier to stomach if you don’t."

Otherwise, in ten years we may
just find ourselves reading blogs
instead of newspapers.

...there is a lot of junk out there in cyber
space, so if you wanted to ﬁnd some lunatic
blogger and quote them to discredit blogging
as a whole, it wouldn’t be a hard task.

l 
Debate over minimum
wage misses the point

wca|eyAnuason

MIE?ATE’SMH\%

Even as we speak, debate rages
in the Senate over two conflicting plans
for raising the minimum wage. While
both Republicans and Democrats of
every ilk agree that the minimum wage
needs raising, they differ on the degree.
Republicans want a raise of slightly
over a dollar over 18 months,
Democrats want a two dollar increase
over roughtly two years.

Personally, I’ve always been
bafﬂed by debate over minimum wage

__ Vlaws. The purpose of aminimurn wage
is to ensi1’re'that those »w—ho_find_,,

‘employment keep up (more or less)
with the cost of living. The price paid
for this is to actually increase
unemployment (as anyone who has
taken Econ 101 can attest).

But as it stands, the minimum
wage is inconsistent and fails to meet
even the simple goal of ensuring that

the employed meet the cost of living.
The wage ranges across states; some
states use the Federal minimum wage
of $5.15, others set it higher (California
sits at $6.75).

There exists no state or federal
minimum wage, however, which is
even close, proportionally, to the cost
of living in the area where it applies.
Thus, debating constantly over when
and by how much to raise it seems
inefficient.

It would make more sense to tie
the minimum wage to a local price
index, as is done in San Francisco.
Thus, the cost of living in any particular
area would directly determine the
minimum wage, with adjustments
occuring perhaps monthly. Locality is
important; it costs more to live in Los
Angeles than Omaha, yet the Federal
government sees little difference in
their official minimum wage.

To sum, indexing the minimum
wage is a simple and efficient way to
guarantee that people meet living costs.

 

 

|\DDAYMA%-I7,ZI5

“I ’m so overexposed, I ’m making Paris Hilton look

like a recluse.”

-QUO'|'EOFTHEWEEKB:nnkomma

THERING-TUMPHI 07

Response to claim of W&L’s title as “Best School”

Dear Editor,

This letter is in response to the
opinion article “W&L is the Best School
in the Country” in your last issue. It is not
meant to take on the “challenge,” because
even without the author's calling for
challenge, my reaction to the article would
still be the same. Nor is it meant to offend
anybody because I take the opinion article
to come from good intentions despite its
ﬂaws.

First of all, I’d like to make one
distinction. It is not all clear to me whether
the article is supposed to be more of a joke
or a serious opinion piece. From past
experiences of reading the two school
newspapers, I know I have some problems
distinguishing between the two types of
articles. It’s probably just me. (Or maybe
not—for otherwise, another author
wouldn’t have to stress in parentheses that
“I’m not creative enough to make this stuff
up” in his opinion article in the last issue
of the Trident.)

If it is indeed a joke, my discussion
about the article would end here. But it’s
curious why jokes need to be published
“by the students and for the students” of
W&L, a school that boasts one of the best

undergraduate journalism programs in the
country. If the demand for them is
overwhelming, maybe the paper can
respond by creating a new section called
Entertainment, or more elegantly, Style.

However, the author seems to have
taken a lot of effort in research and
comparison to form his opinions. Calling
it a joke, then, might be a complete insult
to his work, and possibly, to the school as
well.

Granted that’s the case, please allow
me to be a little more serious here.No
doubt W&L is a wonderful school. But
saying it is the best school without solid,
intellectually substantial evidence, and for
us (the very people who, to a large extent
deﬁne what the school is) to say that, don’t
seem to lend very strong support to the
claim.

But what’s wrong with the article’s
evidence, which the author painstakingly
gathered from those not-too-inspiring
visits to the eight colleges around Virginia
and North Carolina?His single most
important criterion for judging schools
appears to be, interestingly, the existence/
quality of PARTY (or in its daytime
version, “out-and-about-nessf’). At Mary

Baldwin, only “one group of girls” was
outside at “cocktail hour.” At University
of Richmond, the author and friends found
something that “resembled a party,” but
only after driving around the campus “for
a long time.”

Finally, a party with the “potential”
to be fun was found at William and Mary,
but sadly enough, the potential didn’t
become actual due to the omnipresence of
university security. Only when this
criterion alone couldn’t rule out a school’s
chance of beating W&L did the author
employ a second criterion: academics.
This was how Elon University was
defeated.

The author, with no exception,
clearly knows it is not a very sensible move
to compare schools based primarily on
their party scenes. I must have misread him
by saying party scene is his “single most
important criterion,” for what really
concerns him is the sense of community.

He may seem to focus a lot on
“party-ness”, but it’s just his way of
coming to understand something deeper,
more significant about the schools, which
is reﬂected in the party-ness. But how
exactly does having parties or being out

Law student protests recruitment bias against military

Dear Editors,

I am writing as a student deeply
concerned with the university’s policy on
military recruiting on campus. As a second
year law student interviewing with Army
JAG last year, I was disgusted by the lack
of respect the school showed to its students
and the Army recruiter by allowing anti-
military signs and a small gay rights protest
to go on right in front the interview room.
This lack of respect hurt not only W&L
students trying to get jobs in the military,
but also brought disrespect to the law
school by allowing an employer to be
Heated like that. .

If this disrespect was not enough, I
am now aware that the Law School would
like to ban or restrict the Judge Advocate
General corps from recruiting on campus
if it was not faced with the loss of federal
funds. Specifically, it is Law School
policy that any employer, who
discriminates on the basis of sex, age, race,
religion, national origin, handicap or
disability, or sexual orientation, may not
recruit on campus. The policy has an
exception for the military due to the
potential loss of funding to the University
that would result from the Solomon
Amendment (a federal law which threatens
to take away federal funding from
universities that ban the military). In other
words, if the university had its way and

would not lose federal funding, it would
ban or otherwise restrict the ability of the
military to recruit on campus, because of
its disapproval of the military’s rule
against gay service people. A recent
decision made this a realistic possibility
by holding the Solomon Amendment
unconstitutional, at least in the Third
Circuit.

Regardless of the merits of this
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy, I think it
is outrageous that this university, founded
by Generals Washington and Lee, would
even consider banning the military from
recruiting, especially while our nation is
at war. While Irespect the valid concerns
many people have with “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell,” registering disapproval in this
manner disrespects students who seek to
serve their country, and brings dishonor
to the institution as a whole. I do not
criticize administration ofﬁcials who have
good intentions of protecting gay students,
just the way they are going about it. A
ban or limit on military recruiting at W&L
will not have any effect of changing the
military’s policy, and will only hurt W&L
students who are interested in serving their
country. «

As a result, I suggest that the La
School revise its anti-discrimination policy
from one of forced toleration of the
military to open acceptance. Instead of

the non-discrimination policy saying that
the Law School allows the military to
recruit because of the loss of federal
funding, the policy should welcome
rriilitary recruiting, out of respect for the
value of military service, and the hundreds
of W&L students and Alumni who gave
their lives in the military. In addition, the
school should strictly enforce its policy of
respect for all employers who interview
on campus, not only those who it
politically agrees with. This means that it
should actively ban protests from
interview areas. With these changes, the
university would remain free to register
its disapproval of homosexual
discrimination in other ways, possibly by
writing to Congress or acting as an amicus
in cases that challenge “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell.”

Most importantly, the hundreds of
W&L students and Alums whose names
are listed on the bronze plaques at the front
of the university deserve nothing less than
full respect for the military in which they
gave their lives, and the current policy of
the Law School, which treats the 
with disdain, demonstrates something
much less.

Sincerely,
Christopher L. Swain
Law 2005

of dorms/library relate to the sense of
community?How is it that “the student
body [at the University of Richmond]
lacks a schoo1—wide community” simply
because their parties only have ten to
twenty people usually of the same sex?

And even more peculiar, how does
William and Mary, where part_ies are
spoiled by university security, become not
only a “closed community,” but worse, a
community “which does not understand
how to share ideas in an open and
productive forum?”

Does this imply only parties, and
only good parties, provide “an open and
productive forum?” Is that why W&L is
“open to new people, experiences, and
ideas,” as the author claims? I sincerely
hope not.

Or maybe it’s not about community,
but about having fun. This too is abig part
of college life. But it's altogether another
question as to what constitutes a “fun”
college life.

Would it be too narrow a definition
for fun, all the fun, to be equated to
parties? I wonder what the whole array of
student organizations on campus is for.

As to the other merits of W&L

Dear Editor,

This is a response to the article
about the student housing changes.

After reading the recent Ring-
Tum Phi article about the proposed
changes in student housing, I decided
to explore the strategic plan website to
learn more about the school’s plan for
the future. I think that it is very
important that the plan be thoroughly
discussed with the student body,
especially because any changes in
student housing will affect the students
more directly than any other changes.
In my opinion, the student housing
situation as it is right now is perfect.
During freshman year, the new students
make friends and bond as a class by
living together in the dorms. Dorm life
is unique and essential to the freshman
year experience. However, once
freshman year is over, students look
forward to something new: the
experience and privilege of living in
Greek housing. Living is Greek
housing is a vital part of sophomore
year because it allows the new
members of each organization to grow
closer to their pledge classes by living
together. Currently, I am living in the
sorority house with my fellow
sophomore pledge sisters, and it has
allowed my to get to know all of them
better. We have grown so close as a

Phi Opinions

Got something
on your mind?
“The Opinions
section of the
Ring—tum Phi is
currently ac-
cepting re-
quests to join
the op / ed staff.
A E-mail
phi@wlu.edu

 

mentioned brieﬂy by the author toward
the end, I have no violent objections. I
would certainly be thrilled if they point
to one and only conclusion, W&L is
the best college in the country. But they
don’t.

But why am I so reluctant to
accept the conclusion, since I too go
to W&L and thus would be all too glad
upon hearing something like that, even
though it is very unlikely to be true?

As I said in the beginning, the
truly best school wouldn’t allow its
students to be consumed by conceit and
ignorance. This is not how W&L can
strive for the best.

Nevertheless, the article does
seem to prove something about the
school. How about the best party
school? (True, we are no. 2 in the
Princeton Review ranking. But I think
we qualify for “the best party school
in the positive sense,” for

“‘maintain[ing] a balance which is

unprecedented at other schools.”)

Sincerely,
Yujia Song ‘07

2 1.‘
\‘7

Housing change reaction

pledge class and have made friendships
that will carry us through the rest of
our time here at W&L. After
sophomore year, Juniors and Seniors
look forward to living independently
in off campus houses with friends of
their own choosing. The experience
of searching for a house, signing a
lease, and paying monthly rent teaches
life skills and allows upperclassmen to
have the independence of living on
their own, just like it will be in the real
world. Further, Juniors and Seniors are
old enough and responsible enough to
live independently in houses of their
own choosing, and this is a privilege
they deserve. Students who are 21 and
22 years old are adults and have the
right to live wherever they want to live.
Forcing upperclassmen to live in Greek
housing or in “off campus learning
centers” will create resentment, and
living in Greek housing will become a
burden instead of a privilege. I really
hope that the administration not ruin
one of the most important aspects of
life at this school and of college life in
general. To those in charge of this
strategic plan—please make sure that

I the opinions of the students are heard

and carefully considered before any
changes are implemented.
Sincerely,
Callie Ellis
Class of 2007

  $450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUAIS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call TODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with Carrpusﬁuridraiser.
Contact CampusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

yauﬁndit.

W0 hnvu

 

(metnmg scaimtiorxs. dmrgnag Hues.
summancnmpjons

 _301' the best sutnrrier at your
ltlte‘? Easter Saul» Virigiztia can harp
We are cmnnutted to
helping people with_d:tsabd111:lea gain
greater  .
dedicated team. this Innnrner at C-'an'rp
Euntocr Son]: Virginia in Graig County.
job up-onizngs tor

uoruriaaloru an-Ki

Join our

program lander-n

nqunlicu, hornnbauk riding, nunsic,

Roam,

C

Ind nulnry provldnd. ‘
irutocrrnaticn. contact Deborah Dueirk at
<:Ire1u.exJnﬁ'va.eastea.-aaaJa.cae»m or at
(540) 864-5150. Vial: our website to
learn hovwycu can make aditlierernce.
www.v’a..enaI:ec'sea1c.c¢n:

Pair

TRUNK SHOW
TRUNK SHOW
featuring
Alice Crotwell’s
RIBBON BELTS, SHAWLS,

and

REALLY COOL
Knit Flip Flops
door prizes
Saturday, March 12
lpm-5pm

at

TemptMe,Inc
20 West Washington St.

Karen Hite
'  -~ _  Registrar‘s Office
" ""Washirrgten«and_I_,ee7 University
Early-Fielding G06, 3‘i:‘ee+we._
Lexington, VA, 24450 

Phone 540-458-8451 Fax 540-458-8045 khite@wlu.edu

 

  

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

NKIDAY,MARCH7,ZIB

 

word

 

H

 

I\

-I miss Pi Phi’s army men on the front
lawn.

-Every pledge has to get every active
to engage in half an hour of cuddling.

-The sorority agenda for Saturday:
Rush Workshop #1!

'Hell Week suggestion from the Phi
Staff: Make your pledges work for the
Phi.

-Have the pledges reenact scenes from
Monty Python movies in the Commons
between classes.

IMake them pledge PIKA for a week.
That would be awful.

-Worst Hell Week ever: Being locked
in a room with Ieb, Worthy and
Walotsky.

-Is Dean Dawn going to play
basketball outside the coop this year?

-I heart sorority pledgeship.

-Have your pledges strip for Chi-
O...oh wait...that happened in week
seven.

-Make the pledges attend every
lecture brought to campus this week
by all the organizations.

-PLEASE PLEASE have your
pledges serenade the sorority houses
this week!

-I’d rather peel my toe nails off
one-by-one-by-one than go through
hell week.

-One week to go!

 -Hell Week is a breeze. It’s totally

overrated.
-Make me eat in Evans again.
NextIime’stopic:

Strategic Planning,
vvhat’s up with that?

Drunk

Dial

with caution

Play sport of champions responsibly

Bynugmout
Thai-‘sharmn

Cavemen escaped it. Even college
kids in the 80s never witnessed its
awesome power. But for the current crop
of college kids, such as you and me, it is
both a privilege and a danger that we must
approach carefully. When handled
appropriately, it can be as beautiful as a
magnificent sunset. And when handled
poorly, it can be as vicious and damaging
as a bad episode of “When Animals
Attack.” What is this awesome
responsibility that you and I posses?

Drunk Dialing. When cell phones
and a signiﬁcant amount of alcohol mix,
the results are fantastic. In past years
drunk phone calls had to be made from a
house phone and were a lot less
convenient, but with the spread of cell
phones, your ex-girlfriend who left you
“because of her, not you” is just a few
button pushes away (speed dial if you’re
a champ about it). Remember the guy who
cheated on you and forgot about you a
week later? After a few shots of ID is a
great time to call him and remind him
about who you are and how much he
sucks. Really, let it all out, because while
it may be painful and uncomfortable for
him, you will have no recollection of this
awkward conversation the next morning.
But beyond just calling people you really
want to give a piece of your mind to, there
are even ﬁner opportunities.

You know that point in your
relationship where you clearly are
becoming something with somebody but
you have to play your cards right to be sure
not to screw it up? Now is the time to get
blasted and give them a call. Not so much
because it’s the smart thing t9_do, but the

right thing to do. Sure, you may beginto ‘

tell them how long you have thought they
were hot and how you just are pretending
to like their friends to get to chill with
them, but there is an honesty there that
could never be achieved between two
sober people trying to carefully maneuver

~ '_ their way into a relationship. And much
’- like children can blame the missing

cookies on their invisible friend, the
next morning you can blame all of that
on the bottle. And here is the true
wonder of it all: if the next morning
they still want to hang out with you,
you can feel completely comfortable
that they understand your intentions
with them. Except the part about
getting a dog together...that part was
just weird and a drunken rambling that
made no sense.

Here is the danger of drunk
dialing that sadly strikes all of us at
some point: drunk dialing people who
you actually don’t want to hook up with
but have convinced yourself that you
do because you know you can. It’s a
vicious drawback to DDing, and you
can be sure that your friends will never
let you live it down. This is perhaps
the most vicious and, sadly enough,
common type of Drunk Dialing.
Treatment includes using the buddy
system (girls, you know when she
shouldn’t be talking to that guy, so
don’t let her call him...unless its
me...then just let it slide...just
kidding), deleting numbers from your
cell phone, or even just giving your
phone away when you feel the urge to
call that girl who would be incredible
so long as the lights are off and no one
ever ﬁnds out. In the end, you have to
ﬁght to keep your self-respect as you
keep drinking.

I write the DD article for this
week because I believe that having just
ﬁnished registration we are turning our
eyes to the glorious Spring Term.
Although Drunk Dialing is a sport that
is played year long, it certainly has a
season in which it reigns supreme.
Spring is this season. Because its warm
and life is great, it can be a recipe for
either disaster or glory. So let us all
enjoy the privilege and responsibility
that comes with a gin bucket and a cell
phone. But remember, a drunken
marriage proposal to that cute girl in
your Bio class can be as painful to
watch as a raccoon stuck in a glove
compartment on “When Animals
Attack 6.”

 

Public urination, ﬂip ﬂops
top Potato Man’s stupid list

Bylvlashannue
Ptmbll/H1

I’ve done some pretty stupid things
in my day. Some things were done under
the inﬂuence of alcohol, others under the
inﬂuence of girls and the rest under the
inﬂuence of the superego.

But I have recently seen some very
stupid things done in the world, and in
order to make myself feel smarter and
more mature, I am going to list off the
stupidest things that I have recently seen
done.

1 — There have been many times that
I have woken up on a beautiful Saturday
morning and asked myself what I wanted
to do that day. Never has my answer been,
“I should get ripped and urinate in the
middle of the downtown parade.” But, to
each his own, I suppose. I hope you got
out of that sex offender charge, cause that
would have made your life a little less
worth living.

2 — I know wearing ﬂip ﬂops is a
W&L pastime. but when you are walking
around in ﬂip ﬂops in 6 inches of snow,

I know wearing ﬂip ﬂops is a W&L pastime, but
when you are walking around in ﬂip ﬂops in 6
inches of snow, you look like a tool. At least I
haven’t seen anyone in all out spring term dress

yet.

you look like a tool. At least I haven’t
seen anyone in spring term dress yet.

3 — Some freshmen are actually
looking forward to Hell Week. This is a
very stupid idea. Imagine the worst week
of your life, and then plan on it being nine
times as bad. You may look back on it
and say it was fun, but don’t ever say that
you are looking forward to it. It just makes
upperclassmen think of more stuff to make
you do.

4 — Going into an airport restroom
where there are numerous open urinals,
and using the one next to me. This is weird
enough, but then add it to the fact that the
guy then proceeded to try to talk to me
about where I was headed and who I was

Long live Kris

king‘

‘|'helVil<andCheeseGiI1

Today, I announce it to the world: I
believe in the power of the sippy cup. I
am not alone in my adoration of a beverage
container so vaunted and so superior that
the beer mug and the frat cup are left to
cower in Natty Light. There are many
worshippers out there, on the fringes of
society now perhaps, but one day, we will
rise up and work together to promote the
idolatry of our god. Hey, weirder things
have cult followings. for example, The
Grateful Dead.

I haven’t always seen the way. I was
once misled by the variety of drink
containers on the consumer market. But
Justine and Brittany rose out of the ranks
to be my spiritual leaders. And now that I
have seen the light, I can never turn back
to the dark ways.

Why is the sippy cup worthy of so
much praise?

First of all, the sippy cup is small
and portable. It fits nicely in an oversized
coat pocket for easy transport. But it can
still hold a respectable amount of H20
(cough, cough).

Secondly, if you’re a klutz like me,
the sippy cup is there to save the day.
Never again will you spill orange juice
(cough, cough) all over your white t—shirt.

the sipp

The sippy cup is also cheap. I tend
to lose things. (Check campus notices on
Thursday and Saturday mornings for more
of my carefully crafted prose.) If you
misplace a good flask, you lose a
signiﬁcant investment. If you lose a sippy
cup, why, only one trip to Wal—Mart and
your collection of drink containers is as
good as new.

Plus, unlike the frat cup, which
comes only in standard hues, - clear, blue,
and red— the sippy cup is sold in a wide
variety of colors. Why, you can even match
your outﬁt to your sippy cup! (And be a
tool, but I don’t judge...)

But, frankly, the best part about the
sippy cup is its ability to invigorate dead
conversations or to spark up a little
chitchat. The conversations tend to follow
a given format:

Drunken Girl: “Wait, is that a sippy
cup?”

Me: “Yep.”

Drunken Girl: “That is so cool. I
need a sippy cup.” ~

Me: “Yeah. They’re great!”

Drunken Girl: “Wow! I’m so
excited. You are such a trendsetter.”

Me: “Why, thanks.”
OR
Drunken Guy: “Whoa. A sippy
cup!” .
Me: Yep.

going to see and you have a really
awkward situation.

5 — Starting to smoke. It’s a horrible
idea. It is bad for you, makes you smell,
will kill you, and makes you anti social.

6 — Quitting smoking is even more
stupid. Nobody likes a quitter. Do you
think Michael Jordan ever wanted to quit
playing basketball? Sure he did. But he
knew that quitting was wrong, so he made
several comebacks.

7 — People that don’t watch
Desperate Housewives. It is the best show
ever, and I’m not afraid to admit it.

8 — Admitting that you watch
Desperate Housewives. You will never be
looked at the same way again.

ine’s
cup

Drunken Guy: A sippy cup!

Me: Uh huh.

Drunken Guy: Do you want to make
out with me?

Me: Not really. (Although the
answer would clearly be yes if that were
coupled with “I see you’re drinking 1%.
Is that ‘cause you think you’re fat? ‘Cause
you’re not. You could be drinking whole
if you wanted to.” Napoleon Dynamite is
so hot right now.)

Now, I know you’re feeling the
sippy cup. But if you want to join the
coolest of the cool there are a few rules
you have to follow.

The Commandments of the Sippy
Cup:

1) Thou shall have no other
preferred beverage containers.

2) Thou shall never leave the sippy
cup on the ﬂoor to be kicked and stepped
on.

3) Thou shall never let the sippy
cup remain empty on Friday and Saturday
nights.

4) Thou shall never leave
beverages to ferment in the sippy cup
overnight. (Chug it! Chug it!)

5) Thou shall never attempt to play
beiruit with sippy cups. It just doesn’t
work.

Long live my king the sippy cup.

Proctor explains showering at VMI

System has makings of a bottom—shelf romance novel a

After months
of frustration due to
the fact that the
water which comes

my room is more
mother-of-pearl
than clear, Ithought
that I would take a
moment this week
to . explain our
living conditions
within Barracks. One must understand
that the current plumbing and wiring
systems in Barracks have been virtually
unchanged since the mid-twentieth
century.

Compound that with our lack of air-
conditioning, telephones, refrigerators,
microwaves and even (gasp) televisions,
and one should not be surprised to learn

JonathanPnoctor

THEGUYNEXTDOOR

out of the faucet in ,

that, if Barracks were a prison, it would
be the third worst in the country. Oh, did
I mention the fact that we don’t even have
beds? We have a mattress (“hay”) and a
wooden cot (“rack”) which must be put
up before 7am each day (except Sunday,
thank God...guffaw guffaw).

As I write this, I am sitting in the
comforts of my home since I decided to
leave Lexington for the weekend; believe
me, dear readers, you wouldn’t believe
how much I appreciate sleeping in my own
bed.

We shower without stalls in an open
room with no less than twenty nozzles, and
in order to keep the water running, one
has to push a button approximately every
seven seconds. And thank goodness for
those buttons; they are quite adept at
keeping your mind off of the fact that, in
any other situation, our shower system

would have the makings of a bottom—shelf
romance novel. Approximately once a
semester, the plumbing in Barracks gets
so backed up that a yellowish liquid the
consistency of syrup ebbs up and sits in
our sinks for a minimum of two days
(prompting the following announcement
over the speaker system: “Attention inside
and outside of Barracks, DO NOT drink
the water”). Yummy.

This has not been an attempt to
portray cadets as “harder” because of our
living conditions, merely to explain why
we’re so damn miserable all of the time.
Remember a few weeks ago whenl spoke
of “those nights” when we go uptown in
an effort to drown our collective Pain and
Sorrow? Well, hopefully now you
understand whatl was talking about. Until
next time, neighbors: Illegitimis nil
carborundum.

 

U3
.>‘lt8~l_d

 
 

n3< 7o’l3
l"t0°

‘V

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

s

 THE RING=TUM PHI.  

    

Okay to go! ,

VACO takes the stage in
Charlottesville. Find out more
information about how toghear the
popular band in concert on page 4.

KoI|y’s Creative Comeback
University vice president reacts to Ian
Dickinson’s poem from last week’s
issue. See page 5.

Fast food '

Still looking for a place to eat before
Fancy Dress? See page 4 for our
opinion _on where to go and what to
avoid!

HOT TICKET

 

Party like the Pharaohs

After much anticipation, the long-
awaited Fancy Dress will be held on
Sat., March 19, from 9 p.m. until
1:00 a.m. at the Warner Center under
loads of Egyptian decorations.

Rae of sunlight

Lexington’s favorite local singer
Arum Rae will be playing her
soothing music at the Jordan House
on Fri., March 18, frorr_1 8-lQ_p_.m. pp

Pretty in Pink

The trippy “Pink Floyd: The Wall”
will be running in the Commons
theater on Mon. March 14, at 7 p.m.
and Tues. March 15, Thurs. March
17, and Fri. March 18, at 9:30 p.m.

SIMPLE LIFE

Reclaim your life

Whether you’re still "catching up from
pledgeship or starting to drown in
work as the term begins its ﬁnal
stretch, its time to buckle down and
get caught up with work. But don’t
let Fancy Dress be your last chance
for a good time this terrnl Here are
some ideas to start the feelings of
spring term that can still facilitate the
workload of this term:

I Gorgeous day and you get out
of class a little early? Use that extra
time to lay those books aside for
some pink lemonade on the

. colonnade.

I It’s Thursday night and you’ve
got work to do? The Blue Heron Café
has live music every Thursday night
that usually falls into the folksy .or
mellow genre. Take your books and
laptop, order a cup of hot tea, and let
the artsy environment feed your
motivation to focus.

I On that same note, The
Lexington Coffee Shop has an open
music forum on Wednesday
mornings starting at 8:00 a.m. Grab a
latte and a muffin for breakfast,
huddle down with your last minute
homework, and cram for your exam
to some laid-back tunes.

I It’s late at night. You’ve been in
your room working all day and
you’ve ﬁnally gone stir-crazy. Get in
the car and hit the highway. Blare the
music, sing out loud if you must, and
see the Blue Ridge Parkway when
you can truly appreciate the peace
and solitude.

I Sometimes, the best thing you
can do to recharge your batteries is
just go to sleep. Sounds simple, but
closing out of instant messenger and
the Facebook isn’t as easy as it
sounds. I

 

Tragedy struck during Wednesday
in the Lenfest Center. Lighting and Design
students working in the Johnson Theater
were alerted to an emergency when
technical assistant for the Lenfest Center
Stephanie Diggins ran to the class and
explained that Lenfest Director Michael
Gorman had fallen in the larger Keller
Theater, and asked students to «call 911.

Students Lisa Miller, ‘05 and
Kristine Holda, ‘O6 ran to Gorman’s side
in an attempt to administer first aid while
Lee Shubert, ‘07 called 911.

Though no official cause of death
has been released, the" students who saw
Gorman believe they know what
happened, “Mike was climbing the back
of an orchestra shell, which he wouldn’t
do in front of a student,” said Miller. “He
had been preparing for Saturday night’s

Every day, every event, every thing Mike was a
part of it in one way or another

concert.”

Gorman served as the director of
Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts since 1991,
when the Center opened.

“Mike was Lenfest. That’s the best
way to put it. Every day, every event, every
thing Mike was a part of it in one way or
another,” said Shubert. “No event will
ever be the same now that he is no longer
around. Every event will seem a little less
bright, a little less complete, because of
his absence.”

Gorman also served as faculty

- advisor for the Washington and Lee Dance

Ensemble. “It is not an exaggeration to say
that without Michael’s support, dance
would never have survived its ﬂedgling
years on this campus,” said Professor
Joseph Martinez, associate professor and
chair of the W&L theater department.

“Mike was a mentor and friend to
many of us,” said Nicole Risey, ’05. “We
worked on shows together, he helped me
through the insanity of my thesis, and he
tried to help me decide what I wanted to
do with my life.”

More than one student said that

l“i‘MCNDAY,MARCH14,2!I5 BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDEIVITS SINCE 1897 V0Ll.lV|ECVI,NllV|BBRﬂ’?1/
   Campus mourns Gorman
I Students remember Lenfest Center Directonﬂmemorial scholarship planned
°VE”"‘"""‘ I S ‘ 5‘§‘l?ZZﬁ§“3Z§’§f.?if?y‘i‘?.§§;T3°f§
T EDWOR-INCHIEF  LUGS Lenfest. That’s the best way t0 put  all of us, an unofficial advisor of sorts,”

said Miller.

“I wish I had had the time to get to
know him better,” said Malinda Smith,
’07. “In the limited interactions I had with
him, he always brought a smile to my
face,” she said.

Gorman leaves behind a wife,
daughter and son. His memorial mass will
be said Tuesday, March 15 at 1 p.m. in St.
Patrick’s Catholic Church.

In lieu of ﬂowers, the family
requests that gifts be donated to the
Michael K and Linda Gorman Scholarship
to support W&L theater students.

The One-Act plays this spring will
be dedicated to Gorman.

FURRE.ATE)AFmCl.ES
SeeRENENBEm4Gonpage6

University p ans facelift for Leybum

W&L investigates other examples of successful information supercenters

By Chris Lauderman
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Washington and Lee believes that
it is time to renovate Leybum Library.
Despite being one of the youngest
buildings on campus, the library built to
be a modern interpretation of the
Colonnade is showing its age.

The University plans on making the
library an “Ir1formation Commons” where
the library and computing merge their
services. Dean Larry Peppers headed the
Strategic Plan task force that dealt with
this issue. '

The task force report suggested that
University Computing and the library

should not join operations, but instead I

proposed that Computing and the library

restructure so that the student side of
University Computing—including the
HelpDesk—would be located in Leybum.
The large computing equipment will most
likely remain in the basement of Tucker
Hall.

Provost Thomas Williams pointed
out the many models W&L observed.
Brown, Wellesley, Connecticut College,

’ Wheaten, Dickenson, and Wesleyan all

have some form of an info commons.

But Merrily Taylor, Professor of
Library, emphasized less the notion of an
informati’6n commons and more of the
transformation of the building into a
welcoming place for students.

“Where the Commons is the
University’s living room, the library would
be the University’s study,” Taylor said.
“All kinds of exciting things could

happen.”

New plans for the library include a
café and coffee shop along with wireless
connection in the whole building.
Currently, there is not much room for
faculty and student group worksites.

The provost acknowledged that no
food or drinks in college libraries has
become unrealistic.

“Most [college libraries] have snack
bars or coffee bars now,” Williams said.

The heating, coolin g and ventilation
system will also be completely overhauled.
W&L will hire a consultant to come in and
decide the best way to handle the
renovation. 7

By moving portions of University
Computing to the library, space becomes
more problematic than in the past.
Building onto Leyburn is one possible

’ space needed in the future.

solution, but another option is changing
the way W&L currently stores its books.
. Williams said that the library
volume could be tripled by using
mechanical compact storage by
compressing all of the shelves into tracks
pushed together. When students need a
book, they will press a button and the
shelves will part where the book is located.
Taylor also suggested moving less-read
books to a different location on campus.

The digital revolution, according to
Taylor, will also inﬂuence the amount of
W&L is
increasingly getting journals and reference
books in digital form.

“As we go into this we will be
looking into student and faculty input,”
Taylor said. “We want to make the library
special and unique to W&L.”

Winning band climbs ladder to the mainstream

Four bandmembers come together to make Jacob’s Ladder a recent success

By Sarah Munay
NEWS EDITOR

When Jacob’s Ladder took the stage
at Battle of the Bands a week ago, the
atmosphere changed just a little. The
audience stopped chatting, turned towards
the stage, began paying attention. The
scene turned into a party environment to a
real concert.

The difference was noticeable to the
band members, too. “People were really
listening and really responding to
everything we played,” said Wheeler
Sparks ’06.

Over the past year, Sparks and his
bandmates have consistently turned heads
with its performances, which attract a loyal
student fan base. But Buffalo Creek,
scheduled for this May, could be one of
the last times that the group performs with
its original members: Sparks as lead
vocalist and guitarist, Pete Jones ’O6 on
bass,iguitarist Jared Meyer ’07, and
drummer Dan Fassio ’O5.

In the months that Jacob’s Ladder
has been on W&L’s music scene, it has
established itself as one of the few student
bands that places an emphasis on original
music and thoughtful performances,
playing the Elrod Commons and the
Jordan House as well as sweaty fraternity
basements.

“I would much rather play a small
coffeehouse show for 3 people and have
them legitimately listen to my music than
for 100 people who could care less,”
Sparks said. 7

The story of Jacob’s Ladder is not
one of good friends or cousins who
decided to form‘ a band. It was a
progression of chance encounters, of “I
know a guy who knows a guy.” The result:
a varied pool of musical talent, taste, and
experience coming together to form “a
cross between jazz and a rock/pop sort of
sound,” as Sparks characterizes it.

Meyer and Sparks began it by idly

picking up their guitars one day last year.
What started as a way to pass the time
became the origin of J acob’s Ladder.

“We jammed together for about two
hours and knew we wanted to start a
band,” Meyer said.

They needed a drummer. Meyer
knew that Fassio was a talented drummer
who was looking for someone to play with.
Someone would have to play bass. Sparks
had heard of Jones’ bass experience in the
Jazz Ensemble.

It was all pretty easy, really.

Their first experience together
convinced the band members that they
were on the right track. Sparks brought a
melody, Fassio increased the tempo to give
‘it a rock sound, and Meyer and Jones
pieced together parts of their own. The
end result was good enough to surprise
them all. '

“I think we finished it in like half
an hour maximum,” Fassio said. “It’s still
one of our best songs.”

That first achievement earned the
song the nickname “Confidence Booster.”
From then on, the band members didn’t
hesitate to use their bring—your-own-skills
approach to craft their music.

The diversity of their musical
backgrounds is what makes that approach
daunting, yet effective. Sparks is a music
composition and economics double major
whose acoustic preferences blend well
with Jones’ jazz-inﬂuenced style. Meyer,
though trained in classical guitar, learned
lead guitar the same way Fassio taught
himself to handle a drummer’s part——by
playing along with CD5 and records.

“I wasn’t sure how it was going to
turn out,” Fassio admitted. “The good
news was [that] we did appreciate
everyone else’s tastes, and we were willing
to work with them.”

With Fassio planning to pursue a
graduate degree in religion next fall, the
future of J acob’s Ladder is uncertain. The
musicians left behind have already spoken
with some possible replacements, and

£1 .
 ‘W’
-'4

STEVEN MARINOS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

 

Pete Jones, ‘06, performs with his band at Battle of the Bands on March 4.

plans have been made to record a CD
before graduation.

“It won’t be as good, clearly,”
Fassio cracked. “We’re taking it as it
comes. . .and trying to have fun with it."

“We’re definitely hoping to
continue playing together—if for no other
reason, because it’s a good break and
release from stress,” Sparks said.

Whatever happens next year, the

band members are resolved to retain their
musical integrity.

“To a larger degree, popular music
has fallen off as being educated and being
complex and being, at the same time,

enjoyable to listen to,” Sparks said. “In ’

my own mind, I try to bridge the gap
between well—written, studied music and
something that’s fun to listen to.”

 

  

%’I7!'fx:;Nzt;~‘»3G“v’(':=>.i  ...I’~‘-=.

u

 

2 -THERING-TUMPHI ‘   

 

 it 3,5-@‘ne,,;;3.m s-r.~..',a,,<:,.;
5R-‘if I ‘a
5;-I I

 

|V|QlDAY,MA|iCI-l14,%

n EWS

Henriques speaks on corporate crime

- Sahar Kamali / Stafl Photographer

DiaI1aHer1riquesspokeonooIpora1ecrimemd mediamalfunction inherspeech
intheunivecsitycommonslastweek. Henriquesisabusiness reporterwilhthe
NewYork77mes. Sheisanativeoﬁexaswhogrewupin Roanoke,Va.

 

Bysamlvlmay

NE\NSED'TU:i

New York Times business reporter
Diana Henriques criticized the media’s
coverage of white-collar crime last

‘ Thursday in a lecture entitled “Bad

Business: Corporate Crime and Media
Malfunction.” In her Elrod Theater
appearance, Henriques discussed the
recent attention given to corporate fraud
and its implication that journalists have
for too long accepted the words of
business executives at face value.

“If they can’t explain it to you and
me, they probably don’t understand it
themselves,” Henriques said.

Henriques’s theory suggests that the
terrorism attacks of September 11, 2001
drew additional attention to, among other
things, the business world. The idea of
the common man facing real danger in the
workplace threw the work climate into a
new light.

“Suddenly, it seemed that the
simple act of going to work and doing your
job had a special signiﬁcance,” Henriques
said.

Charitable institutions
corporations found themselves under the
scrutiny of the public to a degree yet
unlmown. Since 9/11, an unprecedented
number of corporate crimes have appeared

and .

in headlines and sound bites.

It’s not that there is more corporate
crime than before, Henriques said. The
fault lies with the journalists who didn’t
dig deep enough to ﬁnd the truth behind
the corporations’ numbers and public
statements. For decades, “journalism
existed not to police business, but to serve
it,” especially in times of prosperity.

‘The early muckrakers had a deep
sense of mission,” Henriques said. “But
commitment to that mission has been a
rolle,r—coaster ride from gullibility to
cynicism ever since.”

Henriques expressed concern at the
popularity of television outlets, saying,
“TV news has consistently done a terrible,
terrible job of covering business and
economics. Yet it is the primary news
source for most Americans.”

What’s more dangerous, Henriques
said, is the Internet’s new power over the
news industry. ' The risk of inaccurate or
uninformed coverage is as great as the
opportunity for spreading news.

“Somehow we’ve got to figure out
how to harness the good and defeat the
bad, or it will defeat us,” Henriques said.

Henriques, a native of Bryan, Texas,
grew up in Roanoke, Va. She received a
degree in International Affairs from
George Washington University and has
written three books on corporate fraud.

Harlem Gospe Chor to sing at W&L

GAB sponsoring event March 22

ByCtrisLauderma1
EDITOFHNC}-IE3

Evans Hall will be rocking to the
Harlem Gospel Choir next week. The
General Activities Board is sponsoring the
event that will be held Tuesday, March 22
at 8 p.m.

“I think it’s something everyone
should attend,” Dan Fassio, Public
Relations chair for GAB, said.

The idea for the gospel choir
coming to campus stemmed from various
campus organizations such as Onyx.

“We wanted to _do something a little
different,” Fassio said.

GAB has never brought in a Gospel
choir before and thought that this would
be an appropriate time with Easter being
so close.

" The concert is free and open to the
Washington and Lee community. Attire
is not formal. It’s on a Tuesday night, so

GAB knew that students would use it as a
study break.

According to the choir’s website,
the theme of their performances is bringing
people and nations together and giving
something back. The 2005 tour theme is
“God Bless the Children.”.They are
currently traveling the world trying to raise
money for various children’s charities.

The Harlem Gospel Choir was
founded in 1986 by Allen Bailey. The
world-renowned choir has been traveling
the globe since then performing for
countless audiences. They have performed
with celebrities from U2 to Whoopi
Goldberg and have perfonned for people
such as Pope John Paul II and Nelson
Mandela.

To preview their music, CDs and
DVDs are available on the choir’s website
for $18.

Fassio said that the Harlem Gospel
Choir has a lot of fun when they perform
and that they are “really, really good.”

“I think it ’s something everyone should

attend.
little different”

We wanted to do something a

New  Boutique if

' Extreme Fun!

Oakley
Maui Jim

For all your vision needs come to
' 203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

540-463-7440

www.newopticians.com

Co sy www.harlemgospelchoir.com

 

FounderoftheHar|emGospe|Choir,NbnBai|ey,ispicmredwiﬂ1BomofU2
Bai|eyfoundedthechoirin1986. Sinoethemthechoirhasbeoomeworld
renownedandp|ayedwithvariousartistsinc|udingLyIeLoveI1.

by 12)

Flowers & Things
Florist

For the “Unique” at affordable prices.’

Teleﬂora Wire Service

Corsages & Bouts

Gift & Fruit Baskets

Balloons & Fresh Arrangements
Daily Lexington Delivery (if ordered

0 All major credit cards accepted 0

Call 540-261-6300 or 1-800-872-6156
2463 Beech Ave., Buena Vista, Va. 24416

Four new
alumns to
join Board
of Trustees

Bysaahlvlnay

f\EVVSE]TCR

The Board of Trustees elected
four new members to its number, tl1e
News Office reported Wednesday. All
four elected members are. alumni and
hold positions of respect in their own
communities.

Andrew N. Baur ’66, a resident
of St. Louis, Mo., was a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity, an ofﬁcer on the
Inter-Fraternity Council, and a member
of the Ring-Tum Phi staff, along with
other prestigious positions.

Baur has also drawn fire from the
National Council of Women’s
Organizations, who attacked the
members of the Augusta Golf Club as
representative of sexist attitudes in the
corporate world. Their website,
augustadiscriminates.org, targeted
“corporate leaders with Augusta
National memberships and the
companies they work for”, according
to the St. Petersburg Times. Their
concern is that the “No Girls Allowed”
attitude on the part of corporate
leadership “possibly translates into pay
discrimination, glass ceilings, and
sexual harassment up and down the
line.”

The president of the American
Bar Association, Robert J. Grey Jr.
‘76L, was elected as well. Grey is a
member of the Honorary Order of the
Coif and was the Law School
commencement speaker in 2003.

Bernard Grigsby H ’72 lives in
Surrey, England and will soon retire
from a successful career as an
economist. A former Kappa Sigma, he
is heavily involved with alumni
activities and has received honorary
Omicron Delta Kappa membership.

The last new member, John
Vardaman ’62, attended Harvard Law
School and is an acclaimed trial lawyer
who has appeared before the U.S.
Supreme Court. During his time at
W&L, he participated in a slew of
campus activities and was the captain

 

4

A

 

MG‘DAY,MARCI-|14\,ZXB

THERNG-TUWPHI ° 3

shorts

 

THIS WEEK

IQDAY, MA£'l14

-Golf at L—R Invitational TBA
-Women’s Tennis at RMC 3:30
-Men’s Tennis at RMC 3:30

TLESDAY, MAFICI-I15
-Golf L—R" Invitational TBA

 Y,MARCI'|16
IBaseball vs Roanoke 3:00
'Men’s LAX vs. G’Boro 3:30 .
IWomen’s Tennis at JMU 3245
'Women’s LAX at Guilford 4:00

T|'lFSDAY,MARCH17

lWomen’s Tennis at RMWC 3:30
IMen’s Tennis at EMU 4:00
-Women’s Tennis vs. Roanoke 4:30
'Men’s Swimming at NCAA TBA

FRDAY, MARCH18

-Women’s Tennis at B’water 3:30
-Track at VCU 4:00 I
-Women’s Tennis vs. EMU 4:30
-Golf at Golden Isle TBA
'Men’s Swimming at NCAA TBA

SATURDAY, MARCH19

-Track at Roanoke 10:00
-Baseball at EMU 12:00

-Men’s LAXat Mary Wash 1:00
-Women’s LAX at Mary Wash 2:00
-Men’s Swimming at NCAA TBA
-Golf at Golden Isle TBA

SPORTS BRIEFS

W&L Men’s Lacrosse Defeals
F&M, 7-6, in OT(3I1 2)

Senior attackman Jack Murray
(Earlysville, Va./Albemarle) scored
off an assist from senior attackman
Gavin Molinelli (Northport, N.Y./ ‘
Northport) with 1:49 remaining in
overtime to lift fou1th—ranked
Washington and Lee to a 7-6 win over
Franklin & Marshall in men’s lacrosse
action on Saturday evening at the
W&L Turf Field.

W&LOul1doorTrackOpens
Season atW&L hvita1ional(3l1 2)
The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld-teams opened their
2005 season at the W&L Invitational
on Saturday afternoon at the Wilson
Field Track. The men placed ﬁfth out
of nine teams, while the women also
ﬁnished ﬁfth among nine teams.

W&LWomen’sLacrosseDe1eals
Catholic, 6-5 (3/1 2)

The 16th-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team jumped out to
a 5-2 halftime lead and held on for a
6-5 .victory over Catholic University
on Saturday afternoon in Washington
D.C.

W&LWomen’sTennlsDefeats
Guilford,9-0(3f12)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team improved to 7-0
overall and 5-0 in the ODAC with a
9-0 win over Guilford on Saturday
afternoon in Lexington, Va.

Efite V

CALL AT:

Lalli focused on teamgoals

BySad1Bloom
smoRsPoHrswRiTEH

I_,()()I<B\T(} TC) START A BIJSDVESS
OR
()\X7I\TII\1(3'.Y()IJR <)VV1\T Ii()I\/IE M!

Call us and vve will have your problern solved
“Io specialize in: Debt Consoliclation,
I-Iorno loan. .A11to Loans
Sxnall Business Loans. Pc:'sonnl Loans.

NC IJP FRCNT FEES
1 866-23' 6-82 88

It all started with backyard
games for Washington and Lee lacrosse
goalie Chris Lalli. “I remember playing
outside with my dad and brother when
I was a little kid,” said Lalli.

Backyard games didn’t last long
for Lalli, however. He soon joined a
competitive team in 4"‘ grade that his
mom and dad started and has been
playing competitively ever since.

Lacrosse took a more serious note
when he attended Princeton High School.
Lalli started three of his four years and was
named Princeton’s best all-around athlete
as a senior. He became team captain and
was named defensive MVP by his
teammates. A decorated high school

  

mind. ”

 

WALKER‘ WILLIAMS /

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER 'ch'15L3'i

athlete, Lalli brought his talent a step
higher when he came to the Washington
and Lee ﬁeld.

“Coach contacted me and I liked the
idea of a small school,” commented Lalli

on his decision. As a freshman, he played ,

in four games, allowing just three goals

“We have a collective goal as a
team to win ODACs this year. It’s
way in the ﬁiture, but we’ve all
got a goal of playing in Nationals
and bringing home a title in-

by opponents.

This year Lalli starts for the
Generals as goalie. He had ‘a tough
position to ﬁll after the graduation of star
goalie Ansel Sanders, but Lalli was more
than ready to take the position. “Chris got
a season to learn under Ansel,”

commented Coach Mike Cerino in his pre-
season press release. Lalli has performed
indeed, protecting the goal at each game
to ensure a win.

Unwilling to comment on himself,
Lalli placed the focus on his team, saying
“We have a collective goal as a team to
win ODACs this year. It’s way in the
future, but we’ve all got a goal of playing
in Nationals and bringing home a title in
mind.” ’

To do this, Lalli realizes that each
game is important. He enters the locker
room two hours before a game to talk with
his fellow defensive men about the
upcoming game. “We try to devise a game
plan, to develop a mindset,” said Lalli.

After four one—point wins this
season, the team is now focused on an
upcoming game against Greensboro. “The
game went into overtime last year to win
and we’re looking to step it up this year.”

 

ByJomBovay

970318!/VF§TER

The Washington & Lee men’s tennis
team played three matches last week, and
emerged victorious on every court. The
team improved its record to 8-4, and
remains ranked tenth nationally among
Division-HI schools.

On Wednesday, the team took on
Lynchburg College at home and
dominated, winning every set. Lynchburg
was playing its first match of the year, and

was unable to mount much of a challenge.
Paul McClure, David Shay, and Jon
Malooly took the ﬁrst three courts.

On Saturday, the men faced a harder
challenge against Denison College, but
still managed to win every set of every
match.

McClure led the team again.
defeating his opponent 6-2, 6-2; Shay took
the second court with a 6-3, 7-6 (6) victory.
Denison. like the other teams, was playing
its first match of the season.

McClure, ranked 25'“ in the nation,
improved his singles record this season to

CORBIN BLACKFORD I PHOTO EDITOR

Men’s tennis shuts out Lynchburg, Denison

10-7. and Shay, ranked 20"‘, improved to
11-7. The Shay-McClure doubles team
improved to 9-6 overall.

Sophomore Jon Malooly, who ranks
third on the team, described the weekend
matches as “domination.” On the team’s
prospects for the rest of the season, he
remained upbeat, commenting, “I go day-
by-day.”

The team faces two ODAC
opponents this week, first playing at
Randolph-Macon on Monday, and then
traveling to Eastern Mennonite in
Harrisonburg on Thursday.

TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALL GAME

 

 ac. .< , .

¢~w-  -
% ./
»/ {V

 

nnwashingtmauLeeBasebdImaninpwwb1e2i4o)sueepingadamemadasaurdayRandolph A

Macon. ThevvinsexhendedlheGeneial’swimingsheakto14garnes. FirstbasemanTaylorMcConneIlhitagrmdslamand
sophomorepitoherC|ayhonEdwardswon hisfourlhgame. TheGenerasrehmtoaclionWednesdayaga'1stRomoke.

e erraf

1999 Audi A4 lluatlro

KM radio. 12 BI] changer. good condition.
$11500. call 261-5598.

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa Rica. 110%
Best Prices!

fl   #1 Spring Break Vacations!
1

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
end|esssummertours.com

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier41 1 .com I
1 877 SEE POOL

   

Generals track
ﬁnishes ﬁfth
at Invitational

Spcnsﬁelease

S"O°TTSl‘FGWW|'KN

The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld teams opened their 2005
season at the W&L Invitational on
Saturday afternoon at the Wilson Field
Track. The men placed fifth out of nine
teams, while the women also finished ﬁfth
among nine teams.

In the men’s meet, the Generals had
three ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes, seven top-ﬁve
finishes and set a new school record.
Senior Nathan Johnson , who was named
the Athlete of the Meet, won both the 800
meters and the 1500 meters. Sophomore
Andrew Fischer won the javelin with a
throw of 145’8”.

Senior Steve Chambers placed ﬁfth
in the 1500 metersand sixth in the 800
meters . Sophomore Walker Duncan
placed third in the hammer throw with a
school-record toss of 136’, while senior
Chris Walker finished fourth in the
hammer throw with a heave of 107’7”.

The 4x400 relay team of senior
Norman Senior, Chambers, freshman
Steve Rivoir and Johnson placed ﬁfth in
a time of 3:42.02.

In the women’s meet, W&L had
eight top-ﬁve ﬁnishes. Senior Meredith
Walker won the long jump and was ﬁfth
in the 200 meters. Senior Emily Barker
placed second in the javelin and third in
the shot put.

The 4x400 meter relay team of
Ratzel, Christopher, junior Liz Twentyman
and Haws placed fourth with a time of
4:37.18.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Spttiallr SW .
273 Rnphine Road ’
Raphlne, VA 24472
540-348-5220 - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting ooimge nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic.
and novelty yams. kits. 0694195 and
accessories. Customer service from sum to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made 638!-

Cilforworkshop&dasslnformation.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunron
On I-81 /I-64 at exit 205, Rnnhinr. 4nu'les west on
Rom; 606,  Road. Located ond WOVHRS
fans that oﬁers "U-PICA ' apponuniziesfor fresh
fruit when in mm
Tues-Satl0:00-5:00,Weduntil8:1ll

__m.iumm;mlLf1ﬂ:__

 

4 - THE RlNGrTUM PHI MQ.DAyMApg;H14tgx5 >-

 

(nightly specials) change daily and range

range from $4.95—$5.95 and entrees

   

Tuscany Restaurant.

7'
S?‘
 t0 JOI'Cl6lI1 HOUSE l’1OStS .
0 0 0
per OITI1 1I1 local II1U.S1C1El1’1S '
‘ ~ BYEVSEMOOUV It provides anexcellent atmosphere covers of Jack Johnson, Sublime,
O 3W’FW”TER for a low-key night of music with your etc...along with audience requests. a
In - friends or in support of your friends. It These guys are really talented.
 Ididn’tknow the Jordan House is a similar experience to seeing someone You should come the next time they
U existed until last Friday. Most of you your age on VHl’s Storytellers——except play.
probably have no idea where it is the background stories are a lot more Next week, the Jordan House
ByKa|BShe"nuu either—but you should. entertaining. ' presents local musician Arum Rae from ‘
STAFFWWER kiekin’ roek-n-ro11side,” Located across from the Last Friday, Common Grounds 8-10 PM. A mixture of urban jazz and
sineeiast visitingW&L,the band Mirage on Nelson Street, you have hosted a night of acoustic music blues, her work has been described as
Listen up for guitar strumming, has gone from five members to four, but probably passed by this little building featuring student musician Chris classic, with a twist of Bonnie Raitt.

bongo rhythms, and Casio sound e1ir,s___ VACO 2_() remains true to its roots; without giving it a second thought. Kimmel ’06. If you like acoustic music _ Others say she falls somewhere

you may be able to hear the bnmpin’ fresh humor, crowd interaction, and musical Narrow, brick, and unassuming, the and casual, student-run events, it was a between Erykah Badu and Patsy Cline. y
tunes from here_ Variety, Jordan house blends in with every lot of fun. ’ Clearly, Rae is a unique musician who

Virginia Coalition, remembered for After releasing four CDs, Virginia other building downtown. Wheeler Sparks ’06 set the tone for falls into her own category and sets

their high-energy shows at campus Coalition presentsaplaylist of theirclassic V If you want to hear some the evening with a selection of original herself apart from the contemporary
fraternity houses, Visits Charlottesville’ songs, funkiﬁed eiassies, brand spankin’ interesting student and professional songs and covers. He and Blair Crunk ’07 music scene.

Virginia Friday’ Maren 1g_ new beats, and the 'oeea'siena1eighties/hip- music, however, it is worth checking performed a rendition of Ryan Adam’s She performs both jazz standards, V

The band will perform at the hop cover out. The concerts are a great way to “Sweet Carolina” just before Kimmel and original music, and she is known for

sateiiite Baiiroom’ attached to pian 9 Because they win be weekend start off aFriday night. came onstage. Kimmel also played mostly her eclecticism and wit. Sounds good
music on the UVA Comer. The $12 show headliners so close to the University of Thc Jcrdan Hcusc has been original musics but hc a1s0 Wcfkcd in t0 mc-

begins at 8 with college country/pop/rock Virginia campus, fans can expect a pretty Fcn0Vatcd t0 acccmmcdatc musical i

bands Monticello Road and Sparky’s Flaw, packed show Friday. . performances, and it seats about 60 ‘ V ‘
then VACO takes the stage to get live at VACO certainly follows the mott , Pccpic comfortably in the main I  know the Jordan House existed until last

10. ’ “the bigger the crowd, the bigger the 100m _ _

The Show‘ a part of Virginia party’? and after spending the nearly the The intimacy Of the setting lS        

Coalition’s “Ok to Go” tour, includes last three months touring outside of their Pcffcct fcf ihc kinds Of musicians the - - -

music off their latest CD of the same name. home state, the guys will ‘be ready to party -lcfdan Hcusc attfacisi iccai taicni where It 18 eltherjbut you Should‘ Y
Produced by Matt Wallace (known for his on with Virginia pride. and student musicians-

work with Maroon 5 and Train), the new For more about how to be a part

CD fine-tunes both VACO’s melodic, of the party, or just more VACO info, . .

acoustic, and heartfelt side and what lead check out the band’s website: . yi
singer Andy Poliakoff calls their “ass— www.virginiacoalition.com. H  m 0  b 6  g

‘

« , BvKristir»eEa-iv . . . . . . .
~ n_EMiKANno,EEsEGinL way past its deadline? (Sorry, Erin and rubbing it in my face incessantly. y
Chris!) Instant message conversations go as
Let’s list my plans for the rest follows:
Hell week is over. For of the day: i  -' " A Me: Hey, how are you? (I amthe
freshman. For me, hell month is just 1) Eat dinner. only person in the entire world that
beginning to rear its ugly head. In 2) Take a nap. (Clearly, I’m actually uses proper punctuation and Y
three and a half weeks I have a total worn out from being a loyal General’s capitalization on AIM. I’m just that
of seven papers due. SEVEN. Yes. fan.) cool.)
SEVEN. 3) Write paper number one: due Friend: i’m great how are u?
You may have been poked Tuesday. Me: I’m OK. I have a lot of work
with a cattle prod, forced to get up I have a feeling I won’t be though. V
at five in the morning to run six getting to number three. Once I get Friend: oh sorry i’m on break i’
miles and been at the beck and call under the covers, there is a big chance didn’t even get up until 2 today then i
of your brothers 24/7, but clearly,I I’ll remain curled up like a Cheshire went shopping and i went to the
have it worse. Anything that cat until my alarm clock rings at 9:05 movies with a couple of friends my
requires spending time in Leyburn a.m. It’s just a guess, though. mom made me my favorite meal life I
qualifies as torture. I take solace in the fact that is so good right now
Despite the fact that spring break is only twenty-five days Me: Wow! I’m jealous.
deadlines are looming, I have done away. I’ve already planned out how Friend: i know while you’re
little more than gather my resources I’ll spend my seven daysof freedom. stuck in classes all day I am lying V
together. Why? Call it lack of Sleeping. Eating. Watching Lifetime around watching tv and eating
motivation. movies and Law and Order (Special popcorn of course occasionally I have
Let’s list today’s Victims Unit, clearly). Shopping. to get up to go to the bathroom or
_ _ accomplishments: Visiting friends. Spending time with . something like that it’s a hard life it
ELLNUTTFPHOTOGRAHR 1) Waking up. my dog. Celebrating my big 2-0. Me: Yeah. I feel for you. at
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2) Getting out of bed. Sounds nice, doesn’t it? _ Ergh! One more month to go,
_ Virginia Common’ or VACO’ '5 _a band based In N°rthem'Vlrg‘ma' The" 3) Brushing my teeth. All of my friends back home are ladies and gents.’ Hang in there. And

recordings reveal 3 layered muslc style—rock, soul, funk, hip-h0P, go-g0, 4) Showering, on break right now. And they enjoy may teachers take mercy on our souls.

and bluegrass, created by their expressive lyrics and occasional banjo, 5) Eating.

keyboard, cowbell, bongo, or washboard jam sessions. Their live shows 5) watching baseba11_ ,'
intensify all the best things about their CD, extending their musical energy to (Though that did require walking to I take solace in the fact that spring break is only

the audience via chants and commands to dance, jump, and just “get live.” Captain Dick Smith field, which is. , —

The band has performed with favorites like The Roots, Dave Matthews clearly a large expenditure of twentyﬁﬁve days away- I U9 already Planned out
Band, Pat McGee Band, Counting Crows, O.A.R., Ben Folds Five, and energy 011 my part-) ’

Guster, and was voted the Washington Post’s Best DC Band in 2003. 7) Sitting and Writing this how I  spend my Seven days Ofﬁeedomi *
article And did 1 mention that it’s

. o o o

Lex offers large array of dining options ..
BVEHWEWHUS from $l9.95—$35. Check out their

"m'5A"D“FEED”OR fantastic drink menu, with a plethora of

different martinis and wines from w
Fancy Dress is on Saturday. California to Spain.

You’re probably sick of hearing about Wilson-Walker House

it. To beat this dead horse, the Ring- We love this place for their $5

tum Phi offers you a list of restaurant lunch specials, so their dinner is bound

options from which you can choose to be just as good. ‘Appetizers range 7
before the big dance. That is, if you are from $3.95-$6.50 while entrees range

capable of eating a meal by the time 6pm from $11.95-$24.50. Each meal comes

rolls around on Saturday. with their marvelous homemade rolls.

Café Michel (540)463-3020. V
This restaurant has quickly Sheridan-Livery Inn i

become a favorite of students since it Across from the Wilson-Walker

opened over the summer. Appetizers House is another dining option for you.

range from $6.95 to $7.95 while entrees Appetizers range from $6-9.50, salads

range from $l9.95—$23.95. The entree from $5.50-$10, Sandwiches" from $6- ,
price includes a house salad, a side of $8. Entrées range from $18 for Chicken _ _ ' ' ' ' '

vegetables, and a choice of rice, potato, , piccata to $29 for a surf-and-turf. They Cafemicheis iikeiheaihenine

or pasta. In true W&L fashion, they do also offer an extensive wine list, ranging eateries in Lexingtomoffersdivine P”°T° COURTESY °F F“"“°'S°° “'54”

serve wine, beer, and liquor. Hours: 5- from $23.95-$35.95 per bottle. cuisineandaiargewineseiec-ﬁ°n_ piedgeshipasweon°eimewitruumedt°washingt°na1dLee

10Pm- <540>464-4119- <54°>464'18,87« , University,ifon|yforaday. Phi Psi pledgeslitlieredlheﬂill posingas ‘r

southern Inn The Bistro on Main from $9,95-$19,95_ . . . .
A Sta 1 f M . S . . , _ , mimes,mal<ingPB&Jsandwiohes,andp|ayinggo|f.1'heywereaIso
P c 0 ﬂln ifcci, ihc D0 110‘ °Veri00kih1S gcu10hMaiu If you re looking for sushi, the . . . .

Southern Inn offers a wide array of Street. Occupying What Was Once sushi bar at the International Foods sp°ued‘a°h"9a59_a'9°Yie3a"dlU5tbei"9m°ihe”Y-Ai?°Ve'5Ma'i_(’

classic entrée options. Appetizers range Car01ine’s Bakery, the Bistro offers a market is closed on Saturdays. As for 11 Howe" o8perf°"mn9y°9a°nthefr°n“aWn- Fonhe R’n9'u”nPh's

from $3.75-$11.95, and entrees range diverse Selection Of entrees. including Palazzo? It’s closed for renovations at opinion,readthisweek’sstaffeditoria|onpage6. V
ffcm $10-95-15.95 Specialty cntfccs their amazing Crabcakes Appctizcis the moment and will reopen soon as the

 

|lﬂ‘DAY,NU\RCH14.,ZI5

“Life is just a mirror, and what you see out
there, you must ﬁrst see inside of you. ”

_ —Waly“Famous”Amos .

THERNG-TUMPHI 0 5

Ode to Snow
Cancellations

A Reply to Last Week’s Poem
by Dickinson (Ian, not Emily).

ByTm Koly

V|%PFESB\ITR]?CDW\/U\lCAT'O\1S

Who says the Administration doesn’t know how to take a joke? Tim Kolly sent
the Phi a humorous response to Ian Dickinson’s poem that ran last week. Read and
enjoy. If only all of our administrators had such a sense of humor.

lmaginemvsigh
As I picked upthe Phi
Andneadthepoemonpageﬁve.
lttold ofthe plight
Ofsludentswhoﬁght
Theelementstojustslayalive.

Thesoourgehereissnow,
lt’s slippery, you know,
Andstudentsgetkilledalllhelime.
1'heircars mn in ditches
Ortumbleoffbridges
Vlﬁlly-niI|y,wiIhoutreasonorrhyme.

l’vehearditspoken ,
Oftheboneslhatarebroken I
Merelytryingtogettolheirclasses.
Thatdoesn’tevencount
111einjuries1hatmount
\IlIhenIheyslipandfa|lontheir”behinds.”

But|an’spoemseemedtosay
  lnaroundaboutway
Thatwhen snowﬂakes inprofusiondofall
Thatnoclasses, laheolasses
Orregularlimeclasses
It really is Tim Ko||y’s call.

Thafsallnewstomep
I’m in bed,yousee
Whenmyphoneiingsatsixinihemom
lt’sthevoioe ofthe provost
Thatcallsmetomypost
SnowAlert!yousludenIsIwam.

lknowhowyoufeel
Pmaooginthewheel
Whenitoomestoadecisiononsnow.
lsaywhat|’mtold
Whethersnow,ice,oroo|d
You’reshoolinglhemessenger,felIow.

Myvoiceandmywords
Arelhosereadandheard
Butlsaylhiseverso humbly
Whilelrelishthefame
You’vegot1hewrongname
1hedecision isVVilliarns’and Beebe’s.

“Dating Doctor” to
speak on Thursday

David Coleman cleverly offers fresh
insight into relationships

DATING DOCTOR 411

Byemiysdwaus

AHrsAmuFEEi:non
Man: “How do you like your
eggs in the moming”
Woman: “Unfertilized”

Does your boyfriend have the
attention span of an ant? Is your
girlfriend more needy than a six-

  
  
   

week old lab puppy? Are you HQY $355’-n
yearning to add more pick up lines‘ Yov 3:? 3?
to your frat—speak repertoire? If you <3o}n3 on,
answered “yes” to any of these now how Woe?
questions, come hear David Coleman t me 3-

speak on Thursday night at 7:30.

Coleman, known to many
college students as “The Dating
Doctor,” will be giving a presentation
entitled, “Making Relationships
Work.”

A nine—time national Speaker
of the Year, Coleman actively
engages his audience through the
use of Powerpoint presentations and
his lively diction.

For those of you who have had

Coﬂlng

om

    

Man: “I’m here to fulﬁll
your every sexual fantasy”
Woman: “You mean
you’ve got both a donkey
and a Great Dane?”

CONTENT COURTESY OF DATINGDOCTOFLCOM

the pleasure of hearing the real-life
Hitch, you may recall his pick up
line challenge, in which Coleman
essentially dares you to out-do him
with crazy pickup lines.

You give him the first half of a

The presentation is sponsored by
pic,kup line, and chances are, he’ll multiple campus organizations, including

the Gender Relations committee, LIFE,
and Panhellenic.

know the last half. He’ll even give you
his Top 10 worst pickup lines ever.

SENIORS

CONGRATULATIONS - CELEBRATION - MEMORIES Q

W

 
   

GRA
Tues. 3/15 Wed. 3/ 16
10:00AM - 5:00PM

Elrod Commons
V

  q
RDER YOUR CAPS AND GOWNS *
PURCHASE YOUR ANNOUNCEMENTS

Graduation from college is one of the most important achievements in a person's
life, a milestone that family and friends want to share.

RESERVE YOUR DIPLOMA FRAME
(5% Discount on Grad Fair Orders)ﬁ

SELECT YOUR RING
REGISTER FOR MP3 PLAYER DRAWING

*Caps and gowns must be ordered during this three day event.
Orders after 3/17 will incur a $25 late fee.

 

 

 

. isn’t back to inﬂuence the case.

 

M1DAY,MARCH7,ZI5

 

Kudos to Phi

Psi for open

Hell Week

Last week, during the last

stretch of pledgeship, upperclassmen

were excited to brieﬂy see remnants
of the old Hell Week activities.
Pledges golfed on the front lawn,
posed as a gargoyle near the
Commons, and apparently set up a
toll booth on the sorority bridge. _
How did this happen?

The IFC sent out an email
inviting fraternity members to submit
proposals if there were any planned
activities they were unsure about. Phi
Kappa Psi submitted a proposal for
skits on the Hill and the IFC gave
them its go—ahead.

Security, however, stopped
the Phi Kappa Psi potential new
member who had set up the toll booth
on the sorority bridge. Dean Dawn
Watkins also received a complaint
regarding the pledgeship activities.

Phi Kappa Psi stopped the
pledgeship activities when they
realized complaints were being
registered.

The question is: Why did
these activities generate complaints? v

These funny, harmless,
creative — and emphasis on the word
harmless — activities should not be
garnering this negative attention.

The Ring—tum Phi applauds
Phi Kappa Psi for opening their Hell
Week activities.

We are not criticizing
security, the IFC or the
Administration. We simply think that
the witch-hunt for “hazing” has gone
too far.

L ups & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson has
ﬁnished sucking up to his profs to give
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&i. and around the world.

‘OHNOWDBIX

According to student feedback on
ratemyprofessoncom, the best
department on campus, with
psychology a close second.

0 Ubrary Sketehiness
I don’t know who the couple was, but
people, take heed— hooking up in the

stacks is FORBIDDEN. ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS ago featured the contestants creating an reflection of Someone,S _idemity_
cﬂms LAUDERMAN ad for Sony’s new” Gran Turismo” Of course, one anonymous writer
OC9n9f°88 _ _ - game. Each team hired a grafﬁti artist truly had it right when he ironically
10 POIIIQS f0!‘ 0111' 1_33t10Ii’S legislators MANAGING EDIT-OF; MARSHALL RULE to help them design an ad to place on scratched, “what kind of person goes out
£‘1.’:$l‘;ha‘;5d1‘s4C];B “‘.‘°g‘h‘;t1i‘ﬁh;’J.uSt NEWS EDITOR sARAH MURRAY  S:d‘:h°‘; ‘:1:’““fﬁ:‘g if‘ B":1°'1‘1l’;“'h“‘° ."f their Viﬁigctlf :lf“““““‘.’“‘ fin’ and. :31”
63mln- . V ss a eymerviewe a uge intoasi y a oomjus oscri e
want t0 Watch/P13)’ b35¢b311- ASST‘ NEWS EDITOR KATHERINE SHELL portfolios of all their work, and some nonsense on the wall so others can read it?”
OPNONS ED”-OR CALEY ANDERSON of the pieces were truly amazing. Maybe it,s art but maybe its
0 Judges ASST.OP|N|ONS EDITOR ANNE FINLEY Graffiti. in this instance, has become nonsense, I guess it’s just in the eye of the
Mortality rates for my hopeful future ARTS & LIFE EDITOR EMILY EDWARDS high art. beholder, and in the meantime, Chalk C811 V
profession are alarmingly high in PHOTO EDITOR OORBIN BLACKFORD I was looking up quotes online be appreciated by everyone.
‘°°°‘“ “’°°“S' LAYOUT EoIToRs CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE R o o
 emem term t e 1e 0
0GanyKasparoIv »
Regarded by manyas the best chess - y
professional chess to concentrate on CIRCULATION DIRECTOR YINYAN Ll   S   
putting the democracy in Russia’s Roy-IAN POOJARA _
‘(;li0bl(:4rl"1LdEe'1r“£0::1Iea1‘:1yl:)r\l:ti1s(;vIVia1:n :bout I3yLIsaIwIIerandNIooIeRIsey He laughed easily 3”“ °f‘““’ making
this, but if you dim.‘ know mi COPY EDITORS AMANDATHOLKE WHEATFEMDPS - anyone who recognized that sound smile.
where the hell have you been? V  Everyone who knew him can tell you that
I he never went without a kind word and a
' il ' h 1 'th
OMIIG Gorman smile and was always w ling to e p wi

If you are a theatre major, or if you
know one, you know that this man

Leaders can’t enforce cease—ﬁre,
associated political party distancing
itself, IRA members dribbling away,

the organization is dying a slow death.

this, especially if the Chief himself

  

Fade aWay- W&L of two years  
past only a distant memory.

ByCdeyAndeIson

IIUEMTESMSKB

When I first came here as a
prospective (almost exactly three years
ago), I was taken by my kindly. Honor
Scholar hosts (some of whom are still here,
waiting to graduate in June) to Salemo’s.
I remember being awed by the social
interconnectivity of the place; everyone
seemed to know everyone else. W&L
managed to set itself apart, in my mind,
from the other ﬁve institutions I had been
accepted to. It wasn’t just the friendliness
of the place, though, everyone there
seemed to have a kind of weird, unique
vibe. My host, a pledge undergoing hell
week when I visited, came back on
alternate days with a nearly—frozen,
purplish—colored hand, and then a sling
around his arm, which, unexplainably,
seemed not to be injured at all.

Then came my freshman year and
everything seemed to come into focus.
W&L was indeed different. Other schools
have greek systems, other schools use
alcohol (and in abundance), but no school
that I know of had the odd culture that
W&L had. I was never a part of this
culture because I wasn’t really all that into
alcohol, or fraternal bonds, for that matter.
Neither did I dislike the system— it’s always
been a peculiarly fascinating thing to me,
and certainly it provides both benefits and
negatives to the campus.

I think the primary reason this
culture is here is because there’s little else
to do in the fine city of Lexington,
Virginia, which frankly hasn’t been the
same since Dave Hunter burned it down
back in the day. The campus is not unlike
a desert island of 2000 people, detached
from the rest of the world. It’s a difﬁcult
way to live, because we really don’t have
all that much here. There is, of course,
the cadre of academics who pressure our
minds until they either break or become
accustomed and adapted to the stress.
Other than that, though, all we really have
is each other. Intime, we come to be closer
to a lot of people here than we ever were
with most of everyone we knew back
home.

Of course, much like a desert island,

things are fraught with intrigue, paranoia,

hierarchy and hatred. Gossip, rumor and

social climbing dominate the minds of a
surprising number of students at this
school, even above academics. There is a
very subtle order to things here— to the
value ranking of individuals as well as
groups. It can all be quite stressful, and
not surprisingly, the answer for most
students is the liberal consumption of
alcohol, which is the centerpiece of W&L
social life..

This culture, like it or not, is on the
retreat at W&L. It’s only necessary for
the sake of clarity to recite the evidence
that it is; the system’s supporters have
grown hoarse from screaming it. For
instance, there is the reduction of
pledgeship from the trying, even painful
and injurious process that it once to the
barely—tangible ritual of “new member
education” that is has become. It’s harder
to get into some facebook groups than it
is to get into most greek organizations.

There is the slow but steady clamp-
down on alcohol. The drinking age is 21,
they say, and the time has come to put
meaning into the drinking age law. I, of
course, along with most sane people on
this campus, including the administrators,
think a 21-year old drinking age is
ridiculous, and rightly so. But the law is
the law, they say, so wristbands and IDs
rule the day. In two years, I predict it will
be no easier to get underage alcohol at
W&L than anywhere else.

There are the little things. The
construction of the Commons has changed
things. The speaking tradition is dying a
slow, dragged—out, painful death. This is
a campus that hardly changed at all for
nearly ﬁfty years, and in the space of only
two years of my time here, it feels like a
completely different place.

Good riddance, you might say.
There are many who feel that the old W&L
was destructive to students, offered them
the wrong lessons about life and about
how to treat others.

Or, on the other hand, you might cry
for the preservation of tradition, for
defending the old W&L to the last.

Do the administrators really have a

master plan for changing the school’s
character? Is this change a good or a bad

thing? What are we losing, what are we V

gaining? None of thesequestion can really
be answered, but put on the Bob-Dylan,
because the times, they are a-changin’.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

THE RING-TUM PHI.

ﬂIeFb'y-amPhispIbIi§iedMmdaysdurhgﬂ"emdeIgradIatesdndyear
atwashingtonand Lee,UniveIsiIy, Lexington, Wgnia
ﬂisF§'ga:nHrlsameTberdTTePLbicaﬁuisBoaid,bInSdiiaw'seiidepaidat

77IeFthg-&mPHIvaeeNesItIerig1ttoeo1tsIbnmimsforoorIIentarid length.
LetIeIsamodumsdonmreoessamymﬂedteophbndﬂIeFtigamHiEdmnaJBoard.
Advertisingdoesnotreﬂecttheopinionsot 771eRI'ng-tunPhiori1sslaif.
1h’srIewspeperobsewaewna'vtooIindeftIiﬁorsd|bdarIdobsoeIity.

Just do it- success in

lies in gaining experience

ayAmeRnIey

‘ll-EBGPCTIIE

I’ve been thinking a lot lately
about what I want to do after college.
Yes, it’s only my sophomore year, but
I’ve never been one to procrastinate.
(Except for, apparently, in writing my
twice-monthly column, where my
personal trend has gone from turning
it in at the beginning of the week to
dangerously close to press time). But
seriously, I’m starting to understand
why there are so many movies about
twenty-sometliings trying to figure out
what to do with their lives.

In my case, coming up with ideas
has never been hard. In fact, my
problem has always been that there are
a million things I would love to do.
Growing up, my career dreams have
included, (but not been limited to),
ballet dancer, archaeologist, poet,
lawyer, Broadway singer, and
psychiatrist. It was the same story with
academics. I had to give up on my plan
for a double major because I couldn’t
narrow it down and didn’t want to limit
the kinds of classes I could take._

But I think I’ve found a good

/ philosophy. To borrow from Nike, just

do it. It seems obvious, but it is really
much more difficult thanit sounds.
Knowing what you plan on doing is one

thing, but making it a reality is quite
another. When I went to a roundtable
discussion with the directors that came to
the Worldfest Lexington Film Festival this
fall, they asked me to introduce myself and
why I came. I said that I wanted to be a
writer. One of the screenwriters interrupted
me. “You are a writer. Just say you’re a
writer.” But sitting there, I still felt that
saying that would make me a phony.
After that, I was determined to take
steps in the right direction. I’m currently
in a creative writing class, painstakingly
making my ﬁrst attempts at writing short
stories. It is stressful because I feel like,
more than ever, have a lot at stake in my
success or failure in a course. It is
challenging, but it is also rewarding. And
more importantly, I know that I am actually
doing what I have mostly just talked about.
The more I think about it, the more

I am sure that experience is the key. In »

taking classes which correspond to your
intended career and challenge you, or
ﬁnding a summer internship which does
the same, you are forcing yourself to step
up and look your future in the face. You
are also able to get a realistic idea of what
a profession, or a life, could be like. We’ ve
deﬁnitely all heard stories of pre-law or
pre-meds coming back from summer
internships that convinced them they were
in the wrong career path. But it should go
for everything. If you don’t want a surprise
after graduation, better explore your
options now.

Grafﬁti takes its rightful
place as artistic style

Iaycarassasiipiey

NT}-EFD\S

With Fancy Dress weekend
coming up, it’s my guess that our
campus will soon be covered with the

traditional sign of the Cadavers. The

addition of a new secret society on
campus is sure to bring about
interesting speculation. Will they also
mark the buildings with a cryptic
reminder of their existence? Even
though the Cadavers’ favorite media is
chalk and brick, could it be considered
grafﬁti?

The episode of “The
Apprentice” that aired a couple weeks

Mike Gorinan was a special
man to many in the Washington and
Lee community. Those of us in his

cabin for a wake in honor of our dear
friend. For the non-initiated, Big T is
Tom Anderson, the technical director
for the theater department. Alumni

Mike had a booming laugh
that could be heard in all parts of the
Lenfest Center every time it rang out.

the other day when I came across a page
devoted to graffiti. Each quote was
referenced to the place it was found,
weather sprayed on a wall, scratched into
a desk, or written in a random bathroom.
Among the quotes were observations
about the world, interesting bits of advice
and random thoughts. However crude or
humorous they were, each had a little bit
of truth to it. From “knowledge pursues
me but I’m faster” to “cancer cures
smoking,” the Cadaver’s symbol to
murals, graffiti’s image has been
revolutionized. While I don’t particularly
enjoy seeing bright orange paint spelling
out vulgar words as I’m driving under
bridges, I can’t help but think that it each
bit is art, wisdom, or even the tiniest

any project, even if he was already
overwhelmed with his own tasks. He
always had time to talk. Even if he was

A . was 1°-Ved and respected‘  theater family here decided to stressed, he ensured that you wouldn’t be.
_‘_ ’ ' A|stt>rrIis$ioI1smI.Iabe<.=rr\aiedtophi@vIr|u.eduorIntt1eUriveIsiiyCentermaboxby5p.m. 1-ememberhjminthewaythathelived- Mike was gnvoived with every
’. 0  i ‘ - H‘&"""""“‘ ' ~ — Fndayt°appearmmefd|°Vw‘gwed(Sedh°n‘ with laughter_ We gathered at Big T’s aspect of pretty much every event the

Lenfest hosted. He hung lights for almost
every show. He ensured that the stage was
perfect for each dance recital. He listened
to theater students and guided us through

importantly, our friend. Just so that he
knows, we’H be making some magic. This
one is for you, Mike.

G°°d ridda-‘Ices I S3Y- from far and wide came to celebrate a troubled times. He gave us direction and

dynamic life. Florida plates could be lent his passion for the theater to each of

Ostar Wars  III -,he,;,g,,,mp,,- seen in the drive and a ’96 alum joined us that were blessed enough to know him.
Trailers look good, but by god will I UrI‘~eIsityCmrrrrsRoom.341 us to talk about anything and The OneActs this year have been ‘

be pissed if this one turns out to suck  , everything, both that which related to dedicated to Mike’s memory. This is a

as as_the'Vlast—two. * I - TL9’“‘93“‘§zg4"%)"a2445° Mike and that which was somewhere fitting, even if inadequate, memorial to

L  " L « Fax' (5% )458_4o59Em out in left field.f :;hteNS£lfI1lflﬂ(3lalI)1eI him. file was the glue tlh/ntkheld them

-  (f E-ma]: -@W,U.edu presence was proo a e W toget er in years past. i e was our

Even the Rehnquist Court won't pass  sorely missed. mentor, our teacher, our savior, and, most

 

Y

IVIQDAYJVIARCI-I14.,ZXﬁ

“If you go to Vegas and bet a dollar on the Royals

making the playoﬁs, your potential payout is 100%

of the money there is in the entire world.”

QLl0TE0FTHEWEEKJonaoisarumrwebsnenogessiveeonwan ,

THERING-TUMPHI 0 7

Free your mind from the OC and prime ti]

ByBeckyLeMo'ne

Tl-E UBERALVlEW

It is always the same, each Thursday
from eight to nine ‘o’ clock some of my
friends mysteriously disappear.

No, they are kidnapped.

While I am out either being
productive or avoiding productivity by
actually enjoying life, they are wasting
away in front of a television screen,
immersed in the lives of non—existent
people that they wish they could be.

Yes, the OC mercilessly kidnaps my
friends, each and every week, and I am
powerless to stop it.

This would not be too annoying, if
it weren’t for the fact that they are also
kidnapped weekly by Desperate
Housewives, One Tree Hill, Alias, ER, and
Extreme Makeover, among others.
Religiously watching TV seems to have

become a central part of W&L life, and
that is unfortunate.

You might argue that TV is relaxing,
and I won’t disagree there. Mindless
entertainment that transports you from
reality is indeed relaxing, and I have no
problem with people who choose TV as a
means of escaping theldrudgery and
intensity of classes.

However, I am disgusted by people
who center their lives on whether or not
Marissa is a lesbian or if Seth and Summer
wiH get back together.

When TV shows begin interfering
with daily activities, in essence real life,
then TV is no longer a relaxation
technique, it is simply an obsession.

Another argument is that TV creates
bonding among TV watchers, since most
of the time at W&L people gather in large
groups to enjoy an episode of their favorite
TV show.

How do a few laughs and gossip
about what the next episode has in store
represent real bonding in any way at all?
A bond, as deﬁned by dictionarycom, is
“a close personal relationship.”

If all you are doing is staring at a
screen, laughing at the impossible
situations that unrealistic characters
experience, how are you able to form a
close and personal relationship with the
person sitting next to you?

Friendship involves more than
regarding ﬂickering images on a TV
screen. TV is not a means of bonding;
rather, it is a means of avoiding reality,
and thus a way to avoid real bonding with
those around you.

People also seem to have this
misconceived notion that they can actually
relate to the characters.

Maybe they can relate to the
common feelings of love or hate, but, in

context, how can they relate to characters
that are never in real-life situations?

For example, how many times have
you kissed or been kissed in the
“Spiderman” position?

To examine a TV show with long-
standing popularity, look at Friends.

Five twenty-something year olds
with low—paying jobs, such as waiting
tables and acting, living together in
relatively nice, spacious apartments in
New York City... how realistic is that?

Not very.

While it may be convenient and
agreeable to our consciences to believe
that most people have carefree and easy
lives like that, it would be a stretch to say
that, in reality, life would run so smoothly.

Even at W&L, despite popular
belief, most of the students don’t lead lives
as glamorous as the characters on the OC
do.

rne’s television schedules

So, if you honestly feel like your life
or love life is a mirror of the OC, then
congratulations, you have never had to
deal with reality.

I am not asking for, and do not
expect a dramatic anti-television
movement.

I simply hope that at least one
religiously devoted TV watcher will step
back and realize the folly of his or her
ways, and make an attempt not to fall
further into the trap of corporate media.

Missing one episode for a change
will not kill you; it will only make you
stronger.

So, when given the choice to
experience real life or to hide from it,

I hope you will make the right
decision. However, if, despite your best
intentions, you can’t possibly survive
without the OC, I suggest investing in a
VCR.

Prof. DeLaney supports academic freedom for University speakers

Dear Editor,

Student organizations have
brought an amazing variety of speakers to
campus this year, and for that they should
be complimented. In past years I have not

always been happy with the line-up of

speakers because they almost always
represented one political perspective, and
a university must be a place where all
ideologies and topics are open to full
discussion and debate. Intellectually
curious students should have exposure to
a full array of speakers, and those speakers
should never be censored because of
ideology or radicalism.

Just a couple of weeks prior to
the presidential election, Students for Life
brought Jesse Lee Peterson to campus, an
ultra—conservative black minister who is
hyper-critical of the black community, and

no one condemned that choice more than
me. The title of his lecture was highly
inflammatory and prejudicial; yet in
retrospect I am glad Reverend Peterson
came to Washington and Lee. His talk was
controversial enough to generate a
conversation within the student body that
has led to the variety of speakers that we
have seen.

No speaker, however, has
generated greater controversy than Angela
Davis, and that debate has persisted for
nearly two months. As a professor who
teaches African American history, I was
delighted to have her here for two reasons.
First, the “black power” movement and
“black nationalism” are two themes I cover
in my classes, and she represents both.
Second, there is a fundamental difference
between the views of black _an;dV white

Americans, and the black community has
great admiration for Angela Davis. More
important, her presence seemed to
demonstrate that the student body has
discovered the importance of diversity of
opinion and academic freedom. The ﬂap
over her visit has caused me to rethink my
own commitment to academic freedom.
More than forty years ago, a
student religious group at W and L took
the initiative to invite Dr. Martin Luther
King to campus. Washington and Lee was
a segregated institution at the time, and
the Board of Trustees quickly rescinded
King’s invitation. University President
Fred Cole and an outraged faculty
defended thestudents’ choice and asserted
the importance of academic freedom. Dr.
King never spoke-at here, and no one
learned more about the folly of censoring

Project horizonPresident praises BRAVE abuse

Dear Editors,

I congratulate and thank Heather
Owens and all the Washington and Lee
students who organized and participated
in the recent Beauty Revue Against Violent
Encounters (BRAVE) events. Your efforts
to combat domestic violence in our
community are vital. By all accounts, the
events were a resounding success.

I would like to correct a couple of

' errors in Katherine Greene’s story in the

March 17 Phi, in statements attributed to
Ms. Owens:

“‘[Victims of domestic abuse] had
no place to turn,’ said Owens, who accuses

J
ofaama@/
r/T

FINE LINGERIE

sluzpewear
strapless
. hosiery
slips

check us out p
for all your Fancy Dress
foundations

21 W. Nelson St.

463-6963
Mon - Fri 10-5:30
Sat 10-5

“sanperublsububl”

both the community and authorities in
Lexington of denying the problem and
refusing to help victims of domestic
violence....’[T]he law in this town won’t
help.”’ Since 1985, Project Horizon has
served local victims of domestic and
dating violence and sexual abuse.

Our staff of 12 provides services
including safe shelter at Lisa’s House for
up to 30 days, professional counseling,
guidance through the legal system and
resources to help clients make decisions
about their future. Last year, we served 286
local clients, including 81 women and
children sheltered in Lisa’s House, which

~.,..._..‘......~.,...»..........-...._.......,......-».,,,»..,....«l....-Z«L.~..«

averaged four clients a night. In addition,
Project Horizon staff provided 460
educational programs to 3,200 community
residents.

Local law enforcement officials
have proven deeply sensitive to the needs
of Project Horizon’s clients. Our
relationship with police and sheriff’s
deputies is excellent.

Our clients have solid allies and
advocates in their ranks. Representatives
of our local Commonwealth’s Attorneys’
offices and the local courts sit on our
volunteer board of directors. Aformer
police ofﬁcer is on Project Horizon’s staff.

w......,a... _.. Niﬁﬁﬁ ......_,_.,..,...,.»"¢~,.

speakers than the student religious group
and the faculty. The trustees were wrong!

If this university is to occupy a
place among the highly ranked universities
in this nation, it cannot and must not
censor speakers, no matter how
outrageous. We must commit ourselves
to academic freedom and free speech.
Intellectually curious students and faculty
members must always have the
opportunity to hear a wide array of
speakers. I doubt whether either Jesse Lee
Peterson or Angela Davis converted
anyone to their views while on campus,
but the campus is much richer because we
dared to provide a forum for both of them.
Washington and Lee students are bright,
not gullible. They are not easily
impressionable. More important, both

students and faculty were able to hear‘

beneﬁt, makes Phi corrections

Ms. Owens is further quoted:
“W&L has been such a great help to my
cause, in a community that has the attitude
that abuse doesn’t happen here.”

Last year, more than 85 volunteers
— including Washington and Lee students
— gave nearly 4,000 hours of their time to
Project Horizon. Among other duties, they
answered 726 calls on our 24-hour hotline
(463-2594).

Six years ago, hundreds of local
volunteers joined us in building Lisa’s
House, demonstrating that this community
cares deeply about serving the victims of
domestic violence.

those speakers and discuss or debate
their merits. The only regrettable part
of the debate is that some of us said
they were inappropriate choices. And
I confess to having said as much about
Peterson. I will never do that again.
But I will argue for variety, for diversity
of opinion, and I will support the right
of students to bring anyone to campus.
My hope is that we continue to hear
both the right and the left and
everything between.

Sincerely,
Theodore C. DeLaney ‘85
Associate Professor of History

Again, congratulations and thanks
to those of you who made BRAVE a
success.

And to the Phi editors, I am always
happy to provide your reporters.with facts
about this community’s support for Project
Horizon and its clients.

Cheers,

Brian Richardson

Journalism Department Head

President, Project Horizon Board of
Directors

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call 'IO11AY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CampusFundraiser.
Contact CarnpusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

you ﬁnd it.

acrunaplors

rtahlra,

SUMMER CLRIPIOBB

 the beat mnnmer cafyour
lite? Easter Seals  can help
We are caruxnitlaad ta
helping people  disaibilitiea gain
greater  nce.
d.ed1c'.a.i.ed. iearn. this aru.nn'ner' at Caxrrp
Enator Seals Vixgizda in Craig Country.
We haavu job openings for cauup
arid prograrn Lender:
( , haraabauk riding,
apart: and moan}.
board and aalnxy provided.
iruﬁorrnaticm. contact Deborah Duet): at
<:l;duerJn@v=a.eas*taraaa.1a.c:orn or at
(540) 884-6260. Visit our webaite to
learn how you man rnake a. cliﬂerence.
www.va.easteraaaJa.cmn

-Join our

xrnnaic,
Rocun,

Pow

Harlem
ospel Choir
Evans Hall  

March 22, 8 p.m.
Sponsored by GAB  

  

 

 

    
  

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MQlDAY,MARCH14,21XB

-Hmm...does my opinion really
matter?

lWhy, again was I not invited to be on
a task force?

‘ -I think the students should stop

whining. If you really cared about the
strategic plan, you would have gone to
the information sessions earlier in the
year. ~

-Let’s strategically plan to get rid of
the Colonnade. The only thing it does
is remind us that we’re not Swarthmore
or Davidson.

-1 love anything that requires
plans...The school planning ten years
ahead...now that’s cool.

.As long as the school plans for a
Starbucks somewhere on campus, I’ll
be happy.

-Don’t ‘strategic plans cost a lot of
money? I guess my mother is going to
have to take up a second job to pay for
my rising tuition costs.

-What’s the strategic plan?

-The strategic plan is going to kill
the Greek System and no one cares.

-It can be summed up in one
word...Strategery.

-For being such a Republican
school, you would think more people
would care about tuition and room
and board prices increasing. I mean,
it’s like the same thing as your taxes
going up.

-Clearly everyone in the
administration is a genius. We
should just blindly follow their lead
and shake our heads in agreement.

-Strategic planning is a good thing.
How else would we function as a
university if we didn’t set goals?

Nextﬁme’stopic:
FancyDnessand
paitystories

Selling out  
feels so good

Lex—town needs Starbucks, Chipotle

By:-iugmout
'|T‘eFdierrna1

The title of this week’s article is
appropriate for several reasons. First, I
feel I am morally obligated to inform my
readers how quickly I sold out, and how
great it felt. As some of my more
consistent readers may remember, I wrote
an article espousing the wonders of Red
Bull and how great an asset it can be in
times of stress. Well, the good people at
Red Bull (1 don’t know how they read the
article) were nice enough to give me a
bunch of free Red Bull and some other
stuff, which needless to say helped me get
through hell week. In all honesty, I had
no idea such a thing could happen, but hey,
I’m not complaining. So, in case you’re
wondering, this will be the basis for future
articles I am planning: “Rolex: What else
is there?” and “TiVo is for cool people.”
Keep your ﬁngers crossed.

But beyond my personal sell-out,
there is another case in which selling out
is badly needed. Speciﬁcally, the historic
town of Lexington needs to sell out harder
than Cuba Gooding Jr. did after Jerry
McGuire. While there can be a persuasive
argument made for maintaining the
integrity of a town steeped in tradition and
rich historical background, there also can
be a pretty damn good argument for selling
out. . '
While coming from D.C. it is nice
to not worry about crime and traffic, there
are things that I miss every day while in
Lex-town. For example, those who are
lucky enough to come from an area with a
Chipotle know that Lexington needs such
an amazing burrito shop. I have also talked
with several friends of mine who discussed
their hope for a Starbucks. While that isn’t
nearly as much on my radar as the
Chipotle, I enjoy hearing others desire for
such franchises. But why, you might ask,
should Lexington sell its soul to a bunch
of franchises that can be found everywhere
else?

Because it feels good, and
Lexington needs to realize it can
maintain its integrity as a historic site
while serving fast—food. Besides, a
town with a Wal-Mart five minutes
away, keeping out Chipotle (I am not
sure that an attempt has been made to
keep Chipotle out, but I hear that a
Starbucks was indeed blocked) in
order to maintain its mom—and-pop
shop feel is like Michael Jackson
hanging a baby out a window and then
refusing to do interviews because the
media makes him looks strange. Once
Wal-Mart has moved in, big corporate
America is already there and there is
no going back, so you might as well
enjoy.

It’s ﬁne to sell out every once in
a while, but then there are those who
take it too far. These include the
Backstreet Boys (I was a fan of them
until they became so image-obsessed
and went all commercial. . .they forgot
it’s about the music), whoever provides
my cable (thanks for changing all the
channels on me in the middle of Hell
Week, that was really convenient) and
the NHL (not the ‘owners, not the
players, but every single person
involved). These people are not the
cool, commercial-friendly people, like
wonderful Hilary Duff, they are more

like trashy reality TV stars. They don’t ‘

know where to draw the line.

So go out and enjoy selling out
a little bit; It’s safe and good fun for
everyone, just don’t take it too far,
because its one thing to get a bunch of
free Red Bull, but it’s another to end
up with a bunch of bad tasting Coors
Lite. After all, why would you drink
that horrible stuff when you could enjoy
the cool, refreshing taste of Bud Lite
with its superior taste and higher
quality? In an unrelated note, all
packages containing beverages should
be directed to The Fisherman at PO.
Box 4493 of the Lexington Post Ofﬁce.
(Can’t blame me for trying).

OncejWal—Mart has moved in, big corporate
America is already thereiand there is no go-
ing back, so you might as well enjoy. '

Do FD the right way

Breka gives advice from ﬁnding a date to ﬂowers

ByEkaA|<pd<'pmdBreeMellm

Bde

We’re Breka (pronounced break-
uh); you may have heard it muttered in
awe and admiration on the Beirut tables.
But it has come to be so much more than
a team name. It’s two single girls that take
W&L’s social scene by storm. We know
it all, we’ve seen it all and now we’re
gonna share it all! Well maybe not what
happened last weekend, but everything
else.

This brings us to the topic of this
week’s column: Fancy Dress—what to do,
what not to do and how to score (maybe?).
“Like build her a cake or something.”
First off, who should you ask? Well,_unlike
the majority of this campus, we feel you
should ask someone that goes to this
school. Exceptions to this rule include,
and only include: actual facebook ofﬁcial
significant others (this does not include
your best friend from 4"‘ grade, you can
see them in the summer), friends with
terminal diseases, and people that pay you
large amounts of money, but even that’s a
little shabby. I mean really people, with a
campus that’s almost 50/50 there’s just no
excuse. Well, maybe there is one
acceptable excuse: to cop—out and instead
of taking a chance for some sketchy dance
ﬂoor action, you take a road trip. Oh no
wait, YOU’RE GOING, end of story. FD
weekend is not the time to bond with your
brothers, visit family or friends (see
above), or get a hair cut (lamest excuse
ever!).

So now it’s decided, you’re going;
we’re all going——with each other. But who
on campus do you ask? When is the
appropriate time? Well, if you hadn’t
noticed, your time is up. The dance is on
Saturday, the dresses have been bought
(well, at least ours have), now all you need
to do is step it up. Prime time would have
been this past weekend, did you ask
someone ? Do you remember asking them ?
Helpful hint from Breka: leave yourself a
voicemail, note on your mirror, or even
sharpie across the forehead; these are all
tried and true methods to remind yourself
of drunken nights past. But if you’re still
in doubt, you could always ask a friend.
Going with a non—romantic interest has a
number of beneﬁts. And boys, not every

So" now, it’s decided: you ’re going; we’re all

going—with each other.

But who on campus do

you ask? When is the appropriatetime? Well if
you hadn’t noticed, your time is up. The dance
is on Saturday, the dresses have been bought
(well, at least ours have), now all you need to

do is step it up.

girl thinks an invite to a date function
means anything more than...you invited
her to a date function. It’s really just that
simple. But that goes for you ladies too,
don’t take it too seriously. But let’s face
it, guys are idiots and you might just not
have a date. Going stag isn’t bad, you’re
hot, so are your friends, and you might just
pick up some potential dates in the
process. Of course, you could always ask
him yourself, but at least offer to split the
cost.

However, for those “friends” that
may end up as more than just friends (only
for the night, of course) Breka has three
words for you: boutonniere equals booty.
Start the night out right and maybe you’ll
end it right too.

“Do you like strawberries or

p blueberries?”

“Why do you ask?”

“Cause I wanna know how to make
your pancakes in the morning.”

Smooth. Real smooth. Speaking of
food, please don’t pass out in your dinner.
It’s not cool and just plain sloppy. FD is
all about pacing. Afternoon cocktail
parties are awesome as long as you know
your lirriits. We suggest picking a drinking
partner of equal size and gender. Maybe
you’re concerned about ﬁtting into your
dress, this does not mean skip dinner, it
means eat something, anything. A home
cooked meal, an affordable alternative to
Wilson-Walker house. But if you do
happen to go a little over your limit ladies,
remember this: body tape, body tape, body
tape. Paris Hilton-esque exposure is not
so cool on our ultra-conservative campus.
Boys on- the other hand, well, just ask
Breka first.

By now, you’ve hopefully made it
to the dance. Decorations are awesome,
music is fabulous—and your date is gone.
FD ditching has become an increasing
problem over the years, mysteriously
correlated to our intake of alcohol. First
off, remember what your date is wearing
or at least her hair color. We also suggest
exchanging cell phone numbers and
keeping them handy, having a central
location to ‘meet if you get separated, or
strapping yourselves together with either
rope or handcuffs (kinky but sometimes
appropriate). Speaking of kinky, mid-
formal nooky is deﬁnitely a no-no. No
matter how well you think you’ve ﬁxed
your hair, everyone can tell. Once you
leave the dance, it’s suggested you stay
home. And if that’s what you’re planning
on, have a change clothes or at least a
different pair of shoes. You may pull off
the “Sunday morning jogger” in gym
shorts and an oversized t—shirt, but the
stilettos will give you away every time.
But no worries, if you forget the shoes,
we’ll be set up in the quad with snacks
and “leftover beverages” to laugh with you
on your way home.

To sum up,

Splitting the cost of FD with a
friend: $50

Going the “extra mile” with the
boutonniere from J effersons:

$8

WaHo trip at 10:30 the next
morning (either with your girls or your
date):

$10

Doing FD the Breka way, the right
way: '

Priceless

Potato Mari tries to grasp
the concept of marriage

Bymashalnuie

Pdmlvhi

This week was my grandparent’s
50"‘ anniversary. Fifty years with one
person. It is truly mind-boggling when
you think that two people can be together
for that long.

They were together when John F.
Kennedy was assassinated. They were
together when we landed on the moon and
when the Berlin Wall fell. They were
together when Nixon resigned and when
Mike Tyson bit a man’s ear off.

In a time when we only hear about
the marriages that go bad, it’s nice to hear
about the ones that survive.

For ﬁfty years my grandma has read
romance novels and cooked amazing
Thanksgiving meals, and for fifty years,
my grandpa has worked the farm and
plumbing business and come home to his
trusty recliner and Western movies.

For fifty years they have fished,
camped and watched high school football
games. Like all marriages, there were
times of trouble, yet they were able to‘
overcome them.

I have trouble spending fifty
seconds with a girl without getting bored
out of my mind, yet day after day for over
18,000 days, they have been together.

They have been married for ﬁve
times longer than my parents were, who
only made it ten years before they decided
to hire lawyers.

This enormous event got me to

think about marriage and how it counters
all human emotions and desires.

The idea that someone would want
to sacriﬁce nearly all of their individual
freedom in order to get a curfew and never
be able to look at another girl again (or at
least until the inevitable divorce) is
ridiculous.

The human body and mind was not
designed to be with one girl. Some people
say that a purely monogamous relationship
that lasts the rest of your life is much more
satisfying than the dating scene. While I
obviously don’t know about marriage, or
a serious relationship over a few months
(and by a few, I mean two), I can’t imagine
that it is that fulﬁlling.

Think about all of the obligations
that come with a serious relationship.
Calling on your way home from the strip
club. . .er. . .. I mean, working late. The in-
laws birthday parties that always happen
to fall on the worst possible days. N o more
getting wasted. Every purchase you ever
make is questioned, especially the $340

spent on a 900 number.

When something breaks, you
actually have to fix it right, rather than
just using duck tape to ﬁx the problem.
The ﬁght for the remote control is a brutal
battle, and you will always inevitably
lose.

Any time that you ﬁght, she will
always bring up something you did
wrong in the past, and you will sleep on
the couch. Any sense of your manhood
is gone, and your single friends begin to
fade into the distance and new married
ones begin to be your friends.

No longer are there beer bongs and
beirut, but rather board games and a glass
or two of wine. Ten o’clock at night is
late, and so too is ten in the morning.

Yet, for some reason, ' my
grandparents decided to get married. And
for some reason they have stayed together
for ﬁfty years and never once complained
about it. They actually like it.

I guess in their old age they have
become senile.

The idea that someone would want to sacriﬁce
nearly all of their individual freedom in order to
get a curfew and never be able to look at an-

divorce) is ridiculous.

V other girl again (or at least until the inevitable

o

 

 

<

$331,?’ 755
£051
Va '0'’.-
V1 6:2 9

(I.

2.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

  THE RING=TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MARC_H 21,2005

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME Qlldlll, NUMBERS‘

WHAT’S INSIDE

 

Glamour at the gala _

The motown music blared, the
sarcophaguses shone, students were
breakin’ it down with the Pharaohs at
this year’s Fancy Dress Ball. Check
out party pics on page 4.

Relax, the lax team’s doin’ fine
Six straight wins in a row may
suggest the women’s lacrosse team is
doing much better than just ﬁne.
Catch up with these victorious
women on page 3.

Staged for success

After weeks of preparation, the
theater department puts out a
provocative and witty selection of
one act plays. See page 5 for a sneak
peek.

~ HOT TICKET

 

Hello, Clarice...

Spine-tingling thriller “Silence of the
Lambs” will run in the Cornrnns
theater Wed., March 23, at 7:00 p.m.
Guaranteed to keep you on the edge
of your seat.

Sundaes at the gallery

From the tenured art majors to the
newly—discovered freshmen, our art
students have pulled their favorite
masterpieces! Come browse their
work in Dupont’s art gallery on Wed.,
March 23, from 3:15-4:45 p.m. And
no, your sweet tooth won’t be
neglected -- ice cream sundaes will
be served.

Java and jazz

Unwind to the music of James Leva,
‘80, and Danny Knicely at Commons.
Grounds: an Acoustic Coffeehouse in
the Commons living room on Fri.
March 25 from 8-11 p.m.

Last chance!

Come one, come all, it’s your last
chance to hear the University Jazz
Ensemble before they’re on the road
for their tour! Catch them at the
Lenfest Center on Tues. March 22 at
8 p.m.

Ho|lywood’s latest heist

An all-star cast, a riveting plot,
stunning scenery -- what more can
you ask of a good action movie? The
entire cast of “Oceans 11” returns
along with Catherine Zeta-Jones in
“Oceans 12,” which will be running
in the Commons theater at 9:30 pm.
on Tues. March 22, Thurs. March 24,
and Fri. March 25.

 

QUICK POLL

Q: Will student
administration of honor
system remain safe

in the coming years?

 

54 students polled, 28 male, 28 female Poll has 90%
confidence in a +/A 5% margin oi error

Athletic facilities revamped 

By Chris Lauderman
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

A new ﬁeld house, aquatic center
and a renovation for Wilson Field headline
the athletic report of the strategic plan.

The athletics task force, composed '

of seven subcommittees, has ambitious
goals for the university.

“It is critical to understand the ﬁrlly
vested interest in the educational goals of
W&L,” said Mike Walsh, Executive
Athletic Director and Chair of Physical
Education and Athletics.

The proposed ﬁeld house would
house an indoor track and provide other
indoor recreational opportunities. This
space would hold Mock Convention,
Fancy Dress Ball and commencement in
the event of rain, rather than Cameron Hall
at VMI.

Walsh called the ﬁeld house “much
needed.” .

“We have had to shut down our
enterprise for three days [for Fancy
Dress],” Walsh said.

Provost Tom Williams echoed
Walsh.

“We would have loved to have had
it ﬁve years ago,” Williams said.

The new facility could end up being
located across from the baseball ﬁeld
where the Physical Plant currently has a
storage facility. That storage facility could
be relocated behind The Liberty Hall ruins,
the current site of a dump that has also
served as the staging area for construction
companies.

W&L, VMI and the community are
all in need of an aquatic center. Talks are
underway with VMI to see if a joint
venture is the best way to proceed.

The current pool at W&L is aging
quickly. This year has already seen an
electrical ﬁre as a result of old wiring.
Proposed sites include under the Cadaver
Footbridge or a mutual location between
W&L and VMI.

The future of Wilson Field rests in
the hands of the master planner. Two

‘options face the current facility. First,

since the track and ﬁeld are new, the

The bleachers at Wilson Field are showing their age. A new stadium, which mayor may not be located in the
same location as the current one will be built out of brick reflecting a style more characteristic of a W&L facility.

bleachers could be taken out and replaced
with a brick stadium with wrought iron
gates, something a little more
characteristic of the university.

Second, the master planner may

[decide that the current Wilson Field would

be the perfect location to build new dorms
to replace Graham Lees and BDG. Wilson
ﬁeld would then be moved to a new
location in the back of campus.

The Doremus Gynmasium, built in
1915, and the Warner Center both are in
need of renovation. Expect to see a new
training room, air conditioning in all the
locker rooms and new bleachers in the
Warner Center.

Other proposed ideas include
changing the physical education general

education requirement. In addition to
basic skills classes such as basketball and
tennis, students would get to choose to
take lifestyle improvement and healthy
living classes.

As of next year, club sports and
intramurals are being shifted to the Dean
of Students office. It will be under the
Outing Club’s jurisdiction.

One task force subcommittee
investigated internal administration and
another looked over ﬁnance. __

Recruitment was anotherissue
addressed by the strategic plan.

“We want to guard against a
subculture of athletes,” Walsh said.

Walsh thinks that W&L has done a
good job to this point. Over 100 athletes

had a GPA of 3.5 or higher in the fall term.

Walsh said a goal was to have every
team play for league championships. He
also wants to make sure every sport team
has good facilities.

The ODAC, W&L’s conference, is
also viewed as a hurdle to overcome.

“We are not in a conference of like-
minded institutions,” Walsh said. “But we
are a victim of geography.”

Changing conferences would mean
increased travel time, which will raise
costs arid cause students to miss classes.

Two other goals include looking
into having the program endowed and
forming a tighter relationship with the
bookstore, which could‘ market more
sports merchandise.

Contact announces
upcoming speakers

By Sarah Murray
NEWS EDITOR

An FBI criminal proﬁler, a record-
setting speed climber and political activist
Ralph Nader will all visit campus before
the year ends. The three lectures will wrap
up the schedule of speakers sponsored by
the Contact Committee this year.

John Douglas, the only speaker
remaining before spring break, will speak
on “The Real Silence of the Lambs”
Thursday, March 24. Douglas, an FBI
criminal proﬁler, was the model for the
character of Jack Crawford in the movie
The Silence of the Lambs, which will be
screened in the Elrod Commons theater
the night before his lecture.

The Outing Club is also working
with Contact to bring Hans Florine, a
leading speed-climber, to campus April 19.
Florine has broken all manner of records
in climbing. The Outing Club hopes to

use this event to kick off the Spring Term

and to encourage students to take

advantage of outdoor activities available .

in Lexington, such as rock-climbing and
canoeing. -

The main event of Spring Term,
however, will be the lecture by “consumer
advocate,” Ralph Nader. A candidate in the
presidential campaigns of 2000 and 2004,
Nader will speak in Lee Chapel May 6.

According to Contact Publicity
Chair David Kronenfeld, the cost of
booking Nader is $15,000. But the
Contact Committee members decided that
the price was worth it.

“Not everyone on the committee
necessarily agrees with him, but he’s going
to be a good speaker nonetheless,”
Kronenfeld said.

Other luminaries brought to campus
in years past include author Kurt
Vonnegut, political humorist P.J.
O’Rourke, Watergate “plumber” G.
Gordon Liddy, and Supreme Court Justice
Sandra Day O’Connor.

    

TEACHERSCHOLASTIOCOM

Political Activist Ralph Nader.

 

GFIEATESTTALENTCOM

FBI criminal profiler John Douglas.

 

HANSFLOFIINE COM

Speed climber Hans Florine.

 

 - THE RING-TUM PHI

y‘-rant‘:'A'A‘A‘A'A'A'A'A'A'-‘A\l'n‘A'A"A'A'A'A'A'A'n'A-an-up-"4-A-A-A-n-Aumum-X-A-Am-xv.-rrna-Av;-.n-4'A~A'numm-ramwarm‘;'4-A'a'.n-rA'rAa'rA'a-‘wavy.
I l
i
l
1
l
l
l
l

. — ’G.iEYi;ll.!_i3.!\l ursn-W W _ __ _ _ g

‘-1,’: ',‘--n1-r+%:K‘l
, .. A

   

MR 2 22305

IIBWS

 

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

By Sonia Siu

STAFF WFI ITER

Last weekend, whi‘ ‘ some st ients
were at initiation and others were sleeping,
one fraternity on campus decided to‘ give
back to their community. Last weekend,
one sorority and a campus organization
furthered Kappa Sigma’s efforts by
continuing the rebuilding of Lexington’s
Skate Park. Theta and Young Life spent
the morning of Fancy Dress restoring the
rotten wood that Kappa Sigma brothers
had removed, and then repainting it.

According to Mary Harvey, work on

I this skatepark started ten years ago, when
fundraising and meetings with the city of
Lexington ﬁrst took place. Harvey IS one
of two coordinators working on the project
this year. She is a piano teacher in
Lexington and she has remained

_ committed to maintaining and building the
new pieces needed for this community
park.

Warren Meehan, the second
coordinator, is a Washington and Lee
alumnus from the class of 2000. He is

_ currently an Americorps volunteer with the
Rockbridge Area Habitat for Humanity,
and prior to this he served for two years in

" the Republic’ of Moldova as a Peace Corps

7' volunteer.

'1 “We are both really committed to

‘- working with teenagers and helping them

'4' express themselves through skating and

V giving them a safe option for fun with the

' skatepark here in Lexington,” says

" Mer in. “We also ﬁnd it -eally im* ortant

4' that local students and volunteers invest

; themselves in the community.”

‘-‘ Tom Borda, a junior Kappa Sigma

5 who coordinated his group, expressed that

’ “we genuinely enjoyed the service event,

7' and we were very glad to help out Warren

_ and Mary with the skatepark renovation.”

“'1 He said the event was a good bonding

‘ experience for his brothers.

cv

.,4

-oz

ca «v=2ers@wlu.edu
http://careers.w|u.edu

Class of 2008

Parents asking about your MAJOR?
Friends asking about your summer PLAN S??
Starting to worry that you should already know the
answers to those questions???

Be the most prepared class of all.
Attend the

Freshman Meeting

‘ Ttiésgi7ay;ivarehr22nd 

7.00. p.m., Con .. nons Theatre
Sponsored by

AREER
‘t&’As‘r»z1Nc;'1‘<.>_N AM") 1,152; {.§:«:tvrs:‘:rsrir*i*
J ERVICES

Sonia Siu I Staff Photographer

Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha Theta, Young Life and other students spent the Saturday morning of Fancy Dress renovating
the skate park in Lexington. Construction started 10 years ago and new pieces continue to be added to the park.

Reeves Center
plans “A Cel-
ebration of
Japanese 'Art”

News Ofﬁce
PRESS RELEASE

During tne montu of March the
departments of art, East Asian languages
and literature, and the Reeves Center at
will present “A Celebration of Japanese

“Japanese Garden Design,’f the
final lecture in the four part series will be
given by Marc Peter Keane, garden
designer and Cornell University visiting
scholar, on Monday, March 28 at 7:30
p.m. in the DuPont Hall Auditorium.

All aspects of the series are open to
the public and free of charge.

Keane, a gradu;,..e of Cornell
University’s department of landscape
architecture, has been living and working
in Kyoto Japan since 1985. His primary
design work consists of garden design for
residences, company grounds and temples
as well as larger scale design projects for
parks and historic districts.

An educator as well as a designer,
Keane is a lecturer in the department of
environmental design at the Kyoto
University of Arts and Design and a
research fellow at the Research Center for
Japanese Garden Art.

Keane’s published writings include
“Japanese Garden Design,” which
explains Japanese design elements
.situated it in the cultural background, and
a translation of the “Sakuteiki,” Japan’s
thousand year old treatise on gardening.

Keane is also the chairman of Kyoto
Ivritate Intemauonal, an iinemational iron-
proﬂt organization working to preserve
and revitalize Kyoto’s traditional
environments.

Complementing the lecture series,
an exhibition of Japanese prints loaned
from Sebastian Izzard Art, LLC, will be
on display in the Reeves Center on
campus from March 7 through March 31.

 

    
   

 

    

    
iwﬁﬁﬁﬁ

 



458-9595 ‘ .

   

' : 'eat.a'r.rnn?:. :2?!“  "

h  ;ea §5i:°'it5s”§g"

 gag; gigﬁﬁ-'-fgggz *w,§§=15r:: .,;gi=ms§: ;:I§,i‘3t3=%=3.fr.7?!’ 

 _j«’+i'£fi% _.ii*‘§'‘iin:;+.~’_'§~*‘ 3%:
_ u.§'.l,i§i'&i"ii’l"?"K3°. '.

  

'* : it-2 r:r1:':7r3:a”

 
 

“L t’l‘iﬂ?iE%i‘i‘Zi.*' 

 

 

‘V

«<

(2

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

  S00! 18

 

TH|S‘WEEK

TUESDAY, MARCH 22
-Baseball vs. Shenandoah 3:00
-Women’s LAX vs. Bridgewater 4:00

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23
-Baseball at Bridgewater 3:00
-Men’s Tennis at Mary Wash 3:00
-Women’s LAX vs. Williams 4:00

FRIDAY, MARCH 25
-Track Mary Wash Relays 3:00

SATURDAY, MARCH 25

IBaseball vs. Va Wesleyan 12:00
-Men’s LAX Lynchburg 1:30
-Women’s LAX vs. Va Wesleyan 2:00
IMen’s Tennis vs. Swathmore 11:00
-Track Mary Wash Relays 9:00

SPORTS BRIEFS

Ginder Earns All-America Honors
at NCAA Championships (3/19)
Washington and Lee sophomore
Michael Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./
Episcopal) earned Honorable Mention
All-America accolades in the 100-
yard freestyle on Saturday evening at
the 2005 NCAA Division III Men’s
Swimming Championships held at
Hope College.

W&L Golf Team In Fourth Place
After Day Two of Golden Isle
Invitational (3/19)

The Washington and Lee golf team
sits in fourth place out of 24 teams
after day two of the Golden Isle
Invitational in Jekyll Island, Ga. The
Generals shot a 294 and have a two-
day total of 596 (302-294). Freshman
Steven Spivey ﬁred a 72 and leads the
tournament by three strokes with a

total score of 141 (69-72).

W&L Outdoor Track In Action at
Roanoke Invitational (3/19)

The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld teams competed at the
Roanoke Invitational on Saturday
afternoon in Salem, Va. The Generals
set three school records and had six
top three ﬁnishes.

W&L Men’s Tennis Defeats
Eastern Mennonite, 7-0 (3/17)
The 10th-ranked Washington and Lee
men’s tennis improved to 10-4
overall, 6-0 in the ODAC with a 7-0
victory over Eastern Mennonite on

Thursday afternoon in Harrisonburg,
Va.

W&L Women’s Tennis Defeats
Bridgewater and Eastern
Mennonite, 9-0 (3/18)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team remained perfect
at 13-0 overall and 10-0 in the ODAC
with 9-0 victories over Bridgewater
and Eastern Mennonite on Friday
afternoon.

W&L Men’s Lacrosse Falls to
Mary Washington, 9-6 (3/19)

The University of Mary Washington
scored six consecutive goals over the
second and third periods en route to a
9-6 victory over ﬁfth-ranked
Washington and Lee in men’s lacrosse
action on Saturday afternoon in
Fredericksburg, Va.

Women’slax wins sixth straight

By Marshall Rule
MANAGING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team won a thriller against Mary
Washington Saturday afternoon.

Mary Washington jumped out to an
ear1y_lead after three quick goals in the
ﬁrst half. But thanks to six straight goals
by the Generals, W&L was able to
overcome the early deﬁcit.

Junior midﬁelder Kate Lester led
the team with four goals and sophomore
midfielder Maggie Megear added the
remaining three.

Going into the game, the 18”‘ ranked

Generals were slight underdogs to the 11"‘
ranked Eagles. But that didn’t seem»to
faze the Generals, who were able to hold
off a second half run of three straight
goals. By the time regulation had ended,
W&L was on top 7-6.

Freshman goalkeeper Sarah Tilbor
tallied 11 saves in the game. Avery
Lovejoy and Erin Rathbone each added
an assist.

The game was a welcome change
from the mud bath that the Generals played
on in Guilford Wednesday.

The game, which was called with
just under ten to go in the second half due
to poor weather conditions, was
dominated by the Generals. Avery

Lovej oy led the team and tied a career high
of ﬁve goals.

The Generals started off the game
with a quick three goal lead thanks to
consecutive goals by Lester.

In the course of the game six W&L
players scored a goal including Kelly
Evans ,who scored two. Christine Bender,
Mallory Lobisser, and Natalya Hoobchaak
also each added a goal.

The ﬁeld was a muddy mess and
players were glad to see the game called,
especially considering the Generals were
on top when it was called.

The Generals will be looking for
another win against Bridgewater at home
Tuesday afternoon.

  

 

STAFF PHOT RAPHEFI

 

The Generals lacrosse team won its fifth straight one goal victory Wednesday afternoon. Gavin Molinelli scored four goals
against Greensboro in the 11-10 victory. The Generals’ five game winning streak ended Saturday in a disappointing 9-6 loss
against Mary Washington. W&L hopes to get back on track when they host Lynchburg Saturday afternoon.

Generals Baseball sweeps double header

By Sports Release
SPORTS INFORMATION

The Washington and Lee baseball
team pounded out 36 hits and scored 27
runs in a double header sweep of ODAC-
foe Eastern Mennonite on Saturday
afternoon in Harrisonburg, Pa. The
Generals won the opener, 11-1, and took
the second game, 16-4.

In game one, the Generals (19-4, 7-
2) took a 2-0 lead in the top of the first
inning on a two-run single by senior
catcher Zach Bausch. The Royals (6-10,
0-4) got one run back in thelbottom of the
inning on an RBI ground out by junior
catcher Kenny Riley.

W&L increased its lead to 3-1 after
four innings before scoring ﬁve runs in
the ﬁfth and three more in the sixth inning
to take an 11-1 advantage.

  ‘

Junior first baseman Taylor
McConnell and sophomore right ﬁelder
Richard Garland hit back—to-back home
runs in the three-run sixth inning.

Bausch went 4-for-5 at the plate
with three RBI, while McConnell batted
3-for-5 with three runs. On the mound,
sophomore right hander Clayton Edwards
pitched his fourth complete game of the
season. He allowed one run on four hits
with two strikeouts to pick up the win.

For the Royals, junior center ﬁelder
Cole Thornton went 1-for-4 with a run,
while senior pitcher T.J. Frazier gave up
10 runs on 13 hits with two strikeouts in
5.1 innings to suffer the loss (2-3).

In game two, W&L surged out to a

13-0 lead after three innings en route to’

the 12-run win. The Generals plated ﬁve
in the first inning, six in the second and
two more in the third.

Senior left ﬁelder Chris Chaplin

smacked a two-run double in the first
inning, while McConnell hit a two-run
triple and sophomore second baseman
David Miller connected on a two-run
single in the second inning.

Eastern Mennonite scored three of
its four rims in the fifth inning with two
runs coming on a double by senior
designated hitter Chad Thornton.

Miller batted 4-for-5 with a double,
two runs and three RBI, while senior third
baseman Adam Bullock went 3-for-6 at
the plate with a double and two runs. On
the hill, sophomore left hander Johnson
Brownlow gave up three rims on eight hits
and struck out six over six innings to earn

‘the win (4-0).

Thornton ﬁnished 1-for-5 with a
double and two RBI, while junior Casey
Armstrong batted 2-for-3 with a run.
Junior Drew Cobb allowed 10 runs on nine
hits in 1.2 innings to take the loss (1-1).

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free (yes,
free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1,000-$2,000 in
earnings for your group. Call TODAY for a $450 bonus
when you schedule your non-sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact CampusFundraiser, (888)
1 923-3238.

1999 IIutIiII40uatIro

IIM radio, 12 on changer. good condition.
$11,500. Ball 261-5598.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa Rica. 110%
Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
endIesssummertours.com

LIFEGUAFIDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 Nova areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visitwebsite!
www.premier411.com

1 877 SEE POOL

 

W&L Track
team breaks
three records

Sports Release
SPORTS INFORMATION

The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld teams competed at the
Roanoke Invitational on Saturday
afternoon in Salem, Va. The Generals set
three school records and had six top three
fniishes.

In the women’s meet, W&L was led
by freshman Elizabeth Brandler who set
two school records. She won the triple
jump with a school-record jump of 34’ 4
3/4". Brandler also placed second in the
pole vault by clearing a school-record and
NCAA qualifying height of 11’2”. It was
also the top vault by any freshman in the
nation this season.

Sophomore Sara Behmerwohld
won the 400-meter hurdles in a school-
record time of 1:08.27, while ﬁnishing
third in the 100-meter hurdles (16.80).
Sophomore Huntley Rodes placed third in
both the triple jump (32’ 5 1/2”) and 400-
meter hurdles (1 : 12.78).

In the men’s meet, sophomore Ryan
Edge placed fourth in the high jump with
a jump of 5’8”. Freshman Alex Mahoney
finished ﬁfth in the 1500 meters (4: 19.46),
while classmate Tom Brower was sixth in
a time of 4:22.25.

In the 800 meters-, freshman Jack
Jeong placed sixth in a time of 2:06.82.

On Friday night, the Generals were
in action at the VCU Ram Invitational
where they competed against Division I,

9H and III competition.

In the men’s meet, senior Steve
Chambers placed first among Division III
competitors in the 5000 meters in a time
of 15:42.22. Senior Chris Walker was third
among Division HI athletes in the hammer
throw (98’0”).

  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knihing Specialty Shop
273 Rapliine Road
Raphiiie, VA 24472
540-348-5220 0 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek .
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworksltopclzdssinfoiniatlon.

 
 
     
   
    
      
  

Halfway between lzxinglon and Stauuton
On I81 /I-64 at exit 205. Raphlnr. 4rnile.r war! on
Route 606. Raphine RM /M/P!/W a working
farm that ojfers "U-PICK" opponunities for frrsh
fruit when in season

Tiles - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
m 

  

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHl

MONDAY,MARCH 21,2005

Kristine

  She still, llOLU€t/‘QT,

/ gentlemen. l l<.'.l0V./ j/("H :Ipr:-’t,‘, 35‘

Phattvs by Cumin Biacktord.
Stephen ="*ar§s~.es;, Jon Rogers
;-int! Eiiralreth Eckman

 
 

1. Students walk up the ;'c«’ carpet into the Warner Center for FD. 2. Students party “in the shadow of the spinx” in the
big gym. 3. Stmlents posedfor pictures all night with the re—creati0n ofthe Sphinx. 4. Egyptian cut—0uts covered both
gyms and the campus all week. 5. Students are shown jamming to the hip—hop tunes which were played all night in the
small gym. 6. Camels, such as these, lined the walls of the gym which was transformed into an‘Egyptian desert.

Students danced
the night away

Fancy Dress Ball
“In the Shadow

at the 98th

of the Sphinx”

 
  
  
  
    

rt’

*3

Q...

warships the sippy

cup and amaretto and diet coke

By Kristine Early
MILK-AND-CHEESE GIRL

Since arriving at W & L (minus my
stint with mono). I have been telling
myself that it was perfectly !‘.4,)!‘t?i}ll to gs;

' out drinking Monday, Wednesday, I*ri,tlay,

and Saturday. After all, I have never
missed a class, I have never missed a
workout at the gym, I l'.:..w xv.-v ;-§.ipp:;;T
a reading assigmnent. and I Ira-.-t; never‘
stopped participating and listening in
class. I have prided myself on It-sing a
functional alcoholic Ladies and

v j ll.”

 

funniest thing your very own Milk and
Cheese Girl has written all year. And the
most pathetic.

A trip to the hospital didn’t do
anything to jar my mentality. Alchol.edu
(really the most worthless program ever)
-_lidi1’t either. Neither did the educational
pamphlets, nor my parents constant
worrying. No. Three long talks with great
ads, an a‘-:‘::.u1‘<l situation and a look in
the mirror at my tear stained face is exactly
what it took.

I miss the old Milk and Cheese Girl
who liked to party but had just as much
Bur »<c,t,\e; (so muclr fun, llmt some people

 

assumed she was drunk). I miss that good
old Wisconsin girl that never minded a
night curled up in bed with a good movie
and a bag of Orville Redenbacher (Think
I’ll get a few free bags, Hugh?). I miss
that Midwestemer that looked at the world
with wonder and awe rather than
skepticism and cynicism. Cause that blue
eyed, 5, brunette was pretty damn
awesome, ifl do say so myself. That
girl...that girl could look in the mirror and
say: like the person I am, and I love the
person I becoming. (Or ala Saturday
Night Live: “I’m good enough, I’m smart
enough, and doggone it, people like me!
No, this doesn’t mean I am going
.to stop going out altogether. I still heart
amaretto and diet coke. I still worship the

sippy cup. And nothing is better than a ‘

good game ofbeirvi:.. But as much fun as

cirrhosis of the liver would be, I think the
era of Kristine, the functional alcoholic
has come to its conclusion. It has been an
interesting and yes, an often enjoyable
ride. But I know that if I stay on it, I
headed for a headﬁrst crash.

Let me clarify something: I am not
trying to preach. I am certainly in NO
position to. NO POSITION. Yes, I sure I
1 hit up the keg a few more times than I
should and make a spectacle of myself one
or two more times throughout my college
career (heck, probably spring term). And
you can laugh your head off at me. That
okay. I am young, and I want to have fun.
I just don ’t want to compromise that good
old farm girl anymore (okay, I live in a
city of 60,000).

Last night, I arrived at FD with a
BAC‘. of .00. l remember whom I talked

strives up being “functiona alcoholic”

to, what we said, what people were
wearing, and which songs were playing.
And you know what, that’s pretty damn
rewarding.

Besides, I’ve never needed to drink
to make a fool out of myself. I am a klutz
on my own accord. No help required there.
I can put my foot in my mouth all by my

. self. It is a skill. And, heck,I\was sober

and I still did he sprinkler.

So, if you see me out and aboutirr
the next few weeks, my sippy cup really
will be ﬁlled with just diet coke or just
water. And yes, I do dance like that when

. I’m sober.

1 really think my liver is going to
thank me for this. .

Oh, and no, in case you were
wondering, the deans did not fund this
article (on my honor).

 

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

“The purpose of life is to ﬁght maturity.”

— Dick Werthimer

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

To Cadet orFrat? That is the question

By Lauren Sapikowski
STAFF WRITER

My name is Lauren Sapikowski,
and I have an addiction... men in
uniform. It must be in my blood, after all
both of my grandfathers, one uncle were
service men and my older brother is in
the Army. Whatever the reason, I am a
sucker for a man in uniform, which can
cause a world of problems. We live right
next door to a mass of military men, but
not all of us actually connect with them.

Herein lies the problem, all of my
VMI friends think that there is some
divide between W&L and VMI so they
import women from, say, Hollins. These
imports are not exactly loved by
Washington and Lee girls, for obvious
reasons. '

I have to at this point tell all of
the W&L men that importing women to
go to forrnals and mixers is about as rude
as it gets, so thanks for the slap in the
face.

Anyway, at VMI this importing A

actually makes some sense. Let’s face it,
VMI cadets are isolated: they have
curfew, they mostly reside at City Steaks,
and very few actually bother to go to frat
parties because they don’t quite ﬁt in.

Since women tend to be creatures
of habit, we meet men at parties at the
fraternities, thus limiting our ability to
connect with VMI, not to mention that
the only other place to ﬁnd them since
the Palms strike is at the Mirage which is
closed off to those of us under 21. Since
VMI still has to get dates, importing rears
its ugly head to save our gallant VMI
men.

This is not to say that"the girls at
W&L don’t date cadets, believe me, they
are our best option (mostly because they
actually date). The real issue is that we
have to actually meet cadets to date them.
In my experience, you only have to meet
one and that one will get you into the web
of connections.

For those of you who are not sure
how to do that, there are two basic options
to meeting a cadet. First, you can have a
ﬁiend who has VMI connections help you
out. To be honest, though, this is more a

way to meet friends than to date anyone.
If you want a date, you have to cross the
line.

That’s right, ladies, actually go to
VMI; maybe for a play or to see the VMI
parade. I have to tell you that these cadets
tend to be wary of crossing into W&L
territory, because they are locked up in a
cage mostly consisting of men.

Some are afraid of seeming too
forward, some don’t realize when they are
being too forward. I am a big fan of the
woman being in control of a relationship,
but when you are interested in a cadet, you
have to be in control to start off with
because they don’t want to offend.

These are actual real-life
gentleman, and if you want to ﬁgure out
what they think of you, you have to be
direct. Having given that advice, please
don’t “pull a Lauren” and do something
rash, like I would do. For example, asking
a cadet if you are allowed to kiss him will

intimidate him. So, ﬁnd the ﬁne line
between the two, and have fun.

Now that you have actually read the
article, I’m certain you want to know why
you should look at the men in uniform for
a change. My ﬁrst advice is to just look at
the guys at Washington & Lee.

While there are deﬁnitely some
amazing guys here, they are outweighed
by the mass of boys who wear the same
clothes twice a week and would never ask
a woman on a date, because they would
rather hookup without the extra eﬂbrt.

I will be the ﬁrst to admit that these
types of men can be charming... I have
deﬁnitely been kissing one (don’t’ worry,
he ’s ROTC, my addiction remains intact).
In my case, I met a charming one, but just
a wolf in sheep’s clothing. In the end, if

they can hook up with you one night and _

with another girl the next, they will. Mine
certainly did, and that is where the problem
with W&L men is — there are so many that

I have to at this point tell all of the W&L men that importing women to
go to formats and mixers is about as rude as it gets, so thanks for the

slap in the face.

 

A Preview of the 2005 One Acts

By Kate Shellnutt

STAFF WRITER

Already claimed to be “too hot
to handle,” the 2005 One Acts will hit
the stage to prove if they’ve got the heat
starting this Friday, March 25, and
running through Wednesday, March 30,
all at 8 pm at the Lenfest Center. The
nights alternate groups of 3_completely
student—run performances, with Bill A
including “Bunnies,” “American
Tropical,” and “The Intervention,” and
Bill B “The Night No One Died,” “The
Bone Violin,” and “Porcelain and
Pink.”

Because students select which
plays are performed and exactly how they
are presented, the One Acts provide an
opportunity for creativity. ,

“The One Acts are entirely done
by students: light design, directing,acting
and tech. While students usually play a
prominent role, the One Acts make a
particular difference because we try to
hold it all up on our own. It’s an amazing
learning experience,” said'“Bunnies”
stage manager Lauren Sapikowski ’08.

The range of subject matter, genre,
and mood also sets the One Acts apart.

“This year ’s directors chose a wide
variety of plays,” said “The Night No One
Died” lighting designer Kristine Holda
’O6. “The One Acts as a whole are very
involved, whether it be in plot, emotional,
or design aspects. Each play has
something that it focuses heavily on.”

“Bunnies,” written by Michael
O’Brien and directed by Lanier Brooks

HOTEL RWANDA

language." 122 minutes.)

A VER Y LONG ENGA GEMEN T

(France, 2004), directed by Jean—Pierre Jeunet i
Set in France during World War I, this highly creative work from the makers of Ame/ie has a
deceptively simple kernel: A young man, disillusioned with the conflict, disappears into the mindless
savagery of trench warfare and military bureaucracy,
ﬁnd him. However, in the hands of director/screenwr
complex and quirky amble, complete with eccentric c
, incongruously in the carnage of war—time France. The Wa// Stneetjourrra/s reviewer wrote that this (In Eng
ght—hearted way that Ame/its did, but it will make you feel
deeply, about love and war. Rapturously beautiful, §bmn ~wmmm.mx
ﬁlm employs many of the techniques that were used so pleasingly in Amelie.”  F ’
(In French, with English subtitles. Rated “R” by the MPAA for violence and sexuality. 134 minutes.)

film “won't make you feel good in the ll

’06, tells the story of Playboy mogul Hugh
Hefner to start off the first bill.

“It’s a comedy piece looking at a
possible way that Hugh Hefner started
on his road to fame. It’s set in the 50’s
and its very progressive, and it looks at
all of Hugh’s eccentricities,” said
Sapikowski.

“American Tropical,” written by
Richard Ford and directed by Lisa Baratta
‘O6, follows the life of a female murderer

“It’s really about one woman and
her struggle after committing a murder.
The other two characters support her, and
she supports them. It is a very interesting
situation on the stage,” said Baratta. “It’s
a somber piece with not a lot going on
other than the dialogue. The audience is
the listener to whom the character is
crying out for help.” V

“The Intervention,” written by
Anne Washbiirn and directed by Paige
Smith ’06, follows a group preparing to
hold an intervention for a friend.

“Paige Smith as director has
brought out the humor found in these six
kooky characters as they attempt a very
serious situation,” said stage manager
Michael Wagoner ‘07

“The Night No One Died,” written
by Shawn Overton and directed by Ligia
Abreu ’06, provides a not-your-average
murder mystery to begin the second bill.

“Basically, six people are thrown
together in a situation that should
obviously lead to a murder mystery: tl1ere’s
a mysterious hostess, a sexy widow, a
nerdy professor, a crooked businessman,
a French maid, and a detective, but instead

Washin ton & Lee Film Socie

Spring 2005

, April 22 & 23
(Canada/United Kingdom, 2004), directed by Terry George
An intemationallyacclaimed drama set during the savage genocide in Rwanda in 1994.

Academy Award nominee Don Cheadle stars as Paul Rusesabagina, the Hutu owner of a hotel in .
Kigali, a man who is slow to recognize evil, but who rises to the occasion when very few others will.
This is not an overtly graphic ﬁlm (note its rating) -- it does not focus on depictions of acts of
violence - but it is emotionally intense. A reviewer in the New i’ork1”Imes wrote that this is “a
political thriller based on fact that hammers every button on the emotional console. At the very least,
this wrenching ﬁlm performs the valuable service of lending a human face to an upheaval so savage
it seemed beyond the realm of imagination when news of it ﬁltered into the West.”

(In English. Rated “PG-13” by the MPAA “

April 29 & 30

iter Jeunet, this simple story becomes a
haracters and magical imagery, set somewhat

ends up as comedy when no murder is
actually committed,” said Abreu.

“The Bone Violin,” written by
Doug Wright and directed by Sarah Orvin
’O5, looks back at the life of a child prodigy,
taking on a different tone than the
preceding play.

“[It] is a very dark, intricate drama
exploring the artist’s struggle to ﬂourish in
a society riddled with destructive forces,”
explains Orvin. “The play centers around
the life of a child prodigy whose musical
ability could only be explained as a divine
giﬂ, and we know what happens when the
gods come among men....”

“Porcelain and Pink,” written by
F. Scott Fitzgerald and directed by Mary
Guy ’05, closes out Bill B with a 1920s
drama which juxtaposes the attitudes and
actions of two sisters.

Each bill seems balanced in tone
and length, providing both comedy and
drama. With six nights of shows, those
involved encourage students, staff, and
community to attend——the plays are free
and require no tickets.

‘ “They really are an amazing work of
art. I’ve gone to see them the past two years
and have been really impressed; now that
I’ve gotten a look at them from the inside,
there is so much hard work that goes into
making them as professional as possible,”
said Kristine Holda ’06.

Not only do the plays involve dozens
of W & L students in their preparation and
execution, this year ’s performances have
been dedicated to Michael Gorman,
former director of the Lenfest Center.

KINSE Y .

W&L Bookstore Presents. ..
Student Book of the Week

Auoomyteatunoianenooksooreundtheninu-tumvnl

Tislswoolrz

 

Telemarketers — they wake you up Saturdays, waste your time,
and interrupt meals and precious couch time. They are the only
group more despised than lawyers, and for good reason. This
crafty book provides 50 foolproof ways to strike back against
these annoying antagonists, 50 hilariously ingenious methods
that are guaranteed to drive telemarketers nuts!

with everything from the “Moron Maneuver" to the “Yada-Yada
Yammer” to the “Receptionist Ruse,” this book will have you
celebrating when you see “UNAVAILABLE” on your caller~ID.

“Easily, the funniest book of the year.
A hell ofa good time.”
~ Hal Mcbougali

Low Price: $7.95

are just interesting in how and where they
can get their next hookup, that dating falls
to the wayside.

I think these men assume dating will
automatically lead to a relationship, which
is the glory of the cadet. He realizes that
dating is a way to get to know each other
and ﬁgure out if you want a relationship.
Most W&L men seem to feel that dating
means you are getting married.

This small distinction is why it
actually matters that we live next door to
a school that mass produces gentleman,
because no matter how charming or
wonderful the W&L boy may seem,
several of them are adverse to dating and
actually focusing on one person for any
amount of time.

The cadets may seem slightly
awkward, or perhaps they seem too
different, but I will be the ﬁrst to promise
you that these men are generally
gentleman, and actually do date people.

If you found a W&L boy that
actually treats you right, please stay with
them, you are beyond lucky.

As for me, and the other girls that
discovered the wolf in the frat boy,~I will
remain with the officers, because I am
addicted, and because there is nothing
more amazing than a gentleman.

(USA, 2004), directed by sin Condon

Alfred Kinsey was the Indiana University professor whose research in post—World War II America
revealed a lot of the facts about sexuality that we now take as common knowledge. But, as critic
Roger Ebert wrote, this movie “makes one thing clear: Kinsey was an impossible man. He studied
human behavior but knew almost nothing about human nature, and was often not aware that he was
hurting feelings, offending people, making enemies or behaving strangely.” This “bio-pic” is not
tltillating, but what another critic calls “broadly sympathetic while maintaining a clinician's
conscientious detachment.” It's also warm, humorous, and deeply revealing, and features
spectacular performances by Liam Neeson and Laura Linney. , .
(In English. Rated “R” by the MPAA for “pervasive sexual content, including some graphic images
and descriptions.” 118 minutes.)

on appeal for violence, disturbing images and brief strong  L A QUA    U

(USA, 2004), directed by Wes Anderson

The creator of Rushmore and 77249 Royal Tenenbau/m returns with another fascinating and borderline
comedy, an absurdist vision of something that begins as a satire of Jacques Cousteau (and Moby
Didr?). Bill Munay (a Wes Anderson favorite) plays Steve Zissou, an undersea explorer and
documentarian who is on a quest to exact revenge on a leopard shark that killed a friend. The cast
also includes Cate Blanchette, Willem Dafoe, Owen Wilson, Anjelica Huston, and Jeff Goidblum.

and his young ﬁancé (Audrey Tautou) mes to According to the San Francisco Chronide, ‘At the very least, to see a movie as textured as The Life
Aquatic is to realize the thinness of the usual fare. The ﬁlm is often quite funny, but there are no bits
and no punch lines. Laughing at any point makes about equal sense.“

lish. Rated “R” by the MPAA for “language, some drug use, violence and partial nudity.”

118 minutes.)

May 13 & 14

May 20 & 21

 

  

 
 

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

umnmns

 

STAFF EDITORIAL

Kudos Voting
Board for
election forum

We would like to applaud
the Voting Board for hosting a
candidate forum for SJC and EC
elections. Student outcry for a forum
of this nature has been goirig on for
years.

However, the Phi has some
suggestions for future races.

Candidates were not given a
topic to speak about during the
forum. They each got up and made a
speech, often not hitting any
substantial points. If they would '
have had an assigned topic, the
candidates would have been easier to
compare.

Advertise the forum in
places other than Campus Notices.
Student turnout was very low —
eleven students to be exact. This is
not entirely the voting board’s fault,
but realistically, not too many
students read Campus Notices.

Oﬁ'er students food.
Seriously. What attracts college
students to any school-sponsored
event? Food. Offer students
chocolates or popcorn. We think the
crowd would more than double.

Finally, make the forum a
question and answer session with the
students. If the students could
actually pick the candidates’ brains
and get them off of their message
box, attendance would surely pick
up.

While this forum was not
wildly successful, such meetings need
to continue. It’s nice to see a campus
organization listen to students’ ideas.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Coley Anderson has
ﬁnishedsuckinguptohisprofstogive
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0 Mark McGwire

Tries to evade steroid questions at
Congressional hearings, fails to deny
steroid use unlike Sammy Sosa (who
no one believes) and Rafael Palmiero
(who a lot of people believe). 1998
home run chase is now a shattered
legend.

0 Elections

Kudos to the VRB and the EC for
ﬁnally providing a forum for
candidates to speak to their potential
constituents. Makes the whole
“campaign for everything in one
wee ” thing more digestible.

0 ‘Spring Break
Can’t get here early enough.

0 DeLorean

Dies at age 80, designed what will
clearly be remembered as the coolest-
looking form of transportation through
all of time and space.

0 Robot Ninja Zombies
Self-explanatory.

0 Recess

How about this- F hour is oﬂicially
designated as “recess,” and we build
an old-school playground with one of
those metal domes and a slide and
swings? That would rock.

0 Cyrus Mccormick Statue

How about this- we put up a huge sign

next to it that says “This is not Robert
 I  is over there,”

and the we’ll have a iBI’g"anow~\---- .

pointing to Lee Chapel so that we can
stop explaining it ‘over and over again.

0 End-of-term paper rush —

I wonder if my professors will accept
papers done in crayon.

0 My Spring Term classes
Japan in World War H and a politics
course about the Apocalypse. It
DOES NOT GET BETTER.

Election apathy pervades
University student body

By Emily Edwards
Am I use Eorron

It’s that time again: Student
Elections. Fancy Dress has come and
gone, and now we are left with those
miserable ﬁnal two weeks of the hell
known as Winter Term. It concerns me,
though, that no one really lmows what each
branch of our campus government does
for us. SAC, SJC, SFHB, EC, they all
sound more like FDR’s alphabet soup
legislation than a way to make our campus
“Run Like_Butter.” But of course, The
Princeton Review wrongly categorizes our
social scene, so it must be wrong about
our administration and faculty. Funny ho
that happens. ~

For the next couple of weeks, you
will be voting for fellow students who will
be your voice on campus and to the Board
and Administration. Do you understand
what a task that is? As of today, the
position of EC President has only one
candidate. No offense to our candidate,
Charlie Yates, but how would you have
felt if our nation’s 2004 Presidential
election had had only George W. Bush
running or only John Kerry running? It
doesn't sound so wonderful does it? Is
no one willing to take on responsibility
on our campus?

People always want to complain
about life in Lex. We can’t drink in the
fraternity houses, the food is terrible,
Burish didn’t really save Spring Term, and
on and on. The problem is, when it comes

down to dealing with these problems, no
one wants to stand up and ﬁght for what
he or she believes in.

We have become a complacent and
indifferent campus. Only one person
wants to run for EC President? Only one
person wants a chance to leave his mark
in the history books of our magniﬁcent
university?

I have a hard time believing that.
For a place with a “Homogenous Student
Population,” we have such a myriad of
different personalities on this campus.

It’s scary, the fact that diversity
exists here. It makes you WASPs cringe,
doesn’t it?

Washington and Lee is changing. I
don’t always agree with everything the
Administration is promoting in their
Strategic Plan, but such is life.

Twenty years ago, many men were
unnerved with the prospect of women
polluting their bastion of manliness. Even
those vehemently opposed to the idea

agree that it was the best thing that’

happened to our school.

So I oﬂer to you, my peers, a choice.
You can either complain about the state
of our school and accomplish nothing, or
you can stand up for what you believe in.

I’ve sat in too many classes in which
professors have had to call 011' class on
account of heated debates. It’s not that
we lack for opinions. We’ve lived our
whole lives with someone doing the dirty
work for us. It’s not fair to the students
who have come and gone before us to have
only the minimal amount of candidates on
this year’s ballots.

The problem is, when it comes down to dealing
with these problems, no one wants to stand up
and ﬁght for what he or she believes in. We
have become a complacentand indgﬁerent cam-
pus. Only one person wants to run for EC Presi-

dent?

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.  

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

COPY EDITORS

msﬂkrg-urmPhIispwHshedMoridaysdudngiiieurIdergmduaieschodyear
at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
nnﬂirig-wmPMisamenbuomuPibIicaﬂuwBoard,bmisomemiseindependent
Tbei-‘ling-tum Phiweicomes allresponsibiesubmissionsandietters.
Aiisubmissionsmusibse-mailed to phlewiueduorlnthe Universityceniermaiiboxbysnm.
Fridaytoappearlnthsioiiowing week'sediiion.
nnﬂhig-hmnureeewesuiengmtoednsiibmissbnsiorcontemandlengih.
LottersandcoiunnsdonotnecessariiyreiiecttiieopinionoiTheﬂing-tumPhIEditorialBoard.
Advertisingdoesnotreﬂecttheopiniorisoiiireﬂlng-armPhIoritsstaﬂ.
Thisnewspapsrohurvescurremcoundeiiniiiorisoiiibeiandmcenity.

The Hing-tum Phl
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Sdascription rate 840

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN Ll
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
VANESSA ARNESS

Coming to W&L for the M.R.S.

By Becky LeMoine
THE LOVING HOUSEWIFE

I have found the answer to one
of life’s most unanswerable ontological
questions: Wat is the purpose of life?
Well, if you are a female at W&L, the
answer is plain and simple. The
purpose of life is to get your MRS, of
course.

Many of us entered W&L
with a firm mission: to obtain a degree
and go on to secure a solid job. How
silly of us! We should have realized
from the start that we weren’t meant to
be anything but housewives. The
ultimate mission in life for the typical
W&L female is to spend daddy’s
money on this fine institute, marry a
rich guy, and pop out a few babies.

_ After all, work is hard. So,
why work a real job, when you could
just leave the money-making to the
man? It is his job to support you,
traditionally speaking. Before the
women’s movement, you were never

expected to do anything more than raise -

children, and here at W&L we must
honor that tradition.

Yet, we must not undermine
the importance of a degree. In order to
pose as the perfect trophy wives, we
must be able to indicate that we come
from solid backgrounds, where family
values triumphed and money ﬂowed
freely enough to send us to such a
prestigious institution. The best
indication of our willingness to uphold
the esteemed nature of our family’s
reputation is a degree. Too bad W&L
does not offer a degree in home
economics, because that would be
much more practical than a degree in
business or biology.

For those of us with the rather

ambitious, and, may I dare say, unladylike,
plan to pursue higher levels of knowledge
at either graduate, medical, or law school,
why do we even bother? Perhaps post-
graduate education is merely a back-up
plan, or an excuse for not receiving a
marriage proposal during undergraduate
studies.

If we were to be so unlucky as
to not find a husband at W&L, rather than
fall to pieces or be doomed by the idea of
actually having to support ourselves in the
real world, we simply hold our heads up
high, knowing that even more impressive
men await us. That is why we say we are
going to graduate school. That is why we
work so hard and make good grades.
Women are resourceful; W&L ladies are

’ ingenious.

If you’ve ever heard that females

' at W&L generally have higher grade point

averages than males, don’t be fooled. As I
said, we are ingenious. We value useful
skills.

So, why should we care about the
state of politics in Africa when things like
sewing, cooking, and raising babies are so
much more pertinent in our lives? We are
only using our intellectual ability in hopes
of ﬁnding even more successful husbands.
Otherwise, college would be a complete
waste of time.

For all of the W&L men that
worry, however brieﬂy, that women are
making them look bad or taking their jobs,
I offer this statement: rest assured that you
are superior. Our intellectual schemes are
only the work of women hoping to ﬁnd
men to support them ﬁnancially and pat
them on the back when they raise proper
children. There is no need to worry; we
will never aspire to anything above our
given place in society. All we ask is that
you uphold your end of the contract and
make your proposals sooner rather than
later, please. (End satire).

Morally hungover the
consequences of FD

By Mary childs
rrs NOT YOU, I‘l”S ME

Some people say that a physical
hangover is bad. And under most
circumstances, I’d agree. No body likes
waking up to find that you may have
broken your face last night, and lost
both of your eyes and a signiﬁcant
number of brain cells. And your purse.
And shoes. But sometimes, there’s a
step further from a rough night that
causes a hangover not as easily shaken.
And this is what we refer to as a “moral
hangover.” It’s probably happened to
you, too. That’s when you made a total
fool of yourself last night, and lord
knows who saw it. Coulda been
anybody - so you’re walking around
campus wondering who is your friend
and who is your enemy from the night
before.

The other week my friend from
high school came up to visit me and
we had a wonderful time. We went to
all the staple restaurants of the Lex-
Vegas lifestyle, I gave her a tour of the
countryside homes for her future
reference, and I introduced her to some
lovely people that I’ve met here. And
it was great fun (I’m sure a welcome
change from Davidson).

Somehow Saturday night didn’t
quite live up to Friday. I don’t know
how to explain this but somehow we
got in a little spat which turned into a
little brawl. Kind of embarrassing.
Aﬁer ﬁnally resolving the issue, she
decided that she needed to go back to
Davidson because her roommate had
called her or something, and she didn’t
want to stress me out. This is at three
in the morning. So we had about seven
cell phones constantly calling her, a
sober and devoted ﬁiend (and pledge)
trailing her trying to get her to pull over
so he could drive her wherever she
wanted, and I think I called pretty much
everyone that has ever spoken to her. I
also called her roommate, whom I’ve
never met, and skipped the whole “hi,
I’m Mary, I’m friends with...” andwent
straight to the “Speyser. Have you
talked to...” which, in retrospect, is
kind of awkward. I‘

During this whole stressful
situation, I happened to make the
acquaintance of one particular senior
by sheer luck and accident. I was on

three phones and he was knocking on the
door - apparently too much for my liking.
So I answered and was incredibly rude.
Now under any other circumstances I’m
sure I would have been ﬁ'iendly and warm,
but at that particular juncture, I forgot all
social pleasantries. Which makes for a
pretty poor ﬁrst impression.

The next morning I woke up. Wow.
It was one of those mornings where you
sit there and replay it all and just wonder
how you could have done it right. I thought
of so many better ways to handle any of
the above situations. But it went down like
it did, and that’s the downside of life; time
doesn’t wait for you to click edit - undo.

When I was younger, my mom made
my sister and me memorize this quote
about attitude: “The longer I live, the more
I realize the impact of attitude on life.

Attitude to me is more important that fact, A

more important than ............. ..” My mom
thought it was very important that we
realize that our attitudes dictate a lot of
our lives, and I agree that that’s an
important lesson. But I think I’ve also
come to-disagree. Sometimes it doesn’t
matter what your attitude is. Sometimes it
just matters what you actually do. I can

think anything I want to, I can sit here and

have a positive outlook but if that isn’t
reﬂected in my actions, if that isn’t evident
to everyone else, then my attitude is
completely irrelevant. And that’s what you
feel in the morning, not your attitude but
your actions. And that’s what everyone
else will remember (or, hopefully, not).
And that’s what your moral hangover is
about every time, it’s about the things you
did that you can’t undo, and the
repercussions of your actions. And maybe
right then it’s about the people’s attitudes,
maybe then it’s their outlook that matters.
But after a while it just boils down to what
you’ve done and how you’ve conducted
yourself.

Now I don’t claim to have the cure
for this “moral hangover.” I’m pretty sure,
though, that it’s not the hair of the dog.
Maybe it’s something like community
service, to right the karma. But most
importantly I think it’s just acknowledging
where it went wrong and adding that to
the log of mistakes made and lessons
learned, and taking that out with you next
time. Because the ﬁrst step to recovery is
recognizing that you have a problem. And
maybe after a while the entries logged will
plateau - and maybe that’s growing up.

‘.3

 

MONDAY,MARCH 14, 2005

“It feels magical 172 my pants.

)}

QUOTE OF THE WEEK- Overheard this weekend.

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

Strategic planning provides Baseball 3”” “Wt
positives and negatives

Ea’t't0/"s Erin and C77 ris give you t/zeir take on t/ze /2/an

By Erin Julius and Chris Lauderman
Editorsilchiet

The Strategic Plan was released to
the public over February Break. The
preliminary plan is just that - preliminary.
We have decided to give our opinion on
the good and the bad of the strategic
planning process.

Learning Communities— In a
community this small, interaction does not
need to be forced. Let friendships
naturally evolve. People meet friends
from all disciplines through Greek
organizations and campus activities. You
cannot be isolated in a school of 1700
students. Designing special living
arrangements is unnecessary. If the new
dorms are going to be suite style,
upperclass students should be able to pick
their roommates to avoid problems.

Washington, DC. campus‘ This
is an excellent way to increase name
recognition and take advantage of all that
the nation’s capital has to offer. The only
problem is sacrificing the close-knit
community that we have come to love in
Lexington.”

Satellite uplinkf Again, name
recognition would increase which is
important. Because it would allow for more
professors to jet publicity, Ft woul .7 probably
help to attract well-qualiﬁed faculty.

Athletic renovations and building—
These renovations are deﬁnitely necessary.
The bleachers are rusting, the pool caught
on ﬁre, an indoor graduation at VMI, need
we say more?

Everyone living on-campus—What
would that do to the local economy? We

_would all eat on campus, no one would

be renting houses from local landlords.
This would further isolate students from
the community. Plus, a big selling point
for the university in the past has been the
1.;1ique upperclassman Living options of
living in a house or an apartment above a
store.

The Washington and Lee University
Center for New Thought - Giving W&L
its own think tank for student thought is
an interesting concept and sounds
wonderful. But we have to wonder when
students will actually have time to
participate in this. Professors challenge
us every day in our classes to think
critically. If our work load remains this
strenuous, it is hard to imagine students
having the time.

“...modify the trident to make it less
ominous and reminiscent of a swastika in
appearance.” - This is just a bad idea. It is
a W and an L, not a swastika.

Changing the Conversation around
Robert E. Lee - Lee was an outstanding
college president and hizlped mold W&L

to what it is today. We .nust never forget
that as a university. It is a step in the right

direction to “market” Lee in a positive
light.

The tn"-ad concept - Tri—a—what? For
such an important concept in the strategic
plan, the administration has not done a
good job of explaining it to students. As
we understand it, it is where we link
programs between the College, the
Williams School, and the Law School. It
sounds like a good concept.
Administrators, please explain this in more
detail. .

The Campr; A Ivities P ogram -
“Our reputation as a f‘party school,” with
Greek life predominant, is not in our best
interest, nor is it in the best interest of our
graduates.” — Students know when they
attend Washington and Lee that they are
going to a highly Greek school. We don’t
see frats as a black mark on our resumes.
Joining a Greek Organization teaches you
many valuable life skills such as time
management, social skills, and other

things that a student might not learn in a -

regular academic setting.

We want to emphasize that we do
not think the strategic plan is bad or
harmful to the school. Planning is
essential to surviving as a university. We
must be prepared for the future, but we
cannot shrug off our past at the same time.
Traditions make this school great and we
always have to remerr er the wise words
of the Potato Man Nh he askea, “What
would Bobby Lee do?”

 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
    

  plagued by

By Caley Anderson
MODERATFS MUSINGS

Ac‘.ord' ig to legend, when the
t ne can fo 'hoe’ess Joe Ja ‘(son to
own up, he faced it with what honor
he had leﬁ to him- when the little kid

begged of him “Say it ain’t so, Joe,”A

he said “I’m afraid it is, son.”

Ask Mark McGwire, baseball’s
retired erstwhile slugger hero, and he’ll
instead change the topic, for he’s not
interested in “talking about the past.”

Or ask Bud Selig, whose term
as commissioner, racked with both
significant accomplishments and
disastrous failures, and he’ll tell you
that bas"-bal7's steroid problem is
completely 100% solved, or will be by
the end of this season.

It would take a remarkable
amount of naivete indeed to believe
that McGwire never used steroids that
violated MLB’s rules. And it would
take even more to believe that baseball
is clean of steroids.

V My favorite non-martial sport is
hitting yet another dip in its eternal
roller coaster ride. It seemed like not
too long ago that McGwire and Sammy
Sosa were smacking dingers out oﬁhe
park and restoring people’s faith in the

game; now we find that they were _

probably juiced up beyond all belief
while doing so.

Mind you,_ Sosa had the
intestinal fortitude to deny that he used
steroids while sitting before a
Fangre ior 1 Committee last
Thursday. I don’t believe him, but I’m
willing to give him the beneﬁt of the
doubt until someone proves it. And
despite McGwire’s assertions, players
before the committee were not damned

rather successfully (and passionately)
defended himself from steroid charges,
as did Curt Schilling.

But McGwire just sat there and
evaded. Absolutely no denials, where
even Sosa, who bulked up suspiciously
during his home run streak, was
denying in bad English.

Regardless of what you think of
Jose Canseco, and believe me, I think
he’s a greedy attention-grabber, there

' is at least a grain of truth in what he
says. Accusations have come from all
sides, from players, ﬁom ex-players,
.-‘ xm« x— mi itatr ‘s. Andb' eball’s

demons

much-touted current plan is hardly the
effective one that Bud Selig would like
you to believe. MLB’s medical director
had little or no clue about what exactly

[it entailed while testifj ing before

Congress; 4' 4-are player have ' een
sh_r ked by : media w .1 repi ers
told them that current steroid penalties
are effectively wrist-slaps (fines, and
the player gets to. retain anonymity).
The system is designed primarily
to protect big stars. One anonymous
non-star player wisely hypothesized
that the anonymity clause would likely
be waived for low-profile players; a
few scapegoats to toss to the dogs.
Baseball is about kicking the dirt
off your cleats, taking a few warmup
swings, and playing ball. It sure as hell

, isn’t about sticking yu ‘rself ‘ 'ith

needles in an obsessive quest for power
hitting. Yet when baseball’s greatest
“heroes” present it as such, kids
emulate. Present at the Congressional
hearing were the families of kids who
had injected themselves in an attempt
to imitate their heroes, resulting in fatal
and tragic consequences. All this from
a simple game of baseballs, bats, and
gloves.

The stain that Pete Rose left on
the game, though it was worsened by
his repeated denials,  nothing
compared to this egregiousness. Rose
gambled on the sport. These players
cheat. Rose’s gambling, to look at it
from a W&L perspective, was not
dishonorable. His denials were, of
course, but far worse than the gambling
is the cheating of steroid - sers. They
ess ntially r _-upt the 6:. nce c .he
game by turning hitting from a science
into a drug habit. They make the game
unfair to clean players. They make the

. game a sham chemical contest instead
, of ‘the’ great ‘game that it should be.
, if they did or didn’t- Rafael Palmiero =

They‘hurt the sport in ways that Pete
Rose never has, and never could.

The ghost of steroids will linger,
over this entire season- McGwire will
rightfully go down in shame, question
marks will linger around Barry Bonds’
run at the all-time home run record, and
kids will continue to follcwv the roads
trodden by their spring heroes.

Meanwhile, no one in MLB has
the guts to just face it, confess what’s
past, and do their best to ﬁx the sport,
except maybe Kevin Towers.

But don’t. expect Cmseco’s hate,
or everyone else’s denial" to shin!‘ up
the port of r.ebal1 any. re soo.

 

 

s - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

 

L This week’s topic:
.: Fancy Dress and

party stories

' ' -At least my date didn’t leave me to

do calculus homework this year.

‘ 1- -Another Fancy Dress like that will

kill the function.

-This was the best Fancy Dress ever!
The decorations were awesome and
there weren’t too many so there was

' room to actually move.

-I never made it to Fancy Dress last

‘ A, night...

-Did anyone else think the decorations
looked like a Waddell Elementary craft

- project?

-I danced like an Egyptian.

-My date was hotter than your date.

-What was up with all the student
security?

-I wish I would have been allowed
to climb the Great Pyramids.

-FD l0O’s theme should be “Gone
with the Wind,”

-1 didn’t see too many Law students
at Fancy Dress. I think it should get
moved back to the ﬁrst weekend of
March next year.

-So my sober driver was driving me
home Saturday and we hit a dog.

-I burned my little black book after
FD. I have decided to join a convent
after Saturday night.

Next week’s topic:
Why you’re ready
for Spring Term

Lesson on stopping your
friends from hooking—up

By Eka Akpakip and Bree Melton
Breka

Yeah, you knew we’d be back.
And this week instead of rehashing crazy
FD stories (and believe us, there are
manyl), we’re going to provide you with
a little tutorial on the subtle art that is cock-

' blocking.

So let’s set the scene: It’s Friday
night, around 10:17 pm. The band is just
getting started, you’re making the rounds

O to greet the brothers you know, and the

two shots of JD still warm in your belly
(because you never go out without
pregaming, it’s simply unheard of!). The

' . girl you came with sidles up to you, two

beers in hand. You reach for one,
“Thanks!” She laughs and pulls the Natty
out of the way. “Dude, I’m double-
ﬁstingl” You roll your eyes, but turn back
to the frat lord you’re “getting to know.”
A pouty look -from you and he’s
volunteered to fetch you a beer. Now
where did your double-fisting friend
disappear to?

Oh, there she is, elbowing her
way to the front of the band. And oh dear,
her sense of rhythm is already evaporating.
Yep, just as you thought: two empties lie

» at her feet and two fresh ones are in hand.

Okay. . .now who is that sketchy mofo who
thinks he can dance with her? You know
it ’s a bad idea, she — well she would hook
up with a wall at this point - and. . .it seems
like that frat boy’s name is “Wall” tonight.
What’s the next course of action, you ask?

1. You could let it happen. The cute
frat lord has just returned with your beer.

1 I And hell if you’ll let your girl mess up

your game another weekend! But, oh
gosh, she’s already making out with
“Wall” and getting catcalls from the band.
Well, she can have her fun at the party,
but at least make sure she leaves with you.

2. You could pull your girl aside
(the bathroom is a nice, discrete place, and

, - , you’re pretty sure “Wall” is waiting right
i I outside for her). Ask her, “Do you really
' want to do this?” Make sure to look in

her eyes and see if she can actually focus.
If she, at this point, attempts to make out
with you, put her on Traveller and send
her home. Her night is officially over.

3. Point her in another direction.

At least then you’ll have another ﬁﬁeen
minutes with your cute frat boy (just
talking and getting to know each other
of course!) before you have to intervene
again.

4. There is always the option of
pulling the “Wall” aside. At this point,
it’s your discretion what to do. First,
judge the “Wall’s”'level of sobriety. If

. he, like your friend, would probably be

satisﬁed with anyone, point him in the
direction of another girl who seems at
least a little more coherent and just as
receptive. Second, you could go for
the tough girl approach.

If you know enough brothers,
threaten to sic them on him. This is
particularly effective in the fall when
boys are afraid of getting balled. Of
course, you could always ﬂex your own
guns. Helpful hint from Breka: When
trying to prove you’re buff, ask people
to feel your biceps rather than your
pecs. As a girl, this is far more
appropriate. The ﬁnal option when
talking to the “Wall” is to hit on him
yourself. Don’t go too far, just enough
to distract him from your friend. Then
shut him down.

The one ﬂaw to this
suggestion is some boys see this as an
opportunity for a little thing called
“ménage a trois.” So make sure to
separate yourself from your friend
before implementing this plan.

5. Of course, you, being the hot
social butterﬂy that you are, have plenty
of other parties at which to make
appearances. Your highly intoxicated
friend will be easily swayed, and you
can continue partying with her out of
harm’s way. . .for now.

Any way, all I know is l’ve cock-
blocked for guys and girls both.
Unfortunately for the guys, they seem
to be on the receiving end more often
than not. Sometimes you’ve just got
to look out for your brothers. When
you see him with a lady he’s going to
regret in the morning, you know what
to do. We’ve given you the tools, you
know the situation. And now with your
sweet cock-blocking skills, all the
gangs will want you. Next week’s
article will detail some real-life
outcomes.

You know it’s a bad idea, she — well she
would hook up with a wall at this point, A
and. . .it seems like that frat boy ’s name is

“Wall” tonight.

Fisherman adds to
Bush’s Axis of Evil

Drunk girls, mayonnaise, and stupid questions added

By Hugh Trout
TneFisherman

While President Bush outlined a
few countries that embodied a wholly un-
American, and therefore evil spirit, I feel
that he unfortunately failed to include
other forces and people of similar evil
aspirations. Now while this may just be
one man’s opinion, I would urge you all
to note that I was one of the first people in
the country to use phrases such as, “That’s
Da Bomb” and “That’s what she said!”...so
I’m pretty cool. I also started the Macarena
but stopped doing it when everyone else
was because it wasn’t cool and
underground anymore. But anyway, back
to the Axis of Evil. To put it simply, there
are much needed additions that I will
present here in the spirit of civic duty and
patriotism. -

That drunk girl who cut in line at
the beer pong table is the ﬁrstaddition.
It’s rude, it’s unbecoming of a W&L
student and most importantly: it’s evil.
Who does she think she is? And what’s
worse is that shecan barely hit a cup, and
you and your friend didn’t want to have
to stand by and baby-sit the table while
you were waiting. You have people to talk
to and there is no excuse for her behavior,
but you are too nice of a person to call her
out on it. Besides, tomorrow morning she
will receive plenty of punishment all of
her own. But nevertheless, she is now in
the Axis.

“Hey, what’s going on...do you
remember what my name is?” That is the
second addition to the Axis of Evil. The

' question itself, that is. If you think that

That drunk girl who cut in line at the beer pong
table is the first addition. It’s rude, it’s unbe-
coming of a W&L student, and most impor-
tantly: it’s evil. Who does she think she is?
And what’s worse is that she can barely hit a

cup. ..

the person was too drunk to remember
your name but clearly remembers your
face, be classy about it. Subtly slip your
name into the conversation to help them
out. Only a malicious person would call
the person out on it because they clearly
feel bad enough about it as it is. Besides,

’ asking that question in a conversation is

equivalent to setting a bear trap of
awkwardness and then grabbing the other
person and jumping right in it. It will be a
painful awkwardness that will cling on to
you both not only for that night, but
whenever you see each other.

Fourth addition: Due de Richelieu
and his most heinous creation. For those
of you who are unfamiliar with who this
evil man is or his legacy, I will explain.
In 1756, this French Chef in a ﬁt of evil
rage decided to mix ingredients that alone
are ﬁne, but together create a force of
wickedness so strong that it has been
impossible to eradicate, despite my best
efforts. By combining egg yolks, oil,
vinegar, and selected evil seasonings, he
was able to create a substance of sin that
has lived long beyond the natural span of
his own evil life. This horrible creation
has been spread around the world and is

commonly known to the American people
as mayonnaise. It’s disgusting, fattening,
and the sick bastard that invented it made
sure it would camouﬂage with the color
of bread so as to trick and haunt me. And
while I enjoy other French contributions
to my diet such as “Freedom” fries, they
will never be able to receive forgiveness
for this crime.

I understand and respect if you have ,

issues with some of these new additions.
However, it must be understood that for
purposes of National Security which I
cannot disclose, it’s for the good of the
country. If you like mayonnaise then you
probably also enjoy beating puppies,
yelling at children and other similarly evil
activities. But there may be a few good
individuals out there who are just confused
and eat mayonnaise without knowing of its
inherent evil. If this is you, please seek
immediate help and make your best effort
to help other friends if they suﬁer from the
same condition. Hopefully by
eradicating these subtle and cunning
evils we can make this world a better
place where we all don’t have to wait
around the beer pong table looking like
huge D-bags.

Gettinga piece of
the corporate pie

By Marshall Rule

Potato Man

Everyone knows that today’s world
is a corporate one. It has taken over sports,
clothes and every day life.

No longer are stadiums named after
some old rich guy, but rather after some
old rich guy’s company. These companies
don’t care about the team, but they just
want to get their name out to the world.

This has become a very lucrative

‘business. And since I am all about making

money, I ﬁgured I would get a piece of
the pie. I am going to be selling the
naming rights to everything I do.

My Journalism 203 paper will be
brought to you by Frank’s Manure. “It’s
the best bullshit this side of the
Mississippi...just like this paper.” That
one probably won’t get me much money,
because it only reaches my professor who
will inevitably stop reading after page two,
before just giving me my inevitable F, with
a side note saying, “try another major.”

But the one that will make me rich
is my pick up lines sponsored by Michelob
Amberbock, “rich but not smooth.” Every
time I crash and burn with a girl, a voice
will come from the sky saying, “rich, but
not smooth, luckily Amberbock beer is
rich and smooth.” And once the W&L girl
hears that I am rich (or so she thinks), she
will be all over me like Michael Jackson
on Macaulay Culkin.

Boxers have made a fortune off of
this for years. They get a company’s name
printed on their back, and the whole world
will see it. So to cash in on that, I will be
getting a tattoo advertising for Dr.
Heingleman’s colonies company. Now

every time the wife of the Dean of High.

Point College takes a picture of me
streaking their quad, she and all who she
shows the picture to will see that
advertisement along with my two
abnormally white cheeks (On a side note,
I later found out that the High Point
experience, as we have come to call it,
nearly ended the greek system at High
Point).

Advertising has gotten so out of
control that they are now putting
advertisements above public restroom
urinals. I’ve actually seen advertisements
in the urinal. Yes, gentlemen, you can read
about Dr. Scholls new product, while
urinating on its advertisement.

Every piece of clothing advertises
itself. We are walking billboards and we
pay extra to advertise for better companies
like Polo and Patagonia. But hey, if a 90
dollar polo shirt helps get you laid, more
power to you.

The best advertisements are the
cheap ones that are in the back of
magazines. The Liberator is my personal
favorite. Companies have actually come
out with a large square pillow for girls to
lie on during sex. Good idea, let’s make

it even easier for a girl to fall asleep/pass
out during sex.

The last ﬁve pages of Maxim are
just trashy advertisements from companies
that should not be able to stay in business.
For instance, if you send 64 dollars to SHN
Tech, Inc., they promise to send you
supplements that will make you grow
taller. Seriously, how is this company
surviving? And I wdn’t even get into the
details of the full page ads in the back.
Let’s just say that I never knew that one
pill can help you regain your conﬁdence
and put a smile on her face.

Ad placement is also becoming a
multi million dollar business. An ad
placement in the television show “The
Apprentice,” cost up to one million
dollars. Pepsi will pay millions of dollars
to have a Pepsi truck drive by in the
background of a movie, a three second
advertisement for millions of dollars.

Advertising is where the money is.
I am ready to cash in on it. That’s why
this article is brought to you by Smimoff
Vodka... if I can write this good hung
over, imagine what I could have done
drunk.

My Journalism 203 paper will be brought to you
by Frank’s Manure. “It’s the best bullshit this
side of the Mississippi. . just like this paper.”
That one probably won’t- get me much money,
because it only reaches my professor who will
inevitably stop reading after page two, before.
just giving me my inevitable F, with a side note
saying, try another major.
 

V

 

-A-.~.-.\~.-.  ..a-.u—.m. :. .1 »«r..,-»- - :22“ v - - .. .  -.  ».v— ..- ~—.-. 1-.  -.,...   --_;, -- I ..  », — .   —- . »,-.. .- -» v , V —.

7'ra*."rA-re h .

 

.;. e 373. 755
*‘R552 ,
'  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
THE RING=TUM PHI.

BY TH_E STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

47 26 -
MONDAY, MARCH 28,2005 voLuMEgaII,NuMBEn2€ _

HOT TICKET

Acting out

Opening night has come and gone
and the One Acts have proved to be a
raving success. But you haven’t
missed your chance to catch a show
in the Johnson theater! Come
Monday and Wednesday, March 28
and 29. at 8:00 p.m. and see “The
Night No One Died,” “The Bone
Violin,” and “Porcelain and Pink.”
Or show for an outrageous night on
Tuesday, March 29, at 9:00 p.m. and
watch “Bunnies,” “American
Tropical,” and “Intervention.”

Focking hilarious

Ready for a laugh? “Meet the
Fockers” will run in the Commons
theater at 7 p.m. on Mon. March 28,
and at 9:30 p.m. on Tues. March 29
and Thurs. March 31.

 

WHAT’S INSIDE P

Phi Phizzles

Notice some sarcasm and lies in this
week’s news? lt’s that time of year
where we include a special feature
section devoted to April Fool’s Day.
We took our name this year from a
1923 Calyx reference to the Phi,
calling us The Ring—Tum Phizzle.
Just remember, it’s all in good fun!
President Burish. Dean Watkins, Burr
Datz, and all of our hundreds of
lovely vice presidents, please don't
sue for libel! See page 3-4.

SIMPLE LIFE

Don ’t let exam week sneak up on
you! Follow our simple tips so you
can make arr easy getaway the
minute your last exam is over

Stock up on blue books if you’ll
need them for exams. You’ll have
unneeded stress ‘if you’re running like
a maniac to the bookstore in the last
three minutes before your politics
exam.

Do laundry. You don’t want to have
to worry about making sure you have
enough clean clothes in the middle of
stressful ﬁnals.

Refrigerator‘ getting low? Time to
restock on good healthy brain foods
before things get more hectic! If
you’re hungry and running out the
door, you can grab an energy bar and
an orange juice, and you’ll be good
to go.

Pack light. Make your packing list
way ahead of time if you’re heading
out so you can just throw things in
the suitcase and haul it when your
last exam is over. And be sure to
double-check the weather conditions
where you’re going so some
unexpected cold front doesn’t ruin
your fun.

Conﬁrm your travel details. Check-
with your ride to the airport, get
online and make sure you have a
ﬂight reservation and seat
assignment, call the hotel in Destin
and make sure you do indeed have
that room with a view of the beach
under your name.

Prep your room. Take out the trash,
make babysitting arrangements for
your goldﬁsh, wash the dishes.

Road trip! Gas up the car, get oil
checked, and clean out the trunk
because you’re about to attempt the
impossible: packing your suitcase
and those of your three best friends
in that tiny little space.

Stay healthy! Keep those pockets
full of Halls Defense supplement
drops with Vitamin C. The last thing
you need is to be sick for exams.

Softer lines in store for trident 

By Katherine Shell
ASSIST ANT NEWS EDITOR

January’s Strategic Planning report
stated that one of the University’s goals
would be to reevaluate the trident as a
symbol and look into the possibility of
altering the symbol to avoid
misrepresenting what the trident stands for.
Tim Kolly, Vice President of Public Affairs
and Communication, said that this is a
response to numerous people feeling that
the trident “looked harsh, looked ominous,
or reminded them of the swastika.”

The trident was created in the early
1900s by a student, and later adopted by
the University as a symbol. Today, the
trident remains recognizable as a symbol
of the W&L community, a symbol not
changed for over seventy—five years.
However, Kolly said that he felt the symbol
would have originally been created
differently had the 1930s been a question.
“People have commented on it for as least

“We create traditions all the time. ”

—- TIM KOLLY, VICE PRESIDENT FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRS

as long as I have been here,” said Kolly,
who has been part of the W&L
Communications department for eight
months. Though the controversy
surrounding the trident is usually limited
to people who do not know the history of
the symbol or W&L, it is clear that the
University is concerned about outsider
perceptions of W&L’s symbols.

“If we’re getting substantial
feedback,” said Kolly,.the University
should look into what the trident
represents to the public.

However. though looking into
changing the trident is a possibility in the
near future, the time-honored symbol will
remain part of the school. “Nobody is
suggesting that we replace it. People like

the trident as a symbol. Suggestions have
been to soften the lines of it,” said Kolly.

Changes could possibly include
straightening the lines of the prongs to
separate from the Nazi swastika. The
trident will remain no matter the outcome
of the task force’s reports, but may no
longer be recognizable as the past trident.

Should W&L students be concerned
that one of W&L’s favored traditions may
be sinking into the past?

No, said Kolly, “we create traditions
all the time.”

Students can look forward to a
modernized trident to replace the one that
has been used since the early twentieth

century.
However, Kolly also added that

“nothing has been decided.” Students and
the W&L community are invited to share

their opinions about the trident and the . ' L

other issues up for discussing in the
Strategic Planning sessions continuing
through the summer. There is an online
drop—box that provides questions with
answer space. It does not, however, leave
room for speciﬁc ideas that the contributor
feels needs to be focused on. If a student
or faculty member has opinions that do
not fit into the space available online,
please contact members of the individual
task forces.

Kolly stated that it is “important for
students to weigh in and give our
opinions,” and students should share those
with the task forces during the current
comment period, which will last until
summer.

For more information, students and
faculty should feel free to email Provost

‘Williams at williamsh@wlu.edu or Tim

Kolly at kollyt@wlu.edu.

W&L im

By Chris Laudemman

EDITOR-|N—CHIEF

The search for the new Dean of the
College is complete and the new dean,
believing the university is in “very good
shape”-, does not feel the need to “shake
things up.”

Washington and Lee hired Hank
Dobin, Associate Dean of the College at
Princeton, to fill the post currently held
by Interim Dean Jeanine Stewart last
week.

Dobin said the biggest challenge to
coming to a new institution is
understanding the culture.

“You really have to go in with the
expectation you have a lot to learn; that’s
the key challenge,” Dobin said.

Provost Thomas Williams said that
the applicant pool was very strong and the
search committee was “comparing
strengths to strengths.”

Dobin began his teaching career at
University of Maryland—College Park
after graduating from Stanford. He
taught for 13 years and was Associate

I Chairman of the English Department,

which had 70 members. He was elected
chair of the College Park Senate and two
years later he became the Associate Dean
of the College at Princeton. He has
served in that capacity for the last nine
years.

Williams, who had the ﬁnal call in
who was hired, said that Dobin brought
signiﬁcant administrative skills with an
undergraduate emphasis to the table.
While at Princeton, he structured General
Education requirements, ran the
undergraduate writing program and
freshman seminar program, guided
Princeton through its reaccredidation
process, and was an award winning
teacher.

Dobin said he ended up at Princeton

because of the attention they show
undergraduates combined with the
strengths of large research university.

“I wanted to be at a school where
everyone agreed undergraduate education
is the top priority,” said Dobin. “W&L is
among the best and I immediately
jumped.”

Dobin acknowledged that there is
much planning occurring on campus. He
said that he needs to ﬁnd his place, but to
do that he needs to sit back, listen, and
learn much in the beginning.

“[Dobin] is wise enough to know
that W&L is different from Princeton,”
Williams said.

His ideas, “in very broad terms,”
include working closely with college
faculty to strengthen the breadth and depth
of the curriculum, developing new areas
and strengthening current departments,
and creating new programs for the
freshman year and new interdisciplinary

ports longtime Ivy Dean

programs.

“It would be foolish to be specific
at this point,” Dobin said. “I won’t be shy
once I get to campus and realize how
things are going.” .

While visiting W&L, he did not see
anything that he believed required
immediate change.

That sentiment includes the current
Associate Deans. He said that he liked
them both very much and that if they
wanted to stay, they would be on his staff.

Provost Williams said that both
Associate Deans, Dean Bent and Dean
Mayock, are completing their
appointments. Interim Dean Stewart is a
tenured member of the faculty and can
return to her post in the Psychology
Department.

Dobin said that he would like to
teach as early as his second year in the
English Department. His specialty is
Shakespeare.

Settle wins

major award

By Katherine Shell
ASSIST ANT NEWS EDITOR

On March 17, 2005, Professor
Frank Settle was awarded the Calvin
Giddings Award for Excellence in
Education. Settle will be given the award
at the national meeting of the American
Chemical Society next fall in D.C.

Out of the ﬁfty to sixty thousand
chemists in America, Settle was chosen for
this award based on his continuing
contributions to chemistry in the
classroom and research as a whole.
According to the W&L Press Release,
“With over forty publications to his name,
including the best-selling textbook
“Instrumental Methods of Analysis (6th
edition), numerous awards for both
teaching and research, a record of
classroom innovation and an impressive
roster of former students who are now
respected chemists, Settle exempliﬁes the
qualities looked for in recipients of the 1.
Calvin Giddins Award.” Settle has been a
professor at W&L since 1998, and worked
at VMI for twenty—eight years before that.

The J. Calvin Giddins Award is
given to the person best exemplifying
various qualities, including “authorship of
inﬂuential books or courses; creation and
use of innovative techniques in teaching
analytical chemistry; encouraging
student’s pursuits of professional careers
in chemistry through research, mentorship
or teaching and designing improved lab
equipment,” stated the March 23 Press
Release. At VMI, Settle received three
faculty awards and was selected as an
outstanding faculty by the Virginia
Council of Higher Education. I

According to the Press Release,
Settle’s response to the award was to say
that “one of the most gratifying aspects of
my career has been the opportunity to work
with bright, interested students for 28 years
at VMI and most recently, six years at
W&L. It has been rewarding to follow
their careers in industry, business and
academics.”

 

ASOULFUL VOICE .

KELLV BOSS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Soulful Sounds heard Tuesday nigncgnefrom Evans Hall where the Harlem Gospel Choir performed.

. 

Law students win mediation competition

Press Release
WASHINGTON 8. LEE

Tim McKeen and Chris Bullard,
both second~year students at Washington

and Lee University’s School of Law, have '

won ﬁrst place in the 2005 American Bar
Association (ABA) Regional Mediation
Competition held at Regent University
School of Law in Virginia Beach, Va., on
Feb. 26-27.

As regional champions, McKeen

and Bullard will go on to represent
Washington and Lee at the ABA National
Mediation Competition on April 13-14 in
Los Angeles. The competition will be held
in conjunction with the armual meeting of
the association’s Section of Dispute
Resolution.

Their win also gives W&L" the
opportunity to host the 2006 regional
competition.

Also representing Washington and
Lee at the regional competition were Brian

Wilberg and Kelly Behre, both third-year .

law students.
The Washington and Lee Mediation
Competition is an ABA Section of Dispute

Resolution-sponsored forum offered to
help develop practical legal skills. The f

competition, in which law students act as
advocates and clients in a mediation
setting, measures how well students model
appropriate preparation for and

representation of a client in mediation, and ._
. provides students valuable experience in

the mediation process.

 

 

 s. l.§é:7‘¢‘&%§.}f—l;N Llttrms
*vAsH!Nmr;:N a LE.-‘E !Jl'\l»’V'E"c-».StT\

Lt“? 3*" 2 . . as

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 2
V

     
 

2 '1'-S0

 

MG\lDAY,MARCl-|28,&

THIS WEEK

TLESDAY, MARC!-I29
lMen’s Tennis at Roanoke 3:00

 Y, MARC!-IN

. -Baseball vs. Bridgewater 3:00

'Men’s LAX vs. RMC 3:30
-Women’s LAX vs. Hollins 4:30

FiAY,APHL8
'Track at Duke TBA
-Riding at Zones TBA

SATURDAY, APRI.9

-Base vs. Lynchburg; 12:00
-Men’s Lax at Roanoke; 1:00
-Women’s Lax at Sweet Briar; 2:00
'Track at Duke; TBA

SPORTS BRIEFS

W&LWomen’sTennisDeteals
Trinity (Texas), 7-2 (325)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team improved to a
perfect 14-0 with a 7-2 victory over
fifth-ranked Trinity (Texas) at the Fab
Five Tournament on Friday afternoon
in Pomona, Calif.

W&L Men’s Tennis Defeats Mary
Washington, 5-2(3/24)

The 10th-ranked Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team improved to 11-4
on the season with a 5-2 victory over
eighth-ranked Mary Washington on
Thursday afternoon in Fredericksburg,
Va.

W&LBaseballDefeats
Bridgewaler,11-8(3/24)

Junior first baseman Taylor
McConnell (Vestal, N.Y./Vestal)
smacked a three-run double in the
ﬁfth inning to give Washington and
Lee ‘a 7-6 lead en foiite to an"11-8
victory over Bridgewater  ODAC
baseball action on Thursday afternoon
in Bridgewater, Va.

W&L GolfTIes for Fﬂh at Golden
|slehvitational(3l20)

The Washington and Lee golf team
tied for ﬁfth out of 24 teams at the
Golden Isle Invitational in Jekyll
Island, Ga. The Generals fired a 302-
294-303—899 overall and were led
by freshman Steven Spivey
(Martinsville, Va./Martinsville), who
placed third overall with a 69-72-75-
216.

Third Annual University ‘George
Rayfsquashballtoumament '
Roderick Dowling took home men’s
champion by defeating Mike Fisher,
while Rachel Chisolm was able to
defeat Nike Tsiknakis for the women’s
championship.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop

273 Raphine Road
Raphlne, VA 24472

sm4s522o - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage‘ nestled along the creek

which carries a fabulous selection of basic .
and novelty yams, kits. needles and

accessories. Customer service from start to

ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and

Intemet accessibility made 633!-

Callforworkshowzdassinformation.

Halfway between Lexington and Stauntan
On [-81 / I-64 at exit 205, Rankine 4miles west on
Rome   Road. Located (ma Working
fann that ofers "U-PICA " opp0rIUnlFl€5f0’ fmh
. fruit when in season.

'lhes - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
: 

Women’s ax has good week of p a

BySa'd1Bloom

$\K]7i STAFFWRITER

Three games in one week didn’t
faze the Women’s Lacrosse team.
Currently undefeated in the ODAC
conference, the team has charged the ﬁeld
with an obvious passion for the game and
for victory.

The Generals played a perfect game
Tuesday against Bridgewater, defeating
the ODAC team 18-0, but suffered a
heartbreaking loss to Williams Wednesday
(5-7),

Twelve Generals scored in the game
including Kelly Evans who led the team
with three goals. Mallory Lobisser, Louisa
Feve, and Megan Slosson each also added
two goals.

Amanda Strickler also added three
assists in the game. Six other Generals’
players also tallied an assist.

Junior Kate Lester pulled the
Generals out of a slump to a tied game
shortly before half-time, but Williams
scored with only a little over a minute left

in the half to give Williams a 4-3 lead.

In the second half, Williams pulled
intothe lead, but Lester again narrowed
the gap and put the Generals back in the
game.

Unfortunately scores by freshman
Sarah Adkins and senior Natalya
Hoobchaak were not enough in the end to
put the Generals back in the lead.

Freshman Sarah Tilbor manned the
goal for the Generals, making six saves.
Freshmen additions Tilbor and Christine
Bender have been essential elements to the
Women’s lacrosse force.

Named rookie and scholar of the
week by womenslacrosse.com,. Tilbor has
started as goalie for the Generals and
claimed the best save record in the ODAC.

Bender was named rookie of the
week, having scored three crucial goals to
help defeat rival Franklin and Marshall last
Saturday. Bender is also and is currently
ranked second on the team.

The Generals continue their season
next Wednesday when they take Hollins
on at home.

TAKE ME OUTTO THE BALL GAME

CORBIN BLACKFORD / PHOTO EDITOR

111eGer|eralsbaseballtearnextendeditsreoordto214atta'defeaﬁng

Bridgewaler11-8Thursdayaltemoon. Adam Bullockgotthingsstartedoffwith A

athree-run homerun intheseoond inningtotakethe lead 3-0. Afterlosingthe
early lead Taylor McConne|l’s three-run double regained it in theﬁﬂh inning.
Dave Millerand Soottciosselinkeaohadded RBI singles. Mil|erwent3-5 inthe
batters box,asdidteammateJordanWesley. Freshman leﬂydohn Parker
allowedﬁveearned runsoff10hils insixinnings. Thewin against Bridgewater
oomesalteran extra-inningvictoryoverShenandod1onTueeday. Gosselink
hitagarnevvinning RBI single inthe bottomofthethirteenlh inningtogetthe
win. Gosselinkhit4-6 inthegame,and Mcconnelltalliedthreehitsoffofsixat
bats. Arematohwilh Bridgewaterissetforwednosday, Marchy30athome.

 

A $450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free (yes,
free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 0OO—$2, 000 in
earnings for your group. Call 'I'C)DAY for a $450 bonus
when you schedule your non—sales fundraiser with
CarnpusFundraiser. Contact Can*pusFundraiser, (888)

JON ROGERS I STAFF PHOTOGR ' ER

TheWoma1’slaxtearnhopestokeepﬂ'eMnninggdngmmeer1dofﬂ1eseasorI

Tennis teams still rolling

Bymashunue .
ll/lANM§\G$lU"l

1. Lindsay Hagerman (W&L) def.
Jackie Mendillo (TU) 6-2, 6-0

2. Emily Applegate (W&L) def.

. Alicia Hunt (TU) 6-2, 4-6, 6-3

3. Ginny Wortham (W&L) def.
Laura Steinmetz (TU) 3-6, 7-5, 6-4

4. Kristen McClung (W&L) def.
Megan Suarez (TU) 6-1, 6-0

5. Leah Weston (W &L) def. Christy
Austin (TU) 4-6, 6-0, 7-5

6. Katie Kingsbury (W&L) def.
Leigh Pankonien (TU) 6-1, 6-1

The Men’s and Women’s tennis
teams continued to roll last week with two
wins.

The tenth ranked Men’s team
defeated eighth ranked Mary Washington
5-2 last Thursday, losing only one singles
match.

1. Paul McClure (W&L) def. Paul
Bristow (UMW) 6-1, 6-2

2. Jon Clair (UMW) def. David
Shay (W&L) 2-6, 6-1, 7-5 .

3. Jon Malooly (W&L) def. Matt
Rogers (UMW) 6-3, 7-6

In doubles competition Trinity was
able to win two of the three matches.

1. Christy Austin/Laura Steinmetz
4. Jeff Lusk (W&L) def. Nate (TU) def. Lindsay Hagerman/Ginny
Hathaway (UMW) 6-2, 6-2 Wortham (W &L) 9-8 (7-4)
5. Jordan Eichenberger (W &L) def. 2. Emily Apple gate/Kristen
Jon Pollak (UMW) 6-2, 6-4 McClung (W&L) def. Jackie Mendillol
6. Charles Anderson (W&L) def. Megan Suarez (TU) 8-1
Erik Thorell (UMW) 6-3, 6-1 3. Leigh Pankonien/Alicia Hunt
(TU) def. Lora Farris/Leah Weston (W &L)
Meanwhile, the Women’s team (#3) 8-5
defeated Trinity (Texas, #5) 7-2 winning
all of its singles competitions on Friday

afternoon. remain undefeated at 14-0.

Position Announcement:
Possible Opening for an

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

The Washingtonand Lee Undergraduate Ofﬁce of
Admissions Wishes to announce a possible opening for
an Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities include
extensive recruitment travel, conducting student
interviews and group information sessions, and
evaluating applications. Strong communication skills
and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be willing and
able to work as part of a highly successful admissions
team, yet will be capable of creative self-direction.
Some evening and weekend work is necessary.
Candidates should be willing to commit to two years
in the position.

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a ‘valid driver’s
license. All interested candidates should submit a
cover letter and resume, including two references, no
later than Friday, April 1st. All materials should be
sent to:

Jonathan Webster

Associate Dean of Admissions

Ofﬁce of Admissions Lexington, VA 24450

92-3-3238 .

1999 Audi A4 lluattro

xu radio. 12 on oliantler. uoodicontlition.
  $11,500. 9alI261-5598.

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS
Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!

www.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

 

With the win, the Generals women I

   

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

No -IIUM PHIZZLE.

BY THE Aﬂi5Ei*€lSl"RA"l'lON ANDHFOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 2002

I School Ends Its Co-  

‘1

Educational Years,

  feminazis take over

The “Good Ole Boy Network” is in jeopardy. What
would Bobby Lee say aboutan all—female campus?

ByKhssyKomeria1

bestlitllelmteeverm

For the last twenty years,
Washington and Lee University has
admitted both male and female students
to its undergraduate liberal arts college.
However, the school was entirely male
during the years prior, from 1749 to 1985.
Since becoming co-ed, the male to female
ratio has finally reached a near-perfect
balance.

Recent statistics on the incoming
class of 2009 conﬁrm this ratio. While
some may think equality between male and
female students has been achieved,
administrators and the board of trustees
realize the women are at a 236-year
disadvantage.

To recompense, they have decided
to stop admitting male students, beginning
with the class of 2010, and allow the
school to convert to an all-female school
through the year 2246.

“We owe this to an entire gender,”
said Philip Norwood, Rector of the Board
of Trustees. “Washington and Lee deﬁnes
itself with honor and integrity. It is
impossible to continue to uphold those
things while ignoring this massive
injustice to the female population.”

The Board has set out several
goals for its women-only period. These
include: taking hundreds of black and
white photos of smiling female students
to hang in buildings on campus,
establishing exclusive, feminine traditions,
and perhaps ﬁnding a matriarch to work
integrally with the school, so that her name
be added to the ofﬁcial name (which was
changed often in the its early years, but

has remained Washington and Lee since
1871).

The “de—coeducationization” of
the University is not anticipated to effect
the quality of education at W & L,
although the effects on campus social life
are inevitable. '

With an al1—female student body, the
school will be able to refurbish all men’s
fraternity houses into sorority houses,
expanding Greek opportunities for new
generations of Generals.

“I’d say it’s a good thing,” said
Kristin Powell, adviser of Panhellenic.
“Ideally, over the next 200-years, W & L
should be able to obtain chapters of each
of the 26 national sororities.”

Current female students also
support the idea.

“V1rginia’s got a bunch of liberal
arts colleges for women. We’ll just be
another one of them, the best of them,”
said freshman Amy Roberson. “I -guess it
will disappoint boys who consider
Washington and Lee in the future, but not
too much.

They can always revel in the all-
male history of the school and nearly every
other school in the country.”

During the time when the school
admits only women, it will still accept, and
expect, donations from all alumni, male

I and female.

A committee has been formed to
strategically plan changes in campus
buildings and programs to better suit the
new, solely female generation, and they
require funding. ,

For more information about the
University’s plans or to make a
contribution, please contact Dean Dawn
Watkins.

 

Greek Bust ClaiI

Ins another Victim

In its quest to‘ rise in the rankings, has the school gone too far?

ByZORBA

neverbeenlrmrrizsd

The university administration took
another giant step towards erasing any
doubt that their ultimate goal is to destroy
the Greek System on the W&L campus.
Despite repeated claims that “we want to
make the system strong” and “we have
no intention in erasing the Greek culture,”
the latest move by those in the rariﬁed
air (apparently all-too—rarified) of
Washington Hall second ﬂoor seems a
direct indication of their true motive.

Gamma of Virginia chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa has been put on the severest
form of social probation: after their tear-
night celebration of two weeks ago, the
chapter will not be allowed to sponsor
any functions, social or otherwise, for the
next twelve months.

“This came out of nowhere,” said
chapter president Brian Richardson. “We
had made our plans for the initiation
evening, then University Catering
stepped in and the next thing I know the
only options for the evening were regular
or de-caf.” “I pressed for reasons,”
indicated Richardson, “and the only reply
I got was something about debauchery at
a similar event at the College of William
and Mary in 1776.”

“It is well known that W&L Phi
Beta Kappas can hold their booze far
better than their colleagues to the east,”
lamented Richardson, “so it is beyond me

ByBIeeN|uray
laaeperessdtrnegunhom

In a not-unforeseen move, the
science—oriented academic
departments seceded from
Washington and Lee University
Saturday, declaring themselves to
constitute a separate and independent
university.

The departments involved-
Physics, Biology, Psychology,
Computer Science, Chemistry,
Geology and Neuroscience—will
remain in the Science Center.

For these departments, the
secession is seen as an escape from
the overbearing presence of
Washington Hall. Science professors
have long condemned irksome
University regulations of semester
credit maximums, hiring autonomy,
and corporal punishment.

President Thomas G. Burish
issued a passionate statement from
Lee House Sunday afternoon,
warning that “a university divided
cannot hope to increase its
endowment.” He went on to say that
he sincerely hoped that the science
center would fully cooperate with the
university’s attempts to make
amends.

Some read the statement as an
honest effort for conciliation from an

administration; others saw it as a clear
threat and a sign of impending
conﬂict.

“I don’t know how they think
they’re going to survive,” said

affable, caring member of the .

how they can clamp down on us for
behavior over which we had no control.”

Other sources, who prefer to
remain anonymous, point to a series of
celebrations far into the night after the
end of the formal ceremonies held
Thursday evening, March 3, involving
numerous new initiates. These events
were reported to have taken place in a
student lounge in the Chemistry
Department, in the reference room in
Leybum Library, and at the Liberty Hall
Ruins. This latter event involved a
variety of small implements — trowels and
paintbrushes, for example — used for
purposes about which it would be unwise
to speculate.

A As a result of each of these
gatherings, several students were taken
to student health by security. Due to the
“safe haven” policy, it was not possible
to learn from officials the nature of the
injuries treated, but a source in a position
to know said that there were a series of
dislocated ﬁngers treated that evening.

“Something about a secret handshake”
said the source.

“This is not good news for Greek
organizations on campus,” said chapter
secretary—treasurer Marcia France. “In
my opinion, we have always behaved in
an exemplary fashion, and this kind of
interference in the privilege of young
adults to create their own social life
suggests a dark side to the current
university trajectory.” “I should have
known something was afoot when we
had to go so long_ without a chapter
house.”

Classics department head and
Professor of Greek Kevin Crotty
indicated “we are keeping a close eye
on this development.” “Should the
severe pressure on Greek organizations
on campus continue, we will be forced
to take drastic action.” Teaching Greek
in translation, or substituting Aramaic
in place of Greek in the curriculum are
among the possibilities under
discussion, indicated Crotty

“It is well known that W&L Phi Beta Kappas
can hold their booze far better than their col-
leagues to the east,so it is beyond me how they
can clamp down on us for behavior over which

we had no control.”
BhIMiu&I'I,PﬂB&KqpaH£hi

Richard Worthington ’07, an Economics
and Management double major. “I
mean, they don’t have a bookstore or a
dining hall or anything.

“On the other hand,” Worthington
mused, “now that the rest of the school
is all-women, they might have an
advantage. I wish someone had sent out
a Campus Notice about that. I mean,
do I have to go to class today?”

All communication is to be cut off
between the science center and the
university. The science departments
will cease using all facilities outside the
science center, and there will be no
correspondence between members of
either group. The only exception will
be LIFE head Jan Kaufman, who has
announced that she will continue her
missionary work of distributing vats of
condoms to students in need
everywhere. '

Estrangement between the
science departments and the liberal arts
departments is nothing new. Science
students have always been somewhat
isolated from the rest of the university,
due to excessive hours spent in the
science library. Many students from
other departments do not quite
understand what goes on there, since the
science students never actually interact
with other parts of the campus.
Misunderstandings often result.

“My roommate was pre—med
freshman year,” said Donna Michaelson
’08, who is thinking of pursuing a
degree in broadcast journalism. “She
was really weird. She would disappear
for like ﬁve hours at a time and be like,
‘I was at class.’ I was like, yeah, right.
Nobody’s in class for that long. She

the science library.

Estrangement between the science depart-
ments and the liberal arts departments is
nothing new. Science students have always
been somewhat isolated from the rest of the
university, due to excessive hours spent in

. 4- _-;__‘_*w .- 7.. “A .; _: _.__;‘._...'_' ._.,n.

-.:.e..-..__. 2. 422-,“ .~...*_.-~-45::-*.-_«-..~:._n.l;-_._-"-- ;:.‘.-.~_.-__ .*;....._- ._.;.. 9—.‘.lﬁlA£:)I(4>.£-u— .;_-.m...._.._

Science Center departments
to secede from ’l‘he,Col1ege

After a breakdown in negotiations, Burish
worries for admissions numbers.

must have been doing drugs or
something.”

But here and there, you see former
science students walking around in
Newcomb, Tucker, or Huntley Hall.
Their numbers are small; their escapes
were difficult. These rare few tell ghastly
tales of oppression, pain, and privation.
Twenty-hour days of studying are
commonplace. Professors have free rein
to make unreasonable demands and give
harsh punishments for mistakes on tests
and quizzes, with no recourse to advisers,
administrators, or caring parents.
Students are often separated for long
periods of time from family and, friends.

Sara Duckworth ’06 is no
exception. Raised in a family of doctors,
Duckworth came toe Washington and Lee
with the intention of preparing for
medical school. But after two years of
hard labor in the stacks of the science
library, she made a break for freedom.

“I never thought I was going to get
out, she confessed. “When I first
stepped into DuPont Hall, I had tears in
my eyes. It seemed too good to be true.”

“I’m just lucky that I’m not one of
the poor kids left behind,” Duckworth
said.

Another reason for the rift may be
the science students’ strange attachment
to their advisers and professors. With
some difficulty, this reporter tracked

n

down one of the elusive bunch to ‘

comment on the science lifestyle.

“We’re all doing fine,” she said,
despite her haggard appearance.
“Professor France loves us. That’s why
she makes us work so hard. It’s for our
own good. Sorry, what? My name? I
don’t remember.”

Meanwhile, tensions build as
students and faculty alike await the
clash of the two colleges.

“Let Burish \ threaten all he
wants,” Dr. Larry Hurd, ‘head of the
Biology Department, said at a Parmly
Hall rally earlier today. “We are
committed to our scientiﬁc heritage and
we will not back down! We’re going
to the Williams School and DuPont and
Robinson and then we're going to
Washington Hall to take back the
school! Yiiiiiaaaaarrrrgh!”

 

- .4. _;.4.;s-‘..«.'a_.;..,....:_‘_.~...

 

 

    Wewannabean Ivy

 VICE Pf€Sl
to-student
ratio now 1:1

Bycbtheunm
I-Et‘El3T‘OFI\Dt-ISONNBE3

Vice Presidents #1760 and #1761
were hired earlier this week allowing
Washington and Lee to finally achieve its
one to one vice president to student ratio.

But the big surprise of the day was
the ﬁght over the Beta and SPE houses.
Provost Thomas Williams armounced that
Peter Prodigy, Vice President for Early
North Dakotan Recruitment, will be living

A in the SPE house while Sam Silla, Vice

President for Fraternity Dining Room
Chair Violations, will be moving into Beta.

“We are very excited and pleased
with our two newest employees,” said
Williams.

Peter Prodigy, age 8, comes to
Washington and Lee from a remote
elementary school in North Dakota. Peter
was hired to figure out how to recruit
students from the only state not
represented at W&L.

“Peter will bring much to the table,”
William Hartog, Dean of Admissions and
Financial Aid, said. “We have been trying
to crack into North Dakota for years.”

But Peter acknowledges that W&L
is going to have a hard time recruiting in
North Dakota.

“It’s going to be a huge challenge,”
Peter said. “We plan on using all kinds of
cool strategies to bring lots of geographic
diversity to the school like pizza parties
for the gifted classes and free trident belts
to students across the state.”

Silla was previously employed by
the Lexington police department where he
wrote parking tickets for a living.

“There are so many ways to get a

violation,” Silla said. “I can’t wait to start
writing up ﬁnes.”

Fraternities who move a chair onto
their porch, into another room, or more
than a foot from where it is supposed to
be will be ﬁned.

“This is an outrage!” Fratty
McFratterson, President of Kappa Epsilon
Gamma said. “How are we supposed to
sit around as a brotherhood and talk? Is
the school going to buy us more chairs for
our porch?”

The school said it cannot afford to
buy more chairs as a result of hiring the
last two Vice Presidents.

“We have drained the most recent
capital campaign and tuition, room, and
board will all be increasing by at least 40
percent per year,” Steve McAllister, Vice
President for Finance, said. “Of course,
these tuition raises are only to keep up with
our peer institutions.”

“Dean Watkins gets Stonewall
Jackson’s house, even the Dean of
Freshman gets a house,” Joe Grasso, Vice
President for Administration said. “Why
can’t Ihave a house?”

Tim Kolly, Vice President of Public
Affairs, echoed Grasso’s comment.

“I have spent months spinning the
Greek news to the alums so that Beta could
not have the support to return to campus,”
Kolly said. “I think I deserve that house
more than anyone.”

The Vice President for University
Advancement Dennis Cross and Associate
Provost George Carras are expected to
duel over who will residence in the Morris
House next week. Admission is free with
student ID. , '

“I have spent months spinning the Greek
news to the alums so that Beta could not
have the support to return to campus. I think
I deserve that house more than anyone.”

TMKOU.Y,VK£ PE$l'|'OFPl.E.K3AH=AFB

 

IF YOU DO THIS, YOU ARE AN IDIOT

 

S  V »t  V 35 at at W ‘tit
is: Him I   fair’
as is  2? . 2.5..
as I 
1 22 as
  ii’? i”, ‘-
as as at 
as L as as as
 

as as at are as ‘its as -at 2*
as as I ' ’ an f:z:“t'.
tsa as as as

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      

‘  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
 48 Spanish dance 13 1000 bytes
49 bristle 16 battle cry

1 reading placekeeper 51 kind of kiss 17 free—spirit award winner
7 Survival 52 bicycle part 18.shake V

11 little spoon 54 snap 23 plant holder

12 Jen,y,S partner 5 6 rewind 27 misunderstood

14 leftover 57 right on 28 now I know my __s
15 Storyteller 58 famous Matt 30 underappreciated state
16  ﬂower  I10t   [CITY Cl.0th

19 mm 61 shufﬂe 35 clock

20 east wind 62 remote island 36 weather phenom

21 com units 63 entertain 37 Dorothy’s shoe color

v 22 dog noise 39 P331633;

24 h 40 q-tip residue

26 wish 1 pillow home 42 9d°r _

29 car organization 2 finder 43 msamty

31  3 taxi 45 sport  StlCkS

32 not young 4 swingset 46 Italian dessert

33 searching tool 5 growl 47 Fox hit Show

35 president’ 6 metal 50 wh1sﬂ_°

38 with case 7 acoustic 53 °halk1Sh

39 lost 8 not a meter 55 f°1_h°1° folly

41 foot extremity 9 incredulous 56 Chmfs game

44 mr. 10 as well ' 59 yoga mantra

Administration unveils
proposed changes to the
offensive Trident logo

W&L administration

ByLm:lofIheSwords
PES-KJ.LDHAVEE‘lA|<!':Y[E|'

Dean Watkins and President Burish
announced yesterday that they plan to end
the ratline at the Virginia Military Institute.

“We found that the ratline was not
an institution that promoted constructive
dialogue and enduring bonds between
cadets,” said Watkins, “the first year at the
Institute should be about forming healthy
bonds, and we do not feel that forcing 5-
mile, 4 a.m. marches through the snow
facilitates this process.”

The decision was announced
following the presentation of a study by
Kim Tolly, recently hired Vice President
of Coercion of Other Lexington Liberal
Arts Institutions. '

“My investigations at VMI turned
up some very disturbing behavior,” said
Tolly. “New students were made to
exercise repeatedly, and were denied
access to music. It’s absolutely sickening,
and I suspect that many of the poor
individuals who have been exposed to this
treatment will be scarred for life. How

invades the Institute

“We found that the ratline was not an institu-
tion that promoted constructive dialogue and
enduring bonds between cadets”

-DAWNWATKI6,EANGSl'LE1S

 

can new cadets build positive self-
valuation when other cadets habitually
refer to them as rats? It’s like they’re not
even a real class there.”

Part of Tolly’s study recommends a
change in several rat—re1ated terms. For
instance, the term “rats” itself will be
changed to “New Cadets,” while the
infamous, d.ri11—sergeant—like rat—training
group, the Cadre, will become “New Cadet
Educators.”

In the grand strategic plan for the
Institute, Burish plans to replace Breakout,
the strenuous physical activity preceding
the end of the ratline, with Talkout, a time
where the New Cadets are encouraged to
talk about their feelings while sitting on

, “Dare not, ye fools, to question me. 

The

pathetic mortals of VMI will obey or they
will be cast into the 13"‘ level of hell, an
eternity of team-building seminars with

Burr Datz!”

-TIIlﬂ.§-I,W8:l..PilT

 

cushions ‘sipping fruit punch and
munching on Girl Scout cookies.

Additionally, the strategic plan calls
for removing rank from the Institute’s
hierarchy and instead allowing
outstanding Cadets to serve as Residential
Life staff. The most irnpoitant task of the
Residential Life staff will be to ensure
healthy communication and high self-
esteem among Cadets.

“These changes will allow VMI to
let go of its old culture of abuse,” said
Burish. “Our new program will allow
them to focus on building real human
connections.”

Phi editor-in-chief Erin Julius
(gussied up in a pink blouse and a plaid
skirt like the tawdry Catholic schoolgirl
that she is) asked the administrators how
they planned to force the Institute into
compliance with their planned changes.

“Dare not, ye fools, to question me,”
thundered Burish in response. “For 10, I
have a psychology doctorate from the
University of Kansas and have powers
unto a god's! The pathetic mortals of VMI
will obey or they will be cast into the 13*‘

level of hell, an eternity of team-building

seminars with Burr Datz!”
VMI immediately complied. .

 

-.(

 

|IIIG‘DAY,MARG-l28,ZI5

IIDIIIIIIIIS

 

5 OTHERING-TUMPHI

STAFF EDITORIAL

Campus’ secret
societies damage
grounds

Lately crude graffiti has been
appearing throughout our lovely
campus. A new secret society, Gamma
Rho, is following the Cadavers’ lead and
is now blemishing our beautiful campus
with 3rd-grade-style chalk artwork.

It is our understanding that
security is currently investigating the
Cadavers’ last romp through campus,
and have close-up footage of individuals
vandalizing.

Now don’t get us wrong, we love
the concept of secret societies. If the
Cadavers want to dress in black robes
and run around the campus screaming
in high-pitched voices, that is ﬁne with
us. And we thank Cadavers of the past
for donating enough money to build our
illustrious Cadaver Bridge, the longest
concrete suspension bridge in the world.

Cadavers of late, however, have
not improved our school but instead are

- deteriorating its image. And not to

overemphasize the Honor System, but
vandalism is a crime and as such,
members of Washington and Lee’s
student body should not engage is such
behavior. ' .

Preaching about chalk drawings
may seem like a mindless rant, but
Buildings and Grounds cannot remove
the chalk. These ridiculous-looking
semi-permanent drawings cost the
University real dollars in damage.
Honestly, it would be more funny and
less damaging if the Cadavers went
back to leaving paper handouts all over
campus.

And to Gamma Rho: who are
you? what is your point? at least
everyone knows what the Cadavers are
male, pre—med students. for the most
part. Gamma Rho needsbto. explain
itself. ..  . . ~~

.a..~./r’

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson has
ﬁnished sucking up to his profs to give
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0 Election!

Get out there and vote, dammit. You
don’t have to vote for a certain
Opinions editor and author of Ups
and Downs, but let’s actually have a
decent turnout this time, eh?

0Terri Schiavo incident
Parents: make mockery of the courts
before just giving up. Husband:
Extremely poor guardian who’s

probably doing this for wrong reasons.

Congress: Don’t you have anything
better to do?

0 Jesus
Get it? He’s “up.” Hahaha...ahhh,
I’m so going to Hell for that.

QTom Wolfe

The man is just extremely classy.
TWO book signings in the space of
about a month at the ol’ alma mater.

0Black Licorice

I used to hate it, but now my palate
has grown more reﬁned. Also, on a
side note, doesn’t the simple USE of
the word “palate” automatically make
you pretentious?

Osoy Sauce

Does anyone else think it’s overrated?
I mean, I think rice is better
WITHOUT it, to tell you the truth.

Ospam (the e-mail)

I mean, really, you’d think that they’d
have ﬁgured out that I don’t WANT
to reﬁnance at today’s low rates
already.

0 Spam (thefood)

Eggs, tortiHa, grill—cooked Spam.
That, my collegiate friends, is the
height of college dorm cuisine.

0 Last week of classes

So here’s my idea- exams are done
over the last week of class and we cut
three weeks off the school year,
saving us valuable tuition dollars.

A plague o’er everyoneis
house- W&L’s sick year

ByAmeﬁ'Iey

‘II-EBGPCILFE

I think one of the hardest things
about being away from home at college is
when you get sick. Especially when you
are in the phase where you know you’re
sick but you can’t ﬁgure out exactly what’s
wrong with you. I’m the queen of self
diagnosis; I like to go to a website called
ecureme.com where you just type in your
symptoms and it generates a completely
unreliable response.

The internet or my parents are
always my first resource because I like to
be informed and get my mind around
things rather than just going and being
totally surprised with a diagnosis. And let’s
be honest, if you go to the health center
the chances are fairly good that they won‘t
know what’s wrong with you either, even
if they say they do. (I’ve had pretty good
experiences over there, but L’ve. heard
enough stories about rnisdiagnoses to be
on my guard.)

It’s starting to dawn on me that
college is terrible for students’ health.
Honestly, we shouldn’t even be allowed
to go. For starters it cannot be denied that
the lifestyle is very unhealthy at times: too
much drinking, not enough sleep, too
much stress. Multiply by 100 to account
for Washington and Lee’s special stresses
and pressures. Add that little factor that
we are all in communal housing for at least
the first two years. And choosing between
the fried and fried foods that we are served
in d-hall or sorority dining. And then not
only are you much more likely to get mono
and some other infectious diseases than
at any other time of your life,‘ but you are

also less likely to get treatment.

I’ve seen it happen and I’ve
certainly done it myself. You know if you
were at home you would tell your mother
you were sick. She would call and make
you an appointment with the appropriate
doctor (which is huge considering most
college students are too lazy to dial a
phone) and take you out of classes so you
could go. Now, we just hope it will go
away andask everyone we meet what they
think is wrong with us. When it gets
unmanageable or enough people tell you
they think you should “get that checked
out,” you may ﬁnally go to thehealth
center. But personally, I know I’ve started
accumulating a short list of things to ask
my PCP the next thing I’m at home in
Dallas.

So here’s what I’d like to see ,

happen, even though I know I’ll probably
be a giant hypocrite and not do them
myself. People need to get at least seven
or eight hours of sleep a day. Without
enough sleep you cannot function, are in
a bad mood, are so much more likely to
catch the cold that’s going around and in
turn spread it to your friends, and have
ugly circles under your eyes. I thought I’d
add a cosmetic reason just like all of the
effective smoking campaigns nowadays
focus on how you’H smell bad and no one
will want to kiss you. And ask yourself: if
you’re really run down after a long week
of classes, is staying out till 4 am and
getting drunk really the best plan?

And, as simple as it sounds, take
care of yourself when you’re sick. Do a
little intemet research if you want, but
sooner than later go see someone who can
actually say what’s wrong with you.
College is too short to be.sick,a1l the time.

It’s starting to dawn OIT me that college is terrible
for students’ health. Honestly, we shouldn’t
even be allowed to go....the lifestyle is very un-
healthy at times: too much drinking, not enough
sleep, too much stress. Multiply by 100 to ac-
count for Washington & Lee’s special stresses...

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING -TUM PHI.

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

®PY EDITORS

ERIN ELIZABETH JUUUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

ﬂrelihg-a:nPhisptbisl1edMmdaysdrri1gtteuxiergadatesd'ndyear
atWashhgtmandl.eeUriversity,Le)<hgkx1,\ﬁrg'i'a
TheRng-tun‘ PhﬁsarnenberotThePtbicanons‘ Boardbutisotherwse‘ '


Alsibrrsiorsmustbeemaiedtopl1i@vvlu.eduorirrﬂ'eUriversityCa*IternIal)oxby5p.m.
Fn'daytoappearintheIollc¢vhgvveek’sedtion.
ﬂvliﬁrg-alnﬂiresewesﬂerigwttoedtsttxrissiasbroaitemarrdlmglw.
Leﬂesmdodum1sdonamoessariyreﬂedteq3hbndﬂwFﬁyamPﬁEdkxhlBowd.
Adverﬁsingdoesrx1reﬂedmeophimsofTlieh'rg-alnﬂiorilsstaﬁ.
Thisnewspaperobsewesamentootmdefniﬁmsoflrelandotasoerity.

'I'heFhg-lunF'h'
Un'vetsityCorrrntx‘sFloo'n.341
WashhgtonandLeeLln'verslty

Lex'ngton,Vrrg1'a24450
Telephone: (540)458-4060
Fa)c(540)4584059

' Bnatpti@Mred.:

Procrastination as
deadlines loom, two
Phi writers weigh in
on puttingthings off

BySaaDuckworI1
F1.E=i[1.0<E

As exams near I find it
helpful to think about all the things you
could possibly do to keep from
studying. That’s right I’m talking the
big P, now don’t let your dirty mind go
there, procrastination. The amazing
little word that incorporates the things
that seem important at the time, but in
actuality keep you from doing what
would be more academically correct.

My apartment is currently as
clean as it ever has been. Write a paper
or scrub the kitchen? Once the
procrastination move has been decided
upon it must be rationalized in order
to strikeout guilt. The rationalization
for cleaning would be something like:
I cook in that kitchen and if it isn’t
clean then I could get sick, which in
the future will really keep me from
writing that paper. Checking one’s e-
mail always seems to be at the utmost
importance when there is a word
document with a grand total of a
paragraph on it. I mean there may be
an incredibly important message that
has to be replied to right away. Laundry
is always a fair option when trying to
keep from that biology textbook. See
if you don’t have the proper clothing,
which are of course at the bottom of
the hamper, then you could not possibly
do as well on that test. It’s yoirr lucky
sweater, or what not. Watching the
news or reading the newspaper always
seems to be a legitimate excuse to see
if that nasty paper actually ends up
writing itself. While you maybe up
until 4am it always seems to be a good
idea to be caught up on the world
outside of Big Lex, even if you do only
read the Extra Sectionl Travel and
Leisure. When researching it can seem
extremely important to read other
chapters in the book, because you need
a better feel for what the author is trying
to say. If the book is an anthology and

the chapter is on a completely different
subject than the one you are actually
researching this can be a little trickier.
Of course trying to justify the reason
for doing the procrastinating act can
always be enough of a time stealer to
be worthwhile.

On another note: How do
people really study with a movie on? I
feel like I may have developed ADD
once starting W&L and honestly can’t
handle having a movie playing in the
background. But don’t worry, I’m
going to keep on trying to see if maybe,
this time, it really will work. All things
considered I have enough distracting
noise coming from the drunk people
on the street below my apartment. My
favorites are the kids that just sit under
my window and sing or the guys you
simply can’t scream enough F—Yous
and try to get in a ﬁght. Oh yeah, fun
times. These ladies and gentlemen
have managed to find the prime
procrastination tool: getting drunk
enough to simply not care that there is
work due.tomorrow morning at llam.
It’s always a comfort to know that even
if I’m going to be up obscenely late, at
least I’ll hand in that paper without a
hangover.

Even the best students I lmow
have some sort of distraction, which
lets me rationalize with ‘if they can do
it and still be Phi Beta Kappa, thenl
can do it too’. Speaking of, The MCATS
are quickly coming "arid tireselcids need‘
a shout out like wow. I mean anyone
who takes those danm 8 hour practice
tests and actually wants to go to
medical school should get mad props.
Jess, Shane, Rae, Matt, ‘Katie, and the
rest of you are going to do great! Hey
you made it a lot farther than I did.

Alright, enough of my
rambling, as I actually do have to go
write a paper now. I wish you all a safe
and semi-productive exam week.
Shoot me an e-mail if you get bored,
as I will mostly be checking it on a
ﬁfteen minute basis.

Ship1ey’s procrastination
motivated by fear, sleep

Bycmbmstﬂdey

NT}-EH36

I don’t know why Iprocrastinate,
Ireally don’t. Things are so much easier
when Ijust sit down and get my
homework done right after its assigned.
I don’t want to procrastinate and
certainly don’t take pride in it. I’m
usually pretty good about getting things
done on a reasonable time scale. I get
rough drafts of essays done a day or
two before the ﬁnal draft is due so I
have plenty of time to meet with my
professor and get any editing done.

I try to get projects done a little
early and read ahead in class, but
nonetheless I always end up
procrastinating on something. There
are so many reasons why I shouldn’t
procrastinate, so why do.I?

1)Fear, pure fear. I know that the
12 page paper is going to be hard to
write and I know that once I start
writing it, I’m going to realize exactly
how much time its going to take and
exactly how hard its going to be.

But if I don’t start it yet, I don’t
really have to think about it or worry
about it for a while.

2)Apathy. Do I really care about
some random information? Probably
not, so why read it? I especially have
this problem in classes that are general
requirements. In classes for my major
or in the electives that I get to pick, the
reading is usually interesting enough
for me to actually want to read it.

But occasionally you get those
text books that just put you to sleep.
You know that reading will help you,
but why not just get the information
from the lectures?

3)Time. There are always those
weeks where there is just too much to
do and not enough time. You have to
put off reading or little assignments just
to make sure that there is enough time
to get the essays written and tests
studied for. After all the big
assignments are done, it’s a race against
the clock to do the little ones.

4)S1eep. Ok, so maybe this
doesn’t happen too often, but it still
does occasionally.

Sometimes your working your
way through a huge stack of reading
and its really early and you know that
if you went to sleep right then, you’d
get about four hours before you have
to get up. _

While this may not be a lot, you
realize that you just spent the last 45
minutes reading the same paragraph
over and over again and still have no
idea what you said. This is the only case
that I can think of where
procrastination actually becomes
productive.

Sometimes getting a little sleep
then waking up early to ﬁnish working
can be just what you need to get things
done. .

5)This one is probably
responsible for most of the
procrastinating that every happens and
is best explained by the Demotivator
poster which reads “Procrastination:
Hard work often pays off after time,
but laziness pays off now.” lhave
plenty of distractions around here.

Why would I work when I can
be looking at the Facebook, watching
tv, or playing the guitar. When all these
fun things are calling my name, why
work now when I can put it off until
later?

 

 

- -- -—.»r..-.-. 7*“."‘."‘ "' “ '~-.'~

.. .._ _ . ..... .vm;..~.r¢« .-..a“,,,.,t,-V,_._“.,,...,,-‘,y—.g_-ups»-..»...—.-u -var.-w-.-=nu~r.«rsn~.v-—.....-vvrn .—~.--.-rm -....—.,. »‘,«....»...- ...-. .. ..

"'V"V —.—.... W... ,. .,,¢«»w..

6 OTHERNG-TUMPH

 

word

 

f\

This week’sInpic:
Whyyou’rereadyfor
Spn'ng Term

ITwo'words —- Professor Mahon.

-Why I’m looking forward to Spring:
More opportunities for the Trident to
steal features such as Ups and Downs
from the Phi.

-The Masters, Destin, and I’ll be in
England, on ly for the week though,

Buffalo Creek...awesome...Tubing in
Goshen.

IGirls in skirts.

-Why is the dig taking place on the
Colonnade this year?

IEaster is the best day of the year
EVER!

-Thank you Board of Trustees for siding
with Burish and saving Spring Term.

 

-I’ll need to recover from
overexposure to Euro trash.

-Panic is playing a 4/20 show in
Salem. I wonder if tickets are still
available? '

-Weekend trips!

-Because I have canoeing with
Elizabeth Robinson.

-I’m sick of being shot down by
Austrian ski instructors.

-Let’s see. I won’t be writing any
25 page research papers in the Spring
Term. '

-I’m looking forward to three
weeks off from writing all these
Quick Hits.

NextIime’stopic:
Spring Break2005
stories

Marshall tel s
what gives him
the warm fuzzies

Bymashalnule
FOTATOMON

Some things in life give you a warm
fuzzy feeling, while other things make you
feel gross/disgusting/poor/ignorant/
smelly/etc, etc, etc. I have compiled a list
to differentiate between the good feelings
and the bad feelings.

- Things that give you a warm fuzzy
feeling — Getting into an elevator and
noticing that it has been serviced recently.

Things that don’t — Getting into a
full elevator and smelling something
terrible... then realizing it was you.

Things that give me a warm fuzzy
feeling — Waking up in the middle of the
night fully expecting it tobe 9:00, realizing
it is only 4:00 and that you have 5 more
hours of sleep.

Things that don’t — Waking up nine
minutes before your class is supposed to
start. Deciding to just slap the class you
roll over to see a girl that slightly resembles
Michael Moore. Choosing the less
awkward event, you run to class just to
avoid being there when she wakes up.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Getting a
check in the mail from a relative for some
ridiculous holiday.

Bad feeling ~— Overdrawing on your
account because you are expecting a big
check to come, but the birthday card is
empty, forcing you to pay the 50 dollar
overdraw charge with money you still
don’t have.

Warm fuzzy feeling —— Getting all
you work done a few days before it is due.

Bad feeling — Getting your work
done two weeks after it is due.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Watching
Duke lose and Kentucky win.

Bad feeling ~ Knowing that your
bracket is so FUBAR that you won’t come
close to getting your money back.

Warm fuzzy feeling - Having a class
cancelled for no reason

Bad feeling — Having an additional
class thrown in on the last week... and a
speaker... and a paper.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Knowing that

you are going home in two weeks.
Bad feeling — Knowing that
grades are coming home with you.
Warm fuzzy feeling — Finding
Saved by the Bell on TV in the middle
of the day.
Bad feeling — It turns out to be
Saved by the Bell College Years.
Warm fuzzy feeling — Getting

into the spring term classes you want. ‘
Bad feeling — Forgetting to’

register on time and having to take a
class on feminism. A

Warm fuzzy feeling — Showering
while smoking a cigarette.

Bad feeling — Running out of

soap and shampoo in the shower, and ,

forgetting to get some at Walmart, so
instead you wash with shaving cream
and toothpaste.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Looking
in your backpack and knowing that you
came to class prepared with a pen and
paper to take notes.

Bad feeling — Having to take
notes with a piece of construction paper
and a crayon (don’t ask why I have
crayons in my backpack and not a pen).

Warm fuzzy feeling —- As a
freshmen you are done with pledgeship

. Bad feeling — As an
upperclassman, pledgeship is done.

Warm Fuzzy feeling — Figuring
out your major.

Bad feeling —~ Having your
academic advisor tell you that you are
not smart enough to major in that ﬁeld

Warm fuzzy feeling — Going
home for spring break to your old bed.

Bad feeling — Finding out that
your old room is now the new den and
you have to sleep on the couch.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Having
clean underwear and socks that match

Bad feeling — Having to wear
one dress sock and one ankle sock, and
then realizing you are out of clean
underwear so you have to go
commando until you go to Walmart to
buy new underwear rather than washing
your dirty pairs (side note: you forget
to pick up soap and shampoo while at
Walmart).

Shaq, MTV. Simpson anger Trout

aynughnout

TPEFG-BIMN

In his inﬁnite wisdom, basketball
superstar Shaquille O’Neal has realized
that because eventually his NBA days will
end, he must pursue higher education. But
beyond just taking random classes at the
University of Phoenix Online, Shaq has
found a passion for criminal justice. He
even sees a future career in it: “I want to
go to the Police Academy. I want to
actually go out and make a couple of
arrests and I want to go undercover.” I
did not make that up, those are his words.

Now, please take ample time to
appreciate that Shaq is honestly expecting
to become an UNDERCOVER police
officer. It’s one of those things that gets
funnier the more you think about it. I
mean, how dumb are you going to feel
when you be busted by an undercover
Shaquille O’Neal? That’s punishment
enough in my mind, regardless of the
crime. I also would like to point out that
Shaq has clearly surrounded himself with
such kiss—ass friends that none of them
have had the heart/balls to explain to him
why a 7’1” basketball super-star isn’t
exactly undercover police ofﬁcer material.
But all this brings me to the subject of this
week’s a.r1icle: really dumb ideas.

There are a bunch of little ones: Fox
getting rid of Family Guy (only to crawl
back), the XFL, and Ashlee Simpson (not
any particular career move, but her as a
person was just a really bad idea in
general). Then there are those amazingly
huge disasters that everyone loves to watch
and talk about: Michael Jackson since
Thriller. First of all, let me make my
Michael Jackson position clear: When I

hear about the Michael Jackson
controversy, I think of the gross lack of
play-time he gets at W&L frat parties,
especially those which are 80s themed.
Claiming to enjoy 80s music and not
listening to Michael Jackson makes as
much sense as saying you’re a Vince
Vauglm fan and haven’t seen Swingers or
Made. For those ladies out there who
haven’t had the pleasure to witness first
hand, I am able to do all the dance moves
from every music video of the Thriller
album. And if you give me a few hours, I
can dig around my dorm room and find
my shiny g1ove...and. yes, it’s
monogrammed. My favorite song would
have to be, “The way you make me feel.”
Does it make me feel a little awkward
looking back and realizing that the song
is probably written about a little boy? Yes,
of coarse it does, but I over come that
uncomfortable thought through the
busting of my sweet moves and a drink or
six.

But "that’s just how I roll, son.
Despitemy admiration for the king of pop,
I will admit he isn’t exactly doing his fans
a lot of favors with his behavior. It sort of
sucks being an MJ fan because he made
the album which was the “no matter what
happens with him after this he will always
be cool” CD, and then has proceeded to
test to see if that was really true.

But then again, I think the media
has given him some unfair coverage; I
know a fair number of people who have
switched skin-color, had tons of plastic
surgery and picked up a nasty coke habit
to go along with sick sexual addictions.
Ok, that was an HV...I don’t know
anybody like that, but I still think
understanding is called for.

In all this talk of sex crimes and

criminal behavior people lose track of T

what is really important in the situation:
he is Michael Jackson and we’re not. He
made Thriller, we didn’t. As far as I’m
concerned, the man should be excused
from all taxes and most felonies. The man
is a hero...sort of. I also want people to
stop giving him crap for his animals,
because I don’t care who you are or what
your reasons, anyone who was ever 8 years
old has dreamed of owning his own
monkey. Just cause Michael Jackson
followed through on it doesn’t make him
strange...it just means he has dedication.

But even more amazingly bad than _ .

everything Michael Jackson has done
since Thriller has got to be who ever
decided that MTV should just stop playing
music videos. I don’t want to watch a
bunch of neurotic kids get drunk and have
ﬁghts/sex. . .I live in Graharn-Lees (I’m not
excusing myself, either). I also really don’t
want to see whatever new way MTV has
managed to turn dating into some sort of
sport in which rejection and pain is even
more dramatized. That’s just cruel. I have
come to the sad realization that I receive
more comedic entertainment from Fitness
Made Simple ads featuring John Basedow
than anything on MTV (rumors are ﬂying
that he died in the Tsunami, so if you know
anything please e-mail me or the Phi cause
I want to know for sure). Well, that’s all
for this week, and I hope everyone had an
amazing Eater Egg hunt and that exams
go well. Finally, if things are going Bad,

just remember that when it comes to _ « '

studying, Don't Stop ‘till You Get Enough

because it don’t matter if you’re Black or

White, if your goal for a test is to Beat It,
you need to start with The Man in the
Mirror because even a Smooth Criminal
can’t wing it.

Succumb to the magnetism of facebook

ByBIeeMa|lun
Bela

Facebook. You know about it,
even if you aren’t on it, and don’t worry
eventually you will succumb to its
magnetism. And when you do, you’ll
know how to make your facebook profile
perfect, reﬂecting your utter coolness.
Well, at least that’s what you want people
to think. .-
So is your proﬁle dominant?

"What are the hidden messages it’s relaying

to the rest of the world? Let’s break it
down. First off, how many friends do you
have? If it’s less than a hundred, that is a
poor showing. This is a small school
people, you should have a hundred friends
— you’ve at least had class with as many.
Who are your friends? I hope you’re not
saying that they're all your sorority sisters.
You should have at least a few friends
from every sorority, fraternity, and
independents. We’re trying to promote
interfraternity love here. Plus this shows
the profile viewer that you don’t hate and
that you’re friendly and open to
relationships with all types. What about
your friends at other schools? Well, I

should hope that you have a good .

representation from the Ivies. I mean,
we’re nerdy, the friends we hung out with
in high school were nerdy, we just

' happened to come to W&L and gained a

million cool points just by the sheer
awesomeness that is — was our school.
Maybe you have a lot of friends from other
schools, maybe not so much, but this is
really contingent on whether you went to
a public or private school. It may be that
you just have a smaller pool from which
you can draw friends. I, on the other hand,
graduated with 450 others and was in the
unique position to know a good many of
them. Most of them went to JMU, the
people I like went to Tech.

Now, let’s look at your picture.
Is it posed? You mid crazy caper? With
friends, by yourself? Something random
and hilarious? You want the picture to
reﬂect your personality. And that may
mean that you want to draw out a laugh
from the viewers of your profile. It may

' mean that you want your boyfriend or your

particularly hot friend in the picture. Now
ladies, there is a double standard here that
you have to watch out for. You may want
to have your boyfriend in the picture, and
while that is sweet on a boy’s profile, on
the girl’s, it is not always so cute. You

don’t want the picture to look like you’re
putting your boyfriend on display for
approval. Being an independent, strong
woman with an identity separate from her
boytoy is very acceptable and highly
encouraged.

What next? How about the
information you actually provide the
profile viewer? What major did you list?
I hope it’s your actual one because I can
hardly believe so many boys are truly
hoping to graduate with a degree in
women studies. Iknow you thought it was
cute because you like to “study women”
but really, it just looks silly. I wish as much
as the next person that sociology meant
studying the social scene. I'm graduating
magnum cum laude in that! What about
your contact info? You should include the
information that will help people to locate
and or contact you. Cell phone, screen
name, e-mail address, house address, you
know, the essentials. But don’t feel the
need to include the address to which you
return in the summer. That’s a little bit of
an over-share and just gives the creepy
facebook stalkers an easy in.

Now the extended information
section is where you get to be really
creative. This next section is very telling,
so be honest with yourself. Do you really
want a relationship? Probably not. That
is why it is perfectly acceptable to put that
all you’re looking for is random play —— it
prevents people from getting their hopes
up. It’s also fun to be in a relationship
with a close friend, but make sure you
deﬁne it. Open relationship means that
the two partners are allowed to hook up
with other people and not get jealous or
hurt. Relationship and marriage, well
you’re set. You’re not allowed to fool
around, so just be careful.

What about your favorites? Please
do not list every book.you’ve ever read,
every band you’ve ever listened to, every
movie you’ve ever watched, every quote
you’ve ever heard. That’s ridiculous, no
one will read that. It makes your proﬁle
unnecessarily long and you want people
to read your proﬁle and learn about you.
So give us a sample of your favorite things,
or a genre. Ifyou look at my proﬁle, you’ll
notice my favorite movies are funny
movies, movies that make you think, and
stoner ﬂicks. Go ﬁgure, but it deﬁnitely
reﬂects my personality.

Clubs and jobs and interests. I
hope you’ve at least listed something
clever, and I hope you’re involved.
There’s no excuse for people being

uninvolved on this campus. Granted I’m ' ' 7 '

a cheerleader and school spirit is my job,
but really people, let’s have a little bit of
pride. If you’re in a facebook group,
you’ve got some kind of interest. Which
brings us to groups: be in them, they’re
fun. They also tell a lot about you. How
many groups are you in and what is their
nature? How many of them did you make
yourself? Again, be honest with yourself.
If you are a group-joining whore,
announce that by joining that group. That
way you tell people that you do recognize
you have a problem, and you don’t want
to do anything about it. But really, don’t
go crazy. I’ve seen profiles where the little
box doesn’t hold all the groups the person
is in. That’s out of control, y’all.

Courses, list them. Again with . : _
the contact info, the facebook is a tool to '

be used to locate and learn about a person.
Plus it’s nice to know who’s in your
classes, or ﬁgure out who the cute boy in

the third row of your chemistry class is ‘ V '

and give you a reason to friend him! And
your electives will also reveal where some
of your other interests lie. Then there’s
the wall. Has anyone posted on your wall?
What has been said? If you want people
to post on your wall, post on theirs.
They’ll appreciate it and both of you will

look cooler. However, there are those ‘

among us who are just that awesome that
they solicit postings simply by existing and
doing how they do. We all wish we could
be those people, but unfortunately we
can’t.

So to wrap up, let’s review. The
way to pull off looking suave and to state
your amazingness without actually saying
it through the facebook profile:

1. Keep it relatively short. Say
what you need to say, but be concise.

2. Be honest. W&L put the honor . ‘

code in place and we should live by it in
all aspects of our lives.

3. But be funny and clever. No one
likes a boring profile.

4. Make sure everything reﬂects I

something about you. The picture, where
you live, the groups you’re in. Tlhere are
ways of saying things without saying them.
Understating is crucial.

5. Be diverse in , your friends.
That’s the ultimate way to say you’re cool.

When you are liked by people in all walks ; I ‘V I

of life, you have truly achieved awesome.

This says to the facebook viewer, “This . '

person is chill. People like to hang out
with her and she doesn’t hate.” So y’all
don’t hate.

V.’

f'~";:

'-(Ir,

D

U'v..i
coU'!°Q
“ESL:

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING=TUM PHI.

MG4DAY,APFI..25,ZX5

BY THE STUDENTS AND

FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

t V,’ J, I
VOLI.MECVI,M.lVBEB26”

WHAT’S INSIDE

Honor in a hypothetical sense
What is honor these days, and how
do we appropriately rule on situations
where honor is questioned? We want
your feedback to tell us how W&L
should interpret honor by ruling on
our hypothetical case.

Page3

Ladies’ tennis swings on
Women’s tennis is doing
unbelievably well! Catch up on the
details of how all six singles players
made it to the ﬁnals.

Page2 A
HOT TICKET

Nice dreams of ice cream
Incurable sweet tooth? The
Commons and Campus Activities
understand. That’s why they’re
providing your with six fabulous
ﬂavors of free ice cream on the patio
of Cafe 77 on Wed. April 27 from 3-
5 p.m. I’m sure we’H see you there.

Kick up your heels for charity
You could have danced all night at
the last one, so show up again for
another memorable night! On Sat.
April 30, come donate to cystic
ﬁbrosis as you dance like crazy in
Evans Hall. Starts at 8 p.m. and ends,
like every good ball, at midnight.

Very long subtitles

War, drama, comedy, romance, and
french subtitles. The makers of
“Amelie” bring you all this and more
in their moving ﬁlm “A Very Long
Engagement,” which will run in the
Commons theater at 7:30 p.m. on Fri.
April 29 and Sat. April 30.

  

Aiming higher
Samuel L. Jackson plays a coach who
had higher goals for his undefeated
team in the movie “Coach Carter,”
which will run in the Commons
theater

SIMPLE LIFE

Believe itornot, keep warm!
Spring terrn’s here, and you’re
supposed to be out on the colonnade
every day with friends getting a nice
tan. You dropped off your warm
woolly clothes at home over the
break and devoted yourself to those
easy, breezy shorts, skirts, and polo
shirts. But who would have guessed
that a twist of fate would bring
random snow ﬂurries and chilly
winds? Follow our tips and stay
comfortably warm even when those
unexpected cold fronts decide to drop
in.

I Don’t forget about your socks
and closed—toed shoes. Hopefully you
haven’t completely abandoned
yourself to the ﬂip-ﬂops, but there’s
nothing worse than your toes facing
the cold, even if for your favorite
Reefs.

I Never forget: Daily Grind and
Lexington Coffee Shop are still at
your disposal. Go for a latte or a hot
cocoa as much as you can.

I Layers, layers, and more layers!
These days, it’s perfectly acceptable
to layer camisoles, t-shirts, etc. So
take advantage of the times and
throw on a button—down, something
light under it, and a spring jacket. .

I As a last resort, burn your
books for warmth. You won’t need
them anyway. It is spring term.

QUICK POLL

Q: DoesW&L drinktoo much?

 

53 students polled. 26 male. 27 female. Poll has 90% confidence
in a +/~ 5% margin of error.

 

W&L hosts NCUR

Thousands of students visit Lexington

By Chris Lauderman
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

2,200 undergraduate students from
across the country invaded Lexington
April 21-23 for the 19"‘ National
Conference on Undergraduate Research
(NCUR).

Washington and Lee and Virginia
Military Institute co—hosted the national
weekend conference. The two schools
began the planning process of hosting the
conference a few years ago.

“I went to a meeting at the
University of Utah, along with VMI Dean
of the Faculty Brower to present a proposal
for us to host the conference,” Provost
Tom Williams said. “The NCUR
Governing Board accepted our proposal a
bit over two years ago.”

A unique twist to the conference this
year was the joint sponsoring by VMI and
W&L. Two different cultures, a public and
a private school, “came together and got
the job done,” according to Tim Kolly,
Vice President for Public Affairs and
Communication.

Both W&L and VMI’s public
relations ofﬁces said it was an excellent
experience working together.

“This is a great resume piece for
both schools,” Kolly said.

Students participating in NCUR
made oral presentations, presented posters,
and performed for peers. Oral

presentations lasted for 15 minutes and
generally had 10-15 people in the
audience. Washington andLee showcased '

. STEPPING UP TO THE CHALLENGE

35 presenters at this year’s conference.

Lain Wilson, a freshman at W&L,
was encouraged by one of his history
professors to present a European history
paper.

“It was a senior project in high
school,” Wilson said. “I spent six months
researching and two months writing it.”

All students presenting had the
option to submit their work to be published
through NCUR. Students will find out
later in the year if they have been selected
for publication.

Other students, such as senior Ricky
Busby, presented their thesis. Busby, a
Medieval and Renaissance Studies major,
presented Friday afternoon on “Franciscan

I Art as Propaganda.”

Sophomore Julie Jackson said that
this was a great opportunity for
undergraduates to present academic
research.

“I met a lot of Geology students and
professors from other schools,” Jackson
said. “It was really fun.”

Andrew Upshaw, a junior at VMI,
presented on the Madrid terrorist attacks.
He thought his presentation went well
despite the fact that he was really nervous
with all of the professors from around the
country listening to his presentation.

Kolly was pleased with the
involvement of the W&L community
saying that “everyone has come together.”
Many of the faculty was involved in
moderating panels and students took
interest in the conference.

PHOTOS COURTESY MARGO MCCLINTON

The Beta Beta Nu chapterof Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity and theTau Omega
chapterofDeltaSigmaTheta Sorority presented a probateshow lastweekto
welcomethesetwo new Greek organizations tothe W&L community.

 

Fratemitylsorority

’Gre,ekZ.men_’s'total

1- -I-<a?PM'PhéT*1eta:'I

   

I3 appa Kappa Gamma

 

5.jKappa Detta

         

tndependem ‘women's ‘rota:

     

.rtri‘.w¢metifs'_t_oiai ’ _ -

     

 
  

 

. 3.449

   

3.419

3.306

I 3:223’

Lang; a car Alpha: 3.233‘

  And the rankings are in!
Chart below shows fall, winter and combined GPA ’s

Fall GPA Winter GPA Con'binedGPA

-329987. *

3.19936, 1

3.1 5592

3.09730

. 3.172 3.19669 I

3.41 - 3.42678

  

 

3.319.

 

3.36440

3.267 I

   
  
  

3.28463

" 3.336" ' 3.26031

= 3.325561

; "K3993: Attibtii 3’hetaé_‘5"¢?ea$9" of 0.20.8

Highest overall.-GPA‘:fori. pledge ctass

 

Pi‘B.eta ‘Phi: 65%’(29 go; of st)-_.;

Statistics courtesy of the oﬁice of the dean of students.

Wor1d’s fastest climber visits W&L

Contact, Outing Club sponsored motivational speaker Hans Florine Tuesday

ByAlex Kraus
STAFF WRITER

World-renowned speed climber
Hans Florine said that the cliff face where
he experienced one of the greatest
disappointments of his life was the same
place where he experienced his greatest
triumph.

The motivational speaker,
sponsored by Washington and Lee’s
Outing Club and CONTACT, had been
suggested as a possible speaker by Outing
Club advisor James Dick.

Florine set the speed record for
climbing El Capitan at Yosemite National
Park in September 2002, clocking in at 3
hours 24 minutes together with Japanese
climber Yuji Hirayarna.

“This is my back yard. I am very,
very lucky,” Florine said of Yosemite in
'I1iesday’s speech.

“We thought he was a unique
speaker, and we thought attendance would
be good,” said CONTACT member David
Kronenfeld.

Florine spoke to a nearly—full
Commons theater, “We were pleased with
attendance, he was one of the less
expensive speakers so it’s always good

 

-HANSFLOFIE

It can look pretty daunting from the
bottom, but the view is beautiful
from the top. It’s all worth it.

when people attend those...and lots of
people stayed afterwards to talk to him”
Kronenfeld said.

Florine first tried to climb El
Capitan in 1988. He only made it a fraction
of the way up the face before he used up
half of his water and food supplies.
Realizing he wouldn’t make it all the way,
he said he had to turn back “with my tail
between my legs.”

“If you had told me in 1988 that you
could climb El Capitan in a day, I would
have said you were crazy,” he said.

But Florine said it was his personal
goal to climb both El Capitan and nearby

_Half Dome in one day in 1999 that brought

him both disappointment and his greatest
feeling of personal reward.

Florine heard through friends that a
fellow speed climber, Dean Potter, was
planning to be the first person to climb

e

both mountains in a day. Florine resolved
to beat Potter to the challenge, though he
knew it would not be an easy task. Florine
set a date and began telling friends of his
plans in order to raise his own conﬁdence.

“I had never soloed Half Dome
before. When I practiced it, it took me
seven hours,” said Florine, who considers
“the nose” of El Capitan to be his favorite
path.

Florine set out at 3:24 a.m. on July
28, 1999, to begin climbing Half Dome.
He reached the top six andla half hours
later.

When he reached the valley again,
he met up with a friend, Steve Schneider,
who delivered a devastating piece of news.
Florine’s plans had passed by word-of-
mouth to Potter, provoking him to
complete the two climbs only a day before.
By the time Florine reached the base of El

Capitan, he was so disappointed that he
wasn’t sure whether it was worth it to go
on.

“I just started climbing. I didn’t
know what else to do,” he admitted. “I
thought, ‘I carmot be climbing with all this
negative stuff in my head.”’

Florine said he only got his
motivation back when he realized that
Potter’s sequence was different from his
own. Potter climbed El Capitan first, then
Half Dome. Florine realized he would still
be the ﬁrst person to climb Half Dome,
then El Capitan.

One photo published in a rock
climbing magazine showed an exhausted
but smiling Florine successfully reaching
the peak of El Capitan.

“This photo captures the most
rewarded I’ve ever felt in my life,” he said.

Florine summarized his experiences
by saying that pursuing your goals even
when you feel disappointed or frustrated
can lead to the greatest satisfaction.

He said, “It can look pretty daunting
from the bottom, but the view is beautiful
from the top. It’s all worth it.”

The day after his speck, Florine held
a climbing seminar out at Goshen for
interested students.

 

 

 
 

 
   
 

   

  

ai$IME‘5 ii.  Llticf.

VASSHJNGTON 8:  Uiéihﬁﬁﬁfﬂ’

Lz7,».:~.s«7;rmr, 1‘/A gzeam

' 2 - THERING-Tlfmliﬁ-Ill 5 2W5

3110

rts

 

|VUl)AY.APm§,ZI5

THIS WEEK

TUESDAY,APRI.26
-Men’s LAX at ODAC’s TBA
-Baseball vs Blueﬁeld 3:00

WEDI\ESDAY,APFl27
-Baseball vs WV Tech 3:00

sA1URDAY,APRI.3o
-Baseball vs SMCM 1:00

SlNDAY,APRI.31
-Baseball at Mary Washington
-Men’s LAX at ODAC’s TBA

SPORTS BRIEFS

W&LWomen’sLacrosseDefeaIs
SweetBriar,8-8, in ODACSemis
(4/23)

Top-seeded Washington and Lee
received three goals from sophomore
attacker Kelly Evans and two goals
and one assist from junior attacker
Amanda Strickler in defeating ﬁfth-
seeded Sweet Briar, 8-3, in the
semiﬁnals of the ODAC Women’s
Lacrosse Tournament on Saturday
afternoon at Watt Field.

W&L Baseball DopsaPairof
Gemes'n0DACTounanert(4l23)
The ﬁfth-seeded Washington and Lee
baseball team dropped pair of games
in the ODAC Tournament on Saturday
at Salem Memorial Stadium in Salem,
Va. The Generals fell to sixth—seeded
Hampden-Sydney, 7-2, before losing
to second-seeded Lynchburg, 8-6.

W&LGolfSits in Third Plaoeat
ODACCharpionsh'ps

The Washington and Lee golf team
shot an opening round 316 and resides
in third place at the ODAC Golf
Championships held at the Olde Mill
Resort in Olde Forks, Va. The
Generals trail leader Randolph-Macon
by ﬁve strokes and are being led by
freshman Nathaniel James , who is
tied for ﬁfth with a 77. Freshman
Steven Spivey is eighth with a 78.
Final round action continues on
Sunday.

W&L Riding Finishesseoondat
ODACCharpionsh'ps(4/22)

The Washington and Lee riding team
finished second out of ﬁve teams at

the 2005 ODAC Championships held
at Hollins University on Friday
afternoon. Randolph-Macon Women’s
College won with 19 points and was
followed by W&L (17), Hollins (10),
Bridgewater (10) and Lynchburg (7).

Men’sLacrosse|ostto15th ranked
I-lanpdenwdne-yonSaturday10-5

W&LGolfWIns Buck Leslie
lnvitational(4l19)

The Washington and Lee golf team
shot a 301-301-602 to win the ﬁfth
annual Buck Leslie Invitational held
at the Lexington Golf & Country
Club. Individually, the Generals were
paced by senior Ged Johnson (Darien,
Conn./T aft School), who shot a 71-
75—146 to ﬁnish second overall.

WRF|'E SPORTS
FOR THE PHI

Emalhu/ep@M/Iueotl

 

OFF TO THE CHAMPIONSHIP

Jon Rogers I Staff Photographer

The|adyGeneral’s|acrosseteamadvanoedin
Briaonsaturdayin Lexington. Sophomore|ocalKe||yEvans|edtl1eGenera|s
wiﬂ13goalsim|udingMointI'|eﬁrsthaH.ArrandaShiderandKﬂstenBmwn
eachnotehedtalliedtwogoalsofiheirovvn. &MeetBriarwasonlyab|e1aosoore
Mogoalsmanksmstellardefensebdbygoaliesamhﬁlbormnhadﬁvesaves.
Wm1ﬂ1ewinovei'ﬂ1eﬁtu1seededVmerIsthetopseededGenemlswereabbto
moveontofavetheﬂ1ird-seededYe||owJacketsofRandoIph-Nlaoon.

Ladies’ Tennis ro ls
into ODAC Finals

Byxamynxralwrsponsneiease
STAFFWFITER

On Saturday, the third-ranked
Washington and Lee women’s tennis team
dominated the ODAC Championship
playoffs at Hollins University for the
second day in a row.

All six singles players advanced to
the finals by defeating their players by
large margins. No W&L player dropped
more than two wins en route to her victory.
Senior Lindsay Hagerman again defended
her top spot by easily downing her
opponent.

Kristen McClung, Emily Applegate,
Ginny Wortham, Katie Kingsbury, and
Leah Weston all won their semifinal
matches and advanced to the
championship match in their ﬂight. In
addition, the team had all three doubles
teams advance to the semiﬁnals, which
will be played on Sunday.

At No. 1 singles, Hagerman
defeated Kayla Carter of Emory & Henry,
6-0, 6-2, and will play Elizabeth Kristofak
of Randolph-Macon in the ﬁnals.

At No. 2 singles, McClung knocked
off Melissa James of Hollins, 6-2, 6-0, and
will take on Trista McGlotl1lin of Emory
& Henry for the title.

Applegate beat Guilford’s Songan
Nguyen, 6-0, 6-0, and will meet Hilary
Teeter for the championship at No. 3

singles.

At No. 4 singles, Wortham bested
Avery Latronica of Roanoke, 6-0, 6-2, and
will play Hollins’ Candice Dalton in the
ﬁnals. Weston was a 6-0, 6-0 winner over
Sarah Sullivan at No. 5 singles and will
take on Anne Ryan of Emory & Henry for
the title.

At No. 6 singles, Kingsbury beat
Emory & Henry’s Kate Childress, 6-0, 6-
1, and will face Jessie Bayne of Randolph-
Macon for the championship.

In quarterﬁnals doubles action, the
duo of Hagerman and Wortham knocked
off Kierra McMillian and Lisa Fanney of
Virginia Wesleyan, 8-1, at No. 1 doubles.
At No. 2 doubles, Applegate and McClung
bested the pair of Megan McEwen and
Amy Iden of Randolph-Macon, 8-3, while
Weston and senior Lora Farris posted an
8-3 victory over Lynchburg’s Kathryn
Andrews and Erica Seay at No. 3 doubles.

W&L tennis has always been a
powerhouse in the ODAC conference, and
winning ODAC championships was a goal
the team held since the beginning of the
year. With the entire team playing at their
top form, the team is well on its way to
accomplishing this goal.

The Generals return to the court for
the ﬁnal day of the ODAC Championships
on Sunday when the singles ﬁnals and
doubles semifinals and finals will be

played.

 
  

 Hi
 E:«ae=am=ann«eae£aa.e.=:;eaa

Three General athletes
honored for academics

DySpa1sFblease

Sports Information

Three Washington and Lee athletes
received academic honors in the past
week. Paul McClure and Nathan Johnson
each were named Scholar-athletes of the
year for their respective sports. Lindsey
Hagerman was also honored by being
named one of the six ﬁnalists for the
‘Walter Byers Award.

McClure is a philosophy major who
carries a 3.316 cumulative grade-point
average (GPA). He is currently ranked 25th
in Division HI among singles players and
claims a 14-8 singles record and a 13-8
doubles mark.

McClure is a two-time ODAC
Player of the Year and a three-time First
Team All-ODAC honoree. Last spring, he
earned First Team All-America honors
after advancing to the quarterfinals of the
NCAA Division III Singles
Championship.

Men’s tennis claimed its 10th
straight ODAC Championship over the
weekend. McClure and the Generals now
wait to find out who their opponent will
be in the opening round of the NCAA
Division Ill Tournament which begins on
May 7.

Johnson, a math and economics
major, carries a cumulative grade—point
average of 3.706 and earned First Team
All-ODAC honors at the 2005 ODAC
Indoor Track & Field Championships on
Feb. 27.

Johnson won the 5000 meters at the
ODAC meet in a school-record time of
15 :35 .93. He also ran a school-record time
of 8:37.24 in the 3000 meters at the
Christopher Newport Invitational earlier

this season.

Johnson was also named the 2004
ODAC Cross Country Scholar-athlete and
Runner of the Year. At the ODAC Cross
Country Championships on Oct. 30,
Johnson won the race in a time of28: 16.56
to help lead the Generals to the ODAC
title.

Johnson also won the NCAA South]
Southeast Regional in a time of 26:43.82
to earn all-region accolades and qualify
for the NCAA Championships. At the
NCAA’s, Johnson ﬁnished 83rd out of 215
runners in a personal—best time of
25:48.60.

The Walter Byers Award is one of
the NCAA’s most prestigious awards and
is presented in recognition of outstanding
academic achievement and future success
in postgraduate studies and planned
careers.

The NCAA selects one male and
one female recipient each year and awards
the winners a $21,500 scholarship for
graduate school. The awardee also has the
option of renewing the scholarship for a
second year given that they are in good
academic standing and a full-time student
during the second year of study.

Hagerman is a history major with a
3.677 cumulative GPA. On the tennis
court, she claims a 106-17 (.862) career
singles record and a 101-15 (.871) career
doubles mark, both among the all-time
best records in school history.

A six-time NCAA All-American,
Hagerman has a 26-1 record in singles and
a 19-2 record in doubles this season. She
won the Intercollegiate Tennis Association
Division III National Singles
Championship during the fall and was the
ITA’s National Co-Rookie of the Year in
2002. '

e

 

{Iran ‘i-1i‘:l"..f5<,£:sl'%Z5é¥4é it: t1'91'i*‘.!'z°.i
s§:e€;-‘%=.-;§'ES$ ,
 l_?~ll;;§r!'l"i '§;£:§ §.'i."-9%“
 'ier‘..3'L

  
 

§,~:.:::I%.s:§.s: 
,?i'2?;zr2.

$g;:u.'~e;e’lizing 

u:’,mf}eu;:':§:;:a=2-:i'.ir::s
 Earlastie-ins
5,3333,-at 33-..1t~3i;;;?:2...e;::;;:s1
gvqgegyill‘ 1t:I;al»:§.lism*£.n:1

. tease etréi er é.‘-122,53 -z’;;.=:= £13 rfﬁmi-I "9"-*:¥*i*"‘*-I 9"?"-‘“‘= *‘~'4i»“'.‘iW*" 5‘3“7»s‘3"'
;a_ﬂ£s3ﬁE;.,.§§°f§ wggfgg ,».;;§g§  }r.;3;,§-  ‘:'1£iE‘i¥i?? s‘:":£1l!'tIs‘:?*£.“%"E-'t*i‘::‘z‘;.§§}-"4Z3F'ls’-»'°
,‘;=,-,«'»-='g-=_g_;g‘-;g;:,;,’;&,_gr;3;" ‘gar 3;"-.;_;,’z=z.>z&"' s";é".l:§Zeii"-zEi'?’i5:Z.'»°.f.¥’.

’ s.
"*5-rpiug z::.*::.«;:'.4':',,*:

33.’ 1‘ an

New Opticians Boutique
Extreme Fun!

Oakley
Maui Jim

For all your vision needs come to
203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

540-463-7440

.1'2- 

 

 

Y’

 

 

I MGWZ 

 

'IHERNG-TUMPHl°3

, STAFF EDITORIAL

W&L’s NCUR
enthusiasm low

Though on the front page of this
week’s Phi, Tim Kolly calls NCUR, “a
great resume piece for both schools,”
meaning for both Washington and Lee
and the Virginia Military Institute, we
at The Ring-tum Phi feel that the
University let a great opportimity slip
through its ﬁngers.

Though the Conference was
well-publicized this past week on
Washington and Lee’s website, students
were less than informed, and thus less
than enthusiastic, about the event.

If the Conference was important
enough for thousands of students to ﬂy
in from across the nation to attend, one
would think that W&L students, being
as smart and capable as they are, would
jump at the chance to present research
at such a prestigious event. And
yet...NCUR people seemed to swirl
around campus and through Lexington
in their own little bubble, separate from
W&L and not interacting much with our
students.

During this academic year, there
was little to no discussion of NCUR in
any of our academic classes. Although
several Washington and Lee students
did present research, and we’re sure

* they were brilliant, what bothers us is

the very blasé attitude most of the
campus took toward the whole event.
We cannot really blame the students,
however, seeing as how there was little
effort made to involve the campus.

Few professors encouraged
students to attend, publicity leading up
to the actual event was fairly sparse, and
no activities including N CUR students
were well-publicized.

We are afraid that NCUR
students from across the country left
Lexington with the ‘idea that W&L
students are a very apathetic breed.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson has
ﬁnished sucking up to his profs to give
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0 AP!“

I wore shorts on Sunday. Shorts, and
then it snowed. SNOWED, and it’s
almost May.

GICUR

Yes, the conference itself was good.
But if I had to think of one thing that
Lexington needed, “more tour buses”
is not at the top of the list.

ONFL Draft

What’s really funny is Maurice Clarett
receiving the mercy of the Denver
Broncos by’ being drafted at the end of
the third round. Poor guy.

0 Hawley-smootTariff

An attempt to isolate the U.S.
economy and thus, it was reasoned,
help it weather the depression, this
tariff, aimed mostly at the agricultural
sector, severely deepended the
economic damage of the depression.

0 New Construction

Hey, as long as we’re building stuff,
can we put a new library up
somewhere? Imean, really.

I 0Mirage

Shut down for serving underage
NCUR attendees. Ouch. I thought
these sort of events were supposed to
HELP local businesses.

0 Pope

Elected very quickly, showing great
conﬁdence from cardinals. But will
this noted conservative be able to
unify Catholics? I

OMass transit

58% more Americans now using
buses, rail, etc. Gas gouging corps,
feel our wrath.

Ocaley Andersonfer‘4)6 rep
Even though I ﬁnished in last place in
the last election I could have possibly
run in, I remain conﬁdent of eventual
victory. '

i ODIIIIOIIS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSl'I'Y

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR

I ‘ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR

ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. UFEEDIIOR

PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITOR

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

COPY EDITORS

V ERIN ELIZABE11-I JULIUS

MARSHALL RULE
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON
ANNE FINLEY
3'-ElIIE.TU‘J
STEVB‘lMAFI&
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN Ll
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA 1'|-IOLKE
V  '
sAnAHM.mAv

ﬂieRi'y-a1nPh”eptbisi1edMa1daysdumgmetmdergraduatescmdyear
atwashington and Lee University, Lexington, Viighia,
7haF?ng-am‘ Pt1isamerrberofThePubk*anons' ' Board,butisoihenMse' hdependent
771eF?hg-amF’Iiwebm1esaI|respa"eb|es.brrIissimsand|ei1ers.
AIsLbrriissior‘smustbe<-:~maiIedtophi@vviu.eduorintheUniversityCentermaiboxby5p.m.
Fridaytoappearinthefollowingvveeksecilion.
ﬂieﬁiig-amPHreseNesmerigtttoedﬂstbrniw'msforaxibmar1dbrigh
LaiersaﬂodumedondreoessariwmﬂedteopinimdﬂnFﬁg-amHiEdbihIB<nid.
Advertisingdoesnotreﬂerztheopinionsoi 'IheFh'ng4umPhi'oritswf.
Thisrrewspaperobseweswnemooundeﬁniﬁortsofibelandobsoaity.

TheFhg4zmF’h'
UriveisityCorrmors Room. 341
Wasi"ngtonandLeeUrIivetsity
Lexhgton, Wg‘nia24450
Telephore: (540)458-4060
Fax (540)458-4059
Ernai:phi@vwu.ec1i
‘ ' rate$40

Sorority sister calls for
Derby Days improvements

In light of the sensitive nature of
this topic, this writer wishes to remain
anonymous. ’

Spring term tends to make me
nostalgic for home and the past. You
remember the most random things: like
Field Day in elementary school. It was
always my favorite week of the year.
Good, clean fun. And I always
dominated against the other little kids
and cherished the blue ribbons which
were offered as proof of my
athleticism. But when I contrast this
memory with the inter—sorority
competition which is Derby Days, I am
left bewildered.

What is Derby Days about
really? In the past I went to it to support
my sorority and didn’t think to analyze
its greater purpose. I just got in my gym
clothes, perhaps a slightly spruced up
version of them, and went. After all, it
was for a good cause, right? A full week
devoted to philanthropy and sisterly
bonding. Now, I’m no longer
convinced.

Let’s look at the facts. A
nationally—recognized philanthropic
event for Sigma Chi, Derby Days
consists of roughly ﬁve days of events.
There is ﬁeld day, two days of powder-
puff football, a skit night, and of course
parties at the pole houses. But as I’m
there, cheering on my friends and
sisters, I look around. Besides the fact
that no one will convince me that this
isn’t just another excuse for students
to be able to drink during the day, I see
the whole picture as generally
degrading.

~ Most men who are around are
standing up on their porches drinking

beer and looking on in amusement as
women in the ﬁve sororities compete
against each other. Drinking is
encouraged by all participants too, of
course. Alittle nastiness tends to ensue.
And even if everyone is completely
civil, you would be hard pressed to
show that sorority relations are
improved or the Greek System
strengthened.

And don’t get me started on
the infamous t-shirts being sold as an
alternative to the sororities’ winning
design. I have yet to see it in person,
perhaps because none of my friends
would ever dream of buying it, but it
apparently depicts one woman
spanking another with a Sigma Chi
paddle. Needless to say, the design was
never approved through the proper
administrative channels. What is the
message being sent? Is it as it appears:
that Derby Days is about sponsoring
female cat fights for the viewing
pleasure of fraternity men?

Please don’t get me wrong.
I think Sigma Chi is a great fraternity
with a lot of stand—up, nice guys. I am
simply left asking myself why they
would agree to host such a ridiculous
and patronizing event. Derby Days at
W&L need to match what is
happening at other campuses across
the nation. It should fulfill a clear,
philanthropic function where all the
participants know what cause they are
supporting and the dollar amount
raised. Alcohol should not be the
focus. And it should bring people
together and strengthen the Greek
System. If not, women should just
stop going.

    

40E PH

 

“I was acting.”

— QUOTEOFTHEWEEK1'hemotharofMchw!

Jaeksorlforhisassistanoebhertarnly.

Jackson’sacwser,resporKIigbavideohvvtietIsheIssea'Ipnishg

NU‘DAY,MARCI-15,215

Anderson reviews W&L strategic plan

ByCdeyAnderson

I!/fIE=iA‘lE'S|VLﬁ\l§

The University’s strategic plan draft
has generated a lot of noise in recent
months. Full of mostly good ideas, there
are a few high-proﬁle proposed initiatives
that are generating the aforementioned
noise.

In a two—part editorial, we’ll look
at the good and the bad of these standout
strategic plan initiatives, while
recognizing that the document is mostly
full of positive innovation. This week, in
true Phi fashion, we start with the bad.

First, and most notoriously, the
proposal to make on-campus, non-Greek
residence for sophomores mandatory.

The strategic plan states (in its
student affairs section) “We propose that
freshmen and sophomores live in carnpus—

based residential learning communities ‘

while upper-class (juniors and seniors)
students live in Greek housing (also
residential learning based programs) and
off campus. Learning Communities could
be developed by theme, including the
sciences, foreign languages,
environmental issues, social justice,
cultural heritage, etc.”

The most commonly-raised
objection is that sophomores are an
integral part of a Greek organization’s
makeup, and that to force sophomores

away from the Greek houses and into
dorms would alter Greek organizations’
dynamics for the worse. On top of that,
though, there are serious logistical
problems.

Presumably, a new (and expensive)
dorm would be built to help accomodate
the entirety of the sophomore class.
Gaines and Woods Creek house a total of
342 people; the typical W&L class is about
425. A new building for the sake of 80 or
so people is not terribly cost-efficient
when considering that the only beneﬁt is
the creation of “learning communities,”
which, while they have their beneﬁts, may
or may not be worth tens of millions of
dollars.

This is not to mention the adverse
effects on juniors and seniors, who would
be faced with the binary choice of either
living in a Greek house or off-campus.
The Greek houses and the off-campus
market are already strained without
stufﬁng ALL of the 850 or so juniors and
seniors into them. For Greek students, the
choice between Greek housing and off-
campus housing would become difﬁcult;
for independents, it would be no choice
at all.

If the University DOES adopt this
option, I would hope it would retain a
guarantee to upperclass students that
housing of SOME sort in Lexington would
be available. Commuting to W&L is not

something I’d ever want to do, but future
classes might have to deal with it if the
Lexington housing market gets too
ridiculous as a result of this idea. (I do
like the idea of organizing halls by
academic interest, though). Of course, the
Capital/Space Planning task force report
mentions the need for a speciﬁcally non-
greek facility, and even looks at the
feasibility of it, so maybe there’s
something we don’t know about in the
works.

Also from the Student Affairs
section is this-

“We recommend that the university
institute freshman seminars and the
following shared experiences: Two one-
credit courses required of freshmen in the
fall and winter terms, similar to the model
of the Physical Education requirement.
These courses would be coordinated by
student—affairs professionals but would
also draw heavily on the physical-
education faculty and academic faculty.
The curriculum should include the
following subjects: Student development,
including time management, study skills,
leadership and governance, the Honor
System, university resources, and career
development. Wellness issues, physical
and mental, including alcohol and drugs,
nutrition, ﬁtness, safety, and depression.
Social issues, including diversity,
loneliness and transitions, and open

discussion about social life on campus
including the role of Greek life at
Washington and Lee before and during
pledgeship.”

In other words, this takes orientation
and turns it into two one-credit classes. It’s
simply not necessary.

Besides increasing the course load
of faculty in a bizarre way (what does a
history doctorate, or an expert on
racquetball have to say about time
management, or the vague concept of
“leadership and governance?."), this
increases student courseloads during the
most difficult terms a student has at W&L
and is redundant with orientation. I can
see no real reason to replace orientation
with two classes.

Though the Strategic Plan cites
research that shows such “freshman
seminars” to improve GPAs, retention, and
faculty-student interaction, these were
never really problems at W&L.

Whatl do like, though, is the idea of
a course on the Honor System. Mandatory
for all freshmen or not, I think that the
Honor System is a much deeper subject
which the brief synopsis during orientation
barely does justice to. If you do a course
on non-academics like “study skills,” I
guarantee you that freshmen will treat it as
a non-class, dropping it to the bottom of
their priority list and focusing instead on
the classes that make serious demands of

them. A course on the Honor System,
though, would be very tangible and very
interesting. It could even have the effect
of decreasing the number of honor
violations. The philosophy faculty could
teach it, with appearences by EC members.

Finally, we have the trident. The
strategic plan’s Communications/Extemal
Relations task force, as part of a stated need
to create a uniﬁed graphic image for the
University, recommends that the trident
symbol be made less ominous and less
swastika—like. I like nearly all of this task
force’s recommendations, but this is not one
of them.

The trident has been a part of the
University for a long time; you can see
pictures in the gym of baseball players at
the turn of the 20th century wearing it. I
don’t think it looks particularly swastika-

like, although I grant that it looks sort of A

ominous. I like that about it, though. It
looks mysterious, certainly, and I think it’s
rather a positive thing.

The trident is already a part of the
University’s “unified graphic image.”
Besides, changing it would be a difficult
proposition- the trident is everywhere. It’s
on the gym walls, on University pamphlets,
on athletic equipment, etc. Changing it for
the sake of making it less evil-looking really
isn’t a well—placed priority.

Next week, what I especially liked
about the strategic plan.

Black greek organizations spur campus debate

ByBeckyLeMohe

Tl-ELEIALVIEW

On Thursday the Ofﬁce of Student
Activities and Greek Life and the Ofﬁce
of Multicultural Affairs announced in a
campus notice that they were welcoming
two new Greek organizations to
Washington and Lee, one of which is the
Beta Beta Nu Chapter of Phi Beta Sigma
Fraternity, Inc., which has historically been
regarded as an African—American
fraternity.

This brings us to the question that
has been circling on campus since the
announcement: Will the installation of a
chapter of Phi Beta Sigma at Washington
and Lee have a positive or negative effect
on attempts to unify students?

Since it seems that very few people
have a definite opinion on this issue, I

Write for the Phi!
E-mail.
phi@wlu.edu

   

Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
540-34ss2zo - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabuloiis selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Caﬂforworkshop&dmsMoimatlon.

 
 
     
    
   
  
    
  

Halfway between lzxington and Staunton
01: I-81 / I-64 at exit 205. Raphine. 4miles west on
Route 606. Raphine RM /Mk/M a working
farm that oﬂers "U-PICK" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

'llres-Satl0:00-5:00,Weduntil8:00
!ﬂmﬂ 

  

would like to simply present a list of pros
and cons with the goal of fostering further
discussion on the topic.

ARGUMENTS FOR

As it currently stands, the majority
of African-American students at W&L
tend not to be involved with Greek life.
One possible reason for this is that they
do not feel comfortable or welcomed in
the mostly—white fraternity environment.
The new fraternity would provide them an
alternative option for becoming involved
in the Greek system.

If the fraternity chooses to play
an active role in the Greek community, it
could increase friendly interaction
between African—American students and
other students. For example, at present,
parties are usually very segregated.
However, involvement with the Greek
system could promote integration in social

 

scenes, and this could help improve
relations between all races of students.
Since the new fraternity is an
“open” fraternity, it is seeking to embrace
diversity and brotherhood, not to exclude
students. If the fraternity really is “open”
to all eligible students, then any objections
that it is excluding members of a particular
race are invalid.
ARGUMENTS AGAINST
An African—American fraternity
would increase segregation, rather than
promote integration, because it would
further separate African—American
students from other W&L students. This
would lead to an even bigger divide
between different races of students, and
would impede efforts to promote
acceptance of diversity.
Why “ﬁx” a problem that does
not exist? African—Americans have an

you ﬁnd. it.

greater

manna,
board and

 

suntan CALIF 

Inciting star the best snxrnrnerx at ynux
lira? Easter Beale  can help
W: are coxnrriitmed. to
helping peuple  diaahilitiea gain
independenee.
dedicated teazn this: mmmzer at Camnp
Enstiatr Seals Virghiin in Graig Cmnrty.
We have job cpezaings ﬁor
 n and pr-ogranx
( , horsahmdk riding, 
sports 3111:! morn).
salary _
intorrnatinan, cazntact De-harsh. Duet): at
dduer1¢@va.eaateraea1s.aa~m at at
(640) 884-»£i»'1'50. Visit our webaite to
lean‘; lucrw "van can retake a ctiﬁerexsce.
wm°w.rva.aaaoerse»a1s.r:.otxn

Join .<:m;r

‘-7'-“"9
Isadora

Roocrn,

pravidnd. I-"arr

equal opportunity to join the fraternities
that are currently instituted at W&L, and
to prove this, some African—Americans
have successfully done so. Therefore,
why should we try to ﬁx a non—existent
problem by creating a problem that is so
controversial?

Although the new fraternity claims
it is an “open” fraternity, in reality it
probably will be an option only for
African—American students. Thus, the
new fraternity will only create more
tension between the races.

No matter what your stance is on
the issue, we can all probably agree that
the results are entirely dependent on the
direction that the new.,chapter decides to
take and how other W&L students decide
to respond to the new chapter. We
students now have a powerful
responsibility to act in a manner which

could either beneﬁt or harm the cause for
diversity and acceptance, depending on
what actions we consciously choose to
take.

To end, I would like to inform or
remind students of something that the Phi
Beta Sigma website says— “The founders
deeply wished to create an organization
that viewed itself as ‘a part of’ the general
community rather than ‘apart from’ the
general community. They believed that
each potential member should be judged
by his own merits rather than his family
background or afﬂuence...without regard
of race, nationality, skin tone or texture
of hair. They wished and wanted their
fraternity to exist as part of even a greater
brotherhood which would be devoted to
the ‘inclusive we’ rather than the

an

‘exclusive we .

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier411.com
1 877 SEE POOL

Warning
If you are under 30 or othenivise suffer
from severe Mass Media Syndrome
DO NOT read
Bob Fusse||’s (W&L class of ‘64)
MY GREAT LIFE

www.mygreat|ife.net

without approval of your mental health provider

Y.

*1

'.

 

I arts&|ife

  

i



l

9?.

  

NK3NDAY,APFI.25,ZX)5

THERING-TUMPHI 0 5

PHOTO COURTESY KATIE LONG

KappaKappaGammaoanpetesinﬂ1emgofwarevem|astweekatDe:byDays.Theannualeventisputonby
Sigmachiandallﬁvesororitiesoompetedineventsrangingfromfootballtooollectingthemostpennies.

   

PHOTO COURTESY KELLY BOSS

r?a”§EZT§iH§“§i§”1ﬁZ
Chi’s Derby Days

All ﬁve sororities give good eﬁort

ByEr'nJtlius
EDITCFINO-IE:

 

Sigma Chi jump—started Spring
Term’s social activities last week with its
annual philanthropic effort, Derby Days.
The carnpus’s ﬁve sororities competed in
various events, from powderpuff football
to comedic skits, and endeavored to raise
money through such activities as penny
wars and buying Derby Days T-shirts.

Kappa Alpha Theta won
powderpuff football after two days of
inter—sorority football games.

Pi Beta Phi won Wednesday night’s
skit by portraying a Sigma Chi boys
successfully winning over a girl with a
clever pick-up line.

Kappa Kappa Gamma won both the
penny race and Thursday night’s pizza
race. Kappa Kappa Gamma was also
declared the overall winner.

 Greek life creates factions

Fraternities and Sororities mostly good, but have ﬂaws

ByMashdRLle
NIANAQ\GB3llU3

I have always been a supporter of
our Greek system. The good things that
come out of fraternities and sororities
heavily outweigh the negative byproducts.
However there are a few things about the
system that are problematic to me.

The main problem that comes with
Greeks is the exclusiveness due to the
factions the system creates. This problem
can intensify after rush due to bad feelings
of upperclassmen towards a particular
freshman because that person did not go
to such and such fraternity.

I didn’t notice it too much until I
went through the rush process as an
upperclassman. When rushing a person
you can get to be really close to them and
by the end of rush you may feel like that
person is definitely coming to your house.
When that person doesn’t, especially if he
told you he planned on it, you will
obviously have bad feelings towards the
kid.

After rush as a freshman last year, I

.$€ti.e;rsaa:rs§
'§=ea%ti.:=..:;:re=;ae Erie

felt that I had lost a lot of upperclassmen
friends after I didn’t choose their house.
I would feel awkward seeing them in
public and purposely not make eye
contact. Now as a sophomore I ﬁnd me
on the other end of those awkward
moments. v_ , . A K,

. . While I would never be.,mad at
someone for choosing a different house,
it seems like a lot of freshmen think I
would be. While I understand the reasons
behind these fears, I wish they would
change.

As freshmen we lose a lot of our
friends that we had fall term of freshmen
year simply because they went to other
houses. In the Greek system fraternities
rarely mix outside of class. It’s not out of
bad blood for the most part, but rather,
out of laziness. When you live with a
group of friends that is really tight, there
is little reason to go outside of that comfort
zone and make an effort to hang out with
old friends. '

Because of the effort needed to
hang out with friends in other fraternities
there is a sense of exclusiveness to each
frat. Thinking back on last term, I realized

that in the whole 12 weeks I did not step
foot into another fraternity house even for
a band party. While obviously I have
attended off campus parties that were
hosted by other frats, most of the time I
hang out with only fraternity brothers at
those events.

It isinteresting to see which people
are willing to make the effort to hang out
with other people, and which ones don’t.
While I would like to think that I make
the effort necessary to keep all of my
friends, I am realistic in saying that I have
not.

While I will always say the courtesy
hello on the hill, or maybe even get a bite
to eat at the co-op with an old friend, for
the most part, I stick with my frat.

Like I said in the beginning, the
Greek system at W&L is very unique and
something that works very well and is very
enjoyable to be a part of it. I think schools
with fraternities work are much better for
students than ones without. '

At the same time, we need to take it
a little less serious and find a way to keep

. our old friends and at the same time make

the most of our own fraternity.

  

  
  
   

    

~ szaeay  '

 

_.x '

  

.t?s:.a.at;-Catt ram: .32  ‘rm’ 

  out  
Orjgxﬁae wﬁr :::zes3f}2:ar;42.££    §?'.8te§i§'m?

~ I e  i!¢i§§é§t$§&@lt'4& 

aaxea .§’3¥3¥t:iter:=.-8; axes 5: »;m«9m
~£}>3iIy am  ea: mxmam

~€:aiiy  seas, 3% Fast ‘Ear 



ﬂame Cooked Meats ﬁr  iiesyftniiiyf
E iiirées:  24 Rama Day,   am - -v

Lecatasd at
 ti! Taavm. 

   ﬁat: t95,—.i2£t6 zsreampms raw, La.*x:xisae=m2%,'va
. s      3478 I

 Feat 1?: a   of

= i    & 

 

 



 

i ' '-'*l:‘§ﬁ&&§

 

 

Seiiatils ‘*?trit*e eriiees” ;aarleh=aea« eisaariieasa

Et:::.”':~as§.~:.r».a-.a :-

5:..zd:'::°gg twee

[ -.'i’?"z.. ..
*5? iiﬂit.

‘z:»:a-ref’ as

its: zzairi Z?§;?~#t

.5

are-ans Esta ihegggita. its 

§zf3”§s egg .

      

 

word

 

You’ve been served

Trout explains why sequel to “You
got Served” will change your life

Bynughrmut

WE 

I just got served. And we’re not
talking just a little bit. . .we’re talking the
kind of served that you stay awake at
night thinking about it was so bad. . .I was
served straight street.

At first I didn’t recognize the full
extent to which I had been served, but
the more I think about it, the more I now
understand that I was served so bad that
it can only be characterized as off the

, chain. That’s right, I said it...I was

served straight street off the chain.

But the point of this article isn’t to
disclose my own personal serving. . .it is
rather to warn you all of a massive scale
serving that will be dealt to not only ev-
ery single W&L student, but to every-
one in the world. But how could so many
people be served? Who or what is go-
ing to serve you and me so mercilessly?

I will warn you that the information
I am about to divulge will dramatically
and permanently change not only the
way in which you live your life, dear
reader, but the way you view the world.
They are making “You Got Served 2.”

Let the word ring out...there is a
God, and he likes You Got Served. At
first, when I learned of such a glorious
development, I thought that all the serv-
ing that could have been shown in a
movie had clearly been depicted in the
first movie.

But, in fact, there is more serving
to be done. While the movie is far from
going into theatres (you just cannot rush
true art), we can only speculate as to
what will happen in the movie. Who will
get served? Who will be serving? VVill
they incorporate Lil Saint, the young
friend who was tragically killed due to
inner—city violence (I’m thinking a re-
occurring ghost kind of a deal. . .it could
be done really well if the acting is as
good as it was in the first movie)?

While you may watch the movie
solely for the joy of seeing some super-
sweet dance moves, I watch for true
character development. The first movie

, was filled with all the trappings of a great

American film: romance, tragedy,
loss, redemption, friendship, break
dancing, villains, and, most impor-
tantly, break dancing.

While we can only speculate as
to what will happen in the second
film, one thing we can be sure about:
someone is gonna get served. But
perhaps there is something greater to
be learned from the production of
“You Got Served 2.”

At a time when there is much
violence and disruption in the world,
it is truly comforting to know that we
can all come together as people to
enjoy the common fascination of
watching people get served.

Sure, we may disagree as to is-
sues of religion, democracy and the
basic ways of how to live one’s life,
but we all can agree that the only 
more beautiful then happy innocent
children playing or the sight of two
people falling in love is seeing some
sick break dancing moves.

Before I had the privilege of see-
ing “You Got Served,” my life was a
mess. I was so confused that at one
point I thought that I was going to
get a job and start a family when I
got older.

After watching the glorious serv-
ing that was shown, I realized that my
life was to be devoted to starting my
very own dance group to travelling
the country and ﬁghting crime by day
while serving people at night.

I have had to put this dream on
hold until I get this whole college de-
gree thing out of the way, but believe
you me, one day I will be serving
people straight street. That’s right,
be sure to behave because if you’re
bad there is a chance that me and my
crew will have to roll up on you and
serve you straight street, off the chain.

But don’t you worry, you don’t
have to wait until I serve somebody
to see some serving, you can watch
professionals serve other profession-
als in the greatest cinematic event of
this or other century: “You Got
Served 2.”

After watching the glorious serving that

was shown, I realized that my life was to be
devoted to starting my very own dance group
to travel the country and ﬁght crime by day
while serving people at night.

Breka introduces the party characters

ByEkaAkpdc'pmdBreeMellnn

B:E<A

Breka’s back after quite a break and
we have some spring cleaning to do.
When we go out, we encounter some
very interesting fypes of people.

First of all, there are the guys you
run into on your way out. They’ve al-
ready started the drinking and need to
relieve themselves. . .in the parking ga-
rage. Brilliant boys, there are cameras
in the parking garage.

Next, there are the kids you meet
on Traveller, the obvious freshmen with
the visiting relatives. They try to un-
press them by naming every place
they’ve ever partied and point it out as
Traveller passes it. Don’t do that. That’s
armoying.

Alright, so now you’re at the party,
you’ve got a beer in your hand, you look
over to see who just changed the song
on the stereo and find...jumping guy.
Not dancing guy, but jumping guy, fist
in the air as he makes his way through

the party.
Then he goes out the back door

meaniwhile his friend is still at the ste-
reo, he’s a much more mellow drunk.
Peer pressure, however, soon overcomes
his mellowness as jumping guy comes
back in the front door and his friend be-
comes jumping guy, the second.

You leave the craziness inside and
go to find the keg. There you meet over-
share drunk girl. This girl is not only
wasted, but insists on talking to every-
one that walks by the keg, convinced that
she knows them all.

This leads to awkward silence since
the girl really doesn’t know...anyone.
She shares stories from freshman year
while people nod, smile, and slowly
back away. Goodbye, over-share drunk
girl.

Back inside. You find a place on
the couch because all this people-watch-
ing has got you tired. You’re sitting
back, having a nice conversation with
strung out guy, who doesn’t have much
to add to the conversation but at least
he’s entertaining to watch.

Suddenly...you feel a hand strok-
ing your hair gently. You’d like to think
it’s a hottie, but low and behold it’s roll-

ing girl. We don’t mean she’s doing cart-
wheels, we mean she’s doing ecstasy.

You introduce yourself, and while
your attention is on her, strung out guy
gets distracted and disappears. A little
creeped out, you decide to peace out.

Now let’s fast forward 20 years.
Not much has changed, you’re at an
Alumni cocktail party and the types of
people are about the same.

Added to them are the Senators that
make “snaps to them” comments about
how great they are, trophy wives, and
drunken boyfriends that aren’t even al-
ums. Of course you still have your frat
boys that are in the band (look out for
Cho, coming to campus this spring) and
the little frat boys in training with their
khakis and blue blazer.

We would like to end this article by
giving props to the most impressive type
of person we’ve met: Tripp. He’s ready
to schmooze at the Alumni parties and
has mastered the art of introduction. He
had a firm handshake, looked us in the
eye, and made interesting conversation.
Congratulations, four years of W&L
partying has served you well.

Reﬂections on Spring Term

Kristine discusses the ﬁrst week of school after break

ByKrisI'neEa|y

Tl-El»/I.KAl\DCl-EESEGFL

Welcome back to Virginia! I hope
everyone had a lovely time soaking in the
sun...in Destin, of course. Thank
goodness for the NCUR conference to
ease us back into college life.
Unfortunately, I didn’t have time to go see
any presentations. I was too busy working
and (cough, cough) playing for that. A
three—day weekend the very first week
back from break...what a lovely way to
start Spring Term. Thank you
administration for such a rare treat.

And thank you Sigma Chi. You
made my week ﬂy by, despite the fact that
I had 200 pages of reading assigned each
night. And of course, I have to be one of
those extremely driven people that actually
does the reading. (I heard spring term
courses were less demanding. Thanks for
getting me all excited and then bursting
my bubble. I really appreciate it.)

I deprived myself of sleep to
participate in the week’s events, and I
must say I can’t complain.

Sigma Chi, because of you I got the
rare opportunity to throw around a
football. Of course, I didn’t actually get
ﬁeld time. Anything beyond the treadmill

JOKES on us_

and the elliptical machine severely tries
my athletic skills. But I did learn what
“blitzing” is. I plan to pull that out the next
time I meet a football enthusiast. I’ll throw
in “quarterback,” “linebacker,” and
“center” — which thoroughly exhausts my
‘football vocabulary.

Wait! I can add in “halftime” and
“Budweiser commercials.” I’ll sound like
a true Sportscenter fan. I know, I know.
I’m a failure at life. I hail from the land of
brawts, beer and football- the “milk and
cheese” thing is really just a misleading
moniker— and a tree probably has more
authority on the subject.

I must say though, for having so
little arm strength, I wasn’t that abysmal
at chucking it across the ﬁeld. Okay, more
like chucking it ten feet, but considering
an eight year-old could beat me at arm
wrestling, I was pretty proud of myself.

Anyway, mad props (I can write it,
but I think I’d die laughing at myself if I
ever said that out loud). Every srat girl
loves you. Okay, let’s be honest. Every srat
girl loves you even more.

Derby days, an upcoming trip to
Foxfields, not having to obscure my
carefully crafted mixer costumes with a
bulky coat... I couldn’t be more thrilled
that winter can now be put behind us.

 

Most importantly, it’s ﬁnally warm!
We can all put away our medium black
Northface ﬂeece jackets and pull out the
sandals and short-sleeved polo shirts. I am,
admittedly, ready for a new topic among
campus notices. “Lost Speedo. Could be
lying among the rocks in Goshen.” Now
that would be interesting.

The opening of the Ice Cream
Factory also puts a smile on my face. I’m
overjoyed that it is located a good walking
distance from campus. If it were nearby
I’d have to spend an extra few hours in
the gym each week. Just a note: if you want
to get on my good side, I’m a huge fan of
Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup shakes.

If you are at the pink hut anyway
(purchasing ice cream product for your
favorite columnist, of course), be nice and
pick up something for your favorite
senior.

He needs all the sympathy he can
get. Five weeks until you hit the “real”
world, hun. Unless you’ve figured out
some clever plot to avoid it. And if so, you
don’t mind sharing, do you?

Here’s to a wonderful spring term
for those poor seniors and to juniors,
sophomores, and freshman alike. Have
fun, be safe, and try not to lose your
bathing suit.

  

'52-.755
K2552 *
V407
#16:)?

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 THE RINo.:rUM PHI.

BY THE

“77 P3
MONDAY,MAY2,2005 STUDENTS AND STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECVHhNUMBEB26 ‘

 

-r.

FOR THE

WHAT’S INSIDE

Plea to the president

41 professors claim a glass ceiling
exists for faculty and administrators
at Washington & Lee; ask President
Burish to address the crisis.

Page3

lnducting the greats
Who made the 2005 Hall of Fame?
Check out page 2 for more details.

HOT TICKET

He’s coming... finally

The time’s ﬁnally here! And talk
about a hot ticket! Tickets are
deﬁnitely hard to come by, but if you
can, by some miracle, manage to go,
it promises to be a memorable
experience! Come hear Ralph Nader
in Lee Chapel at 7.30 p.m. on May 5
or get in on the live broadcast in the
Commons. Everyone is welcome
afterwards at the reception in the
Great Hall of the Science Center.

Get in on the scoop

You have another chance to cash in
on that free ice cream on the Cafe
77 patio from 3-5 p.m. on Wed.
May 4. Don’t miss it!

Sword play

Our very own W&L theater
department presents “Dreaming
and Duelling,” a ﬁlm starring our
students that will run in the
Commons theater at 8 p.m. on Fri.

_ May 6 and Sat. May 7, and at 7

p.m. on Sun. May 8. Call the
Lenfest box office for tickets.

Date-night on Daddy

Gender relations take the spotlight
this week, allowing us to swipe-
hope charges for dinner and a
movie! The perfect opportunity to
get to know someone better in a
non—frat-environment, and Daddy’s
paying! For more info, see page 5.

LOOKING BACK

This week is Holocaust _
Remembrance Week, and
W&L is hosting several
events to honor the victims of
such tragedy.

 

I The deeply moving
“Schindler’s List” will run in the
Commons theater on Mon. May 2 at
7:30 p.m., and on Tues. May 3,
Thurs. May 5 and Fri. May 6 at 9:30
p.m. Bring a box of Kleenex.

I If you can’t stomach
“Schindler’s List,” show up anytime
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. in the
Commons atrium to sign a scroll for
one of the victims. You’ll receive a
photo and remembrance clip to honor
those who suffered.

I Holocaust survivor Elizabeth ,
Strassburger will speak about her V
experiences on Mon. May 2 from
5:30-6:30 p.m. in the Commons
theater.

I Laurel Leff will speak on her
book, Buried by ‘The Times’: The
Holocaust and America is Most
Important Newspaperon Thurs. May
5 at 4:30 p.m.

I A special Yom HaShoah service
will be held in the Alumni House on
Fri. May 6 at 5 p.m. Students of all
faiths may participate, the Rabbi will‘
speak, and a Holocaust survivor will
lead a prayer for the victims.

QUICK POLL

Q: Is Derby Days in need
of change?

 

50 students polled, 24 male, 26 female. Poll has 90%
confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error.

WLUR show hosts live bands

By Kate Shellnutt
STAFF WRITER

WLUR’s “House Mountain Radio”
brings the sounds of coffee shops, concert
halls and musical venues to your car, your
room, or. . .anywhere with a radio, really.
By broadcasting “live acoustic music from
your own backyard,” this new campus
radio show hooks local musicians up to
the airways from 7 to 7:30 every Tuesday
night. .
House Mountain Radio serves as
WLUR 91.5’s first show featuring only
live music. Senior Elizabeth Wilson,
former host of “Back Roads and Rainy
Days,” put the show together to provide a
“mountain stage” for her favorite
strumming and drumming artists.

Bluegrass band Rooster’s Ruckus started
off the show’s season, and the blues-jazz-
folk combination of Washington and Lee’s
Chris Kirnmel and Lexington’s Arum Rae
performed last week.

“I know how amazing the
Rockbridge music scene is, and I just
wanted to share it with everyone else,” said
Wilson, ready to feature Grammy-
nominated folk singer Mike Seeger on this
week’s show and artists such as Larry Keel
and W&L’s Jacob’s Ladder later in the
term. “I’ve had a great response to the
show, and that’s a good feeling.”

Although‘ Wilson knows of
Lexington listeners who have called and
visited the studio, she wants the show’s
audience to expand.

“I’m hoping [the show] is going to
bring in people who wouldn’t ordinarily

listen to college radio. Generally people
are scared of innovative or different music
that doesn’t get played on commercial
radio,” said Wilson, also the Public
Relations Manager for WLUR.

“People tell me they’ve made a
point to listen to it at City Steaks or as
they were driving into town... why isn’t
it playing in the Commons where people
eat? Why isn’t it the backdrop to the
campus TV station?”

The show has yet to schedule
featured artists for its last few weeks. To
offer or recommend a band, email
Elizabeth Wilson at wilsonec@wlu.edu.
More information, the station’s schedule
and archived House Mountain Radio
shows can be found on WLUR’s newly
launched website, wlur.wlu.edu, this
Wednesday.

Theater dept.

releases first
ever W&L ﬁlm

By Kate Shellnutt
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee is proud to
present its ﬁrst ever film Dreaming and
Dueling. The movie should prove to be
very exciting. There’s romance, drama,
swordfights — what more could you ask
for? '

It stars sophomore Michael
Wagoner, senior Sarah Orvin, junior Paige
Smith, senior John Bamwell, and new to
W&L theatre, first year law student Adam
West Lee.

The movie is adapted from the play
by Canadian playwright J on Lazarus of the
same name. It tells the tragic coming—of—
age story of a high schooler and his friend
who share a passion for fencing.

Joseph Maninez, chair of the theatre
department and world—renowned armed
and unarmed stage combat expert, directed
the film. One of his past students, Aaron
Anderson who is the fencing director of
VCU, choreographed the swordﬁghts.

Nicole Risey, the production
manager, said of the movie, “It’s been a
learning experience in all the aspects of
fi1m—making from acting to directing to
cinematography to sound.” -

These showtimes are the only’

opportunities to watch Dreaming and
Duelling. The movie will only be shown
three times, so don’t miss your chance.

By Erin Julius
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Two-time Presidential candidate

Ralph Nader will speak in Lee Chapel

this Thursday. Sponsored by

CONTACT, N ader’s talk will focus on

the “American duopoly,” or the two-

party i system, and American
capitalism.

Nader rose to prominence in

, 1965, when his book, “Unsafe at Any

Speed” attacked the auto industry’s

Nader speaks Thursday

OFF|C|AL-JOHN-NIKOLAI.COM

disregard for its customers’ safety. He
is also responsible for motor vehicle
safety laws, the Safe Drinking Water
Act, the launch of the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration and
the Environmental Protection Agency.

Most recently, Nader organized
the Green Party’s first presidential
campaign in 1996, when he won
700,000 votes. When he ran again in
2000, he received 2.8 million votes.

TIME Magazine called Nader
the “U.S.’s toughest customer.”

Buffalo
Creek

GAB spearheads
event this year

By Sarah Murray
STAFF WRITER

Despite last year’s fears of

Festival will return to Lexington in two
weeks under the stewardship of the
General‘ Activities Board.

The event’s promoters have
worked to ensure that the traditional
festival adapts with the times while
retaining its low-key atmosphere.

Though the spirit of the festival
is the same, some changes have been
made so that the event conforms to
GAB rules. Security will check tickets
and lD’s at the front gate and issue
wristbands.

Festival—goers who are over 21
years old may bring as much alcohol
as they can carry, but may not bring it
inside Zollman’s Pavilion. In an
attempt to regulate drinking, security
will not allow kegs past the gate.

To ensure studentrsafety, the
festival’s producers are providing sober
rides as well as free drinking water.
Smokin’ Jirn’s B—B-Q will be on-site
to cater the event.

Tea Leaf Green, an alternative
rock group, is headlining this year’s
lineup. The Boston Globe recently
reported that “devilishly fast guitar
solos, jazzily lurching keyboards, and
a funkified, happy—go-lucky image”
characterize the San Francisco—based
band.

“For the most part the bands are
on the smaller side like they have been
in years past, but for those that enjoy
live music they should be entertaining,”
festival producer Cameron Wick said.

The festival will take place on
May 13 and 14.

Tickets ($10) and merchandise
will be available next week in front of
the Commons; all purchases may be
swiped home.

3 Sharing faith brings fellowship to W&L and VMI

VMI Chapel, GCF, Young Life encourage students from two schools to interact

By Stephanie Wiechmann
S TA F F W R i T E R

Two small stone pillars with brass
plaques stand on both sides of Letcher
Avenue to mark off the split between the
properties of Washington and Lee
University and Virginia Military Institute.
This is “Limit’s Gate.” This, for years,
also marked the spot that the two bodies
of students stopped, one on each side of
the line.

“Limit’s Gate is where cadets
stopped and where W&L [students] didn’t
enter,” said VMI chaplain James Park.
“When cadets go outside the gate, there is
a feeling they are on some sort of privilege
to be off campus.”

But, now, Sundays are an exception.
On Sunday mornings, amid the mass of
gray and black cadet uniforms in Jackson
Memorial Hall during VMI chapel
services, W&L students can be seen.
They’re not hard to spot — they’re wearing
the “civilian clothing.” The very same
night, those gray and black uniforms are
the minority —— a few hundred yards away.
They appear on the campus next door, at a

~ student-led fellowship group, amonga sea

of W&L students.

VMI cadets and W&L students have
been using their .belief in a higher power
to come together to worship as one. “Faith
is the common ground that has begun
bridging the gap,” said Park.

W&L acting chaplain Burr Datz
agrees. He believes there are two aspects
of a religious life. “We gather in worship,
community, faith, and then we are sent out
to heal the world,” he said.

Some VMI cadets and W&L

students have set out to do that together.

The two campuses have been
stereotyped and compared throughout
history, and those preconceived notions
usually lead to tense or no interaction
between the two schools.

Datz, a 1975 graduate of W&L,
explains that the two bodies of students
share more than they think — things like
home sickness, exam periods, and
hometown relationships that sometimes
disintegrate over time. “What is common
[with college life] is immense,” he said.
“What is different gets a lot more
attention.”

Robin Davis, a W&L sophomore,
sees these stereotypes as misleading. “I
can honestly say that I found some of my
closest friends in college through church
activities with [cadets],” she said. “At
first, it felt like a violation of one of the
greatest social taboos of W&L —
interacting with VMI. What most people

don’t realize is that the majority of cadets .

are amazing young men that no one
bothers to get to know because their

-lifestyle is so different from ours. . .. Most
cadets will tell you that they are thrilled

when someone wants to find out what
VMI is actually all about instead of
listening to rumors.” .

“Fellowship is a crucial part 0
Christian life and is deﬁnitely beneﬁcial
with W&L students,” said Jeff Dudas, a
VMI third classman. “Being able to share
this experience with W&L students is
awesome especially since the relationship
with VMI and W&L hasn’t always been
in the positive spotlight.”

During the 2003 school year,
W&L’s Religious Life Committee did a

study on religious life on the campus. The
study found that about 50 percent of
students “considered themselves
‘religious’ or “spiritual.” Over 40 percent
of students “considered themselves
‘committed to a faith tradition.”

On one of the survey’s open-ended
questions, the committee asked for
suggestions on how to improve religious
life on W&L’s campus. All the responses
were anonymous, so students were free to
write what they felt.

One student hit on the idea of cross-
campus fellowship. The student wrote,
“Due to the close proximity of our campus
to that of VMI, it seems that W&L
(students especially) would beneﬁt from
interaction with cadets that could be
organized between the two schools.”

What this student didn’t know is
that religious interaction between the two
campuses had grown immensely from
what it had been in the past.

When Datz was a student at W&L,
he said that there was no interaction. “The
cadets used to parade down on Sunday to
religious services in town,” he said.

In the l970’s, religious services
were mandatory for VMI cadets. During
one of these marches, a legend was born.

“The cadets were marching down
the street or on the sidewalk, on the way
to mass at St. Pat’s,” Chaplain Park said.
They marched by Red Square as some
W&L fraternity members were awake —

. the specific frat has been conveniently

forgotten. The frat members started
“chucking beer cans and beer bottles” at
the cadets, said Park.

“The platoon leader stopped the
formation,” said Park, “called an about

face towards the fraternity, then yelled
‘Charge!’"

The cadets rushed the fraternity.
“There was a brawl inside,” said Park.
Who was triumphant has also been
conveniently forgotten. The cadets soon
came out, returned to formation, and
marched to church.

-Today, things have calmed down
between the two schools. Now, students
areventuring onto each other’s campuses
for new experiences in worship and
fellowship.

According to Park, VMI chapel is
attended by 20 to 25 W&L students each
Sunday. “Washington and Lee students
bring some freedom to our worship
service,” he said. “It’s kind of hard to be
free when you’re wearing a uniform....
Their momentum and excitement is
encouraging to the cadets.”

Park said that at first, the campus
lines were drawn even in Jackson
Memorial Hall. “W&L kids sit on one side
[of the aisle] and cadets sit on the other,”
he said. He is now seeing the students
“crossing the aisle.”

“I attend VMI chapel because it is
the style of worship that I enjoy the most
of thechurches I have visited in the
Lexington area,” said W&L freshman
Jenny Sproul, “and I believe God is
speaking through Chap. I enjoy hearing
[the cadets] speak so openly. . . about what
God is doing in their lives and how he’s
shown them when they screw up.”

On W&L’s campus, cadets frequent

“many programs, including General’s

Christian Fellowship and Young Life.

See RELIGION on page 5

 

returns 

cancellation, the Buffalo Creek Music »

 
 
 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI . § ' MONDAYLMAY2.2005 '

 

 

1 V
.7
THISWEEK     TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALLGAME
Tl-l.BSDAY,MAY5 g ‘
-Track at Liberty; 4:00 _ , , t.
....,..,,..,....7 showing at ODAC s
-Men’s Tennis at NCAA’s TBA b b'1 t . th 1 1 f
i , , By Sarah Bioom een a e 0 experience e eve o _
-Women S Tenms NCAA S TBA semen sponrs wnmsn success that we did,” said Goodrich. 7
For ODAC competition, the team is
Su‘DAY’MAY8 Four competitors ind the required to provide its own horses,
-Menis Tenms at NCAA’s TBA Washington and Lee University riding Whieh is different from most shows
' -Women’s Tennis NCAA’s TBA team to a close second place ﬁnish two Where horses are ProVided for ~y
Irriack at Duke . A weeks ago at the ODAC Championships Compeiitors ii)’ the host school
at Hniiins University We had a lot of support and
S P O R T S B R I E F S Caitlin Lane, Nina cooiidge, Katic that made it riioreexciting to do as‘well
oodiicni ed u with senior Me an as we did, said Goodrich, The
G eam p g
‘ tennis team and several ‘gt
w&Lss at Brooks to represent the Generals, who fell Women s
just two points short of first-place house mothers Came to support use and
  . Rand01nh_Mac0n woinen’s c011ege_ it was nice to have a home town crowd
Wasl““gt°“ and Lee Sent“ Nathan Bridgewater and Hollins tied for third, since we don’t usually have General
Johnson (Lexington, Va./Rockbridge trailing the Generals by Seven points‘ fans in the Crowd”
County) competed at the Penn Relays Riders each Competed in two Lane and innioi Naiaiia ‘V
on Thursday eVening in Philadelphia: iinnning rounds and Onc “under Saddle” Maxwell will continue to train and
Pa‘ round. In 'um in rounds riders are represent the Generals in May at the
Jpg ’ Itll'tNt"al'Sb
, judged on their technique over a series of n ereo egia e 3 ion s in ‘in in)’,
vv&LMen5La:r°sseFallst° fences while the under saddle round 0lll0- This national Competition
Lynchburg,106, in ODAC Semis highlights the rider’s ability to control and retluires riders to meet seVeral diriieult
(4/25) communicate with the horse while requirements throughout the seasonin
Third-seeded Lynchburg scored four maintaining composure. order to tlualifY- .
goals in the first and third quarters en As a team, the Generals were Lane end Maxwell will each
route to a   Over SeCond_ awarded sgcond place in the  Sh0W Wlthln COII1pCtltlOI1 lCVClS Vi
seeded Washington and Lee in the rounds and first in the undersaddle round. assigned bY_ the rider’s experlenee
ODAC men’s lacrosse tomnmnent Lane and Goodrich each placed in Cm’. top MaXWCll Wlll C0II1I.>ete in only the
semiﬁnals on Tuesday afternoon at 1 ﬁve individual positions in each of the under Saddle e0mpet1t1on,wh1le Lane
Wilson Fie1d_ classes, or competition rounds. The duo Will Compete in both 3 Jumping and STEVEN MARINOS/STAFF PHOTOGRA
also earned First-Teain All—Conference under saddle found» _ _ ‘=7
w&Lwomen’s|_xro$eEdges honors for excellence in competition for This W111 be 1-an€’S  time ZaohBausohandTay|or McConnell hit backtobackhomerunsina losingeﬁort
 !5&MoDAc the third year In a row. representing the Generals at nationals againstWestWginiaTed1mWednesday.ﬂ1eGeriaalsﬁnisredﬂ1eirseasmm
“Without people willing to lend us
TIﬂe(4I24)
horses to compete on, we wouldn’t have

Top-seeded Washington and Lee
overcame a 5-2 deﬁcit late in the

second half to post a 6-5 win over 2  5 H  

third-seeded Randolph-Macon in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference

Championship game. For the 12th-  
ranked Generals, it was their third

COI1SCClltlVC COl'1f6I‘CIlCC CI‘OWI1.   n C e d

W&LWomen’sTemIsWns sports Release ,

 SPORTS INFORMATION

The Washington and Lee women’s

tennis team won its 14th ODAC Washington and Lee University has ,
Championship in the last 15 years by announced the 18th class to be inducted
taking all six singles ﬂights and all into its Athletic Hall of Fame. The class
three doubles ﬂights in the three—day includes William Seaton ’36, Junie Bishop
tournament hosted by Hollins ’41, Jim Fahey ’50, Harry Broadbent, Don
University. Eavenson ’73, John Embree ’75, Dave

Leunig ’80 and Angie Carrington Murphy
’94. All eight will be recognized at the
Athletic Hall of Fame dinner on Fri., Sept.
9 and at the Generals’ football game
against Alfred University on Sat., Sept. 10.
However, Seaton, Bishop, Fahey and
Broadbent will be officially inducted
among their peers at the University’s Five-
Star General Dinner on Fri., Sept. 23.
William Seaton ’36 competed in
baseball, boxing and track, but most
notably was a four—year letterwinner for
the football team. Seaton quaiterbacked
the Generals to a Southern Conference and
State Championship in 1934 and was
named an Honorable Mention All-
America following his senior campaign.
Junie Bishop ’41 was an
outstanding running back for the football
teams of 1937-49. He was named to the

   

SevenW&LWomen’sLacmsse freshmjan A1ii—a:tate5tt(:)atn in 1937. d
Pia!  Ta.“ lm Cy was 3 tI'Cl'I16I1 OUS
,. (428) C three—sport athlete for the Generals,

lettering for the football, baseball and
basketball teams. Fahey was the first post-
WWH athlete to be awarded three varsity
monograms and he was tabbed the
school’s senior athlete of the year by the
Ring 'I‘urn Phi.

Harry Broadbent served as the head
wrestling coach at Washington and Lee
from 1946-49, compiling a record of 29-
5. He led the Generals to Southern
Conference Championships in 1948‘and

Three-time defending ODAC
women’s lacrosse champion
Washington and Lee had seven
players named to the All-Old
Dominion Athletic Conference team.
Additionally, senior midﬁelder
Kristen Brown (Baltimore, Md./
Catonsville) was named the Player of
the Year, while head coach Jan
Hathom earned Coach of the Year

honors. 1949'
Don Eavenson ’73 lettered for both
W&LGo|fCIaimsTwoA|lODAC the football and lacrosse teams at W&L.
 In football, Eavenson was elected team '
Washington and Lee freshman captain as a senior, eaming All-College
N ath am 61 Jamés (Keller, T ex a S /Kane 1,) Athletic Conference accolades as a guard.
and senior Ged Johnson (Darien, J,°hn Embree 75 was_ a four—year
Conn./raft School) have been named letterwinner for both the tennis and soccer
to the Aii_Oid Dominion Athietic teams at W&L. He earned Second Team _
All-State accolades in soccer following his

Conference golf team. . . . :  '  i i _ = 2 § - § -  - ‘  '
_]llI1lOI' season when he led the team in  ' ' i ' ' ' ~ ' ' ~ .

1  sen  meieeesileeeseteet  T   
-  games tteanstjaii at equal? er lenses statue WE _.

three-tiine Team MVP.

  Dave Leunig ’80 was a four—year    --  _
\ letterwinner for both the basketball d W °' ;;  ;
   golf teams, serving as a team captairiuin  in __ E

golf as a senior.  

Angie Carrington Murphy ’94 was I l _   .. . ' .5 V

57?aI7IU/el0@VV/U-ed! Z.»§;‘f{¥§?£§f£§Z2”$§’.f§nZ"E.Z”§§.§‘§‘n‘§  _  it -» « V ‘ 

2
.
5.
=5
3-
i

SOCCCI teams.

 

.1’

. At parties, beer

_ Yes, everything is green and pretty
- now. But here’s what I hate- One’s

~ live here “all year.” They don’t have
I to be here when everything is DEAD

 

 ZﬂF
I

IDIII

IIJIIS

 

THERNG-TUMPHIO3

STAFF EDITORIAL

needs to be in a can

Times have changed at
Washington and Lee, and nowhere is
this more evident that at your average
frat party.

This year, fraternities have been
required to provide wristbands to those‘
who are of age, security roams around
more frequently, and the names of sober
officers and sober drivers are posted.
All of these changes were made in the
name of safety. We are concerned,
however, that there is one danger still
being overlooked.

Time after time, bartenders at
parties will take a can of beer, open it,
and pour it into a plastic cup.

Any list of “safety tips” for
women drinking at parties emphasizes
one rule: when you drink, it’s best if you
take only unopened bottles or cans,
because it is too easy to slip drugs into
an open container.

With all of the sexual assault
awareness this year, it is surprising that
this fact has not been discussed.

Since Washington and Lee’s rate
of “sexual touching against their will” is
twice that of colleges nationally,
according to the health survey released
this past fall, we are clearly a
community that needs to take every
possible precautionlwhen it comes to
women’s safety at parties.

Date—rape drugs are colorless and
odorless, so they present an especially
insidious danger that we should all make
ourselves aware of.

No one is to blame for overlooking
the dangers of open containers, but from
now on we think bar-tenders (and party-
goers) should keep this in mind.

Just passing out the beer in cans is:
one of the simplest ways to help ensure
safety at our fraternity parties.

UPS & DOWN

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson takes
a break from the Spring Tenn high life
long enough to hand down the rise and
fall of a whole lot of stuﬂ’.

O Aprilshowers
All I’ve got to say is, there better be a
whole heck of a lot of May ﬂowers.

0 Baseball Underdogs

The Orioles and White Sox lead their
DIVISIONS, and the Nationals and
Diamondbacks are on their respective
leaders’ tails.

Giape May, New Jersey

Since the ‘60s, this town has banned
speedos. This week, they legalized
them. I would really like to
understand what motivated them.

0 “Hitchhiker’s Guide”
Skip it, read the book instead. (Insert
hilarious “42” reference here)

0 Laura Bush

Bipartisan hilarity at White House
Correspondents’ Dimer. (See quote
of the week). Best part- she writes her
own material.

ONorth Korea

Still conducting missile tests. You
know, just to remind Japan that at any A
time, they could get nuked AGAIN.

0 Retro

Here’s my prediction: next year,
during the summer, the macarena will
return in the guise of ironic kitsch.

Ochessboxing

www.wcbo.org Play four minutes of
chess, ﬁght a three-minute round of
boxing. Continue your chess game for
four minutes, then another boxing
round. First one to KO or checlcmate

the opponent wins. I have found my
calling in life.

Qcampus beautiﬁcation

parents visit at either the beginning or
the end of the year. They rave about
how pretty it is and how they’d like to

AND GRAY! Maybe it’s just me.

Profs point to glass ceiling in W&L administration

To President Burish, the Board of
Trustees, and Members of the University
Community: ,

We. the undersigned faculty
members of Washington and Lee
University hereby express concern about
the management of this university.
Washington and Lee explicitly adopted a
policy in the year 2000 that committed us
to recruiting and retaining a more diverse
range of students, faculty, and
administrators. We wish to point out that,
although recent successes in student
admissions and in faculty hiring have
begun to enrich this environment for all
of us, a glass ceiling remains. The
administration has not adhered to the
“Statement on Diversity” adopted by the
Board; if it does not change direction soon,
all these gains, and our very integrity, are
in danger.

Certain recent decisions indicate to
many of us that women’s contributions to
Washington and Lee are undervalued. We
applaud the substantial diversity now
among administrators and staff in Student
Life. It is also true that women now chair
some undergraduate departments,
programs, and committees, increasing
their authority and inﬂuence. However,
in the academic core of this university, far
too few women have ascended to the
highest posts. The current administration
did not create these problems, but they
have not yet demonstrated a commitment
to correcting them. We are frustrated at
this lack of progress, despite yearly
meetings between the senior
administration and the Women
Administrators and Faculty Group asking
for attention to gender inequities in hiring,
policies, benefits, and salary. President
Burish writes in his vision statement,
“How can we achieve sufﬁcient diversity
in faculty, students, and staff so that all
members of the University can participate
in the liberating and transforming
exposure to values, experiences, and
assumptions of people unlike
themselves?” It is striking to us that
“administration” was left off that list.

In particular, we suggest that the
rejection of Interim Dean Jeanine
Stewart’s candidacy for the position of
Dean of the College violates the policy on
diversity and damages our community. We
fully intend to welcome and support the
new Dean, Howard Dobin; we also note
that he will be our only Jewish senior
administrator, and as recent anti—Semitic
incidents on campus remind us, we sorely
need such leadership. However, this gain
should not have cost us the only woman
who has ever held a senior position in

academic administration at Washington
and Lee. In fact, President Burish and
Provost Williams have put a good
candidate in a difficult position. As
someone hired for a job that a well-
qualiﬁed woman could have continued to
ﬁll, Hank Dobin will inevitably symbolize
administrative resistance to maintaining
women in positions of significant
inﬂuence. His appointment bypasses the
candidacy of Jeanine Stewart, who has
» more experience at this level of
administration and with liberal arts
institutions. Dean Stewart has also served
with tremendous approval from the faculty
even in this time of diminished resources.
She achieved this support despite a
proliferation of vice presidents
undercutting the executive power of the
Dean of the College. Is it a coincidence
that when a woman ﬁnally ascends to this
role, changes in the institutional hierarchy
radically diminish the authority of that
position?
' Women have worked as associate
deans in all three sectors of the university,
and granted, in the law school this role
has more power and prestige than on the
undergraduate campus. Nevertheless, the
scarcity of women at the top of the
hierarchy impoverishes us. Moreover,
female candidates at Dean Stewart’s level
and with her extraordinary administrative
gifts are difﬁcult to recruit. We fear that,

through this decision, we have lost an.

opportunity that may not recur for a very
long time. In the meantime, how can we
encourage our women students to serve
as leaders, when Washington and Lee
University cannot yet tolerate women in
its highest ranks?

This is not an isolated incident.
Among 33 members of the Board of
Trustees, only 3 are women. No woman
has ever held an endowed chair at the Law
School, much less ;the_ pos_ition_ of Dean,
and only’ 22% of  ipriofeissors ithere are
women. No woman has ever held the
prestigious Directorship of the Frances
Lewis Law Center, nor chaired the
Appointments Committee. In the Wdﬁarns
School and the College, women hold only
2 out of 31 endowed chairs, and only
15.8% of full professors are women.
These numbers are signiﬁcantly below the
average cited by the Chronicle of Higher
Education: in 2001, the average number
of female full professors nationwide at
baccalaureate—granting institutions was
22.5%. Some cite our relatively recent
date of coeducation as justification for
these poor numbers, but 2005 marks the
(unheralded) 20"‘ anniversary of the
admission of women to undergraduate life.

————~— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSI'l'Y -

THE RING -TUM PHI.

HEDITOR.-IN—CHlEF

MANAGING EDITOR
ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. UFEEDIIOR

PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITOR

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

(XDPY EDITORS

7heF?hg-umH1isptbisI1edMaxiaysdimgtretndag1aduatesdndyear
atWmh'ngtonandLeeUriversity, Lex'ngton,\firy'I'a
TheFIhg-atnPh'samerrberofTl'eNIedaBoard,wtid1<2nbetea3I1edat
medeboard@vwtt.em,butksdt1er\Msei'deper1derit
7haFﬁig-tzmPhivveIoomesal
Allstbmssionsmustbeen‘eIedtopIi@Mu.eduorhmeUriversityCentermaboxby5p.m.
Fridaytoappearhttiefolcmhginreeksedtiori.
77neFlhg-umF7ireseNesmengntoedtstbn1$kxsforoontemaruIengI'1.
Lettersartdoolumrsdonotrieoessarityretieettheopirioriof TheF§1g4rmPhiEdtoria|Board.
Advertisingdoesnotretiedtheopinionsof TheFIhg—umPhiorilsstaﬂ.
ltisrievvsrneperobserveswnaatooundeﬁriﬁorsofbelaridobsoeriﬂy.

TheFﬁ1g-tunPh'
UrivetsiyCornmnsRoorn.341
Washirgrx1ar1dLeeUriversity

Lex'ngtnn,Vrg'1‘a24450
Telephone: (540)45840&)
Fax (540)4584059
Emaitph'@wtu.edu
Stbsefption rate$40

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS

MARSHALL RULE
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON
ANNE FINLEY
BREE MELTON
STEVEN MARINOS
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
VANESSA ARNESS
SARAH MURRAY

Two decades represent an ample length of
time for hiring women at various levels
and fostering their success, yet we have
not done so at appropriate levels. These
statistics demoralize many of us.
Combined with recent crises, they
compromise our conﬁdence in the current
administration. This climate’ also
engenders fear among many faculty
members, especially untenured professors,
of speaking their minds openly.

We need women in high places at
Washington and Lee. r We need them
because they are talented and dedicated
teachers, scholars, artists, and
administrators. We need them as evidence
to our students, male and female, that
women can achieve success, authority, and
power. We need them to keep insisting,
as Jeanine Stewart has always done, that
we live up to our professed values in all
areas of university life—not least by
considering diversity in hiring and
admissions and by promoting open
conversation through a range of courses,
programs, and policies.

Many initiatives could improve
the climate at Washington and Lee, and
not only for women:

We ought to consider hiring
minority and women professors at senior
as well as junior levels and creating new
endowed chairs to attract them.

We need ,a better balance of
conﬁdentiality and transparency in matters
of faculty salary. For instance, we are
asked simply to trust, without data, that
gender bias in salary has been eliminated.
President Burish writes in his letter to the
faculty of April 28"‘ that we “need a data-
driven procedure for addressing salary
equity.” In fact, objective oversight is
more important to many of us.

We are wary of the president’s
proposal in the same letter to create “a new
senior administrative position to focus on
important faculty issues.” Women “need
to be admitted to the existing power
structure; a position invented just for a
woman to ﬁll does not serve anyone’s
interests.

Most fundamentally, we must
recognize and reward the
accomplishments of the women among us,
even if (and because) their contributions
may look different from those we have
formerly valued. No one _at any level
should be permitted to decide that he‘ or
she cannot or will not work with an entire
class of people.

We ask President Burish and the
Board to show leadership immediately and
address this crisis. The marginalization of

women on this campus is anachronistic;
it is bad for business in a time of
signiﬁcant institutional change; and it is
contrary to the values we profess. We have
passed the resolution: now we need
positive action and a system of
accountability.

Elizabeth Knapp, Associate Professor of
Geology, Department Head

Ellen Mayock, Associate Professor of
Romance Languages, Associate Dean of the
College

Domnica Radulescu, Professor of
Romance Languages

Lesley Wheeler, Associate Professor of
English, Head of the Women’s Studies Program

Anna Brodsky, Associate Professor of
Russian, Head of Russian Studies

Alexandra Brown, Professor of Religion

Darryl Brown, Professor of Law

Kevin Crotty, Professor of Classics

Ted DeLaney, Associate Professor of
History »

Elisa DiCaprio, Visiting Assistant

Professor of History

David G. Elmes, Professor of
Psychology

Dennis Garvis, Associate Professor of
Management

Louise Halper, Professor of Law

Margaret Howard, Professor of Law

Suzanne Keen, Professor of English

John Lambeth, Associate Professor of
Romance Languages

Robin LeBlanc, Associate Professor of
Politics

Tim Lubin, Associate Professor of

Religion

Nancy Margand, Professor of
Psychology

Elizabeth Oliver, Professor of
Accounting

Bob Stewart, Associate Professor of
Psychology

Twenty additional faculty members
asked to endorse this letter anonymously:

Jane Doe, Associate Professor

Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College

John Doe, Asst. Professor in the College '

John Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe

John Doe

John Doe

John Doe

How I learned to quit
worrying and love Spring Term

Bycarissasnpiey

NTHEFKIS

Spring Term is ﬁnally here! While
I'm not much of a partier, I know enough
to be sure that there is no better time for
fun on campus than spring term. I
encourage everyone to do the following
things before they go home for summer.

1) Relax outside. While studying
outside can be a little distracting, there is
no reason not to spend some time enjoying
the weather.

Even though it has been cold and
rainy lately, there will be lots of
opportunities to grab a book, journal, or
iPod and some sunscreen and head
outside. Find a piece of grass (1
recommend the front lawn or the park next
to Waddell Elementary School) and take
an hour or two to sleep or just enjoy some
time away from schoolwork.

2) While I’m on the subject of
enjoying the outdoors, how about
grabbing some friends for a game of
Frisbee, a bike ride, or a hike?

The cross country trails behind the
ruins are a great place to get a litﬂe exercise
or have a picnic by the river.

Or, rent some tennis racquets and
catch a couple quick games after class.

3) Find a lawn party.

My favorite parties of the year, the
lawn party is a cross between the fun of a
Friday night in a frat basement and a
country club atmosphere.

Get a drink of choice and ﬁnd a
rocker on the front porch. Then head to
the s1ip—n-slide or a game of Frisbee.

V Enjoy the lack of crowded, loud
areas to talk to srat sisters or frat brothers
or meet someone new. ‘

4) Take in a sporting event. No more
bundling up or huddling under umbrellas
while counting the minutes until some hot
chocolate or a warm blanket.

Support the Generals‘ in the sport of
your choice and in the warm rays of the
sun.

5) Find a gift for mothers day or
treat yourself to some farm-fresh food at
the farmers market.

While there aren’t always a lot of
vendors, its worth a quick stop in the
parking lot behind the Southern Inn on
Wednesday morning.

6) Take a break from sorority or
fraternity food to grab some lunch at one

’ of the cafes. Some offer outdoor seating

but each offers a chance to get off campus
and take some time for yourself or to catch
up with friends.

Honor Forum appears on
  Page 4 this week

 

  

AﬂH 

“If you really want to end tyranny in the world,

you ’re going to haveto stay up later.”

— QUOTEOFTHEWEEKLanmsda,waagmrimmmabwthbeawuedmema&mmrwhmHaseuess

conwponzhls

|VU‘DAY,MAFﬂ'l5,ZI5

U.S. could beneﬁt from drug policy reconsideration

ByBeckyLeMo'neV

Tl-EIJEHALVEW

Attention everyone! I know this
may come as a shock to you, but I feel
that it is my duty to report it:

There are students at W&L who use
illegal drugs.

Yes, shocking, but true. In fact, it
seems that all over the country there are
people using illegal drugs.

So, here is the most shocking
assertion yet (especially coming from a
liberal):

The US. should
reconsider its drug policy.

From a philosophical standpoint,
the reason why drugs are outlawed in the
first place is because the government feels
it has a duty to protect the public from
harm. Yet, this assumed duty is in direct
contention with individual liberty.

If we agree with John Stuart Mill’s
Harm Principle, which states that “the only
purpose for which power can be rightfully
exercised over any member of a civilised

seriously

  

eﬁtgeaggaoa
~Nw_°_,,,..-w-*~""' ”*-.,.

\>
\ ’.

 §_._§i%§{3E‘§§€E’

ﬁeaiatearrr
iexiagran is
Sweetheart Strap

/‘9‘°”‘"°3:>. //J’5°°~
'-3: »'

      

  

21 "W. Nelsen St.
ze»§3-é5%3
Mon. ~ Eiri its-§:3§
Sat lt.’i~5

“sensper not save reef”

      
     
  
 
     
   
  
    
    

    
  

  

  
 

llli: "ll .
ills. 
"7 : '

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Rapbine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 0 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects: Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Caﬂforworlrshop&chssinfoimatIon.

Halfway between lexington and Staunton
On I-81 /I-64 at exit 205. Raphine. 4nu'1e: west on
Route 606. Raphine RM /M/rr/M a working
farm that oﬁers "U-PICK” opportunities for fmh
fun‘! when in season.

Tires - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
m. 

community, against his will, is to prevent
harm to others,” then we are compelled to
decide whether the use of drugs harms
only the user or if it inﬂicts harm on others
as well.

Yes, there are instances in which the
abuse of drugs can interfere with a
person’s ability to function and to thereby
contribute effectively to society.

However, I do not feel that ‘we can
justifiably apply this to every case. It
would be unjust to condemn the use of a
drug simply because some people choose

' to abuse it; this restricts the liberty of the

individual who responsibly uses a drug.
For example, if a man chooses to
smoke marijuana in the privacy of his own
home one night a week, when he has no
obligations to fulfill towards any other
individual, can we truly assert that his
action is inﬂicting harm on another?
Opponents will argue that by using
drugs, the man is physically harming
himself and that, in the long—run, he will
not be able to effectively contribute to
society, and may even become a burden

3'

      

. -' : 3' i’.

 

 

 

 

me?
you and. is.

greater

counsellors

(jnqunliczs,

 

~»$aaday‘ WM iitizicitee 8: . - -
 as: T? T18 

 

 Cooikasi Mania 1%‘ 
 24$ Roars at my,   e 

Lncaiterl at .


 

on the state.

However, how many people
become burdens even with drugs
outlawed? The current “war on drugs” has
not deterred people from using drugs.
Instead, the war on drugs has induced
many other “evils” into society.

In a system where drugs were legal,
our money, time, and energy could be
spent to educate about the harmful effects
of drugs and to protect consumers from
the misuse of drugs.

. This would bring about a multitude
of other beneﬁts for society, and could
possibly reduce the negative effects that
drug use may have on society, when used
improperly by certain individuals.

Today, federal and state
governments spend between $40 and $60
billion per year to fight the war on drugs,
about ten times the amount spent in 1980.
Our prison population has even increased
by 400 percent since 1980, while the
general population has increased just 20
percent.

Yet, despite all of these efforts, the

  
 
 

 
    

.: toatczsmw-,sa

illicit drug trade is thriving, with drugs
becoming cheaper and more available.

In addition, annual surveys of high
school students indicate that heroin and
marijuana are as available today as they
were in 1975. The fact is that the “war on
drugs” has been highly inefficient, costly,
and futile.

Conversely, if drugs were legalized,
the negative effects of the war on drugs
would be reversed. Since consumers
would be able to obtain drugs from within
the U.S., the prices would decrease and
so would drug-related motivations to
commit crime, as consumers would no
longer rely on stealing to support their
habits.

In addition, the legalization of drugs
in the U.S. could greatly diminish the sale
of drugs in the U.S. from markets that are
financially supporting terrorist operations.
As it stands now, the United Nations
Office for Drug Control and Crime
Prevention believes that up to 65 percent
of Afghan opiates are entering the Western
market through central Asian republics.

If retail markets in the U.S. opened
up, more Western consumers would
purchase drugs from within the country
rather than outside the country because
drugs would be cheaper and easier to
obtain from the U.S. markets.

There are numerous other beneﬁts
from the legalization of drugs, including:
halting the spread of AIDS and other
diseases by eliminating the motivation to
restrict the sale of hypodermic needles,
reducing the over-sized prison population,
clearing up the courts, and saving tax
dollars spent on unsuccessful programs
and initiatives to halt drug trafficking.

Thus, while some may consider
drug use a moral wrong, is it really a liberty
that we can justly restrict through leg
means? -

And, if we do continue to restrict
this liberty, are we really doing so for the
beneﬁt of society? I think that before we
continue to shut the door on ever
legalizing drugs, we should consider what
is at stake here: individual liberty and the
common good.

 

survunszn C331? 3058

Ian-olzizrmgﬁ-zxrtl-uabest stxxrnrrtexcsfymar
Easter Seals Virg-irwla can he-3p
we are cotuunitmed. on
helping people with  gain
ind-ependennzae.
dedicated {earn this srununer at Camp
Easter $3315 ‘Virginia. in Craig t'Jou11ty'.
Vlfauc have job  for camp
and program
horsahadk riding," music,
manna, sports IIE1 maria).
board and salary’ jprattridnci.
infoxrnattinet. cacvsact Debarah Duet}: at
dduerka@w=a.e<a.afteraeaIs.ca~rn at at
(540) :86-G~6.'i'50. Visit our we-baite to
learn ham: jrcau can nmke a. etiﬁerexwe.
vvww...~va.eaaeex:se<a1et.c.otxrx

join our

lenders

Roanrt,
For

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 Nova areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
wvvw.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

Warning

If you are under 30 or othen/vise suffer
from severe Mass Media Syndrome
DO NOT read
Bob Fusse||’s (W&L class of ‘64)

MY GREAT LIFE

www.mygreatIife.net

without approval of your mental health provider

,4

NY}

 

V

 

  

MONDAY, MAYZZX5

artsalife

 

THERING-TUMPHI 0 5

 

Dinnerand a
movie on Daddy

ByBreeMeIm
A$T.L|FEE3fTU?

Dating is back, or at least the
Gender Relations Committee is trying to
bring it back.

You had better keep May 12 open
because next Thursday, you can paint the
town on daddy’s dime. This week the
GRC is setting up in the Commons to sell
vouchers to select Lexington restaurants
and Hull’s Drive-In theatre.

The vouchers can be purchased by
check or cash or by. swiping it home, and
I’m sure your parents would support a
nice, healthy date (or a better dinner than
d—hall!). I

The vouchers come in
denominations of 5, 10, and 20, so there
will be a variety of price ranges to choose
from depending on what kind of date you
would like. You can get dinner at a nice
restaurant and then drive over to Hull’s
for a fun romantic comedy.

The GRC has four
subcommittees each seeking a different
way to promote positive gender
interactions.

The proposed date night is only one

such option, so the campus can look
forward to other activities in the future.
So many people keep friends of the
opposite sex when they are freshmen, it
seems strange that those friendships should
fall apart after the first year. Perhaps it is
because it’s far easier to maintain those
friendships when we all live together in
the freshmen dorms.

Regardless of what the cause is, the
GRC is’ hoping to encourage the
cultivation and preservation of
relationships between men and women.

It’s often difficult to meet people at
fraternity parties and develop a
relationship‘ from a one night thing filled
with loud music and alcohol. The GRC
wants to provide other situations in which
men and women can interact in order to
normalize gender relations.

So gentlemen, call up that cute girl
from economics class and invite, her to
dinner and a movie.

Ladies, don’t be afraid to shoot an
e-mail to that cute boy you met in the co-
op the other day because you can take him
out, too.

And remember, ﬂowers are always
a nice touch.

Religion bridges carnpus gap

Corihuedtmrnt|'IeFmrtPage

“The GCF Leadership" for W&L
does a great job bringing in speakers that
talk on issues that are critical to a
Christian’s growth anddevelopment,” said
VlVlI cadet Dudas, which is why he attends
the function most Sunday evenings.

W&L sophomore Ryan Gritter has
had a great experience fellowshipping with
cadets. “There are not a lot of Christian
guys on campus here,” he said, “so it was
refreshing to make new Christian friends...
[They] have encouraged me to stay strong
in temptations here and have a different
perspective on things that can be helpful
and refreshing.” I

Cadets have been a part of GCF .for
a number of years, Park said. Before the
Commons was built, GCF was held in Lee
Chapel. “They were attracting 125 to 150
students on a Sunday night — and 20 to 25
were cadets. They even put a cadet on their
leadership committee to have a voice from
our side,” said Park.

Local churches in the area also hold
youth groups where students can
intermingle. Matt Williams, a VMI third

classman, attends Trinity Methodist’s
college group. .

“I like fellowship with anybody, and
it’s always nice to see a break in the sea of
uniforms and buzz-cuts,” he said. “I get a
better feel of ‘how the other half lives’ by
talking with them.” A

Davis, who also attends, thinks that
cadets have been a positive presence in her
religious growth. “College isn’t really a
time when people think about going to
church or continuing religious traditions
they upheld while still at home with their
parents,” she said. “Those of usthat still
wake up on Sundays, no matter what
happened the night before, or give up part
of our Sunday afternoons for college group
often get funny looks and many questions.
A lot of the cadets have set a fine example
of the fact that continuing your faith in
college isn’t an abnormal thing to do, and
it can in fact be great. They’ve been so
supportive.” ’

Datz respects the religious
community of both universities. “A group
of faith—f1lled folks get together and ask
‘What can we offer up to prayer for you?’

It takes a lot of trust to be that vulnerable.”

!'I'l|DEN'I'

W&L Bookstore Presents...

(Co-sponsored by Hillel for National Holocaust Remembrance Week).

Buried by The Times: The Holocaust and America’s Most
Important Newspaper is an in-depth look at how The New
York Times failed in its coverage of the fate of European
Jews from 1939-1945. It examines how the decisions that
were made at The Times ultimately resulted in the minimiz-
ing and misunderstanding of modern history’s worst geno-
cide. Laurel Leff, a veteran journalist and professor of
journalism, recounts how personal relationships at the
newspaper, the assimilationist tendencies of The Times’
Jewishowner, and the ethos of mid-century America all led.

the Times to consistently downplay news of the Holocaust.

Ms. Lejf will be on campus this
Thursday to give a talk in the

commons theater and sign copies
of her book.

 

  

  

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

word

 

NU‘lDAY,MAY2,ZI5 '

A W 8:, L education will
destroy your future

By Marshall Rule
THE POTATO MAN

I am convinced that Washington and
Lee University does not want me to
succeed in life. It continually puts me
down, lowers my self confidence, and
eliminates any chance of getting an edge
on my peers.

You may think that I am being
melodramatic about the conspiracy of
Robert E. Lee, George Washington,
President Burish, and the rest of the
administration, but I assure you, this is no
laughing matter.

The first way that the school has
eliminated any chance of my future
success was making a semester schedule
that allows every other college student in
the country to get good summer jobs
before I do.

Harnpden Sydney College students
are taking ﬁnals right now. Then they are
off to their internships and decent summer
gigs. Meanwhile, because we still have
four more weeks left of school, no
company can hire me because they need
people now, not in four weeks.

So while my friends from other
schools will all be working at a law firm
or some real business, I will be making
250 phone calls a day as a telemarketer
getting paid 7 bucks an hour.

I know that most of the W&L
population doesn’t really care about
getting a summer job because they don’t
need the money, but there are a few of us
“normal” college students out there.

It also doesn’t exactly help that there

is no grade inflation at this school
whatsoever. Don’t get me wrong, I’m not
looking for an easy A in every class, but
the occasional easy C wouldn’t be too
much to ask would it?

The social scene isn’t exactly
preparing me for real life either. Dating is
something that just doesn’t occur at this
school. The only dating scene at this
school is a random hookup or a marriage.
There doesn’t seem to be much gray area.

Adding to this fact is the idea that a
typical W&L date consists of meeting up
at a preparty to play some Beirut for an
hour or so and then go to a sweaty
basement to dance to an 80's cover band
while trying to avoid the pools of beer and
other unidentifiable liquids all over the
concrete ﬂoor. Very romantic.

In between avoiding the hookup
from the night before and trying to pull
out a C+ in yo_ur Discrete Math class, there
isn’t much to do in the metropolis called
Lexington.

So you are inevitably forced to drink
to make the time go by. Next thing you
know, you wake up a senior in spring term
that has cocktail hour at 10 o’clock in the
morning every day.

That’s right; I’m going out on a limb
in saying that this school breeds alcoholics.

So by the time I graduate from W&L
(in another seven years), I will have
become an alcoholic that is dating
impaired and tears movie tickets for a
living (no offense Mr. Movie Ticket Tearer,
you do great work).

Don’t worry Mom, at least I am
having $120,000 worth of fun.

So by the time I graduate from W&L (in another
seven years), I will have become an alcoholic

that is dating impaired, and tears movie tickets
for a living (no offense Mr. Movie Ticket Tearer,

you do great work). ‘

Seersucker, horses

Breka recaps Foxﬁelds and oﬁers up
a little advice for future races

By Bree Melton ‘
BR EKA

Foxfields.‘ Wow, what a fun,
muddy, interesting experience. It was
great seeing everyone at the pinnacle of
their frat- and sratdom. This being my first
Foxﬁelds experience, I learned that there
are some key things that make your day
complete.

The gentlemen must be wearing a '

Vineyard Vines tie, plaid or seersucker
pants, and ‘toting no less than three handles
of alcohol, one of which must be Beam.

The ladies, of course, must be in
their finest Lily dresses, a giant hat (I’ve
been waiting all year to wear mine), and a
huge smile because we do not pay for
alcohol.

I personally was thrilled to see at
least three seersucker suits. If it’s
reasonable to be obsessed with a fabric, I
might just be seersucker’s biggest fan. I
also had to turn and follow when I saw a
car drive by with two Beirut tables
strapped to it. I later found them under an
SAE and a VA Tech flag. I went to
introduce myself and see if they knew my
friends, but a ﬁght broke out and I had to
duck out of the way of ﬂying mud.

Earlier in the day, I had tried to
instigate some friendly mud—wrestling,
which in retrospect probably isn’t very
lady—like, but luckily no one would take
me up on it.

Some of my friends were actually
interested in betting on the race, but that’s
certainly not a thing necessary to the
validation of your experience. Because
really — horses? What horses?

However, there are some definite
things not to do while enjoying the races
and the company of your friends. Do not
get arrested. As much as I was delighted
by the sight of the seersucker suits, I was
incredibly saddened to later see one of
them carted away by the police. He was

not only cuffed, but one of the policemen
sat in the back of the truck with his arms
around the poor guy — I guess to keep him
from jumping out of the bed and running
away. Which would have been a problem
considering their golf carts only went
about two miles an hour. Why even bother
to put the siren on? It’s not like people
need to leap out of the way of your
speeding vehicle.

You might also want to avoid using
the port-a-potties. Those "mobile johns
were simply just foul. As one friend told
me, the key to using them is to get in line
twenty minutes before you actually have
to go and to not touch anything.

I suppose you could always go the
alternate route and pop a squat or whip it
out, whatever the case may be, but I really
don’t suggest that. It’s a little rude and
nobody is interested in witnessing it.

Also, you’ll want to avoid falling
in the mud. I don’t know how many people
I saw their feet go out from under them
and landing in a big pile of muck.

It’s one thing to have it covering

your feet (kudos to the girls in boots — that
was a wise choice); it’s another to have it
all down the back of your seersucker suit.
And we all know how much I love my
seersucker, it’s a crime to get it covered in
mud! I suppose I would have arrested that
guy too.
p And make sure you have a ride
home. You don’t want to be the random
guy on the sorority bus. It gets kind of
crazy and puts you in an awkward position,
but at least you get to meet some nice
ladies.

And speaking of rides, the
appropriate car, if you drive yourself, is
not a Porsche. Yeah, it’s a nice car, but
it’s almost deﬁnitely going to get stuck in
the mud, and you can’t pop open the trunk
and generously serve alcohol to smiling,
big-hatted, Lily-wearing girls!

Because we all know that Foxfields
is most certainly not about the races.

Trout shares his secret with 

girls: A 1993 Station Wagon

The Fisherman says that girls dig a good ride like his

By Hugh Trout
THE FISHERMAN

You might catch me thuggin’ on
the streets or hustling in da clubs, but
I’m never too far away from my sweet
ride: a brown, 1993 Volvo station
wagon.

Yeah, Iknow. . .I’m rad. I chose
the Volvo over other cars for various
reasons. First, while some guys think
that girls go after a guy who has a sense
of fun or adventure, I know what the
ladies are really looking for:
transportation in unparalleled safety.

That’s right, while some guys
talk game about how fast they can get
to 60 or great steering,’I’ve got
something that makes all the girls get
all hot and bothered: side air bags and
well-designed seat belts.

Other cars may scream “slick”
or “sporty”; my ride says “hey
girls. . .tliis guy likes to play it safe and
use his turn signals even in parking
lots.” I opted for the station wagon
because I said to myself, “Hey Hugh,
if your gonna get such a dope ride,
might as well make room for all the
women that are going to be trying to
grab a piece of the hotness of the car
and yourself.”

Darrin Fm sweet.

But that’s just one part of the
look. What good is a Volvo without
the hot tunes? No good Hugh, is what
your probably thinking. '

Don’t worry reader, I’ ve got this
music thing on lock down. First of
all, coming from D.C. I hear a lot of

While some guys talk game abouthow fast
they can get to 60 or great steering,

I ’ve got something that makes all the girls ,,
get all hot and bothered: side air bags

and well—designed seat belts.

 «
Y

rap (and Go Go...but tlrat’s a bit outof
place if your not actually at a Go Go) and
hip-hop, so I know what is legit as oppose
to what is just top 40 crap that is only
listened in suburbia.

So let’s start outwith the hardcore
stuff that only true insiders know about.
First off, there is the newest and hardest
album yet from Will Smith, Lost and
Found.

While many may think that the most
dangerous rival to 50 Cent is Jadakiss, in
fact its Will Smith. Will Smith is so street
that I am going to stop talking about him '
out of fear of retaliation.

However, when I’m cruising the
streets I love to keep it real with Lost and
Found or even some of the old school
stuff, Willenium and Big Willie Style.

When I’ve got a lady in the car, I
like to kick things a little bit differently.
Some good National Public Radio is
always a good way to say, “Hey, I want to
set the mood but keep up with current
events”. The NPR is what I like to call
“The Deal Sealer” when a girl is riding
with me it drives them crazy.

Sometimes on a date I like to drive
girls to some amazing view,‘crank open
my manual sunroof and start talking some

deep philosophical topic that I saw on
Saved By the Bell.

Yeah, I’m awesome to the max.

Ifl feel like things are going to get
a little crazy, I like to keep some peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches and a soccer‘
ball in the back just to complete the whole
soccer-mom look. And you may feel like
I’m the only guy on the street who rocks
it Volvo style (I’ve got more game than
Milton Bradley), but I heard through the
grapevine that Colin Farrell and the entire
cast of The O.C. drives Volvos.

I’m not sayin’ I know that for sure, ~
I’m just saying that its word on the street
that Volvos are very Hollywood right
now...so hot.

Some other good additions to those
who are working the Volvo game would _)
be a farmy pack (wear it off to the side for
a more-hip look) or if you have some four
or ﬁve—year—o1d that you can put in the
back seat it completes the whole gangsta
look. ‘Y

Let me tell you, there is nothing
more hood than a brown Volvo wagon
with kids in the back. Well, that’s all for
this week, hope everyone had a blast at 9
Foxfields and remember to keep on I
keepin’ on.

Show “Sex and The City” '
teaches lessons to women ’

Even after ﬁnal episode, women can still learn valuable
lessons about dating and love from DVD set

By Kristine Early
THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL

‘This article is for my fellow
ladies.
Sex and the City... It has fashion.
It has hot men (Aidan, I want your
babies). It has the streets, clubs, cafes
of NYC, and it has heart.

Why am I writing about a0

television show long after its final
episode reduced millions of us gals
(and Stanford fans) to tears? Because
some things never get old.

Sex and the City broke
boundaries. It took risks. It opened the
door for shows like the OC and
Desperate Housewives. It redefined
good television. So what if Sarah
Jessica Parker sold out and signed a
contract with Gap as the final credits
rolled? I for one will never stop
worshiping Carrie Bradshaw’s
collection of Manolo Blahniks and
Dolce and Gabbana heels. '

Every one of us dreams of being
the outgoing, conﬁdent Samantha, the
innocent, extremely sratty Charlotte or

‘ the ill—dressed New York columnist

herself. (Poor Miranda. No one wants
to be ugly and bitter). We all wish for
a man as sweet as Steve, as dedicated
and as GORGEOUS as Smith Jerrod
and as mysterious as Mr. Big. And we
all lust after Charlotte’s wardrobe (or
the real risk-takers among us:
Samantlia’s).

Not only is Sex and the City
entertaining, capturing our
imaginations and filling our heads with
unattainable goals (Face it: Smith

‘Y;
Don’t complain about his inability ‘_
to break up with you face-to—face.
Feel lucky. He could have dumped
you via a post—it—note a la Burger. *

Jarrod doesn’t exist), it’s also a valuable
educational tool. Since not everyone has
the time and dedication to be a true S &
the C fan like your favorite Ring Tum Phi
writer (You can admit it. I won’t tell. I
prornise.), I have taken it on myself to
watch all six seasons and compile their
most important lessons for you:

1) Your boyfriend just called to tell
you “it’s not you; it’s me?” Don’t complain
about his inability to break up with you
face-to—face. Feel lucky. He could have
dumped you via a post-it-note a la Burger.

_2) Every single girl needs an
Anthony or a Stanford. A man who likes
to shop and can always be called upon last
minute to escort you on a date
frmction. . .what more could you ask for?

3) There are plenty of ﬁsh and the
sea. They may be mental cases (Ray King),
arrogant assholes (Petrovsky), or cheats
(Richard), but there are plenty of ‘em out
there. And once and awhile you might get
lucky and find a bass worth keeping
(Steve).

4) Pay special attention to this one:
Marrying for money and status can
backfire (Charlotte to Trey). Mr.
Moneybags may have an overbearing and
intrusive mother. Or have ED. I guess Trey
never saw Bob Dole’s ads...

5) Occasionally love comes in a

unique package. Harry may be short, fat,
and bald, but he’s adorable all the same.

6) Males are confusing. But it’s"
always fun to meet at the local bar or
coffee shop with a group of friends and
attempt to ﬁgure them out.

7) As Miranda so adequately
demonstrates, in the end, all a girl needs
is cake and TiVo.

8) You can recover from any
embarrassing situation, so long as you
remain confident. You can even survive-Y
tripping on a runway.

9) Things don’t always happen as
planned (Miranda’s pregnancy,
Samantha’s bout with cancer). But in the
end, everything will turn out. - t’

10) Real friends will always be
there for you. When you get cheated on
(Samantha). When you go through a
divorce (Charlotte). When you need to
complain about last night’s date.

11) Try everything once. Like
seducing an Amish artist (Char). After all,
you only have one life to live.

12) Nothing is better than a night _p
out with friends. Take this one to heart?’
Next Friday evening, invite pals over, plop
down in front of the TV with cocktails,
and enjoy learning life’s lessons from a
few of the most talented actresses in town
It’s almost as fun as a sketchy DJ party.

 

" x

A

I32

#552.
V/
W‘:

7 -755

xi

. 7:’?
<:..- 2...

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RINCi=TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2005

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

sruineurs SINCE

1897

/0 '.~‘
VOLUME Gil-‘H-I;-NUMBER 237  ;.

WHAT’ INSIDE.

I Baseball fans face an abrupt
and untimely end... to their favorite
season, that is. Check out page 2 for
more details.

HOT TICKET

   

-' I ..-a
Lady of the Rings
Winner of four Academy Awards this
year (Best Picture, Best Actress

' Hilary Swank, Best Supporting Actor

Morgan Freeman, and Best Director
cum Eastwood), “Million Dollar
Baby” comes to the Commons
theater on Mon. May 9 at 7 p.m., and
at 9:30 p.m. on Tues. May 10, Wed.
May 11, and Thurs. May 12.

Sex studies

The cast is great, the plot is
provocative. Liam Neeson, Laura
Linney, Chris O’Donnell, John
Lithgow, and Oliver Platt tell the
story of a man who led a cultural
revolution when he began studying
sex in a culture where it’s a quite
tabboo topic. “Kinsey” runs at 7:30
p.m. in the Commons theater on Fri.
May 13 and Sat. May 14.

NEW SERIES I

Burr Datz and the Ofﬁce of
Leadership Development is hosting a
Lessons in Leadership Series this
spring term. Captain Robert C.
Peniston, U.S. Navy (Ret.) will
reﬂect on his leadership Tuesday,
May 10. .

Tuesday, May 17 Jerry Darrell,
who has served at the Lexington/
Rockbridge County United Way
Chairperson and_ originated
LipSynch to beneﬁt SARAH will
speak.

Dr. Robert Sinskey, a 1943
Washington and Lee graduate and
pioneer in intraocular lens surgery
will speak May 22.

Karen Cohen, a professional
business and performance coach and
yoga teacher will conclude the series.

All of these seminars will take
place in Room 214 of the Elrod
Commons at 6:30.

SIMPLE LIFE

 

Stay grounded

So we’ve all heard the myth of
spring term, that it’s easy and you
sleep late and classes aren’t tough
in the least. Note our choice of

words: it’s a myth. Follow our tips
to keep your relaxing spring term
from becoming a cluttered mess of
over-commitment,

I Go running. It keeps your
natural endorphins high, increasing
mood and preparing your physique
for the beach this summer.

I Lots of reading for class?
Bring it outside and take advantage
of the gorgeous weather! And ﬁnd
something you love doing to bring
along as well, like a good book,
some mellow tunes on your iPod,
or a sketchbook. That way you
won’t get too bogged down in the
“supposed to.”

I Take it easy on the liver.
Hangovers certainly won’t help you
wake up feeling fresh and ready to
face a long and productive day.

I Go ahead and start spring
cleaning. You’ll feel better and
work more efﬁciently when you’re
organized.

N ader’s talk ﬁlls Lee Chapel  

Nader criticizes two-party system, apathy of young people, least—worst voting

By Erin Julius
EDITOR-|,N-CHIEF

Former Presidential nominee
and longtime activist Ralph Nader visited
Washington and Lee Thursday. Brought
in by Contact for a speaking fee of
$17,000, Nader opened his visit with a
meeting with students, dinner with Contact
and a press conference with local media.

Nader immediately localized his
visit by issuing a warning in his press
conference about two proposed nuclear
power plants in Virginia, near Lake Anna,
calling nuclear power, “a technology
fraught with exorbitant costs, uncertainties
and the potential of catastrophic risks.” '

He also said that such power plants
pose a national security risk, as they are
very vulnerable targets, and there is no

4 place to put the waste.

Nader concluded his warning about
nuclear power with a bit of humor, calling
nuclear energy, “a very very complicated
way to boil water.”

Later in the press conference,

L Nader implored Washington and Lee

alumnus Senator John Warner to play a
more important role in Congress, “Warner
knows the enormous waste and fraud. . .in
the budget,” he send. “He’s got to play a
much more important role. . .he’s near the
end of his career and that’s when he can
demonstrate his greatest courage,” Nader
said.
As for his own political career,
.Nader said it was too early to decide
whether or not he will run in the 2008
Presidential race, but said he is, “very
committed to trying to break up the two-
party duopoly. . .we need more voices and
, choices,” he said.
In Lee Chapel, Nader spoke to a
gathering of about 400 students,
professors and local citizens. Speaking

STEVEN MARINOS / PHOTO EDITOR

“They have become very good, these Democrats,
at electing very bad Republicans.”

 .

against the two-party system, Nader said,
“we have allowed our government to be
taken over more and more by large
multinational corporations. . .Mr. Bush has
41 corporate executives that have taken
high government posts.”
Nader, asked his audience to,
“look at what we"re losing” to the
corporations. He cited ﬁgures, saying that
though the economy has doubled and
production per worker has doubled, the
majority of workers are making less and
working longer hours than in 1973.
“I H He also asked his audience to
demand more from government. “We

have to raise our expectation
levels. . .become much more demanding of
our political representatives,” he said.
Nader also lamented the fact that young

people do not vote, saying he remembered

working hard to lower the voting age to
18, and the only reward was 30 percent
voter participation for that age level.

‘‘It’s time to make apathy
boring,” he said.

Poverty was a central point in
speech. Nader noted that child poverty
has risen for the past four to ﬁve years and
criticized the deﬁnition of poverty. “The

deﬁnition of poverty is ridiculous...it is .

 

19,000 for a family of four, it should be
40,000 for a family of four——look at the
cost of healthcare.”

Insitituting a standard process for
running for federal office was another
issue Nader emphasized. “If they think
you’re going to get any signiﬁcant number
of votes they tie you up in knots,” he said.
Nader then described obstacles to
Presidential candidacy he had
encountered, including the use of a
speciﬁc color paper and being forbidden
to obtain signatures for his petition in
public parks.

Circling back around to his
criticism of the two-party system, Nader
said currently people vote in a least—worst
situation. “We have to get over this idea
of least-worst voting,” he said. “It assues
that ever four years the parties will be
worse...the candidates take you for
granted.”

Nader then garnered laughs when
he called President Bush, “a corporation
disguised as a human being.”

Nader also criticized Democrats.
“The one thing they [Democrats] don’t
want is competition. That’s why they
focus on the Green Party challenge. . .they
have become very good, these Democrats,
at electing very bad Republicans.”

Discussing the war in Iraq at the
end of his speech, Nader again tied the
issue into criticism of the two-party
system, “in our country you can come in
second and still be our President——that’s
why we lecture the rest of the world about
democracy,” he said.

Nader addressed his last remarks
to the students in his audience. “You are
entering your most creative decade——this
is the decade you’re going to have a
breakthrough about how you’ll make your
mark. Don’t drift through your twenties——
look at them as precious years.”

STEVEN MAFIINOS / PHOTO EDITOR

The morale was high when W&L’s School of Law commenced
Saturday at 11 a.m. The Honorable Roger L. Gregory, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit was the speaker, marking the
School of Law’s 150th Commencement ceremony.

 

(DB2 promotes diversity

By Leah Kershaw
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

W&L’s newest fraternity, Phi Beta
Sigma Fraternity, Inc., is eager to get
involved in the Lexington community.

Doug Allen, the vice president of
W&L’s Beta Beta Nu chapter of Phi Beta
Sigma Fraternity, Inc said that one of the
chapter’s current goals is to “gain the
reputation as a fraternity that is involved
in the community.” The chapter plans to
participate in Nabors Service Day and
other local philanthropic events before the
end of the school year, said Allen.

Founded in 1914 at Howard
University, Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc.
is centered on the principles of
brotherhood, service and. scholarship.

Dean Futrell, W&L’s dean of
minority affairs, said the process of
bringing another fraternity to campus
began a year and a half ago. Last fall a
brother of Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc.
ask about the possibility of starting a
chapter at W&L, said Futrell.

Keith Cook, a member of Phi Beta

Sigma Fraternity, Inc., held an information
session for W&L men who might be
interested in joining the fraternity. All six
men who came to the information session
joined the fraternity, said Futrell.

The Beta Beta Nu chapter of Phi
Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. officially
announced its presence to the W&L
community with a Probate Show April 215‘.
The show, created by the new brothers,
featured stepping because every member_
of the chapter is involved with music.

Since the Probate show, the chapter
has been busy taking care of the
administrative duties that come with a new
chapter and making sure that all IFC
guidelines are being followed, said Allen.

Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc.
brings diversity to the fraternity system at
W&L, said Allen. “We promote diversity
by bringing a more diverse group of people
to the IFC,” said Allen.

Although it was founded as a
historically black fraternity, Phi Beta
Sigma Fraternity, Inc. welcomes people of
all races. “We want to get as many
interested pledges as possible,” said Allen.

Students speak: KEWL supports female faculty

Campus women’s group responds to last week’s faculty letter regarding hiring

To the University Community,

KEWL, Washington and Lee’s
student organization promoting female
leadership, would like to express our
support for the faculty position regarding
the “glass ceiling in W&L administration”.
Attending a school that purports to value
student input and leadership, we would
like to convey our concerns regarding the
discrimination experienced by women at
W&L in terms of our mission statement.

Knowledge. One of the most
important qualities of any effective leader
is the ability to compile and disseminate
knowledge freely. We feel that the current
administration has not done this. Students
generally know little about how the
adriiinistration is structured and what the
administration does. How many students
know that the search for the new Dean of
the College came down to Interim Dean
Jeanine Stewart and one other candidate?
How many students know the

qualifications of each candidate and how
the “winning” candidate was chosen‘?
Admittedly it is the students’ responsibility
to actively seek this information, but it also
the adrninistration’s duty to communicate
its practices more clearly. Members of
W&L’s student body need an
administration that they can trust to keep
them informed.

Empowering. An effective leader
empowers others. A Dean should inspire
faculty and students with his or her
willingness to listen to criticisms as well
as praise, and to work toward positive
change. The dean might not have a lot of
direct contact with students, but he or she
has a big inﬂuence on curriculum and on
faculty hiring and retention. Dean
Stewart’s esteem for the faculty and
students of this university fostered an
environment of empowerment and respect.

Members of W&L’s student body need an '

administration that empowers others.
Women. W&L is making great

strides. The class of 2006 was the first
class to reach 50% female enrollment.
There has been an increase in the hiring
of women and minority professors as well
as a diversification of the Student Life
staff, with Dean Watkins as head of
Student Life. However promising, we are
not yet ﬁnished. W&L still lags behind
other schools in the percentage of women
and minority faculty. Sadly, women have
not yet made it to the top of the staircase;
there are no women in permanent senior
positions in the W&L administration. A
little striking, isn’t it? Members of W&L’s
student body need an administration
composed of the best candidates for every
position, not just the best male candidates.

, Leaders. We call for the
administration to demonstrate their
leadership. We call for them to lead by
educating themselves on the issues
important to this campus, then dispersing
this knowledge and knowledge of the
activities of the administration to the

community at large. We call for them to
empower faculty and students to speak up
about controversial issues on campus and
for the administration to listen to those
voices. We call for them to take on the
“Statement of Diversity” adopted by the
Board of Trustees and welcome women
into the upper echelons of the
administration. Members of the student
body call for the administration of W&L
to lead.

We are not expecting diversity
overnight. Nonetheless we feel that the
rejection of Interim Dean Jeanine
Stewart’s candidacy for the position of
Dean of the College marks a large step
backward for Washington and Lee. We
ask that the policies and practices of the
administration be examined and held
accountable to the approved initiatives of
the Board, and that these practices reﬂect
the interests and input of the faculty and
students.

The Members of KEWL

\l'!\.”i'i"‘-‘J ‘l

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

SIl0llS

 

MONDAY. MAY 9. 2005

THIS WEEK

FRlDAY,MAY14
-Women’s Lax NCAA’s TBA

SATl.BDAY,MAY15
-Women’s Lax at NCAA’s TBA

SPORTS BRIEFS

W&LWomen’sTennlsDeleals
CMU, 5-0, in NCAA2nd Round
(5/3)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team defeated l5th- I
ranked Carnegie Mellon, 5-0, on
Sunday to advanced to the NCAA
Division III Nationals held at
Kalamazoo College on May 18-23.

W&L Men’sTennis Fallsto
Emory, 4-0 in NCAA2nd Round
(5/3)

The 13th-ranked Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team fell to second-
ranked Emory University, 4-0, on
Sunday in the second round of the
NCAA Division III Tournament

 

FourW&LBaseball Players
NamedtoAl|-ODACTa'n(5/4)
The Washington and Lee baseball
team had four players named to the
All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Team. Sophomore second
baseman David Miller (Oak Hill, Va./
Oakton) and sophomore designated
hitter Jordan Wesley (Winston-Salem,
N .C./R.J . Reynolds) earned first team
honors, while senior catcher Zach
Bausch (Vienna, Va./McLean) and
junior first baseman Taylor
McConnell (Vestal, N .Y.Nestal) were
named to the second team.

 

FourGeneralsNamedlsoAll-
ODAC Men’s LacrosseTeam (5/4)

Four members of the Washington and
Lee men’s lacrosse team have been
named to the All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference team which was
released on Wednesday morning.

If you are
interested in
writing sports
for the Phi, email
Marshall Rule at

rulep@wlu.edu

Baseball season ends earl

Generals last two games cancelled due to weather, including Senior Nig t p

By Kathryn Krall
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

After a long season full of dazzling
highlights and record-setting play, the
Washington and Lee baseball team ended
their season on a low note with the
cancellation of the last two games.

Because of a weather forecast that
threatened rain, the games were cancelled,
even though the days turned out to be ﬁne.

The team had looked forward to
competing against St. Mary’s and #5
ranked Mary Washington.

The elimination of these games
from the schedule was especially
disappointing to the seniors, who never
had Senior Night, or even got to play a
“last game.” .

_ Senior Chris Chaplin, said, “It’s
about the worst way I can think to end a
season and a career. We were all pumped
up to be playing the #5 team in the nation
and when we heard theircoach had

Second rounds

ByMarshall Rule

MANAGING EDITOR

Both General tennis teams
competed in the National Tournament this
weekend on Washington and Lee’s home
courts.

The women’s teams advanced to the
National Championship by defeating
twenty-fifth ranked Swarthmore 9-0 on
Saturday.

The third ranked Generalsthen
defeated Carnegie Mellon on Sunday 5-
O. The National Championship will be
held at Kalamazoo College in Michigan
on May 18-23.

The men’s team finished up their
season after falling to second ranked
Emory on Sunday. .

On Saturday, they were able to
defeat Carnegie Mellon in the first round
4-1. Top Generals players Paul McClure

cancelled it, and on such a nice day, we
were all shocked.”

Senior catcher Zach Bausch had a
feeling that the games were going to be
cancelled, “Part of me knew after
Wednesday that I had played my last
game”. .

Despite the disappointment of the
last games, the season was very
successful. The team posted an overall
record of 27 wins and 13 losses, recording
a new record for wins in a season. Their
achievements were due in part to the
efforts of six graduating seniors, each of
which played an essential role, whether it
was pitching, catching, fielding, or
providing leadership on and off the ﬁeld.

Adam Bullock, Warren Hunter,
Zack Bausch, Ken Hackman, Chris
Chaplin, and Brian Higgins have played
their final games for the Generals.

Brian Higgins reﬂected on what he
will miss about W&L baseball, “I’ll miss
just about everything about playing, but

of tennis ﬁnish

and David Shay won their matches against
Carnegie Mellon.

Emory won each of the three men’s
matches that were played on Sunday
defeating Jon Malooly 7-6, 6-0, Jordan
Eichenberger 6-3,6-2, and Charles
Anderson 6-1, 6-0.

In men’s doubles the duo of
McClure and Shay lost 8-1 while Jeff Lusk
and Eichenberger were defeated 8-5.

In women’s doubles matches
Lindsay Hagerman and Ginny Wortham
defeated Mona Iyer and of Carnegie
Mellon 8-1. X

 Meanwhile Emily Applegate and
Kristen McC1ung won their match 8-2,
and Lora Fanis and Leah Weston defeated
their opponents 8-4.

Only two women’s singles matches
were played. Applegate won her match
6-0,6-1.

Weston also won in straight sets
over her opponent 6-1, 6-0.

OFF TO THE TOURNAMEN

SP(F'|'SN=ORN|ATKX‘l

OnFnday,May14theGeneralsWornen’sLacrosseteamheadstotheNCAA

especially the team atmosphere. We were
lucky to have a very close team. The time
spent on the bus, in the locker room and
at team dinners was priceless.”

Chris Chaplin could not imagine
life without the sport: “The hardest thing
I think will be next year when spring rolls
around and for the first time in 15 years I
won’t be getting ready for‘ baseball.”

These players have given so much
of themselves to this sport, pouring in
hours and hours of hard work that has
taken a toll on their bodies.

Bausch said thatithere is one thing
that he will not miss: “The pain. Taking
stairs slowly because the cartilage in my
knees is wearing down. Wincing every
time my arm comes around to throw a ball.
Counting the welts on my arm from balls
in the dirt I stopped. I won’t miss any of
that.”

Chaplin remarked that although
baseball was not always easy, he would
miss the entire experience: “I think I’ll end

up missing even the down times.”

Although every athletic season is
full of ups and downs, the seniors of this
team worked hard to ensure that the
highlights far outnumbered the
disappointments. '

They provided an environment that
required hard work and serious
competition, but also fostered teamwork
and friendships.

Chris Chaplin says he will always
remember “having a great time playing
baseball here for four years because of the
atmosphere created by the coaches and
players— we were intense when we needed
to be but at the same time no one ever took
themselves too seriously- it was a great
time and a great experience.”

Even though they never got a Senior
Night, the underclassmen on the team, the
coach, and all W&L baseball fans
appreciate and admire the hard work,
competitiveness, and skill of the six
graduating players.

Four ax p ayers
make al —conference

Sports Release
SPORTS INFORMATION

Four members of the Washington
and Lee men’s lacrosse team have been
named to the All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference team which was released on
Wednesday morning.

Senior attackman Gavin Molinelli
(Northport, N .Y./Northport) and senior
defenseman Eric Koch (Boonton
Township, N.J./Mountain Lakes) were
both named to the first team, while senior
midfielder Adam Chesbrough (Haverford,
Pa./Haniton) and sophomore goalie Chris
Lalli (Cranbury, N.J./Princeton) were
named to the honorable mention squad.

Molinelli garnered first team
accolades for the second straight year after
leading the Generals in scoring with 32
points on 15 goals and 17 assists. An
Honorable Mention All-America selection
last season, Molinelli has totaled 159
career points on 66 goals and 93 assists.
His point total ranks 13th all-time at W&L,
while his assist total ranks sixth all-time.

Koch was named to the ﬁrst team
for the first time in his career after

receiving second team laurels a season
ago. He started all 14 games in 2005,
scoring one goal and picking up 21 ground
balls. For his career, he played in 51
games, tallying two goals and collecting
71 ground balls. More importantly, he has
been a mainstay on a W&L defensive
squad that has consistently ranked among
the top in Division H1 in scoring defense
during his career.

Chesbrough gamered honorable
mention honors as the team’s faceoff
specialist. He tallied two goals and one
assist, and won 114-of-196 (.582) faceoffs
in 2005. For his career, Chesbrough won
over 57 percent of his faceoffs, picked up
170 ground balls, and registered 10 points
on four goals and six assists.

Lalli was named to the honorable
mention squad in his ﬁrst season as a
starter. He started all 14 games in goal and
stopped 60.5 percent of shots faced, while
allowing an average of just 7.46 goals per
game.

Washington and Lee finished the
2005 campaign with a 9-5 overall record,
4-2 in the ODAC, and a No. 21 ranking in
Division IH.

Ernst &Young

Meet Employer Representatives

Dave Levinson ’00 and Scott Meister ‘O1

TUESDAY, MAY 10 .

Informal Question &Answer Session

2:00 — 4:00 pm

Elrod Commons Living Room
Talk to alumni who have “been there”.
Bring ‘your resume and ask questions about

the interviewing process.

E&Y Information Session 7:00 — 8:00 pm

Elrod Commons, Room 345
Learn about the exciting opportunities that

Ernst & Young has to offer

toumament. Led bysenior Kilt Murphey(above)and Freshman goaliesarah
‘ﬁlbortheGenerals hopeto oontinueto improveonlheiralready impressive14-3
reoord(8-Ointheoonference). Bydefeating Randolph Maoon6-5onApril24lhe
Ga1eralswereab|etowinmeirmirdsuaigmconfera1cechampbnship.A1ter
falling behindearly5-2 Washington and Leewasableto rally backtosoorefour
unanswered goals. Murphey hadthreegoals inlhegameandTilbortallied
sevensaves. 1'hemen’s lacrosseteamfelItoLynchburg10-6 intheODAC
tournament in their lastgame. meyﬁnishedtheseason 9-5.

BUSINESS ATTIRE
‘WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREER©S-ERVICES

careers @ wlu.edu 45 8-8595 http://careers.wlu.edu 

 

5.

Y

(I

MONDAY,MAY 9, 2005

IIIIIIIIIIIIS

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

STAFF EDITORIAL

Contact: Where are
the female speakers?

Contact deserves praise for
bringing in a keynote speaker that
enthused students as much as Nader.
After the seventeen speakers Contact
brought in this year, however, one
criticism remains: where were the

. women?

The only female speaker

Contact participated in sponsoring was
Angela Davis, and Dean Futrell’s ofﬁce
footed most of that bill. It is absolutely
negligent that the committee charged
with bringing in well-known and

interesting speakers fails to bring in any

women. When its mission states that,
“Contact attempts to appeal to as many
segments of the student body as

possible” and yet they completely fail to

hire female speakers, Contact is not
fulﬁlling its duty. In fact, according to

its website, Contact has not brought in a

female speaker since 2000/2001.
For planning purposes, it

would be especially appropriate to bring

a female speaker to campus during the
month of March, which is Women’s
History Month.

We know that members of
Contact are aware of this lapse and
would like to sponsor female speakers,
but seem at a loss for possibilities.

We suggest a few possibilities

for female speakers here, and encourage

students to send their own suggestions
into Contact members. Possibilities

include: Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson

Christine Todd Whitman, Maya
Angelou, Senator Elizabeth Dole,
Senator Barbara Boxer, former Illinois
Senator Carol Moseley Braun, Paula
Zahn, Christine Amanpour or war
correspondent Lorna Tychostup,
Condoleezza Rice, Katie Couric, writer
Alice Walker, Olympian Dominique
Dawes, Jessica Lynch.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson takes
a break from the Spring Term high life
long enough to hand down the rise and
fall of a whole lot of stuff

0 Texas

No offense, Texans, but your state
recently did something that has me
unhappy. httpf//www.live-shot.com/
species.shtrnl. That’s right, now you
can hunt animals from your very own
home using a turret you control
online! Thank heaven the great state
of California is here to protect us
from such tomfoolery.

0Texas (again)

And oh yeah, Texans, your legislature
just barmed “sexually suggestive”
cheerleading. I mean, a- They didn’t
define where that line even is, and b-
Doesn’t your legislature have better
things to do?

Oitmerican Public

New poll says that most Americans
believe that “generally speaking,”
Congresspeople act ethically. “Ha!
That’s so funny I forgot to laugh!
Excluding that first ‘ha.’‘’

0 Family Guy
Just while we’re on the topic.

0 Quotesfrom Wednesdayl
Thursdaynigitpariies

Me- “Rough night, huh?”
Anonymous- “When the band starts
playing at 3:30am, you know you’re
going to be in trouble.”

0Runaway Bride

Gotta suck to be the groom, too.

' 0 W&L“"l'raditions”

After June, there will only be one on-
campus class left that ate in Evans D-
Hall and was “hazed” as opposed to
“educated.” Good riddance.

0 KY Derby

That was AMAZING 50-1 and 72-1
horse ﬁnish first and second,
respectively. If you had conﬁdence in
Giacomo and Closing Argument,
respectively, and put down a $2 exacta
bet on them, well....the typical exacta
pays between $100-$200 for a $2 bet.
And this one was $9800.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSI’l'Y

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
A$T.UFEEDITOR

PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITOR

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

QDPY EDITORS

  THE RING-TUM PHI.

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS

MARSHALL RULE
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON
ANNE FINLEY
BREE MELTON
STEVEN MARINOS
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
VANESSA ARNESS
SARAH MURRAY

ﬂ'IeWIg~amH1ispIbisiIedMmdaysdIIIhgiteu1deIgradIaIesdndyear
atwasiingion and Lee University, Lexhglm, Wgnia.
77IeFi‘Ig4imPhisamerIberoi1TIeN|edaBoaId,wrid'IcanbeIead1edat
me<:iaboaId@v»III.ed.I,bIIt'soIhevwis=e'rIdeperIderIt '


Alistbniissiorsmtrstbee-maiedtI)phi@\~Iu.eduoriniI'ieUniversityCeniermaboxby5p.m.
Fridaytoappeariniheiollowirigiweeksediiori.
ﬂIeFIi1g-amﬂiresewesmerigmtoedtstbnissiasbroontemarxilengii.

' ~ -\_gI.et1ersandoo|unrIsdonotrIeoessaIi|yreﬂecttIIeopiI1ionc>f7'heFIhg-tImPhEdtoIiaIBoaId.
\~\_ Advertisingdoesnotreﬂediheopiniorisot Theﬂhg-IImPhiori1sstafi.

Tiiisriﬁapergbsewescxineritootindeﬁniiiasofﬂaelaridotasoerily.

UniversityConrnorsPoom.841 /
WasIi'IgtonandLeeUriveIsity
Lex‘ngIm,V|Ig'ia24450
TeIepmne:(54o)45s4oeo
Fax(54o)45e4os9
Ermi:pIi@Wu.ed.I
SIbscr‘piionrate$40

Faculty right- university
needs female leaders

BVVWIIHEVDIIII‘-‘V

$‘EIAlLY§EAIQ‘G

With the recent decision to hire
Hank Dobin as Dean of the College, a
great deal of discussion has been raised
about the representation of women in
Washington and Lee’s administration.
However, in the heat of debate, we
seem to have forgotten the underlying
principle we are ﬁghting for. Yes, there
is an under—representation of women
at the administrative level. Yes, this fact
does need to change, but this article
seeks to clarify why.

In America, we tend to make
the basic assumption that government
should be reﬂective of society. Thus,
we take this mentality with regards to
the governing of our school. As a result,
we view the under—representation or
complete lack of representation of
many demographics in the
administration to be unacceptable.
However, it must be clear that we do

not seek to create a perfect mirror‘

image administration, for that would
be impossible. What is needed is
simply an administration that is more
generally reﬂective of the student body
as a whole. That being said, omitting a
demographic that comprises
approximately 50% of the student body
is NOT reﬂective.

The justiﬁcation for this need
for change needs to be clariﬁed. Do not
assume that female student’s interests
will be better represented as a result of
increasing the number of women
administrators. University women are
far too diverse a group to paint as a
uniﬁed interest. The focus should not
be on the interests of women (or
minorities, for that matter), but rather

- on the principle that both should

possess equal access in theory and
equal representation in practice.

For a school that is
desperately trying to revamp its image
to be more “minority friendly,” there
is a great need to turn that vision
inward. It is an admirable, even vital,
goal to diversify our student body and
organizations, but it will never be
achieved as long as students must
answer to an administration that is not
itself diverse.

It seems that, in light of this,
minority students attracted to the
academic prestige of W&L would
seriously question the administration’s
depth of commitment to their success
and the continued diversiﬁcation of
W&L. Until we have more female and
minority administrators, and an
environment where faculty feel secure
signing their name to their opinion, the
university’s goal of diversity will only
be lip service.

The rules— sketchiness and
hook-ups at W&L deﬁned

aymarycnlds

II’SbOTYCU.IT‘SNE

Recently a lot of stuff has been
going on. No, I know that you know
that, because everybody does.
Everybody’s heard about everything
you could have heard about. The
appellation of “Washington and Lee
University” is a ﬂagrant misnomer. We
don’t go to college here. We go to a
second high school.

Earlier this year, some boy was
talking to his friend and lamenting a
situation he’d gotten himself into. By
hooking up with this one girl, he now
sees that he cannot hook up with any
of her friends. I think what he said was,
“lvIan, you ‘hook up with one girl in a
sorority and you’re done. You’re done
with that sorority, ‘cause it’s [all her

’ friends] . .  So by that logic, a boy has

approximately ﬁve total hook-ups in
his W&L career. That estimate to me
sounds a little low, so if you rework it,
maybe it’s one per pledge class per
sorority. That ups him to twenty, or 5 a
year. Not to be a pessimist, but that
sounds low to me too. And then factor
into that some more realism; we all
know that different frats hangout with
different srats. I’d say at most, a frat
will hang out with three srats. So there
we knock our number down to twelve
hook-ups per WLU boy, or 3 a year, or

_one a term. And that’s just blatantly

incorrect. Maybe it’s just Walker
Williams bringing that average down,
or maybe my friend was incorrect in
his generalization that one hook-up
kills your chances in the rest of that
srat/srat pledge class. So that leaves

' you with these hook-ups that overlap

and Intertwine and get incredibly
complicated as the years progress.
Everybody knows and accepts —
and hey, even expects — hook-ups to
happen with some regularity. And we
are a community that cares, so we all
want to know what our good friends
did this weekend — or in the case of
Spring Term, any day of the week. And
in my analysis of the players on the
ﬁeld, in my research for this article,
there are pros and cons to this closely
monitored life-style here in at Fishbowl
High...
The only pro I have is knowing
the background of every boy at my high
school since he was born (there’s a
good chance I know, or other people I
know that will tell me so that I will
know, his farni1y’s background and
what his mom did that may or may not

affect his relationships today). And
sure, that might be micromanaging a

I little bit, but there is certainly the

upshot that no one can get away with
dirty laundry for long. So if there’s a
kid that you’re considering for
whatever purpose, you know his
qualiﬁcations. It’s like he’s submitting
a resume. Well, if you recall, he hooked
up with that girl a couple weeks ago
and we all saw what happened to her.
Maybe I should steer clear. His
reputation will always precede him.
And the downside to this is that
this activity feels kind of sick. The fact
that I’m so up in everybody’s business,
that the whole world is, makes me a
little uncomfortable. It’s like reading
the tabloids about your friends. It’s just
weird. And not only that but if you
botch a weekend, if there’s a smear on

your resume, it will reﬂect poorly on,

you as an applicant; like going
bankrupt and falling victim to debt, a
desperate hookup will stick around far
longer than desired.

So the way I see it, there’s no
way to ﬁx this cess pool of a social
scene without transferring to like Tech
or something. And God knows none of
us would ever do that. No, instead we
can only remember my mother’s
“Newspaper Rule" — “everything you
do could be in the newspaper the next
day” (follow up: would you be
comfortable with that?) and live
accordingly. Our other option is to
ignore histories and pasts and stop
gossiping — an idea that I find
fantastical at best. But it is deﬁnitely
important to remember — write this
down — that the things you do tonight
will stick around tomorrow. Moral
hang—over’s bad, sure, but black spot
on resume is worse. As a good friend

_said_ to me yesterday, we go around

doing all this stuff and affecting each
other and weaving these dirty little
webs and you have to remember that.
You have to keep it in mind that your
actions DO and WILL affect other
people, and that you can’t just dismiss
your own transgressions with a smile,
because after the grace period, after
you’ve worn out your welcome and
compiled some signiﬁcant baggage
yourself, it’s going to get heavy enough
to slow you down and you'll start to
lose things, like friends, and people to
make out with. So write on your hand,
NEWSPAPER, because anything you
do, I could write about, and there it
would be, in the Phi on Monday.

Would you be comfortable with
that’? ' "

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

“The only thing better than a beer is two beers.

After two, it just gets really silly.”

-QUO'fEOFTHEWEEKmemeaumsmuayntg¢

MONDAY, MAY 9,‘ 2005

Anderson continues strategic plan review, ﬁnds the good in the task force reports

ByCdeyAnderson

|VCIE3ATE'SM.8&

In my last article, I discussed those
parts of the strategic plan I thought it
would be better off without. This week,
I’m going to talk about parts of the plan
that I thought were particularly good ideas.

The Law School’s task force came
up with the idea of creating a program to
help repay the loans to law graduates who
end up taking relatively low—paying public
interest jobs as public defenders, law
advisors for charitable organizations, and
so on. I like this idea, it’s an affirmative
statement that we’re not afraid to graduate
lawyers who don’t go on to make millions
of dollars with huge firms, and that we
care about contributing to public interest
law.

The C—Scho0l task force came up
with a few great ideas— one was the

Letter to the Editor

adoption of a New York spring term
program for business majors along the
lines of the Washington term that exists
for politics majors. The C-School is also
looking around for more space; among
their options are construction of a new
building, adding on to the current building,
or the annexation of the old co-op and
bookstore by the C—Scho0l. Ifd urge the
University to adopt this last option- while
it will only provide office space (being too
small for C-school labs), space currently
used in Huntley Hall for offices could
easily be repurposed at a low cost (at least
comparatively speaking when you
consider the costs of yet more new
construction).

The Academics task force came up
with the idea of renovation for the
Colonnade and the library. When
professors’ doors are falling off their

hinges due to termites, I can only say that
this idea is long overdue. More
importantly, the Academics people also
recommended a satellite campus in
Washington. This is simply a brilliant idea
that would give students and faculty a
greater chance at D.C. immersion while
also establishing a presence for the
University in the nation’s capital, a
presence that might get us some of that
sweet name recognition.

Student Affairs recommended
separate facilities for club and intramural
sports, facilities that would not be subject
to the “superior needs” of Division IH,
athletics. As the President of Club
Fencing, it would be impossible for me to
understate my appreciation of this
sentiment. Club sports and intramurals
have a place in our University just as
important as Division III teams.

The Communications task force,
which has a few questionable ideas, came
up with a decidedly non-questionable one
to “change the conversation around Robert
E. Lee.” Yes, the man was THE hero of
the Confederacy. That, however, is not
why his name is part of our University.
His name is on this University because of
his exceptional leadership and vision
during his years as President. I need not
remind most readers that he laid the
foundation of the honor system, created
the’ journalism school, and unified the
college with the law school. He was
responsible for turning W&L from just
another college into an exceptional one.
That is why it’s Washington and Lee, and
that is what we should tell people who ask.

The Athletics task force echoed the
idea of providing separate club and
intramural facilities, but they also thought

that the P.E. classes needed review,
including reducing the GE requirement for
Phys Ed. The typical academic class at
W&L (this is just based off my own
experience) meets for three or four hours
a week and is worth three credits. The
typical PE class at W&L (again, based on
my own experience) meets for two hours
a week and is worth one—ﬁfth of one credit.
PE takes up 66% of the time of a typical
academic class (before you count studying,
homework, etc.), yet is only worth 7.5%
of the credit. And to make it worse, you
HAVE to take all ﬁve PEs. Either scrap
the massive number of PE classes we have
to take for general education, or increase
the credit we get for it.

All in all, the strategic plan is mostly
full of solid ideas, but it’s still in need of
considerable review and debate.

Sophomore argues in defense of historically black greek organizations, points out many beneﬁts

Dear Editor,

Over the past several weeks, much
attention has been given to historically
Black Greek letter organizations having a
presence on campus.

Instead of being welcomed with
open arms and mutual respect, as I had
hoped, these organizations have been
faced with skepticism, and a lack of both
respect and understanding.

What is missing in virtually all of
the previously printed articles is factual
information about the very obvious
differences between traditional Greek
letter organizations and historically Black
ones.

Put simply, the reason historically
Black Greek letter organizations exist is
because African Americans were
prohibited from joining traditional
fraternities and sororities. With no other
resort, African Americans grouped
together and created their own Greek
system, based off of the traditional Greek
model but also combined with both
African and African American inﬂuences.

Historically Black Greek
intercollegiate fraternities and sororities
have been existence for almost 100 years,
with the oldest being Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity Incorporated which was
founded in 1906.

African Americans along with many
other ethnic groups are now accepted into
fraternities and sororities that have

traditionally been predominately White,
and those who choose to join enjoy their
membership in these organizations.
However, this does not mean that African
American students should be forced to
give up the Black Greek system that has
developed rich traditions and culture for
nearly a century.

An obvious difference between the
two Greek systems is the importance
community service plays for historically
Black Greek organizations.

Because the organizations were
formed during a time when Blacks were
being systematically disenfranchised, the
organizations also have a deep rooted
commitment to theuplifting of the Black
community.

Both of these goals are achieved a
variety of ways. Many have mentoring
programs, clothing, food and voter
registration drives, and scholarship
programs as well as other projects to meet
their community service requirements.

The organizations stress community
service, usually at the expense of social
events, which also explains why Black
Greek organizations are not preoccupied
with obtaining a communal house.

While Black Greek organizations
do have parties, dances, banquets and
other social events these are usually used
as a way to fundraise in order to fund the
organization’s community service
projects. The parties are quite different
from the ones held by other Greek

organizations. There is usually no alcohol
served as those in attendance usually
prefer dancing to drinking.

The social outlets also allow the
Black Greek organizations to show off
their hard work and dedication to their
organizations.

Another obvious difference of
historically Black Greek is the lack of a
rush process. V

The membership intake process, as
it is called, features a series of
informational meetings where attendees
are given an introduction to the speciﬁc
organization, its current members, as well
as information on the chapter’s programs
and various policies.

Because there is no rush process,
typically only those who are serious about
joining a particular Black Greek
organization show interest and attend the
informational meetings. Many of the
organizations require aspirants to have
obtained a certain number of college
credits before obtaining membership. This
results in a more dedicated membership
pool.

Membership is not limited to
undergraduate students. Graduate
students and adults are able to join
historically Black Greek organizations
through Alumnae Chapters. Because of
this, those who join historically Black

Greek organizations display a unique A

sense of dedication and are members for
life and upon death members obtain a

mons L
Fax— X4059

Write for the Phi!

The Phi is currently seek-
ing writers for news,
opinions, sports, and life.
Interested parties should
contact phi@Wlu.edu

Phi phone- X4060
Ofﬁce— Room 341, Com-

<I><I><I>

   

      
      
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 

   

to it
 
- J)” :_

  
  

Orchardside Yarn Shop

Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
. Raphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 ° 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lmemet accessibility made easy.

__Calforwor'kshop&dssinfonmtlon.

Halfway betwéeit lainglon and Staunton
On 181 / I-64 at exit 205. Raplline 4miIe.t west on
Route 606. Raphine R044 /M/fr/M a working
farm that aim "U-PICK" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

'llres-Satl0:tl)-5:00,Weduntil8:00
m 

   

special posthumous status.

Historically Black Greek letter
organizations, called The Divine Nine, are
also deep rooted in tradition. Each
organization has their own signature
colors, symbols, calls, handshakes and
party walks, each having their own secret
meaning known only to members of that
particular organization.

The sense of tradition also
permeates the membership intake process
where a major component consists of
learning extensive history on the
organization. Each organization has
special ways of honoring their founders
and incorporators, as well has those who
have had major impacts on the
organization’s development.

During the intake process, members
are required to lmow and retain extensive
knowledge of their organization’s history.
These aspects attest to the high amount of
reverence members have for their
respective organizations.

Traditionally, historically Black_

Greek letter organizations also do not fall
under the jurisdiction of the IFC or
Panhellenic Council.

Instead, they follow the guidelines
set forth by the National Pan-Hellenic
Council. Formed in 1930, the NPHC is
composed of the nine Black fraternities
and sororities and according to its website
the organization “promotes interaction
through forums, meetings and other
mediums for the exchange of information

and engages in cooperative programming
and initiatives through various activities
and ftmctions.”

All of these reasons represent how
students could be more attracted to the
historically Black Greek system. “With its
dedication to community service, uplifting
the Black community, emphasis on
Brotherhood and Sisterhood, many of the
principles these organizations espouse are
ones that continue to attract Black students
on majority Black campuses and
predominately White ones alike. .

Upon gaining membership, people
are joined with Martin Luther King Jr,
W.E.B. DuBois, Hattie McDaniel, Medgar
Evers, and other prominent leaders within
the Black community who were also Black
Greeks. Instead of criticizing the
introduction of historically Black Greek
letter organizations on campus, we should
embrace the differences in philosophy
these organizations have.

Black Greeks are not a phenomenon
unique to Washington and Lee; rather the
allure of the Black Greek systems has, and
will continue, to attract members who seek
lifelong membership in an organization
dedicated to the betterment of all mankind.

Sincerely,
Marcas Banks, ‘07

life?
you ﬁnd it.

greater

(540) 864-5750.

Creating solutions, changing lives.
SUIVIIVIER CBIVIP IOBS

Looldng for the best surnrner of your
Easter Seals Virginia can help
We are committed to
helping people vvith disabilities gain
independence.
dedicated. tearn this surnrner at Caxnp
Easter Seals Virginia in Craig County.

We have job openings for camp
~—couEL§é1oi'§""’“ and —- program leaders
(aquatics. horseback riding, music.
nature. sports and more). Room,

board and salary provided.
infonnation, contact Deborah Duerk at
dduerk@va.ea.stersea1s.com
Visit our website to
learn how you can make a djﬂerence.
wvvvv.va.eastersea1s.com

‘ﬁr-A-2-e

Join out

For

01' at

 

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2005

THE RING-TUM PHI

summer madrai
collection.
Jacket $200,
skirt $92. ,

By Bree‘MeIton
ASSISTANT LIFE EDITOR

There I was dressed to the nines in
my black and white gown, standing on the
red carpet, invitation in hand, ready for
Dreaming and Dueling to begin.

It was a full house, and I know
everyone came to see me. I was the star of
the show after all! Nobody asked for my
autograph at the beginning of the show,
but that was alright. I knew that after they
watched the movie, I would be swarmed
by adoring fans. I wish it had occurred to
me to bring a security detail - people as
important as me need bodyguards. I’m
only kidding, of course.

I was dressed in formalwear, as were
many of the other attendees. It wasn’t
required, but many of us who were apart
of the movie thought it would be fun. How
many other occasions to you get to walk
down the red carpet in ball gown and tux?

The entrance to the commons
theatre was packed with people, Lexington
residents and students alike. There were a
couple of photographers snapping pictures
while the movie—goers buzzed in
anticipation.

Then the doors opened and we ﬁled
in. I wasn’t really sure what to expect as
many of the people who had worked on
the movie couldn’t tell me fully what it
was about. I knew that I was in it as a

' "cheerleader, but I didn’t know to what end.

So I waited.

By.Emily Hulen
LAYOUT EDITOR

I find every frat boy sporting it
around campus. I found it rampant in every

store during a recent shopping spree. After '

seeing all this, my mission became quite
clear: to discover why the infamous
madras plaid is making such an explosive
comeback this spring.

The earliest origins of this colorful
plaid can be traced back to the seventeenth
century in Madras, the capital of Tamil
Nadu in India. The city’s famous plaid
fabric, usually used for sarongs, kept their
trade industry aﬂoat when it was first a
British settlement.

But the trend resurfaced in full force
in the 1950s and 1960s, mainly in New
England. And now, the phenomenon has
once again swept the preps of the east
coast.

Prints are big this year, that’s quite
clear — it’s splashed all over Vogue and
Vanity Fair. But madras plaid? I can’t help
thinking that I would basically be donning

a patchwork quilt. That or President
Burish’s notorious jacket...

But Siobhan Gilbride, owner of our
very own Pumpkinseeds, reminds me that
it has very preppy spring look that tends
to look good on everyone.

Her appreciation for the print
shows. It has its own rack full of madras
pieces featured in her store on Main St.

You can also ﬁnd it in Lexington at
The College Town Shop, or elsewhere at
Gap, Ralph Lauren, Banana Republic,
Urban Outfitters, Eddie Bauer, and of
course, J. Crew. Even Oprah gave the print
a thumbs up.

And if seersucker has madeva big
comeback, why shouldn’t madras? It
seems these vintage, aH-American preppy
styles are back with a vengeance.

Paul Wasserman, the director of
merchandising for Haspel, told the
Associated Press that “I think once it
starts, it’s just going to take off. It’s
colorful, you can wear it with T—shirts,
jeans, khakis. It crosses over‘to many
occasions, and it’s very fresh. It hasn’t
been around since the ‘S05-‘60s so it’s
‘new’ to this generation.”

And maybe in 20 years, we’ll all
look back and say, “Oh my gosh, why was
I wearing that outrageous patchwork
quilt?” But hey, it’s a trend, along with
everything'else we’re.sporting these days;
we have to be forgiving.

And besides, give it a few more
years, and I’m betting it’ 11 be back in style.

JCFlEW.COM

Men’s rnadras sportcoat can be found at J. Crew for $228.

lack depth

W&L Theater Dept. ’s ﬁrst ever ﬁlm falls short of expectations

Professor Martinez, the director of
Dreaming and Dueling, climbed the stairs
to the podium and started the film, and
the audience grew quiet. The movie
opened to Pink Floyd playing while two
people clashed swords in a dreamlike
sequence. ’Dreaming while dueling, go
ﬁgure.

It turns out the main character, Joel,
played by Andrew West Lee, has this
fantasy that he’s an eighteenth century

So I came away from I
“Dreaming and Duelling”
wanting more...
m

French swordfighter named Valarian,
defending justice and avenging the honor
of ladies.

His best friend Eric, played by
Michael Wagoner, is in the fencing
program at school along with Joel, and
after an amazing sparring session, Joel
decides to reveal his fantasy to Eric. When
Eric learns of Joel’s secret fantasy, he
wants to be a part of it too.

The love interest of the film is
Louise, played by Sarah Orvin. She is a
beautiful girl disfigured by a purple
birthmark across her face. She is very self-
conscious about it, and yet still attracts the

attention of both Eric and Joel, as well as
jock Skelly, played by John Bamwell.

Over all, I felt the movie had great
potential. My little part as a cheerleader,
and it turns out eye candy, could have had
a little more air time, but I understand. Too
much of a goodthing is not always great.
The storyline was very interesting, but I
felt the length of the movie did not do the
character development justice. There were
some homosexual undertones and many
sexual innuendos. And I felt the ﬁnal ﬁght
scene was a little anticlimactic.

The acting was trite at times, but the
actors were trying to develop so much of
their characters and their relationships in
so short of time, I don’t see how it could
have been any other way.

So I came away from Dreaming and
Dueling wanting more. I wanted more
character development, especially from
Skelly, Louise, and Coach Thorpe. At one
point Coach Thorpe says to Joel, “I’ve
been there.” What was that about? There
was potential for an even deeper
connection between student and teacher, I
felt. And Skelly, coming and apologizing
shows he has so much more to him than
just being a jerk.

Then there are the relationships
between Louise and Eric and Eric and Joel.
They were so intense, and yet that couldn’t
really be explored in the short hour and a
half that the movie ran. And of course, I
would have liked to seen more of myself.
But hey, at least I’m in the credits!

LIFEGUARDIS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier411.com
1_877lSEE POOL

Warning

If you are under 30 or otherwise suffer
from severe Mass Media Syndrome
DO NOT read

Bob Fussell’s (W&L class of ‘64)
MY GREAT LIFE

wvvw.mygreatlife.net

without approval of your mental health provider

  

 

6 - THERNG-TUMPI-"ll

I .

word

 

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2005

By Bree Melton
B R E KA

For the many social events you‘

will have to attend while at W&L, Breka
would like to offer you some advice. First
off, the not so obvious Lee Chapel wear.
I mean, we though it was understood that

- ' guys wear coat and tie and the ladies wear

the equivalent.

But...this does not mean a Lilly
dress. Let’s face it, that’s Foxﬁelds and
lawn party gear and you know that. So
what is appropriate for Lee Chapel,
business meetings, and interviews?

There are these things
called...business clothes — they don’t
show your cleavage, most don’t involve
large ﬂower prints, and they can be
conveniently found at your local Ann

Taylor.

If all else fails, wear black pants and

a button down, and you should own at least

one suiting jacket — it is a staple. And just
a tip: pinstripe can be very slimming.

Now on a less serious note: how

do you read a girl’s agenda. when she’s

out? Is it in her eyes? Oh no, that’s not

the way. You’re not listening to what I

say. If you warma know what she’s gonna

I do, it’s in her clothes.

Yeah, that was cheesy, oh well. So
she told you it’s just a nice night out with
the girls? Enjoy the band, go home, watch
a movie, and go to bed, right? But she’s
in that sparkly top. . .the one that never
fails. . . .she’s got an entirely different
agenda in mind.

You wore a nice pair of jeans, a tank,
and some ﬂats that won’t be ruined by frat
sludge. She’s looking to get some tonight.

‘ And maybe not just on the dance ﬂoor.

Boys are attracted by the sparkly top, but

: then stick around when they notice she’s

got a short skirt and tall heels.
She knows what she’s doing. The

By Marshall Rule
THE POTATO MAN

First off this week, let me start by
giving a shout out to the best looking mom
on campus this weekend. May I just say

. _ it was a pleasure getting to know you and

I look forward to seeing you next time
you’re in town.

You may be a huge fan of mine, but
I am definitely your biggest admirer. The
MILF of the year award has now ofﬁcially
been claimed.

Speaking of mothers, I have learned
some valuable lessons about Mother’s Day

._.this year.

When I was little I used to cut up
little pieces of paper and write chores on
them to give to my mother. You know,
the whole “return this coupon to have me
do the dishes.” Or “this coupon is good
for one big bear hug.”

This gift worked so well that I
continued to do it for way too many years.
When I was eight or nine years old my

‘ mother thought it was cute. ‘But when I

continued doing it until I was 19 it got a
little old according to my mom.
So this year was the first time I

. have actually had to get her a real gift.

Being that Lexington is not exactly a
shopping metropolis, I was forced to be
creative in my gift this time around.

Of course I didn’t realize that

1 Mother’s Day was coming up until about

Wednesday, so I was a little pressed for
time. So I went down to the stores that
she drags me into when she visits me.
After living with her for 20 years, I figured
I would be able to get her something she
would like for the house.

Walking into the stores, it was
easy to ﬁnd many things that would have

I ' I ‘ worked perfectly. As I walked up to the

counter with an armful of little

Fashion this

skirt and heels accentuate her legs, the
push—up bra helps to draw attention to
her...other assets.

But if you do chose this
particular agenda and are successful, how
appropriate are the stilettos the next
morning? You could opt for borrowing his
clothes, but the stilettos make it really
obvious that you’re not just an early
morning jogger.

You could just wear the clothes from
the night before home, but — well, what
seemed like a good choice the night before
(and hey! it worked, maybe it was a good
choice!) now just makes you look like a
hooker.

So maybe you should, instead of
going home with the kid, give him your
number, get his, and plan for a date. Yes a
date.

So what do you wear to said
date? Something you feel comfortable in
and in which you can be yourself. Again,
cleavage is probably not a wise choice, but
do wear a ﬂattering neckline.

Now if you decide you want to take
advantage of the GRC’s date night next
week (ahem, shameless plug) and you
should, where are you two going on this
date?

If it’s Wilson Walker or the
Sheridan, I would suggest wearing a skirt.
Perhaps something_ just above the knees
and a pair of low heels.

If you’re just going to Sweet Things
and the movie, maybe you can get away
with a pair of pants or some nice jeans.
And please make sure your shirt ﬁts. This
means no midriff baring, please. You’re
on a nice respectable date, you should look
the part.

What it all comes down’ to is
what do you want to achieve in life? Do
you want to be a business woman or a
business wife? There’s a lot to be said by
what one wears. So make your choice, set
your goals, and dress the part.

I Another cheap present for
  Mother’s Day from Marshall

knickknacks I was pretty happy with my
selection.

That was, of course, until, the
store owner told me the total. One hundred
and fifty dollars was a little too much for a
bunch of small items, especially when I
had about 15 dollars to my name at the
ﬁme. .

So I slowly eliminated one item
at a time and the total slowly dwindled.
One by one another item was eliminated
until there was only one left, and I realized
that I might be a little too poor to shop in
Lexington. -
I left the boutique with empty
hands and began to brainstorm ideas that I
might be able to afford. Then the words
that every student loves to hear rang
through my head. . .”Swipe it home.”

I quickly found a jacket that she
had been asking me to get her for a long
time and realized I should probably get a
card to go along with it. Yes, I am so cheap
I didn’t even buy the card. Iswiped it
home.

Well, at least I paid for shipping
ri t? Wrong. Thanks to the good folks
at the bookstore they offered to not only
gift wrap it for me, but also toss it in the
mail. So my total cost for this year’s'
Mother’s Day gift.... 37 cents (I mailed
the card separately).

Well, at least it got there in time
right? Wrong again. It seems that it takes

longer than two days to ship something I

across the country.

I guess the only thing that was
good about my present was that it didn’t
involve coupons.

So, Mom, since you are going to
end up paying for your own present and
it’s not even going to get there in time,‘ I
am using my article to wish you Happy
Mother’s Day.

Yes, I have successfully found a
different way to give you another free gift.

Thanks to the».g"ood /folks at the bookstore they‘
oﬁered to not only gift wrap it for me, but also
toss it in the mail. So my total cost for this
year’s Mother’s Day gift. 7 cents

lt’s Pittsnogle time

West Virginia baller Kevin Pittsnogle is ﬁxture of America

ByHughTrout
THE FISHERMAN

It is no secret that this country is
going through some tough times right
now. In fact, it has been a few years of
tough times and as a concerned citizen
I feel obligated to offer a suggestion as
to what could restore the good times
and prosperity we knew in the 90s
(man. . .those Shaq movies were good).

While some may feel that we
must focus on the economy, and others
on social issues, I believe the answer
to all of America’s problems is actually
one man.

Who is this amazing soul who
could heal a nation and solve the issues
that concern every day Americans?
Kevin Pittsnogle. For those who don’t
know who this amazing maverick is,
he is a 6’ll” basketball player from
West Virginia. And his last name is
Pittsnogle. ‘

Now, many may agree that
Pittsnogle is a great guy but for the
wrong reasons. Some will rightly point
out that he took his team much farther
than anyone ever thought they would
go, and drained some nice threes along
the way. This is all true, however,
irrelevant to the discussion at hand.

I There is a more nuanced and
sophisticated point to be made in the

case for him: his last name is Pittsnogle.
That’s amazing. But how can Pittsnogle
help the U.S.A. if he is only some college
player from West Virginia?

Well, turns out he isn’t going to be
one for long. In an act that has the heavens
crying with sheer joy and euphoria, Kevin
Pittsnogle declared for the NBA draft. A
development of this magnitude hasn’t
graced the human race since the discovery
of penicillin.

We will now be able to watch
Pittsnogle in the comfort of our own
homes throughout the entire NBA season.
But more importantly,

I hope, Pittsnogle will enter the
American vocabulary as an everyday
word. The connotations to such a word
are truly endless. For example, a nice shot
on the beer pong table could lead one to
trash talk: “Man, I just Pittsnogled all over
you on that one man”. Or, “I just went
Pittsnogle up in this right therr”.

It could be used as yet another
euphemism for sexual activity: “yeah,
things were going good and then her dad
called and she got all upset over

something. It sucks, too, cause I’m pretty
sure I was gonna get some Pittsnogle that
night”.

It could be a really cool dance like
the raise the roof. Think of it: “yeah man,
we were in this random club and it was so
funny cause Jon was with this really hot
girl and I looked at him and he started
doing the Pittsnogle and I was laughing
‘pretty har ”.

It could be one of those words that
doesn’t really having a definition but in
the context of a conversation everyone
would know what you meant.

“Hey, I think you got a little
Pittsnogle on your tie, there” or “I hate it
when it gets all gray and rainy and
Pittsnogle like this in Lexington”.

A word like Pittsnogle could unite
the American people and help remind us
that while we may have one political
position or another, we all can unite over
the common goal of patriotism and
working to improve this great land of ours.

That, and having fun saying
Pittsnogle.

Who is this amazing soul who could heal a
nation and solve the issues that concern
. every day Americans? Kevin Pittsnogle.

HIT.

hat a great place

     

Kristine explains for the last time why she picked W&L

By Kristine Early
THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL

Because I’ve had to justify
my decision to transfer to Washington
and Lee 1,329 times in the last nine
months (just an approximation), I’ve
had plenty of reason to evaluate just
what makes our school different and
special.

There are a wide variety of things
that separate our wonderful little
university from Amherst and Bates,
from Vanderbilt and Morehouse: the
Honor Code, the exam policy, the
excellent faculty, the Speaking
Tradition (or the myth that is the
Speaking Tradition), the lovely, artsy
town of Lexington, the horse and
carriage tours that pass by the
Colonnade, the close proximity to VMI,
spring term and tadah. . .the DRAMA.

Forget “The Bold and the
Beautiful.” Don’t bother to tune into
“The Young and the Restless.”

Just show up at Washington and
Lee from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m. any Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday for
love, lust, betrayal, and hot, steamy
scenes of passion.

You’ll laugh. You’ll cry. You’ll
pass out under the beer pong table.

Yes, what separates W & L from
William and Mary and from Bowdon,

ladies and gents, is excitement. I

True, there is little to a town with a
population of 6,000: two bars, a few
restaurants appropriate for rush dates and
quick Sunday lunches and some quaint
little shops where one can find X—mas gifts
for Ma and Grams. (Oh, and don’t forget
Wal to the Man. You can frolic through
the aisles for hours if in desperate need of
amusement.)

But despite the fact that LexVegas
isn ’t Las Vegas, we still manage to have a
good time. See, we’re industrious like that.
Look at our SAT scores.

If we can master analogies, surely
we can entertain ourselves. Especially if
handed a case of Natty Lights.

I’ve analyzed the social scene
fairly closely (See, I’m really doing
research when I go out, mommy.) and I
have come to a conclusion: anything and
everything is possible when the lights are
low and the music is pumping.

And that “anything and everything”.
will be the topic of next moming’s 9 a.m.
class. We here at W & L direct, star in,
and produce our own soap opera. And then
we present reruns the next morning.

Think about it. We have fantastic
wardrobes. Our hair is perfectly coifed.
(Coifed! Such a great word! I bet it was
on the SAT.)

Our nails are professionally done.
And everyone has kissed everyone else.
Clearly, we deserve a spot on daytime TV.

Heck, I think if we hire a good
camera crew (Want to strike a deal, Party
Pics?), we’d be up for a Golden Globe.
And hey, I doubt the students at many other
colleges could afford Armani and Versace
to wear down the red carpet.

Yes, I love W & L. The rumor mill
has made us all unfortunate victims at one
time or another. But when the gossip isn’t
mean—spirited and rather the “Well, he was
walking down the street when he heard
sirens and for some reason decided it
would be smart to hide behind the
bushes...” or the “And then she made out
with a roadie thinking it was the lead
singer...” type, well, frankly, the
scandalous stories can be down right
fulﬁlling.

And if recall of last night’s events
doesn‘t secure an avid audience we have
the satisfaction of knowing that once 10
p.m. rolls around again we’ll have a whole
new set of tales to share.

' When I graduate from Washington
and Lee I’ll have more than just a solid
education and a meaningful degree: I’ll
have a treasure chest full of stories.

Not only are we making ridiculous
fools out of ourselves while starring in
“The Lilly and the Polo Shirts,” we’re
making memories. Memories that will last
us a lifetime.

I bet no one at Middlebury has a
story like mine about that time I...

 

