0' U112 iii

A

VOLUME 101, NO..»21'

From Lexington to Maui, thousands of students, faculty and alumni will celebrate as...

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

ng-tum Iﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1999

W&L’s 250*“ year ends with a b

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The culmination of two and a half
centuries of learning, honor and lead-
ership (not to mention khakis, cock-
tail parties and debauchery) is ﬁnally
upon us.

And the banners are back up on

the Colonnade, just in case you’d for-
gotten about it.

The May I National Day of Cel-
ebration will bring an estimated 10,000
students, faculty and alumni together
in spirit (though not in location) to
commemorate Washington and Lee
University’s 250th birthday. A satel-
lite downlink will be beamed to 54 sites
across the nation, from twojumbotron
screens in the tents at the ruins, to
the alumni chapter in Maui, to Spago’s
in Hollywood.

The national satellite broadcast
will begin at 8:30 p.m., and will last
approximately 70 minutes. The show
yvill include segments from the 250th
video, which has been a year and
$180,000 in the making. In addition,
live segments will be interspersed

- from the Lenfest Center, where His-
tory Channel anchor Roger Mudd ’51
and WPVI-TV morning weather an-
chor and reporter Cecily Tynan Bad-
ger ’91 will be co~hosting the show.

The gala itselfwill begin at 6 p.m.,
though students will not be admitted
at the ruins until 7:30 p.m., and will
last until 12:30 a.m. Throughout the
evening, three bands will play at the
ruins, including the swing music of
The Bo Thorpe Orchestra, and 50s’ -
90s’ cover bands Spectrum and

Casper. A cash bar and elegant buf-
fet will also be available.

“They’re serving every possible
food you can imagine — from ostrich
to tortellini,” director of the 250th ob-
servance Neil Penick said.

Organizers are expecting roughly
2,000 people, mainly alumni and their
families, to roll into town for the event.

“By counting the alumni across
the country, we think this will be the
largest alumni gathering ever,” Penick
said, “[with] over 10,000 alumni cel-
ebrating the 250th at once.”

An additional 1,000 students and
faculty are expected, bringing the an-
ticipated grand total to 3,000 people
under the tents at the ruins. Three
enormous tents, covering nearly
90,000 square feet, are being set up
on the athletic fields near the ruins to
handle the crowds.

The cost of tickets for students is
$30 per person, a huge discount off
the normal price of $125, according
to Penick.

“We want students to participate
fully in this grand ﬁnale of the 250th
Anniversary celebration,” Penick
said. _

Ticket sales to students are sub-
stantially behind what organizers ex-
pected, however, as only roughly 250
have been sold thus far. Sentiment
about the gala is mixed among stu-
dents.

Freshman Abby Montgomery
plans on going, though curiosity
seems to b her main motivation.

“I’m pretty sure I’m going to go

SEE ‘GALA’ ON PAGE 2

Students ‘dig’ into
Earth Day concert

I

By Lisa Lin

STAFF WRITER

Bluegrass, reggae and organic soil
capped off a week of Earth Day cel-
ebrations.

Starting last Tuesday, April 20, the
Outing Club sponsored an eclectic
series of events that included every-
thing from a reading of nature poems
at the Ruse to a culminating concert at
Davidson Park featuring the Larry Keel
Experience and Guano Boys.

On Thursday, Larry Keel and the
Guano Boys began performing in
Davidson Park at 3:00 p.m. and de-
lighted a slowly mounting crowd with
their music for about four and a half
hours.

“It’s so exciting to see the commu-
nity come together to celebrate such
an important holiday for the future of
pur planet,” freshman Helen Downes
said about the tumout.

Sophomore Susan Slim agreed.

“The general atmosphere was very
enjoyable-it was a great cause,” Slim

said “It was a good idea, and it very
refreshing to see so many people from
the Lexington community involved. I
hope next year they do it again.”

In addition to the music, several
booths were set up next to the park,
each representing a local group or a
national organization with common
environmental goals. Among the dis-
plays were several local farmers offer-
ing “organic soil,” the US Forest Ser-
vice with informative guides, and the
Lexington Healthy Food store with
vegetarian snacks.

Among other events was a reading
of professor of English Chris Camuto’s
poems. He found inspiration for most
of his pieces from his experiences in
the Smokey Mountains and the Blue
Ridge Mountains. After reading, he
also gave the audience tips on out-
door writing and journal keeping.

The club also planned a hike on
Saturday to the Lexington Reservoir,
a natural site which is currently in dan-
ger of becoming part of a development
project.

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Workers erected three giant tents near the Ruins last week in preparation for the grand ﬁnale of the 250th Celebration. Now
Reunion Weekend will have a circus feel.

Alexander to kick Mock Con off

Presidential candidate will give keynote address Wednesday for Spring Kickoff

By Polly Doig

EXECUTI VE EDITOR

Twenty years ago, Lamar
Alexander hiked more than 1,000
miles across Tennessee in his quest
for that state’s gubernatorial post.

This week, in his new quest for
the presidency, Alexander will stop
off in Lexington as the keynote
speaker for Washington and Lee
University’s Mock Convention
Spring Kickoff.

The former Tenn. governor, and
former U.S. Secretary of Education
will speak Wednesday at 2 p.m. in
front ofLee Chapel.

. ~ 5.2-‘
photo by Emily Barrie

s/Photo Editor

MEMBERS OF THE WINNING TEAM — Kappa Alpha Theta sisters Anna Lowden ‘99 and Heather
Shepard ‘00 join in a Tug O’ War competition during Sigma Chi’s Derby Days, held last week.

“We expect to see a great turnout
of Washington and Lee students, the
southern Virginia community, na-
tional media and alumni from around
the country for this enthusiastic and
educational week,” Mock Con politi-
cal chairman David Dardis said. “The
alumni, faculty and student body are
excited about hosting Lamar
Alexander  one of the top contend-
ers for the Republican presidential
nomination.”

Alexander is widely regarded for
his stances on education, the envi-
ronment and economic development,
as well as for his informal campaign
style.

In addition to Alexander’s
speech, Spring Kickoff will also in-
clude two star-studded panels, and
country singer Willie Nelson, who
will perform Wednesday at 8 p.m. in
the Student Pavilion. Tickets for the
Nelson concert are currently avail-
able and cost $15 for students and
$20 for the general public.

The Presidential Issues Forum
will gather together some of the
country’s top conservative
policymakers in Lee Chapel, Mon-
day evening at 8. The Forum will

feature Republican pollster Whit
Ayres; Terry Jeffrey, editor of Hu-
man Events; Barbara Ledeen, execu-
tive director of the Independent
Women’s Forum; Tod Lindberg,
former editor of The Washington
Times; and chairman ofthe Repub-
lican Leadership Council Mark
Miller.

Some Ofthe nation’s most promi-
nent journalists and political com-
mentators will take part in Mock
Con’s Media Panel Tuesday at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. Participants include
Jim Barnes, chief political correspon-
dent for the National Journal; Charlie
Cook, Ofthe Cook Political Report;

Howard Fineman, chief political cor-
respondentfor Newsweek; Tom

Lamar Alexander

Mattesky, deputy Washington bu-
reau chief for CBS News; Joseph

McQuaid, editor-in-chiefof
the Manchester Union
Leader; and Bill Schneider,
senior political analyst for
CNN.

In addition, several na-
tional media organizations,
including The Washington
Post, CNN, C-SPAN and
MSNBC, have been invited
to cover the kickoff of what
is considered the nation’s
most accurate mock conven-
tion.

W&L’s Mock Con boasts
an incredible 92 percent pre-
diction rate, and has been
correct during 1 I out of the
last 12 conventions. Mock
Con will be held on March 3
and 4, 2000.

CJITP Ring-tum iﬂht

April 26, 1999

OPINION:

Alums reminisce and reprimand

W&LIFE:

Student/ faculty achievers

SPORTS:
ODAC Triple Crowns

LAST WORD:

McManemin takes on Trenchcoats

PAGE 3

PAGES 4-5

PAGES 6-7

PAGE 8

  

 

I
I .
/.,,

PAGE2
4!!‘

THE SHOW
continued from page

check it out,” Montgomery said, “just
to see what it’s like.”

For others, factors like money and
the crowd that will gather will help
make their decisions.

“Actually, I haven’t really thought
about it,” freshman Joey Ajayi said.
“Ifit’sjust going to be a large number
of alumni, I’m not going to go because
thatjust doesn’t sound like fun.”

The celebration weekend ofﬁcially
begins Thursday evening at 8:30 p.m.
with the opening reunion assembly
at the Liberty Hall site. Bestselling au-
thor Tom Wolfe ’5l will deliver the
keynote address for the event, en-
titled, “The end of the century and
the spirit of Washington and Lee.” In
addition, Wolfe will hold a book-sign-

.l'

Generals’,

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

It mayjust be a ﬁeld of dreams.

Though the formal dedication is not
until May 22, the Washington and Lee
baseball team was able to play their
first games on the new Cap’n Dick
Smith Field over break.

The $1.8 million facility features

ing prior to his speech, for his recent
novel “A Man in Full” on Thursday
at 3 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge ofthe
University Center.

Tickets will be available in front of
the Co—op from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m.,
Monday through Wednesday.

Other events:

Friday:

4:30 p.m. -— “A Golden Anniver-
sary: 50 Years of Art at Washington
and Lee,” celebrating the 50th anni-
versary of the art department. duPont
Gallery.

Evening — private barbecues for
the undergraduate and law reunion
classes for years ending in nine and
four since 1949.

 12 iﬂing-tum ﬂirts

8:30 p.m. —— Reunion concert with
entertainment by 1964: The Tribute
and Liquid Pleasure. Liberty Hall.

Saturday:

11 a.m. — Distinguished Alumni
Awards presented to Earle Palmer
Brown ’44, Jorge Estrada ’69 and John
Wolf’69, ’72L. Distinguished Young
Alumni Awards will also be presented
to John Taylor ’84 and Valerie Pierson
’89. Lee Chapel.

12 p.m. - 2 p.m. ——Booksigning fea-
turing Prof. Pamela Simpson, (“Cheap,
Quick and Easy") and Richard
Weaver ‘96, (“Postcard history of Lex-
ington”). University Bookstore.

2 p.m. — 12th Annual Lee-Jack-
son Lacrosse Classic. VMI’s Alumni
Memorial Field.

new diamond shines

permanent seating for 350 spectators
and a 1,056 square foot building which
houses a press box, concession area,
and restrooms. The facility also fea-
tures sunken dugouts with bathrooms,
water fountains, and storage areas,
two enclosed bullpens, a 2,340 square-
foot building with two indoor hitting
cages, and a state-of—the-art public ad-
dress/sound system.

I

weekends

  

\

7
@’
/ 5

Full time work, some

evenings, flexible

schedule. Bonus for
working past Labor
Day!

 

  

The outﬁeld fence measures eight
feet high, except in right ﬁeld where it
towers at 16 feet. The stadium mea-
sures 400 feet to straight-away center,
320 to right, 330 to left, 365 to right
center, and 370 to left center. Also, be-
yond the left-center ﬁeld fence will be
a 36-foot long scoreboard.

Though ﬁnishing touches like fan
seats have yet to be installed before
the dedication, the team is still very
excited about their new home.

“We’re really excited because get-
ting to play the important games to-
wards the end of the season there is
really something in terms of getting us
to the playoffs,” junior Russell Wrenn
said. “We watched it go up all winter. It
was really a tribute to the seniors.”

Athletic Director Mike Walsh, a
former player, coach, and continuously
avid fan, has been instrumental to
bringing the new ﬁeld to campus.

The dedication will feature baseball
great Stan Musial, along with the Ma-

jor League’s executive vice-president
of operations Sandy Alderson.

It’s been an amazing season for this
team, and they’ve certainly proved that
they deserve such a beautiful facility.

  

   

APRIL 26, 1999

Bicenquinquagenary Gala

facts:
The Pond:

— “The Mother of all catering events.” So says Jerry
Darrell, W&L’s longtime director ofdining services.
As a crowd of 3,000 gathers underneath 90,000
square feet oftent, the task of feeding them will fall
on W&L’s dining services staff, who normally take
on an equally daunting 425 hungry students in the d-
hall.

— The May 1 dinner will be only one ofmore than 35
events the catering department will be handling
throughout the course of the weekend.

— Dining services have recruited four colleges’
executive chefs to help W&L’s own Greg Pearce with
the event.

—— The extraordinary menu includes wok, dessert,
pasta and seafood stations, as well as cheese, and
ice and salt sculptures.

The Numbers:

$165,750 — A rough guess at the overall hotel bill
based on an average price of $85 and a two-night
stay. W&L blocked 975 hotel and bed-and-breakfast
rooms from Raphine to Natural Bridge. Now that
those have ﬁlled, an additional 280 rooms have been
blocked in the Roanoke and Staunton areas.

14,000 ~ the number of shrimp to be served at
Saturday night’s dinner.

8,000 — estimated number ofalumni who will be
attending one ofthe satellite showings, not counting
those under the Big Tops.

300 — pounds of Rockbridge County-grown ostrich
meat to be served.

40 — gallons of lite Italian salad dressing to marinate
the food.

1/6 mile — approximate length oftable draping for
the buffet.

Come. r'1+s «Con H4:

 if you var
Jaeo»( rnm{,f_/_/

E-mail General Notes to 
phi@wlu.edu "

Serving in Memory

As a way to recognize Jonathan Nabors, a member of
the class of2002 who was tragically killed in a car accident
on his way back to school from Christmas break, the fresh-
man class will join together on Saturday, May 8 to serve
the community in his name.

The service day, which is organized by the Freshman
Leadership Committee, will begin with the dedication of a
tree and a plaque in memory of Jonathan, followed by a
kickoff brunch in the BGD quad. Participants will have the
opportunity to work with children, animals, and the eld-
erly, according to their preference. The service day will run
from I 1 a.m. until 4 p.m., but participants can work for the
length of time they desire. Those who participate will also
receive a free t-shirt.

The day should prove to be a great experience for the
class, the community, the school, and all for Jonathan, so
don’t miss out!

Wolfe booksigning scheduled

Alumnus Tom Wolfe ’5l will be one of three authors to
hold book-signing events here during Reunion Weekend
from April 29 to May 1.

Wolfe will sign copies ofhis latest novel, A Man in Full,
in the Fairfax Lounge of the University Center from 3 p.m.
to 5 p.m. on Thursday, April 29. Wolfe will also deliverthe
keynote address at the opening reunion assembly on April
29 at 8:30 p.m. The assembly and all ofthe book signings
are open to the public.

Artistic depression explored

On Monday, May 3, the Mental Health Associatiop
and Washington and Lee’s departments of English and
psychology will sponsor two events that explore the con-
troversial connection of artistic temperment to manic-de-
pressive illness.

From 4:30 to 6 p.m., Dr. Julie Jennings will lead a discus-
sion on the role played by manic-depressive illness in the
lives of well-known writers, musicians, and artists. The semi-
nar will meet from 4:30 until 6 p.m. in Room 313,Parmly Hall.

250th is coming

Washington and Lee will have its largest Reunion Week-
end crowd ever as the University continues its 250th anni-
versary celebration.

A gathering of over 3,000 alumni, students, faculty, staff
and guests are expected for Saturday evening’s 250th Na-
tional Celebration Gala near the Liberty Hall Ruins. Three
large tents have been set up to hold the huge crowds.

Call CenterSales Staff Needed

\

and

College & University

summer team in
Williamsburg,
Virginia!

 

Computers, Inc.

"Big Enough to Serve You. Small Enough to Want To."

College & University Computers, Inc. 1781 Jamestown Road

Suite 170 Williamsburg, Virginia 23185

  

 
 

require travel.

Take
phone or-
ders in our
in-bound
call center.

Some positions may

Join the College & University Computers

_r

  
       
 

»~*m

Call Mark
800-695-2995

or email:
:3 mlap1ume@cuc1nc.com
 for information and application.

 

   
    
  
   
  

k

   
    
  
       
    
   
 
    

 
   
   
     
    
      
 

APRIL 26, 1999
A

OPINION

 

PAGE 3

. ' ion
rial
PAGE 3 APRIL 26, 1999

The Phi celebrates the beginning of its l02nd year
with an all-star cast of characters on the editorial board
that should be sure to rub everyone the wrong way!

Polly Doig — batting ﬁrst is this team-leading junior,
g, who assumes the position of executive editor. Having

proven her skills by writing the entire front page by her-

self every week last term, Polly will now simply give death
threats to people who don’t write, having learned that
skill last fall.

Hollister Hovey — the position of associate editor goes

. to this bumed-out ex-executive. Mainly she’s just going

to hang around to laugh at the rest of the staff. She looks

forward to once again having a life. I

,\ Dan Grattan —— junior news editor who, in addition to
being a good writer, also ﬁlls the Phi’s quota for ex-Tri-
dent staffers and frat boys.

Op/Ed editor— is, um, to be determined by Polly after
she ﬁnishes making up songs and giving death threats...

A Frances Groberg —— returning sophomore sports edi-
tor, will balance a normal life with Polly’s abusive and
obnoxious songs. Her friends think Polly’s odd. Hell, we
all think Polly’s odd.

1 Steele Cooper —— the sports gimp, oops, we mean as-
sistant sports editor, is this strapping young freshman.
(Whoa! Phi’s over the frat boy quota! What do we do?!)

,~Elianna Marziani — features editor and one of the

5 only freshman to keep writing for us, so we thought we’d
promote her to a position of responsibility that will quickly
result in burnout.

Ginger Phillips —— sophomore co-features editor cur-
rently living it up in Spain while simultaneously escaping

* the Rockbridge County SWAT team.

Kevin McManemin — junior Last Word extraordinaire
who will once again keep us busy censoring him and writ-
ing apology letters; if the PiKA cook lets him live long

1,,‘ enough.

Heather “Little Mac” McDonald — sophomore copy
editor and ofﬁcial Empress of Excuses, of the official “Uh,
guys, I have to study Chinese” excuse. Someone should
really tell her that she’s majoring in East Asian Studies...

4. Emily Barnes — sophomore photo editor for the up-
coming year. This year she plans to have more camera
slaves, like assistent photo editor, freshman Lisa Lin.

The unsinkable Lionel “Leo” Brown — freshman cir-

A culation director reminds us all that he really doesn’t re-
member much about having Princess Di as his kindergar-
ten teacher back in the lirney land of London. (Leo fulﬁlls
the Phi’s quota for cynical Brits this year. It’s shagarriﬁc!)

Jason Williams — returning freshman business man-

A» ager has fought furiously with the editorial board all year...
to keep us out of debt.

Matt Lorber — freshman returns as ad director, to keep
pounding the pavement in search of ﬁnancial support so
we can continue to print out our little rag.

A All Soydan — freshman online editor sensation, who
is off in Never-Never Land seeking high and low for new
ways to update the Phi Online.

Now if we can just make sure the front page isn’t a

4 rough draﬁ...

Tilt: ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

‘A

8
Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan
W&Life Editors Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
‘ Sports Editor Frances Groberg

Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Senior Editors Erica Prosser
Sarah Meldrum

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

A. . . .

Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
A undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
A otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-

um Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
A/=p:ourt definitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
.4. Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

POINT / COUNTERPOINT

THE 250*“ GALA: BICENQUINQUAGERRIFIC on NOT?

250"‘ celebration the perfect
way to commemorate our
past

I still remember a conversation I had early in my fresh-
man year with a young lady who informed me that she
was accepted at both Washington and Lee and Princeton,
but decided to
come here for

 

   

 

the parties. 4 the LOOIIY B111

They say that  Kevin Mdvhnemin :00
everyone has
their talents,

(British aristocracy excluded) and I think — nay, I know
—— that here at W&L our collective talent is partying. In a
school of 1600 in a town not much bigger, we somehow
manage to throw parties every single weekend. Once a
year we come together to put on Fancy Dress, endlessly
billed in every W&L publication l’ve ever read as our
“$80,000 answer to the prom” and “the biggest social
event in the South.”

Throwing big, ridiculous parties is what we do, and we
do it damn well. We ain’t the brightest group around,
we’re not exactly a sports powerhouse, but I’ll bet you
$20 that we could beat any college twice our size in a
chug-off.

When other schools celebrate their past they do it
quiety, perhaps with a nice reception or a luncheon. When
W&L celebrates its 250'“, circus tents and satellites some-
how get involved. Suddenly the maitre d’ at Spago’s is
telling Steven Spielberg he can’t have his regular table
tonight because it’s reserved for W&L.

The 250"‘ gala this weekend is nothing less than the
embodiment of the very spirit of W&L itself. and I expect

    

 

iuote of the Week:

(I

Do you want some bean-

counter telling you what to
do?

—-— Professo;Jim Raper, referring to C-
school types in his Newspaper Manage-
ment class.

1}

us all to take part in this celebration. This weekend I want
to see every student out there, dressed in their ﬁnest, drunk
off their asses, showing the world how we do things here
in dear ol’ Lex. I want to see every alumni reliving their
college prime — and if it means embarrasing the wife or
losing yourjob, well, damn it, suck it up and show some
school pride.

I want our entire community to come together~— the liberal
professors who constantly whine about how we’re not into
this or that latest P.C. academic fad, the trustees who threaten
the frats with closure for doing exactly what the trustees did
when they went here, the seemingly worthless deans— I want
us all to come together and reﬂect on just what it means to be
a General over a massive game of beer pong. ,

Just remember to lift the toilet seat up before you puke.

250"‘ a perfect waste of good
time and money

The Earth has revolved around the sun 250 times since
Augusta Academy ﬁrst opened its door. 250 years, 25 de-
cades, two-and—a-half centuries, a quarter of a millenium
— use whatever

 

words you want ,,  - -
to describe this  5 M1 Vlda IDCB
man-made inven— '~ 1 Polly Doig ’(X)

  

tion ofthe calen-
dar to describe the passage oftime. The end result is still

 

the same: big deal.

First of all, 250 years ago some guy in another county,
that was not Rockbridge, was busy founding a school
called Augusta Academy. lfyoujump through about 48
hoops and follow the Yellow Brick Road that people
would like to take you down, then we ﬁnally get to Wash-
ington College —- something which is traceable.

Then there’s the fat little tuition hikewe all got this
year. If my $450 were spent in the pursuit of branding
everything from cups to toilet paper with the 250th logo,
then I’m going to writing a strongly worded letter to the
White Star Line.

Moving on to the gala, yes, it’s going to be wonder-
ful. And wow, we’ve got some really cool alumni. And
what could be better than getting sloppy drunk with them?
The Responsibility Symposium... organic chemistry...
Baner discovering your car parked in front of Woods
Creek at 8 a.m....

However, students are being charged $30 to dress up
real pretty and go pick at the leftover ostrich crumbs on
the buffet table that the alumni left us. Drinks are manda-
tory purchases, so if you’re under 21 (like 70 percent of
the student body), I guess your evening might be better
spent sipping tea in a prom dress at the Ruse.

By the time the 300th rolls around, however, we’ll all be
Five-Star Generals, and the prospect of spending an
evening under a tent watching jumbotron should be pretty
darn exciting.

  
 
  

    
 
  

  

 in rtwice.

!‘?'4’:"’ eat» bleiiIan§i}’6fDr«..

     

 .%._€»5“l.'~ I '
eatiiig for free.‘ 

 
      
  

 arse ioos, is. $100,006)

e.’

 

were__yesterday, I

 
 

no.  , .',.   T _p_.,.'. 

~. _“s wasthe ’greatest'glo‘ry year  lacrosse§;_(W.e
e undefeatedinithe regular seaso 6 ‘ o”si,ng’in”the.is§§itiiﬁ-
Viia "rofzthe ?playof‘fs,”-'oiifa7contro alj calf .at;iJohhs
pktné:)1heév¢nt.isW9rﬂIy‘o£réni¢m 9ri_nsitsidIiniver-

    

Dévidkigbyﬂﬁ.        .
 .Ri1,styenjoysf? I
I DearEditor, , ~ A  , "
First, two statements; 3

I .— j p 3 1) I enjoy being petty and, 2) I wouldhave written earlier,

but it has; takenme six’ days, to ﬁnally wade through your

E meaty March 22nd issue. . i ' 6 .

f Upon reading“Destination: Spring Break 1999”Inoticed

~‘ ‘a glaringetror in you photograph captions. Hailing from the

Golden State Iconsider myselffairly knowledgeable of local

 »_§Never though, has California’ been  ‘I I
~ « dating one of America’s most P,ete'rNort!i" ‘ ‘ ’

. ~  5 Washington and Lee. One of the recommendations
’  ‘to focus on six “high risk”,periods:=NBreshmaa—0rien
 ’ tion,Homecomi1ig,Wiriterweekend, \_ ,1 

i ii: Dress and Alumni Weekend.

 
"“f’it« " ' '

 duced alcohol problems iii’-the ’t/ivfe‘,‘i‘hj,ilgh ;,is1e¢.‘;3e‘riod;~>;§:

1- » cohol arrests for the Fall ?98/Winter’9_9itetms were at_.an§:
-  «air-time low, dropping from 144 in 1983-i;9}o-56 thisyearff
, Emergency room treatments for. serious>aleohol'ab

        

* f.Cunanan’s High School, and ttieﬁeav

 ;:the “Old Faithﬁil” Geyser. Like  if
i for the ‘past couple million years 
‘spewed scalding hot water on animals \
fandtoui1‘sts alike, in Yellowstonef
mine-.i_  g 
,~For»youI.igrievous error7Califom,iai , ,1
short of a retraction, an apology, and  be ‘*
“you do notaddress tl1is,issi1e.  ‘j,
"I Ito, and I will take matters into our .‘own hands
., 1 Yours’ A 
‘ ’ Rusty Blackwell ‘99

    

 
   
   

        

 
   
 

 

 
   
 

 
 

Alcohol problem do
.DearEditor, 9 —  ,
vlpiastiispring, a group ofstuden le , . ew, _ .
*9s ‘worked in cooperation with Tmsteelﬁd Bishop,:Qr
Jarie‘ Horton and Professor Linda Hooks to d8V_el0p 5;
egies to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol abtisejaf

     

   
    
 

  
  
     
 
   

    

 
 
   

. T As we look forward 
ebration of our-250th, axmivexsaiy, Ia M _ , , _
. i that by nearly every quantifiable iptieasureiweif ave ‘re-

  

 
 
 

  

 that have occurred so far during this academic"

 
 

 
   

 

and alcohol~related visitations to the   erha
 ?beeii signiﬁcantly lower than last yearlﬂklcohol“ _ 
‘ ‘and dormitory alcohol violations by’fres11m"V,  en‘-are"al$o,.

I” down. I I L I  -'

Of course, alcohol abuse still exists and statistics alone,
do not tell the complete story. Nevertheless, there is 
growing consensus among students thattthe abuse 
alcohol hurts our community, and that weineed to 
together to address this problem. Student leaders hajvfei
becn supportive of our efforts ~—- primarily because Stu’-f
dents themselves have identiﬁed’ the areas of iconcem;
and developed the strategies to improve our social envi-
ronment. We are makiiig positive progress.

I want to thank all of the students whohave worked;
hard to make this change. And I wish everyone a spirited‘
and safe Alumni Weekend. 0 0

David L. Howison

Dean of Students

   

     
  
   

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
  

  

 
   
    
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
   

   

 W&L?‘

2 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi

IF E

APRIL 26, 1999

W&L students save the world, one at a time

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

W&L Invades DC. and wins

Washington and Lee senior B.J. Walker and junior Mary Hight rubbed
elbows with the soon-to-be, wanna-be, and actually powerful last month.

Obtaining national recognition for both themselves and the school, they
were awarded with first and third place honors, respectively, in a nationwide
essay contest sponsored by the Center for the Study of the Presidency.

“I was completely shocked,” Walker said of his win.

He and Hight had been joking before the contest that she could take ﬁrst
place honors and he would yield and be satisﬁed with second. Little did either
of them know how close their predictions would be.

Hight, after hearing that she won third place, admitted, “I was shocked. It
was very, very surprising.”

The essay topic
this year was “Lead-
ership for the New
Millennium” or “Les-
sons Learned in the
20th Century.”

Walker’s “Our
Third Century-Who
Will Lead” dealt with
leadership in the 2 1 st
century, predicting
what the presidency’s
role will be (a copy of
his essay is available
for viewing at http://
wwwcspresidencyorg
essay.htm).

Hight’s essay fo-

Photo counts) of \\\\w.\\hiIehousc.go\‘
Pres. Bill Clinton signs a bill into law. B.J.
Walker (’99) and Mary Hight (’00) wrote
essays on the presidency for a national

 

Using latex to save babies

Think science is weak at liberal arts schools like Washington and Lee?
Think again. Sophomore Joel Fechisin is proof of the fallacy of that stereotype.
F echisin’s research in neuroscience has been brieﬂy summarized and pub-
lished in the recent Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biol-
ogy (FASEB) Journal and may soon be published in a health/science maga-
zine.

Fechisin, a biology major at W&L, spent last summer conducting research
at the Robert Wood Johnson Hospital in New Jersey. Fechisin said that he and
the team he was working with injected latex beads into the spinal cords of
prenatal rats. “We were looking for oxygen-sensitive sites within the brain and
found that they reside in local networks of respiratory and sympathetic re-
gions,” he said. “If they can ﬁnd the pathway through which this transpires,
they may be able to relate it to SIDS.” ‘

SIDS, Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, is described by the American SIDS
Institute as “the sudden and unexpected death of an apparently healthy infant,
whose death remains unexplained after the performance of an adequate post-
mortem investigation including 1) an autopsy, 2) investigation of the scene and
circumstances of the death, and 3) exploration of the medical history of the
infant and family... It is not a disease, nor can it be a diagnosis for a living
baby.” SIDS is associated with more children’s deaths than cancer, heart dis-
ease, pneumonia, child abuse, AIDS, cystic ﬁbrosis and muscular dystrophy
combined.

Scientists have as yet found no veriﬁable cause or sure preventative mea-
sure for SIDS. Fechisin and his team’s research could have implications that
would make it a part of a massive worldwide effort to understand SIDS.

Fechisin and his team summarized their research in a short Abstracts article
for the FASEB Journal and presented their research brieﬂy last week through
a poster presentation at FASEB’s Experimental Biology conference in Wash-
ington, D.C., in April. FASEB provides educational meetings and publications
to disperse information about biological research results. Fechisin plans to go
back to the hospital this summer to complete the research, and his group hopes
to have their research fully published in a magazine sometime shortly thereafter.

cused on the presi-
dencies of Franklin

Delano Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan, comparing their leadership styles and

ﬁnding remarkable similarities in them.

Walker won $250 for his essay. He is a politics and history double-major.
Though he interned at the White House last summer, the presidency is not
necessarily his greatest interest. He plans to attend law school next year, but he

has not yet decided on the university.

Hight won $100 for her essay. She is a politics major who hopes to go into

campaign management.

The Center for the Study of the Presidency is an institution devoted to the
study of the presidency, government and politics. It sponsors the Moses Leo
Gitelson Essay Contest annually forjunior and senior undergraduates.

Universities across the nation send students to the Student Symposium in
Washington, D.C., to represent their schools and compete in the contest. Here,
students meet with senior government ofﬁcials, business leaders and scholars

in general sessions and panel discussions.

contest and won first and third place,
respectively.

Fechisin said
that while he en-
joyed doing con-
tributing work to
the study, he is not
positive that he re-
ally wants to spend
his life injecting
rats. He eventually
wants to go to
medical school.

 

Fechisin got involved with this research through Govemor’s School. That
program gave him the opportunity to do research at the hospital.

 

“I just wanted to
get my hand into it
and see what it’s
like,” he said.

Spring Term Do’s and Don’ts  

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

While everyone else is hopping about the country and
beyond, those of us left behind get to enjoy Spring Term
and all the fun it entails.

Here is your complimentary (administration-approved)
TO DO list for Spring Term. Before leaving for the summer,
you absolutely MUST:

I. Go to Goshen. An oldie but goodie. Directions to
Goshen: Take Main Street toward Wal-Mart, but turn left
onto Route 39 (the stoplight right before Wal—Mart). Stay
on 39, and the popular Goshen picnic spot along the river
will eventually appear on the right.

2. Go to a party at Zollman’s. Directions to Zollman’s:
Take Route 1 1 south to Route 251 (Thomhill Road). Turn
right onto 25] and go south, keeping on 251 past Union
Run Road. Pass the country club and the Moose Lodge,
turn left onto Zollman’s Mill Road and stay on it until you
reach Zollman’s (look for all the other cars full of fellow
students having fun).

3. Go to a concert or movie in Charlottesville, unless
you enjoy waiting until the movie you’ve been waiting for
is practically out on videocassette before seeing it at the
Lexington theater. Directions to Charlottesville: Take In-
terstate 64 east for 63 miles until it crosses U.S. 29. Go east
on U.S. 29 almost 3 miles until it crosses U.S. 250. Take
U.S. 250 east for a mile straight into Charlottesville.

4. Go to Roanoke for a day of shopping and eating
somewhere other than Salemo’s or Spanky’s. Directions
to Roanoke: Take Nelson (Route 60) toward Harris Teeter
and stay on Nelson until it crosses Interstate 8 I. Go south
on I-81 for about an hour until the Roanoke exit appears (it
is a left exit onto Interstate 581). To get to Valley View Mall,
stay on I- 581 to the second Hershberger Road exit and
follow the signs.

5. Go to D.C. if you’re going through big-city withdrawal.
General directions to Washington, D.C.: Take Interstate 81
northeast for about 110 miles until it intersects Interstate
66. Take I-66 east for about 73 miles right into Washing-
ton, D.C. More maps for the D.C. area can be found online
at www.mindspring.com/~chadallen/dc/layers/.

6. Go ANYWHERE ——- organize a group of friends to go
on a random road trip, and go where the road leads you.
There’s something to be said for spontaneity.

DISCLAIMER: You really don’t need to leave Lexing-
ton to have fun, as these ﬁrst six options might have im-
plied. The carless can have a great spring term, too. Read
on.

7. Have a picnic with your friends out at the Ruins.
Women: if you make it (the food), they (the guys) will come.
Guys: free food. No further argument necessary.

8. Play Ultimate Frisbee in the BDG quad or on the front
lawn. A

9. Sit out on the front lawn or quad, talking, reading or
working on that tan that you’ll hate yourself for when the
wrinkles come in another 30 years.

I I . Help at Habitat for Humanity or your favorite com-

munity service group in the area.

12. Go see a couple of those three-month-old Lex mov-
ies. C’mon, it’s part of the Washington and Lee experi-
ence.

13. Go to a couple ofthose sports events you’ve been
“too busy” for so far in the year.

14. Join a new club. There are lots of new ones spring-
ing up, especially dance ones like the Swing Club. Learn
something new.

15. Stargaze.

I6. Go to some of those lectures you never had time for.
We actually do get some pretty impressive speakers here.
Make Mom and Dad proud: next time you call home (an-
other great Spring Tenn resolution), throw around some
impressive names of lecturers you’ve heard.

17. Attend the Mock Con Spring Kick-off: April 26-28.

18. Go to Candide.

19. Hang out with friends you haven’t seen for a while
because you’ve been conducting or undergoing
pledgeship.

20. Think of something special to do for Mom — mark
May 9th on your calendar. It’s Mother’s Day, SHE won’t
forget, so you’d better not either.

And if you’re feeling really lazy. . .

21. Catch up on a couple of e-mails to long-distance
friends you’ve abandoned during hectic winter term.

22. Have a movie marathon with some friends.

23. Play cards. Learn a new game.

24. SLEEP — this IS spring term, after all!

Here is your DO NOT list. It is shorter, so it should be
easy to remember. Things you should not be caught DEAD
doing spring term:

1. Sitting in your room chatting online. IM (instant mes-
saging) is occasionally (emphasis on OCCASIONALLY)
excusable, but chatrooms are a deﬁnite no-no spring temi.
It’s just too nice outside to waste the weather.

2. Overloading coursework. Yes, you are a W&L stu-
dent, but you are human, too. Take a break! Six credits is
more than enough. Hey, who are we kidding, three credits
sounds good, too!

3. Proving for yourself that I am honest when I say that
the custodians start cleaning the library around 3 am. in
the morning. You should have absolutely no clue ifl am
telling the truth or not (aside from the fact that I am a W&L
student and thus have to live according to the honor sys-
tem !) . . . DO NOT be caught in the library that late. Ever.

4. Taking advantage of D-hall’s ice cream bar. Only ﬁve
weeks ‘til summer and long days at the pool and the beach
in your swimsuit. Think about it.

5. Following the advice in #4. C’mon, you only live
once!

6. Making excuses for not going outside. Ifyou follow
#2 and #3, you should not have too much work. And in
this modern age of Benadryl®, Dimetapp®, and a personal
favorite, Claritin®, allergies are no excuse either. Spring
days are too gorgeous NOT to enjoy.

Photo courtesy of hup://uuu.uni-grei(swald.de/-labanirn/indcxhtml

Joel Fechisin (’01) worked with fetal lab
rats while conducting research that may lead
to clues about SIDS.

  

Senior ﬁghts India ’s poverty

While other students were skiing and spending time with their families dur-
ing winter break, senior David Sugerman went halfway around the world to help
those less fortunate than himself. Sugerman went to India, serving for a month
in Calcutta at Mother Teresa’s Homes for the poor.

Sugerman
claims that he
“had wanted
to do a study
abroad pro-
gram” that
c 0 m b i n e d
service and
study. He
went on the
Internet and
found out
about the
Partnership
for Service-
L e a r n in g ,
which spon-
sors such
programs in
I 1 countries
worldwide. He
chose India as his destination and left the day after Christmas.

“I ﬁnished my exams, and in a few days I was on the plane for Calcutta,” he
said. Sugerman and three other students from the United States made up the
India team. For the ﬁrst four days, the group stayed in Delhi/New Delhi, the
capital city of the Republic of India. Here, the students underwent orientation
to India, did some sightseeing in Delhi, and visited Agra and the Taj Mahal.
The group then moved on to Calcutta, the base for both their studies and
service. K

Mother Teresa established a Catholic order in Calcutta to serve the needy,
and that is where the students spent their mornings. Working in conjunction
with physicians from Doctors Without Borders, students brought medications
to the needy, bathed them and washed their sheets by hand.

In the afternoons, students took classes from professors from Calcutta Uni-
versity and Calcutta Presidency College. Their classes were held on a rooftop,
and the subjects of lectures included women in India, Indian government, pub-
lic policy, economics and what Sugerman describes as “a good overview of
Indian history and current life.” Artists, movie directors and scholars also served
as guest speakers for these students. The students attended I4 two-hour semi-
nars on topics covering the history, religions and cultures of India. In addition,
they made several ﬁeld trips to other religious, medical, educational and service
institutions in Calcutta. Students had a reading list, wrote a research paper and
participated in the program in exchange for six credits in the history/sociology/

See INDIA, page 5_

Photo cour\cs_\' of hup://uxuxsiudyahroad.com/psl/india.him|

Partnership for Service Learning allows students
to study abroad while helping people like
thislndian mother and her baby.

Uzkyzbza 93 0172 CG yjreof

/ores en/3

csoﬁio/c7)?1'ass gy Uzkyzhzb We/akraﬂers

 

I 6  Zldasﬂzlrzy/012 CS/.

Zﬂcé’ 5
71-12) e/

I l

463~ [832

 

 

'>

 

X.
1

‘l

I

‘The popular boardwalk in

I«

4

A

- cult, Sugennan was able
‘ to say, “I’m‘ very glad I

  

APRIL 26, 1999  ‘  

@112 {King-tum iﬂlii

IF E

Need an escape?
Try the beach

By Erica Prosser
SENIOR EDITOR

Does the warmer weather have you itching to travel? Do you have abso-
lutely no idea what there is to do in Virginia for fun over a weekend? Do you
need help planning your next spring road trip? Look no further/ In this week ’s
travel feature, we explore Virginia Beach, the proof that we are not as land-
locked as we feel here in Lexington.

You don’t have to go all the way to Florida to have your sand craving satis-
ﬂed. Just 243 miles east of here is Virginia Beach, a region of Virginia that actu-
ally touches the ocean. Best of all, other attractions, such as museums and
water parks, are close by, so if you decide to come in out of the sun, there are
other things to do for fun. But ﬁrst, the beaches themselves 

Atlantic Avenue is the famous “strip” in Virginia Beach and is listed as the
world’s largest resort beach by Guinness World Records. This area features
three miles of
boardwalk, restau-
rants, patio bars,
shops and other
attractions. This is
great if you’re a
tourist (or if you
want to soak up
the tourist ambi-
ance).

If you want a
beach slightly
less busy, try
Sandbridge, just
sojith of the strip.
It still has ser-
vices such as life-
guards, but it stays a little quieter.

For the most peaceful beach experiences, try the beaches preferred by locals
who are trying to avoid tourists. Chick’s Beach and Ft. Story, both on the

 

Phoio councs) of hltp://\\*u'\\.ego.neI/us/\'a/vb/index.hun

Surfers enjoy the waves at Virginia Beach.

_ Chesapeake, are quiet and pleasant, but parking can be tough to find in these

areas.

If you’re looking for a rustic, nature-filled beach, try the Back Bay National
Wildlife Reﬁige. The beaches here are not accessible by car and are well off the
beaten path, but they are worth the visit.

If you want to play in the water but not on the beach, local services offer
many ways to enjoy the surf. You can rent jet skis or take pontoon boat tours
from Virginia Beach, and you can take a harbor tour or rent a kayak from Norfolk.
Fishing, parasailing and surﬁng are all
available, too. So whatever your relation-
ship to water, Virginia Beach has you
covered.

ter slide park (with a 46-foot drop for the
particularly adventurous), the Cape
Hemy Lighthouse, the National Maritime

pubs scattered all over the place.

 

Photo courtesy of hiip://mus.ego.n:i/us/\'a/vb/mdcx.him

Virginia Beach appeals to

fpeople of all ages. Take it straight into Virginia Beach.

events, tiy www.va-beach.net for more information.
i Have fun, and don’t forget to wear sunscreen!

SEINDIA, continued from page 4

I .religion/literature field.

N Sugerman had mixed reactions about his trip, happy to gain the experience but
understandably disturbed by all the poverty and destitution he witnessed in Calcutta.
Sugerman, a pre-med major, said, “I went to India to see what international medicine
would be like. I certainly still have an interest in it. It’s just difﬁcult to see men that are

‘"45 years old and weigh 80 pounds. Now I’m still interested in [international medicine],

but I ’ve realized that it’s

Other local attractions include a wa- 9 W

What exactly is going on in this photo?

Take a look at this fascinating photograph. Now tell us what you see.

Is it Moses chatting with God‘?

Is it the Washington and Lee chemistry department after an experiment
gone horribly wrong?

Is it the fate ofthose who do not return library books within the speci-
fied time?

Tell us what you think this picture is, and your twisted ideas could be
featured in next week’s Ring-tum Phi.

Just send an e-mail with your name and class to marzianie@wlu.edu or
eprosser@wlu.edu. Tell us what you think the caption of this picture
should be. We will choose the best suggested caption and run it with this
picture next week.

We will also include the runners-up for best caption, just to be fair.
And remember: ifthe winning caption cannot fulﬁll its duties, it is thejob
of the first runner-up to step in 

Some rules for you creative minds out there before you start sending
us your thoughts:

' Doii’t"s’énd‘u§aiiy"w6rdsor’phrases that could get you slapped by

your grandmother. You know what we mean.

Don’t send us anything offensive or really horrible about a specific,
named person or group on this campus (we may be forced to slap you
ourselves).

All captions must be in English and no longer than a paragraph (just a
sentence or two should do it).

Get the submissions in before 5 p.m. on Friday, April 30, 1999 if you want
them considered.

If you are allergic to e-mail, you can also submit captions by placing
them in the manila envelope marked “W&Life” outside The Ring-tum Phi
office, which is located in the University Center, room 208. If you do this,
make sure captions are legible and that your name and class appear clearly
with the caption. If we can’t read your writing, we’re not going to bother
calling you to ask about it.

Captions will not be returned, no matter how much you plead. lfwe get
a strong enough response, we will try to run a photo caption contest as a
weekly feature in the W&Life section.

Be creative, and good luck!

Center, the Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel and
the Atlantic Wildfowl Museum, just to name a
few. For you science fiction buffs out there, Vir-
ginia Beach is home to Imagine-Con 2000, the
Mid-Atlantic’s finest comic, science ﬁction, fan-
tasy, horror and toy fair convention (next year’s
convention will be held April 20-23, so start plan-
ning now if you can’t live without it). And be-
cause college students like to party, Virginia
Beach is a great destination for the clubs and

Sufﬁciently intrigued? To get to Virginia
Beach, take Interstate 64 east to the Interstate
264 West/VA-44 East exit and get on VA-44 East.

For lodging, other attractions and special

not going to be all that
idealistic.”

His time in India served
‘as a wake-up call to the ’
horrible realities of life for
many people. “To realize
that you’re only getting a
fraction of the people who
need help . . . it’s over-
whelming,” he said. He
stressed that even though
he had expected shocking
poverty, there is no way
to prepare yourself for
what you actually witness
in India. “It was difﬁcult,”

he said.

Sugerinan plans to go
to medical school at either
the Medical College of

‘ 'rginia or Thomas
efferson Medical School
in Philadelphia.

Though some experi-
ences in India were difﬁ-

Econo
Lodge

540-463-1311
- Parents’ Iliseount
- llewlv llenovated
- Free IIBIJ with nemote

went.”

  Cotter aii-We)

Academic.‘-'

THE TOTAL EDUCATION LOAN

Call toll-free 1-877-310-3456 for more information.
©1999 Chela Financial

r~\_.,.

Introducing the edge y(ﬁ:i:k\iiLia/ed for college.

To pay for all the essentials traditional ﬁnancial aid won’t cover, get the AcademicEdge‘“‘ Loan.
Low interest rates. Easy to apply. Make no payments in school. Flexible repayment after you graduate.

yet

http://AcademicEdge.Che|aFinancial.com

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

Sophomore attack Chris Brown
netted six goals, including ﬁve in a row
in the second half, as second-ranked
Washington and Lee pulled out a thrill-
ing 9-6 come-from-behind victory over
tenth-ranked Hampden-Sydney on
Saturday afternoon to claim their ﬁrst
ODAC Championship since 1995.

With the victory, the Generals (1 1-
1, 5-0) grabbed the automatic bid. to
the NCAA tournament that is awarded
to the conference champion. The win
also puts W&L in prime position to
grab one of the 12-team toumament’s
four ﬁrst round byes. W&L has now
won 10 games in a row, the longest
current winning streak in Division III.

“We’ve accomplished our first and
foremost goal: we have our ticket to
the NCAA Tournament,” said W&L
head coach Jim Stagnitta, who now has
ﬁve ODAC Championships under his
belt. “The kids are excited, in particu-

lar the seniors, especially because
this is the ﬁrst year there is an auto-
matic bid on the line, which makes the
conference that much harder to win.”

The Generals looked tentative in
the first half, and went into halftime
trailing the Tigers 4-2. Neither team
found the net until the final minute of
the first quarter, when Hampden-
Sydney (10-3, 5-1) scored two goals
in fifteen seconds. W&L finally got
on the board with 7:40 remaining in
the second quarter when sophomore
attackman Matt Dugan scored his
48th goal of the season to make it 2- l.
Hampden-Sydney responded with
back-to-back goals and took a 4-1 lead
with 3 :45 leﬁ in the half, but just more
thana minute later sophomore
midfielder Pope Hackney scored to
make it4-2.

“We didn’t have a lot of posses-
sions early on,” Stagnitta said. “We
got some good shots, but we’d get
one shot and miss the cage and they
would get the ball back and hold on

S

to it.”

The Generals have dominated the
third quarter during the past two sea-
sons, outscoring their opponents 1 17-
28, and Saturday was no exception.
Brown scored four goals in third quar-
ter while sophomore goalie Wes Hays
and the W&L defense shut down the
Tigers’ offense, and the Generals took
a 6-4 lead into the final quarter.

“At halftime, Coach [Stagnitta] told
us that this was our season right here,
and that we had to get it done,’-’ Brown
said. “It kind of put the season into
perspective and we came out in the
second half and got it done.”

With 8:00 remaining in the game and
the Generals leading 6-4, Hampden-
Sydney had numerous chances to
make it a one goal game, but instead
the Generals went up by three. All in a
matter of thirty seconds, Wes Hays
came up with two big acrobatic saves,
Hampden-Sydney All-American
Chamie Burroughs hit the post, and
senior defenseman Charlie Antrim

  
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
    
   
    
 
   
   
   
 
  
   
    
    
   
   
  
   

G112 iRtng-tum ilﬂhi

PORTS
Men’s lax grabs ODAC title, tourney bound

made a dazzling non-goalie save. W&L
senior defenseman Mike O’Neal then
intercepted a pass, giving the Gener-
als a 4-3 break on the other end that
resulted in Brown’s ﬁfth unanswered
goal, off an assist from junior
attackman Colin Dougherty.

“All those saves and then turning
it around and scoring on the fast break
was the difference in the game,”
Stagnitta said. _

The Tigers brought it within two at
7-5 and 8-6, but a goal by Dougherty
and Brown’s sixth goal of the game
sealed the deal for the Generals.

“It’s amazing to me that you can play
most of the first half the way we played
against a really good team and come
out and win the game,” Stagnitta said.

Like any other game, there is always
a little bit of luck in lacrosse. The Ti-
gers hit ﬁve pipes during the course of
the game, and if some of those shots
had gone in, the game might have had
a different outcome.

“You can say the pipes were the

difference, but a lot of them came to-
ward the end of the game when they
were taking desperate shots,”
Stagnitta said. “A pipe is a pipe, it
still counts as a missed shot. We’ve
had games where we’ve hit ﬁve or six
ourselves.”

Dougherty had three assists to go
along with his goal. Freshman
midﬁelder Andrew Barnett and sopho-
more midﬁelder Bernie Norton each
had two assists. Brown set a new ca-
reer high for goals in one game. He
now has 42 goals on the season and
64 for his career.

“You have to pick who you’re go-

ing to stop and they concentrated I

pretty hard on Matt [Dugan] and Colin
[Dougherty],” Stagnitta said. “If you
concentrate on taking those two kids
out of the game, somebody is going
to be able to step up, and Chris
[Brown] did a tremendous job of put-
ting it away.”

Hays looked brilliant in goal for the
Generals, as he came up with 10 big

APRIL 26, 1999

saves. Hays has only allowed an av-
erage of 5.44 goals per game, which is
one of the nation’s best goals-against-
averages.

“That’s one of the reasons we are
better this year, Wes can make some
big saves,” Stagnitta said. “In the big
games — Washington, Gettysburg,
Hampden-Sydney — he has come up
really big.” "

W&L has two more games before
the NCAA tournament gets underway.
The Generals take on VMI in the Lee-
Jackson Classic next Saturday at
Alumni Memorial Stadium and host
Randolph-Macon the following
Wednesday at Wilson Field.

“Hopefully we can beat up on VMI
and Randolph-Macon, and then get
one of the top two seeds in the play-
offs,” Brown said. “Then we can play
at home until the playoffs.”

“We’ve been in another big game,
and found a way to win,” Stagnitta

said. “I think we’re learning, and I still
think we’re getting better every game.”

Track hosts ODACS

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s track teams hosted the
ODAC meet this weekend. The men placed third and the women placed

fourth out of ﬁve teams.

For the women, junior Jill Kosch placed fourth in the 200-meter dash and
the 400-meter dash with times of 27.23 and 1:03.08. Senior Lisa Brennan
placed fourth in the 800-meter run and the 1,500-meter run with times of
2:26.39 and 4:59.64. Sophomore Wendy Case came in ﬁfth in the 3,000-meter

run with atime ofl 1:41.44.

Freshmen Britt Shaffer and Melissa Palombo came in ﬁfth and sixth re-
spectively, in the 100-meter high hurdles with times of 17.53 and 18.45. The
women’s 4x 1 00-meter relay finished fourth, as did the 4x400-meter relay with

times of52.9l and 4: 14.40.

Freshman Sarah Schmidt and junior Meredith Mlynar ﬁnished ﬁrst and
second in the women’s javelin throw, with distances of 110’03.50” and

104’06.50.

On the men’s side, junior Hansell Pasco ﬁnished third in the 100-meter
dash with a time of 1 1.15. Senior Darrick Alford ﬁnished third in the 5,000-
meter run with a time of 16:19.30. Senior Joe Bestic earned fourth in the 1 10-
meter high hurdles with a time of 16.60 and third in the 400-meter intennedi-

ate hurdles with a time of57.3“5.

The men’s 4x 1 00-meter relay earned fourth with a time of 43 .98, and the
4x400-meter relay earned third with a time of 3 :26.23.

Senior Mark Granger earned ﬁrst in the shot put with a distance of
41 ;07.00”, and sophomore Chris Wahl earned third with a distance of 40’00.00”.
Granger also earned fourth in the discus throw with a distance of 120’04.00”.
Junior Leigh Miller earned third in the javelin throw with his distance of

16l’l 1.50”.

A numberof the athletes threw and ran for personal bests.

 

Junior Leigh Miller winds up to throw the Javelin.

— Courtesy of Sports Information

'. _  ‘» ;_. 4'

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

price 0 size 0 townhouse 0 garden 0 free utilities 0 fitness

MOVING TO
RICHMOND?

EB
THE APARTMENT
..._..!:Q9!§T.Q.l3.....

R|0HMllllD’S FREE LDGATDR SERVICE
Call for Information and your Free Map

(33232-ﬁ§'léE6e

In Virginia (800) 542-3276
Nationwide (800) 368-7669
Fax (804) 529-6698 Q

programs 0 clubhouses oprice 0 townhouse 0 garden 0 free

utilities 0 fitness facilities 0 social programs oischools 0

Brand new ﬁeld, same old story

Baseball wins two out of three for the week on new Cap’n Dick Smith Field.

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

The boys of summer returned from
spring break with a new ﬁeld and a
bid to the ODAC tournament. The
team played its ﬁrst game in recently
completed Cap’n Dick Smith Field on
Monday with an impressive 9-3 win
over Lynchburg.

The Generals were 2-for-3 on the
week at their new home, and they also
added a road win over ODAC oppo-
nent Hampden-Sydney.

The team’s three wins this week
assure them of a spot in the upcom-
ing ODAC tourney for the ﬁrst time
since 1996.

The Generals split their double-
header with Guilford on Saturday.
Sophomore hurler David Sigler earned
the win for the Generals, upping his
record on the year to 8- 1.

The eight wins tie an 84-year-old
Generals record for number of wins in
a season. Sigler threw a complete
game for the 5-1 victory, striking out
six Quakers and giving up only four
hits and one earned run. He failed to
walk a batter.

The Generals’ offense came through
in the heart of the game, scoring two
runs in the third and fourth innings, as
well as an insurance run in the fifth.

Patrick Hall continued his offen-
sive production for the team, driv-
ing in three RBIs in a 2-for-4 perfor-
mance. Hall’s .363 average is the
Generals’ second best. Freshman
third baseman Matt Kozora went 2-
for-3 with an RBI.

Kozora, the team’s lone freshman,
leads the Generals in at-bats and is
second in hits with 35, making his .347
average the team’s third highest.

The second game wasn’t as fruit-
ful for the Generals. Guilford’s runs
didn’t come often, but they came in
bunches. Four runs ﬁrst and third in-
nings came thanks to the bats of Quak-
ers like Chris Butcher and Andy Reed.
Butcher had a double and a triple, and
Reed was also 2-for-3.

Kozora again held the hot bat, as
he was the only General with two hits.
He had two singles and an RBI. Se-
nior Bob Weston fell to 7-3 on the sea-
son with the loss.

Weston gave up six hits, result-
ing in six runs, in his two-and-a-third
innings of work. He only struck out
one Quaker.

Sophomore Bill Christ and Senior
Al Dominick also saw action for the
Generals.

Guilford’s Chad Coward threw well
into the sixth inning for the Quakers,
striking out eight Generals.

The Generals traveled to Hampden-
Sydney to spank the Tigers 12-2 on
Wednesday. Senior catcher E.J.
Murphy began the Generals’ scoring
in the top of the first inning with a three-
run shot.

Already ahead 3-1, the bulk of the
scoring came in the team’s seven-run
ﬁfth inning. Junior Chris Stakem be-
gan the inning with a single. Singles
followed by Murphy, Kozora, junior
David Hanson, junior Russ Wrenn,
sophomore Casey Nixon, and another

Junior Andy Thompson strides into third on Saturday during the double header against Guilford.

from Stakem.

Stakem, who took the win for the
Generals, was 3-for-4, with two sto-
len bases. Murphy was 2-for-5 with
ﬁve RBI, and Hanson was 3-for-5 with
three RBI.

The Generals christened the new

field with their 9-3 stomp of J-'

Lynchburg on Monday. Sigler threw
all nine for the Generals, striking out
11 Hornets with only one walk.
Hanson was 4-for-5 on the day, in-
cluding two doubles and three RBIs.
Hall andjunior left ﬁelder Jon Mad-
den both had two hits.

The Generals ( 1 8-10, 9-7 ODAC) will
resume play on Friday when the ODAC
tournament begins at Lynchburg’s City
Stadium. The Generals’ seed has yet
to be detennined.

’..:’—7"i”-iii"-4' «A I   f-

  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

    

  

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

  

 

 

Clhr ﬂing-tum iﬂlti

A

‘Women’s lax ousted in semis

    

 

Pliotioﬁby mi y Barnes/Photo Editor
Seniors Lauren Francis, Cory Mettee, Kimmy Lubin, and Karin Treese are honored before the
‘first-round ODAC game against Bridgewater. The seniors were highlighted for their play.

“I think we experienced a lot of growing pains this year,”
Miller said. “Every team has to go through that at some
point. I hope that the feeling we had at the end ofthe game
will stay with everyone and motivate us for next year.”

Hathom has no regrets about the season.

“There were times when we were absolutely brilliant,
and times when we showed how young we are. My great-
est goal for them was to learn the level at which you have
to play day in, day out, minute after minute to be success-
ful at a high level, and I think we did that.”

» By Frances Groberg

A SPORTS EDITOR

Once again, Randolph—Macon proved to be a stumbling
block for this year’s Generals. In the semiﬁnals of the ODAC
Tournament, the third—seeded Washington and Lee

«women’s lacrosse team fell to the second-seeded Yellow
Jackets by a score of 10-6. With the loss, the team ends
their season with a record of 7-8.

Randolph-Macon jumped out to an early lead, scoring
six of the ﬁrst seven goals. The Generals went into halﬁime
down 7-2. During the break, the team tried to ﬁnd a way to
adjust their outlook on the game.

“I think we went into the game scared,” junior defense
Ansley Miller said. “At halftime we realized that we really
needed to go out and take charge, that it wasn’t just going
to come to us. The score was bad, but we knew it wasn’t
impossible. We were in control of our own destiny.”

B'e‘h'in’d‘goals fro’ni”s‘ophoi'no're‘ attacl'<’Liz Borges ‘and
senior midﬁelder Karin Treese, the Generals were able to

;\_ pull within 7-4 with 13:41 remaining, but Macon responded
with three quick goals to dash the hopes of W&L.

“Our attitude was that we had nothing to lose,” Head
Coach Jan Hathom said. “Early in the game we had our
opportunities to score the goals and cash in, but we didn’t.

“They played their game, and played it very well.”

The Generals were led offensively by sophomore
midﬁelder Caroline Gee, who scored two goals. Junior goal-
keeper Ginny Jemigan recorded 1 l saves on the day.

To get to the semiﬁnals, the Generals recorded a solid
‘l7-4 victory over the sixth-seeded Bridgewater College.
Borges tied a career high six goals and also added two
assists to the effort. The Generals scored the last three
goals to go into halftime with a 7-3 lead.

it After halftime, the Generals scored the ﬁrst eight goals
of the second half en route to the l3—goal victory. The
Generals were led offensively by Borges. Freshman attack
Eloise Priest andjunior attack Katherine Riddle scored three
goals apiece. W&L junior goalkeeper Ginny Jemigan col-

A lected six saves for the Generals.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

A,

 

BE A LEADER IN A HIGH TECH FIELD.
While signing up for your high Army. An Army that's on the
J. _ tech courses, sign up for Army cutting edge of high technol-
ROTC too. ROTC is a college ogy. ROTC provides hands-on
elective that develops in leadership training. Valu-
talented students the skills  able training that prepares

    

 and confidence to lead and you for a military or a
3 become officers in today's '1‘ B civilian career.
BEES?
‘ THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For details, call VMI Army ROTC
at (540) 454 ""1,

.s- SPORTS

PAGE 7

 Where have you gone?

Pondering the loss of sports heroes in 1999 and kudos to W&L spring sports.

By Dan Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

1999 may be remembered as the year of the lost su-
perstar. Not evena third of the way through the year,
and professional basketball, baseball, hockey and now
football have all said goodbye -to the great ambassa-
dors of their sport.

In January, Michael Jordan bid farewell to basketball
after mezmerizing the world with his amazing abilities
over the past 14 years. He ended his career as the all-
time NBA career scoring average leader, putting in 3 1.5
points per game. He may very well have been the great-
est basketball player ever.

Baseball also lost an immortal ﬁgure earlier this year
in Joe DiMaggio, who died at age 84 this April. Known
as the “Yankee Clipper” and “Joltin’ Joe”, DiMaggio
was the embodiment of what a professional baseball
player was supposed to be; he played for the love of
the sport and not for the love of his contract.

Last week, Wayne Gretzky, known as “The Great
One”, retired from hockey after 2 1 seasons, four Stanley
Cups, and every NHL scoring record worth having to
his credit. Gretzky retired as a New York Ranger, but
won all of his championships in the l980’s with the

then-dominant Edmonton Oilers.

And now John Elway, whose name has become syn-
onymous with the Denver Broncos, will soon announce
his retirement ﬁom football, according to ESPN. He is
one the last trancendant athletes our time who, like Jor-
dan will leave the game on top, riding out the thrill of
repeating as World Champion.

So where does that leave professional sports? Any
league lacking a true superstar is not for me. I anxiously
await the arrival of a player that can take his sport to
another level in the near future, like Jordan and Gretzky
did ten years ago.

#*#¥####

On a most positive note, congratulations to the
W&L Men’s Tennis, Women’s Tennis and Men’s La-
crosse teams for capturing the ODAC Championships
this past weekend.

And cheers to the baseball team who, along with
top-seeded Bridgewater earned a spot in the ODAC
baseball tournament next weekend. If the bats stay
lively and the defense steady for the Generals, we
may have to make room for one more championship
trophy in the case.

Tennis cleans up at ODACs

By Robert Turner

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee's men's tennis team had
another successful ODAC tournamnent this week-
end, winning their fourth consecutive conference
championship.

The Generals ﬁnished eight points ahead of runner-
up Hampden-Sydney and twenty-eight points in front
of third place Virginia Wesleyan.

The team had success in both singles and doubles
competition, as sophomore Kelly Radford, senior Scott
Babka, freshman Rhys James, senior David Lehman, and
freshman Andrew Roberts all won singles titles,

Doubles teams consisting of senior Dale Pretilal
Babka, James/Radford, and Roberts/senior Torn
Washburn swept the doubles competition. Despite
their tremendous success in ODACs, the team still

waits to see if they will receive a bid to the 1999 NCAA
Tournament which will be held in California.

“By winning ODACs we lived up to some of our pre-
season expectations. We would have liked to win the re-
gion but nothing at ODACs was a disappointment,” fresh-
man Andrew Robertson said.

On Tuesday, the women’s team destroyed Roanoke 9-0
in their ﬁnal match of the season. Wins in singles were
posted by junior Brook Hartzell, senior Erin Eggers, fresh-
man Melissa Hatley, freshman Manning Willard, sopho-
more Christina Campbell, and sophomore Anne Castello.

All doubles teams were also victorious, including
Hartzell/Hatley, Eggers/Willard, and Campbell/Castello.
The win improved the team to 16-4 overall and 1 1-0 in the
ODAC.

The ODAC tournament was held at Sweet Briar College

from Friday to Sunday. The results of the tournament were H

not available at press time.

 

RTHUR
ANDERSEN

Warmly Welcomes

The Class of 1999 Full Time Staff

Assurance 4% Business Advisory Services, Vienna
Amy Greenberg
Stephen Guenther
Rachel Nitsche

Office of Government Services, Washington, DC
Cory Mettee

The Class of 2000 Summer Interns

Assurance & Business Advisory Services

Vienna
Kristen Burr
Rob Hendricks
Sula Jacobs
Cynthia Johnson
David Levinson
Jason Miller

Baltimore
Ma ttlre W Neuma yer

_ Pittsburgh _
Alicia Faderewski

Atlanta
Walter Plyler

New York
Ryan Elliott

Tax and Business Advisory Services, Vienna
Frances Alford A

We congratulate them on theirloutstanding
achievements at Washington and Lee University
and look forward to having them on the team.

ARTHUR

ANDERSEN

 

 

PAGE 8

W

o
E?
04.99
32-
90°”
55°
:I*"‘=
cl-5%
>"h-to

LAST WORD

 

APRIL 26, 1999

In the wake of the Trench Coat Maﬁa

By Kevin McManemin

RA VING AND DROOLING

Let’s review a few of the arguments
that have been ﬂoating around the
media since a couple of Colorado kids
turned their high school into their own
wacky shooting range:

We need to put God back in our
schools. This never would have hap-
pened if we taught basic J udeo-Chris-
tian morality in our public schools.

First of all, has anybody ever heard
of parents?

Second of all, the public school
system does a bad enough job of
teaching too many subjects already.
If we add morality classes, all that will
do is give America’s students one
more subject to fail. ln addition to not
leaming history and not learning math,
our children can not learn about mo-
rality as well. Super. Next thing you
know we’ll be reading about how far
our kids are behind the Koreans in the
number of Commandments they can
name.

Finally, Judeo-Christian morality
has been around for a long time and

let’s face it, folks, it hasn’t exactly
worked that swimmingly. The history

of humanity is ﬁlled with Inquisitions,
Crusades, Kathie Lee Gifford Christ-
mas Specials and other nasty things.

“Hey, let’s teach the kids about
Jesus!” Yeah, great. Maybe instead
of opening ﬁre on the jocks they’ll
just shoot up an abortion clinic in-
stead.

Violent movies and television are
to blame. We need more censorship
to protect our children.

Every time. Every single time some
loser offs a few of his classmates, we
blame the movies and television. This
argument has more ﬂaws than OJ
Simpson’s defense. First of all, a lot
of people watch violent movies and
surprisingly few of them turn into ho-
micidal maniacs. In fact, Hollywood’s
shoot-em-up violence epics score big
on the international box ofﬁce yet it’s
only American kids who seem to have
this little murder problem. Canadians
watch most of the same movies we
do, and have you looked at the crime
statistics for Canada? Their idea of a
crime wave is two shopliftings in the
same province in the same month, eh?

Yet fat-headed idiots still go on
CNN and blame the movies. One guy
suggested we put a tax on violent
movies — charge the ﬁlmmakers mil-

lions for violent content and jack up
ticket prices to $50 each (I know that’s
so ridiculous it sounds like ajoke but
l’m serious, some lackwit actually said
that).

Why aren’t we blaming CNN? Do
you suppose this crime might have
been influenced by the other highly-
publicized school slaughters that hap-
pened in the past few years? lsn’t CNN
just feeding into these pathetic kids’
goal of getting attention?

They say these kids idolized Hitler.
Oh, I don’t know, but do you suppose
the whole “mass murder” idea might
have had a bit more to do with Hitler
and a bit less to do with Quentin
Tarantino? I suppose we should out-
law all books about Adolph and World
War ll, lest some kid get a bad idea.
And let’s look at Hitler. I doubt he ever
rented any Scorsese ﬂicks at the Berlin
Blockbuster, but he seemed to have
that whole “violence” thing down

pretty well.

We need stricter...

Hold on, I’m not done with that last
one yet. Nothing makes me madder
than the egregious ﬂaws in logic evi-
dent in the “let’s censor violent enter-
tainment” argument. If we go after vio-
lent movies, I guess we should take

 

 

ﬂarrg/:s° .s°%oﬂ/2/[mg .s/aree

4!-aaker: $.70

‘-The important things in life are free.
‘For everything else, there’s Qisaster ‘Bard.

Gacnine: $7?

Fnck a
cigars tesz $70

Kuining your
professional lmselmll
career: priceless

risan

Shakespeare out of our schools —
most of his plays end with someone
getting stabbed. They even gouge a
man’s eyes out in “King Lear.” THEY
GOUGE GLOUCESTER’S EYES OUT
FOR GOD’S SAKE! That’s high art,
but “Reservoir Dogs” is pure crap?
(Though, granted, Shakespeare
doesn’t resort to the f-word ﬁve times
a sentence).

Violence is a simple fact ofhuman
existence. lt’s in our blood, and we’re
not about to get rid of it unless we
change human society, human history,
human physiology and human psy-
chology. Changing the picture shows
at the local cinematorium won’t change
a thing. Entertainment is our release
from the problems of this world, not
the cause. Clinton bombs the Serbs
and we cheer; kids bomb the cafeteria
and suddenly people are asking
“where did they learn this behavior?"
Wake up, folks, it ain’t the movies.

Are you done with that one yet?
Yeah, let’s move on to the next ar-
gument.

We need stricter gun control laws.

Now I’m no legal scholar, but aren’t
there already laws against minors own-
ing guns? Those laws didn’t really
seem to work in this case, did they?
Why do we think more laws are going
to solve things? Why am I suddenly
asking so many questions? I’m not
offering very many solutions, am I? ls
this piece over yet?

These senseless killings are a
great tragedy.

Let’s put things in perspective. The
popularity of Backstreet Boys, In Sync
and 98° — now there’s a tragedy.

That’s not nice. How would you like
it ifsome psychopath opened ﬁre at
W&L?

Don’t worry, Prof. Holliday left.

That was just a rumor. It wasn’t
true.
Well, anyway, I suppose I wouldn’t

like it ifsome psychopath opened up
at W&L, unless he just bombed the
Law School in which case I think there
would be widespread dancing and ca-
rousing in the streets the likes of
which haven’t been seen since V-J

day.

+-

L.
I

You wouldn’t say that if you were a ‘

law student.
If! were a law student l’d do my
civic duty and slit my own wrists.
)1

This is pointless.
Thank you.

FUN FOR Aﬂ_..MMS"§

Make your own college yarn

Sure, we all love to relive our
college days, but who can remem-
ber all the little details dulled by
time and whisky?

Never fear, alums! We at the Last
Word have heard plenty of your
“wild” college stories and we’ve
come to the conclusion that it’s all
really the same old boring story
with minute variations.

Using high-tech computers,
we’ve created this easy-to-use
Wild College Memory Maker®.

Just read the story below and
ﬁll in details from the column on
the right. If you can’t ﬁgure that
out, I guess it is true that any idiot
could have gotten into W&L back
in the day.

Good luck, and happy memories!

“Ah yes, we were wild in those
days. Oh boy, let me tellyou. One
time me and [l] (his real name
was [2]) went to a guy we knew
in BM to pick up a case of [3]
for our fraternitj/‘s scavenger
hunt.

Yeah, we were pretty crazy back

to [4].

We got so drunk that night we
ended up puking all over [5]! Of
course our colored butler didn't
mind mopping it up.

Those were the days, I tell
you."

then. For scavenger hunt we had .

 
   
 

An official W&L

250*!‘

activity

     

"250 years of meaningless milestones’

l1l *
Flipsy

Dink

Royce

Sneetch

l2l
C. Preston Buckworthy lV

T. Wescott Haupt-Lang Ill
Dr. H.R. Pennington C. Lee lV
J. Wembley Stuart Stewart Vlll

l3l

Natty Bo

Bootleg turpentine & rat poison
Syphilis

Fine Cabbage Liquor

l4l

Dance the Charleston with a horse
Run naked all the way to Belgium
Go out with a lady ~ UNESCORTED!
Lynch a carpetbagger

l5l
The backseat of our covered wagon
President Taft’s daughter :
Tarnation, dag nabbit .
Beano’s weed supply (for ’70s’ alums):

OOOOOO‘OOO00033000OOkIIOOOb'OOOOOO‘Q"OOOOOC

0
)9

Ethnic cleansing is

.-. . _,, x .

  

Between paying for all the bullets and bombs I barely had enough money left over
for the gas chambers! Luchil y I have Monsfe/"Card They raised my credit limit and
gave me a big cash advance! And only Monster Card is accepted by more than
1,200 terrorists and arms dealers worldwide. when you need money and you need
it fast, Monster Card is always there for you.

 

Qlobodan Milosovic trusts
Monsfer Oard — shouldn't you’?

call 1-800-MONSTER today and start cleansing your bank account!

n’t cheap!

THE Hook 

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings, ,
And A Hell Night That Will Lead.You To
Them” 0 ,

4

gr.

5-

, Eats?-bls‘Es'wiHA‘r L  .
you KNEW TO BE;TE2UE;:_O.lg=‘v ‘Fl.-l'i.lA.TERNlT'Y RUSH, 
S BUT VVERE_;lA>F§AlD.TO.A.DMlT.  T T  ,:

B:l3Bc;-cake
P1). E39; 84 4

Send mt: oopy(ir:s) of!-IELLMAS‘I'ER
Name *
Addrcss
ZIP __..__.__
$15 per book plus $2 shipping and hézntlling.
Please make checks gzzay;-1'1:-lt: to Bill B4,;--iinkzi and :r1a:i ‘.::.v: t‘

 

.§o'ooooaehoooooa;_rooo

/Writ _ _
5 "1/7 /33
, .--~_\ 3. 

1,40.-I 

(- ‘.g--
x__

 

 

+4

*‘  I...
1 -

1
1

U112 ﬁling-tn

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

III

VOLUME 101, No. 22

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 3, 1999

“You had no clue you were in Lexington”

Beautiful weather, gigantic tents, ice sculptures, satellite uplinks, and great lacrosse made the bicenquinquagenary special.

ByDanGrattan
,, NEWSEDITOR
There are few tents in

Rockbridge County that have run-
ning water, two jumbotrons, chan-

of all of the past leaders of the stu-
dent body.

The show also included live per-
formances by W&L thespians, as
well as the University Chorus and
the W&L Jazz Ensemble.

One part of the show which has
raised questions among current stu-
dents was the video that was inter-
spersed throughout the perfor-
mance, as well as aspects of the
speeches of President John Elrod

and Rector of the Board of Trustees,
J. Frank Surface ’60.

Although some students said that
the video was “adequate”or

“alright,” many others referred to the
series of narrated clips as “bad

infomercials,” and “admissions vid-
eos.”

“I was expecting a Ken Burns
masterpiece,” said one junior, “what
we got was a cliched plea for alumni

money.”

Some students who saw the show
also said that the speeches of Elrod
and Surface made them feel uncom-
fortable in the presence of so many
Alumni. These students were con-
cerned that both the speeches and

4 elegant parties Washington and Lee

‘ Show, broadcast live from the

deliers, and a buffet table measured
in terms of miles.

Sophomore Lauren Harris said it
best upon walking into the tented
gala.

“You had no clue you were in Lex-
ington,” she said.

After years of anticipation and
planning, the 250“‘ Anniversary Na-
tional Day of Celebration arrived on
Saturday, and more than 3,000
alumni, faculty and students en-
joyed one of the more unique and

has ever hosted. Everyone involved
with the Gala was thrilled with the
Pa1’tY~

“I was very pleased with how well
it was done,” said student co-chair
of the 250"‘ Steering Committee, Nate
Tencza. “It was done with a lot of
class and it turned into a really spe-
cial event.”

Those who made it to the Ruins
found a lively mood, good music,~ex—
quisite food and a satellite broadcast
being beamed millions of miles from
the Lenfest Center to the Liberty Hall
Ruins.

The National Celebration Satellite

Lenfest Center was hosted by
reknowned journalists Roger Mudd
’50 and Cecily Tynan Badger ’9l.
The show included awards for out-
standing service to the University
in the areas of learning, leadership,
and honor. Sydney M. B. Coulling
III ’48 and Francis Pendleton Gaines
were given the learning and leader-
ship awards, respectively. The award
for honor was given to the Student
Executive Committee Presidents.
The first female E.C. President and
ciirrent leader, Beth Forinidoni ’96U,
’99L accepted the award on behalf

One of W&L’s most famous alums comes to town to speak, sign and celebrate 250 years

By Heather McDonald

COPYEDITOR

Never was a white-suited man so anticipated at Wash-

,‘ ington and Lee.

Last Thursday, author and alumnus Tom Wolfe, ’5 1,
showed up in his signature white suit, signed books and
gave the keynote address for Reunion Weekend. Fa-
mous for his style of writing, New Journalism, and his

4. immensely popular two works of fiction, “Bonfire of the

Vanities and A Man in Full,’’ Wolfe’s books gamed a
huge crowd to his books signing and his speech. Stu-
d/ents, faculty, alumni and townspeople waited in line-
some for nearly three hours-to get Wolfe’s signature.
When the doors closed at 5:30 p.m., much of the line was
turned away.

The speech was held under the tent on Cap‘n Dick

Smith Field. Smith was Wolfe’s coach while during Wolfe’s
days as a Generals baseball pitcher. Wolfe started out
the speech with the anecdote about the time he came
back to W&L for Alumni Weekend and received an Hon-
orary Doctorate. The speaker described Wolfe as an out-
standing baseball player. After the event, Wolfe said to
Smith, “I bet you didn’t know who they were talking
about,” to which Smith replied, “Wolfe, you tried.”

Wolfe’s speech. entitled. “The End of the Century and
the Spirit of Washington and Lee,” focused on the impor-
tance of W&L’s liberal arts education. Saying that the
modern trend for specific, technologically-oriented cur-
ricula proves to be limiting, Wolfe said that the tradi-
tional format of W&L’s education will get students far in
life.

Wolfe had to leave Lexington to celebrate the 250th
Gala with the New York City Alumni Chapter; he was

scheduled to be honored as a Distinguished Alumni.
However, freshmen Tom Grove ran into Wolfe before he
left.

“Micah Tollman and I were sitting in the D-Hall when
[Micah] looked up over my head and says, ‘Is that Tom
Wolfe?’” Grove said. “I saw a white suit approching, and
I knew it had to be Wolfe in a suit like that.”

Wolf sat down to eat breakfast with his wife. Grove
and Tollman went over to Wolfe and talked with him about
his speech. While Grove didn’t have a Wolfe book with
him, he did have “A Sickness Unto Death,” by Soren
Kierkegaard.

“I asked him to lighten it up a bit for me,” Grove said.
Wolfe signed the book “Tom Wolfe is fabulous-Soren
Kierkegaard,” and handed it back to Grove, saying, “I’m
sure that’s what Kierkegaard would have said.”

ODACS: Oh so close

Baseball team makes it to the ODAC ﬁnals for the first time
since 1984, long tournament takes its toll on pitching staff

V photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor I
Junior attackman Chris Brown fires a shot that, in spite of all appearances, does not manage to find its way past VMI goalie
Cregg Burns. Top-ranked Washington and Lee went on to win the 12"‘ Annual Lee-Jackson Classic by a score of 9-3 Saturday.

Waiting for the ‘Man in Full’

the historical content of the video
hinted too much at alumni dona-
tions.

‘‘I’m worried now that ifI’m not a
Inillionaire in ten years that W&L
won’t care about me,” said one
sophomore.

In addition, many students ex-
pected to partake of the much-touted
1/6 mile long buffet table. Because of
the heavily discounted ticket prices
students were given, organizers did
not plan for students to eat dinner at
the event. Many students were disap-
pointed, however, as they were not
aware that they would virtually be ex-
cluded from the ornate dinner.

Aside from these grievances, the
vast majority of those who at-
tended enjoyed the evening im-
mensely. Junior Andy Stewart was

the party at all, but is very happy
that he took part in the event of
the year.

“I’m deﬁnitely glad that I went,”
Stewart said. “I guess this type of
event doesn’t happen often, but the
level of sophistication and class ex-
hibited was impressive.”

According to Director of Food
Services Gerald Darrell, that level of
sophistication and class came at a
dear cost to W&L.

“It was the largest social event in
the history of the county, it was un-
believable,” Darrell said. “Spectacu-
lar. Everything went smoothly.”

The total bill Darrell will be send-
ing to the Alumni Association, how-
ever, for the festivities under the
tent, as well as numerous other ca-
tering events this past weekend,
nears $130,000.

Maybe those alumni contribu-
tions will come in handy after all.

. ' :1  «
.”.$,,.z
.1X " r

photo by Hollister Hovey/Assoc. Editor
Alumni dancing the night away at the Ruins.

Keynote Address.

phto by mily e:Phot:i Editor
Author Tom Wolfe ‘51 stands with President
‘ John Elrod following his Reunion Weekend

By Brendan Harrington
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee base-
ball team came within an arm’s
length of capturing their first ever
ODAC championship. A pitcher’s
arm length, to be exact.

On Sunday afternoon at
Lynchburg’s City Stadium, the Gen-
erals fell to the Bridgewater Eagles
13-2 in the championship game of
the ODAC baseball tournament. It
was the Generals’ fifth game in less
than 48 hours.

“We ran out of pitching, and we
were also just out of gas to play,”
W&L head coach Jeff Stickley said.
“We were a half second behind on
our swings. We were just worn
out.”

David Sigler, who was pitching

on just one day of rest, got
roughed up early, and a host of
inexperienced W&L pitchers
couldn’t put out the fire.
Bridgewater (25-17) scored seven
runs in the bottom of third, and
Eagles pitcher Gene Crawford
gave up only two runs in nine in-
nings ofwork. Crawford, who also
pitched two scoreless innings
earlier in the day, was named the
tournament’s Inost valuable
player.

It was only the second time in
team history that the Generals made
it to the championship game. The
last time was In 1984, the Generals
lost 4-1 to Lynchburg College in
the finals.

The odds were staked against
W&L (21-12) making it as far as
they did. Because the Generals lost

the first game ofthe double elimina-
tion tournament 3-2 to the Virginia
Wesleyan Marlins on Friday night,
the Generals needed to win four
straight games in order to win the
tournament.

“Once we lost the first game, it
was a stretch to think we could go as
far as we did,” Stickley said. “We
just kept playing and good things
kept happening.”

On Saturday, the Generals
downed Emory & Henry Wasps 9-6,
giving the Generals their first ODAC
tournament win since 1989. Senior
pitcher Bob Weston gave up three
runs in six innings to win his eighth
game ofthe year, tying a team record
for most wins by a pitcher in one sea-

son.
Sigler tied the same record,

See ODAC on page 4

E1112 Tiling-tum iﬁhi
May 3, 1999
OPINION:

Bad plumbing, good towing,
McManemin mail continues!

PAGE 2

W&LIFE:
Alums reminisce, SFA CD

PAGE 3

SPORTS:

Men’s lax stomps VMI for
1 1th time running, baseball at

ODACS
PAGE 4

 

initially unsure if he would attend A

 

MAY 3, 1999

(71112 iﬂing-tum lﬂlti

OPINION

 

The Weekend is over. Following a year of build-up
and hype, some of us donned tuxes and dresses and
marched out to the ruins, some of us sat in frat houses
and watched Cable 2, and some ofus just blew the 250"‘
off and stayed home.

For seventy minutes last Saturday night, a large part
of the Washington and Lee community sat around and
did something fairly routine; got drunk and watched TV.
And what we saw was a show that was neither moving,
nor thrilling, nor in some instances particularly repre-
sentative. ‘

Minority students ﬂashed across the screen with
regularity, with much more regularity than they are seen
on campus. Once again, W&L tried to portray itself as a
place where students from all walks of life gather in the
noble pursuit of higher education. And the end result
sounded somewhat hollow.

The student population is currently made up of5.5
percent minority students, strikingly low in compari-
son to the real world. The fact remains that W&L con-
tinues to be a hard place for many minority students to
be, while at the same time attempting to deny the fact
that we are overwhelmingly white, Southern and
wealthy.

Minority students who choose to live with others of
similar interests or backgrounds in the Chavis or Inter-
national houses are treated to decrepit, homely build-
ings. Students who choose to live with others with simi-
lar interests in sports and greek letters are treated to
houses that the university has invested $13 million in.
What kind of message are we sending? It’s okay to talk
about polo, but not racial issues?

While it can certainly be argued that in building up-
dated minority housing, we encourage polarization
among the student population (Dean of Students David
Howison has stated that he will never support it for this
purpose). We encourage polarization everytime we hold
Rush. Anyone can see that a fair degree of polarization

exists already (ever seen the D-hall?) between minorities

and the majority, yet nothing is being done to correct
this. Instead, we simply deny minority organizations the
opportunity to meet in a decent place that might justify
the costs of tuition.

W&L is not culturally diverse. Yet viewbooks, cata-
logs, other publications circulated by the university and
now even the 250"‘ video would have us believe that we
are. Steps are being taken, but we are still not who we
pretend to be, and certainly not who we pretended to be
last Saturday night.

It’s time to make up our minds. Either embrace diver-
sity in a real sense and begin admitting freshmen classes
that reflect reality, or simply accept that who we are and
what we’ve been is what we will be, and then publicize
that instead of fantasyland. Stop making like a damn os-
trich, and get your head outta the sand.

It was somewhat amusing, or insulting depending on
your point of view, to watch a celebration of250 years
ofa heritage we don’t have.

 

PAGE 2

Tﬁeing £1 Ittnft [Barnett philnfnphii: effag on
the nereffitg of learning to laugh at uurfeluiza

I never realized how much fun it could be to be widely
despised.

In three years of writing for this paper, I’d managed to
generate a sum total of one complaint letter — and that
from a townie (God forbid I should make ﬁsn of the locals,
it’s not like there’s anything funny about any of them).

But all that changed last month. Since then, I’ve gener-
ated no less than three angry

predators each day?

Lighten up, people. I’m a humorist, and since I don’t
take anythingl write seriously I don’t see why anybody
else should either. I’m only kidding. I think there are two
perspectives you can take on the problems of the world:
you can either learn to laugh at them or sit around crying
and whining and writing complaint letters. Pardon me for

taking the more psychologically

complaint letters and two per-
sonal attacks from other excel-
lent campus publications, one of
which mispelled the name of my
fraternity and one of which

 

healthy path.

So now, in this court of public opin-
ion, I’d like to be able to respond to
some of the charges levied against me:

mispelled my name. Suddenly
I’m under ﬁre from all sides like a
Kosovo villager (sorry, Ashley).

Now that I’m semi-controversial, I feel . . . well . . . happy.
For one thing, I know that at least somebody out there is
reading my nonsense. And knowing that I’m offending
people’s morals — well, that just gives me a warm and
ﬁizzy feeling inside, somewhat akin to swallowing a gerbil.

Oh no! Oh no! That last sentence might have offended
gerbils and gerbil-lovers (not Richard Gere) everywhere!
Censor! Censor, lest we offend! How dare we joke about
the serious crime of gerbil-eating? How dare I be insensi-
tive to the millions of wild gerbils eaten by their natural

On the charge that I’m anti-Catho-

lic: My family’s Catholic. I was

baptised and conﬁrmed into the Catholic church. I spent

thirteen years in Catholic schools. I think that gives me the

right to say whatever the hell I want about the Catholic
church.

On the charge that I’m a coward: A coward? Insensi-
tive ——sure. Mean-spirited — you bet. But a coward? That’s
an awfully bizarre accusation. I mean, how does one prove
his bravery in newsprint? I don’t think the heroic ideal of
any civilization has ever included sitting down and writ-
ing. When newspaper people use the word “bold,” they’re

Plumbing in Gaines all wet

One Sunday, I walked in my room
after having been out all day. I rather
like my room. It’s relatively clean, rela-
tively spacious, and homey in a col-
legiate dorm room kinda way. Only
something was different in my room

month, and
whenever

this day. else it’s tem-

Upon opening the door, a horrid, peramental
unidentiﬁable stench hit me like a little heart de-
ﬂyswatter on a ﬂy. Our carpet was sires. Physi-

aquarium had live or dead ﬁsh, prob-
ably out of politeness.

This has been the saga of the year.
‘Our toilet breaks on average once a

 

didn’t think I’d be hauled away by
men in white coats or the administra-
tion, I would call up St. Pat’s and
plead that an exorcism be performed.
Supposedly when
building Gaines
Residence Hall,
the project ran out

of money (now
THERE’S a

 

Coffee Talk
Hatther McDonald 01

 

Cilia Ring-tum iﬁlri

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan

Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

W&Life Editors

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Erica Prosser
Sarah Meldrum

Senior Editors

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w/u.edu
/ittps//wlu.ea’u/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

soaked. There were a few mops in
the room, lying about haphazardly. It
ﬁnally had happened.

The evil toilet in our suite had once
again overflowed, but this time
soaked into the main room and — of
course! —— my bedroom. The mildew-
ing odor that lingered as our carpet
dried out was something like that of
an aquarium said a friend of mine. He
didn’t specify whether or not this

   

ote of the week:

cal Plant groans upon hearing my
room number. I think Physical Plant
hates us; believe me, we’re not break-
ing the toilet on purpose. I don’t
know about the rest of the world, but
personally, I really like a toilet that
works and wouldn’t do anything to
endanger that efﬁcient little porce-
lain friend. The people who pass by
our message board on the hall already
think we’re nuts, because we keep a
running update
on whether or
not our toilet is
working or not.
(That way, you
don’t get your
hopes up after

{{

New Rule: 40-year-old

walking in the
door after a long

day.)

alums will not be allowed M y

at Chi Psi Late Night...

—— Frightened sophomore up on the bar

Saturday night

suitemates have
decided that our
plumbing facili-
ties are pos-
sessed by none
other than Satan
himself. If I

1}

phrase you don’t often hear at W&L)
and they skimped on plumbing. Ru-
mor has it that our plumbing cannot
serve a full capacity because the
project coordinators never thought
Gaines would be ﬁlled to capacity.
C’mon. That’s really poor planning.
Many of the alumni here this past
weekend never though W&L would
admit women, but it still did. Always
plan for the “worse-case” scenario.

I often run past the location where
sorority housing is being built. I pray
that these buildings will have top-
notch plumbing. When I make my sec-
ond million and donateit to W&L (be-
cause I’m keeping the ﬁrst million for
myself), I will only give it on the stipu-
lation that they expel the demons
from Gaines plumbing, and then in-
stall more-than-capacity plumbing in
that building.

So those of you living in Gaines
next year, good luck. I wish you luck
and give you this advice: go to Wal-
Mart and get a mop and a really good
plunger. And if your toilet begins to
overflow, say your prayers. It’ll be a
long year.

 our» core A ta?-W” W°”9f’ﬂ0

talking about font size. If anybody knows how I can prove
my bravery on the page, please let me know.

On the charge that I’m a two-bit pipsqueak: Three-bit,
thank you very much.

On the charge that my editors need to start censoring‘
me: Censorship? Come on. You’re supposed to be in col-
lege to have your world views challenged, not to have all
of your beliefs happily afﬁnned. Disagreeing with my bleak
and rather silly world view is one thing, but censoring it
would be. . . oh, I don’t know . . . intellectual cowardice?
Here’s a message for those ********s who think censor-
ship is the answer: ***** ***** with a **** and ******,*
your mother’s **** in ****.

On the charge that there are some things you just don’t
joke about: Back in the ﬁfties, they thought sex was some-
thing you just didn’tjoke about on primetime TV. Have
you seen an episode of Friends lately? It’s about 98% sex
jokes/boobjokes/penis jokes with the obligatory “Phoebe
and Joey are dumb” jokes thrown in. Comic morals are
changing faster than Superman in a telephone booth and
society is ﬁnally pulling its collective stick out of its ass.
Learn to roll with the punchlines, or you’re in for a long
and bitter life writing complaint letters.

Beneﬁts of  
getting    
towedin Lex.

Is there a worse way to start out your Sunday
morning recovery than to walk out in the blinding ;
sun: and find your car not where it was the night be-’“
ifore? we all complain about being towed and cough-
ing up the 60 dollars to get our cars back from ,
_Lexington’s impound on the hill, but it could be worse.

o On a recent visit to a friend at UVA I awoke to that 2
all too familiar feeling that It had been towed. This
time, however, there was no security office to which?:
drag my
sorry self, '
no Kia ,.:;~
8 portage
to cart me
back to my , , I ’ “
ride, and a long list of wreckers in the Charlottesville
yellow pages that may or may not have been the
people kind enough to remove my car from that un-
authorized parking place. i o
 I got the car back (youlwere holding your breath,
weren’t you?), and it wasn’t a case of a country boy
from Rockbridge county scratching his noggin with
bewilderment in the big’ ole city of Charlottesville.
At W&L we know what we’re in for and probably
the name of the person that busted that attempt at
squeezing one by the powers that be on the first ﬂoor
of Graham-Lees. Most anywhere else we will never
see the forces that worked to ‘start our day off on a
terrible note.  , ,1 ‘
j ‘ Here we have an opportunity to plead our case
and try to make someone understand why our cars
stay parked in the corral or behind gym for days on
\ end. We know that someone will at least listen to our .
sad stories of impending deadlines and cold walks
L back from wherever it is that our cars should be
parked.

It is that element of familiarity in all aspects of _
W&L life that we tend to overlook. l’ll be towed again
once I’ve left Lexington and I’m sure that the hassle
will be much worse than any of us ever experience at
the hands of W&L security.

While no one enjoys it, at least we don’t have to
spend time tracking our cars down and wondering if
there will be someone to unlock an office door for us
at any number of wreckers all over town. There will
never be an upside to being towed, but the personal
touch with which our money is taken and we are in-
convenienced can’t be beat.

Too Fast For Bane:
Steele Cooper ‘O2

LETTER To THE
EDITOR

More McManemin hatemail

Dear Kevin McManemin,

rado shootings disgusted me in it’s heartlessness.

You are a coward for mocking those in their dark-
est hours. Please consider the depth of personal trag-
edy for every person who has recently lost a child, a
sibling or a homeland.

This is not the first infuriating and insensitive
article to make me question whether the Phi has an
editor. If this plea falls deaf on your ears, Kevin, may
your editors ﬁnally show enough taste to silence
you.

Ashley Penkava ’00

Your treatment of ethnic cleansing and the Colo- 

 

:“Big Boys” bands bls

MAY 3, 1999

W&

itting-tum lﬂlri

Lit-“E

PAGE 3

By Hollister Hovey

Assoc]/1 TE EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Society

K for the Arts gave ﬁve W&L bands 15

4(

minutes to make their fame.

Students packed the Ruse for the
recording of “The Ear” last Tuesday
at 8 p.m.

1 The live CD compilation of the
event featuring some of W&L’s best
bands will be available by the end of
Spring term.

Speakeasy, Edwards and Harvey,
Fowl Temptress,
B a r c l a y
H o n e y w o o d
and Six on the
Brain had 15
minutes each to
play their best
material.

G e o f f
Bowley, Heather
M c D o n a l d ,
C h r i s t i n e
Metzger, Whit
Morriss. Beth
Perry and Susan
Slim read poetry backed by jazz.

The CD is the first annual produc-
tion ofthe SFA. All proceeds will go
to Night Owl Music and the Ruse.

“We thought it would be wonder-
ful to have a record of how much tal-
ent we have on this campus for every-
one to remember,” event organizer
Susan Slim ’0l said.

The SFA will try to have the CD
out by April 19 in time to make it into a
time capsule. “It will show future gen-

thee a r

 

accomplish outside of academia,” Slim
said.

“It was a wonderful meeting of ar-
tistic minds,” senior Fowl Temptress
member Chad Reynolds said. “I was
very excited about the showing, not
only among the artists, but among the
fans.”

Due to necessary recording atmo-
sphere, the Ruse had to restrict the
number of audience members.

“I thought it was kind of bad that
people were turned away,” Barclay
Honeywood and Edwards and Harvey
frontman Chris Edwards ’99 said. “But
on the other
hand, it was great
that that many
people showed
up. We were re-
ally happy with
the crowd re-
spouse.”

The sounds
on the CD range
from the rock of
Speakeasy to the
bluegrass of
B a r c l a y
Honeywood to the jazz of Six on the
Brain.

“I was really pleased with eclectic
musical styles,” Edwards and Harvey
keyboardist Josh Harvey ’O0 said.

“I was skeptical about how the jazz
poetry combo would turned out, but it
sounded great,” Edwards said.

“Blending the spoken word with
the jazz gives the audience a great ex-
ample of how different artistic genres
can mix,” Slim said.

  

the

:..\‘<'-:*=

   

Phofoﬂby Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Rich Walter ’98, Chris Edwards ’99, and Reece Wilson ’99
played at Tuesday night’s SFA CD recording at the Ruse.

there is so much talent and creativity
within the student body. The support
we got was incredible.

“The Ear” is the first production of
Fowl Temptress work. “It reminds me
that there’s a place for everything and
everything has it’s place.” F.T.
frontman Mac Harris ’99 said. “It feels
like the first time I won a toy at Chuck-

erations what this student body could

“It made me really happy to see

E-Cheese,” Mac Harris.

“It’s always fun to hear ourselves
play after a performance,” Ruse owner
and Barclay Honeywood member Rich
Walter said. “I’m grateful that people will
be able to hear this eclectic event on CD.”

“The Ear” will be available at Night
Owl Music and the Ruse upon release.

 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

W&L alumni bus their way to a reunion bash at the tents by
the Ruins for Washington and Lee’s 250"‘ celebration Saturday.

‘Survival tips for Mother’s Day

~i

A

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

AHHHHHHH —— it’s May 3rd, so
Mother’s Day is less than a week
away! Wondering what in the world
you can do for Mom? Here are some
handy ideas for the rushed Washing-
ton and Lee student:

1. Send her an animated electronic
grdeting card via the Internet. There
are tons of sites you can get them at:

-www.egreetings.com

—www.animatedgreetings.com

—www.bluemountain.com

-www.cyber-cards.com

and other sites. Just go online to
one of those sites, and send Mom an

load”

e-card. It’s free, personalized in a mat-
ter of seconds, and it lets her know paper version of the card, because it
that you are thinking abouther, which would last a lifetime, And c’mon,
is all that she really cares
about anyway. K

2. Send her a snail-
mailcard. If Mom istech-
nologically impaired
(finding the power but-
ton on the computer is
major feat, you need to
walk her through saving
a Word document, and
the very word “down-
sends
through her body), this
might be a safer bet. And even if your

 

chills

By Erica Presser
SENIOR EDITOR

Look outside. It’s May, and chances are,
.  .5121: is. shining. .weath¢_r   $94

frolicking is deﬁnitely fun, the returning sun-
phine can bring hazards with it that you might
not foresee. After a long winter of bundling up
and staying inside, here’s a refresher on sum-
mer sun safety. You might want to keep this
handy; it could help you out this season.
Despite the fact that, in recent decades, the

about the dangerous ultraviolet (UV) rays
coming from the sun, the media have also con-
tinued to portray beauty and happiness as
things contingent upon bronze skin. As a re-
sult, millions of people (including students right
here at Washington and Lee) continue to lie
outside during the summer months, soaking
up rays and building for themselves a nice fu-
ture of premature aging, wrinkles and possibiy
 cancer. ’ 

Although this article will probably not
change anyone’s mind about sunbathing, it
might remind you to take a few precautions
when exposing yourself to the light.

Wear sunscreen. And a sun protection fac-
tor (spf) of three won’t cut it here. Research

shows that, for the best protection, one must

' se a minimum spf of l5,ipreferably in water-
proof, frequently-applied fomi. When correctly
used, a, sunscreen with spf 15.means that, for a
given light condition, it takes 15 times as long
to develop redness with the screen than with-
out. Harmful UV rays are blocked, and you re-
duce your chances of frequent trips to the der-
matologist when you get older. So reapply the
sunscreen every two hours, even on cloudy
days, and make sure to choose one with a high
spf and a wide spectrum of UV protection.

Bearthis in mind: tanning oils, acceleration

you have lots of free time during spring term V _
to go frolic in the summer atmosphere. While H

media have bombarded viewers with warnings _

creams and other products should be avoided.
These generally do nothing to protect your skin
from the UV rays. Check labels for the spfvalue,
and keep in mind that the more expensive prod-

nets aregnot necessarily better for you. H
Keep this in mind, too: some medications

have photosensitivity effects, which means
that, if you are on one of these drugs, you may
be more likely to burn and suffer skin damage
from the sun than you would be if you weren’t
taking the drugs. Some kinds of antihistamines,
oral contraceptives, tricyclic antidepressants,

. tetracycline antibiotics, diuretics and anti-in-

ﬂammatory drugs, just to name a few, can cause

‘p problems depending on the drug and the indi-

vidual. Even everyday products like deodor-
ant, soaps and perfumes can have photosensi-
tivity effects. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist
if you are confused about a product’s photo-
sensitivity.

To ﬁirther protect yourself, wear a wide-
brimmed hat and sunglasses when outside.
Also, avoid reﬂectingsurfaces, as they can toss
up to 85 percent of the damaging rays back up
at you, hitting you twice. Finally, if you start to
feel uncomfortably hot or if your shadow is
gone (because the sun is directly overhead),

r seek shade.iYou will still get the outdoor sum-

mer experience, but you won’t ﬁy.

If you dovget burned, stay out of the sun
until you heal. Wear protective clothing and
sunscreens, and use pain medications and
creams to ease your discomfort. /Above all, pre-
vent further burning; you’ve already done
enough damage. Remember: most of one’s life-
time sun exposure occurs before the age of 20,
so be careful.

The best advice for today’s tanners?_ Spring
for a spa trip and get a sunless tanning treat-
ment. You will get an even, streak-free tan, and
your skin won’t spend hours being abused by
the sun. If you must be bronze, this is the best
way to go. Otherwise, you’re on your own to
practice safe sun.

she would probably still appreciate the

_ you’re a college stu-
dent, you should
know how nice it is to
get REAL mail. If your
mom happens to be
Mrs.
however, see #1 instead,
and save a tree.

3. Send her ﬂow-
ers. You can wire ﬂow-
ers to your mom,
wherever she is. Sure,
ﬂowers are kind of

cliche, but have you ever known a girl

mom happens to be Mrs. Bill Gates, who didn’t like getting them? Sure, it’s

Baked,notfried, please

- Hot tips for n0,n—stop,,peeI-free fun in the sun

Ralph Nader,

the thought
that counts, but
a physical repre-
sentation of
that thought
never hurt any-
one.

4. Send her
chocolates.
There are shops
in Lexington, as
well as online,
that can ship
chocolates to

(Excuse the stereotype, but it works.)
5. “Hire” your father, a sibling, or a
family friend to make the day special
for her in your place. Have them deco-
rate her favorite room with Mother’s
Day paraphernalia, take her out to eat
at a specific place you think she’d
love, or rent a movie that you’ve been
telling her she needs to see, on you. It
gives her a great time, and all the little
details let her know that, far away as
you may be, you are thinking just of her.
6. CALL HER on Sunday! For some
odd reason that only mothers can un-
derstand, just the sound of your voice
makes her happy. So go for it. Make
up for all those times you haven’t
called home, haven’t e—mailed, or have
spent an entire phone call or e-mail ar-
guing with her or trying to have your
own way. Be sweet. It’s only one day
a year, so you can do it— make it special.
7. Be creative and think of some-
thing entirely new and original that
only you COULD think of— all the
other stuff is great, but nothing makes
Mom as happy as knowing you were
thinking specifically ofher. So incor-
porate an inside joke you have with
her when planning your gift. Have fun
with it. Let it be trademark YOU ®.
Hint: what you SAY is FAR more

R1159  

 

Coming home again

W&L alumni compare past, present

By Elianna Marziani
FEATURESEDITOR '

Jazz blasting over the front lawn,
huge tents by the Ruins, extra ban-
ners all over the place: the evidence
of Washington and Lee’s Alumni
Weekend and the 250th Celebration
was quite apparent last weekend.

Though the campus looked and
felt different to current students, it
was even more different for the
alumni from across the decades who
reunited over the weekend. All were
reassured by the overwhelming feel-
ing that, while the appearance of the
campus and student body may have
changed since they were students,

the traditions and general feeling on-

campus had not changed at all.

Five-star General Keri Van
deWater ‘4 I enjoyed coming back to
W&L and seeing all the old and new,
especially new female, faces.

“[The presence of women] has
added ‘considerably to what W&L is
all about. They certainly have raised
the standard,” Van de Water said.

Warren Dean ‘54, also noticed
some siight changes in W&L from
his time here.

“Ijust came from the restroom, and
the girls were in the men’s room, and
the men were on the other side using
the urinals,” Dean said. “You ﬁgure it
out.”

Though shocked with the most
noticeable presence of women at
W&L, Dean felt reassured that the
atmosphere of the university was still
the same.

Ernie Foster ‘54 found the most
shocking difference at W&L the lack
of a dress code.

“Co-education, that’s fine,” he
said. The most memorable part of
W&L for him was his great profes-
sors, especially Gaines, Gilliam, and
Leybum. '

‘xx’ 3’ Don Sigmund ‘59 said, “The
- 0f[W&L] is What it is still: the

their love for the university. Some -

students, the honor system, the in- V
telligence, the gorgeous countryside.
The best is it hasn’t changed. It has
just gotten better.”

Lee Halford .‘69, was also happy
to seethat W&L had not changed
it’s basics.

“One of the greatest things about
W&L is the way that it has been able
to preserve its tradition for excel-
Ience.”

He enjoyed coming back and see-
ing W&L after all the years. “I’ve had
a wonderful stay —- I couldn’t imag-
ine a better weekend. I thought the
video was exceptional. The whole
250th celebration couldn’t have been
better.”

Ted Vaden ‘69, is a journalist in
Chapel Hill, North Carolina. J

“The most impressive thing to me
was seeing the presentation from the
Lenfest center. . . realizing not only
the people here at Liberty Hall, but
also at 55 other locations over the US. ’
were gathered . . . it’s a great sense of
connectedness. It’s just a powerful
feeling.”

Vaden also was reassured by a
sense of continuity at W&L.

“It really hasn’t changed very
much,” he said. “It’s the same sense
of camaraderie. We all know each
other even though we don’t know
each other.”

John McCants ‘84, noticed one
major change at W&L and obviously
wanted to comment on it.

“The quotes I could give you, you
couldn’t print,” he joked. Then, get-
ting more serious, he said, “They
voted on [co-education] my senior
year. I thought it was a good idea. It
think it has worked well for the
school.” He said that ‘the greatest
things about W&L is “the old
ﬁiends...still friends.. .great people.”

» All of the alumni expressed their
happiness tobe back at W&L and

things never change.

your mom, important than what you DO. Write a
Woman. Choco— sweet note to go with whatever you
late. Enoughsaid, do, and you are guaranteed to make

Mom happy this Sunday.

540-463-7371
, -
° PEIIGIIIS IIISGIIIIIII

NEWW Renovated
H38 "30 Will] BBIIIIIIB
N0 Slllﬂllillﬂ HBIIIIIS

H88 Cﬂlllillelllﬂl Brealitast

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
R INTO DEBT.

 

up to a $65,000 limit.

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not

in default.

And debt relief is just one of the many beneﬁts
you’1l earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Under the Army’s
Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
three-year enlistment.

Each year you serve
on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one
third or $1,500, which-
ever amount is greater,

 

EXCELLENCE

RESPECT

 

Our home-grown values of Respect, Integrity, Proﬁtability and Excellence have
made us the RIPEst folks in the bunch. And now, we're offering a tip you can
count on! Fresh food and our friendly family environment can add up to a

better income and greater job satisfaction  for you!

We are interviewing and hiring on-the-spot for:

ALL POSITIONS

at our Lynchburg restaurant

2
-1
1''‘!
O
73
—-4
-<

We have full and part-time openings,
with very ﬂexible schedules.

So if you’re looking for a way to earn extra money, take a tip from Shoneys -
apply in person at the following location:

sigggs

5515 Fort Avenue, Lynchburg, VA 24501
EOE
PROFITABILITY

 

 

 

PAGE 4

. _....._.....i.......m.;.

(‘I112 ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

SPORTS

 r~l".‘...n4. :_..._.-.1

MAY3, 1999

Lax locks out Keydets9-3 at Le

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

It has been the year of the sopho-
more for the men’s lacrosse team.
Saturday’s 9-3 victory over Virginia
Military Institute in the Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic was no exception.

The top-ranked Generals (12-1, 5-0
ODAC) were led by sophomore
midﬁelders Bernie Norton and Matt
Dugan in the romp of Divison I VMI.

It was the 1 1th straight win for the
Generals this season, and the 11th
straight at Lee-Jackson.

W&L got off to an early start as
Dugan scored two of his four goals
on the day, only to be followed by a
goal from junior Andrew Jones to give
the Generals a 3-0 lead at the end of
the first quarter. Late in the second
quarter, Norton added his two goals
to the Generals’ cause, taking the team
to the locker room with a 5-1 lead.

The second half began with three
goals, two from Keydets and the third
again from Dugan. The Generals ﬁn-
ished out the third quarter up 6-3, but
goals from junior Colin Dougheity, jun-
ior Greg Meyers and Dugan in the
fourth ﬁnished the scoring at 9-3.

Each year, the Worrell-Fallon Award
is given to the most valuable player
from each team. This year, Norton’s
two goals and two assists and Keydet
Cregg Burns’ 11 saves in goal merited
them the honors. Sophomore goalie
Wes Hays came up just short of Burns
with 10 saves of his own.

Norton said that although the game
“isn’t an ODAC game, no one takes it
for granted. lt’s a really big game for the
city itself, and it’s such a big rivalry.”

Even though the Generals don’t
underestimate the Keydets, Norton
said getting excited about a game could
be a problem.

“We were a little ﬂat going out
there. We were nervous with such a
big crowd.”

An estimated 4,500 fans attended
this year’s contest.

.1,

3

4 .

   

.~e

e-Jackson

 

~r<§<z§2%;;’i2‘s._ ,
itiiiféifl: .
¥§1:'.l’.; 3' 4 .

ODAC from page 1

earlier in the season, which was first
set by Emerson Dickman in 1 935.

Aﬂer Virginia Wesleyan lost 6-5
to Bridgewater in the winner’s
bracket championship, the Gener-
als took on the Marlins for a sec-
ond straight night. This time the
Generals carne away with a 13-6 vic-
tory, as W&L broke a 6-6 tie with
seven runs in the bottom of the
eighth inning.

Junior first baseman Russell
Wrenn went two for three with three
RBI. Junior Chris Stakem went the
distance for the Generals and
picked up the victory to go to 3-3
on the season. The victory, the
Generals’ 20th of the year, set a new
team record for most wins in a sea-
son, breaking the old record of 19
wins, which was set in 1912.

In order for the Generals to
claim the championship, they had
to down Bridgewater twice on
Sunday. In the ﬁrst game, W&L
fell behind 4-0 and it looked as

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Sophomore Tom Burke works a VMI defender in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic on Saturday.

Whether it was the crowd or not, the

narrow margin is worriesome, consider- though there would be no need for
ing that the Generals are gearing up for ' ° a second game. But the Generals
the NCAA tournament. This year’s Lee—  scored 10 unanswered runs to
Jackson was the only time in the take a 10-4 lead after six innings.
toumament’s history that W&L has not SCORE By QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 Fina] Wrenn again led the charge for the
scored in double digits against VMI. In WASHINGTON AND LEE (12_1) 3 2 1 3 9 Generals, knocking in four runs
addition, the 12 goals scored was the - with apair of timely singles. In the
lowest total in the Classic’s history. VIRGINIA MILITARY (5-9) 0 I 2 0 3 tournament, Wrenn hit .350 and
The Generals will look to close out knocked in ten runs.

their season against Randolph-‘\/Iacon W&L VNH Bridgewater cut the Generals
on Wednesday. Norton said the Gen- 36 SHOTS - 22 lead to 10-9 after they plated 5 runs
erals will prepare the same for their ﬁ— 7 FACEOFFS 8 in the top of the seventh inning
nal conference game as they have 40 GROUND BALLS 39 off sophomore starter Bill Christ
throughout the season. Face-off will 6 for 4:00 PENALTIES 5 for 4:00 and senior relief pitcher Al
be at 3 p.m. at Wilson Field. 2 for 5 EXTRA MAN OFFENSE 0 for 6 Dominick. In the top ofthe ninth,
-- Frances Groberg contributed 16 of 16 CLEARS 15 of 13 with the Generals still leading 10-

to this article. 9, Bridgewater had runners on ﬁrst

Pitching runs out
in Lynchburg

and second with nobody out. Stickley
had no other option but to bring
Sigler in to pitch, even though he was
coming off only one day of rest. Sigler
pitched out of the jam to record the
save, and the Generals hung on to
winl0-9, forcing a second game that
would decide the championship.

“I wanted to save David [Sigler] until
the second game and not pitch him at
all in the ﬁrst game,” Stickley said. “But
we had to use the best we had.”

Sigler had to sit around for over half 1

an hour before he could take the
mound in the second game. He gave
up three runs in the first inning, giv-
ing Bridgewater a 3-0 lead that they
would never relinquish.

“They were scared after we beat
them the first game,” Stickley said. “But
once they got to David, it was over.”

The Generals had five players 1

named to the all-tournament team:
Wrenn, Stakem, senior second
baseman Patrick Hall, senior catcher
E.J. Murphy, and junior left fielder
Schuyler Marshall.

Hall, Murphy, Weston, and the rest
of the Generals senior class saw their
careers come to a close on Sunday.

Hall ends his career holding the <

records for most career hits, runs
scored. and RBI at W&L, while
Weston holds the record for most ca-
reer wins with 23. Murphy had an out-
standing tournament, going eight for
18 with 4 RBIs.

“The key to the whole thing was
the seniors ~ they just made us a

tougher team,” Stickley said. “Open- -*1

ing the new ﬁeld, setting a new record
for most wins in a season, having all
those guys make the all-toumament

team, playing in the championship 1‘

game — it couldn’t have been much ’
better this year.”

.  y,u~-‘con have the last laugh. Just. e I
I IjTl_ien everylimje you buysomelhing, y0.u»'l|g1e‘l_ of as ' back Bo

 ll’-s, like giving yourself a ‘tip. 9 Chan

0 rr PAYS.’

DISCOVER

1:011 0000 0000 0000

J L HEBB

Up to 1% paid yearly based on annual level ol purchases. Greenwood Trust Company. Member FDIC.

 

ﬁr

 

ﬁr

 

VOLUME 102, NO. 3

Freshmen serve in N abors’

Freshman Leadership Council organizes day of
community service to honor Jonathan Nabors

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Community service and a brief
ceremony marked the passage of the
ﬁrst annual Jonathan Nabors Memo-
rial Day.

The Freshman Leadership Coun-
cil sponsored theday of service in
memory of Nabors, a freshman at
Washington and Lee University who
was killed in a Jan. 3 car accident re-
turning to school following Christ-
mas break.

Most who participated gained a
feeling of satisfaction from doing so,
and felt that the message of the day
was a worthy one.

“It was deﬁnitely a success and
we hope to make it an annual event,”
freshman Stacy McLoughlin said.

McLoughlin estimated that more
than 100 freshman participated in the
various activities that made up the
service day.

, Following brunch in the BDG
Quad, the day kicked offwith a cer-
emony honoring Nabors. Freshman
class president Grant Dickson wel-
comed the group and introduced the
speakers; Dean Mark Dalhouse and

. Nabors’ roommate Mike Reynold.

The class also presented Mrs.
Nabors, Jonathan’s mother, with
ﬂowers and a tree honoring Nabors
was planted in front of Baker dorm.

Nabors’ mother, father, and aunt at-
tended the ceremony. They said they
plan to return for every future ser-
vice day.

Following the ceremony, volun-
teers left for various community ser-
vice activities. Students helped out
at the Food Pantry for Rockbridge
Area Relief Association, Yellowbrick
Road Daycare Center, and
Boxerwood Gardens. Others helped
at a Big Buddy/Little Buddy ﬁeld day,
featuring events including soccer
and slip n’ slide. 9

Freshman Will Atkinson traveled
with a group to Glasgow to help an
elderly woman clean up her “unruly”
shrubs. Afterwards, they talked with
the woman for an hour on topics
ranging from the weather to the time
she and her husband cleared the
trees off their plot to build the
house.

“You could tell we brightened up
her day,” Atkinson said. “She en-
joyed the company.”

Freshman Matthew Marks be-
lieves Jonathan would have been
pleased with the turnout and overall
success ofthe day. Marks spent Fri-
day night with Nabors’ family.

“.lonathan’s family was impressed
and really appreciated the gesture,”
Marks said. “Mr. Nabors said he’d
bring gloves and work clothes for
next year’s service day.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Ultra ilttng-tum {ﬂirt

Sophomores Allison Bruneau (left) and Virginia Brumby,

   

Photo by Emily Bames/ Photo Editor

Senior David Sugerman shows his form at the Habitat for Humanity Bowl-a-thon at Lex Lanes.

Chief Justice Rehnquist to speak

By Dan Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

More than 100 prospective lawyers
will venture out from the conﬁnes of
the W&L community this Sunday with
a send-off from the top judicial ﬁgure
in the land.

I,.The Honorable William H.
Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the U.S.

‘ Supreme Court will deliver the address

at the Washington and Lee University

School of Law commencement this
Sunday at 2:30 on the lawn in front of
the Lee House.

Before presiding over the Senate
impeachment trial of President Bill
Clinton, Rehnquist served as an as-
sociate justice ofthe Supreme Court
for 14 years, from 1972-1986. He was
named chief justice in 1986 under ad-
ministration of former President
Ronald Reagan. He was appointed by
President Nixon as assistant attorney

general, ofﬁce of legal counsel, in
1969.

This marks Rehnquist’s second ofﬁ-
cial visit to the W&L law school in re-
cent years. He delivered the keynote ad-
dress at the dedication of the Lewis F.
Powell Jr. Archives in the spring of I 992.

The commencement ceremony will
begin at 2:30 p.m. on the lawn in front
of Lee House. In the event of rain, the
ceremony will be held in the Warner
Center.

 

MONDAY, MAY 10, 1999

memory

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
and freshman Richard Bendall share a watery bonding moment with 5-
year-old Walter Styles during an outing for community Big Buddys. This was one of the activities for “Serving in Memory,”
sponsored by the Freshman Leadership Council.

Buffalo Creek Music

By Dan Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

Fear not spring term junkies, the
annual Buffalo Creek Music Festival
is coming this weekend to Zollman’s
Pavilion, and it is going to be great
as usual. 1

“Buffalo Creek is going to be run
exactly as it always has been,” Di-
rector of Student Activities Owen
Barker said. “It won’t be run like this
year’s Halloween party at Zo1lman’s,
and it’s going to be a blast.”

There will be three stages for
bands this year, two outside and one
inside the pavilion. According to
Chris Noland, who is the main orga-
nizer ofthe event, there will be one
difference in the format this year.

“We are only going to have one
band on Friday night this year,”
Noland said. “There is a reasonably
small group of people who generally
make it out for the ﬁrst night, and

they are usually busy setting up

their ﬁres and camps.”

According to Barker, this year’s
event should prove to be another
great one, and only improved be-

Generals lax earn NCAA ﬁrst round bye

By Ryan Gielen

STA FF WRITER

The road to Byrd Stadium, the site
of the NCAA Finals is set, and this
year it goes right through Lexington.

Last night the Generals were re-

7 , warded a ﬁrst round bye in the up-

coming NCAA Tournament thanks
to a regular season record of 13-1

Overall and 6-0 in conference. They‘
share the extra week of rest and prac-

» tice with Gettysburg, Washington

College, and Salisbury State, who
also received ﬁrst round byes.

5,‘ The Generals ﬁrst game of the
Toumament will be the quarterﬁnals
on May 16th here in Lexington
against the winner of Denison vs.
Ohio-Wesleyan. Wesleyan, remem-
ber, is the team responsible for

A knocking the Generals out of the

playoffs in the quarterﬁnals last sea-
son. The Battling Bishops came to
Lexington last year and dominated
W&L, 17-8.

Denison may be the favorite in the
ﬁrst round contest, however, as they

defeated OWU earlier this year, 14-9.
Also, the Big Red may be looking for
some revenge of their own against the
Generals. W&L beat Denison in the
ﬁrst round of the NCAA’s last year,
16-13 on Wilson Field.

Ifthe Generals were to win their
opener and advance to the Semiﬁ-
nals on May 23rd, chances are they
will face either Salisbury State or
Hampden Sydney for rights to ad-
vance to the finals.

Salisbury State is an athletic team
who scores a lot of goals and may

' match up well with W&L. Last week,

Salisbury beat Washington College,
who is the only team that the Generals
have lost to all season.

On the other hand, the Generals
had a hard-won battle against
Hampden Sydney just three weeks
ago, emerging victorious 9-6.
Hampden-Sydney is a possible sec-
ond round opponent for the Generals,
as well.

On the other side of the bracket, #5
Nazareth will have quite a difficult time
getting to the championship game for

the fourth consecutive time, as they
will have to defeat 1 1-2 R.l.T. and top
ranked Gettysburg just to get to the
semi—ﬁnals, where they would face
another tough opponent.

Look for Middlebury (who is 6-1
against top 20 opponents) or Wash-
ington College to upset the top half
of the bracket and challenge the Gen-
erals for the championship.

Fans? Rouun QuAn1znrIMALs s:uIrIuAn.u r.n4._

MAY I2 MAV I5 MAV 22 MA: 30
'6 1' IBURG
(I3-2)

'NA:AR£7N ,

(I I-2)
_:B—'£a__
(I I-2)
-uéﬁunasrgn ‘
( I-2)

on 0:474 ‘

(IO~2)
' II: unv
H24) j:---—..
-
1
(14-1)

vn ac
(1l-4)

'H:=:v§\'g
(IO~3)

‘WAIM Q  ‘
(I3-ll
onto n§=ktlA=‘

(I2-3)

‘OINIION

lIl~2)

‘NONI YIAII

cause of the funding provided by
Washington and Lee University
through the SAB. Barker says that
the SAB money helps tremendously
in bringing more quality acts to the
festival.

“The bit of money that the school
provided will just make the show that
much better,” said Barker.

So get your tents and lawn chairs
ready for another two days of love
and music in Lexington, because the
bands this year are going to be fan-
tastic.

Many of the better bands to play
at W&L in recent years will be found
at Buffalo Creek this year, along with
a few new additions that will add
depth to the great lineup that Noland
has put together. Bands like Agents

M4

Fest to rock Zollman’s

of Good Roots and Zen Tricksters
willjoin with the Ominous Sea Pods,
Zion Wave and Disco Biscuts on
Saturday. W&L student band Barclay
Honeywood will kickoff the long list
of acts on Saturday.

One of the best parts of spring
term is going to happen again this
year, but according to Noland, it will
take the continued support of the
Greek system and the W& L student
body to keep going strong in future
years.

“The festival is funded through
fraternity and sorority donations. as
well as t-shirt sales,” Noland said.
“We got twelve fraternities and one
sorority to give money this year, and
i hope that will keep going strong in
the future.”

Friday, May 14
10 p.m.

Saturday, May 15
12 - 1:30
1:30 - 3:00
3:00 - 5:00
5:00 - 6:00
6:00 - 7:30
7:30 — 8:30
8:30 - 10
10:30 - ?

1999 Buffalo Creek schedule

Emma Gibbs Band

Barclay Honeywood
Humunculous
Zen Tricksters
Zion Wave, set 1
Agents of Good Roots
Zion Wave, set 2
Ominous Sea Pods
Disco Biscuits

May 10, 1999

OPINION:

W&L1FE:

SPORTS:

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁhi

Nudity, response from C0

Prof. Ray phases retirement

Proﬁles and more lax

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

rt
’/

MAY iii 1999

@112 iﬂing-tum lﬂlii

OPINION

PAGE 2

ZSTAFF Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio?

lEDlITORIAl[.,

Now for an unwanted rant on an oft-discussed topic -
procrastination.

The act of delaying any necessary action or task is
looked upon in academic and business circles as a nega-
tive thing. We here at the Phi, however, feel that procras-
tination may be one of the greatest classes offered at any
college. During a lengthy session of procrastination, a
student may learn more in their wanderings than they
would in a classroom setting.

So in order to facilitate your next session of putting
things off, we would like to offer this list ofthings avail-
able to every student that can help you waste a whole
bunch oftime, and perhaps learn a lot as well.

You can: clean your room, check e-mail, look on the
web (check out www.procrastinators.com, it’s not done
yet but someone will get to it sometime soon), ﬂoss, bal-
ance your checkbook, talk to an elderly person (they have
better stories than anyone else), do dishes, go to Wal-
Mart (why not?), develop a sudden and overwhelming
interest in the appearance of your toenails, drink a 40, fall
asleep outside (only applicable during spring term), moni-
tor the progress of your favorite stocks on the CNBC
NYSE ticker (can be done while drinking a40), watch the
remains of four acres of pine forest burn in a controlled
ﬁre, watch the Colonnade Cam for an hour or two, write to
the Kevin McManemin fan club, sing with Radio-man,
play nasty pranks at lunch time involving a piece of chalk
and tires of cars parked along Washington Street, grab a
hammer and help out Habitat for Humanity’s latest project,
learn to ﬂy ﬁsh, analyze the lyrics to a song by the New
Kids on the Block or the plot line of a Brian Bosworth ﬁlm,
call a relative that you have not talked to in quite some
time, or walk around and single-handedly reinstitute the
speaking tradition.

Ifprocrastination did not exist, many things would be
different in all of our lives. First, this editorial might have
been funny. But also, we would not have gained much of
the valuable, if not useless information that we currently
possess. So keep putting everything off as long as pos-
sible, it may turn out to be the best thing you haven’t
done all day.

  

ote of the Week:

“He slimed me.”

— Anonymous sophomore girl making
an observation at Sigma Nu’s ‘Shipwrecked’

Party.

)2

They say that children need role models. I’m not ex-
actly certain who “they” is; I’m pretty sure it’s the same
omniscient “they” that say broccoli is good for you, don’t
swim for an hour after eating and never put salt in your
eyes. I have the sneaking suspi-
cion that “they” is the guy from
that ridiculous “wear sunscreen”
song.

But that’s neither here nor
there. (Actually, it’s definitely
there, but that’s neither here nor there either). The point
is that kids need role models, and in our unheroic age role
models are about as hard to come by as well-spoken Jerry
Springer guests.

In their inﬁnite wisdom, “they” say parents should be
children’s best role models. But in an age when divorce is
more common than ﬁghts on the Springer show, (sorry
for all the Springer gags, they were having a clearance
sale down at the comedy warehouse) the only contact
most kids have with their parents is through a monthly
child support check. And in an age when skipping child
support is as popular as lesbian stripper love triangles
on Springer (sorry), even that’s kind of iffy.

Back in the day kids didn’t need to look up to their
parents. Kids had real heroes like John F. Kennedy, Mickey

  

- »~\§ .

Spring term much
ado about nothin’

} I’m Not British
 Kevin Mdvlanemin ’00

Mantle and the Babe to idolize. Today we’ve got Teddy
Kennedy, Albert Belle and the entire NBA. Of course,
this disillusionment isn’t necessarily a bad thing. It turns
out Mantle and Ruth were both drunks, and when JFK
wasn’t cheating on his wife he was
secretly starting a war in Vietnam.
Anytime you elevate someone to hero
status, you can be sure they’ll only
disappoint.

Where have you gone, Joe
DiMaggio? He’s in the bathroom popping pills as his
wife Marilyn Monroe is out i"‘**ing the president.

No, our children don’t need heroes. What they need
are some good enemies.

Think about it. Nations work best when they’re ﬁght-
ing against somebody else. A people are never more uni-
ﬁed than when they’re marching off to war. If we want our
children to learn to work hard and work together, don’t
give them some hollow role models to blindly follow like
a ﬂock of sheep. Pick some other country or minority
group, spread the happy little seeds of hate and watch
the miracle of human nature take over.

You know, the other day I was talking about this with
my Russian mail—order bride Svetlana. I don’t speak Rus-
sian and neither of us speak particularly good English,

but we agreed on one thing: our nations were a lot hap-
pier when they had each other to hate.

“Svetlana, dear,” I said, “When I was a kid we were
always afraid you Krazy Kommies were going to nuke
us.”

“Green card come today,” she responded. “I leaving
you now.”

“And it turns out most of your nukes were just hol-
lowed out shells, but we still spent hundreds of billions of
dollars that we could have used to solve all our social

problems trying to compete with your empty shell produc- ‘-

tion, only to scrap most of our nukes in a bunch of worth-
less treaties in the eighties anyway. Boy, it sure is funny
how things work out sometimes, eh, darling? Darling?”

I don’t know where Svetlana went, probably to the
store, but when she gets back I think we’ll talk about
raising our children (we’ve already decided on names:
Yuri and Samantha). When the kids are old enough I’m
going to teach them about the godless Chinese who are"
responsible for all the problems of the world. Then I’ll
watch them shake themselves from the apathetic slumber
so many kids go through life with, and smile with pride as
my children attack the world with the energy of an en-
raged lesbian on Jerry Springer (sorry, but at those prices
I couldn’t afford not to buy the Springer gags).

\ ’.‘+/KT? My wife/I’ W/LL /</us.

(Ellie ‘tiling-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan

Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

W&Life Editors

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Erica Prosser
Sarah Meldrum

Senior Editors

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback"‘ do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://w1u.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

For twenty-four academic weeks it’ s
all we talk about. We watch snowﬂakes
fall, pound keyboards furiously in
darkened dorms, beg Mom and Dad
to replenish our Domino’s Depression
funds and wonder how 12 measly cred-
its could ever bring so much misery.
We dream sleep-deprived dreams of
the light at the end of the tunnel:
spring term.

Ah, that time .-
when students '
roll leisurely out
of bed for that
one class that
wouldn’t think of beginning before
noon, lounge lazily in the Front Lawn
sun, and guzzle beer luxuriously in

  

-— Goshen.-:   

Well, welcome to reality. Turns out
that one class is a hated gen-ed must,
begins at 8 a.m., has a 14 hour lab twice
a week, a mandatory attendance policy,
one of those profs who got tenure
back during the Civil War when cor-
poral punishment was cool, and a maxi-
mum grade of a C-.

Those students lazing on the Front
Lawn are calculatingly maximizing their
time by combining studying and tan-
ning, because who has time for both?
They’ ll smile tightly if you stop to say
hi, but they’re really thinking that the
ten minutes you spend socializing will
have to be taken out of dinner, which
will now consist of raw ramen. Oh, and
those dudes guzzling beer at Goshen
are sure gonna get theirs. Heh.

For the rest of us, the sun comes
out, as does the nauseating mix of
bright white limbs and fake tans. You
know who you are. And the only guz-
zling to be heard immediately follows
the cracking of a can of Slim-Fast as

wYankee<loodle-doo
 Polly Doig ’OO

we make up for a winter spent hiber-
nating around the heat of that
Domino’s box.

After much ado spring term arrives
and for roughly 380 seniors, minus ev-
erybody graduating with an Ernest
Williams degree and a nine-ﬁgure start-
ing salary, this means entering a con-
trolled panic. Anyone wishing instan-
taneous death
has only to
ask one ques-
tion, “gotta
job yet?”

The dream
that a W&L degree guarantees them a
place in society’s elite is over, and the
realization that Welfare is substantially
more proﬁtable than any of the incom-
ing job offers has hit. Instead of ﬁgur-
ing out how to attract employers’ at-
tention with sparkling resumes, soon-
to-be-grads are printing up “Will ex-
pound virtues of Kierkegaard for Natty
Light” signs in a sexy font and prac-
ticing the Phrase of the Future... “Do
ya want fries with that?”

Yes, once upon a time there was a
dream of a relaxing six weeks in April
and May. It was a pretty little dream,
and now lies broken amongst a ﬂurry
of midterms that came two weeks into
the term, allergies, interviews, and ’
last-minute arrangements to ﬁnd some-
thing useful to do with the summer.
We now recognize that spring term is
simply a guise to trap us into three
extra weeks of school. The only differ-
ence would seem to be the overwhelm-
ing sense of apathy with which we go
about cramming eight weeks of leam-
ing into six. Nobody cares.

I don’t care. Maybe somebody else
will ﬁnish this damn editorial...

MV€4,2/

4/’  '\

Memories of Buffalo Creek...

I

Baring all stops pedestrians, not war,

JAMES G. LEYBUFIN l..ll3RAFlY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVFHSII V
LEXONGTON. VA 24450

“Five women bare all in Madrid to protest war,” the
headline read. Apparently people who were lined up to
pay taxes in Madrid were treated to ﬁve women, covered
in brown paint, who shouted anti-Slobodan Milosevic
and anti-NATO slogans. After 15 minutes, the women
put their clothes back on and were escorted out by secu-
rity.

Nakedness protesting rampant chaos, destruction and
death? Oh, okay.
Thank goodness

Coffee Talk

you’re doing 
something use—  ' Heather McDonald ‘01
ful. . 

I understand
the concept of using shock as a way to call attention to a
particular cause, but this is really pretty ridiculous. How
is this going to stop any of the war? If I thought by
baring my chest I would provide a home for 100 refugees,
I wouldn’t hesitate to tear offmy shirt. But all that really
happened was that these ﬁve women called attention to
themselves and not their cause.

Lately, personal fame seems to be more ofa motiva-
tion for protest against injustice than the actual desire to
better the situation. Think back to about a year ago when
a group of students from American University were de-
tained in Myanmar (Burma) after passing out pro-democ-
racy pamphlets. The 17 or so students were thrown into
prison for violating Myanmar’s totalitarian laws. The en-
tire event became a media circus, with the leader ofthe
group declaring that they would continue to ﬁght totali-
tarianism and how they weren’t really afraid because they
knew that the United States would get them out eventu-
ally.

There’s nothing wrong with ﬁghting totalitarianism. I

rather like the idea. However, these students don’t seem
to understand that their joyride to Burma and a Burmese
prison may have resulted in Burmese citizens being harmed
for accepting their pamphlets. Again, what happened was
not magniﬁcent change but a media-fest celebrating the
protesters as celebrities.

Was anything done? No. Was anything changed? No.
Was any goal reached? No, unless the goal of the pro-

testers was to gain fame for themselves.

Noble causes are wonderful. lt’s even more wonder-
ful when people take up noble causes because they care
about the cause and want to make a difference. But if you
want to stop the war or free a nation, it’s going to take a
lot more than getting naked. Fifteen minutes of fame for
yourself under the guise ofa noble cause isn’t going to

feed a starving child.

Dear Editor,

I am writing in response to Kevin
McManemin’s April 26" column about
the Columbine High School shooting.
I am an alumnus and a teacher in the
area and I care deeply about tragedies
like this one. I also care about how we
shold react so something this horrible
will not happen again. I feel that Mr.
McManemin’s remarks are definitely
not the right solution.

I am particularly offended by his
statements about Christianity. He
stated that “Judeo-Christian moral-
ity has been around a long time and...
it hasn’t worked all that swimmingly.”
Personally, I haven’t seen a whole lot

V of morality or Judeo-Christian ethics

taught by Hollywood or our political
leaders. Have you? Mr. McManemin

LETTER To THE EDITOR

McManemin hatemail continues

goes on to blame Christianity for the
Spanish Inquisition and the Crusades.
This is bogus. You cannot blame a faith
for the grevious mistakes of some
deeply disturbed individuals. Our
leader, Jesus Christ, strived for and
even died for peace and happiness
among all people. Furthermore, I chal-
lenge anyone to find anywhere in the
Bible where God said for us to kill
people for His sake. Again, I cannot
emphasize how ridiculous this is.
Finally, and most importantly, Kevin
McManemin’s stupid remark “Hey
let’s teach kids about Jesus! Yeah,
great. Maybe instead of opening ﬁre
on jocks, they’ll just shoot up abor-
tion clinics instead,” was in very bad
taste and offends all Christians. Jesus
said in Matthew 5244 “Love your en-

emies, bless them that curse you, do
good to them that hate you, and pray
for them which despitefully use you
and persecute you,” and in John
15:17 “These things I command you,
that you love one another.” Does Mr.
McManemin really think that Christ
would therefore call for such horrors

as these mentioned? Is he really that “'

insensitive to make such a statement
in response to the Colorado tragedy
and others like it?

The way to deal with the Colum-
bine shooting is with love, under-
standing and vigilance to prevent it
happening again. Not with sarcastic,
offensive and insensitive remarks.
Thank you.

Sincerely,

Shawn Osolin ’94

X

 

MAY 10, 1999

W&

 

@1112 itiing-Glam ilﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 3 ,4

All’s well that ends Well: Ray says goodbye

By Eliarma Marziani
FEA TURES EDITOR

An annual Christmas card with a picture
of a moving van on it — Professor George
Ray grew up in a family that moved 11 times
in 16 years. Ray’s life has been full of changes,
the current one perhaps one ofthe larger ones
in his life. After serving the university as an
English professor for 35 years, Ray is enter-
ing phased retirement and will completely re-
tire after two years.

George Ray was born on December 4, 1932,
in Binghamtoii, New York. Far from ponder-
ing “To be or not to be?”, Ray wanted to be a
farmer when he grew up. He enjoyed haying,
threshing oats, and cutting corn, was think-
ing of attending Cornell and going into sci-
entific farming, and was all set to be a new
and improved “Old MacDonald.”

The Fates, though, had weaved different
plans for Ray. He ended up attending
Wesleyan University, where Professor Keith
Huntress led Ray on a tour guide through
T.S. Eliot’s “The Wasteland” in a sophomore
English class, and Ray liked it so much that

v he did not want to leave. Hejoined a bunch

of his friends and Chi Psi fraternity broth-
ers in becoming an English major. He even-
tually went on to receive both his masters
degree and Ph.D. in English language and
literature at the University of Rochester. First,
however, he needed to do his duty for the
Country.

For about 25 years in the middle of the
century (1948-1973), there was a peacetime
draft which required that any men who were
drafted serve in the military for a few years to
fill empty slots. This idea is totally foreign to
the current generation. However, a military
draft, for both peacetime and wartime, did ex-

Bye-bye I'€d €y€Z allergy I'€li€f May 21, 22, 24,1999 - 9 pm

By Erica Prosser
SEN/0R EDITOR

You may not see it right away, but there is
a thin layer of powder on your car. There’s
also a thin layer on the sidewalk. In fact, this
light powder is everywhere. And it may ex-

” plain why your eyes suddenly itch, why your

nose is running all ofa sudden and why you
find yourselfscurrying to the infirmary in the
search ofrelief.

Welcome to allergy season.

 

What are allergies? Exactly what they
V sound like. Allergies result from your body
having an allergic reaction to an allergen (al-
lergy-causing substance), such a pollen or
dust mites. Your body is reacting to expel the
substance, a reaction that is often called “too
much immunity.” Histamine is one of the

 

Photos courtesy of the Calyx
Then and now: Professor George Ray is

entering phased retirement after 35 years
of teaching English at W&L.

ist in the not-too-distant past.

In 1940, President Franklin Roosevelt ap-
proved the Selective Training and Service Act
of 1940, which created the first peacetime draft
in the United States and founded the Selec-
tive Service System to administer it. From 1948
until 1973, men were drafted to ﬁll positions
for which there were no volunteers. The draft
ended in 1973 and the army became all—vol-
unteer again, yet men are still required to reg-
ister for the draft as a safeguard against un-
expected shortages in the military in emer-
gency conditions.

Ray served as an officer in the marine corps
during the period that followed the Korean
War, from 1954 to 1957. He opted to take of-
ficers’ training, become an officer, and give a
three—year time commitment to the marines
rather thanjust serve as an enlisted man for 2
years.

Though the draft caused Ray to suspend
his education for a few years, it actually ended
up helping his education in the long run. The
monetary help ofthe G.I. Bill helped Ray af-

chemicals produced by your body to combat
allergens, and these chemicals are respon-
sible for the allergicreactions you have.

About 23-30 percent of the population has
these allergic-immune reactions to sub-
stances varying from pollen to food to bee
stings andjust about everything in between.
“Hay fever” is the general term for allergies
in the nose or sinuses, and it is usually what
we mean when we talk about seasonal aller-
gies.

Most sufferers have mild or moderate al-
lergy symptoms that are just an annoyance
or an inconvenience. When histamine is re-
leased all over the body at once, however,
life-threatening symptoms can result. Allergies
are responsible for about 10 million doctor visits
yearly in this country.

So, now that you know what allergies are,
do you have them? General allergy symptoms
include sneezing, runny nose, nasal and si-
nus congestion, sinus headache, fatigue and
itching of the eyes. Symptoms specific to
hay fever include itching ofthe eyes, sneez-
ing, itching of the roof of the mouth, nasal
congestion, sinus headaches and fatigue.

If you really have hay fever and you feel
horrible, what can you do? For starters, avoid
airborne pollen and spores by limiting your
time outside. If you must be outside, time it
right: grass pollinates between 6 a.m. and 10
a.m., so spend outside time in the early after-
noon if grass is your enemy.

If weeds are more your problem, aim out-
side time for the middle ofthe day, as weeds
pollinate at sunrise and sundown. Wind also

ford his masters and doctorate work
at the University of Rochester and
move forward into his career.

He served as an instructor for one
year at the University of Rochester and
then taught at the University of Vir-
ginia from 1962-1964. As he hadn’t
found the support he sought at the
time, Ray began looking for another
position. He learned that Dr. Fitzgerald
Flourney, a Washington and Lee pro-
fessor who was a Rhodes scholar and
what Ray describes as “one of the
greatest teachers of that era,” had died,
and Ray came to take his place. Ray
had some big shoes to fill. While he
claims, “I don’t think I’ve ever filled
them,” many people on campus would beg to
differ.

Senior English major Chris Edwards said,
“I’ve never had him in class, but he knows
my name, and he has always been very nice.”

Senior Chad Reynolds said, “[Ra_v’s] de-
parture marks the transformation of the En-
glish department... it’s sort ofthe beginning
ofthe end of an era.” About Ray’s teaching
style, Reynolds said, “He’s not easy, but he’s
not unjust . . . he makes you work, and he
makes you want to work.”

“Death Ray,” as his students, ex-students,
and any who have heard his reputation for
tough grading jokingly call him, has deﬁnitely
left his mark on the University.

After 35 years at W&L, Ray has seen quite
a few changes. Yet, he maintains that the most
important things have remained the same.

“There are some changes of a cosmetic
nature, but none really of a fundamental na-
ture. . . The [honor] system still works, the
close student-faculty relations, the spirit of
civility, mutual trust, mutual respect: I’d like

increases pollen and spore levels in the air,
so be wary of windy days.

When you drive, keep the windows rolled
up and the air conditioning on. Indoors, keep
your air conditioner or dehumidifier running
to help reduce indoor spore exposure. Fami-
lies with allergy problems should avoid indoor
pets and wall-to-wall carpeting, as well.

Over-the—counter antihistamines can help,
but if your symptoms persist or if you have
excessive sinus drainage and/or fever, con-
sult a doctor immediately; you might have an
infection that needs antibiotic treatment. Pre-
scription medications obtained from your
doctor may also help you battle the allergy
symptoms, but don’t expect them to work
right away; many such drugs need to be in
your system for a while before they take full
effect.

Allergy season is no fun for sufferers, but
there are ways to get relief. Act smart and
talk to a doctor ifyou are miserable. Then go
out and enjoy the gorgeous weather.

       

fﬂallﬂlvlillﬂ
0.5-ofq -I--ghnn
Oluinhivnlrvuoun-lull

mmgﬁ

 

F RAMEWORKS GALLERY

1 N. Main Street, downtown Lexington, Virginia (540) 464-6464

Civil War art and memorabilia
Robert E. Lee 8 Stonewall jackson War Date Documents
W8-L, VMI and Lexington art and collectibles
Limited edition art
Custom ﬂaming

Open:
Monday — Friday
10 a.m. — 6p.m.

Saturday
9 a.m. — 4 p.m.

 

to stress more the continuity at Washington
and Lee.”

Ray feels fortunate to have worked with
several generations of students.

“I regard it as a privilege to have some im-
pact on the development of their intellectual
lives,” Ray said. “I’m also grateful for having
the opportunity to grow as a teacher at a
school in an academic environment that is a
mutually supportive and caring community.
I’ve been blessed to be part of a department
with wonderful teachers and wonderful schol-

ars, and when the time comes for me to step _
aside, I’ll miss that." '

Ray plans to
spend retirement in
Lexington, continuing
research and remain-
ing connected to a
network of former stu-
dents and colleagues,
and occasionally
traveling with his
wife.

0 WILLIAM
-'-=7 SHAKESPEARE

mt COMPLETE
WORKS

 

 

 

T HEA T RE 65' MUSIC presents

“THE BEST OF
ALL POSSIBLE WORLDS”

        
  

  
 

Music by Leonard B
Book by Hugh Wheeler adapted from
Lyrics by Richard

John Latouche & Stephen So

    
 
  

May 23, 1999 - 2 pm

Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center
Tickets and Information 540/463-8000

sales/Mmketimg

Cl7ristian—l)aseb Us company

SEEKS SALES MANAGER TOR ANY
IDCATION IN THE USA. I

——-potei/iticil 3K mom
summeremp t

—j0otenl:iai K I17
eocce or sill?

ewqoloywievit

459-4459

 

PAGE 4

S

Elie filing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

MAY 10, 1999

Generals sweep ODAC

Team boasts seven All-ODAC players, ODAC Player of the Year, and ODAC
Coach of the Year, as Washington and Lee gears up for the NCAA tournament

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS WRITER

On Sunday afternoon the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team grabbed a ﬁrst-round bye for the upcoming
NCAA Division III Tournament, but that wasn’t the only
highlight of their week.

The Generals (13-1, 6-0) dominated the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference men’s lacrosse postseason honors
on Thursday and wrapped up the regular season with a 15-
2 pounding ofRando1ph—Macon on Wednesday.

Sophomore attackman Matt Dugan was named the
ODAC Player of the Year and head coach Jim Stagnitta
was named the ODAC Coach of the Year. Overall, seven
Generals were named ﬁrst or second team all-conference.

In his 10 years at W&L, Stagnitta has a lifetime record
of 106-38. Including this season, he has won four ODAC
Championships and has brought the Generals to the NCAA
tournament four times. ,

Dugan led the ODAC in goals (55), assists (26), and
points (81) this year and is just six goals and six points
away from breaking the W&L single-season records for
goals and points.

Dugan was joined on the ﬁrst team by junior attackman
Chris Brown, sophomore midﬁelder Pope Hackney, junior
defensemen Charlie Antrim, and sophomore defensemen
Pete Iwancio.

Junior attackman Colin Dougherty and sophomore
midﬁelder Bernie Norton were second team selections.

On Wednesday afternoon at Wilson Field, the Generals
wrapped up the regular season with their 12th straight win,
a 15-2 thrashing of Randolph-Macon.

With the victory, the Generals ﬁnished undefeated in
the ODAC for the ﬁrst time since 1993.

Dugan led all scorers with three goals and ﬁve assists,
and Dougherty tallied four goals and one assist.

The Generals took a 2-0 lead with 5:55 left in the ﬁrst
quarter on a goal by Dugan, but two minutes later the
Yellow Jackets (9-6, 1-5) struck back with a goal by senior
attackman Dan Carver to cut the Generals’ lead to 2- 1.

But it would be all W&L after that point, as the Generals
scored 13 consecutive goals and held the Yellow Jackets
scoreless for more than 28 minutes. Randolph-Macon
added their second goal with 5:03 remaining in the game to

Econo
Lodge

—Parents’ discount
—Newly renovated

—Free Continental
breakfast

540-463-7371

—Free HBO with remote
—No smoking rooms

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

No room for debate: the men’s lacrosse team closed their ODAC Champion-
ship regular season on Wednesday with a 15-2 win against Randolph Macon.

make the ﬁnal score 15-2.

The Generals play in the quarterfinals
of the NCAA Tournament on Saturday
aﬁemoon at Wilson Field against either
Ohio Wesleyan or Denison, who will
play each other on Wednesday for the
right to come to Lexington.

The Generals defeated Denison
last year 16-13 in the ﬁrst round of the
NCAA Tournament and lost to Ohio
Wesleyan 15-6 in the quarterﬁnals.

Gleltir

 

Glartans anh Artessnries

19 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 464-6545

Qlnnnertinn

iﬂine gifts frmn Zlrelanh, gvrntlanh,
anh the Iﬁritislt Elsles

must: ﬂlinens Knitwear
Zllnnhs ﬁift Zlline Qlltina
(Krystal (llertifirates Jletuelrg
Religious Zltems iﬂrints lﬂunlzs

tﬁift Baskets Qlnllertahles lﬂrihal Registry

Authorized Caithness Glass Gallery

www.celticconnex.com
email:regina@celticconnex.com
Toll Free 1-877-celticz

Scoring Summary

1 2 3 4 Final
W&L (13-1) 4 4 7 0 15
RMC (9-6) 1 0 0 1 2

Academic.‘

ms ram snucamm LOAN
call toll-free 1-877-310-3456 for more information.

Woman among men

By Frances Groberg ‘

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior co-captain Cory Mettee
started playing lacrosse in the third
grade. But there was something dif-
ferent about her beginning.

“I had to play in the boys’
league because there was no
girls’ program near where I
lived,” Mettee said. “So for
two years, I learned how to
play in full equipment.”

Now she plays a form of
men’s lacrosse on a
women’s lacrosse ﬁeld.

In her four years play-
ing women’s lacrosse at
Washington and Lee, Mettee has
shown that she is not afraid to use
physical strength as well as skill to
ward off opponents. She loves to win,
and she’s not afraid to show it.

“You always want Cory to look at
you and tell you you played well,” jun-

 

ior co-captain Katherine Riddle said.
“She just loves lacrosse.”

Her unconventional style seems to
have paid off, as Mettee was awarded
All-ODAC honors this season. It also
helped to motivate this year’s ex-
tremely young team.

“Cory wants to win, and
she expects you to play
hard, Head Coach Jan
Hathorn said. “It was a
good example as to how to
get up and play every game
as hard as you can,”

Mettee considers la-
crosse one of the most posi-
tive influences on her life.

“It taught me how to be
competitive in a healthy sense, to be a
humble winner and a good loser in‘
every aspect of life,” she said.

“Without Cory, I think the team will
lose some of its spirit and ﬁre,” Riddle
said. “There’s just something about
her that makes everyone play well.”

1999 has been a successful year
for sports here at Washington and
Lee. From ODAC Championships

Championship Teams
Volleyball
Swimming

Men’s lacrosse
Men’s tennis
Women’s tennis
Golf

Freshmen of theYear
Lindsay Ruckert (Volleyball)
Paul Wallace (Men’s soccer)

Jessica Mentz
.(Women’s basketball)

W&L ODAC All-Stars

to Players of the Year, Rookies of the
Year to Coaches of the Year, the Ring-
tum Phi salutes them once again.

Players of the Year
Mikel Parker (Men’ s soccer)
Margaret Hoehl
(Women’s swimming)
Matt Dugan (Men’s lacrosse)

Coaches of the Year
Tern‘ Dadio-Campbell (Volleyball)
Kiki Jacobs-Moore (Swimming)
Jim Stagnitta (Men’s lacrosse)
Jeff Stickley (Baseball)
Kevin Moore (Golf)

_ . KEALL)’
Introducing the edge youAneed for college.

To pay for all the essentials traditional ﬁnancial aid won’t cover, get the AcademicEdge‘"‘ Loan.
Low interest rates. Easy to apply. Make no payments in school. Flexible repayment after you graduate.

99

©1999 Chela Financial

http://AcademicEdge.chelaFinancial.com

 

‘ﬁt

It

!'\

‘\ /1 if: 4.’...

.51‘ ’ 

    

i

RG11: ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 102, No. 4

Buffalo Cree
plays it loud

Students and locals alike enjoy a safe
weekend with nothing in moderation

By Michael R. Crittenden

STAFF WRITER

With the fragrant smell of
patchouli and burning couches in
the air, the Washington and Lee stu-
dent body celebrated the Buffalo
Creek Music Festival this weekend
with all the craziness students have
come to expect.

“It was incredible,just amazing,”
said freshman Meg Doyle of her first
festival experience. “ I couldn’t be-
lieve that many people would all be
out there partying and having a good
time.”

Co-funded by Greek organizations
and the SAB, this year’s festival in-
cluded student favorites Agents of
Good Roots, the Zen Tricksters, and
the Ominous Sea Pods as well as the
W&L student band Barclay
Honeywood. The lineup, organized
by senior Chris Noland, also included
the reggae band Zion Wave, the Disco
Biscuits and Humunculous. Senior
Chris Edwards, a member of Barclay
Honeywood, said the experience was
great for him and fellow
bandmembers.

“As a senior I was really excited
to play at Buffalo Creek, something
I’ve waited four years to do,” said
Edwards. “It was really fun to play
outside on a real sound system in
front of fellow students and the at-
mosphere was great."

Beautiful weather was another
positive for the festival, which was
threatened by rain and cold weather
on Friday. Saturday’s clear sunny
skies and mid-80s temperature made
it.a perfect day for students to relax
in the river, listen to bands and prac-

tice their favorite past time —— party-
ing.

“It was a blast,” said freshman
Helen Downes. “Just a constant 48-
hour drunkeness.”

A veteran from last year’s festi-
val, Downes said that she thought the
weekend was a great success and that
the musical lineup was fantastic. All
in all, she said things were relatively
peaceful.

“There was some friction between
the frat guys and the hippies follow-
ing the bands, but for the most part I
think people were just having a good
time listening to the music and party-
ing,” said Downes.

In what has turned into a Spring
Term ritual for festival goers, this
year’s Buffalo Creek once again saw
the burning of old couches and fur-
niture on Saturday night. The tradi-
tion, mythically spawned at festivals
past by seniors celebrating their im-
pending graduation, was alive and
well this year, with students burning
anything and everything they could
find.

Said sophomore Christie Phillips,
“ The guys were getting all fratty and
crazy around the campfires late
night. They were burning couches,
chairs, small forest creatures— any-
thing they could get their hands on.
It was great and the whole school
was there.”

This year also saw the continu-
ance of the less practiced tradition of
ﬂre walking which an intoxicated
W&L student invariably attempts
late on Saturday night. This year’s
sacrifice was sophomore Patrick
Wright who was seen bravely at-
tempting to traverse the ﬂames. De-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 17, 1999

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Phi Kappa Psis . . . take a dip in their Nissan mobile kiddie pool at the Buffalo Creek Music Festival on Saturday.

Kesey advises W&L:

scribing his attempt, Wright said it
has probably been blown out of pro-
portion.

“It was no big deal, I just tried to
jump through the ﬂames and sort of
fell through the fire to the other side.
Everyone oohed and ahhed, and went
nuts, but it wasn’t like I caught on
fire,” said Wright. Wright survived
the perilous attempt without injury
and said that reports of him catching

on fire and lighting up like a marsh-
mallow were false.

Overall the festival was another
great success with a mixed bag of stu-
dents and hippies relaxing and enjoy-
ing the music at Zollman’s. Junior
Dillon Whisler summed up student
reaction, saying:

“It was a hell ofa show. The bands
were great— it was mad craziness, tom-
foolery and fun for all.”

Rehnquist makes his case at 144*“
LawsSchool commencement

By Hollister H. Hovey

ASSOC]/t TE EDITOR

Justice rode into Lexington yes-
terday to send 1 18 future lawyers off
into the world.

United States Supreme Court Chief
Justice William Rehnquist delivered
the commencement address at the
Washington and Lee School of Law.

The University awarded both
Rehnquist and former law school
dean Roy Lee Steinheimer, Jr. honor-
ary doctor of law degrees.

Rehnquist’s speech was not po-
litical. He solely warned the gradu-
ates not to be consumed by money
and to love the law, no matter where
they ended up practicing it.

“It’s only natural to want to maxi-

 AT LONG LAST! Following seven years of higher educa
Executive Committee president Beth Formidoni ‘96, ‘99L receives her Juris
Doctor from Washington and Lee University President John W. Elrod.

mize your opportunities now that you
have graduated — or to put it another
way, ‘to go for the brass ring,’”

' Rehnquist said in his address. “This

is a commendable instinct, and will
serve you well in the practice. But in
making vour decision, it is of utmost
importance that you decide for your-
self which ring is the brass one.”

Many students found Rehnquist’s
speech very appropriate for the oc-
casion.

“I think it was a fantastic person
to come speak,” Executive Commit-
tee president and law school grad
Beth Formidoni said. “I thought it was
really great that he tailored his com-
ments to law students and spoke to
things that would be relevant for us.”

This was Rehnquist’s second of-

‘photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
tion in Lexington,

ﬁcial visit to W&L in recent years.
Rehnquist also delivered the eulogy
at the funeral of his fellow justice and
W&L alumnus Lewis F. Powell earlier
this year.

“It’s always an honor to have
someone of the Chief Justice’s dis-
tinction here on campus,” President
John Elrod said. “I thought he gave
some very down-to-earth and com-
mon sense advice to these gradu-
ates. Lawyers have lots of options
and they ought to be clear about the
one that’s most suitable to them and
choose it.”

In addition, Dean of the Law
School Barry Sullivan addressed the
graduates, saying, “I am conﬁdent
that each of you will succeed, per-
haps not at first, and perhaps not with-

out much effort and perseverance,
but I know that each of you will suc-
ceed.”

    

 

ph y i y m/Photo Editor

U.S. Chief Justice Rehnquist

Drive-in done?

By Daniel J . Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

Lexington has already lost Harris Teeter this year, and
now another landmark may be gone as well.

Hull’s Drive-In has been a family entertainment standby
since the summer of 1950, when the movie “Wake of the Red

 _ _ Witch” starring John Wayne graced the screen for the first

time. Back then it was called Lee Drive-In before Sebert Hull
bought it in 1957. Hull died last year and the business was
purchased by Goad’s Body Shop, located next to the the-
ater. According to The News-Gazette, Goad planned on
keeping the theater open, but that may not occur after all.
“I would love to see [the drive-in] open again this year,”
Goad said. “But it’s just not feasible to open it right now.”
Because of changes in film formatting over the years, the
projector used at Hull’s has become obsolete, and would
cost $35,000 to replace. Overall, according to Goad, it would
take nearly $60,000 in repairs for the theater to re-open this
season. Also, ﬁlm companies are now charging substan-
tially more to show the movies, and that would limit the type
and amount of movies that Goad could afford to purchase.
Goad said that he could raise ticket prices to cover the
costs, but even if the ticket price was doubled the theater
would still not be close to breaking even for the season.

By Hollister H. Hovey

ASSOCIA TE EDITOR

When psychedelic author Ken
Kesey agreed to come speak at Wash-
ington and Lee University, no one
was sure what to expect. At the very
least, he spouted words quite possi-
bly never uttered before in Lee
Chapel.

During his Thursday night speech,
Kesey opened his address playing a
tune on a Native American pipe used
in mating rituals, called for a ban on
bullets, a big dump on Kosovo and
more marijuana husbandry.

At the book signing afterwards,
he passed around liquor.

Then Kesey jettisoned his poli-
tics at the crowd. He read his essay
on the Springfield, Ill. school
shootings published in Rolling
Stone last year.

“I was a little bit freaked out when
he started reading out of Rolling
Stone because I didn’t know where
was going with the speech, but once
he started talking it was awesome,”
junior Contact member Roshni Nirody
said. “I’m sure he said a lot ofthings
that have never been said in Lee
Chapel before.”

Many felt that Kesey’s outspoken
opinions were good for the students
to hear.

“I think that we listen to the same
thing over and over here, so hearing
something different now and then is
really nice,” junior Contact member

  make love not war

Chip Westerman said.

The overwhelming theme of
Kesey’s address was what he called
“old hippie bullshit” — make love not
war. He said the crisis in Kosovo
could be stopped without killing by
dropping thousands of gallons of
urine on the city. It would destroy
morale and give NATO the upper-
hand. If it didn’t work, Kesey claimed,
“we would just drop something
heavier.”

Kesey’s love stopped when it
came to personal political enemies,
though. National Riﬂe Association
president Charlton Heston, Virginia
Military Institute commencement
speaker and notorious Watergate
felon G. Gordon Liddy and Washing-
ton and Lee alum and fellow author,
Tom Wolfe ‘SI came under attack.

Wolfe’s “The Electric Kool-Aid
Acid Test” chronicled the psychedelic
cross-country bus trips Kesey and
other writers made during the 1960s
and 1970s. Wolfe was an outsider to
Kesey’s drug culture, but he capital-
ized on the movement, and according
to Kesey, inaccurately.

“When people brought books that
Tom Wolfe had signed, he kind of
signed right over Tom Wolfe’s signa-
ture,” Nirody said.

“He was a shocking speaker,”
Contact chair Jason Hahn said. “It was
interesting that he chose something
of current interest. I thought he had
some creative ideas about solving the
crisis in Kosovo.”

May 17, 1999

OPINION:

W&L1EE:

SPORTS:

@112 ‘ﬁling-tum ilﬁlti

Kesey trippin’, little study abroad aid

Candide, Star Wars near curtain calls

Denison surprises Men’s lax

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

5
i

on-.—.~:T. -.w-.—v- a - .-.v-.—.... .. -4..., . ... -.-

_._.,._.2....._....._._ ._._ , ....... « ..._;- ._._.__.-_._-.. .._..A.__-..c._..._..u...u-_v .-_.....-.;......__E.._._-....._.....____ ._.-_E._..... -. .-....:._.Av..._-._._.__ « ;_ VD"'T>"V"'D‘a~4-"voqn-

 

MAY 17, 1999

O

 

@112 ﬂting-tum Zlﬂlii

PINION

PAGE 2

STA:
DTUIURIAL

To the university’s beneﬁt, Washington and Lee has at-
tempted to encourage a greater percentage of its students
to study abroad. In doing this, this school has done a num-
ber of things correctly. Expanding programs, establishing
an international education ofﬁce, and holding study abroad
fairs, for instance.

And yet the university has neglected one major part of
the study abroad experience — financing.

There are a number of students who attend W&L on full
merit scholarships, and then those who are here on need-
based ﬁnancial aid. It is understood that in investing in
these students, they will become successful in that place we
call the “real world,” and represent the university well aﬁer
graduation. _

Every year we watch the endowment climb. The presi-
dent of the university is prominently featured in a magazine
article boasting about how W&L avoids the “Robin Hood
effect” in setting its tuition rates. Each fall. we listen to Dean
Howison pontiﬁcate about how W&L students are the
happy—go-luckiest in the nation. Well, great guys. But there’s
still a real world out there beyond the reaches of Red Square,
and maybe those of us who are here because of our merits
(instead of our relatives) or in spite of our financial back-
grounds, should get the chance to get out there and see it.
It’d be great if there was some financial support there for
those who can’tjust slap down daddy’s VISA number.

Yet if W&L wants to further ensure that these students
will be successful after graduation, they must not limit the
academic experience of these students by holding them on
campus with financial ties. At present, these merit and need-
based scholarships do not transfer to study abroad experi-
ences.

In a world that is becoming increasingly whole-world
rather than nationally oriented, study abroad is a crucial
experience to those looking to become successful. To re-
main competitive in this type of world, W&L must not limit
the experiences of its students to the Shenandoah Valley. Its

/I

. students must travel, experience, and come to understand
 the wider world. The university must adopt a policy that
j allows merit-based scholarships to transfer to study abroad
i programs.

C’mon W&L, put all that money where your mouth is.

  
   
 

z
4
h

‘iiote of the Week:

‘in.

“Find out what a
breast is before you
write about it.”

— News Editor Dan Grattan.

J}
@112 Ring-tum ilﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan

W&Life Editors Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Erica Prosser
Sarah Meldrum

Senior Editors

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes fucking
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu.ea'u/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Last Thursday night I sat in Lee Chapel and listened
to unreformed hippie Ken Kesey playing his fish ﬂute
and discussing the geopolitical benefits ofdropping acid
on the Serbs instead of bombs.

I went home and checked my calendar. Sure enough,
May 13, 1999. Almost 30 years after Woodstock. Within a
few years ofthat boomer-nostalgia-fest Jim and Jimi and
Janis were dead of overdoses and hippies starting turn-
ing in their beads and ﬂowers forjobs
with good dental beneﬁts and nice
40 l K plans.

Perhaps Kesey didn’t get the 
memo that the sixties ended. My par-
ents certainly did (in fact I think my
mom got it in early 1958 but that’s
another story). We all learned that peace is impossible,
drugs rot the brain and love causes nasty diseases. Didn’t
we? After long thought I came up with three possible
explanations as to what Kesey might be doing at W&L:

l) Kesey is stuck in the sixties and he came here be-
cause we’re stuck in the sixties too. I think 1962 was the
last time anyone in academia thought a homogeneous
student body and a frat-centered social system were good
ideas.

2) Kesey and the Merry Pranksters devoted their lives

Sorority houses
not the answer

A lot ofpeople are looking forward to the completion
of Washington and Lee’s five sorority houses. I must
admit, however, that I’m not one of them.

As it is, I do not think that sororities provide a divid-
ing influence on the women who choose to be in one.
Members of different sorority houses still have a chance
to eat and live with each other. Your best friends don’t
necessarily have to be members of your sorority.

With the arrival ofthe sorority houses, however, this
will all change.

There is a rumor circulating that that bureaucracy we
all call “the university” has come up with the bright idea
to make junior girls live in the houses.

I don’t think so.

This is because if Gaines Hall becomes empty or partly
empty, the school will lose money on room and board
fees.

Still, I don’t
think so.

As a sopho-
more, I have all
the freedom in
the world, at
least to a certain extent. A friend of the male sex can stop
by, no matter what time of the night, and even sleep on
the couch if he wants. I can eat with whoever I want, and
I don’t feel responsible to anyone.

To go from this to the regulations that would exist in
the sorority house would be like going from a year at
college back to having a curfew at home.

Not that this didn’t happen.

In the sorority houses, there can be no boys on the
second ﬂoor after a certain hour of the night.

In addition to this, I’m going to turn 21 soon. Off cam-
pus, I would be able to drink with my friends, who will all
be 21 before I will, without worrying about university
policy for on-campus housing. I think that the future jun-
iors, who will be the ones affected by these new policies,
would like the same thing.

According to national sorority rules, there would be
no alcohol allowed on the premises of the houses, no
matter how old the women living there would be.

All in all, I don’t think that thejuniors on this campus
will go for it. I know I don’t. My personal suggestion
would be that the university make sorority housing the
same for the women as for the guys — sophomore year,
you live in the house, along with a couple of the sorority’s
officers.

Junior year, students could then move into Gaines Hall
or Woods Creek, with modified rules involving alchohol
to accommodate those who have reached drinking age.
It’s cheaper than living off campus, and with the new
rules, no one would have a problem.

Senior year, students could move off-campus. Since
the juniors would still be on campus, there wouldn’t be
such a high demand for off campus housing. Landlords
would be forced to lower rent prices.

See? Everyone happy? I sure think so.

/‘(I

L,.I,.... 
2 ""“"" .

  

Frances Groberg ’01

 

 The Kevin McManemin
Experience

4: Atop My Soapbox

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Don’t1etthe streak die!

Dear Editor,

I am shocked that no one wrote me a complaint
letter this week. I find it appalling that people on this
campus are so apathetic that they can’t even ﬁnd the
time to bitch.

Aren’t there any more alums out there who want
to counter my humor with poorly-thought-out argu-
ments and unrelated Bible quotes?

Please, somebody stop me before I joke again.

Sincerely, ‘

Kevin McManemin ’00

Dear Kevin,

Please stop writing to me. This is a huge conﬂict
of interest. It can ’t continue. And please don ’t say
bitch in the paper anymore.

Sincerely,

The Editor

to freaking out squares and man, you couldn’t ask for a
squarer bunch this side ofa Star Trek Convention.

3) Kesey realizes that we’re young.

Yes, we’re young. We may not look it in our ties and
blue blazers and we may not always act it or even think it,
but the fact remains that most of us are hovering some-
where around the twenty year mark. The true spirit of the
hippies — the spirit of irresponsibility — will always live
on as long as there are twenty-
year-olds around. And Kesey
knows this, just as well as he
knows the proper temperature for
growing cannabis plants. (answer:
room temperature)

Sure, things are different be-
tween our generations. For one thing, our parent’s music
was far better. They had Zeppelin and Hendrix and Pink
Floyd, we’re stuck with mediocre suck-rock like Dave
Matthews and Agents of Unremarkable Song Writing
(Good Roots, sony, I always get that name wrong). Dylan
and Lennon and Morrison were concerned with writing
lyrics that were pure poetry; Biggie, Tupac and Easy-E
were concerned with seeing how many times they could
fit the N-word into each line.

Our parents also had a much better war to ﬁght. Alright,

op Ttttalking ‘bout my gggeneration

Vietnam wasn’t exactly fun, in fact it pretty much sucked,
but you’ve got to admit that the war made for some great
movies. I doubt any future Palme D’Orr winners will be
about the Kosovo conﬂict. Sure, we’re both getting to
bomb innocent civilians, but it’sjust not the same, you
know? Our war is all done by computers. Where’s the
personal touch? Where’s the torturing of suspected en-
emy spies and the [censored to cut the potential inunda-
tion of hate mail]? When we leave the atrocities up to
machines we lose our humanity. '

Come to think of it, our generation has done practi-
cally nothing remotely interesting to distinguish itself.
What fashion trends have we come up with to confound
our elders? Body piercing. Hey, great. Our parents re-
belled through sex and drugs, we rebelled by shoving
sharp shards of metal in our skin. Who do you think got
the better slice ofthe generational pie?

Kesey came to W&L because he knows that inside _

the body of every C-school major beats the heart of a
twenty—year-old who wants to get wasted, get laid, play
the electric guitar and give the middle ﬁnger to society.
Kesey came here to remind us of who we really are. Either
that or for the generous check from the big-spending
Contact Committee, but, hey man, that can’t be it, capital-
ism is a drag, you dig?

Htixsc ?- ~ A L;
l7P/r"u\&r:t7 157/ V ;»’\i'L’.
(T T0 iv’\M er...‘ C«;g”:i\/\(;>t~J"T' ~.
912./¢AKiM/o WT“
i'>6rvlcr:£i&ii‘tc -'rl'Q RT
\’~’F*TF9iZ-Ce/we moat,

“ENE”

A9 it/six‘! (0 R9 Yet]

r‘0pl,e‘»’v' €17 0"iZDE'?'—9~

/N12 ‘xvi:-or Tl-iE.

./ ,. __ _ r__,..’,,-L
 “V You? Lire
(><t7\1’o(./rm N (5
"&L»t>“i.t-qtltn 42%‘: If U 7-

.\\w/

Helpful hints for seniors

In a few days, seniors will leave behind the columned
splendor of W&L for the greener pastures of the real world.
What do you mean “columned” isn’t a word? Well I don’t
care what the dictionary says, everyone knows what I mean.
Oh, forget the columns then. The point is that seniors are
leaving. and the real world can he a scarv place for the
woefully unprepared. So, as part of our court-mandated
community service program, the Phi proudly presents:

The Graduating Seniors’ Guide to the Real World
(alphabetized for your protection)

Bosses

Bosses are just like professors;
they like nothing better than having
lots of smoke blown up their asses.
Remember — you can’t spell “suc-
cess” without “suc,” so start sucking up today and you’ll
be on the fast track in no time.

.«

"3.

Civilization

Many of you will get jobs in big cities. Adjusting to
civilized society can be tough — especially if you move to
the North where people lack the warmth, courtesy and large
sloping brows of Southerners. Not only doesn’t New York
have a speaking tradition, but if you extend the obligatory
W&L “how’s it going” head nod to someone on the sub-
way you’re likely to be pushed into an oncoming car.

Cooking for One
Alright, guys, the fraternity house cook won’t be mak-

ing your meals anymore. It’s up to you to either cook your
own meals or ﬁnd a girlfriend who will. Unfortunately we
live in an age when women will accuse guys ofbeing male
chauvinist pigs for so much as suggesting that a woman
cook for them. So unless you’re willing to risk being per-
sonally picketed by NOW, it’s better to learn to ﬁnd suste-
nance on your own. Here’s a few of my favorite guy-friendly
recipes to get you started:
Microwave dinners
Take out of box. Put in microwave. Cook until done. Eat
until ﬁnished.
Pizza
Call Dominoes. Wait thirty minutes. Pay at door. Perfect
for lunch or dinner, and leftovers are great for breakfast.
Macaroni and Cheese and Ketchup
Possible but not suggested.

(wit  The Five—Year Plan
‘<4. .  Kevin McManemin ‘00

Dating

For the last four years you’ve lived in a fantasy land of
random drunken hook-ups and a social calendar conve-
niently stuffed with date functions. In the real world, dat-
ing is a bit different. Many of you will be tempted to ask out
vour co-workers, but I strongly advise against this. If there’s
one thing I’ve learned from NBC’s Must See TV it’s that
dating co-workers leads to hilarious but ultimately tragic
situations.

Luckily, thanks to the Internet, singles have a great new
way to meet people with similar interests. If you’re lucky
enough to ﬁnd true love on the Web,
you might even ﬁnd yourself having
cybersex.

BigDaddy: I’m stroking your left
thigh now.

HotBlonde: Ooooh! Ooooh!

BigDaddy: I’m gently massaging your breasts.

HotBlonde: Oh BigDaddy! Oh yes!

BigDaddy: I’m showing you two tickets to “Star Wars:
The Phantom Menace.”

HotBlonde: OH YES! YES! YES! YES!

Drinking
In the real world, getting piss drunk every night isn’t

D‘.-

‘Y

considered cool. Read that sentence again. Go on, I want it ‘

to sink in. Studies show that the typical W&L mind can’t
recognize that string of words as a coherent thought until
the second or third reading. Take another pass at it. Got it
now? Yeah, that’ s a doozy of a brain—tickler, ain’t it?

The real world views alcoholism as a “problem,” unless !*

you’re a poet in which case it’s pretty muchpar for the
course. So perhaps it wouldn’t be a bad idea to spend a
couple of weeks after graduation in detox. After four years

here, you’re going to need at least a month in the drunk ’.

tank to flush all the Natty out of your system.

Vacation
Your summer vacations are gone. Christmas vacation,

Thanksgiving, Spring break and Feb break are now con-A,

densed into about a week or two or paid vacation days.
How are you ever going to ﬁt all your relaxation and slack-
ing off into two short weeks?

Answer: You don’t have to! God bless the U.S. ofA! In
America, we relax on thejob. Just think ofthe real world as
one big, long Spring term. Sure, there’s technically work to
be done, but...eh. I’m going to Goshen.

£2.

 

2‘

N

4.

A

I.

i.

MAY 17, 1999

W&L

I112 iﬂing-Clam lﬂlii

IF E

PAGE 3

Not the old song and dance: Candide to delight crowds

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA runes EDITOR

A bastard cousin falls in love with a king’s
daughter. Said king kicks him out because he’s
a pauper. He goes on a journey with priests,
soldiers, and pirates, and learns to live in the
real world— all while singing. . .

Not the story of your roommate’s life be-

‘fore he came to Washington and Lee, this is
the plot of Candide, the major spring term pro-
duction of the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity theater and music departments. Al Gor-
don of the theater department is directing
Candide, with Scott Williamson and Barry
Kolman in charge ofvocals and musical direc-
tion.

Sophomore Josh Chamberlain plays the
title role. Explaining some ofthe interesting
and unique challenges of his role, he said,
“I have to do a lot of kissing and taking
off my clothes.”

Candide is not the story of a New York strip
club, despite what Chamberlain’s remarks
might lead you to believe. Actually, Candide
is a musical, a comic operetta. It is Voltaire’s
satire on opera including about 20 songs in its
less than 2 hours ofplaytime. It is a major pro-

duction, full of plot twists and scene changes.
Up to 30 people will be on stage at the same

time. Some actors play up to seven different
parts, frantically changing from costume to
costume as the scene changes from El Dorado

to Monte Video to a scene
from the Inquisition to a ren-
dezvous with pirates.

Candide is the story of an
optimistic, idealistic youth
who encounters endless ad-
ventures in which evil pow-
ers of society loom in his
path and threaten to consume
him. Mishap follows mishap,
catastrophe follows catastro-
phe, and through all this
Candide learns to accept the
cruel realities that are some-
times present in life and find
happiness in spite of it all.
While the philosophical plot
imagined by Voltaire has great
value, it is by no means the
only or most important attrac-
tion of Candide.

The students involved
consistently cited the comic
aspects of the play, the en-
gaging music, and the bril-
liant costumes as some of the
play’s best features.

Senior Drew Higgs, who
plays both the narrator fig-
ure of Dr. Voltaire and
Candide’s instructor Pangloss, claims that the
play features some ofthe best music he has
heard yet. This is not surprising, as the mu-

sic was composed by music legend Leonard
Bernstein, with witty lyrics the result ofthe
combined genius of Richard Wilbur, John

Coming soon to a galaxy near you

, Sneak peek at Star Wars: The Phantom Menace and its stellar following

4

1

A

.5‘:

i.

By Shazi Niazi

S 7.4 FF WRITER

“May the force be with you.”

Sound familiar? If you have been even semi-
conscious the last few weeks, it should. New
fan clubs and chat rooms devoted solely to
Star Wars have sprung up everywhere. Star
Wars web sites are accessible from all sorts of
popularly used web sites, from the front page
of popular intemet and e-mail providers like
Yahoo and America Online, to news sites like
that of CNN.

The culprit responsible for this cultish
havoc that is being wreaked all over the U.S.?
The new Star Wars movie, the prequel to the
trilogy that was re-released last year: The Phan—
tom Menace. The good thing is that it has fi-
nally almost arrived.

The new Star Wars, Episode I, The Phan—
tom Menace (or whatever other name you want
to call it), arrives in theaters this Wednesday
(or Tuesday at midnight). Probably the most
astonishing part ofthis entire story is the fact
that the movie will debut at our very own the-
ater, here in quaint, peaceful Lexington!

The Phantom Menace has been receiving
bad reviews from many ofthe critics who have
attended advance screenings. However, this is
not stopping hundreds ofpeople all across the
country from waiting in line all night to get the
first tickets. At Mann’s Chinese Theatre in Hol-
lywood, where the original Star Wars premiered
in 1977, people have been waiting outside in
line for weeks. According to Reuters, a Mil-
waukee, Wis., theater is advertising 75’ by 36’
screens, leather seats and gourmet food “such
as chicken tenderloin and potato skins.” I think
the last time I checked, the Lexington theater
"was planning to do the same.

A W&L freshman was caught Friday night
running through dorm halls, showing off his
ticket for the Tuesday-at-midnight ﬁrst show-

ing ofthe movie. This, of course, is all crazy
to me. I think I can contain myself for a few
extra days considering that the world has al-
ready had to wait sixteen years.

For those of you who haven’t been bar-
raged with the facts and story ofthis movie,
here is the general idea. The plot revolves
around the peaceful Galactic Republic and
the threatening Trade Federation. The Trade
Federation is .

  

Obi-Wan isn’t the respectable old guy that
he was before (which, remember, is actually
the future). Now he’s the respectable brave,
studly, young guy. Anyway, these two
guys decide to save Naboo. They strap on
their lightsabers and go find the young
Queen Amidala, played by Natalie Portman,
so they can whisk her offto safety. Some-
where along the way some fighting hap-

pens, and they

 

the greedy Q - end up on
bunch of bad Tatooine.

guys that do Along the way,
evil things for they pick up a little
fun. They are slave boy named
controlled by Anakin Skywalker.
Darth Maul The kid has got
and Darth crazy force poten-
Sidious, who tial, so they drag
happens to him along, and
be the Phan— eventually he ends
tom Menace ‘ H _ V_ up being the Darth
referred t0 in A Photo c rtesy www.csmonior.com that made US all
the llll€- TAKING IT A LITTLE SERIOUSLY: Star Wars fans Pmud in the PFeVi'
(Hope I dress as SW character Darth Vader as they 0“ movies ' ' ' that
didn,t ruin it await the release of Star Wars prequel The take place later‘
for you Phantom Menace Also you get to
there!)All of ' meet that freaky

this precedes the Empire and Rebels we
learned to love in the first three, which
are actually the last three, Star Wars
movies.

Apparently, lots ofgentle, happy people
live on Naboo, a planet ruled by the Repub-
lie and terrorized by the Federation. Back
on the planet of Coruscant, the capital of
the shining Republic, Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-
Wan Kenobi are chillin’ in the Jedi Temple.
Qui-Gon Jinn, played by formerly respect-
able actor Liam Neeson, is the what all the
reporters on Phantom Menace are calling
the “venerable Jedi Knight”. Qui-Gon Jinn
trains Obi-Wan, played by Ewan McGregor.

Emperor with the Zeus-like abilities; now,
though, he’s only a Senator, but still a
jack***. For those of you who love droids,
muppets, and fat gelatinous serpent blobs:
C-3PO, R2-D2, Yoda, and Jabba the Hut all
make appearances.

I’m sure that many ofyou are going to be
a part of this historical event tomorrow at
midnight or within a few days. I refuse to
give you the advice that everybody is
tempted to, involving the force being with
you. So instead I will leave you with this
personal insight: if the force made Luke
Skywalker kiss his sister, I don’t want to have
anything to do with it!

 

Photo courtesy of W&L's Performance Newsletter

Brooke deRosa ’01 (Cunengonde), Josh Chamberlain ’01 (Candide), Drew Higgs ’99
(Pangloss), and Alix Warren ’02 (Paquette) play some of the lead roles in Candide, the
major joint Theater-Music Department production to open Friday night.

Latouche, and Stephen Sondheim, among
others. Lively and engaging though it may
be, however, the music is not the only im-
pressive part ofthe play.

“It’s a great play to end my career on,”
Higgs said. “I’ve been in 12 plays at W&L,
and so far this is the most fun I’ve had in any
play. I’ve never seen so many props before,
and scene changes. . . it’s a lot offun. There’s
so much that goes on. It’s a lot of fun to watch.”

Higgs cites the “big, bright costumes” pro-
fessionally designed by Barbara Bell ofNew
York as another of the play’s great attributes.

 

Bell and her students of her costume design
class are constructing over ninety of these
brilliant costumes for the play, costumes rang-
ing from those of 18th century lords and la-
dies to sheep.

According to Higgs, with all the witty
dialogue, incredible music, fancy cos-
tuming, involved lighting, and an enthu-
siastic cast, the play is, “gonna be a real
circus.”

Chamberlain agreed, claiming that the
greatest attribute ofthe play is the humor.

“Some ofthe songs arejust so ridiculous,”
he said. “It’s really funny, I guess because it
is so absurd.”

Chamberlain, who will be in Southern Com-
fort next year but has no previous singing
experience at W&L, also loves the music. He
was careful to add, though, that the difficulty
of the complex music and humorous lyrics
also poses a challenge.

The humor and awesome songs did not
come without great effort. The cast, made up
primarily of members of the University Cho-
rus and others who simply enjoy singing, has
been practicing since before spring term for
their performance. Participants receive 3 ﬁne
arts credits each, due to the incredible time
commitment that this production entails. Since
the beginning of spring term, they have been
practicing about three hours each day, and
the amount of practice time continues to
build as the performances nears.

According to all expectations, however,
Candide looks to be a great hit. Insiders have
hinted that the orchestra sounds great, the
actors/singers are all incredibly talented, the
play is shaping up well and is incredibly
funny, and a good time will be had by all in
attendance. Candide will play in Lenfest
starting at 8 p.m. Friday, Saturday, and Mon-
day nights, and a Sunday matinee perfor-
mance will be given at 2 p.m.

Directed y l

T HEA T RE 65' MUSIC presents
“THE BEST OF

ALL POSSIBLE WORLD ”

Musical Direction by Barry K olman
Vocal Direction by Scott Williamson

Book by Hugh Wheeler adapted from Voltaire

John Latouche & Stephen Sondheim
May 21, 22, 24,1999 - 8 pm
May 23, 1999 - 2 pm

Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center
Tickets and lnfor_Ir_i_a_ti_on 540/463-8000

 

    

Music by Leonard Bernstein

Lyrics by Richard Wilbur,

 

Disclaimer:
The Ring-tum

indentured servants,

sponsible for your lack-

have social lives, either, but

be a contagious condition.) If
endar looks thrilling beyond words,

Upcoming events...

  

Phi, its editorial board and

pastor present, are not re-

of a social life. (We don't

it’: scientifically proven to not
nothing appearing on the 24/7 cal-
throw your own party or Pixie Stix

snorting contest and drop us a line,”(that’s phi@wlu.edu) and we'll put it
in.‘ For more information on events that matter, including, but not limited
to, math colloquium: and Responsibility symposiums, see www.wlu.edu/cgi-
bin/apps/calendar/main/calendar.pl or just go to www.whitehouse.com and
see what our leader's, uh, up to these days.

Tuesday, May 18
10:00AM

Wednesday, May 19
6:00 PM:
fessor of history. Lee Chapel.

Thursday, May 20

10:00 AM: Rising juniors begin fall term Registration.

Symposium. “A Conversation on Character with Biographers
of Robert E. Lee and George Washington,” Emory Thomas, authorof “Robert
E. Lee: A Biography” and Richard Norton Smith, author of “Patriarch: George
Washington and the New American Nation.” Lee Chapel.

7:30 PM:

8:00 PM: Graduation recital. The piano students of Shuko Watanabe.
Johnson Theater, Lenfest Center.

Friday, May 21

8:00 PM: Candide directed by Al Gordon. Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.
Saturday, May 22

8:00 PM: Candide. Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.

11:00 PM: Phi Kap, Bahamas party. The basement.

Sunday, May 23
2:00 PM:

Rising seniors begin Registration for fall term.

Senior Night. Remarks by Ted Delaney ’85, assistant pro-

Candide. Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.

Econo
Lodge

540-463-7371

—Parents’ discount
—Newly renovated
—Free HBO with

—No smoking rooms
—Free Continental

remote

breakfast

 

 

@112 {King-tum iﬁltt

SPORTS

Generals upset 17-7   Lubin: defense with a smile ,

PAGE 4

MAY 17, 1999 ,.

her career in lacrosse.

Seventh-ranked Denison crushes second W&L

By Brendan Harrington
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team saw their
season come to a screeching hault on Saturday aﬁemoon at
Wilson Field, as Denison upset the second-ranked Generals 17-
7 in the quarterﬁnals of the NCAA Division III Tournament.

The Big Red (13-2)jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the ﬁrst
quarter and never looked back. Denison attackman Sean
O’Brien. a high school teammate of W&L sophomore
attackman Matt Dugan, scored four goals and added three
assists to lead Denison into the national semiﬁnals for the
first time in team history.

Denison dominated the game in the midﬁeld, continu-
ally forcing turnovers with solid body checks. The Gener-
als were only successful on 23 of their 33 clear attempts.
Denison defenseman Dave Beaver was the unsung hero
for the Big Red, forcing countless loose balls on defense
and adding a goal.

The Big Red also dominated the face-offs, winning 17 of
the 28 Showdowns at midﬁeld. Denison was assisted by
nine W&L penalties, and scored four times on the extra-
man advantage.

The Generals ( 1 3-2) trailed 8-4 at the half and still had a
chance to get back in the game, but Denison scored the

Washington
and Lee
defenders
sophomore
Pete Iwancio
and junior
Charlie
Antrim
attempt to
stop a
Denison
attackman
from scoring
as sopho-
more goalie
Wes Hays
looks on.
Denison beat
the Generals
17-7.

ﬁrst two goals of the third quarter to take a six goal lead.
The Generals scored back-to-back goals of their own to
make it 10-6, but a late third quarter goal by Denison made
it 1 1-6, and for all intents and purposes, the game was over.

In the first round of last year’s NCAA tournament,
Denison led W&L 8-6 at the half, but the Generals scored
nine third quarter goals on just nine shots and went on to
win 16-13. This year the Big Red had no intentions ofa
third quarter collapse.

The Big Red tallied six more goals in the fourth quarter
before senior midﬁelder Tom Super scored the last goal of
the game to make the ﬁnal score 17-7.

Freshman attackman Ryan Berger scored four goals and
junior midﬁelder Drew Jones tallied three goals and one assist
for the Big Red. Dugan totaled two goals and one assist and
junior attackman Chris Brown scored two goals to lead W&L.

Freshman goalie Peter Royer had an outstanding game
for Denison. Although he only made seven saves, he
made some excellent stops that helped the Big Red keep
the momentum.

The Generals will be back, however, as their nine lead-
ing scorers from this season will return next year. W&L will
miss the services of key seniors such as defensemen Mike
O’Neal and Stephen Puckett, and midﬁelders Zeb Mellett,
John Gilman, Tom Super, and Stephen Birdsall.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

By Frances Groberg

SPORTSEDITOR She also credits Head Coach Ian Hathom as having

been a positive force on her. “All the conﬁdence she had
in me gave me conﬁdence in myself,” Lubin said.

Senior women’s lacrosse co-captain Kimmy Lubin has
recently been named an All South Atlantic Region All Ameri-
can. Lubin adds this to a long line of awards this year, in-
cluding first team All-ODAC and preseason All-American

Yet when asked, it is not the awards that are important
to Lubin.

“Lacrosse has been the most important thing l’ve done
here [at W&L],” Lubin said, “because of all the friend-
ships and conﬁdence in myself that I have gained.”

Lubin began playing lacrosse at a very young age,
throwing in the back yard with her father and sister. She
still considers her father the most inﬂuential person on

citement for the game is evident on the ﬁeld every time she
plays. “Her leadership on the ﬁeld is great ~— I love having
her behind me. She’s always an upbeat and positive force
on the ﬁeld.”

Washington and Lee has seen a number of great play.-
ers come through and play women’s lacrosse, each leav-
ing their own unique mark on the program. Lubin’s legacy
will be that she brought strong play with a great attitude,
and her team was the better for it.

“I wouldn’t have traded it for the world,” she exclaimed.

Burrice to go
toNCAAs

W&L Squash

A record number of students participated in
this year’s squash tournament. Congratulations
to all who participated, as well as the winners.

 

Washington and Lee senior golfer Rick Burrice Cham-
has been chosen to compete on an individual basis pion
in the NCAA Division III Golf Championships. V Kieran

_ The tournament will be B31116)’

held from May 17-20 at the ’00L(left)

Taconic Golf Club in and

Williamstown, Massachu- I'l1111‘l6f-up

setts. Justin

The Taconic Golf Club is Stockdale

owned by Williams College ’00 iI1th°

and is currently rated No.1 m°11’S

 of all collegiate golf division

 

courses in the country.

 
 

Victory on and off the court

By Robert Turner

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee’s Men’s tennis team will lose
ﬁve important seniors from this year’s fourth straight ODAC
championship team. However, none will be missed more
than senior Scott Babka, a key part of the program since
his freshman year who was the team’s leader both on and
off the court.

Babka had both a remarkable year and career as a mem-
ber of the General’s tennis team. He concluded his career
in the best possible way, winning both singles and doubles
titles (teamed with senior Dale Pretila) at the ODAC tour-
nament last month. These victories concluded a memo-
rable career in which Babka won a total of seven ODAC
titles, three in singles and four in doubles.

While his ODAC achievements are his obvious accom-
plishments, Babka also excelled in other matches during
the year. Men’s tennis coach Gary Franke especially re-
members Babka’s effort against Emory, where his perfor-
mance earned him a huge victory over a very tough oppo-
nent that Franke feels “almost helped us pull off a large
upset over higher ranked Emory.”

Babka’s entire family plays tennis, and he grew up
playing from a very early age. He begin taking the sport

seriously just before high school, and subsequently
began to realize that he wanted to play in college.
Though he could have played at a variety of schools,
he chose W&L because he felt it gave him the best
opportunity “to achieve the most both athletically and
academically.”

Mainly a baseline player, the majority of Babka’s suc-
cess was a result of hard work and tireless dedication.
Because of his great attitude, Babka was named a co-cap-
tain this year, and his leadership is perhaps what the team
will miss the most. Coach Franke feels that most ofthe
team’s success is a result of the seniors’ leadership and
positive attitudes, especially from Babka and co-captain

David Lehman. _
Babka’s career stats and achievements speak for them-

selves as to his abilities on the court, but his attitude and
achievements off the court are perhaps what best per-
soniﬁed his overall W&L career, as can be seen by his
excellent GPA. Babka is not sure of his plans after gradu-
ation, but does plan to “take up golf over the summer.”
Babka’s future plans may be somewhat unclear, but one
thing is sure: his presence on the W&L tennis team will
be greatly missed.

Steele Cooper contributed to this article

@ 

FIQAMEWODKS

 

1 N. Main Street, downtown Lexington, Virginia (540) 464-6464

Civil War art and memorabilia
Robert E. Lee 8 Stonewall jackson War Date Documents
W&L, VMI and Lexington art and collectibles
Limited edition art
Custom ﬂaming

Open:
Monday — Friday
10 a.m. — 6p.m.

Saturday
9 a.m. — 4 p.m.

GALLERY

 

Burrice Burrice was one ofjust
five individuals in the na- Champion
tion chosen to compete in L a u I a
the event along with 21 teams. The four-round event Cohen .99
will produce a team and individual champion. (right) and
Burrice averaged 77.0 strokes over 18 rounds this runner_up
season and was the individual ODAC Champion, B e S S O,
shooting a two-day score of 69-74--143. DuRam ,02
As a team, the Generals won their 10th ODAC ,9, in the
Championship, four more than any other team, and  women 3 S
averaged 314.9 strokes per round. division
— Courtesy of Sports Information
W
i / O ' A
. ii!
I
Ciyri ti —baseb US cowqoan
  ‘

SEEKS SALES MANAGER FOR ANY
LOCATION IN THE USA.

—potential3K man
sw/nmerewqo t:

—potential9I< wnntf7puseaca2—
lentbenefitsor —t:imeewqolayw1ent I

469.

 

Sophomore teammate Liz Borges noted that Lubin’s ex— '

4

A

foﬂhiz iiing-tn

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

VOLUME 102, NO. 5

By Polly Doig

EXECUT1 VE EDITOR

In one of the final acts of celebration of the
bicenquinquagenary, Washington and Lee University put
pieces of itself in a capsule and buried them in Stemmons
Plaza for a future generation to find.

It contained everything but the Colonnade and the
kitchen sink.

As part of Senior Night festivities Wednesday, the 250"‘
Committee sponsored the burial of a time capsule which

will be uncovered in 50 years for the 300"‘ anniversary.
“We were really excited to get it all done,” 250'“ Commit-

A tee Time Capsule co-chair Brad Baker said. “It was a great

 

way to cap off the 250*‘ year. It was a pretty big vessel, and
we ended up ﬁlling the whole thing up.”
W&L President John Elrod contributed a letter to the
future president of the university, which read in part:
“Certain as we are that the University will have contin-
ued to evolve over the last ﬁﬂy years academically, tech-
,nologically, physically, and culturally, we are as hopeful in

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

:These are the times
to remember. . .

W&L buries a time capsule commemorating the 250"‘ that
will give future generations a glimpse of who we were

1999 that the values of honor and civility, which have not
changed and have deﬁned the University throughout its
history, are as vibrant and sustaining in your time as they
were in ours and our predecessors. It is these values that
have held the Washington and Lee extended family to-
gether so decisively and distinguished the University
among its peers in higher education.”

The capsule contains snippets of everything from mu-
sic and fashion, to honor and predictions of the future.

“We just wanted to put things that wouldn’t be in Spe-
cial Collections, so you could have some other references

as to our lives,” Baker said. ,
In addition to W&L to the expected present-day W&L

memorabilia, Baker also included photos of something a
little more personal in the time capsule: his daughter
Maggie.

“I put in three pictures of her on the Colonnade all in
her Sunday dress,” Baker said. “When she sees the pic-
tures in 50 years, and if for some reason I’m not here, she
will know that she got to spend time with our family in
Lexington.”

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

GIANT Q-TIPS: Two Washington and Lee students practice their
skills for “American Gladiators” during the Spring Swing held

last Friday.

W

MONDAY, MAY 24, 1999

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

250"‘ Committee co-chairman Nate Tencza (left) and other committee members shovel dirt on

top of a time capsule that won’t see the light of day
Wednesday in front of ‘the’ Williams S'choo'l‘.' ‘ “'“’

for 50 years. The capsule was buried last

“Phantom Menace” hits Lexington

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Amidst outcry from critics and vir-
tually unprecedented hype, “Star Wars
Episode I: The Phantom Menace”
opened across the country Tuesday
at midnight. The movie broke the one-
day record when it opened to $28.5
million, breaking the previous record
set by “Jurassic Park: The Lost World”
with $26.1 million.

“Phantom Menace” opened in
2,970 theaters across the United States
and Canada on about 5,500 screens.

Here in Lexington, the masses be-
gan arriving at the State Theater early
for the door opening at 1 1 p.m. Fresh-
man Ivan Gonzales was one of those
who did so.

“It was really the thrill of seeing the
initial showing that mattered the
most,” Gonzales said. “I was expect-
ing a lot.”

Senior Bill Overbaugh agreed that
the mood of the audience was high.

“There was just this incredible
spirit, I’ve never been a member of an
audience like that for a movie,”

Overbaugh said. “Everybody cheered
when it ﬁnished.”

However, according to Gonzales,
the movie simply did not live up to all
the hype that came before it.

“It really didn’t impact me as much
as I thought it would,” Gonzales said.
“It hardly managed to keep me awake.
There were too many special effects,
and the plot was not convincing,
which was not much different from the
original movies.”

Many agreed that the accompany-
ing hype did the movie more harm than
good.

“There was so much to live up to,”
senior Drew Wendelken said. “I was
expecting so much. It was an incred-
ible movie, but had it’s downfalls. But
I was not disappointed.”

Whether critics approve or not,
“The Phantom Menace” set a new box
ofﬁce record for its first ﬁve days of
release. However, it did not manage to
pass the mark made two years ago by
“Jurassic Park: The Lost World.”

What has been billed as “one of
the most widely anticipated movies in
history,” grossed about $61.8 million

Student investment society takes stock

By Mike Crittenden

STAFF WRITER

More than a year after first set-
ting out to spend the University’s
money, the Williams Investment So-
ciety is happy to ﬁnd itself safely in
the black.

Given an initial balance of $1 mil-
lion dollars by the Board of Trustees
with which to invest in stock, the WIS
has shaken off an initial loss to ﬁnish
this school year with a portfolio val-

“ued at slightly over $1 million dollars.

“We were hit hard last summer by
the falling market and our balance was
down to $800,000,” said WIS co-ex-
ecutive director Taylor Beaupain.
“We have done much better this year
and have shown some positive
growth in our portfolio.”

The Williams Investment Society
was started last February and serves
a dual purpose according to co-direc-
tor Trey Kuppin.

“The purpose of the Society is two-
fold: ﬁrst, to give interested students
practical knowledge about the stock
market, and second, to make a proﬁt,”
said Kuppin. “The Board of Trustees
is equally concerned with both the
educational and the proﬁt aspects of
the Society.”

The WIS is regulated by the Uni-
versity Investment Committee and
has a strongly regimented procedure
for investing in stocks. Headed by
Beaupain and Kuppin, the WIS is di-
vided into Industry groups who re-
search and make proposals to the so-
ciety on prospective investments.
The groups then vote on whether or
not they will purchase a stock with
the ﬁnal decision going to Kuppin
and Beaupain. Kuppin says the pro-
cess helps the group take some of the
risk out of the often perilous stock
market.

“The process is very decentralized
and guarantees nothing is done with-

out a lot of thought,” explained
Kuppin.

In addition, the investment oppor-
tunities of the group are also limited,
with the group sticking to almost ex-
clusively to equities. The group is not
allowed to invest in bonds and can-
not write options. The group is
helped by their faculty advisers, pro-
fessors Anderson and Holliday. Next
year Professor Charles Phillips of the
economics department will advise the
group along with new management
professor, Professor Culpepper.

Currently the WIS has invest-
ments in popular companies such as
Wal-Mart and Dell, as well as firms
such as Chase Manhattan and MCI
World.

Members of the investment soci-
ety are chosen after a rigorous se-
lection and recruitment process.
Though the members of the group
are mostly C-School majors, contrary
to popular belief, the group is open

to students of all majors and is try-
ing hard to diversify its membership.
Both Beaupain and Kuppin said that
it was hard to find students of other
majors who have the interest neces-
sary.

“It isn’t just a C-School major
thing, and we have encouraged stu-
dents from all departments to apply,”
Kuppin said. “We want to integrate
with the campus more and get every-
one involved in this thing. It just hap-
pens that C-School majors usually
have more enthusiasm and interest to
spend time on the stock market.”

Looking toward the summer ahead,
both Kuppin and Beaupain seem op-
timistic about the possibilities for the
1999-2000 school year.

“We are a little over a year old and
I think are now headed in the right
direction,” Kuppin said. “Our goal is
not just a high proﬁt, but also an edu-
cation and experience. I am really look-
ing forward to next year.”

in North American ticket sales over
the weekend. “The Lost World”
pulled in $72.2 million during the Me-
morial Day holiday weekend of 1997.
However the ﬁve-day tally for “Phan-
tom Menace” reached $102.7 million,
outclassing “The Lost World” by al-
most $4 million.

Locally, moviegoers complained
that Jake Lloyd (Anakin Skywalker)
had poor script to work with. In addi-
tion, some were upset that they didn’t
get to keep the “really cool” ticket
stubs as souvenirs.

Most however, were impressed with
the movie, and highly recommended
it.

“I loved it,” Overbaugh said. ‘I
thought the plot was a little slower
than some of the other movies, but the
special effects and the way that you
learned about the background of the
movie more than made up for it. It had
a lot of surprises. I was really im-
pressed by Liam Neeson’s acting.”

Junior Andy Stewart summed it up:

“Don’t believe the critics,” he said.
“It was a good ﬂick.”

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Senior David Lehman surrenders his ticket to “Phantom
Menace” at the Lexington premiere at the State Theater.

May 24, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:

The summer in Lex?

SPORTS:

Cilia ‘ﬁling-tum ilﬁlii

The much-awaited end of the 250“

Patrick Hall and Cap’n Dick Smith.

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

 

 

PAGE 2

OPﬁ?I1oN

 

MAY 24, 1999

 

S TAFF
TIUIURIIAL

Who else is still all riled up from the excitement as this
momentous 250'“ year winds to a close? We don’t know
about you, but between all the banners and balls we barely
had time for the responsibility symposium! And we’ve
never gotten so much learning, leadership and honor in all
our lives! We don’t know how they managed to pack so
much fun into a single academic year, but leave it to those
wacky deans to pull it all off.

Fantastic jobs guys, just fantastic, and I’ll be sure to
stop by for the big 3-0-0 when I’m old and established and
have a nice vapid trophy wife to bring back to campus like
the rest of our alums.

By the way, didn’t you just love the trophy wife collec-
tion on alumni weekend? That was the highlight of my
year. All those thirty-fortyish Southern women with their
sixty-seventyish wealthy husbands. Every trophy wife was
the same: had the same short-cropped hair cut, the same
sickeningly sappy “How are yeeeeeeeew?” Southern pleas-
antries, the same face, the same breasts (all custom made
by the same surgeon in Atlanta, no doubt).

The most frightening part about alumni weekend was
that occasionally you’d see some hot chick walking around
campus so you’d go try to put the ol’ moves on her. Then
you get closer and notice she has a nametag that says
something like “Mrs. C. Royce Pendelsworthy IV, class of
’44” and you’re thinking, “geez, my dad was in diapers
when her husband was graduating from college” and
you’re left with a mixed feeling —— you’re kinda proud of
the old guy for still being able to get it up, but at the same
time you’re disgusted beyond belief.

Anyway . . .

When we return to the Hill in the fall, we’ll find our-
selves ensconced in the less-than-momentous 251st year
of our school’s proud history. But does that mean we should
forget about everything we celebrated this year?

The answer, of course, is yes.

So good-bye, 250'“, and good riddance. But, hey, things
weren’t all bad for the 98-99 regular season. At least not a
single SNU got a scrotum shom this year.

/I

  

, uote of the week:
(i

“If I were a woman, I
would spend my entire
life amassing a fortune so
that I could buy Ricky
Martin.”

— Anonymous senior guy

}}

Gilt: ﬁling-tum Iﬁhi

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan

W&Life Editors Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Senior Editor Tarah Grant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Phun Phi Pheature ideas for next year

We at the Phi are always looking to improve our paper.
Sure, we could sit proudly on our laurels as the third-best
paper on campus, but for us, that’s not enough. And we
won’t stop improving until . . . well . . . until Spring Term
again when apathy always sets in. (By the way, you like
our Spring Term four-page rush—jobs?)

Next year when we return to W&L we’re going to insti-
tute a lot of exciting new features. Here’s a sneak peak at
what you can expect from your
phriends at the Phi:

  

Centerfolds! Check out our
hot upcoming spread, “the girls of
the chemistry department.” Look
out, baby, ‘cuz these isotopes are definitely radioactive
and they’re burning up the page! A centerfold so hot it’s
guaranteed to fog up your safety goggles.

Crying a
darn river...

The problem with humanity is that we’re not really com-
fortable with happiness. So maybe that’s oversimplifying
things a teensy bit, and really, that’s just one of the prob-
lems with humanity. Regardless, it makes us nervous, not to
mention substantially quieter, when we can’t complain. No
matter how well things are going, there’s always something
wrong.

   

This is why  , _ _
the Phi can de- ‘air  L1V1n’ la Vida Loca
vote virtually it ' Polly Doig U)

the entirety of
this page every
week to complaints, and never have to publish a blank sheet
of paper. Whether it’s us whining about administration, the
administration whining about you, you whining about us,
or some alum whining about the loss of the freshmen beanie
policy, there’s simply always something to bitch about.

I noticed this last summer, during what I fondly refer to as
the Internship From Hell, when I wasn’t given enough to do.
I was forced to sit in front of a computer and spend mass
quantities of time playing solitaire. This would be a god-
send to a rational person, particularly one who just com-
pleted an academic year that included four hours of sleep.
But I’ve been termed many things in life, and rational just
isn’t on the list. _ I g

No, instead I began to daydream of the time when school
would start back up and I could continue with the noble pro-
cess of educating myself. I bemoaned the lack of hundreds of
pages of nightly reading, of term papers, of cumulative ﬁ-
nals, of the good old days when the Phi guaranteed an all-
nighter each and every week. Jeez, those sure were the days.

And now, as we wrap up the last week of school, there’s
plenty for everyone to gripe about, mainly all those things
that I was so looking forward to last summer. And as we
finally buried the bicenquinquagenary that took at least that
long to prepare for, not to mention celebrate, it’s apparent
that we grumbled about just as much this year as any other.
Ostrich. SFHB procedures. Online registration. Rich Balzer.
Sorority housing. The ever-popular self-govemance. Un-
armounced delivery girls. Rumors of a parking garage.

The only way we accomplish anything is by taking stands.
The best sight I saw this year was 50 pissed-off students
crammed into an EC meeting, demanding accountability for a
deﬁnition of the only thing that binds us all together— honor.

Whatever Washington and Lee’s faults, each of us has a
chance to make our opinions heard. But when ﬁve percent
of us choose to do so, it leaves the other 95 percent of y’all
stuck listening to me bitch every week, which is hardly rep-
resentative. (I’d heard stories of conservatives on this cam-
pus.) Don’t think I can’t keep it up until my graduation (only
31 academic weeks away for those marking calendars), but
isn’t it time that somebody else got a word in sideways?

Before they call your name to pick up your sheepskin,
and before the only opinion of yours the school cares about
is thaton checkwriting, give ’em hell.

Defending elitism

Last week the Trident published two (one wasn’t enough)
letters urging us to stop making ﬁrn of townies because it

Community Service
Kevin McManemin ’00

 

makes us look like elitists. Actually, I agree with this, but still
don’t see anything wrong with making fun of townies.

Come on. Society claims to value education, and the very
word “value” implies that some things are of greater worth
than others. If we’re going to say that everyone is equal, no

matter what

,. their educa-

Q. .1 . tional or cul-

  tural level,

 then how the

hell are we

going to find people daft enough to blow 80K on a W&L
diploma?

Now let me make a distinction — I’m not talking about all
Lexingtonians being grossly inferior. A lot of them are good,
intelligent people.

I’m talking about the dirty, unkempt, unenlightened, un-
employed rednecks, with scraggly hair and Confederate Flag
tattoos and drawls so thick it sounds like they’re talking
with a tennis ball in their mouths, those with no appreciation
of music beyqnd Lynrd Skynrd, those who just want to live
life lazing around getting drunk.

Hang on a minute, I just described half of this campus.

To modify my original point, we’re no better than townies.
In fact, we’re worse, because we should know better. They
should be the ones making fun of us. Shame on you, shame
on me, shame on us all. Now could you pass that dip cup?

 

Rear View mirror

best coverage of all the local raves. (Summer rave sched-
ule: June -— none. July — none. August —— none.) A new
weekly column by Radiohead’s wacky Thom Yorke prom-
ises to keep us all in stitches. And did someone say polka?
Oh, no? Never mind, then.

Fashion! A fashion page telling you which brand of
khaki cut-offs will be turning the heads on the runways of
Paris and Milan this month. A section
for the gay man in all of us!

Food! Restaurant reviews of all Lex’s

when and where and with what props. For instance. did
you know that last weekend I hooked up with three hot
blondes and. . . oh, who am I kidding. This column brought
to you by women everywhere. “Women — gossip is what
we do.”

Hazing! Helpful Hazing Hints from Pledgemaster Hell-
oise. Learn to give that brutal pledgeship program the “per-
sonal touch.” This year, why not make line-ups extra—spe-
cial with just the right decorations? Did you know that you
can make your own paddle at home for much less than

 Kevin MCManem1-n «O0 hippest bistros, from Berky’s to Burger

Kmg.

Movies! Reviews of the latest box-office hits as soon

what you’d pay at the bookstore?

Zeppo, the Talking Mule Advice Column!

they get them in the State theater. This week: Three Men

and a Little Lady. Next week: Stop! Or my Mom Will Shoot.

Sizzling Gossip! Find out who did what with whom

Everything you’d expect and more from a talking mule.

Silly Names! With people named Polly and Hollister
now running the show, the Phi guarantees the silliest names
on campus this side ofFlash Floyd and Kip Pirkle.

ri>u= 

 
 
  

1999: I fell and couldn’t get up

In one more week, I’ll be halfway
through college. And quite honestly,
I’m scared. I’m not afraid of the real
world or of leaving the Washington
and Lee bubble. I know I will need time
to adjust to the change in situation,
but I’m not scared about the specif-
ics. I’m scared that I get to start over
again.

I have sometimes wondered what
it would be like to
pick up and just-
leave. Not to go
home, or to go with
friends, but to just
leave. Perhaps I’d
move out to some
small town in the southwest, get a job
in a diner or something. Maybe I’d go
to a big city and lose myself in the
bustle. No matter where I ended up,
I’d be leaving and going somewhere
else. I like the idea of starting over in
theory, but theory and reality are gen-
erally two different things.

I have found that there are only so
many times you can start over in life.
Every time I manage to start over —
beginning high school, entering col-
lege, etc. — it seems that I need yet
another chance to start that start—over

   

 Heather McDonald ’O1

again. Why is this? Do I not learn from
my mistakes? Furthermore, why can’t
I ever get it right? I get another chance
to start over next year, but will it do me
any good at all? Will everything be
okay in the end — eventually?

Much of this questioning is be-
cause of the past year. I once read in
some book by some expert on some-
thing that the sophomore year is the
r o u g h e st .
That’s put-
ting itrnildly.
Many of my
classes
could have
been used
as torture chamber devices. Many of
the friends I used to eat with last year
were now far, far away in Red Square,
Davidson Park or Woods Creek.
Everybody’s schedules conflicted.
There were people who I don’t even
know who I saw more than my own
roommates. I thought, like many stu-
dents here, that spring term would
cure all. I was wrong. I keep thinking
things will soon get better, that if I just
do this or that, things will be perfect
soon enough.

And yet, as I sit here and wallow in

Coffee Talk

my pool of pity, I do have a shred of

»
II‘

optimism ﬂoating about. Now, maybe A

you’ve had a great year. Maybe you’ve
had a great life. But I believe that ev-
eryone has one of these years at some-
time in his or her life. Sometimes people
have a few in a row. Most people I know
(sophomores or otherwise) have had
hellish years. Sickness or death in the
family, personal problem s, even simply
a general disillusionment from escap-
ing the teenage years and hitting the
big 2-0 ~— it seems that it’s just been
one of those years. And the only con-
solation is what is the initial fear.

For better or worse, I do get to start
over next year. I’m hoping this past
year was me paying my dues to the
Fates, and next year will be the reward.
Hopefully I will have learned from my
mistakes this past year, and that when
I eventually have to start over yet
again in the real world, I will not fear
my mistakes that might happen. but
will not commit the same mistakes I
already have.

To the seniors this year, I say con-
gratulations a thousand times over.
Good luck in all you do. To the rest of
y’all — have a restful and wonderful
summer. I’ll see you next year.

Dear Editor,

the project.

their years at W&L.

Again, my heartfelt thanks.
Brian Richardson

LETTERS 10 THE EDITOR

Honoree expresses gratitude

I’d like to extend my deepest gratitude for being named
recipient of this year’ s Ring-tum Phi Award for public ser-
vice. As many in the student body realize, the award should
be looked on as recognition of the efforts of hundreds of
people, including dozens of W&L students, in building
Lisa’s House, Project Horizon’s shelter for victims of do-
mestic violence. I especially want to thank David Sugerman,
Josh Beckharn and the other members of the student Habi-
tat for Humanity chapter, who have worked tirelessly on

Dozens of other students have volunteered with Project
Horizon’s hotline and in other capacities as well during

For me, the Ring-tum Phi Award is confirmation that
this student bddy recognizes the involvement of so many
in this project, and the real need for Lisa’s House.

Editors note: Professor Richardson was selected by
the editorial board of The Ring-tum Phi as one of four
recipients of the Phi award Other recipients included

Dear Editor,

Neil Penick, and seniors Amy Frazier and Clzﬂ Woolley.
Walk-a—thon successful

I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank all of those
who participated in the walk-a-thon that was held here a few
weeks ago to raise money for the van used to transport my
brother. The major participants included the women’s la-
crosse, soccer, basketball, and volleyball teams, and thanks
to everyone else as well. I also want to thank each and every
person that made a donation to the cause. My family, my
brother, and I all appreciated everyone’s support very much. ‘‘
Because of such great support, I was able to take over $2100
home with me to donate at the actual walk-a-thon spon-
sored by Aid Association for Lutherans and our church.

I also want to personally thank Assistant Women’s Soc-
cer and Lacrosse Coach, Lorraine Taurassi, for all of her
efforts in organizing the walk-a-thon that we had here. She
was responsible for “taking the ball and running with it” and
without her organization and initiative, it would not have
been as successful as it was.

Thanks again to everyone.

Karin Treese ’99

K

 

. some research dealing with

MAY 24, 1999

PAGE 3

Summer days: livin’ it up in Lex

By Elianna Marziani
F EA Tl/RES EDITOR

Summer. . . lazy days at home, sitting out in
the sun. hanging out at the pool or the beach,
reading. watching movies, traveling, working
a little at a local store. . . sound familiar? While
this might sound like some of your past sum-

, mers. this is not the summer many Washing-

ton and Lee students have chosen for them-
selves this year. A surprising number of stu-
dents are staying in good old Lexington for
the summer, working intem-
ships and doing research with
University faculty.

Rising senior Kirsten
Malm is staying in Lexington
this summer to work in the
economics department with
Professor Michael Anderson.
Malm explained that Ander-
son is working to co—author

the effects of free trade on
lower wage. unskilled work-
 Malm is going to help
Anderson with some of this
research by doing some re-
gression analysis and work-
ing on the statistical end ofit.
Malm took Economics 203
(Quantitative Models) from
Anderson during winter term,
and in February Anderson
‘asked Malm to stay during the
stiu'.m«>r to help him with his
i‘ese.ncli.

Malm is looking forward to
gaining some valuable practical experience.

" its good to have experience withjust do-
ing the regression models,” she said. “It gives you
be"‘.er insight into what people do with econom-
ics.“

She hopes that this experience will help her
with a major in economics and getting ajob.

;\.h,oiit her stay in Lexington, Malm said,
"I'm looking forward to it . . . I came in as a
transfer strident, and I’m graduating early, so
this is my only summer as a W&L student.”

lar from dreading a boring summer, she said,
“I think it’ll be fun. lt’s got to be a very differ-
ent place over the summer.” Malm said she
has heard good things about Lexington in the

 

summer from other students who have stayed
here before, and she is looking forward to try-
ing out the experience for herself. Two of her
good friends are staying in an apartment with
her, so the experience is promising to be a good
one for her.

Rising junior Melanie Baker is also spend-
ing her summer in Lexington, interning with
the University in Tucker Hall. She will be do-
ing some technical work, working with web
pages, capturing and compressing video, scan-
ning, helping to install new computers and soil-

to doing all there is to do in Rockbridge County.
“One of my goals is to ﬁnally get to Goshen,”
she said. “I’ll miss being home with my family
and friends, but I think the experience will deﬁ-
nitely be worth it.”

Rising sophomore Veronica Griffith is yet
another of the many W&L students to be stay-
ing in Lexington. She will be working with Pro-
fessor Michael Pleva of the chemistry depart-
ment, creating labs for Chemistry 106: Disor-
der and Chaos. They are hoping to change
this course from a spring tenn, 3-credit course,

to a 4-credit fall term lab sci-
ence that Grifﬁth said would

Photo courtesy of the Calyx

Melanie Baker ’01 and Veronica Griffith ’02 are two of the many
Washington and Lee students who are staying in Lexington this
summer to work in internships with the University or its faculty.

ware, etc.

“The great thing is, this is notjust ajob,”
she said. “I’ll be learning all sorts of techno-
logical stuff which will help me work more in-
tensively with the faculty. I’ll become fluent in
Java, etc.”

Not only excited about the internship expe-
rience, Baker is also looking forward to two
extra months in Lexington.

“I can’t wait to live in Lexington over the
summer... I’ve heard Lex is a different town
over the summer, and I’d love to see this for
myself. I love Lexington as it is, and I’m look-
ing forward to getting to really live in and ex-
perience it,” she said. She is looking forward

 

“let non-science majors ﬁnd
a more interesting way to
fulfill the [general education]
science requirement.”

Pleva asked Griffith to
stay and help him this sum-
mer at the beginning of win-
ter term, after having her as
his student in Chemistry 1 12
and its lab course during fall
term. Grifﬁth plans to be ei-
ther a neuroscience or chem-
istry pre-med major, so she
is looking forward to gain-
ing some practical experi-
ence.

According to Griffith, “It
will help me learn how to de-
velop and write up labs,” a
skill which she feels is very
important for medical
school.

Will she break our streak
of students who are excited
to be staying in Lexington over the summer?
Not a chance. She knows a lot of people who
are staying here over the summer, plus she will
be involved in the Summer Scholars chorus.

“I’m looking forward to it,” she said. “It’s
going to be a little strange — I’m used to
walking around the comer and seeing people I
know. It’ll be lonely at times, but I’ll find things
to do, people to hang out with.”

Many other students are staying to help in
a variety of tasks, from working in Lee Chapel
to helping with the computer system and ev-
erything in between. So the Lexingtonians
looking forward to a W&L-free summer might
have a surprise coming to them.

mores, 402 juniors, 396

D-hall facts:

_ cards this year

 -4D-hall lost
about 17600

‘L ‘amber-colored

this year ,
9 ‘—-D-hall
sponsored 23
special events
( j_for students

—— by the end of May, D-hall will have
-served 198,700 meals this year

—— D-hall served 312 different entrees to its
students this year
—— Mr. Bitz received about 80 comment

drink glasses ‘

-— the University hosted over 82 lectures
from visiting speakers this year
—— 6 new clubs sought official University

— this year there were 1,696 undergradu-
ates and 370 law students enrolled at W&L

Fun facts:’98-’99 revisited

By Eliarma Marziani
FEA TURES EDITOR
As the 1998-99 school year closes, it is

time to look backward. Here are some little
known, occasionally interesting facts
about the 1998-99 school year at‘W&L:

—— there were 456 freshmen,436 sopho-

seniors, and 367

law students seeking degrees at W&L at
the beginning of fall term; 449 freshmen,
427 sophomores, 401 juniors, 393 seniors,
and 362 law students seeking degrees at

W&L as of the beginning of winter term

professors this year
-— 28 foreign countries
by students this year

 
 
 
    
    

-— W&L’s endowment is $818,248,000
—— W&L faculty included 182 full—time
undergraduate and 34 full-time law

were represented

—- as of fall term,
the top 6 states
for student
representation
were: VA - 192,
TX-136, MD-136,
NY-1 12, 103 PA,
GA-101; though it
sometimes seems
like everyone you
meet is from
Mobile, Alabama,
“only” 62
attended W&L

students were this year; tied for
involved in last place, with 0
approximately students repre-
315 sporting senting them,
events this year were Nevada (though a large number of

students do ﬁnd their way there for Feb.
break each year. . .), Montana, Hawaii,
North Dakota and Wyoming

recognition this year -- 91.6 percent of the student population
General (pardon the pathetic pun!) facts was white/Caucasian this year, as

’ about the school: opposed to 91.7 percent white/Caucasian
— U.S. News ranked W&L 1 1th for last year...so who says the administration isn’t
undergraduate liberal arts colleges and actively seeking out minority students?
universities, and 20th for law school And ﬁnally...

-— W&L celebrated its 250* birthday this
year... just in case you hadn‘t heard!

9

.‘ﬂéo'@w/w.eJw 07¢ as-¢O6'U.

l .74; .%%/—/am  0'4 deeming a dwaobaew
maaaaﬂew /946 Zée /993-2000 acac/emo'c
.%aJe¢ceM‘ea/ ﬂcwclt/‘ed 44054/J coniar/0/’ {A6 gpéé air

60%.

W

J

\

Tuesday, May
8 p.m. A p p I i e d
Johnson Theater, Lenfest Cen-

Wednesday, May 26

12-1 1:45 p.m. Web registration clean-up.
Last chance to register for fall term.

1"

, Upcoming events. . .

 

25
Music Recital.
ter.

8 pm.

Saturday, May 29

9 am.

Monday, May 31

5 pm.
Tuesday, June 1
5 p.m.

’99. duPont Gallery.

Wednesday, June 2
11 am.
Front Lawn.

Thursday, June 3

11 am.

Senior Voice Recital. Mollie
Harmon ’99. Johnson Theater, Lenfest Center.

Undergraduate exams begin.

Degree applications for December 1999 due.
University Registrar, Reid Hall.
Undergraduate exams end.

Gallery Reception. Senior art
thesis by Mary Hampton Yeilding ’99,
Stephanie Frank ’99 and Caroline Keene

Undergraduate Baccalaureate.

Undergraduate Commencement
Front lawn. (Rain plan: Warner Center)

*

*

 

@ 
F RAMEWORKS GALLERY

1 N. Main Street, downtown Lexington, Virginia (540) 464-6464

Monday — Friday
10 a.m. — 6p.m.

9 a.m. — 4 p.m.

Civil War art and memorabilia
Robert E. Lee 8 Stonewall Jackson War Date Documents
W&L, VMI and Lexington art and collectibles
Limited edition art
Custom framing

Open:

Saturday

 

*

*

*

storage

It's that easy!

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
STORAGE OF WINTER
CLOTHING PROGRAM

University Cleaners offers a storage
program for your winter clothing

We will clean and press your winter
clothes and put them in our moth-free

There is no need to transport clothes

home and back in the fall

We will bill you for the cleaning of
your storage during the summer so
that all you have to do is stop by and
pick up your clothes in the fall

Call 463-3622 with any questions

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬂlti ' ~

SPORTS 9

 

    

   

   
   

 
     
 
  

 

    
 

 

PAGE 4 MAY 24, 1999
, '24
“Hall” of Fame Attitude ”
Semor second baseman Pat Hall shows life is a game to be played '4
By Tod Williams more season of.376, Hallhitwell over But head coach Jeff Stickley
STAFF WRITER .300 as a General. Hall has also led the knows the departure of Hall will take
team in doubles this year, and commit- more from the team than just a good .‘.

To Patrick Hall, baseball is more than ted only three errors. second baseman. "
a game. And according to this second Hall knows whom he owes his four “We’ll miss what Pat does on the
baseman, he willtake more away from years of success to. “[Coach Jeff] ﬁeld,” Stickley said, “but his biggest
his four years as a General than just Stickley and [Coach] Jack Baizley have contribution has always been his lead-
friends and a farrner’s tan. nurtured me so much. I’m so grateful to ership. Pat’s the only three-time cap- £-

“Baseball has provided me with so have worked under them for four years.” tain I’ve ever had,” he said. “He prob- ~
many good life lessons,” Hall said. Always the scholar, Hall sees ably doesn’t even think about being a
“You’ll fail far more than you’ll ever Stickley’s coaching as laissez-faire. leader, it’s just how he is.”
succeed out there. The biggest thing “He’s really a player’s coach,” Hall Stickley also knows the benefits P
is learning to deal with the failure.” said. “He provides the instruction and that come from natural leaders like Hall. ’

Hall has always looked at baseball the leadership, but he lets you play “[His leadership] is something the
much like life itself: a battle that must whatever role you want to on the field.” other guys pick up on, which you re-
be fought everyday, but a blessing to Hall appreciates W&L’s staff even ally need on a team.”
be able to ﬁght. “There is no effort more after his high school experience. Junior shortstop David Hanson » at
without shortcomings, but it’sthe per- “I played for a total [jerk] in high realizes the value of Hall’s leadership.
son who can shake off those short- school. He ran a lot of great players “I’ve been playing with him all three
comings that ﬂourishes,” he said. away from the game,” he said. “I real- years I’ve been here, so it’ll be a huge

Though Hall has had to ﬁght hard, ize how serious a job coaches have. difference next year without him. He’s if
he surely knows success. Just se- They’re molding kids’ character and just an intense guy whose presence is '
lected to the All-ODAC fnst team, Hall their lives.” - always felt.”  
set new career records for W&L with Hall certainly has chosen a posi— But Hanson agrees with Stickley
his 142 hits, 93 runs scored and 90 RBI. tion of leadership on the team. A three- regarding the gap Hall’s loss will leave ,  ' n ‘ 1 2
He was also selected to the ODAC All- year captain, he said he’s honored to in the roster. “We ought to be alright 7 _ - r , L
Toumamentteam. have been inaposition of leadership. defensively, but Pat’s leadership is 4‘ I ‘ '

Hall has been a pillar of offensive “I respect and love every person on what we’ll really miss.” .0 ' .. ’ .0
consistency for the Generals, but he the team,” he said. “There’s a strong Regarding his career as a General,  ' 
knows the batter is always handi- bond this year, more than the past.” Hall said the team “made a good run _ ‘ ' ’ ‘ " ,
capped. “The pitchers always beat you Though the baseball program is on my freshman year, but the next two ‘_  ‘ .
somehow,” he laughs. the rise in Lexington, Hall thinks the years we really dropped the ball.” ' J .

But his love of the game is no Generals’ may have some roles to ﬁll “I think that’s why the post-sea- . '
laughing matter. “It’s a kids’ game with the loss of this years seniors. “The son depression hasn’t really kicked in '  _ ,  ‘
played by men. There’s something so loss of E.J. [Murphy] will deﬁnitely be yet,” he said. “I guess I’m just so V . ' 
serious about it,” Hall said. “I just the team’s biggest. He’s basically there proud of the team this year. We went a ‘ __ . ~
love the competition.” to help you win, even if you don’t see long way and really made some giant . _ . p  _

Hall can only name one thing he his name in the box score.” strides for the program.” ' = I ’, ' 3"-
would change about his career as a Gen-    i
eral: “I wouldn’t have played that T ’ . - .  7

icku football Oamem freshman ear.” '
P H511 is spegking of the tackle, that Saturday’  9 99
irijured :is slfioullder, an in1jtf11rythfz:1twilll (Above) Dick Smith, son of Cap’n Dick 4.
P ague 1”‘ °” ° rest ° is i 6‘ A ' Smith, throws out the first i-pitch to Frank ’
g::::§t}i1o 3:52:56 tl::::gﬁ(;'i1;r:1:I:)f]at1::‘: Surface, Rector of the Board of Trustees.
:1ll1S(:)url::l-e}:1{l31a1lrrr'i, since Hall (Left), The two m_en—s‘ha_ke hands as they "

That shoulder injury caused Hall to walk ovff the ﬁeld’ ; V A 7
miss four games early in his sophomore  ’° "5" ' I if I
season. Those have been the only four
times he wasn’t in the Generals’ start-
ing lineup throughout his career. "

Planning to enter the Marine Corps
in June following his graduation, Hall’s .
acceptance has been deferred until -
October so his shoulder can be evaIu- ’ ’ A
ated. Even then, his acceptance is un-
sure. “Right now, my life’s a mess,”
he said.

But Hall has found the proverbial
silver lining to this cloud. “I remind J
myself of that aﬁemoon everyday,” he
said. “But it taught me that in one sec-
ond, I can make a decision that could
change my life forever.” ° '

Hall has said that if he cannot enter  I  y
the Marines, he may try to play ball in
Europe. Other than that, his days as a
player may be over. Yet baseball will
never completely be out of his life. He 35
already has plans to coach this summer.

Though he’s in limbo now, Hall
knows he can never do anything he does
 SEEKS SALES MANAGER PORANY
my options, and I believe that if I’m pas- "
sionate about something, then my dedi-
cation will be endless, but I can’t turn
that drive on if I don’tlove something.”  N  I i 3 A ..

Hall certainly has turned that drive . Photo by Pat Hinely/University Photographer 1’
0“ O“ the ﬁeld Batting 345 this year Ready for anything: Pat Hall shows his prowess in the ﬁeld.
and a career-high average his sopho-

Econo potential 3K mom ‘
LOCI E mmmgl EH”: t 3
9 _
—]O0lBl/1 9K mom ]0l/lS€DCC€- »
540-463-7371 . -

lentlaenefits or —timeewq0loyvv1eV1t .

Championship at _é PS, I

Taconic .. I Golf .: Club __ ' "

,,,,,,,,m,,9,,,,,,,,,. , f Pa rents discount .1‘

Burrice's ‘four-routicl,_.;to” o’ . . __
,,_,,_,,_,,__,,f4w,,,,,,,,,,,,, Newly renovated
. oﬂf the pace set by the individiiall __ '
,.,medalist,.C?h§£l.C9lIi;is-,df  » Free H BO_ Wlth rem ote
~r°<?is*<-C9119‘:   ~ —No smoking rooms — ~
 W and - . t I
temoon and ﬁnis I our er- __
Farm, , Free Contmen a
is breakfast .
J

 

;

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsiTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

A_ VOLUME 102, NO. 6

   

FIRST DAY OF SCHOOL: Freshmen congregate outside Graham-
ltheir busy first week’s schedule.

,Select freshmen receive

gunusual orientation

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Lees dormitory during a break in

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

W&L named to noted
Watson Fellowship list

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Students will have the opportunity to follow dreams, pursue

passions in yearlong adventure

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

For graduation-fearing seniors who have already be-
gun praying for a fairy godmother to help out, she may
have arrived in the form of a $22,000 check to chase a
personal passion around the world.

This year Washington and Lee University was added
to the exclusive list of5l small liberal arts colleges who
participate in the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Pro-
gram. The Watson Fellowship, a year—long post-gradu-
ate fellowship that comes with a $22,000 stipend, ranks
with better known scholarships, such as the Rhodes '
and the Fulbright, but with a distinctive twist, accord-
ing to professor of Spanish Jeffrey Barnett. “You start
here with not what is your major, but rather, what is your
passion,” said Barnett, chairman ofthe Watson Fellow-
ship Committee.

Since the inauguration of the fellowship program in
1968, the Watson Foundation has granted more than 2,000
awards, totaling approximately $23,137,000. Watson
alumni range from the B-52’s lead guitarist to college presi-
dents to NBC executives, and have traveled through
myriad countries-in Search of information on anything
from “The changing role of banquets in Chinese Cul-
ture” to “Space, Place and Identity in the European Cir-
cus.” The Watson is also unique in that it places empha-
sis not so much on the product, but rather the process,
that recipients undergo.

As a result, Barnett has already been swamped with
requests for more information, and it looks as though

competition for W&L’s four nominee spots will be fierce.

“I think the interest will be very strong because it’s
such a great program,” senior Shannon Bell, who plans
on applying, said. “Everyone that I’ve talked to about it
thinks it’s so incredible and exciting.”

The Watson Committee, headed up by Barnett, will
aid in the selection and subsequent mentoring process
for the four students W&L will nominate. Then, during
the months of November through February, representa-
tives of the Watson Foundation will travel around the
country interviewing the four nominees at each partici-
pating college.

On Sept. 27th, an infonnational meeting will be held in
Northen Auditorium at 7 pm.

Barnett claims that in spite of a pool of more than 200
applicants nationally, chances of selection are still good,
as 60 fellowships will be awarded. Further, he stresses
that desire and enthusiasm are more important than grades
in this case.

“If you are a person who doesn’t require structure
and supervision, the Watson is for you,” Barnett said.
“The sky’s the limit.”

Bell is equally impressed with the freedom inherent in
the Watson Fellowship.

“You create your own program,” Bell said. “Basically,
you get paid to pursue your passion.” .

For now, she is planning how to follow her own
passion.

“I’d like to study poverty in other English speaking
countries and see how it compares to the poverty that
I’ve studied in the United States,” Bell said.

 

Shepard Poverty Program provides entering students with
ﬁrst-ever opportunity to experience poverty ﬁrsthand.

I

By Sara Lambert

STAFF WRITER

A group of freshmen recently participated in an orien-
%tation project unusual for the W&L experience — be-
coming acquainted with poverty.

Almost 30 freshman worked with Total Action Against
Poverty (TAP) in Roanoke during the week preceding
freshman orientation, participating in various activities
‘designed to give them a feel for impoverished living con-
ditions.

“We got to meet people and make a real difference,”
said Stacy McLoughlin, sophomore volunteer coordina-

!tor for the week, when asked about the best part of the
week.

Some students went into the projects in Roanoke and
took surveys, speaking with the tenants about whether
they thought their neighborhoods are safe and what could

‘be done to alleviate their condition. Other students worked
with Project Discovery, a workshop designed to encour-
age prospective first generation college students to stay
in school and to help high school students fill out col-

'lege applications and secure financial aid.

The freshman also served as teacher’s aides in the
Head Start Program, participated in evening seminars with
TAP employees, and worked with Blue Ridge Housing
and Development and the Transitional Living Center,

helping men and women recently released from prison
get back on their feet. _

“Our trip left me with a new sense of what poverty
really is in America,” said freshman Gavin Douglas. “I
consider myself one of a fortunate few who experienced
this.”

Throughout the week the students lived in Melrose
Towers, a public housing project, and experienced first
hand what it felt like to live in poverty.

One afternoon they were given a limited budget and
took the bus to experiment with buying food within cer-
tain means.

“Now we want to take the spark of that week and turn
it into something for everyone [at W&L],” McLoughlin
said.

There will be a meeting Thursday at 8:15 pm in Fairfax
Lounge for all those interested in volunteering in Lexing-
ton, Rockbridge County, or the surrounding area. The
new student group, yet to be named, will coordinate stu-
dents and their interests in productive learning experi-
ences that give back to the community. One idea that will
be pursued is the re-facing of Head Start centers in the
area.

All students are encouraged to come to the meeting
whether they are able to give twenty minutes or twenty
hours a week, and bring ideas for service projects and an
open mind.

SINGLE FILE LINE KIDS: Eager seniors prepare to walk during their

ﬁnal Fall Convocation.

 

Gould disputes anti- 

‘ evolution decision

HReknowned author angered by Kansas

” school board’s banning of evolution
- life means,” said Gould.
B}L]9Max Smlth Gould pointed out that most reli-
TAFF WRITER . . ,
* gions in the world don t have a prob-
The evolution debate rolled into lem with science.
Lexington this week. The enormous pluralism of Prot-
Noted scientist and author estantism started the debate, said
Stephen Jay Gould, in town to give Gould. It has become an issue of
it the Fall Convocation address, dis- personal testimony for some who
cussed the “silly” decision by the now find themselves in apolitically
Kansas Board of Education to make powerful position.
the evolution optional in the'science Gould dismissed the Kansas de-
curriculum. cision as a manuever brought about
4 “It’s like teaching English,” said by a five year campaign of
Gould, “but making grammar op- evangelicals to control the board by
tional. [You’re] taking the center- a single vote. Gould believes the
piece out of science.” people of Kansas will reverse the
K Gould wrote an editorial disagree- decision next year and elect a new
ing with the Kansas Board’s deci- board.
sion for Time magazine two weeks ‘ Gould argued that one cannot
ago. He held a question and answer deny the mounds of evidence sup-
session on the evolution debate be- porting evolution. He further criti-
‘» fore his convocation address. cized the dishonesty of the people ,
He argued that the issue of sci- on the Kansas school board who
ence and religion is 3 question Oflim‘ provide such a limited viewpoint for
its, and that the two shouldn’t mix the cun.icu1um_
‘ and °0“ﬂlC‘- “It’s disrespectful to the genuine

“Science can’t provide guidelines
for ethical behavior and what your

progress we’ve made by not calling
evolution ‘fact.”’

_ms.i:-:a::s-sc>\~="5

.1, /..x /

photo by Polly l)oig/ Executive Editor

ONWARD Ho!: Professor Merchant leads the faculty during Fall
Convocation.

NAACP Chair Julian
Bond to speak at W&L

Julian Bond, chairman of the Na-
tional Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People, will speak at
Washington and Lee University on
Wednesday, Sept. 15.

Bond’s talk, “2000: A Race Odys-
sey,” will take place in Lee Chapel at

7:30 p.m. and is open to the public.
Bond’s lecture will incorporate
Anne Moody’s powerful autobiogra-
phy, Coming of Age in Mississippi.
Moody’s 1969 book, which details her

SEE BOND ON PAGE 2

OPINION:
BBQ Southern style

W&LiEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

Ellie ‘iﬁing-tum lﬁlit

-September 13, 1999

TMC gets face-lift, roommates

Football picks up where they left off

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4
PAGE 6

 

PAGE 2

 ON

SEPTEMBER 13, 1999 A

More northern
aggresion

The symptoms of my parents’case of empty nest syn-

.drome didn’t commence with lingering glances of
\ nostaglgia cast towards my barren bedroom. Rather, their
.pre-college, oldest-daughter-leaving anxieties were hall-

marked by nervous nail biting accompanied by the phrase,

* “Kristen, no one does that down there. They’ll kick you
. right out of W&L.

Yes, apparently a nicotine habit is grounds for expul-

fsion in the eyes of my mother. "You’ll be the only one
- down there who smokes. They don’t do that down south.”I

gently reminded her I was going to college, not a monas-
tery.

Admittedly I contested Ulysses S. Grant was the presi-
dent of the Confederacy. Once. But believe me, it was a
mistake I won’t soon make again. But barring the fact that
what I know
about the civil
war you could
ﬁt in a thirnble
(nad have
room left over
for southern
belle etiquette), we northemers (Yankees for the layman)
are not so different for you southemers. To dissolve any
common misconceptions, Ny-er does not equate with “hard
core”. No, I’ve never been mugged. I don’t spend more
time in Grand Central Station than I do in the bathroom.
(But then again, I probably don’t spend as much time any-
where as I do the bathroom.) But I digress. My first clue
that I wasn’t in New York anymore (toto) was the BBQ’ s do
not consist of cheeseburgers and hotdogs. “This is a REAL
BBQ, hon. Pork BBQ.” Interesting. A real BBQ. I suppose
those northern ones must have just been Brand X ones.
Fisher Price ones as opposed to the Armani Exchange
BBQ’s down here. Regardless, I would have given my left
arm for a steak right then.

And I don’t think I’ve ever seen grits in the ﬂesh and
blood before. I think theremight have been a brief mention
of it in “My Cousin Vinny” or something but when I asked
what they were, someone looked at me like I’d just as-
serted Roe versus Wade were canoeing options. This “Are
you for real?”look that humbled my northern heritage and
pride.

I suppose there is a certain slang that the south never
has and (fortunately?) never will adopt:

“Mad heads rolling up”—”A lot of people showed up.”

“I’m D.”—”Sounds good.”

“I’m peacing.”—”I’m leaving.”

But recognizing my blatant position as a minority, I will

 

' most likely succomb to the foreigh ways of this glorious
j southern culture, and maybe then y’all will be more recep-
L tive to our unfamiliar mannerisms.

Want to work for The
Ring-tum Phi?

Come to a staff meeting.
7pm Tuesdays.

Ellie iiting-tum iﬂlii

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Mike Crittenden
Opinions Editor Stephanie Bianco
W&Life Editors Ginger Phillips

__ Elianna Marziani
Sports Editor Frances Groberg

Assistant Sports Editor Steele Cooper
Last Word Editor Kevin McManemin
Copy Editor Heather McDonald

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor

Photo Editor Emily Barnes
Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Dodging mom’s phonecalls
and wasting the day away

As the first few weeks of classes roll along, most of us will
fall into a comfortable routine. The discombobulation of that
sketchy transition period between summer jobs and fall
course loads will fade, and we will soon form our daily and
weekly habits for this new semester.

Some of those habits may include
rising with the sun, heading out for a
brisk morning run amidst the glorious  
Shenandoah skyline, and whipping up » ~ -v «-' "
a few pancakes. Walking over to the
library every morning, you hope to have more e-mail mes-

    

sages than simply those deceiving Postmaster announce— ’

ments.

On Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays you eat lunch
at 12:15 p.m. whereas on Tuesdays and Thursdays, you
eat at 1 1:45 a.m. You study for two hours after your 2 p.m.
politics class before going home to watch 20 minutes of
The Weather Channel. You just love those kooky
weatherpersons. Christina Abernathy is cool, but she’s no
Jim Cantore. There’s that love/hate relationship with Dr.
Steve Lions. If he comes on, you know there’s a hurricane
a brewing. On the other hand, he’s just so darn special that
you can’t wait to see him. Everyday you comment to your
roommate that you look at the weather in your hometown
rather than the weather in Lexington.

The History Channel’s six-month series on Millard
Fillmore comes on at 7 p.m. on Tuesdays, so you have to
meet your friends at 6:30 for the Fillmore pre-party. From
10 to 10:08 p.m. you spend some quality time with ev-
ery ab’s best friend, Jaime Brenkus, ACSM Certiﬁed
Instructor. That’s right. The “:08 min. Abs” video is
safe, effective and it is fun. These exercises will never
hurt you.

You know mom is going to call somewhere between 8

  Off His Rocker
 Stephen Pesce ’01

 

and 10 p.m. on Sunday to ask about your week, but most
importantly to ask if you went tq church. So at 7:45 you head
over to a friend’s place and laugh at quarter to nine when his
mom calls. You recognize those classic get-rid-of-mom lines
anywhere, “I have to get my laundry
out of the drier,” “I have tons of read-
ing to do,” or, my personal favorite,
“You mined my childhood.” That one
never fails. .

There are hundreds of other little
things that you do on a daily or weekly basis. Some of
them are important. Some of them are mere time-wasters. In
any case, you get used to them. By October first, you have
a routine that will not change until Winter Break. Surely we
do not all do the same things. We all manage our time in
different ways.

One thing, however, that everyone should ﬁt in to that
routine is community service. So many opportunities on
campus and in the community get overlooked by all of us.
We ﬁnish our course assignments and we call it a day. Big
Brothers and Big Sisters, Habitat for Humanity, tutoring at
the local schools, among many others are great opportuni-
ties. We should take advantage of them.

I personally have trouble ﬁnding the time or the desire
for things like that on a random basis. But, if I schedule it in
my routine from the beginning, there’s a better chance of
my keeping up with it. Getting used to a new semester is
difﬁcult, but altering your routine later presents greater
problems. Now, before getting into a rut, is the time to allot
time for things like Habitat or being a Big Brother.

Now that I sound frighteningly like the nagging mother
whose calls we dread (not to be confused with the loving,
caring mother whose calls we cherish), I will stop rambling.
Have a good day and call your mother.

Here We go again, just
one more Saturday night

Ahhhh yes, another year is here welcoming an-
other freshman class, and a return to the joys of
academia for upperclassmen. Like every other year
in school history, the Admissions Office has her-
alded this class as the biggest, the brightest, and
most involved in school history. From what I’ve
seen so far, it is true, they are
definitely the biggest. That’s
not to say they aren’t the
smartest and most active also,
but hearing that every new
student is better than you in
every way can really start to grate on even the most
benevolent upperclassman’s ego.

In fact, I honestly do enjoy the coming of a new
crop of freshmen every year, because it reminds me of
the excitement of my own ﬁrst few weeks in Lex Vegas.
As a dorm counselor, this year I admit I have felt a little
twinge ofjealousy while watching the guys on my hall
yell to each other about which parties are going on,
which girls they met the night before, and the tremen-
dous amount of homework they have in their introduc-
tory classes. Shouts of “grain party at Pole House”,
“kegs at Cabin 22”, and “late night at Chi Psi” ring
through the halls.

Though it’s hard to reminisce being 20 years old
and only a junior, the unadulterated excitement of the
fall term of freshman year is one of the things that
make this school special; something I am reminded of
in the excitement that bums in their slightly hazed eyes.
They bring with them an orgasmic energy that drives

  

 

 Balderdash
 Mike Crittenden ’o1

 

them in hordes, walking from party to party, from
Davidson to Red Square and back again.

I remember as a freshman sitting on the back porch
ofthe Outing Club House with a friend, sipping a 40 of
Corona and watching the hordes of freshmen invading
fraternity basements. Finished looting them of all their
free alcohol, they would move on,
seeking out prey like the Norse Vi-
kings of old. It is that excitement,
that raw energy, that I loved about
freshman year, because you were al-
ways meeting new people, and al-
ways living for the unknown, virgin experience.

I guess this leads me to some advice for the fresh-

_ men, sage though it is not. Enjoy this time and as my

friend Slim always says, live in the now. Somewhere
between the kegs of Natural Light and the trash cans
full of grain punch lies something great and special
about this school.

Though impossible to grasp fully, it’s importance is
in the students and our love of who and what we are.
Its this that blesses us with the greatest alumni sup-
port in the country. At no other school in the country
does one see so much love for the institution and the
people involved.

This is the reason I always get chills driving into
Lexington and seeing the Colonnade rising up behind
Lee Chapel with all its history and honor. So love it
and never leave it, the family that is this University
that is. And to all you freshmen, welcome to the roost
you now call your home.

The freshman
15 and more. . .

I was told the impressions of a wide-eyed incoming J,
freshman would be amusing to entrenched upperclassmen
presumably devoid of excitement at returning to W&L.
Whatever. At the risk of sounding trite or, heaven forfend,
dull, I shall try to

 

encapsulate ori- ————-—————————— 4*
entation week in Haven Forfend '
these few para- ,

graphs in hopes Sara Lamben 03

that my fellow },

freshmen may

save this issue and look back with fondness years later
and that upperclassmen may read and (smirk if you like)
remember.

Saturday evening, after saying a tearful goodbye to 1
parents (alright, just leave already), I began the rounds of
optimistic yet not particularly memorable introductions.

“Hi, I’m Sara from New Jersey”

“Oh, J oisey...what part?” (what exit?)

“Bemardsville-Bridgewater-Somerville-Morristown-
New York City” (Peapack, 07977)

“That’s nice.” (shaking head, no clue) “You’re a fresh-
man, right.” (here, have a beer)

20 minutes later same guy...“Hi Jeremy-Peter-Rob-Mike- ‘
Chris” “It’s Kevin, hi, have we met? (quite possibly) I’m
from Atlanta” “Oh, hi Kevin, Pm San, from Jersey.” If I had
to judge the size of W&L based on those party encounters
I would estimate it in the tens of thousands. Nonetheless, it
the beer ﬂows freely, the people are nice, the stress level is
minimal and the only concern is the Lexington police catch-
ing you watering the bushes. .

As the week progressed we found our way to the din- _q
ing hall for at least one meal and then to Walmart for the
requisite odd-hour junk food. We struggled with the com-
puter network and online registration. The system told me,
more than once, it couldn’t find my ethemet card and I
decided not to argue. Good thing, too, as I heard it got mad ‘:
and deleted some people from the register. They now at-
tend Davidson.

Like all freshmen I attended the myriad of mandatory
dress-up meetings. For girls at least these serve a greater 1‘
orientation purpose than “small group” or “big brother.”
Unlike the men who wear standard khakis, blue blazer, white
shirt, red tie, women must wear something different to each
of these parades of fashion. Thereby reslutirig in exhaus-
tive discussions of taste and style: I

“Hi, Sara, Joisey.”

“Do you think this makes me look fat?”

“Of course not! That’s so pretty!”

Can we all say in one resounding chorus “freshman
ﬁfteen”! Cheers!

uote of the week: ’ ' A

((

“I feel like I just spent an .v.
hour in a public
restroom.”

— Senior Collin Gleason on his last visit to
the new Wafﬂe House

Major decisions

it

I am not a practical man. Those of you who know me are it I

probably turning to the person beside you and saying dis-
gustedly, “impractical?...offensively absent-minded I’d say.”
Ok, fine, absent-minded, impractical...yes, I am. I have known
this for some time you realize. Ever since I found myself with

a concussion from falling oﬁ" of the ﬁve pairs of my mothers ‘
high-heels I stacked one on top of the other to peek at my
Christmas presents hidden on the top shelf of my parents
closet, ever since that day I’ve been painfully aware of my
own deﬁciency of common sense.

And so it’s
been for the last
ninteen years of
my life, unaware
of saying rude,
rude things in
public, catching
myself halfway to my room with an armful of books I just
walked out of the library with (don’t worry they were all re-
turned and properly checked out). You know, things like that. I

But I’ve tried, for a good chunk of my lifeI’ve tried not to
do things like forget to show up to a guitar lesson I was
teaching. And over the summer I tried my hardest to be prac-
tical when I thought about the major I ’ll be declaring this year t
that will affect the rest of my time on God’s green earth.

I leafed through the departmental pages of our course
offering catalogue this past August and I realized that I
would either be choosing a practical major or its oppositef
that which has caused all mayhem and wackiness in today’s '*
world - an impractical major.

But as I skimmed over the course decriptions I couldn’t
help but find myself pouring over everything I was trying to
avoid. I couldn’t go on, and I found myself getting pissed at
myself for even attempting. It was decided: I was going to
pick the major God and his entire host of singing angels
wanted me to pick. Hell I’ll even be a double major! So this
year when we, as sophomores, ﬁll out our forms and declare
our majors, I’ll think of all of you who will be declaring a ;
liberal art, or whatever we’d agreed to call them. And I will
throw the biggest party of the new millenium when that
committee accepts my proposal to create a calligraphv major.

 

Public Service
Tom Grove ‘O2 ,1

 

 

 

 

Ellie Iaing-tum lﬂlii

NEWS

)-

SEPTEMEER 13, 1999 PAGE 3
G IN t 3°“
 O  from pagel
W&L institutes new childhood in rural Mississippi and her Bond, a faculty member in the his- Bond has also authored a

K recycling program

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has introduced a new
recycling program this week
that should reduce the
amount of garbage the Uni-
versity currently Ships to the
landﬁll.

Robert Akins, professor of

‘l physics and engineering at W&L and chair of the
University’s environmental planning and management
committee, explained that recycling will be easier than
ever. Rather than presorting recyclables, faculty, staff
and students will be able to deposit clean cardboard
and paper ofall types, plastic and aluminum into the
same container. These blue containers will be identi-
ﬁed by a “Let’s All Pitch In” sticker and will be placed
in each building on campus and on every dormitory
K hall.

Physical plant will then empty these containers
and send the paper, plastic and aluminum to Cycle
Systems, a company that sorts the items for recy-

A cling. Cycle Systems will reject any containers that
have glass or garbage. “We’re asking everyone to
please pay attention to what they put into the recy-

cling container,” emphasized Akins, “because a con-

taminated container not only means recyclable mate-
4 rial will end up in the landﬁll, but that W&L will have
to spend extra money transporting that container to
the landfill and on dumping fees.”

For now, separate containers will be established
to collect glass between the Co-Op and the Graham-
Lees dormitory, and bulk cardboard will continue to
be collected and baled at the bookstore and dining
hall. “Our eventual goal,” Said Akins, “is to reduce
glass on campus because it is too heavy and danger-
ous to recycle.”

The environmental planning and management com-
mittee will be asking for volunteer advocates to moni-
tor the recycling program for each building. More

I

I‘

R information about W&L’s recycling program can be
found on the W&L homepage under the Campus Ser-
vices link or by calling W&L’s physical plant at 463-
8490.

A

Smith publishes new poetry volume

Rod Smith,_ editor” of Washington and Lee
University's literary quarterly Shenandoah, has added
another volume of poems to his long list of publica-
tions.

This summer Split the Lark: Selected Poems, was pub-
lished by Salmon Publishing Ltd. in Ireland. The book
will be published by Dufors Publishing this fall for a

"November release date in the U.S.

An American publishing poetry in Ireland, said Smith
is like "bringing coals to Newcastle," but he tailored
his selection ofpoems to suit an Irish audience. Smith,
who has spent extensive time living and working in Ire-

5 land says the Irish are fascinated in particular with Na-
tive American life and growing up in the rural South.
He also included poems on birds and on Ireland's mod-
em social issues.
Split the Lark won the Salmon Transatlantic Poetry
Prize, and while Smith was in Ireland this summer, he
gave several readings from the collection. This marks
Smith's seventh volume of poetry to be published. His
collections The Cardinal Heart and Trespasser were
‘> nominees for the Pulitzer Prize in Poetry. He is working
on his next anthology to be titled Shine in Darkness,
I00 Poems of the Moon.

Film Society offers “Elizabeth” for

season opener
Washington and Lee University’s Film Society will
show Elizabeth (England, 1998), directed by Shekhar
» Kapur on September 17 and 18. As always, showings
‘ will start at 7:30 p.m. in the Troubadour Theater on
Henry Street. There will be no charge for admission,
although contributions are very welcome.
History is written by winners, and rewritten by
each succeeding age in its own image. Elizabeth-
H , Shekhar Kapur’s vibrant, red-blooded biofilm about
the shaky young outsider who steered her way
through a succession of political and amatory
mineﬁelds to reinvent herself as the invincible Virgin
‘ Queen, Holy Mother of England-is dazzling enter-
0 tainment that never attempts to hide its frankly con-
temporary slant.

‘03 hits in Lex

By Sara Lambert

STAFF WRITER

A

,»

ﬁv

468 ‘freshmen began their careers at W&L last week.
According to admissions statistics, they represent 36 states,

D.C., and 19 foreign countries, most prominently Virginia,
‘ Maryland, Georgia, and New York.

/4. Among them are scholars, athletes, volunteers, and model

citizens. Nearly 90% of the Class of 2003 took more than
three years each of foreign language study, math and labo-
ratory science. 88% took Advanced Placement courses while
in high school.

The incoming clas also contributes experience in a vast
range of extracurricular athletics and activities. Over half
were members of the National Honor Society, and a quarter
were each varsity captains and presidents of school clubs
and organizations. Judging from their accomplishments the
past four years, the next four will be exciting for both W&L
and the Class of 2003!

 

Many of our ideas about Queen Elizabeth I have
been put there by movies starring the likes of Bette
Davis and Glenda Jackson, but none of her prede-
cessors has a thing on the new Elizabeth, Cate
Blanchett (known until now for Oscar and Lucinda).

The wonderful case also includes Richard
Attenborough, Geoffrey Rush,Joseph Fiennes, and
John Gielgud.

Mark Rush earns grant from APSA

Mark Rush, associate professor of politics at Washing-
ton and Lee University, received a grant from the American
Political Science Association to conduct a study titled “‘Re-
search and Database Development on the Impact of Redis-

tricting in American and Canadian Electoral Svctems ”
Rush was one of twelve applicants to be selected for the

Small Grant Research program, which was established in
1984 to make resources available to scholars afﬁliated with
institutions without large research budgets. A total of 13
grants were awarded by the APSA from 53 proposals. Rush’s
grant provides up to $1,800 of nonrenewable support to
cover nearly all research expenses.

Rush joined the W&L faculty in 1990 and was promoted
to associate professor politics in 1996. He earned his B.A.
at Harvard and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins.

W&L ranked 14th in US. News &

Word Report survey

Washington and Lee University is ranked 14th in this
year’s U.S. News & World Report rankings of the nation’s
top liberal arts colleges. This marks the 13th consecutive
year that W&L has been ranked among the nation’s top
liberal arts colleges by the magazine.

Among the categories used in the evaluation are aca-
demic reputation, graduation rate, student retention, fac-
ulty resources, student selectivity. ﬁnancial resources and
alumni giving. W&L scored particularly high in the areas
of faculty resources (2nd), alumni giving (7th) and student
selectivity (9th). ‘

o y oig/Executive Editor
SIGN ME UP!?!?: Freshman talk to student
organizations at the Activities Fair
Wednesday.

Wfaynoﬁa jfouse

C. I 6’ 66’
7 .7)9ea/a12o/ f/31*ea£/as!‘
yﬁomas  csafa/s, gnnfeeper

jzfaynodra .7{ouse 11: an .511:/or1'c'.6ome/oca/eJ1'n
/fe [earl 0/6)ex/ny/on, v1'1y1'n1'a. won; a fear
anofgreaf/[as/, yﬂyno/fa Jﬁause o/yrs a vane/y
o/yues/suzies anJnooms, a// (11175 prioa/e 5a/£3-.
gﬂefouse 1s ma/Amy J11)‘/ance /mm a oar-1'e{y 0/
sfops, rues/auran/s, museums, anJseuera/pain/s
ofin/eres/, as azeff as ?B)as£}'ny/on ano/éiee
Qln/newly am/Me T)i2y1m'a97&£7a.7 Qmhiu/e.

.501  Wain Cslreel
gexthy/on,  244.50
(3—ma1'[' mayno/Ea @roc[5r1}{ye. nel
zUe5.r:'/e: ma_7na/iafouseinn. cam
577£one.- (540) 463-2567
%// Z-ee; I-377-3.5.5-4664
Zn: (:40) 463-4356’

Wfﬂa/or creJi/ carfr are accep/er/.

work as a civil rights activist, was the
selection for W&L’s freshman reading
program this summer. The freshman
reading program is now in its fourth
year and is an infomial way to assimi-
late new students into the W&L com-
munity. All of the entering freshmen
join faculty members and upperclass
student leaders in reading a selected
book and then they break down into
smaller discussion groups. Nearly 600
people take part in the program each
summer.

tory department at the University of
Virginia, has been an active participant
in the movements for civil rights, eco-
nomic justice and peace for more than
three decades. As a student at
Morehouse College in the late l950’s
and early 1960’s, he was founder of
the Atlanta student sit-in and
anti-segregation organization and of
the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee. He went on to serve more
than 20 years in the Georgia General
Assembly.

nationally-distributed newspaper col-
umn and has narrated several documen-
taries, including the Academy-Award
winning A Time for Justice and the
prize-winning and critically acclaimed
series Eyes on the Prize.

Bond has served four terms on the
national board for the NAACP and
was elected to his current position of
chairman of the board in February 1998.
He has been honored with honorary
degrees from 15 universities and col-
leges.

Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

TOO MUCH WORK ALREADY: Sophomore Baxter Lee marches down the Colonnade as classes

began Thursday. ,

‘My body is Y2K compatible...

How about_yours?”

STUDENT SPECIAL

$199 PAID IN FULL
- OR _
$29 PER MONTH

FOR A FULL SCHOOL YEAR!

. AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

- 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK. BODY
MASTERS EQUIPMENT . HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIPMENT . 22
PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT. PRO SHOP . TANNING
SPECIALS . LOCKERS . SHOWERS

Special ends September 31, call now 464-9060 for club tour!

@MEGA

FITNESS

CENTER

 

 

‘PAGE 4

Women’s Soccer
bounces back

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team emerges
from its opening weekend with a record of 1-1. The real
story from the weekend, however, has nothing to do with
the win and loss column. The defeat that the Generals suf-
fered cannot be measured numerically.

Senior captain Deirdre Coyle suffered a broken leg ﬁve
minutes into Saturday’s contest against Emory.

“The loss of [Coyle] will be as much, if not more, of a
loss of leadership as a physical loss,” junior captain Shana
Levine said.

Coyle’s absence was felt on the ﬁeld as the Generals
struggled against the Eagles. The game remained scoreless
through the 75th minute behind 17 saves by goalies senior
Stephanie McKnight and junior Lauren Harris.

I Despite these defensive efforts, Emory was able to
oiltshoot W&L 23 to four. The Generals broke down in the
second half, allowing three Emory goals in a span of only
two minutes.

Head coach Jan Hathom cited a number of factors that
contributed to Saturday’s loss.

“I think we played scared, and respected Emory almost
too much. Fitness also played a great factor. We just weren’t
able to keep up during those two minutes.”

Hathom also noted that the psychological effects of
losing Coyle in such a dramatic fashion could have hin-
dered the tearn’s performance.

The weekend would end on a high note, however. In-
spired perhaps by a sheet inscribed with the words, “Do it
for Deirdre,” the team found their intensity and their focus
against Shenandoah on Sunday aﬂemoon.

ODAC-favorite volleyball looks ready to smash competition

By Steele Cooper

SPOR Ts EDITOR

Coming off last year’s ODAC championship season,
the Washington and Lee women’s volleyball team looks
ready to bring home their ﬁlth title in six years. In the latest
ODAC Coach’s poll the General’s are picked to ﬁnish first
in the conference.

Backing up this selection are four returning starters and A
ten letter winners. Teri Dadio Campbell, 1998 ODAC Coach
of the Year, returns to lead the squad. Look for sophomore
Lindsey Ruckert, senior Nancy Reinhart, and sophomore
Lee Charbonet to maintain big hitting and blocking at the
net. Senior Tori Hayes returns to fortify defense on the
back line and senior Pam Saulsbury once again runs the
offense from the setter’s position.

The Generals opened their season on Friday at the
two day W&L Invitational. W&L was faced with defend-
ing last year’s Invitational title against Catholic Univer-
sity, Mary Baldwin, North Carolina Wesleyan, St. Mary’s
(MD), and Shenandoah.

“We really picked up from where we left off well,” said
Saulsbury. “The season got off to a solid start.”

Saturday, Catholic University went home with the title
this year defeating W&L in a tough-fought ﬁve game ﬁnal
(15-6, ll-15,15-9,11-15,15-ll).

Aﬁer defeating Catholic in four games earlier in the tour-
nament, the Generals found themselves down early in the
match. Catholic jumped out to a 14-0 lead in the first game
but W&L was able to stall the inevitable by going on a six
point run before dropping the game.

That comeback drive proved successful for the Gen-

  2:09 Drill

Men’s, Women’sSwimming honored as
Academic All-Americans _

The Washington and Lee Women's Swimming team
was recently honored as an Acaderriic All-American
Team by the College Swimming Coaches Association
of America (CSCAA). Two W&L swimmers also reaped
individual accolades from the CSCAA. Margaret Hoehl
(’99) was named as an individual Women's Division III
Academic All-American. On the men's side, senior
James Browne achieved Honorable Mention All-Ameri-
can status.

The women's team posted the third highest GPA of
any Division III school in the nation (3.497) and re-
ceived a superior rating ﬁom the CSCAA, the highest
honor given.

Browne posted a perfect 4.0 GPA to attain his
honor. The pre-med ihajor captained the 1999 men's
squad.

Jacobs—Moore to enter Hall of Fame
Washington and Lee women's swimming coach
Kiki Jacobs Moore is slated to be inducted into the
Dickinson College Athletic Hall of Fame on Sept 25.
A 1989 graduate, Jacobs Moore was a four-year
letterwinner and three-time team most valuable swim-
mer for the Red Devils. She set 24 school records and
six conference records in swimming, earning All-
American honors 1 1 times during her career. As a se-
nior, Jacobs Moore received the ‘McAndrews Award,
given to the Dickinson Female Athlete of the Year.
Jacobs Moore came to W&L in 1991. In her eight
years as the Generals‘ mentor, Jacobs Moore has led
W&L to ﬁve consecutive ODAC/Atlantic States
Championships and has been named the ODAC/At-
lantic States Coach of the Year six years in a row.

Elli: Ring-tum iﬁlii

PORTS

Out of my way:

W&L pummeled their opponents 7-0, with goals from
junior Lindsay Williams, sophomore Kate Bidwell, junior
Margaret-Hunter Turner, freshman Ruth Hill Yeilding, and
junior Courtney Nolan. Senior Ansley Miller and Turner
each had two assists.

“We played much better on Sunday because we played

erals in the second game. Down early once again, W&L
came back from an eleven point deﬁcit to win the sec-
ond 15-1 1.

“We just dug ourselves in really big holes and got a
little overwhelmed,” said Saulsbury.

The ﬁnal three games of the ﬁnal match were side-out

ﬁlled offensive battles. Catholic came out on top in the

ﬁfth by a score of 15-1 1 in rally scoring. ~

“Tliey‘came out strong and ready to beatus. We didn’t
take them for granted at all but we were just very well
matched,” said Charbonet.

“In this match [against Catholic] we let them dictate
play and have the momentum,” said Ruckert.

The offensive attack in the finals was lead by
Ruckert, 1998 Rookie of the Year, with nineteen kills and
by Charbonet with thirteen. They each tallied ﬁﬁeen and
fourteen digs respectively.

To get to the ﬁnals W&L easily defeated North Caro-
lina Wesleyan 15-4, 15-4, 15-4 in the semis. This win ex-
tended the Generals’ winning streak to nineteen. Tori Hays
held off Wesleyan’s offence with thirteen digs.

Friday, in the second round of the tournament W&L
faced eventual champion Catholic and pulled out the 15-
10,7-15, 15-7, 15-10 win. This win was W&L’s ﬁrsttestby
a solid opponent of the season.

“The match on Friday [against Catholic] was easier than
the Saturday match. They improved their play and did all
of the little things right,” said Saulsbury.

W&L received their ﬁrst win of the season in the open-
ing round of the tournament on Friday against Mary
Baldwin College (15-1, 15-3, 15-5) thus extending their win-
ning streak from last season to seventeen.

Men’s soccer
loses opener

By Robert Turner

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team opened their
season Saturday with a disappointing loss to Catholic Uni-
versity in Washington, D.C. The Cardinals, who lost to the
Generals last year early in the season, appeared much im-
proved this season and won the rather lackluster match 2-1.

Catholic scored their ﬁrst goal midway throught the first
half on a penalty kick aﬁer an infraction by the Generals in
the box. The Cardinals added their second goal early in the
second half after a cross was deﬂected off of a W&L player.

The Generals ﬁnally got on the scoreboard with ten
minutes to play on a header from sophomore forward An-
drew Grimes, who was assisted by senior Jason Miller.

The Cardinals played a conservative defensive style
for the rest of the game, denying the Generals any more
opportunities to tie the game.

The Generals were plagued by problems throughout
the game, mostly on the defensive end.

“We struggled defensively all over the ﬁeld, but still
had plenty of opportunities to score,” senior captain Scott
LeToumeau said. “We just couldn’t put another one away.”

Sophomore John Stroebel felt that the discrepancy in
the number of games each team had played on the season
was another factor in the loss. While this was W&L’s ﬁrst
contest, Catholic had already played three games before
facing the Generals.

“We played kind of tentative, and they were deﬁnitely
more aggressive than we were,” Stroebel said.

The Generals take the ﬁeld twice this week, playing
Southern Virginia at home on Monday and traveling to
Randolph Macon on Friday.

Photo by Emily Bamcs/Photo Editor

Junior Amanda McDermott blasts past a defender on Saturday against Emory.

loose, and better as a team,” junior captain Shana Levine
said. “A lot of people have been injured, so we’re still
dragging a bit, but we’re pulling it together.”

The Generals begin their ODAC tournament play this
week with games on Thursday at Hollins University and
home on Saturday against Virginia Wesleyan.

SEPTEMBER 13, 1999 “

Generals fall~
to Hopkins .

W&L loses 31-14 despite

more total yardage, 412-373. r

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

It was the opening game that could’ve been. The Wash-
ington and Lee football team played a solid four quarters but
failed to execute the key plays necessary to score the win.

A few costly mistakes and an offensive line that was thrown
out of balance due to the injury of starting senior center Matt
Seals were too much for the Generals on Saturday.

W&L’s ﬁrst scoring drive ended in a blocked punt that
was run back for a Blue Jay touchdown. At the end of the
first quarter junior Marc Watson ran 24 yards to the end
zone to bring the Generals within three. Watson had 108
rushing yards on 24 carries.

As the ﬁrst halfcame to a close sophomore kicker Brad
Wiginton missed a ﬁeld goal attempt that would have cut
into the Blue Jay’s 17-7 lead.

Senior quarterback Christian Batcheller passed for 225
yards and completed 23 of 34 pass attempts. His two inter-
ceptions inside the Johns Hopkins 15 yard line proved to
be too much to overcome.

“We’re a better team but we didn’t prove that to anyone

[Saturday],” said sophomore Jeff Powell. “We outplayed it

them for most of the game but couldn’t capatalize.”
The Generals host Guilford next Saturday in their first
ODAC game of the season.

 

    

/Photo; Ed

 

Photo by Emily is"

The volleyball team showed off its best form in the W&L invitational tournament this weekend.

Reinhart, the 1997 ODAC player of the year, massed 10
kills and 10 digs. Ruckert also totaled 10 kills and dug up
six hits on the defensive.

The Generals begin to defend their ODAC title on
Wednesday when they face Lynchburg in their first ODAC

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

In a school that has been aroundfor over 250 years,
senior Christian Batcheller has shown that there can
still be ﬁrsts here at Washington and Lee.

This summer, Batcheller was selected in the 46th
round of the Major League Baseball draft to the Pitts-
burgh Pirates. By signing the contract, Batcheller be-
came the ﬁrst W&L player to be selected since the ama-
teur draft began in 1966.

“Obviously it has always been a childhood dream of
mine so I jumped at the opportunity,” said Batcheller.
“It feels great to have achieved this ”

Batcheller played for the Pirates’ Single A short sea-
son program this summer, which started on June 1 1. “I
did fairly well, considering the adjustments I had to make
from one level of competition to another,” said Batcheller.

match of the year. Lynchburg looks to be the toughest
opponent for W&L in the ODAC and the test to see how
they will hold up in the ODAC.

“They’re a strong team,” said Saulsbury. “That’s gonna
be the match.”

Batcheller drafted to Pirates

The news is not all good for the Generals, however. By ,_

signing the contract with the Pirates, Batcheller becomes
ineligible to play for the Generals’ team this spring.

“I would obviously love to play with the team this year
and ﬁnish out my career, but when one is presented with
an opportunity like this, you have to take it.”

The team will certainly miss him. Batcheller batted .275
during the 1999 season with ﬁve home runs and 18 RBI. He
won the Old Dominion Athletic Conference triple crown as
a freshman when he batted .490 with nine home runs and
45 RBI, earning First Team All-ODAC, All-South, and All-
State honors.

He also earned First Team All-ODAC and Honorable
Mention All-South accolades as a sophomore when he hit
.386 with nine home runs and 27 RBI.

Batcheller has not relinquished all athletic responsi-
bility at W&L, however. He continues to anchor the
Generals’ football team as starting quarterback for his
senior year.

WANT TO S€€ YOUR NAM€ IN PRINT?
THE. RING-TUM PI-II WANTS Your 

Business Manager (paid position)’
Advertising Director (paid position)
A Sports Writers —

call x4060 and leave a message

I’

 

Savirzgs 7325’. .:i

nline C

Save up to 40% on new textbooks.
Get them in 1-3 business days. Guaranteed.*

 

Humor Page

PAGE 6'

LAST WORD  

 

SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

MTV Video Music Awards
Go to Best and Brightest

New York -— It was another big night for corporate
America as the music industry recognized its ﬁnest and most
talented at MTV’s heavily-hyped Video Music Awards. The
big winner of the night was Ricky Martin’s PR agent Tom
Hammond, who went away with awards for best dance video
and best pop video.

“This has been a great ﬁscal year for music,” Hammond
said in his tearful acceptance speech. “I mean, there were so
many talented new press agents and marketing execs with

Sondenberg. Britney Spear’s Plastic Surgeon snagged the
honors for best new star, dedicating his award to “mindless
teenage girls and horny
guys everywhere.”

The MTV Video Mu-
sic Awards were estab-
lished in 1984 as a way
of recognizing the bright-
est talents in the indus-

videos on MTV this year, I feel honored to win.”
Backstreet Boys producer R. Richards won top honors

ISMIISI”  
News 

, *: = Shania Twain is celebrating-
I-fher one-millionth inducing of
5 pgfhasturbation after unemployed
R .‘Utica, NY resident Earl T. Potts

. ress!

 
  

‘ Impress Me Much” late last night
 , VH4-
Shanial

. The following rappers were
arrested yesterday: Ice T, Ice
Cube, Vanilla Ice, Rza and Gza.

Pop singer Eagle Eye Cherry

 stocking shelves at the local K-I
  He reports a “pretty good
chance” of landing the job, not-

” good work, Canucks!

, F :‘fPeaches En Regalia” from their
May 30, 1998 show in Boulder,
(CO. The band has been playing
C the extended song for over six-

” provisational orgy of music to the
delight of Phish fans. Currently

rhythmically snoring. Fans are
calling it “the best thing since.
hemp.” ‘ ‘ '

. ’ sic festival for women (and men
rock), -is in for a change thisfall.

Promoters have decided to allow
the Backstreet Boys and N’Sync

‘fesheryl Crow or Alanis
L  Morrisette.” ‘

   

I Led Zeppelin’s Robert Plant

;. gether again and doing what
. ﬂoor.

have officially declared that
bricks have more intelligence
and a greater capacity for inde-
pendent thought than the aver-
age pre-teen girl, pointing to the

~ records by 98°.

; C I ; Limp Bizkit deﬁed compari-
; son to Mozart yet again today!

Last Thursday Appleton,‘

. almost two years that anyone has
 ‘listened to Bush. “I must have

i “when I got this album, but thenl ,
F ’ got sick of it” noted Aakre. I

' Pink Floyd’s legal battles con-
tinue, with Roger Waters filing
 for a restraining order to keep
 David Gilmour from singing
ifonstage. Waters now claims that
"he invented singing in late 1966.
“Before I t‘* *”‘ing invented sing-
") ing and playing f***ing

 f“‘**ing said.

saw her sexy video “That Don’t »

Congratulations,

:0; recently interviewed for a job I

ing that if it falls through, he can I
s - always get a job with his uncle~’s} »
' moving company across town,  ,

.~ V Canadian superstars Sloanre‘-I
 cently celebrated their 300th f .
week ofbeing completely ignored5 *
s’ . einthe United States. Keep up the} 3

I E , Phish is still playing the  

teen months now in a wildiim- S

“‘“f“tli“é:““ib”2iiiil‘ is asleep onstage, S

Lilith Fair, the travelling mu- .

: who enjoy weak, watered-down :

on the bill, as they are all “tech- _
.; nically more feminine than

 and Jimmy Page are back to- ;

for group of the
year, narrowly

edging out nated this year.
N’Sync’s Chore— Perhaps host Chris
ographer/Hair- Rock put it best when
dresser Maurice he said “<censored>
LeFleur and and the <censored>
Kom’s image con- how many more <cen-
sultant Harvey H.

Sharpton demands white people

try. Since the real talent
is now in the boardrooms
rather than onstage, no
actual stars were nomi-

 

Chris Rock presiding
over the final shellacking
of American culture, the

sored> <censored> .” MTV Video Music Awards.

66 ’

Well, I mean, (mumble) you
know, and (mumble mumble)
rather like wot we were,
(laughs) I think (mumble), in
terms of, that is, (mumble)
(laughs), you know, wot we
did in that case there, rather,
(mumble mumble mumble),
well, (laughs) I mean, wot?
Yes, Ithink so. Quite. ,9

upon that in OK Computer.”

Radiohead’s
Thom Yorke

Translation from the original confused British rocker
speak — “I think The Bends was lyrically strong but
musically weak in parts, and I think we really improved

  

give back rap, stick to country

Washington — “We gave you jazz,
we gave you the blues, we gave you
rock n’roll —— isn’t that enough?”
shouted Rev. Al Sharpton to an as-
sembled crowd of
almost 34,000 in
front of the Lin-
coln memorial
yesterday. -

Sharpton led

the march on
Washington in
order to protest
the theft of the
rap music genre
by several up-
a n d - c o m i n g
white musicians.
Rap was pio-
neered by African-Americans in the
l980’s as a new art form which allowed
young black men and women the op-
portunity to express themselves
through music.

But with laughably talentless rap/
metal hybrid acts like Limp Bizkit, Korn
and Kid Rock topping the charts, Af-

 

Rev. Al Sharpton leading yet
another march (#3,678).

rican—American leaders are drawing the
line. “This is one musical style we’re
not going to let you screw up.”
Sharpton said.

Some pun-
dits claim that
making rap a ra-
cial issue will
only increase
the division in
our country.
“ E m i n e m
proves that rap
is not about the
color of your
skin. It’s about
lack of real mu-
sical talent.”
said Yale soci-
ologist Dr. Irving Long.

Others claim that the so-called
“whiteiﬁcation of rap” is good as it
will actually increase middle-
America’s awareness of hiphop
music.

“I mean, who had ever heard of
Robert Johnson before Led Zeppelin

started ripping him
off?” asked Dr.
K r y s t o p h
W i t k 0 w‘ s k i .
Witkowski, a Pro-
fessor of Math-
ematics at MIT, re-
cently published
his theorem that
black music + white
face = lucrative
record contract.
“Elvis knew it, Eric
Clapton knew it,
and now Limp
Bizkit knows it.” Dr.
Witkowski said.

Sharpton promises a hunger strike
if white people do not immediately stop
trying to rap (though it should be
noted that a hunger strike, by
Sharpton’s deﬁnition, means limiting
himself to only ﬁve meals a day).

“Go back to your country music
and your doo-wop,” Sharpton said.
“Stop the plundering of our musical
heritage.”

 

Marchers in
Washington
led by Al
Sharpton
display
catchy,
rhyming
homemade
signs.

Ska artists admit: “we were only kidding”

Los Angeles —— Today the music
world was stunned after every artist in
the ska genre admitted that they were
“only kidding.”

“The idea of adding a ﬁuity-sound-
ing horn section to hardcore rock n’roll
— really, that was alljust a bigjoke,”
admitted Reel Big Fish frontman Aaron
Barrett at a press conference held ear-
lier today. “I mean, come one, you
didn’t think we were serious about that
music . . . did you?”

The music genre known as Ska has
its roots in the early l960’s, when J a-
maican scientists decided to conduct

good bands existed in the sixties, so-
called Third Wave Ska currently ﬂour-
ishes in our barren musical landscape.

rthey do best: snorting lines of”:
cocaine off the hotel bathroom 

A consortium of scientists

fact that relatively few bricks own

 Wisconsin resident Brian Aakre ;. I
 put (Sixteen Stone in his" CD 
._ player, marking the first time 

listened to ‘Glycerine’ 1000 times »

instuments, bands just t‘‘‘**ing ,
I {stood onstage chattingjf Waters

an experiment to ﬁnd out just how lame
a musical style Americans would lis-
ten to if told that it’s “cool.” Though
the test was initially a failure because

Reader Poll

Who is the most worthless per-
son alive?

Eminem — 47%

Art Garfunkel — 14 %

That guy in Mighty Mighty
Bosstones who doesn’t do any-
thing except dance — 13%

That Counting Crows guy — 5 %
Anyone from Sugar Ray —— 4%

A coma patient — 3%

‘numbers may not add up to 100% as our research staff is, like,
really lazy

This week’s question:
If you only had one bullet left,

which Spice Girl would you
take out?

“I’m surprised that so many
people bought into it,” said Save
Ferris’s T-Bone Willy. “I mean, ev-

 

Reel Big Fish will be searching for reel_big
jobs after admitting that ska was “just a

real big joke.”

ery time I walked onstage with
that trombone I thought for
sure I’d be laughed out ofthe

rock concert.”

The announcement has
shocked the thousands of
lemming-like white suburban
teenagers who jumped on the
ska bandwagon. “With ska
gone, we’re now researching
many other musical options to
latch onto,” said white sub-
urban teenager spokesman
Brian O’Connell. “We’re seri-

Album reviews

Note: Since 98% of modern music is entirely unoriginal,
the editors decided that it would be easier to just review
entire genres at once. Fill in the names of the latest al-

bums/stars and create your own ﬁtting record reviews.

I" '_" "t" ‘ '-'

<ﬁll in country album> I pfsnfr f

. . 1c e 0

<ﬁll in country art1st> I Sb I

I um I ,
cover

<album> by <name> promises to be another country
music classic. On the cover is <name>, a white guy in a
cowboy hat. <na 'me>’s lyrics encompass a wide-range of
themes, including love, heartbreak, pick-up trucks, heart-
break and big shiny trucks that run over smaller trucks.
The slide guitar solos really stretch the boundaries of Ev-
erything you thought you knew about slide guitar.
<name>’s irritating country twang sounds so much like
everyone’ else’s country twang, it’s almost unbelievablel
<name> seems to answer critics who say that the country
genre has been entirely redundant for the last 50 years by
saying “what in the hell does ‘re-dundint’ mean?” and
plodding on.

. . . . t
<Fill 1n indie rock album> I gflcstie of
<Fill in indie rock group> I album I
F '  cover I

L _ __ .._ ..._

What do you get when you combine brooding, melan-
choly lyrics with guitar-driven, lo-fr grunge rock? You might
get <a|bum>, the latest release from <band>. Frontman
<name>’s thoughful, poetic lyrics provide a perfect coug-
terpoint to <name>’s effects-laden guitar barrage. Ever
since forming at <name of university> in 1993, <band> has
become one of the most respected and admired groups on
the indie circuit. Although criticized for being “too com-
merci ” after l996’s <old album> received minor play on a
few local college radio stations, <band> rebounded with
1998’s <another old album> EP, a completely inaccessible
half-hour of distortion and feedback. <alhum> is sure to
delight both new and old fans, by which I mean both of

them. ‘ _ _ _ _
paste
<ﬁll in punk rock album> I ,,,c,,,,,, of
<f1ll in punk rock group> album :
COV€I'

<album> the latest release by punk-rockers <band> is a
tasty high-energy treat that never fails to deliver the noise.
The album starts of strong with three ferociously bashed
power chords which repeat and repeat until the next song,
made up of — get this —~ three other power chords! Tracks
three and four utilize a simply one-power chord arrange-
ment to maximum effect, while the epic track ﬁve uses a'
total of —— if you can believe it —— FOUR DIFFERENT
POWER CHORDS! Allin all, <album> features about seven
different notes, making it one of the most musically com-
plex punk albums to come along in years.

,‘ ,5 ~ 3 , 3 5
Band geeks everywhere await re-
entry into the world of permanent
crushing virginity.

ously considering getting into

    

death metal, and we’re also looking
at the viability of getting back into
rap.”

Hardest hit by the announcement
will be band geeks, who have lost the
last remaining “in” musical style they
could play. “Ska was our ﬁnest hour,
our golden age,” said trumpet player

I-Uncle

Billj C©THan’s Waﬂkjl
IKio’a’ie (7?un Section  I

I by Smashing Pumpkin Billy Corgan

darker.

Coloring time

 

l.yn'c Scrambler

1) despite all my rage I am still just a rat in a ____agce
2) love is iudcesi

3) God is pmeyt, just like _ em

4) jukebox kpcuu-f hanging round the

gterosdur

Color in this black box. See if you can make it

Uncle Billy’s riddle
time

It’s bigger than a whale but takes up
no space.

It’s louder than a Marshall stack but
makes no noise.

It gets fatter every day but it never
puts on any weight.

What is it?

 

039 snouuouo Kui I.l3MSU‘€ I

mmmmmmmmmmmm-mmmmmmmmmmmmmmml

Arthur Syzsmanski, formerly of

Holmdel, NJ based ska-combo‘

SkaNaNa.

“I sure hope this neo-swing move-
ment catches on,” Syzsmanski said,
“in order to give a new generation of
band geeks the chance to lose their

virginity.”

Coming next week:

—Billy Corgan com-
poses epic 8-song-cycle
about Rogaine.

—'l'heologians use Kid
Rock's popularity as
proof that a benevolent
God does not exist.

—Co££ee-shop hipster
savagely beaten by peers
for not knowing who
Steve Malkmus is.

—Neo-Psychedelic band =

cites main inﬂuences as
Pink Floyd, Grateful
Dead and “hahaha haha
ha ha ha you know
what I’m talking about
dude.”

—'l‘hn-ee remaining
Beatles reunite for
another ill-conceived
stab at boomer nostal-
gia.

 

‘K

VOLUME 102, NO. 7

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsiTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 ‘Community
.of trust’ in
I question

Assault on student spurs concern, action
on the part of students and administration

1

By Heather McDonald
& Max Smith

STA FF WRITERS

Sleepy little Lexington is the place
that many Washington and Lee Uni-
versity students feel safest. However,

many members of our community are

questioning campus safety after an in-
cident that happened over a week ago.

Sunday, September 12, a W&L stu-
dent was assaulted when leaving
Leyburri Library around 9:30 p.m. Her
attacker pulled a knife on her and cut
her, but she managed to escape. The
attacker is still at large; he is described
as a college-aged white male, 5’8" or
taller, who wore a dark-colored base-

ball cap, a blue shirt and blue jeans.

The victim described the knife used as

a black-handled pocketknife.

“I definitely didn’t think something
like this would happen on campus,”
freshman Teddie Arnold said. Junior

Beth Myers agreed with Arnold.

“I took my safety for granted. Now
you have to look over your shoulder;
you hate not having someone with

you.
In response to the attack, the

Women’s Forum sponsored a Campus
Safety Walk last night. The march
throughout campus began at 9:50 p.m.,
exactly a week after the victim sought
help following the attack. About 40 stu-
dents, mostly women, showed up for
the walk. Participants were led by
Women’ s Forum chairs Nancy Reinhait,
Anne Sharrett and Melissa Sills, and
Dean David Howison joined the march-
ers as a faculty representative. The
walk began at Leybum Library and
made a circular route through campus,
until it ended at the site of the attack
outside the library roughly an hour
later. At the end of the march, partici-
pants signed a petition demanding bet-
ter lighting and a blue-light phone sys-
tem similar to VMI’s.
“It was great to see so much sup-
port,” Sills said. Reinhart agreed.
“Taking an active stance is the way
things will change,” Reinhart said.
One of the few male participants,
freshman Mike Jayson, said that he
participated for personal reasons.
“Five of my closest female friends
have either been attacked or raped,”
Jayson said. “Seeing the attitude on carn-
pus, Ithough it was importantto come.”

. « :4 ,'
photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

TAKING BACK THE NIGHT: Sunday night’s vigil, organized by the Women’s Forum, walked the
campus in protest of safety problems brought to light by last week’s assault on a freshman girl.

As participants marched through
campus, they invited passersby to join
them. However, some of the passersby
made derisive comments, which notice-
ably upset and disturbed some of the
marchers. Howison made reference to
this at the end of the march.

“It takes a critical mass to challenge
negative attitudes when they come up,”
Howison said, following the march.
Earlier today, Howison met with the rest
of the administration at a breakfast meet-
ing and said he would discuss the peti-
tion and the march.

“I’m confident we can make these
changes,” Howison said last night.

photo bymEmily Blames/Photo Editoi'

I THE NEW LEXINGTON SKYLINE: The ﬁve new Sorority houses come a little closer to completion
each day as the builders work towards a Fall 2000 deadline.

Whitebook Review 
"Committee selected 

By Ann Whitham

STAFF WRITER

After a week of interviews and de-
liberation, the Executive Committee
announced the nine students who
will comprise the 1999-2000 White
Book Review Committee. The Com-
mittee includes members from each
undergraduate and law school class.

Rob Bailey ’00L will serve as
1999-2000 committee chairman.

=. Other committee members selected
Friday include: Jorge Aguilar ’O0L,
Daniel Grattan ’00, Kelly Sewell ’00,
Mary Elizabeth Whipple ’00,

I“ Caroline Sozzi ’0l, Allen Jones ’02,

I

A

Shelby McGrain ’02 and Cory Tuck
’03.
Commissioned every three years

to keep Washington and Lee’s honor

system handbook, the White Book,
attuned to the current student
body’s opinions, the Committee will
spend the next few months survey-
ing students and faculty. Using the
ideas they gather as a guide, the
members will present their revisions

to the Executive Committee in Janu-
ary.

Few major changes are usually
made to the White Book, but there
always seems to be one issue that
requires particular attention during
the review process. Three years ago
that issue was fake I.D.’s, as alum-
nus and former committee member
Nate Tencza ’99 remembers well.

“It was a painstaking process,”
Tencza said. “We were often in there
for hours going over every last pe-
riod and comma.”

This year the hot-button issue is a
throwback to a controversial honor
violation case from last year. After a
student was dismissed for misrepre-
senting himself by repeatedly using
another student’s ID card in the D-
hall, there was widespread discontent
and many are still calling for records
of the trial to be made public.

“I think breaching the closed trial
rule damages the system,” says
Tencza. “I hope students give some

As proven by the march, the State
ofsecurity on campus is an immediate
issue for the administration. Director of
Security Mike Young said last week’s
attack is the first assault of this kind
he’s seen in eight years of working here
at Washington and Lee.

“Situations like this heighten secu-
rity awareness and create a certain con-
cern and panic,” said Young.

Young said the security office has
received several calls of near panic over
the incident.

Since the assault, security officers
have spent more time on foot patrol in
the campus area.

Young and other security officials
are also planning a lighting tour with
students and administrators. The light-
ing tour is a walk through campus to
determine what spots need better light-
ing. Young pointed out that fall foliage
makes campus darker than at other times
of the year because it blocks out the
lighting already on campus. Security
and administration have been making
“steady progress” on increasing light-
ing for years now. Yet, Young said in-
creased lighting can’t replace common
sense and security awareness.

SEE ‘ATTACK’ ON PAGE 2

3 Ultra iling-tum tam

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

Bond speaks

NAACP Chairman
addresses freshmen

By Sara Lambert
STAFF WRITER

Noted civil right’s activist Julian
Bond brought a new message to an
overﬂow crowd at Lee Chapel last
Wednesday, calling for continued
white remediation for social, economic,
and legal inequities -incurred against
blacks throughout history.

“Affirmative action is the just spoils

of a righteous war,” said Bond, the
chaimian of the NAACP.

Bond’s speech, titled “2001: A
Race Odyssey,” acted in conjunction
with the topics discussed in this
year’s freshman reading, Coming of
Age in Mississippi, by Anne Moody.
In his speech Bond reiterated
Moody’s frustration with the deep
and seemingly irreconcilable divi-
sions between blacks and whites.
Bond equated the situation to a foot-
ball game where the white team is
ahead 145 to 3, and had been cheat-
ing the entire game. “All of a sudden
the white quarterback, who feels
badly about things that happened be-
fore he entered the game, turns to the
black team and says, ‘hey fellas can’t
we just play fair?’,” said Bond.

Though an even playing field has
always been the goal of civil rights ac-
tivists, Bond says this type of retribu-
tion ignores the problem and mairitain-
ing the racial injustices that still exist.

“But fair in that game is double-
speak for freezing the status quo in
place; permanently fixing inequality
as part of the American scene,” con-
tinued Bond. “The opponents of fair-

SEE ‘BOND’ ON PAGE 2

Sorority housesrise over skyline

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

To anyone walking across the foot-
bridge this fall, it’s hard to avoid notic-
ing ﬁve new buildings that appeared
out of nowhere this Summer. The build-
ings, the future site of Washington and
Lee’s sorority houses show marked
improvement from the barren construc-
tion site that students saw last May.

“The houses are right on schedule,”
said Panhellenic President Holly Shiver.
“ The houses should be completed by
next July and be livable by next August.”

Part of W&L’s strategic plan for
renovation, the project was approved
by the Board of Trustees in order to
give sorority members a place they
could live together, eat meals, and hold
chapter meetings. Currently the five so-
rorities on campus hold chapter meet-
ings in various campus buildings, and
maintain sorority suites in Gaines Hall.

“The sorority houses will finally give
us a chance to call a place our own,”
said Sorority Housing Committee mem-

I

,»

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

thought to their answers when they is THERE A FOOTBALL GAME TODAY? Scott Hudson and company
relax at the tailgate preceding Saturday"s football game.

are surveyed.”

ber Elizabeth Holleman. “Up to this
point there has been no opportunity
for many members of one sorority to
live together.”

Located adjacent to Wilson Field,
the houses are designed differently
than the fratemity houses that students
are used to. According to Holleman,
who recently toured the largely fm-
ished Chi-Omega house, the bottom
ﬂoor consists of a TV room, a house
mother’s suite, and a chapter room. The
chapter room will contain room for so-
rority meetings and an office for the
president. The second ﬂoor will be
reached by a master staircase and will
feature the dining room, a study/sun
room, and a large living room. The third
ﬂoor will serve as the living quarters,
with space for 20 women.

“The houses are going to be both
beautiful, and more importantly, very
functional for all the sororities,” said
Holleman.

While the construction continues on
the houses, the committee in charge of
the housing project still has many is-
sues to deal with before implementation
of the sorority houses is complete. The
most important include the selection pro-
cess of occupants for the 20 available
spots in each house, and changing meal
plan opportunities.

“A lot of things are still in the plan-
ning stages right now,” said Shiver.
“Each sorority will probably have a
unique way of detennining who lives
in each house, and who eats there
when.”

Though the oﬁicial University policy
for the sorority houses has yet to be
codiﬁed, according to Holleman, it will
boil down to no alcohol, and no males
on the third ﬂoor. These rules will be
enforced by the house mothers and
security. The houses will also not have
parties like their fraternity counterparts,
but will play host to receptions for spe-
cial events such like Parent’s Weekend
or Homecoming.

One of the major issues surround-
ing the new houses has been the ques-
tion of whether or not they will create
isolation and rivalry between members
of different sororities. The lack of indi-
vidual sorority housing has meant that
sorority members often live with mem-
bers of other sorority houses. Some
members have raised concerns about
the possible effects of the houses on
their current friendships. Others, how-
ever, have embraced the idea and are
looking forward to the experience.

“I think it will be a great bonding ex-
perience and will help strengthen soror-
ity identity,” said junior KD Erica Bahn.

When asked if she foresees the
houses creating rivalries and isolation
between sororities, Bahn said She
thinks relations will remain “friendly
and open.”

Panhellenic President Holly Shiver
agreed, saying it will change things, but
not for the worse.

“I think they are a really good thing
for this school. It will change the dy-
narnic of the sorority experience, but I.
think that will be a positive change.”

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:
Close, but no cigar

LAST WORD:

(J11: Tiling-tum iﬁlti
September 20, 1999

OPINION: . _
Wafﬂe House, a dining sensation

Junior Marvin concert & upcoming events

Miss America in the feminist age

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

\

.1
\

PAGE2 ‘ 9

P I @112 ﬂing-tum ﬂirts

‘ATTACK’ FROM PAGE 1

“After 32 years in this business,” said Young, “I’ve
learned you can’t make night into daylight.”

Associate Dean of Students and university psycholo-
gist Anne Schroer-Lamont says that isn’t the issue.

“We’re not asking for night to be turned into day. We
want to address the issues of better lighting, security es-
corts, and trimming back shrubbery.”

She mentioned some poorly lit spots around campus,
such as the track and the various paths to Woods Creek.
She also called for the shrubbery around the entrance to the
main part of campus from the Corral to be trimmed back or
removed.

“Ever since the first term women have been at Washing-
ton and Lee, they have complained about those bushes,”
said Schroer-Lamont. “We’re just waiting for something to
happen.”

She went on to explain that the administration has re-
fused to touch the bushes since they are an alumni gift.

Another facet of campus security called into question
aﬁer the assault are campus call boxes or “blue lights”. There
are 13 boxes across campus. Some have blue lights on the
top, others are built into a wall. Young says security rarely
receives emergency calls from the boxes. He says some
boxes have never even been used. Young insists that the
boxes won’t work unless people use them. Some adminis-
trators and students question the locale and number of boxes.

“There are not enough blue light phones on this cam-
pus,” said Dean Schroer-Lamont. She said call boxes are
more prevalent at other schools. For example, at the College
of William and Mary, one can see a call box within 20 yards
of another from any point on campus.

Student-run campus escort services are another security
measure some administrators are calling for here at Wash-
ington and Lee. These students would be available to es-
cort other students at all times. According to Dean Schroer-
Lamont, the College of William and Mary currently offers
this program staffed by work study students.

Chief Young said students need to be more aware of their
surroundings and potential problems. He advises avoiding
suspicious areas, going to places in pairs or groups, and
calling security to act as an escort whenever needed.

“There’s always safety in numbers,” said Young.

In a separate interview, Dean David Howison echoed the
need for students to exercise more caution on campus.

“A tragedy like this shakes us up,” said Howison. “Since
we live in a relatively safe community, many people. includ-
ing me, take safety for granted.”

Howison insisted that the administration is always open
to suggestions from students to make Washington and Lee
safer.

“If there are legitimate ways to improve security, the
money is less important than the end result."

He also noted that the Honor System fosters a sense of
security that can be violated. Upon arrival, he noticed many
students 1eﬁ..b.ooks and 0,ther..pQssessi0r1s. around campus.

  

Save up to 40

“Our sense of safety comes from the Honor System and
that’s the dilemma,” said Howison. “All of us feel liberated
because of the Honor System, so we might not take the
precautions we would in a different setting.”

Schroer-Lamont also discussed the implications of the
attack on the community.

“Students need to be a bit more careful about being out
in pairs,” Schroer-Lamont said. “Friends need to check on
each other, and people need to be a little more conscious
about their surroundings.” Furthermore, she suggested that
men take the lead in watching out for their female friends.

“Men do not have this night fear, and they cannot frilly
understand how it feels,” Schroer-Lamont said. “It takes a
lot of courage for someone to say, ‘Will you walk me home?,’”
Sc_hroer_-Lamont said. She suggested that if a friend doesn’t
want to walk home alone, even if you aren’t planning on
leaving the party at that point, it is a gesture of trust and
friendship to leave with that person in order to make sure
they get home safely. However, Schroer-Lamont says that
some people might read this request for company as an
invitation for something more.

“This is not an-invitation. Guys need to be particularly
careful not to read anything into [the request],” Schroer-
Lamont said. She explained that if a man uses a request for
an escort as an excuse to initiate romantic activity, the woman
may feel violated if she did not have romance in mind.

Resident assistant Daniel Sozomenu, a junior, said that
while he feels more safe than a female resident probably
does, the new information about the knife makes the inci-
dent more frightening to everyone. He said some of his
residents expressed concern after information came out about
the attack.

“Most people are handling the situation well. It was an
isolated in ident. Now it’s become something more of a
curiosity or of intrigue. There’s no panic.”

Sophomore Aubrie Mann, who participated in the Cam-
pus Safety Walk, disagreed.

“I don’t feel safe at all at night,” Mann said. “[The as-
sault] has completely changed my perspective. I will not go
to the library and that used to be my place to study. I won’t
leave my apartment at night unless someone is picking me
up or I’m with a large group offriends.”

Mann, a resident of Woods Creek Apartments, said,
“There is no good way to get home.” The library path to
Woods Creek is not paved and not well lit, Mann said, and
there are no call boxes. Mann went on to describe another
pathway to Woods Creek, which runs underneath the foot-
bridge. There are no lights and the path has a ravine on one
side of it.

“Probably the safest way [to Woods Creek] is to take the
footbridge to the law school,” Mann said, “but even once
you’ve reached the playing fields, it’s not well lit. One of the
lights on the way has burned out.” Mann said that while the
campus itself is aesthetically pretty, the curving pathsand
trees which are so pleasing to the eye in the day create

places to hide at night.

“You can’t see and you can’t be fully aware ofyour sur-
roundings all of the time [because of the campus design],”
Mann said.

When asked how the attack affected campus attitude,
Mann said it seems that people are more afraid.

“It has kind of inhibited the speaking tradition, by put-
ting up a barrier,” Mann said. “People aren’t as friendly, and
seem a bit shaken by the incident.”

Sozomenu agreed that campus security could be in-
creased.

“I know call boxes are expensive but I think there needs
to be more call boxes, perhaps on both sides of Woods
Creek and also on the back side of the library,” Sozomenu
said. “The idea of a campus escort service is a great idea.
On larger campuses, it’s standard.”

No matter what measures security or the administration
take, the safety of students is not something that can be
guaranteed.

“We can’t ever ensure safety, although we can make the
campus as safe as possible,” Dean Schroer-Lamont said.
Mann said that while she thinks the campus will feel more
safe once the attacker is caught, she doesn’t think the inci-
dent will be completely forgotten.

“The attitude of the campus won’t go back to the same
level. Now people are watching out for themselves and
each other a lot more. I don’t think it will go back to the
same secure feeling at night. Our little W&L bubble burst.”

 

‘BOND’ FROM PAGE 1

ness speak evil while refusing to see it or hear it. They’re
now promoting a racial version of ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’
they want us to become invisible in silence.”

Bond also spoke about the birth of the Civil Rights
movement and the events that he witnessed and took part
in.

“Less than ten years after [the Civil War] ended, the
nation sided with the losers and agreed to continue black
subjugation for almost a hundred years,” stated the activ-
ist. “We’re asked to believe that no permanent damage
was done to the oppressors or the oppressed.”

Dr. Bond’s speech and the ensuing question and an-
swer period provoked a mixed reaction from Washington
and Lee students, although most agreed he was an effec-
tive speaker.

“I thought he was a very good speaker,” said freshman
Emma Thomas. “The way he related to the audience was
good.”

Thompson’s classmate Karl Kuersteiner agreed, say-
ing the speech “gave an interesting twist to the notion of
racism.”

“I think it shows a lot ofguts. I am sure he didn’t come
in here thinking there would be a lot of NAACP fans,”
added Kuersteiner.

  

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

E-mail General Notes to 2-.
’phi@wlu.‘edu I"

W&L receives $1 1 .9 million gift

Washington and Lee University has received a bequest .
worth $1 1.9 million from the estate of Mr. & Mrs. J. Edward '
Lewis. The gift, which will be used for scholarship support
for students from West Virginia, is the second-largest one-
time gift in W&L history.

“We are profoundly grateﬁil to Mr. and Mrs. Lewis for).
this marvelously generous gift to the University’s scholar-
ship endowment,” W&L president John Elrod said.

Mr. Lewis, a native of Oak Hill, W. Va., graduated from
W&L in 1929 and went on to a successful banking career.
He passed away in 1971. His wife, Elizabeth, passed away
on June I, 1999. She was a graduate of Marshall University
where the school’s college of business is named in her honor.

Following her husband’s death, Mrs. Lewis generously
supported the J. Edward Lewis Scholarship Fund on an:
annual basis, helping a number of West Virginia students‘
attend W&L. The recent bequest will be used to endow
that fund.

Nominations for Who’s Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate a member of the cur-
rent undergraduate senior class for selection to Who ’s Who
Among Students in American Universities and Colleges
may do so by submitting the name and qualifications of l“
that student to David Howison, Dean of Students, in Payne
Hall 9 by October 1, I999.

Criteria for Who ’s Who include 1) scholarship, 2) partici-
pation and leadership in academic and extracurricular ac—}
tivities, 3) citizenship and service to Washington and Lee,
and 4) potential for future achievement.

“Touch of Evil” to show at Troubadour J‘

Washington and Lee University’s Film Society will show
“Touch of Evil” (USA, 1958), directed by Orson Welles Sep-
tember 24 and 25 in the Troubadour Theater on Henry
Street. The ﬁlm will be shown at 8 p.m., which is a change p-
from the normal 7:30 p.m. viewing. There will be no charge
for admission, although contributions are very welcome.

This re-release of Welles’ 1958 masterpiece of ﬁlm noir
is considered the “director’s cut” — more closely resem-
bling the f1lmmaker’s original intentions. Adapted by Welles ‘
from a pulp novel called “Badge of Evil,” the ﬁlm tells a
sordid story of murder, corruption, and intrigue along the
Mexican border. The cast is a marvel in itself, including
Charlton Heston, Janet Leigh, Marlene Dietrich and Welles I
himself. Already a cult classic, the reappearance of “Touch
of Evil” is ensuring its place as one ofthe masterpieces of
American cinema. ' ‘ '

 

Your Online College Bookstore

% on new textbooks.

Get them in 1-3 business days. Guaranteed:

JAE-.l.!?S G. I.E‘r"9t_I.'—=..\ .=_:.'-2:...-*.._,-,.-:

vv.'\el-+m<.3ro==r a. LEE UNNEFISITY

LEXINGT ON, VA 24450

00

*Books delivered in no more than three business days or your shipping is refunded. Some restrictions apply. See www.varsitybooks.com for details.

L

   

 

I

  
 

  

PAGE 3

he Itiing-tum lﬂlri

PINION

Loyal customer extolls virtues
of “scattered, smothered...”

I was a little disappointed with last week’s quote of the
week. I don’t care what anybody says, Wafﬂe House is a
great place. You can go any time, day or night and enjoy
quality food and service. Perhaps the best way to capture
my love of Wafﬂe House is to explain where it all began.

I had my ﬁrst Waﬁle House experience about six years
ago. I was in Atlanta with my family and for some reason,
we decided to stop at one of the hundreds of Wafﬂe Houses
down south. From that day on, my
loyalties deﬁnitely were with Wafﬂe
House. Where else can you get
wafﬂes, hashbrowns, T-bone steaks,
and fast and friendly service? I can’t
really say what it is that draws me to
Wafﬂe House, but it deﬁnitely is
something. Words cannot do justice to the feeling that I
got when I saw the Wafﬂe House sign in Lexington. My
mom sent me an article last year telling about the chance of
Wafﬂe House coming to Lexington. At the time there was
a large dispute about the Wafﬂe House sign, but thar1k-
fully any and all problems were worked out.

One of my most memorable visits -to a Wafﬂe House
was in Smithﬁeld, NC. I was with my mom and sister. We
had ordered and were in the middle of eating our wafﬂes
when my mom read on e of their many signs. “No personal

'checks accepted.” My mom looked around nervously and

quietly told my sister and me that she had no cash, only

- her checkbook. We were scared that we were going to

have to do the dishes to pay for our food. My mom called
Cecil Rook over, a Wafﬂe House chef that will never be
forgotten, and told him that we had no money. She asked

A’ Rook if she could write him a check and he could pay

LETTERS TO

Ultimate frisbee team needs
and deserves practice ﬁeld

Dear Editor,

I’m a senior here and have been working on an ulti-
mate frisbee team at Washington and Lee for three years.
Most folks just don’t think of ultimate as a major sport. I
assure you it is. It will be a medal sport in the 2001 World
Games.

While I’ve been putting a team together for three
years, we’ve played other colleges, and even won a few
times. But this year they took away our ﬁeld. We’ve got
no place to play or practice. They gave it to the ﬁeld
hockey team since they are trying to become a varsity

' sport. I talked to Coach Lyles, but he’s already having
trouble trying to ﬁt all the club sports, law sports, and
IMs on two ﬁelds. I understand (I think) the massive
paperwork needed for club sports. Yet all these years we
always tried to be good guys; always sharing the ﬁeld if
I saw club lacrosse, ﬁeld hockey, softball, rugby or law
sports needing some space. Hell, we even shared it with
the wrestling team.

We understood there was limited space and we just
had to share. And yet here we are, the ones who get
screwed. We can try to move the game to the Colonnade
, but that grass won’t last long, and besides, a lot of
students just like to relax there and enjoy the day. Hey -
I’ve even tried to get VMI to give me some space. There’s
got to be some way, especially with the addition of the

 

Louie Blue
Carly Blake1ock"01

 

Wafﬂe House, but unfortunately he couldn’t help us. In_—
stead, Cecil told us to finish our food and leave. He said
that he would just trust us to come back to Wafﬂe House
and pay him then. My mom told him that we were just
passing through and wouldn’t be back to that part of the
state for weeks. He said that we could take as long as we
wanted. He knew that we would be back. My mom never
forgot Cecil and sure enough a few weeks later we stopped
by and paid our bill and left a little
something extra for Cecil. Now that’ s
something that doesn’t happen ev-
eryday.

Wafﬂe House not only ranks high
on my list because of its food, but also
because of its versatility. You can play
“Wafﬂe House” songs on the jukebox, ﬁnd Wafﬂe House
t-shirts all over town, or try the newest prepared way to eat
them hashbrowns. My roommate found a nice Wafﬂe
House t-shirt with the quote, “Eat my grits...and eggs...and
wafﬂes...and chicken” that I will wear with pride. Some-
times you can even be blessed enough to be given one of
those charming paper hats or borrow one of the Wafﬂe
House employees’ bandana head pieces. Wafﬂe House is
a place to grab a quick bite to cat by ordering in the
hashbrown lingo, “scattered, smothered and covered”, a
place to socialize with friends, or enjoy a lovely view of
Lexington.

So, please, if you haven’t visited the Wafﬂe House in
Lexington, make it a point to do it this weekend. Go any-
time, they’re always open. Have a waffle, some hashbrowns,
the best coffee in America. Just try it once, and I’m sure
you’ll go back for more!

THE EDITOR

new baseball stadium, that ﬁeld space can be found. I walk
around the ﬁelds and I often see some empty - but unus-
able to non-varsity sports. I’m not going to say something
cheesy, like it’s not in accord with Washington and Lee
ethics, it’s just tough sh**. But that doesn’t mean we
have to take it sitting down. I ask students and the admin-
istration to see if those ﬁelds may be used more efﬁciently.
Thanks,
Andrew Hartnagel ’00

Freshman dissatisﬁed with
political “lecture”

Dear Editor,

When I read about the address to the freshman class
by Mr. Julian Bond (entitled “2000: A Race Odyssey”), I
expected a thought-provoking analysis of the current state
of race relations in America. What I got instead was a
superﬁcial, politically motivated tirade that was long on
assertions but short on real analysis. The only two themes
I was able to decipher were “Afﬁrmative Action is good”
and “Republicans are bad.” He provided nothing but an-
ecdotal evidence for the necessity and effectiveness of
Afﬁrmative Action. He also implied that anyone who
wanted to end Afﬁnnative Action must be a dangerous
racist.

When Dean Dalhouse made the introduction, he in-

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

 

formed us that Mr. Bond was a member of the Georgia
legislature and a professor at UVA. What we heard was
too much of the politician and not enough of the intellec-
tual. That same talk could just as easily have come from
the mouth of Jesse Jackson or Bill Clinton.

The freshman orientation handbook described the ad-
dress as a “lecture.” It was only a lecture in the sense that
a parent might “lecture” his child,'ending with “Because I
told you so.”

Will Martin ’03

Dalhouse responsible for
freshman service project

Dear Editor,

We wish to correct an inaccuracy in the sub-title of
Sara Lambert’s informative and excellent story in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi. Although students from the Shep-
herd Poverty Program assisted Dean Mark Dalhouse in
planning and executing the program, the pre-orientation
week was initiated and planned by Dean Dalhouse. We
applauded Dean Dalhouse’s efforts and supported him in
small ways, but the Shepherd Program did not fund, plan,
nor manage this excellent program for freshmen. We are
grateful to Dean Dalhouse, to Sara Lambert, and to the
Phi for the event and the prominent story. We hope this
will be the ﬁrst year in a tradition for new freshmen at
Washington and Lee. -

Harlan Beckley

Director, Shepherd Poverty Program

Lucy Baldwin

Volunteer Coordinatory, Shepherd Poverty Program

Women’s forum urges admin-
istration to reaccess safety

Dear Editor,

A female student was attacked outside of Leybum
Library on Sunday September 12, I am sure that we all
heard this “news”. But did we really listen?

This incident should be a clear signal to every mem-
ber of this campus that Washington and Lee is not the
bubble world we often make it out to be. Crime and sexual
assault have been very real issues on campus since co-
education in 1985. Unfortunately, only physical manifes-
tations as these force us to face and discuss these often
silenced issues.

As co-chair of Women’s Forum, I ﬁnd it particularly
alarming that we lack several basic characteristics of a
safe campus, such as adequate lighting and convenient
security phone system.

Students in both Woods Creek Apartments and the
law school have sent us concerns about these problems.
While these concerns are not new, hopefully they will
now be addressed.

In response to the attack, Women’s Forum held a walk
around campus last night. We carried a petition request-
ing increased lighting and security phones in several
dangerous areas across campus. We strongly hope to
see prompt administrative action regarding these con-
cems.

Sincerely,

Nancy L. Reinhart

Co-chair Women’s Forum

Clip: Zﬂing-tum iﬂhi

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Photo Editor Emily Barnes
Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin

Online Editor Ali Soydan

Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
htrp://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Player to students: Two halves to football

Coming out of the locker room at halftime of Saturday’s
football game reminded me of why its so hard to be an athlete
at Washington and Lee. Down only twelve points to Guilford,
we came out for the second half looking to improve on our ﬁrst
half mistakes and win our home opener. Pumped and ready to

go, we ran

. ,_ —"""""—"‘—"“"“ out _ onto
   Bad<porch Baldendash Wilson to
 ,1 I. . . , once again
W . Michael Cnttenden 01 ﬁndthatour
“loyal” fans

had abandoned us to take their afternoon naps, or to injure
themselves on the beer slide.

Thanks again, your support is very much appreciated (note
the dripping sarcasm).To those of us who spend 20 hours a
week at practice, watching video, and getting prepared to lay it
out on the ﬁeld on Saturdays, it’s a morale killer to discover
that your peers have deserted you for a few cocktails. I will
take this chance to thank the loyal groups of fans who do stay
for every game and cheer loudly during the games.

Your support is more than encouraged and is something
that is truly valuable to the guys on the ﬁeld. I know it means
a lot to the guys on the team when you hear someone yell
your name (thanks Adam). Support and respect of your class-
mates is something that a majority of the students at this
school need a little lesson in. It is bad enough that administra-
tion seems to not be concerned with athletes in scheduling
big events (as evidinced by the scheduling of the
Bicinquenquagenary Ball last year on a weekend when the
football team was playing an away game. Arrving home too
late to attend, the players were unable to join in the revelry of
their classmates), but when you combine that with a lack of
student support it deﬂates the morale of student athletes.
Though never able to attend, I understand perfectly the de-
sire to tailgate and get a little buzz going before the game.

I have no concept of the reasoning behind the student
body’s desire to leave early. To those of you who did leave
early, I suggest that next time you may want to stay for a
whole game. If you missed the end of the game Saturday
(which we lost FYI), you missed a great second half by your

team, and a narrow last-minute defeat. You are probably the
same fans who missed the last-second, game winning ﬁeld
goal against Sewanee last year during Parent’s Weekend. So
check it out and support your fellow student athletes, who
spend innumerable amounts of time and effort outside of their
academic and social lives to do something they enjoy.

,.....

   
 

 

fuote of the Week:

(( a
That naked girl at Chi

Psi only added to the

sketchiness of late night
—Anonymous junior guy }}

 

“I was disappointed. I expected to
see things ﬂying around.”
-Tyler Green "03

“It was the driest hurricane I’ve
ever seen.”

-Allison Shank ’03

“The journalistic community sensational-
izes EVERYTHlNG—Hurricane Floyd was
another let-down.”

-Will Teichman ’03

“Floyd was an appropriate name for
it. It’sjust like ‘Emily’-such a dud.”
-Mary Fonnan ’03

 

PAGE 4

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

' there are three basic reasons

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

As the new millennium draws
near the use of technology is be-

comin increasin l revalent in
8

our society. Each day new techno-

"logical advancements are made in

TMC opens doors of technology

said, “and I’m really excited to be
working in the most sophisticated
facility on campus. I think it’s great
that We’ve expanded our services
and abilities this year to include not
only foreign languages but the en-
tire school.”

Class use ofthe old facility had in-

Not just a roommate

class usage of the Center. The
TMC also now has its own media
server called “Helga.”

“I don’t think that one will dis-
pute the fact that the process of digi-
tization in the media industry has
brought about a whole new era of
possibilities and ease in the opera-

order to make our daily tasks
more convenient and efficient.

Universities across the nation
have also realized the essential
need for the use of technology
in the classroom.

Proof of this trend can be seen
here at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in the form of the newly
renovated Tucker Multimedia
Center for the Humanities.

_ Upperclassmen and faculty
may remember the Center’ s much
smaller predecessor, the Tucker
Multimedia Center for Foreign
Languages, which became un-
able to meet the rising technologi-
cal needs of both students and
faculty.

“I guess you can say that

for the renovations: the qual-
ity of equipment available to-
day, the need for more faculty
and staff professional develop-
ment and an atmosphere condu-
cive to learning that would bring
forth the best in our students
and teachers,” Dr. Dick
Kuettner, Director ofthe Tucker
Multimedia Center, said. “Thus
the purpose of the proposal and
the vision behind it.”

The TMC now serves not only
the language departments but all de-
partments considered part of the
humanities curriculum, and it wel-
comes any department within the
W&L community.

“This is my first year as a TMC
assistant,” junior Deena Johnson

 

creased fourfold, a growth which far
exceeded the Center’ s capacity. Often
students had to be turned away and
classes were unable to meet in the
TMC due to lack of physical space
and equipment.

The recent renovations have not
only significantly increased the
facility’s holding capacity but the
number of computers and quality of
technological equipment.

The Center is completely digitized,
allowing for higher quality audio and
video programs for the use of students
and easier access to such software.

  

Photo courtesy of P.R. Kuettner

The comfortable, quiet atmosphere of the TMC and its variety
of high-tech computer, audio and visual equipment provide a
wonderful learning oppurtunity for both students and faculty.

tion of the ever increasing number
of resources in our technological so-
ciety,” Kuettner said.

“Equipping the university for the
future is, or course, our ultimate
goal,” Kuettner said. “I hope we will
be proud to enter the next millen-
nium with what the TMC has to of-
fer, and we at the TMC look forward
to working with the entire commu-
nity in bringing about a spirit of.
unity with technology and its wise
use at the very core.”

Many W&L students have also been
extremely impressed by the new Center.

Two more teaching areas have

been added to facilitate multiple

“I knew that W&L had a strong

Romance Language Department be-

fore I came here, but when I saw
the facilities here, I was simply
blown away,” freshman Nick
Ramsey said. “I talked to some of
my friends at other universities
and they couldn’t believe that we
have something so high-tech as
the TMC.”

Kuettner will also be imple-
menting a vigorous program di-
rected at faculty and student
training and development in the
technological ﬁeld.

Technology changes daily
and therefore such training is
viewed as an on-going process
by the TMC staff.

“Technology is here to stay
and we must make ourselves lit-

erate as to its utilization,”
Kuettner said.

“And I don’t mean just tum-
ing on the switch and going for
a ride. We all need to make the
most of our resources, taking ﬁill
advantage of our knowledge
and talents.”

The new TMC was con-
structed under Kuettner’s direc-
tion and using funds provided
by the University and an edu-
cational grant in excess of
$300,000 supplied by the Charles
E. Culpepper Foundation.

A website, www.tmc.wlu.edu,
has been created to provide more
information regarding the objec-
tives and policies ofthe TMC.

“Technology should not be used
just for the sake of technology, but
for the sake of those using it,” wrote
Kuettner in his original proposal to
the Foundation.

The beneﬁt of having such tech-
nology available for student and
faculty use in the Tucker Multirne—
dia Center should prove to be in-
valuable to the Washington and Lee
community.

“Junior Marvin revives legend

By Sonia Hall

STA FF WRITER

In less than a week, Bob

3 Marley’s legendary guitarist and
 vocalist, Junior Marvin, will have
2 his audience rocking to his eclectic
 sounds in the Student Pavilion as
, he “carries on the legend.”

The W&L community, as well as

 others lucky enough to be in-
1 formed, will be treated to a fresh mix
 of reggae, Latin music and other
; contemporary vibes as the band
7 makes its first U.S. stop on their

Z three-month-old world

tour,

i “Burnin’ Love into the Millenium.”

The concert, graced with talents
from all over the world, will feature
Brazilian guest band Djambi. The
entourage also includes artists
from Canada, England, the USA
and, of course, the Caribbean.

The first leg of their tour took
Junior Marvin and Friends through
Europe with a crowd of over 6,000
at a Belgian concert, three sold-out
concerts in Switzerland and simi-
lar results in Germany. The ex-
Whaler continues to prove that
reggae, and particularly the clas-
sic lyrics ofthe Honorable Robert
Nesta Marley, hold a universal
message.

Army might pay it off.

for each year of service,
whichever is greater.

You’ll also have training
in a choice of skills and
‘enough self—assurance

to last you the rest of
your life.

Get all the details
from your Army
Recruiter.

 

WE’ LL ERASE YOUR
COLLEGE LOAN.

If you’re stuck with a (federally insured)
student loan that’s not in default, the

If you qualify, we’ll reduce your
debt—up to $65,000. Payment is
either 1/3 of the debt or $1,500

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

The idea of the event, which
originated with past International
Club president Bill Overbaugh ’99,
soon grabbed the enthusiasm of
multiple other campus organiza-
tions this summer.

By August, the Office of Inter-
national Education, PRIDE, and the
Student Activities Board had all
joined with the International Club
to bring this little piece of Jamaica
to Lexington.

“I think it’s really refreshing,”
PRIDE Secretary Gabby Best said.
“It’s different from the usual fra-
ternity party, the usual band. . . I
think this concert represents a real
step towards promoting diversity
on campus.”

The planning of this event has
indeed been a unifying endeavor
for many people. Friday night
should present an even more re-
freshing atmosphere as students
and friends of the W&L commu-
nity enjoy the common language
of music. ‘

Tickets cost $10 each for the
W&L community, and will be on
sale each day this week in front of
the Co-op from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Ell

  Upcoming     

 

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Roommates hacking each other’s
hair off, kicking each other out for op-
posite-sex company, blaring their tacky
music. . . everyone has heard the hor-
ror stories.

Rooming with someone, however,
does not necessarily mean a trip to buy
earplugs, buying life insurance, or fmd-
ing another place to crash should the
need arise.

Living together can bring people
together. Roommates can become life-
long friends.

Several sophomore women have
found that some of the first people they
met here at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity have remained their best friends.

Mandy Cannon and Veronica
Grifﬁth are two sophomore roommates
who live with three of their best friends
in a suite in Gaines.

Grifﬁth automatically clicked with
virtually all the women on her fresh-
man hall last year and eight of those 13
are currently living on the same hall
again as sophomores in Gaines.

“When we first met on the hall, little
did we know we would become long-
time friends and live together our
sophomore year,” Griffith said. “We in-
stantly formed bonds that would last
forever.”

These “Gilliam girls” went to par-
ties, played dress up, threw birthday
and Christmas parties and took road
trips together as freshmen.

Now that they are sophomores in
Gaines, things are not much different.

“We have nights when we just get
together in someone’s room and talk
until 6:30 a.m.,” Cannon said.

She and Griffith described how all
of their suite mates had determined to
have each other as bridesmaids at their
weddings. Cannon described the
women as “very close, lifelong friends.”

Griﬁith explained that the close-knit
friendship the women share came from

living together, spending so much time
together and knowing so much about
each other.

“We talk about relationships, our
friends, things we worry about, dreams,
everything,” she said.

The women plan to live with each
other for the remainder of their time at
W&L. They do not see this as limiting,
however, because they love going out
and meeting new people together. They
believe that they are each other’s core
group of friends and that they will al-
ways be there for one another.

Perhaps most impressive is the story
of four senior women who lived in the
same Gilliam hall their freshman year.
,They remain the greatest of friends and
two of the women still live together. ,

Kelley Gilbert, Sula Jacobs, Emily

Schulz, and Kelly Scott met each other
as freshman hallmates.

“We spent a lot of time just hanging
out in the hall,” Gilbert said, talking
about the little lounge they made out
of a nook in the hall. “We’d go out to
parties together, to Roanoke, to mov-
ies and to eat together. We also did
Spring Break together.”

The girls grew very close during
their time together as hallmates and
they decided to get a suite together
their sophomore year in Gaines.

“Almost our entire hall stuck to-
gether,” Gilbert said. Their junior and
senior years, Schulz and Jacobs split
off to become RAs and Dorm Counse-
lors, but they still spent a lot of time as
a foursome. ,

As seniors Gilbert and Scott still live
together. All the girls still make an ef-
fort to spend a lot of time together.

“They’re the people that know you
the best. . . We’ve never had a problem
we couldn’t get past,” Gilbert said. “I’d
definitely say we’re lifelong friends.”

So when you are feeling lonely,
cheer up. It is possible that your roomie
will someday evolve into more than just
an answering service — perhaps into
someone you can call a real friend.

 

(note by nu y Bames/Photo Editor

BACKSTAGE: comedy group Second City Friday night, after their Lenfest Center performance.

 
  
 
  
 

 

 

FjiIin,.socie¢y.‘frouchorEvi1”(UsA, 1953), g
 by_Orson Weiies. Troubadorcinema. I ,__i

’ ‘ 0‘ ages“. :....:;.. Marvin I,-‘Bob Ma.rley’s legendary guilii
tarist and vocalist. W&L Student Pavilion. . 

“topical-§Party,  Chi. Band: “Super Star.”

 

  

540-886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Tuesday, September 21  if

   

 

  ‘sotutidayﬁéeptember 25
I pg 9:00 am.’ Tennis (M). W&L Tennis Classic. Varsity
-  ‘ : Courts. (W&L, Averett, College of New

8:45 a.m. Golf. W&L Fall Classic. Lexington Gcrrailcounuy cm:

Alpha Epsilon Delta Health Professions Seminar. “Medical » V A

  
  

A 5:00 p.m. A A ‘  .I.ersey,v1v1r) -
— School Admissions,” Dr.‘ Donald W. Lewis, associate dean , . ' 9 A ' . — ‘ * A '
for admissions, Eastern Virginia Medical School. Room A214, Football. Hall of Fame Game. W&L vs. Centre 9
Science Center. , .. L College. Wilson Field. A ' "
38:00 p.m. Faculty Recital. Jerry Myergjbaritone,  Gaylard,7 =5,“ l 7  Band  3 “A1111? B’S Rtweilge-” Fiji. 5  I A

piano. Lenfest Center.

0. Septemberjzo ,. 

_ V .}Tennis.(M). W&LTennis Classic, Day2.Varsity;'
 . ‘Courts. (W&L, Averett, College ofNew
Jersey,VMI)

Wednesday, $eptembér»24ii  V
‘ ~8:00?p.m. s FijipartyatCabixi5;V2.$A‘ 

9:30 pm. . DJ Party, Phi Psi.

...._._..

PAGE 5

SEORTS

 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999?

Women’s soccershows us the money (and the scoreboard) '9?

By Frances Groberg

SPOR TS EDITOR

You’d thunk it was a different team out there.

Despite losing its ﬁrst game of the season to Emory, the
Washington and Lee women’s soccer team has come back
strong, winning their last four games and outscoring their
opponents 21-2.

The Generals added three of the four to the win column
this week, defeating the Randolph Macon Women’s Col-
lege, Virginia Wesleyan, and Hollins. W&L’s record now

stands at 4-1, 3-0 ODAC.

The Generals dominated RMWC 4-1 on Sunday, stay-
ing on attack for most of the game. The Generals scored
ﬁrst, in the ﬁrst two minutes of the game, when freshman
Ruth-Hill Yielding intercepted a goal kick and chipped the
ball into the goal. Other goals were scored by junior cap-
tain Shana Levine, freshman Jenny Thomas, and sopho-
more Kate Bidwell.

The Generals outshot the Wildcats by an overwhelm-
ing 35-1 en route to the victory.

“We’re right on track for the second full week of our

season,” head coach Jan Hathom said. “We’re in better
shape, we’re learning each other’s game styles, and gain-
ing conﬁdence. The game is the best teacher.”

Saturday’s game against Virginia Wesleyan stayed very
even through the ﬁrst half. Both teams had some good
Scoring chances, but neither team could ﬁnish the job.

“I think we were overly excited, and just peaked too
early,” Hathom said. “It took the first half to ﬁgure out
how to get in the offensive mode.” v

Get into it they did. The Generals came out strong after
the break, going up 2-0 within the ﬁrst ﬁve minutes of the

half from two goals scored by junior Liz Olson and Levine}
W&L outshot the Blue Marlins 14-6. Senior goal’ l
Stephanie McKnight recorded the shutout. l

The Generals also defeated Hollins on Thursday by thei
overwhelming score of 8- 1. 

“You’re not going to go wrong with 16 returning playl_
ers, most of whom are in the sophomore and junior classes]!
Hathom surmised. “lt’s all there for the taking.” 

W&L has three more games this week, including Eastern’
Mennoiiite on Wednesday, NC Wesleyan on Saturday, and
Methodist on Sunday. All three contests are on the road. A

I
I
H
I
I
1

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

This time the win and the great comeback were in
their hands.

The W&L football team fell to Guilford on Saturday
by only 22-20. Trailing by ﬁve with 4:1 1 leﬁ in the game
junior tailback Marc Watson scored on a 19-yard run to
put the Generals up 20-19.

The failed two-point conversion gave the Quak-
ers the one last breath they needed. They took ad-
vantage of the opportunity by putting together an

1 1-play, 67-yard drive that ended with the game win-
ning field goal.

Guilford was first on the scoreboard with a two-yard
run from their freshman quarterback. The Quakers also
failed to score on the two point conversion.

With 1:07 left in the quarter Guilford repeated the
two-yard quarterback run to 12-0. Once again, the two-
point conversion failed.

“The ﬁrst half was the worst that the offense has
ever played,” said Watson. “We weren’t on the same
page at all.”

The second half brought out a more poised and col-
lected W&L team. They kicked off their comeback in
the third quarter when senior quarterback Christian
Batcheller found freshman tight end Davis White in the
end zone for the 23-yard score.

Guilford got in close again and scored on the one-
yard run. The Generals would answer back with an-
other hit from Batcheller. The score then remained 19-
14 until Watson scored on the run to put the Generals

21 seconds too many

up.
Watson led the offense for W&L on Saturday with
1 14 rushing yards on 26 carries. He caught three passes
for 24 yards and scored two touch downs. Watson also
tallied 64 yards on kickoff returns to end up with 202 all-
purpose yards on the day.

Batcheller completed 9 passes of his 20 attempts for
129 yards and two touchdowns.

Defensively, the Generals were led by junior linebacker
Jayson Lipsey with 14 tackles and a fumble recovery. The
defense as a whole played a stellar four quarters. W&L
caused four turnovers, two of which came in the Gener-
als’ red zone.

“The defense gave us so many opportunities that we
didn’t capitalize on until the second half,” said Watson.

Another factor working the Generals’ favor was the
performance of their offensive line. Still without start-
ing center Matt Seals for most of the game, the offen-
sive line of junior John Sensing, junior Colin Fitzgibbons,
sophomore Mike Hodge, and senior Warren Hedges
along with senior fullback Scott Moses paved the way
for the improvement in the offensive performance in the
second half.

Even though the ﬁnal score ended in the Quakers’
favor, the Generals are only looking ahead. W&L was
able to greatly improve play in the second half and the
defense was strong throughout the game.

“We’re putting these ﬁrst two losses behind us,” said
Watson, “because if you don’t, it’ 11 ruin your whole sea-
son. If we can stay consistent, there’s no reason we can’t
be 8-2 this season.”

The Generals face Centre College next Saturday at 1:00
at home.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Down and out: Junior Marc Watson stumbles to the ground on Saturday against Guilford. . _

 Volleyball sweepin’ up ODAC

4

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee volleyball team started up
yet another run on ODAC competition with wins over
Hollins (15-7, 15-5, 15-8) and Lynchburg (15-13, 15-15-8,
15-9) this week.

Saturday, the Generals were led by sophomre middle
blocker Lindsay Ruckert with 14 kills, 14 digs, and three
aces. Junior Katherine Kline led the band of W&L setters
with 16 assists and sophomore Lizzy Swan tallied 14.

This win brings the Generals to a record of 5-1 (2-0
ODAC) and extends their ODAC winning streak to 15 dat-
ing back to the 1997 season.

W&L faced Lynchburg on Wednesday in a match that
was predicted to be their toughest in the conference. It
was an easy test to pass.

Senior Nancy Reinhart paced the Generals with 12 kills
and 16 digs. Lindsay Ruckert also scored 12 kills and had
11 digs on the match. Katherine Kline once again led the
setters with 19 assists.

“Lynchburg deﬁnitely came out strong,” said Ruckert.
“After the loss to Catholic in the ﬁnals of the Invitational
we needed to get our game back together.”

The Generals did just that by spending the preceding
days in practices speciﬁcally targeted at preparing them
for Lynchburg. “We familiarized ourselves with their de-
fense. Against them we knew to aim for the deep left cor-
ner and right at their setter.”

The Generals are still experimenting with their line up and
have not yet committed to any one group of starting six.

“We’re shifting the line ups around from day to day.
The Maryville tournament this weekend will be a good test
to see what we’re gonna go with,” said Kline.

W&L is not having a problem with the changing line-
ups. The team is looking focused on racking up the wins.

“It really doesn’t matter what we go with right now. We
can run the different offences because our setters are so
good,” said Ruckert.

The Generals look to extend their ODAC winning streak
and solidify their number one spot on Wednesday when
they travel to Bridgewater.

’Jackets sting
men’s soccer

X-Country
ﬁnishes first

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team lost its
ODAC opener 3-1 to Randolph Macon in a rough game
Sunday afternoon.

The Generals did get on the board first, taking a 1-0 lead
on sophomore Paul Wallace’s unassisted goal early in the
ﬁrst half Randolph Macon took control from this point on,
scoring goals in the 40th, 53rd, and 58th minutes.

The Generals had many chances to keep the game close,
but the team could not score again. Four W&L shots de-
ﬂected off of the goal posts without ﬁnding the net, and
many other shots were also close to ﬁnding their mark.
The Generals’ best chance came a few minutes after
Wallace’s goal, when sophomore Andrew Grimes hit a shot
that appeared to go in, but which the linesman ruled did
not cross the goal line.

The week was not all bad for the Generals, as they shut
out Southern Virginia college on Monday behind goals
from senior Jamie Parker, Wallace, and Grimes. W&L outshot
their opponents 24-4 and controlled possession virtually
the entire match.

“We have not played our best yet, but we should get a

‘’ lot better once everyone gets healthy,” senior Andrew

LeToumeau said.
The Generals face VMI at 4:30 at home on Wednesday.

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

The Washington and Lee cross country teams
brought home meet championships from Greensboro,
North Carolina this weekend.

The women’s team swept their meet with a perfect score
of 15, and the men’s team compiled a total of 20 points.

In a show of the team’s dominance, the Generals
ﬁnished in the top six spots in the women’s division.

Freshman Brooke Duncan led the way, taking home
the individual women’s championship with her time of
20:32. Junior Kathleen Moroney and senior Ashley
Davis took second and third with their times of 20:58
and 21 :38, respectively.

“We all felt really strong,” Davis said. “It was a fun
course, and we really pushed each other.”

The men’s team had a very strong showing as well.
Sophomore Ken Jackman took second on the men’s
side with a time of 28:29, followed by sophomore Rob
Naftel at 28:41 in the third spot. Senior Frank Steams
took fourth with his time of30:03.

Contributing to the teams’ wins was the fact that
this meet included fewer teams, ten instead of the usual
20-25 that usually compete.

The teams travel to the F rostburg State Invitational

on October 2.

    

“My body is Y2K compatible.
How about yours?”

STUDENT SPECIAL

0122 e ya
91°/12 ess
G e12/er

IN FULL

$199 PA

_ OR -
$29 PER MONT:
FOR A FULL SCHOOL YEAR!

0 AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

o 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK o OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 0 

BODY MASTERS EQUIPMENT o HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIP- 3

MENT o 22 PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT 0 PRO
SHOP o TANNING SPECIALS o LOCKERS o SHOWERS

Special ends September 31, call now 464-9060 for club tour!

1

.-I

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6

Relieves
heartburn
faster than
standard
treatment

LAST WORD  

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

Ms. America in the feminist age

By Kevin McManemin

RA VING AND DROOLING

Last week the Miss America Pag-
eant found itself a hot topic of media
buzz, marking the ﬁrst time in about 40
years that anyone has remotely cared
about the Miss America Pageant.

Apparently, Pageant organizers
wanted to relax standards to allow
women who have been divorced or
had abortions to compete. The orga-
nizers said they feared possible law-
suits under New Jersey’s tough anti-
discrimination laws, which is su-
premely ironic for two reasons:

1) Beauty paegants are founded on
the principle of discriminating against
-unattractive women.

2) When have people in New Jer-
-sey ever been concerned about fol-
lowing the laws? They don’t even
think traffic lights are legally binding.
_ Well, the new “I’m-OK-you’re-OK-
jabortion’s-A-OK” ethos didn’t sit so
well with traditionalists, who feared

that soon any crackhead with a de-
icent set of legs could be Miss America.
(And since looks only count for about
'15 percent of the fmaljudgement after
the hokey “interview” and “talent”
portions, she wouldn’t even really
need a decent set of legs. Any thrice-
divorced, cellulite-infested piece of
trailer trash who can cough up some
inane gibberish about “the children
being our future” could walk home
with the crown.)

Basically, like a fratboy debating
between buying a bottle of Bowman’s
Virginia Vodka or Absolut, it’s essen-
tially a question of value. In this post-
feminist, post-modemist, ex post facto
age, we have a hard time saying what
we as a society
value. Once upon
a time, the con-
cepts of feminine
purity and virtue
were idealized.
These days, you
ask a girl her sexual
history and she’s
likely to rattle off a
list of names longer
than the Manhat-
tan phonebook.

If taken as a
gauge of what
America values,
the Miss America
Pageant paints a
pretty pathetic pic-
ture. Apparently
we value false sin-
cerity, cheap senti-
mentality and
campy musical
numbers. The Miss
America Pageant
has been so diluted over the years that
the original, noble intentions of the
Pageant have been drowned under-
neath a sea of the cloy and‘the stupid.

Yes, I think it’s time we reverted to
a simpler era, a time when the Pageant

was about one thing and one thing‘

only: pure, unadulterated sexism.

Look, ladies, if you haven’t ﬁgured
it out already, men aren’t exactly hard
to please. We like beer, we like sex, we
like professional sports for some bi-
zarre reason. We
don’t give a damn
about “posture” or
“poise.” If two
guys are sittin’ on
a park bench, some
gorgeous long-
legged woman
sporting 36 DD’s
saunters by, trust
me, neither of
those guys are go-
ing to lean over to
the other and say
“damn, look at the
posture on her.”

I mean, for gosh
sakes, there are
even women on the
jury of the Miss
America Pageant!
I’ll grant you that,
yes, women do
have a ﬁner eye for
beauty than men,
but the female
form, like football, is something you
just need to have a penis to fully ap-
preciate. No matter how much phony
pretense you want to build around it,
the Miss America Pageant was always
at heart nothing more than a thinly

Boring movie keeps

“Eyes Wide Shut”

By Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

Death has this tendency to se-
verely cock-up the distinguished ca-
reers of ﬁlm industry legends. After
the fantastic and hilarious string of

“Z001 2 A Space Odyssey.” And the list
goes on. It’sjust a damn crying shame
it had to end on this blaring note.
“Eyes Wide Shut” is three hours of
my life I’m never going to get back. I’d
tell you what the movie was about, but
frankly I’m not quite sure myself. Ba-

movies John sically that’s
Candy made, ( j V the problem,
do you hon- “ I  ‘    W“  ’ 2' alongwiththe
estly think he '  fact that it’s
wanted to cap , » I just TOO
it off with sex?‘ enormous orgy SCene, D A M N
u W a g 0 n S oneviquick sex scenekbetjween LONG. If it
East!”? Or I K'dma"_andfC,mi5e« . ' , ~ werejust over
Chris Farley N"‘*'.tY?.f¥{'”'°"*3la,.m°StlY fa’ two hours,
ﬁnish up with maleﬂhere mlglithavébeeﬂ male it’d be a de-
“Almost He- but ' Wasn't paw"? 8,9‘-f°."ﬁ°"~ cent ﬂick. In-
mesasy Even 7 Violence: notl1ing,tl1,a2itwouldn'tl Stead, it
Raul Julia’s bejon,   I _ fumbles from
magniﬁcent ca- ‘  U59: al°°h°ig mariiuanas start to ﬁnish
reerendedwith °°Ca'ne- n  jg‘ ’ I like a drunk
“Addams Fam- "'9 skinny: 1,1/43iT5t,.al5'°‘-“Of freshman on
ily Values.” In— 5-..»“.Y3U’re bettef °ff‘{:Fe"tin9 a j the walk of
stead ofending pomq  \' shame, and
with an enig- views like a
matic bang, horrible car

they go out with a soppy flush.
Such is the case with Stanley
Kubrick’s ﬁnal opus “Eyes Wide
Shut.” Kubrick is a brilliant director,
having created some of the greatest
movies ever made, including “Full
Metal Jacket,” “Dr. Strangelove,” “The
Shining,” “Clockwork Orange” and

 

Lexington, VA 24450
Between Dominos
and the Palms

few days.

sale.

Every CD always $1
below list price even
when ordered.

Orders only take a

This is policy, not a

accident. You want to turn away but
you are mesmerized by the chaotic
beauty.

Honestly, I went to see this movie
for one reason: nudity. I am, in my
roommate’s words, a breast enthusi-
ast. I don’t read Playboy for the ar-
ticles. I enjoy nudity, and I think the

Night Owl Music Co.

24 S. Jefferson Street Open 10 a.m. ‘til 9 p.m.

464-4050

female form is one of the most
beautiful examples of nature’s

splendor. And there are plenty
of ﬁne examples in this movie.

But they come so few and far be-
tween, you are better off renting
a porno.

Of course, there are some
quality parts. The orgy sequence
takes place in this elaborate Mar-
quis de Sade phantasmagoria,
with tuxedo clad ﬁgures in Inqui-
sition cloaks and masks sur-
rounding a naked progeny of
women in semi—religious proces-
sion. Leelee Soblieski (“Joan of
Arc,” “Deep Impact”) plays a
young harlot scampering about
in her underwear. Nicole Kidman
is completely naked, Tom Cruise
is not.

However, even these cannot
save this Titanic monstrosity. I’m
sure there is some sort of deep
philosophical artistic message
that I am missing, but if] can’t
get it in three hours, I ain’t get-
ting it at all. It’s just a shame that
a great talent like Stanley Kubrick
had to offer up this steaming hunk of
monkey crap for his ﬁnal “master-

V piece.”

Let this be a fair warning to Sean
Connery. Make a quality film, and fast.
You might be next.

 

Monday — Friday
11 a.m. — 5 p.m.
Saturday

Bring this ad
in and get

$1 on

the marked
price of any .
Cl)!

veiled excuse to get hot chicks to pa-
rade around in skimpy bathing suits.

Now that women are beginning to
take the reigns of this mad runaway
horse called civilization, such piggish
behavior is no longer tolerated. Test-
osterone is gradually being phased out
of our culture. We know that while
we’re at home watching “Sports Cen-
ter,” you women are probably in the
labs trying to ﬁgure out how to per-
manently erase the Y-chromosome
from the human genetic code. And
maybe that’s for the best.

But look, women, while we’re still
here, could you at least give us this
one little thing? Could you at least
leave this last bastion of chauvinistic,
misogynistic behavior untouched?
Can we just ogle beautiful women
once a year without having to suffer
through their trite thoughts on world
peace or their pathetic attempts to belt
out old Aretha Franklin tunes?-

And another thing —just give up
now, North Dakota. l’m sony, but Texas
and California have more than a slight
edge going for the Miss America
crown. Ever wonder why the Beach
Boys never sang “I wish they all could
be North Dakota girls?” Ever been to

WANNA warns FOR  p     
Are you interesting in writing “comedy,”  withleditors ¢yerf:sn¢!;, ,1
hardly-offensive terms as “bitch”and “'I‘&A” and being generally despised on .campus‘{  Q

If the answer to any of these questions is ‘yes,
kmcmanem@wlu.edu and start writin’ today! * « 7’

North Dakota? Some of those farm gals
look heftier than the cows tl1ey’re milk-
ing. Texas’ real largest cash crop is
vapid blonde cheerleader-beauty-
queen stereotypes, and California has
so many silicone implants that real
breasts are now on the endangered
species list. Look, North Dakota,
you’re way out of your league. Just
give up.
Anyway, to return to my original
point, I think we need to return to the
original point of the Miss America Pag-
eant. All this talk about whether or not
abortion clinic frequenters can be
good role models is entirely irrelevant.
The Miss America Pageant is not
about presenting some idealized pic-
ture of womanhood. The Pageant is
not for women at all, it’s for men, and
we are brutally simplistic creatures
with one thought permanently etched
in our minds: sex. The idea that the
Miss America Pageant has any re-
deeming value at all is just one of
those amusing lies men tell, like “I love
you” or “I’ll still respect you in the
morning.”
I think I speak for men everywhere
when I say “Ifthe world was . . . oh,
crap, I’m missing ‘Sports Center.’’’

\ dandy reference guide to.

complaint letter count

<0>

In order to cut down on
the record number of com-
plaint letters 771eLasf Ward
received last year, we've de-
cided to include this handy-

help you decide whether or
not to continue reading lest
you find something offen-
sive.

insulted this week:

'——beauty queens
———New J erseans
——North Dakotans
——Bowman’s
VirginiaVodl<a
—-women
—-men

If you still insist on

kvetching, address hate mail to:
The Last Word Editor I
Circle 7
Hell

  

    

‘or ,if1you’re just liored,ge-niiailj" 

Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman in “Eyes Wide
Shut,” a disappointing coda to Stanley Kubrick’s
masterful oeuvre. (Sorry for the pretentious words,
but it sounds a lot classier than our original caption,
“Eyes Wide Shut: a piece of s%@#.”)

Waynoﬁb .7Ifor1se

C. 1368
.7 .7)7eo/ a120/.1)’1'ea[/as/

I gfomas  csafa/3, gnnfeeper

jzfayno/fa .7£2u.se 11: an £22:/oricﬁbme /oca/eafin
/£2 [earl o/Bexzhy/on, vzkyzhzh. 9Com a Keof .
anJ 77l‘ayno/fa .7{ouse oﬂers a vane/y
ofyues/suzies anJroom.r, aff a/175 priua/e 54/in
.75e[ouse 12: ma/{Izzy t/zlr/ance/ram a uar1'e(y 5/
sfops, nes/auran/.r, museums, anofseuera//.:o1'n/s
o/in/eres/, as we//as Zﬂasfzhylon anJ6ee
Q1(u‘uer.r17y am/lie vz'ty1'1u'a  .7/is/1711/e.

.501  Wath cslreel
igexinylon, 71724450
6—ma1'[' tnayn o/Ea @roc[[r1TJye. nel
&)e5.ri/e: mayno/iczfouseinn. com
Tiones (540) 463-2567
7of/ 9}-ee: 1-J77-3:5-4664
.’7ax.- (.540) 463-4153

Wfa/or creJr'/ cart/r are acce/2/etf _

REZNICK FEDDER & SILVERMAN, CPAs

RF&S is among the nation’s 25 largest public accounting firms and is actively
recruiting talented accounting students for our offices in Bethesda &
Baltimore, MD; Boston, MA; Atlanta, GA; and Charlotte, NC.

RF&S is the ﬁrm for you if 0 you enjoy the opportunity to use your abilities to
solve complex problems 0 enjoy being involved in all aspects of an
engagement including audit, tax and consulting - enjoy an open minded and
ﬂexible work environment 0 think compensation and advancement should be
determined by abilities and accomplishments

If this describes what you are looking for in a ﬁrm and a career, then RF&S
has a lot to offer you. We will be on campus Tuesday, Sept. 215‘ for an
information session in the Commerce School, and interviewing on Thursday,

Oct. 2 15‘.

For more information, please visit our Website at www.rfs.com or contact

Kirsten Kallen at:

Reznick Fedder & Silverman
4520 East West Highway, Suite 300
Bethesda, MD 20814
Fax: (301) 652-1848

We are an Equal Opportunity Employer

Jr

 

 

ﬂ

 

U112 Ring-tum {ﬂirt

WAsHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

‘‘ VOLUME 102, NO. 8

t Server crashes

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

. plague campus

Nearly constant problems with the com-
* puter network hobble W&L community

By Max Smith &
Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITERS

Frequent crashes continued to
plague the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity computing network this week,

‘ interrupting classes, erasing student

!.

assignments, and causing general
headaches for the entire W&L com-
munity.

“I want to drive a hatchet into a
computer screen,” said junior LeeAnn
Applegate, when asked about Univer-
sity computing problems.

Students and faculty across cam-

3‘ pus would probably echo that senti-

fl,

merit after multiple network crashes
and hardware problems this academic
year. Since the beginning of fall se-
mester, the University computing net-
work has not gone two full days with-
out one or more servers crashing. In
fact, the entire system failed on the

¢\ ﬁrst day of classes and prompted the

University Computing Department to
post a notice on the Internet the next
day explaining the problem.

“Much ofthe disruption is related

l to the signiﬁcant expansion in net-

work servers installed this summer,”
read the notice. “We continue to be-
lieve that this expansion, which al-
lows the greater segregation of user
groups, functions, and applications,
will enhance the reliability and qual-
ity of our networked services. . .”
Director of University Computing

1 John Stuckey said the problem lies

within the main student server, named
Jefferson, and the academic server,
named Madison. These two servers
carry the bulk of daily network traf-
ﬁc, including e-mail and ﬁle—sharing
functions. Stuckey says the problem
may be the hardware for the network,
the software used within the network,

‘ or a combination ofthe two.

Student Computing Coordinator
Dirk van Assendelft said the process
to diagnose the problem is a difﬁcult
one.

“We’re going through every little
piece, but we haven’t gotten to the
core problem yet,” van Assendelft
said. “Right now there is no silver
bullet to solve everything. We’re try-
ing to determine what the problem is
and how we can ﬁx it.”

Stuckey said both Dell, which cre-

ated the hardware for the system, and
Novell, which created the software
used by the system, have been con-
sulted about the problems. Also, Uni-
versity Computing has brought in
technical consultants and specialists
for their advice on the network’s
troubles.

Stuckey said he is conﬁdent the
system will be up and running
smoothly in a few days. Van
Assendelft agreed: “After [Friday]
morning, I hope they’ll be stable.”

Despite University Computing’s
attempts to diagnose the problem,
students and faculty continue to face
the reality ofa faulty network.

Journalism professor Claudette
Guzan Artwick canceled all of her
Television Production labs last week.
The lab depends on computers to edit
and store video clips and get up-to-
date stories from news servers on-line.
Due to missed lab time, the
Rockbridge Report, which is pro-
duced by the class and airs on Chan-
nel 2, has delayed its broadcast for a
week.

“University Computing has been
absolutely wonderful trying to re-
spond to our needs,” Artwick said.
“But I’m also concerned that we have
the technical support that we need
[in the Journalism labs] so that our
classes can be held.”

The Commerce School has also
seen its share of problems. Commerce
School Dean Larry Peppers said that
with new technologically interactive
classrooms built Over the summer,
Commerce School departments are
especially at risk when the network
crashes.

“All we do with computers is de-
pendent on the network,” said Pep-
pers, “and when the network crashes
everything grinds to a halt.”

Peppers thinks people have been
fairly patient with computing prob-
lems and is conﬁdent everything will
work out.

The Tucker Multimedia Center
digitalized its language programs over
the summer and network crashes have
plagued language classes as well.
Students had to record their language
homework on tape last week.

“Out of class preparation by stu-
dents has been interrupted,” said
TMC Director Dick Kuettner. “But

 

 

. M’/«,,.¢1«53_:‘}}'»7;*>>,’§"'7?'  »Ww~,»xe§ ». .., ~ I

 

 

‘£1 photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

MEN AND THEIR BEST FRIENDS: Three students and their dogs lounge on the Front Lawn and enjoy one of this year’s last warm days.

Theme housing offered

Gaines suites opened to students of the same majors, interests

it’s a matter of growth by the univer-
sity and I think the intentions are
good.”

Academic Computing and Network
Specialist Thomas Ahnemann said
everyone should employ ‘fault toler-
ance’ when dealing with computers.

“You should always have a fall-
back technique like using several dif-
ferent drives when making a presen-
tation,” said Ahnemann. “That way
you have the ability to survive the
problems a network will have.”

Still students hope last week’s fre-
quent crashes won’t continue.

“Frustrating is the best word to
describe the situation,” said
Applegate. “[University Computing]
knows people are upset, and are
working to ﬁx the situation, but I want
someone to ﬁnally ﬁx the problem!”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

FIRST STOP ON THE WORLD TOUR. The legendary Junior Marvin kicked off his world tour with a
concert at the Pavillion to a wild crowd and rave reviews on Friday night.

By Sara Lambert

STAFF WRITER

A suite in Gaines where only Ger-
man is spoken, or another with Chi-
nese characters on the wall could
soon be reality.

Next year Washington and Lee
University will be offering theme
suites in Gaines Hall and the Woods
Creek apartments for interested jun-
iors and seniors. The housing office
estimates four to ﬁve suites will be
unoccupied as a result of the new
sorority houses, and is offering them
to students interested in pursuing a
co-curricular living environment.

Assistant dean of students

Courtney Penn says he hopes the op-
portunity to share common interests
will "support the academic mission"
of the university. Foreign language
majors as well as students involved
in religious groups and other clubs,
including PRIDE and the Interna-
tional House, have been invited to
submit requests for theme housing.

"It's an interesting idea for Wash-
ington and Lee," said International
Club president Tom Grove. "It's some-
thing other schools have done in the
past and it'll be cool to see how it
works out here."

A meeting will be held this Thurs-
day at 6 pm in Gaines Gatehouse for
students interested in the

The Legend continues

Junior Marvin rocks the Pavillion

By Sonia Hall

STAFF WRITER

The lack of a beer garden did not
stop reggae lovers who partied from
about 9 pm until midnight in the Pa-
vilion last Friday.

Junior Marvin and friends proved
once again that conscious vibes
hold a universal language.

“I thought it was an awesome
concert,” senior Colleen Calvey
said. “And now I can say that I'm
three Bacon degrees away from Bob
Marley.”

The opening band, AUG, had en-
thusiastic members ofthe audience
grooving on stage. AUG replaced
the Brazilian band, Djambi, who were
unable to enter the US due to immi-
gration problems.

Marvin carried the crowd with
some of his own lyrics plus familiar
tunes of the legendary Bob Marley
such as “Get Up, Stand Up,” “Wait-
ing in Vain,” and “Redemption Song.”

“The spirit was high,” said senior
Cavelle Johnston, “and everyone
was interacting with the band.”

Marvin and band-members were
pleased with the crowd's reaction

throughout the evening. After the
show, fans crowded backstage to get
autographs from the entertainers.

This was Marvin’s ﬁrst U.S. ap-
pearance on his “Burnin’ Love into
the Millennium’ world tour.

administration's proposal: or with
suggestions of their own. The admin-
istration is willing to make some
physical alterations to the suites to
facilitate the learning experience. If
students would like to paint therooms
or "try something different" Penn said
the university would be supportive.
Proposals for suites are due to Dean
Penn on October 18th.

Although members of the
Women's Forum and different sorori-
ties have occupied suites in the past,
some students think the administra-
tion overestimates student reaction
to the opening of housing to lan-
guage majors and other organiza-
tions.

"I think It's a good idea but I don't
see how plausible it's going to be,"
said Gabrielle Best, "You need to get
to the heart ofthe issue, just having
theme housing is not going to make
us more diverse."

Freshman Jane Ledlie also thought
it a good idea in theory. However, she
said, "1 think it will be tough to get
juniors and seniors back on campus.
I think the only way to make it work is
through ﬁnancial need."

OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:
Beer or Herpes

(Uh: Ring-tum iﬂhi

‘ September 27, 1999

Non-Speaking Traditions

Study Abroad; Life Beyond Lex

Football comes back with ﬁrst win of season

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5
PAGE 6

 

 

 

s -'-_.s'~‘> \'n‘s'i‘c‘-‘J:

wAsH:.«2:;r<.:~r - 4.3.. 
L£x:NGrorr,vA 2. .. -

OCT 0  TQQQ

 12 ﬂing-tum MES

 

SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 !

 

Watson Fellowship meeting tonight

An informational meeting for all students interested
in the Watson Fellowship will be held tonight at 7 pm in
Northen Auditorium.

Representatives of the Watson Foundation will be
on hand to explain the goals ofthe fellowship, as well
as to answer any questions.

The Watson Fellowship, which was instituted in
1968, consists ofa $22,000 stipend which is awarded
annually to 60 students of select liberal arts colleges
around the country. Applicants may design their own
proposal, but must sustain 12 months of study abroad,
pursuing a speciﬁc individual interest. This is Wash-
ington and Lee University’s ﬁrstiyear as a participating
institution.

Any further questions may be addressed to profes-‘
sor of spanish Jeff Barnett at x8950 in Tucker Hall, or
via e—mail at barnettj@wlu.edu

W&L names new undergrad faculty

Washington and Lee University has announced the ap-
pointment of 35 new undergraduate faculty members.

Receiving tenure track positions are Scott J. Boylan, ac-
counting; Monica Capra, economics; Christopher D.
Connors, geology; Gregory Cooper, director of the Society
and Professions program; Kevin M. Crotty, classics; Nathan
S. Feldman, mathematics; Sascha Goluboff, sociology and
anthropology; Janet Ikeda-Yuba, East Asian languages; Lucas
E. Morel, politics; Rance D. Necaise, computer science; David
S. Peterson, history; Robert Stewart, psychology; and David
W. Sukow, physics and engineering.

The following persons received appointments for the 1999-
2000 school year: Bruno Blumenfeld, religion; Christopher
Camuto, English; Elizabeth H. Cox ’97, chemistry; Robert S.
Culpepper, management; Paul Friedrich, sociology/anthropol-
ogy; Jeffrey R. Hart, management; Frank Hobbs, department
of art; Thomas E. Jenkins, classics; James Alan Kendrick,
politics; Stephen J. Lucey, art; Kellie L. Maske, economics;
Michael F. McClure, English; Gerald C. Myers, music; Paul
Notaro, psychology; Bill Oliver, English; Richard R. Ruble,
economics; Sandra L. Schmidt, economics; James F. Smith,
economics; Donald J. Smyth, economics; Carl G. K Weaver,
management; Trina Welsheimer, biology; Laura Winkiel, En-
glish.

Sonoklect to feature jazz legends

Washington and Lee University's first Sonoklect con-
cert of the year opens with a concert by the jazz group,
Sphere. This all-star jazz quartet features pianist Kenny
Barron, saxophonist Gary Bartz, drummer Ben Riley and
bassist Buster Williams. The free performance takes place
in the Lenfest Center on Oct. 2 at 8 p.m.

Both Rouse and Riley were key members of Monk’s combo
in the 1960s, and the Sphere songbook was originally rife
with Monk tunes. This concert is sponsored by the
Sonoklect Festival of Modern Music. For more infonnation
please call Sonoklect director Terry Vosbein at 463-885 1.

Howard to give Shannon-Clark Lecture

Jean E. Howard, professor of English and director of
the Institute for Research on Women and Gender at C0-
lumbia University, will deliver the annual Shannon-Clark
Lecture in English at Washington and Lee University on
Thursday, Oct. 7 at 8 p.m.

The Shannon-Clark Lectures in English, established by
a gift from a Washington and Lee alumnus who wishes to
remain anonymous, honor the memories of Edgar Finley
Shannon, chairman of W&L's English department from 1914
until his death in 1938, and Harriet Mabel Fishbum Clark, a
grandmother of the donor and a woman vitally interested
in liberal education.

INTO DEBT.

 

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING

Conn: qwyv wmr Us!

@[ease support tne 5K run witﬂ ‘Ineta

Cﬁi Omega
tfianiés a[[ tfiose
who Fieljaecf coffect
yopfait yogurt [ids
[ast year.
More tﬁan $300
was raised for
Ereast cancer
researcfi.
Once again, we’re
co[[ecting [ids in
front of tlie Co-op

U d th Ar ’ -
1,,,,,RE,p‘jfym§,,,1:”’S and 7071 to raise money for C/?lSj4l and m/wf w0u[C[,
program,youcou get . .
i)rilrtef§,f)y’f,‘a‘ﬁ‘:,°,‘1‘f{S:VI:1t:1naL tﬁe 91/luscufar Qystropﬂy /lssociation. appreciate any A
Each year you serve ,
onactivedutyreduces _ C07’ltl7’LT/£e6[ STxL}7}907"t
yqurindebtedness_by0ne~ Saturcfay, Octolier Zncf, starting at 11 ,
th1rd°r31»5°.°vWh1Ch' . . during our current
. . €V€r3m°“"t1Sgreat€“ am in front of (Doremiis gymnasium
up t0"l§l1S(§ to Perkins Loans,Stafford Loans, ’ Ca?/"J9/n dgélin-Vt
andcertain otherfederallyinsuredloans,which are not _ /i I /6[_
Indeffilnldtdebtreliefisjustoneofthemanybeneﬁts Entrance fee of $52  ticﬁets and t" t l5 te/V1/l e
you ll earnfrom theA5:rC:i:.8::l;:purArmyRecruiter. Srts (M/ed-nesd-ay) T/iursd-ay and» $.17; disease. g
. Octoﬁer is fBreast,_Cancer
AnMv.BEAvV|£,(g,,,);gI,i-‘cAN 3:? Jay outside t/ie C0-Op and tﬁe (D-ifafﬂ Awareness {Month
is
.1.

‘M2 have the Foresight to set goals and the determination to meet them. You have the creative spirit to take your own ~

ideas, implement them and make them work. You've got what it takes to head to the top with a rewarding career in retail.

Hecht's, a division at The May Department Stores Company, has a place For you.

Hecht's invites you to_explore the opportunities in our Executive Training Program. Show us your style, your passion tor
excellence, and we'll show you an exciting career.

W//new meow» «'4» rv0Torvz7_  7/T3 

0 Buying
0 Corporate Finance

Come and see us at the University Center Room T09 on Tuesday, October 5th, 6 p.m. - 7 p.m.

FOOD, FUN AND MORE!
COME CASUAL!

TIIF. \l \\ |)F,l'\ll'I‘\1l'I\'l' ."l'(lRl*.\‘ I H\ll'\\\

_ , _ ,_ .
tgggr .J;:p3,rt_Jm,x),r Cr",{jlCr\v;_j.r

To Find out more about opportunities at Hecht's, visit www.maycompany.com

 

r 0 2 ﬁling-tmn lﬂhi
1 SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 

. A yearly lament to the non-Speaking Tradition

there with Late-Nite. There are people that l’ve never been
fonnally introduced to, but because we’ve always said hi to

PAGE 3

 

Usually this tirade comes later in the year, when the Washing- you isn’t a matter of making conversation with them or telling
ton and Lee community becomes jaded and bored by everything them off It’s acknowledging the other person’s presence. It’s

orientation, or maybe people are simple forgetful. There was
a time when a committee of students could punish you for

 

we supposedly hold dear. Unfortimately,
it needs to be said now: SPEAK!

For those of you not “in the know,” 
there’s this little thing that good ol’ Gen- '‘ ~.,__
eral Lee started here when he was presi— ‘ “"‘
dent. Known as the “Speaking Tradi-

  

tion,” it makes clear that this is not just a college but a community A

of civility in which we acknowledge each other. We say hello
when we pass each other on the grounds, intown, wherever.

It seems that someone declared a moratorium on the speaking
tradition and didn’t tell me. Saying hello to the people passing by

Dieting causes
befuddlement

One of the greatest manifestations of adolescent hypoc-
risy can be best illustrated through observing our reaction to
food and its respective consumption.

On average, most teenage girls watch their weight more
religiously than they watch “Friends”. (Okay, enough. I can
already hear all you “secure in body image” types vehe-
mently protesting. On average, being the operative phrase.)
And yet, our self-proclairned fear of the Freshman 15 yields
the epitome of self contradiction. For example, there are al-
ways those

   

who roll up to Q-

McDona1d’s Northern Exposure
and order a L A3 - - 7

#5 with the g I Kns Pollma 03
works and a

. Diet Coke. This confounds me. We are more or less saying,

“I’ll have an order of lard on a roll, a side of bacon fat, and
pork grease for dessert.” And then I suppose the Diet Coke
represents some weak consolation, a perverted reassurance
that hey, I may not be poster girl for model dietary habits, but,
as depicted by my Diet Coke, I am maintaining a modicum of
health. The only assumption I can draw from said observa-
tions is that we girls diet merely to identify ourselves as
members of the female race. (Otherwise, all we have is our
addiction to shopping and Double Mint gum).

Regardless, even more amusing and unduly hypocritical
is our love/hate relationship with the Great American Institu-
tion: Beer. On the one hand: “Yeah, I’m going to the D-hall to
get a salad, cup o’ water, and maybe a whole wheat bread
crumb.” On the other hand: “Dude, you want a beer, dripping

I with less than health conducive substances and a triple digit

caloric content?” “Hmmm...okay, I’m D.”

My sister once said to me, “If you’re gonna be obese, you
might as well go the whole nine and be really obese. Relish in
the fact that you can eat what you want.” And to those girls
who fall into the “Don’t-you-hate-me-I-can-eat—whatever-l-

" want-and-never-gain-wait” genre, it’ 11 catch up to you. (Edi-
torial comment: “Genre” is the most pretentious sounding

word in the world, second only to “cliche.” End editorial
comment.) Regardless. I personally feel there’s no diet like
coffee and cigarettes. All four food groups may not be wholly
represented, but if you don’t get your National Nutritional
Quota (who makes up these terms?) then at least you can
look profound and poetic, hit up The Ruse, and spew in-
sightful comments about Allen Ginsberg or something. Can
you same the same for chicken fingers?

Thus , I marvel at the great folly of our adolescent duality,
our desire to run with the YM subscribers and pour Nutra
Sweet into our tea, (tea: both speeds up your metabolism and
curbs your appetite) in conﬂict with our ravenous craving for
french fries, beer, and adolescent conformity.

Ellie ‘ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&I.ife Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor

COP)’ Editor Heather McDonald
Photo Editor Emiiy games
Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin

Online Editor Ali soydan

Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for’content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
‘Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu. edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

, Coffee Talk
 Heather McDonald or

a

not that hard. I find it incredibly insulting
when I make eye-contact with a fellow stu-
dent or even a professor, and I say “Hello!”
and the other person simply looks away
and keeps walking. Why is it so difficult to
muster “Hello,” “Hi,” even a “whussup?”
We go to a very small school, and we just about all know each
other anyway. People continually gripe about the loss of tradi-
tion at W&L, how we’re changing too fast... yet these are
the same people who can’t seem to speak!

This was one of my favorite things about W&L, right up

each other, we know the other person. I personally like know-
ing the people that are on campus with me. That gives me a
sense of security unparalleled at any other school. In light
of the fear that has pervaded the campus recently because
of the assault of a student two weeks ago, the speaking tradition
can overcome some of the distrust. Picture this: you’re walking
out at night to an academic building. Who do you feel more
comfortable around—the person who returns your greeting so
that you know they are of the W&L community, or the persoh
who scuttles by without acknowledging you?

Maybe we didn’t emphasize it enough during freshman

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Phi writer has his
‘eyes wide shut’

Dear Editor,

The Ring—Tum Phi has never been
expected to keep our somewhat de-
tached campus informed of contem-
porary artistic trends; in fact, it’s a
miracle if you can manage to spell
your headlines correctly. But your
publication of Brian Prisco’s latest
ill-conceived attempt at a film review
is downright offensive.

“Eyes Wide Shut” stands easily
among Stanley Kubrick’s finest ac-
complishments. His dreamlike film

depicts a man overcome with anger
and confusion, coaxed into a world
he can’t understand, accept, or re-
sist. The cinematography, painted
like a canvas of tempting natural
lights and mysterious blue urban
hues, plays the perfect background
to a fascinating cast of characters
unable to control their surroundings
or predict their responses. The film
makes brilliant use of real-time in-
teractions and well-placed musical
cues, as well as excellent perfor-
mances from Nicole Kidman and
Sydney Pollack as two of Dr. Bill
Harford’s (Tom Cruise) ambiguously
antagonistic counterparts.

No Brian, there aren’t that
many boobies to gawk at; I guess
you and the rest of the subscrib-
ers to People magazine can cry
about your lost seven dollars. Let
those who understand (or have
the attention span for) modern
cinema write the reviews. You
and the rest of the Phi editors
probably are “better off renting
porno”; but don’t slander the
name of one of our century’s
greatest artists simply because
you don’t have the guts to admit
you don’t understand this film.

Thanks,

Matt LaMotte - ’00 -

Wanna write for The
Ring-- fum P/1/?

Come to the Editorial Board meeting - Tuesday 7pm
University Center room 208

TALKback...

“Um...lwent grocery shopping.”
-Warren Meehan ’00

“I was selling drinks. It was quite snappy-
you felt like dancing and moving around,

a not
‘l.III<|!||‘
nu mm 

‘ :“.‘.:‘.  in ‘ii
I l 1‘ I l\| III In in “mi II‘
II :

mu. mu: I15“ "viii '
3 iiiiii ' iii{I{.'§§:'i'\\ \‘\:Hi‘ |

the music was THAT good.”
-Aditya Chandraghatgi ’03

“I had some good, solid Jamaican fun.”
-Cavelle Johnston ’00

not wearing a coat-and-tie, or keeping up the speaking tradi-
tion. That’s not quite right in my book, but it sure kept the
speaking tradition alive. You may not like a lot of things
about W&L, but simply saying hello should not be your
main point of contention with the school.

There is only one way that speaking tradition will con-
tinue, no matter how many editorials we write about it. Every-
one must try to continue to speak. For those of you who
already speak, don’t get discouraged; for those of you who
seem to have forgotten about the speaking tradition, it’s time
to remember. Speak.

No, Wal-mart
doesn’t count  

Sitting in my room late last Thursday afternoon, I
pondered means of procrastination. After cleaning my
room (including alphabetizing my CD collection), paint-
ing my fingernails (and, what the heck, toenails too),
and emailing my friends from home (all three of them), I
was left with but one innate and reasonable impulse: Go
shopping! No,
not Wal-Mart
shopping, but
f u ii d a m e n ta 1
shopping,‘ the
sort that takes
place in the climate controlled haven of a sprawling mall.
The sort where one communes with greasy Chinese at
food courts, pushy salesgirls on commission and the
soothing sound of printing receipts.

This is an appalling deficiency in Lexington. One can
only have so many pieces ofhandmade pottery or Civil
War memorabilia in a dorm room. How can it be that this
college town is lacking in the most basic of collegiate
establishments. In other words, no Gap, no Abercrombie,
no Aeropostale, no Limited, no J. Crew, no American
Eagle, no Old Navy, no Borders, no Barnes & Noble, no
Wiz, no Strawberries, no Body Shop...you get the idea.
In fact Lexington “Business District” doesn’t even sup-
port a Starbucks.

According to one anonymous freshman, “shopping
here sucks.” The closest we come to civilization is...ta
da...Roanoke. Yeah, no kidding. Can’t wait to find that
homecoming dress. Actually, it is gangegonomic disad-
vantage to the town that with so many well-off stu-
dents there are so few places to shop.

I’m not just talking about the functional problems
with shopping in Lexington, however. Malls, or for that
matter any national chain store, bring us back in con-
tact with real life. Shopping is a cultural experience.
Whether it’s thumbing through a rack of pants to ﬁnd
your size or browsing the shelves of books and stop-
ping for a cappuccino, the satisfaction of being among
material items can be as refreshing as returning to na-
ture after some time in the city.

I think it all stems form when we were children and
we would return home with our assorted packages and,
if you were like me, line up our acquisitions and look
proudly on them as reflections of our choices and indi-
viduality. I always had to wear a new outfit to school
the next day or listen to a new CD over and over. I may
question the desirability ofa society so finnly rooted in
commercialism, but I do not question its veracity. Now,
when our identity is so defined by our style, we have
no outlets to which to turn.

My conclusion, dear readers, is as superficial as it is
true: Both Lexington and W&L students would benefit
from an invasion of mainstream commercial stores.

Heaven Forf end
Sara Lambert ’05

 

 

 

‘uote of the Week:

{I  
Was Naked Girl’ 3
nakedness welcome
at Chi Psi?

— Curious senior guy

J}

What do you think about the
n Junior Marvin concert?

 ‘:.;.
in I 
‘V  Hal

“I hadndinner with the band. It was
awesome and the band was friendly.”
-Mina Oh ’02

 

 

@112 iﬂing-Gum iﬂhi ;,

W& IFE

PAGE 4

SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

W&L in rearview mirror: experience life abroad

By Sarah Sturtz

STAFF WRITER

The Eiffel Tower looms taller than
the Colonnade, the mahogany dining
halls at Oxford are older than those in
Evans Dining Hall and the German beer
bears little resemblance to Natty Light.

Experiences such as these can be-
come reality for many students by tak-
ing advantage of the myriad of study
abroad programs of-
fered through Wash-
ington and Lee Uni-
versity. The Office of
International Educa-
tion provides stu-
dents with the oppor-
tunity to study in a
variety of different
countries in order to
gain these and other
new perspectives.

“There are tons of
opportunities with
studying abroad,”
said senior Sara Kate
Goodwin, who spent
last spring term in
Paris. “It opens your
mind. You can learn
about different cul-
tures and see part of
the world that you haven’t seen be-
fore.”

The number of W&L students who
study abroad increases each year. There
were over 100 students who participated
in the W&L study abroad programs last
spring term and an additional 100 that

participated in programs not directly
affiliated with the University.

On Sept. 22, numerous W&L stu-
dents visited the tables at the annual
Study Abroad Fair. This allowed stu-
dents a further chance to find out
about various programs and countries
where they could study abroad.

“I want to see something new and
get out of Lexington,” sophomore
Stuart Noel said, explaining his inter-

Klingelhofer, director of International
Education, said.

According to Dr. Klingelhofer, there
is a threefold beneﬁt for students who
wish to study abroad. Students can learn
more about culture and improve their
language skills. They can also learn
subjects through foreign educational
systems and with students from all over
the world. Finally, it is an opportunity
for personal growth and for learning

    

est in studying abroad.

Sophomore Tarik Bateh said he
was looking for an “enriching experi-
ence” in either Spain or Florence.

“We encourage all students to
have an international experience while
here [at W&L],” Dr. William

photo courtesy Maggie Maher
Seniors Maggie Maher and Meghan Mazour in a town-
ship outside Cape Town, South Africa.

how to adapt to new
environments.

The subject of a
study abroad trip
does not have to be
affiliated with a
student’s major. It
could simply be an
opportunity to ex-
plore a different in-
terest.

“It depends on
what you want to get
out of the experi-
ence,” said Dr.
Klingelhofer.

Sometimes stu-
dents get more than
they bargained for
out of their experi-
ence abroad. They
are left, however,
with some great stories.

Senior Maggie Maher participated
in the Semester at Sea program and vis-
ited eleven different countries.

On a safari she woke up to find jag-
uar prints outside her tent and saw li-
ons that were only ten feet away.

Lex gets taste of Manhattan

By Emily Barnes

PHOTO EDITOR

Without the fanfare of a bustling
metropolis, a little eatery with a big
name crept into the heart of Lexington
Saturday.

Manhattan Hot Dog Company, lo-
cated at 3 West Nelson Street, offers a
selection of tortilla “International

gourmet edge. The bagels are New
York gourmet bagels; customers have
the choice of onion, plain, seeded, or
garlic flavors.

Bagel Sandwiches are “over-
stuffed” with chicken or shrimp
salad, and the selection of
“Wrapps” include spinach, herb
and garlic, and tomato basil torti-
llas. The hot dog is “Nathan’s Fa-

pepperjack cheese and roasted pep-
pers, there seems to be something
for everybody.

One local customer summed up
Monty’s eclectic mix of flavors: “It’s
not your typical wrap sandwich.”

Monty is making his selection of
beverages just as interesting and
varied as the food on the menu.

He plans on serving a selection

Wrapps” sandwiches, bagel
sandwiches, and “Nathan’s
Famous Hot Dogs.” The
menu is a change from the
food of other Lexington es-
tablishments, and that is ex-
actly what owner Frank
Monty wanted.

“That was my big thing,”
Monty said. “I didn’t want
to compete with anybody. I
wanted something different
and unique.”

If his role as restaurant

    

 
 

 , .s..-5
’C""‘ *-—--—-—-——

of fresh fruitjuices and
fruit Smoothies, as
well as giving the cus-
tomer a choice of six
protein boosters. Fruit,
sherbet and yogurt are
also on the menu.
The eatery had a
“soft opening” on Satur-
day, Monty said, in or-
der to get things running
smoothly before the
grand opening on Oct 2.
Monty is hoping to

columnist for The
Rockbridge Weekly is any
indication, Monty under-
stands good food, as well as
the need for new and exciting eating
options in Lexington. The new eatery
fills the absence for what seems to be
one of today’s trendiest food stores
— the bagel shop.

“That’s typical of any college com-
munity that there’s bagel shops, and
I’m surprised that there are none here
in Lexington,” said Monty.

The Manhattan Hot Dog Company
is much more than your typical bagel
shop, providing a mix of foods with a

mous Hot Dog” from New York, and
is served on a Soft Philadelphia
Pretzel Bun.

For those who may not be fans
of the great American dog, one of
the tortilla “International Wraps”
may hit the spot.

With unusual selections such as
the Nova Scotia, a delicious mix of
smoked salmon, asparagus and
cream cheese, and the Bourbon
Street with its blackened chicken,

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Edit;
The new restaurant in town, The Manhattan Hot Dog
Company, oflicially opened its doors on Sept. 18.

attract a crowd with a
hot—dog-eating contest
on that day.

He is searching for
five women and five men to compete.
The contestant in each group who
can eat the most hot dogs in five
minutes will win a $20 gift certiﬁcate
to the shop.

Those interested in entering the
contest should call 464-1501, and
anyone interested in some great,
unique food should stop by
Lexington’s newest culinary addi-
tion, The Manhattan Hot Dog Com-

pany.

  Are you considering theological education?
  Meet With an admissions representative from

, i*,|'i_',3II:E.&_Zf:,E.§_C

    

-I-IARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL  

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30
4:30 P.M. — 6:30 P.M.
REEVES CENTER

‘Learn about our graduate programs, including the Master of Divinity
__and the Master of Theological Studies, and about related resources
Within Harvard University’s other graduate faculties and the nine-school
Boston Theological Institute.

ALL STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS AND ALL YEARS WELCOME

For more information, contact the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid at (617) 495-5796
or consult the Harvard Divinity School website at bttp://www.}Jds.baroarc£edu

photo courtesy of Ginger Phillips

The students who participated in the W&L Spring Term study abroad program in Spain
took a break from their language studies to party the night away at the annual fair, or
Feria, in El Puerto de Santa Maria.

“We were in Beijing when the U.S.
accidentally bombed the embassy in
China,” she said of another unique ex-
perience on the trip.

There are a variety of different ways
to study abroad. A student can partici-
pate with one of the Washington and
Lee exchange programs in the U.K., Ja-
pan, China (Hong Kong), and Germany.

One can also participate in an ap-
proved study abroad program directed
by another university or private organi-
zation, directly enroll in a foreign univer-
sity or go for a summer job, internship or
volunteer opportunity abroad.

There_is also a unique experience
for W&L students called Spring Term

Abroad. This is for W&L students who
go to a different country accompanied
by W&L faculty members. There are
eight Spring Term Abroad programs
planned for spring 2000 varying from
studying the language and culture in
Spain to studying plant taxonomy in
Costa Rica.

Junior Jeff Sloan went to Spain for
the 1999 spring term. He is not a Span-
ish major but has a strong interest in
Spain and saw the trip as an opportu-
nity to further his communication skills.
He was also able to live with three dif-
ferent families during his stay. When
asked if he would recommend it to other
W&L students, he responded,

“Highly! I loved it and hope I can go
back.”

“The experience was really wonder-
ful,” said junior Sam Evans, who went
on the same trip. “I learned a lot about
my culture and myself, plus the night
life was great.” He added that study-
ing abroad is something every student
should do.

The study abroad program is open
to any student provided they have a
2.5 GPA,~although seniors must request
permission. Any interested student
should call or visit the Office of Inter-
national Education to explore his or her
areas of interest and the wide range of
study abroad possibilities available.

  
 
 
 
   
     
  
    
    
  

T 6:30 p.m.

Upcoming events

Monday, September 27“

12:00 p.'m. Volunteer Fair for Rockbridge Area
Service Agency. Stemmons Plaza. *

Junior Leadership Council’s Class of ‘
2001 Party. Liberty Hall Ruins. I ‘

   

j I gree applications for June 2000
L _ j ‘  V i » I due: University Registrar's Office,
7:00 pm. WatsonFellowship informational  '   Reidﬂau
meeting. Northen Auditoriuinw . ' .1 V‘ I ‘ -
I _. _ A, ~ I  ' dturdoy, October’ 2
8:00 Pm’ C°n°°“G“ﬂdf“Chamb°"M“s‘9‘S°°i' L -00*a.m.” ”:.Tennis (M). Southeast Regional.
« etyofLii1colnCenter.”Ke1ler*. i  I j 3 m.SityC0um_
Thea'I°= Lenfest Cemer‘ Sonoklectz Sonoklect. “Sphere.”
’ . -. , , . ~  » ‘ , _Ke1ler Theatre, Lenfest Center.
Tuesday, September 28 I   A. 10:00 P_m_ 5 g0,spmy_KA.

. 00 am.

4  (M). W&L vs. Sweet‘Bria.r.
 «Libeny.Hai1 Field. L

 oheri--S1

1 ,}}Sunday,i October 3
’ Tennis (M). Southeast Regional.
L «Varsity Courts.

     
   

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

 

PAGE 5

S

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlri

PORTS

SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 ‘?

Generals pull

rank on Colonels
Football Grabs First Win 23-17

Field Hockey
has goals

By Steele Cooper

SPOR Ts EDITOR

By Frances Groberg

SR0RI:sEDIroR

“I felt like a man among boys out there,” said senior
Michael Moore.

That was the tone from the driven and aggressive W&L
football team as they defeated the Colonels of Centre Col-
lege on Saturday.

The Generals once again found themselves down early
in the game. Centre picked up a 10-0 lead with 6:54 in the
ﬁrst half. W&L cut into that lead with :19 remaining when
senior quarterback Christian Batcheller hit freshman tight
end Davis White with the four-yard pass.

On their first drive of the second half W&L jumped into
the lead on the four-yard run from junior running back
Marc Watson. Watson opened up that opportunity with "
his 53-yard run to open the series.

W&L’s ﬁnal score to seal the victory came when
Batcheller scampered into the endzone from 1 1 yards out.
That made the ﬁnal score 23-17.

Watson once again led the offense for the Generals. He
posted 1 18 yards on 21 carries and had one touchdown on
the day.

The Generals’ defense had an outstanding day on Sat-
urday racking up a school record seven sacks. Moore tal-
lied four of those himself.

“After the last two games we really had something to
prove,” Moore said. “The defensive backs covered their
receivers and the linebackers made their tackles. Their of-
fensive line was bigger than we were but we were so much
quicker. They couldn’t handle our stunt plays.”

“The defense stepped up and came through when we
needed them to. Now that we’ve got momentum off of this
win we are going to make it carry over in our next games,”
said White.

The Generals felt that the Colonels were a tougher team
than the last two opponents they had faced. “They were
more aggressive than Guilford and Stronger than both
Guilford and Hopkins. They just didn’t want it as bad as
we did,” said Watson.

The game was a virtual must-win situation for the Gen-
erals due to the fact it was considered a conference game.
“We had to win this if we wanted to get to where we wanted
to go,” said Watson.

The Generals will try to continue to ride the momentum
they gained from Saturday’s win when they travel to

Macon next Saturday.

Washingtori and Lee is undergoing some/heavy
changes in the wake of its 250th year. Sorority housing',ja

parking garage, and a new student center are allin the
plan as the school charges into the next century. Amidst "

all of this is a group ofwomen who would like to add their. , I

names under the list of “things tocome.” The club ﬁeld “

hockey team is looking to be elevated to varsity 
After speaking with Athletic Director Mike Walsh

and submitting a proposal for varsity status last spring,

, the team was told that in order to be added to thelist 9
,of varsity sports at W&L, the ﬁeld hockey program f
. ‘would have to show that it could sustain student in- ,

ggterest. For this club season, that has meant increasing 8
 the number of games the team played and seeking out

 the coaching skills of Laurie Stagnitta and third. year

~,,_j,f.j_law_,student Beth Horowicz. _ V ‘ , I

 Helping the team’s’ cause right now is the fact that"
7 ﬁeld hockey is already established as a sport within I

the ODAC. y
“We have thirteen games on our schedule, seven of

, which are against established varsity teams,” junior cap-
, tain Martha Combrooks said. “We have 22 dedicated

players this year. I have high hopes for the season.“
Walsh explains that there is a lot involved in adding
a new varsity sport to the program. In addition to stu-
dent interest, issues such as ﬁeld space, coaches’ sal-
ary, travel expenses, and uniforms must be considered.
“We don’t want to institute a new varsity ‘program and
the turn our backs on them. We want to be able to pro-
I vide the same services as we currently do for all varsity
teams,” Walsh said. ,
Field space is one of the crucial issues involving add-

.  another varsity team at W&L. 'lhe ﬁve year plan

1‘ includes an agenda thatwould addressthis problem.

: ..Redoing the current practice ﬁelds, reclaiming the base-
. A ball ﬁeld left vacant by the new stadium, and puttipg
 down an artiﬁcial turf ﬁeld with full lighting capabilities '
 are all plans for the future. I I

Walsh said that having the ﬁelds ﬁnished is not a

* f prerequisite for the ﬁeld hockey team’s elevation to var-

: sity status. “We would just have to work something else

». _ out until more ﬁeld space becomes available,” he said.

 - .A<§<.1ing ﬁeld hockey to W.&L?s vqrsitypr:9arsn.a.s2.u1s1,.;
Ashlad, Virginia to take on the Yellow Jackets of Rando1ph-  5“  ‘" ”~’ ”‘"~;*' er’: I , I ' 2 . f I 5 ’ 2 ,_ *5 "

an

t

"‘/'"  es/W old

Members of the club ﬁeld hockey team, in search of varsity” status, practice diligently.

have very positive effects for all women’s sports. Sopho-
more Courtenay Fisher had to make a tough decision about
sports when she was choosing a school. “I decided to go
to a Division-III school so that 1 could play tow varsity
sports. I was disappointed that W&L did not have a var-
sity ﬁeld hockey program, but I liked the school so much
thatl decided to come and play club.”

Other recruits may not make the same decision. “I have

met so many recruits who wanted to play both ﬁeld hockey’
I and lacrosse on the varsity level, so they wound up going

somewhere else,” senior lacrosse captain Katherine Riddle

_ said.  acknowledged that the traditional carryover.

between the two  is anfotherconsideration in the
decision to elevate‘. field hockey to varsity status.
There is no set date for the addition of ﬁeld hockey
as a varsity sport, though it has been discussed exten-
sigely within tlip University Athletic Committee.
Corribrooksi had grispeiis an , eiiteam. would be varsity

. by the fall of 2000, but the  remains unsure.

“It’s not an issueabout whether the team will even-
tually go varsity, but when we can feasibly do it,” Walsh

’ Pointed 0’-.11;/' 82,5] 4

e clubﬁeld  take on Ferrum Col-

: .*¢8s:9sT"¢s4aésP thslaw a*4=°°~

Volleyball wins Invitational,
defeats Bridgewater

By Steele Cooper

SROR TS EDITOR

The W&L volleyball team contin-
ued their streak of dominating play
this week. Over the weekend, the Gen-
erals took the title at the Maryville In-
vitational. They also won their only
ODAC match of the week against
Bridgewater(l5-12, 15-12, 15-12).

During the opening round of the
Invitational in Maryville, Tennessee
on Friday the Generals fell to Savan-
nah College of Art and Design in a
close 5 game match (9-15, 15-9, 16-14,
11-15,21-23).

Senior Nancy Reinhart tallied 12
kills and dug 26 of SCAD’s attacks.
She was joined by sophomore Lind-
say Ruckert who had 17 kills and 14
digs.

“It was a really good game,” said
All-Toumament Team Member sopho-

more Lee Charbonet. “We were so
deep in the rally scored ﬁfth game that
it really could have gone either way.”

Savannah College of Art and De-
sign have been regulars at the NCAA
tournament in the past several years.
“Two or three years ago SCAD killed
us. We’ve deﬁnitely improved our
game,” said Charbonet.

The Generals upped their record to
7-2 later on Friday with a win over East-
ern Mennonite (16-18, 15-8, 15-10, 10-
15, 15-10).

Ruckert led the Generals with 16 kills
and 18 digs. Reinhart tallied 10 kills and
12 digs. Junior Katherine Kline and Jun-
ior Pam Saulsbury led the setters with
31 and21 assists, respectively.

Saturday the Generals defeated
both Westminster College (15-13, 7-15,
15-6, 16-14) and Maryville College (7-
15, 15-9, 15-9, 15-9) to seal the touma-
ment win.

Charbonet and Ruckert were named
to the All-Toumament Team. “We’re
off to a good start and getting our-
selves together as a team. This was a
big win for us,” said Charbonet.

Wednesday, W&L won their third
straight ODAC match and kept their
conference record untamished. The
Generals defeated Bridgewater (15-12,
15- 12. 15-12). W&L has yet to drop a
game to any ODAC opponent and
their ODAC streak is up to 16 dating
back to 1997.

The Generals, overwhelming favor-
ites to repeat as ODAC champions, will
receive an automatic bid to the NCAA
tournament if they do win ODAC’s.
“We’re taking this one step at a time,”
said Charbonet. “We’re concentrating
on winning ODAC’s but we can see
the national tournament in our sights.”

The Generals take on Randolph-
Macon Women’s College on Tuesday

Bad luck hits
men’s soccer

in the Warner Center.

Women’s soccer
1-3 for week

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team had a
frustrating week, losing to VMI and Virginia Wesleyan.

The Generals traveled to Virginia Wesleyan looking for
their first ODAC victory, but returned home with another loss.

The Marlins scored ﬁrst on a penalty kick, but senior
Jamie Parker quickly evened the score on a powerful shot
only minutes later. The Marlins added another goal early
in the second half, but the Generals again tied the game on
a Parker penalty kick.

The match appeared headed to overtime, but with less
than ten minutes left, the Generals had some bad luck. As
W&L defense tried to clear the ball, the referee got in the
way, allowing Virginia Wesleyan to score. “It was one of the
greatest shots I have ever seen” senior Scott LeToumeau
said. The Marlins added another goal before the game ended.

Despite the loss, the Generals feel as if they played well
against ODAC power Virginia Wesleyan. “We played well
the whole game, and just got a little unlucky at the end,”
sophomore Andrew Grimes said.

W&L also suffered a tough loss on Wednesday against
VMI 1-0, even though the Generals outshot the Cadets 13-9.

The team plays at home against Hampden-Sydney on
Wednesday starting at 4:00.

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team suf-
fered a snag in their season this week, losing two out of
three games.

The Generals had problems on Sunday against Meth-
odist, losing 4-1 despite outshooting their opponents 27-
7. Their difﬁculties seemed to revolve around Methodist
player Jill Catron, who was able to score a hat trick.

Sophomore Drew Powers scored the only goal of the game
for W&L at 84: 10, drawing the Generals within a 3-1 score.

The team’s weekend problems started with their loss to
North Carolina Wesleyan by a score of 3-0. The Battlin‘ Bish-
ops opened the scoring just 4:28 into the match. Though the
Generals stayed within one goal going into halftime, thanks
to 1 1 saves from senior goalie Stephanie McKnight, the
Bishops Scored twice during the second half. The Bishops
outshot the Generals 20-4.

The bright spot for the team this week came on Wednes-
day, when W&L defeated Eastern Mennonite 2-0. Senior
defender Ansley Miller scored at the 43:40 mark, andjun—
ior Margaret-Hunter Turner clinched the win with her goal
at64:30.

The Generals return to action on September 30. against
Sweet Briar College. Gametime is set for 4:30 in Lexington.

'71

\l  .
‘My body is Y2K compatible...
How about yours?”

Omega
f/71'/12 es:
6 e12/er

STUDENT SPECIAL

) IN FULL

$199 PA

_ OR _
$29 PER MONTH
FOR A FULL SCHOOL YEAR!

0 AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

o 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK o OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK o

BODY MASTERS EQUIPMENT o HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIP-

MENT o 22 PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT o PRO
SHOP o TANNING SPECIALS o LOCKERS o SHOWERS

Special ends September 31, call now 464-9060 for club tour!

 

aluminum cans

LAST WORD

5 ‘'5
en
§3E;-
PAGE 6 E 2
SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 g
At’l 1W  
By Kevin MCManemin Huh. . I i _ Art) where we’d spend the day star- percent (don’t.make me do the math) Johnston (of the woefully unfunny
EGGNOG ENTHUSIAST Maybe Glllllanl has apolnt. mg at a painting of a big blue square of the population had access to mus1- sitcom Third Rock from the Sun )not < 0 >

I know what a bunch ofqyoung
hipsters we all are at W&L and how
deeply we’re concerned about the art
world and its. . . no, I’m sorry, Ithought
I could deliver that with a straight face
but it didn’t work. I mean come on,
most of you people’s idea of fine art is
the bear painting on the Kodiak dip
can.

But let us imagine for a moment that
we are artistically “hip” and “with it”
enough that when we hear the words
“MOMA” or “Dada” we think of the
art world and not our parents.

It might concern us, then, that
Mayor Rudy “Kingpin” Giuliani tl1reat-
ened to withhold $7 million in funding
from the Brooklyn Museum of Art in
one of the worst cases of censorship
since last week at the Phi ofﬁce when
the executive editor wouldn’t even let
me say “<censored>” in my column.

The artist under ﬁre this time is up-
and-coming British painter Chris Oﬁli,
winner of last year’s prestigious
Turner Grant of £20,000 (that’s, like,
$35,000 in real money). As noted by
the BBC news online, “Giuliani is par-
ticularly offended by Chris Oﬁli’s
painting The Holy Virgin Mary, which
incorporates his trademark elephant
dung.”

Now I’m not offended by religious
mockery; in fact, I think we need much
more of it in our society. I am, how-
ever, offended by the phrase “his
trademark elephant dung.” HIS
TRADEMARK ELEPHANT DUNG!

First of all, what kind of bizarre
trademark ofﬁce would you have to
go to to patent that? And second of
all, what are the possible aesthetically
pleasing aspects of elephant dung?
Painting with animal feces is like mak-
ing music with bagpipes —— it’sjust a
bad idea, OK?

The most truly offensive thing
about this exhibit, though, is the fact
that it’s not even remotely original. The
religious imagery + biological waste =
easy shock value equation has been
well-mined in the art world, memora-
bly with Andres Serrano’s “Piss
Christ,” a cruciﬁx suspended in a jar
of urine.

Hey, does anybody remember the
days when art used to be about mak-
ing objects of timeless beauty, rather
than just relieving yourself in a jar?
But then again, what do I know? My
only experience with the art world was
through the yearly compulsory sub-
urban-Jersey-kid school ﬁeld trips to
MOMA, (that stands for, of course,
Mammothly Overpriced Mediocre

and trying to ﬁgure out why in the
name of holy hell that canvas is now
worth more than a Ferrari.

I think we’ve all looked at modern
art at one time or an-
other and said the
same four words: “I
could do this” (or ‘
one of its popular
variations, “my two-
year-old nephew
could do this” or “my
retarded Golden Re-
triever could do
this”). And that, es-
sentially, is the prob-
lem with the art
world. It’s just too
easy for people to
follow their dreams
these days.

It’s not just the vi-
sual arts that are suf-
fering. Thanks to
word processors,
writing the Great American Novel no
longer requires years of dedication and
hard work. Anyone with a couple of
weekends to spare could churn out an-
other sappy, ill-plotted Oprah’s Book
Club special and ﬁnd their way to the
top of the NY Times Bestseller list.

In Bach’s day, maybe 1/2 ofl/3 of]

Never trust your mother

By Geoff White

THIRD YEAR FRESHMAN

pass, you can’t come in the state. Now
get in the bath.” Amazing!
“What if you come by plane?”

Ok, let’s get this straight. Since I’m
going to be making fun of each and
every one of you throughout the year,
(Editor ’s note: not bloody likely) say-
ing things like this year’s freshman are
even worse looking than last year’s,
etc., I ﬁgured it would only be fair to
share a story with you. A very, very,
embarrassing story.

I was about eight years old when I
took my ﬁrst trip to Florida, the land of
sunshine and illegal aliens. A few days
before we left, my mother told me to
get in the bath because I was so ﬁlthy,
they wouldn’t even let me in the state.
“Really? They can keep you from en-
tering Florida if you’re not clean?” I
asked my dear mother.

“Yes,” she said. “They have a
clean-check at the border. If you don’t

This week we tried to
answer the age-old question:

“They won’t let you out of the air-
port if you’re not clean,” she replied.

“What if you come by boat?”

“The Coast Guard checks you
when you come in to dock,” mummy
dearest replied. Since we have yet to
master teleportation, this avenue was
not discussed. It could mean serious
enforcement problems in the future. . .

Anyway, the big day came and we
drove down to Florida, the land of sun-
shine and really smelly cities. And
since we were on the interstate, there
was a rest stop right past the state line.
Mom told me and dad to wash our
hands “just in case,” while she went
in to the welcome center. Unbe-
knownst to me, while dad and I were
preparing to face the inspection, my
kind and loving

mother was in the welcome center brib-
ing the orange juice girl behind the
counter to perform a clean check.

I came out of the bathroom, and
walked inside, went through the line,
and bravely stood at the counter while
about two dozen incredulous tourists
watched, stupefied. The young
woman my mother had spoken to, with
all formality, proceeded to make sure
my teeth were brushed, that my ﬁn-
gernails were not dirty, and that my
ears were clean, all the while ﬁling out
imaginary paperwork behind her
counter. When she was done, she said
“I guess you’re okay. Welcome to
Florida. Would you like grapefruit juice
or orange juice?”

With that out of the way, all of you
should know that if I can say some-
thing like this about myself, I can say
anything I want to about y’all. So
watch out!

0mxmh»l7i5

 

Chris Oﬁli’s “Bag of
Sh**,” posing as a work
of art.

cal training. Today, at this very mo-
ment, there are 25,433,643 idiot kids
strumming out Zeppelin tunes on their
bargain-basement Stratocasters and
dreaming unrealistic
dreams of rock
supersta_rdom.
Jimmy Page must be
rolling over in his

grave. (Editor ’s
note.‘ Jimmy Page
has technically

been dead since
1977 when the last
of his original inter-
nal organs gave
out).

Thanks to “The
Blair Witch Project,”
you can be certain
that ﬁlm festivals ev-
erywhere are about
to be deluged with
thousands of poorly
produced backyard
ﬁlms from AV club dorks and their as-
piring-actor friends. And thanks to
Multiculturalism, now we’re supposed
to like all sorts of crappy ethnic art as
well. Pardon me for not buying into
the “Latin explosion,” but Ricky Mar-
tin and that Enrique Iglesias guy suck
in any language.

Democracy is bad enough as a po-
litical system, but there’s just no way
its tenets belong in the art world. Sorry
Jefferson, but everyone is NOT cre-
ated equal. Mozart was writing sym-
phonies by the time most of his peers
were still toilet training. Art is predi-
cated on the fact that ability is rare
and talent rarer, and that genius is the
most rareriest thing of all. (Hold on, let
me check that dictionary. . .) Yes, it’s
not “fair” that some people are just
better at things than others, but if life
was “fair” then OJ would be dead,
wouldn’t he?

For me, I think the ﬁnal nail in the
cofﬁn of culture came during the ﬁve
minutes of the Emmy awards I man-
aged to catch this year. Kristen

only actually won an award, but went
on to tearfully acknowledge the writ-
ers and producers of the show as “true
geniuses.” Now, I may not be the ﬁnal
authority on what is and isn’t art, but
I can say with certainty that no one
involved in the production of the show
“Third Rock from the Sun” remotely
deserves the “genius” moniker.

Everytime we misuse the word “ge-
nius” to describe some Hollywood
hack, we take a little bit away from the
Shakespeares, Chopins and Cezannes,
the Michelangelos, Mozarts and
Miltons who actually stepped up to
the plate and hit a few out of the park
in the name of art. When our society
loses all conception of the word “ge-
nius” then art becomes meaningless,
everyone can do it and the only ones
who gain notoriety at all are those who
resort to the shock value of cheap, el-
ephant—dung slinging gimicks.

Well, I know what you’re all think-
ing at this point. You’re
thinking “Screw all this art
crap. Where the hell did
that guy get elephant
dung from, anyway?”
Good question. Accord-
ing to www.illumin.co.uk,
“Oﬁli ﬁrst began to use el-
ephant dung in his paint-
ings during a six weeks’
scholarship in Zimbabwe. ,
On his return to England
he continued to use it and
obtained supplies from
obliging animals in a cir-
cus in Berlin and in Lon-
don and Whipsnade
zoos.”

I don’t know exactly
what they mean by “oblig-
ing the animals” either. In
any case, the point is that
next time you look at a
painting and say “this
isn’t art, this is a piece of
sh* *,” remember that you
may be right on- both
counts.

Come on, people, let's get
that number up! This is just
embarrassing. We can do
better — I know we can!

insulted this week:
——modern artists
—Ricky Martin &
Enrique Iglesias
—Rudy 
—anyone involved in the
production of the show
“Third Rock ﬁom the Sun”
—democracy
—Oprah’ s book club
-‘——AV club dorks
——Jimmy Page
—bagpipe “music”

Chris Oﬁli’s “The Holy Virgin Mary.”
Funny that there could be so much
controversy over such a stupid, ugly,
utterly unremarkable painting.

CHOOSING THE RIGHT
RETIREMENT COMPANY MAKES
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.

which is more popular at
W&L — beer or herpes? ,

Both can make a strong » ‘
case:

Surprisingly low expenses
TIAA-CREF's operating costs are among
the lowest in the insurance and mutual

F or over 80 years, TL’-\A—CREF has

The other  meat Oh no been the leading retirement company
wait, dude, that’s pork. Ha ha ha ha ha

ha ha ha ha ha ha ha I said pork, yo,

IIBI‘|!BS

on America's campuses. But experience is

just one reason why so many smart fund industries.2 So more of your money

investors trust us with their ﬁnancial

Q distributed ditto that’s hilarious. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha H goes where it should _ toward ensuring

3 ha oh man I’m hungry. Anyone got any future. ere are a few morei your fumm ;t
3 freely at frat Doritos?

Q part'e_s ad paid for by your local drug council Superior strength Easy diversiﬁcation

1

l

l

With over $250 billion in assets under man- We Offer a wide Variety of expertly

agement, TIAA-CREF is the world’s largest
retirement organization — and among the

, causes many
.  embarrassing
g trips to the
 infirmary

managed investment options to help build 5
your assets. We make it simple, too, with

 yﬂ .d W0  stock, bond, money market, real estate,
c. 1866’
.7 .r/3eo/an0/.$rea£/as/

gfonras  Csafa/s, gnnfeeper

most solid. It's one of the reasons why
Momingstar says, “TIAA-CREF sets the
standard in the ﬁnancial services industry.”

and guaranteed options.

Unrivaled service

We believe that our service distinguishes

fun that night;
hurts the next
morning"

Solid, long—term
performance

us from every other retirement company.

In the most recent Dalbar survey, y
TIAA-CREF ranks tops in participation
satisfaction.3

Call today to ﬁnd out how TIAA—
CREF can help you build the ﬁnancial '

future you want and deserve.

97Q]no/ia Jfouse is anﬂzs/ozicﬁomefoca/eJ11r2 We seek out long-term opportunities that

/ﬁe fear] 0/éiexitzy/on, Uzkyzhzh. 96):» a deaf
anJ6‘rea[/‘as/, Yﬂynofia J/ouse oﬂers a uaz-ie(y
o/yues/sui/es anJrooms, aff w17£ priua/e fa/As.
.7£e fouse ts wa/[Izzy 0/11:/ance/com a oarie/y 0/
sfops, res/auran/s, museums, anJseve(-afpoin/s
ofin/eres/, as we// as Zﬂjasginy/on ant/6)ee
Q[n1'oers17y am//5e vﬂythzh 77Gﬁ7aty gns/1711/e. , A

best  your other companies, in pursuit of quick gains,

parents don’t
know about it

often miss. Though past performance can't

guarantee future results, this patient philos-

_. .-. .........a.........~_-n. ......-

ophy has proven extremely rewarding.

To ﬁnd out more — give us W
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

This week’s telephone poll question: Do
you have herpes?

100% .501 <3. 77(a/n cS/ree/ Ensuring the future . 9‘ . f
none of Bexinylm’ 09] 24450 for those who shape it. www.t1aa—cre .OI'g ‘
Y0“? 6—n1ai[‘ tnayna/1'21 @roc£5r1?Jje. ne/
9* * *  Zﬂ)e6‘si/e: ma no/iafauseinn. com
7
b - ‘Mam/mgur l’u-taalmmulus/1.0%, 6/30/99. 2$mn¢ad&Pu-élimuukamghngvng 1999; ma Llpper Analytical Serv|oes.Inc.,[.Ipper-DIrvcrors'AIAalytl¢zlDa!a,1999(quunerly).
u S I ness T5011 e: (540) 463-2567 3DALBAR.1nc.. Iailnmdca-nomunmﬂuzlbukawp For more compnuu mro.-mum, lndudlng charges and expenses, all 1 800 342-2733. ext. 5509, for CREF and TIAA Real Estate
Accoum pvupectuacs. Read them canfully before you wax or send vmney. TIAA-CREF Inamuui mi lmtltutlonal Services distributes CREF certiﬁcates and Interests In the TIAA Rul
70/] 9ree.- I —d’77—35.5—4664 ;=_..... ,i...,...._ r

8/99

margin of error: 4% gait.‘ (540) 463-4353

We/br cret/17 can/s are acce/2/ea/.

 

  

U112 ﬂing-1

  

 

  

uinram

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

4 VOLUME 102, No.9

omophobic

.incidents spur
. controversy

Radio show, campaign posters attack
homosexuals and student body president

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Twojuniors, one who campaigned
for ofﬁce on an anti-homosexual plat-
form, and another who publicly attacked
Executive Committee president Jeff
Cook, have come under ﬁre themselves.

In his WLUR radio show from 4 pm
to 6 pm Wednesday, DJ Rich Groner
made remarks which criticized Cook's
sexuality. WLUR general manager and
faculty adviser Bob de Maria received
several complaints following the show.

"I got a call. . . telling me that some
'meathead DJ’ had slammed a guy, call-
ing hirn "Jeff Crook," de Maria said. "I
was really kind of furious because
[Groner] had been on the air since his
freshman year and knew better. Unless
you have a program that involves opin-
ion, you are to keep your mouth shut
on things like that."

According students who heard the
show, Groner had an unidentiﬁed guest,
"Crook" on the show, who spoke in a
femenine voice and made disparaging
remarks about homosexuals.

When reached for comment, Cook
said that "the remarks were inappropri-
ate and offensive."

De Maria said that he met with
Groner to discuss his actions.

"He didn't show me any kind of con-
trition, and was not able to give me any
kind of explanation," de Maria said.
"That ﬂies about as well as a lead bal-
loon. Is it a sin that a guy's homosexual
or that a woman's a lesbian, or that a
person's black?"

According to de Maria, comments
like Groner‘s can lead to complaints to

the FCC, and the possible loss of their
license. Staff members of WLUR have

since recorded a public apology that
they will play repeatedly over the air
throughout the next week. In addition,
Groner has been suspended from hav-
ing a radio show for the remainder of
the year, and met with Dean of Students
David Howison.

"Bascially I'm waiting to see what
he does," Howison said. "I felt that the
action taken by the radio station was
the appropriate action, and in talking
to the student I sensed that he had
learned a valuable lesson."

The other incident involved John
Herbert, who ran unopposed in his
successful race for junior class presi-
dent. Herbert distributed posters which
said "I'll be straight with you." When
questioned, Herbert admitted to run-
ning his campaign on an anti-homo-
sexual platform.

In response to the posters, junior
Meisha Jackson has started a petition
in protest.

"My purpose with the petition,"is
not necessarily to get him out of ofﬁce,
but rather to raise awareness that this
is who the president of the Class of 2001
is," Jackson said.

‘'1 think that such blatant intolerance
is completely unnecessary, and the time
for that is past. Basically I want to get
the point across to Mr. Herbert that the
W&L student body does not share his
sentiments."

Jackson began her petition this

LExINGToN, VIRGINIA 24450

“IF I HAD A HAMMER.” Freshman Stephen Koss works on a Project Horizon house Saturday.

weekend, and will distribute it at meet-
ings of the Women's'Forum, the Mi-
nority Student Association, the Inter-
national Club and several sororities
early this week. In addition, she will be
in front of the Co-op much of the week
soliciting signatures.

The incidents come on the heels of
another at the Kappa Sigma fraternity,

SEE ‘CONFLICT’ ON PAGE 2

SK charity race a success

More than 60 student runners hit the streets in Theta/KA run

By Mike Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

The streets of Lexington had a new
sound Saturday, as the sound of
student’s footsteps resonated through
town in the first annual Theta/KA 5K
run for charity. With an entry fee of only
$5, many students took the time to get
some exercise and donate some money
to charity.

“The turnout was great,” said Dana
Early, the run coordinator for Theta. “We
had over 200 donations.”

Beginning Saturday morning at 11
a.m., the course started at the gym and
weaved through Lexington, eventually

ﬁnishing at the gym. Signs and orange-
clad volunteers pointed the way, keep-
ing runners from yawing offcourse.

“It was a really good course, both
challenging and fun,” said junior Tim
Cormier, who came in 6th out of the 60-
plus runners who participated. “I was
happy to do something that helps out
a good cause.”

The proceeds from the beneﬁt were
split evenly between Theta’s national
philanthropic organization C.A.S.A.
(Court Appointed Special Advocates),
and KA’s national charity the Muscu-
lar Dystrophy Association. According
to race organizers the race turned out

to be a great success.
1

“We wanted to do this race so that
the whole school could participate in
it,” said Early. “We thought it was a
good idea because it would be a lot of
fun and we could raise a lot of money.
It worked out great.”

The ﬁve kilometer race was won by
junior Brian Ceneviva, who plays base-
ball for the Generals. The top three men
and top three women all received prizes
for being the top fmishers.

When asked whether he would par-
ticipate next year, Corrnier said he’d be
there for sure.

“It’s a great idea and was a lot of fun
to do. I’ll be looking forward to next

99

year.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

YOU WANT FRIES WITH THAT? Junior Carly Blakelock and senior Erick Englebert chomp on
hotdogs at the Manhattan Hot Dog eating contest.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1999

Busted?

New alcohol policy
clears up questions

By Mike Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

When Resident Assistant Erika
Cassutti recently saw a sophomore
entering Woods Creek apartments
with a case of beer over his shoulder,
she immediately confronted the young
man, conﬁscated the alcohol, and in-
formed the man he had to pay a ﬁne
and serve hours in the dining hall. If
this had occurred in the freshman
dorms however, it might have had a
different result before a new alcohol
policy was instituted this week by the
residence life staff.

According to the new policy, “if
any student is apprehended with al-
cohol in the freshmen residence halls,
he/she will be given a $75 ﬁne and six
hours of work in the Dining Hall.”
Though the freshmen dorms have al-
ways been alcohol-free, the new policy
is intended to help residents and visi-
tors understand the sometimes vague
policy.

“The student body needs to have
a crystal-clear understanding of all of
the policies in the dorms," said Dean
of Freshman Mark Dalhouse. “In the
past their has been some ambiguity
about whether or not upperclassmen
in the dorms can be punished for pos-
sessing alcohol. This makes it ex-
tremely clear.”

According to Dalhouse the change
in policy was not precipitated by any

*.

 l_ ,_ 
3

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
SEE ‘POLICY’ ON PAGE 2

 

Panhel to
give out
scholarship

By Mike Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sorority
women now have the opportunity to
earn a scholarship for their involve-
ment in their sororities and the Wash-
ington and Lee community.

The $500 scholarship is being
given in honor ofthe 10"‘ anniversary
of Washington and Lee’s Panhellenic
Council, and the National Panhellenic
Council's Week ofthe Scholar. Each
of Washington and Lee’s ﬁve sorori-
ties were asked to nominate one or two
members based on involvement and a
minimum G.P.A. of2.5, according to
Panhellenic member Katie Boening.

Said Boening, “We thought it would
be good to celebrate our l0"‘ year by

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
READY, STEADY, GO! Runners await the start of the Theta/KA

run for charity that ran them from Doremus Gym through town.

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi
October 4, 1999

OPINION:
Fruit-pelting pygmy tree girls

W&LIFE:

And the nominees are. . .

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

SPORTS:

VOlleyball’s run on ODAC continues
LAST WORD: PAGE 5
The Pope’s PR crusade

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

F I @112 ﬁling-tum MES

OCTOBER 4, 1999

‘SCHOLARSHIP’ from page 1

recognizing Greek women who con-
tribute both to their individual chap-
ters and to the Washington and Lee
community as a whole.”

The 10 women who were nomi-
nated were asked to complete an ap-
plication about themselves that was
due this week. The applications are
going to be examined by a committee
of Panhellenic Council members and
faculty advisors, from which a winner
will be chosen.

‘POLICY’ from page 1

particular event, but that the change
is very important to all residents.

“The fact is, alcohol in the dorms
is not conducive to the academic mis-
sion ofthis university. This change
will help reemphasize that this con-
duct will not be tolerated in the
dorms,” said Dalhouse.

This year there have been no re-
ported cases of students being caught
with alcohol in the dorms, but accord-
ing to Assistant Head Dorm Counse-
lor Jim McKnight, it becomes a large
problem as the year goes on.

‘CoNFL1CT’————
from page 1

in which a senior brother made anti-
semitic and racist remarks to two enter-
ing freshmen prior to matriculation. One
of the freshmen involved subsequently
withdrew from the university as a di-
rect result. The senior has been placed
on conduct probation for the remain-
der of the year, and suspended from
Kappa Sigma.

In an open letter to the student body
following the case, W&L president
John Elrod stated that no student
"should ever be made to feel unwel-
come because of an offensive remark
about his or her ethnic or racial back-
ground and heritage. There is abso-
lutely no place at this University for
this sort of verbal behavior."

"Here we are, looking at the year
2000," deMaria said, "and we still have

folks looking at people who are of a ‘ A
different sexual orientation with a pre- ~

1940's attitude." '

“It will be a difficult decision to
make,” said Boening. “All of the
women nominated are excellent candi-
dates.”

Panhellenic Council member Eliza-
beth Holleman agreed, saying that
“while difficult to make, the decision
would be a positive experience for all
sorority women.”

“It’s just real exciting that we had
the money in the budget to do this,”
said Holleman. “It’s good to see some-

thing that we were talking about last
spring come to pass.”

The scholarship will be awarded at
next Tuesday's “Meet the Greeks” func-
tion, a chance for all Washington and
Lee women interested in rushing a so-
rority this year to meet members of
W&L’s five sororities. The meeting will
be held from 4-6 p.m. at the Liberty Hall
Ruins, and is open to any W&L women
who are interested or curious about the
Greek system.

 

“Because there are so many par-
ties right now, there is no reason for
the kids to drink in the dorms. As the
year goes on and the number of par-
ties is reduced and the freshmenjoin
different organizations, the drinking
in the dorms increases and that’s
when we have a problem,” said
McKnight.

Both McKnight and Head Dorm
Counselor Kelly Stuart say the new
policy will help the resident life staff
better enforce the school’s policies,
and help to clarjfv the rules for i’l'1f\QP

.IN.b_1Al_\LSUMMER. --A fresh-man sits reading’ i

involved.

Said Stuart, “The freshmen dorms
have always been alcohol-free. We’re
just trying a little harder to discour-
age upperclass students from con-
tributing to the problem.”

Stuart also said it seemed “pa-
thetic” for an upperclassmen to be
caught in the dorms drinking for any
reason.

“I would hope that an upperclass-
man would have better options of
places to drink than the freshman
dnrms anvwav.”

 

photo by Emily BaePhoto Edtor
n the Graham-lees

quad, enjoying the warm weather.

 
   

    

 
  

E-mail General Notes to 

‘phi@wlu.edu ’ P,.,,;," ..

 

Hospice sponsors “Hustle”

The Rockbridge Area Hospice will be sponsoring its
3rd Annual Hospice Hustle on Sunday, October 17, 1999.
The walk will serve as a fundraiser for the hospice and
will benefit all persons involved directly and indirectly
with hospice care.

The walk will begin at 2 p.m. at Rockbridge Area Hos-
pice, located at 129 South Randolph Street. The hustle
will conclude when all participants have completed the
course.

Groups, organizations and individuals are invited to
attend. The cost for each person will be a 15 dollar mini-
mum, though children under six are free. Sponsorship of
participants is encouraged.

Participants are encouraged to registar before the walk
to ensure they receive a free t-shirt. They can, however,
register the day of the race if needed. Persons interested
in volunteering but who prefer not to walk are also wel-
come.

For any additional information, please call the hospice
at463-1848.

Homecoming Weekend to be held

Several hundred alumni are expected back on Wash-
ington and Lee's campus for this year's Homecoming fes-
tivities on October 8 and 9. Highlighting this year's Home-
coming will be a Beta House Reunion and the alumni
office's first Leadership Forum, a program for young
alumni chapter leaders. Nearly 100 members of the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity, from as far back as 1941, are registered
for the Beta House Reunion.

On Friday, at 12:10 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom of
Sydney Lewis Hall, professor Lawrence Lessig of the
Harvard Law School will deliver the 51st annual John
Randolph Tucker Lecture. Saturday events include a me-
morial service for former history professor Charles Turner
at 10 a.m. in Lee Chapel, women's soccer against
Bridgewater at 10:30 a.m. on the Liberty Hall Fields and
the football game against Davidson at 1:30 p.m. on Wil-
son Field.

Hooks receives research grant

Linda Hooks, associate professor of economics at
Washington and Lee University, received a grant from
the AAUW Educational Foundation to work on a research
project called "The Impact of Banks on Economic Growth:
Historical Evidence from Texas." The project will investi-
gate the importance of banks to growth in the rural U.S.

A in the early 1990s.

The primary purpose of the AAUW Educational Foun-

dation American postdoctoral research fellowships is to
increase the number of women in tenure-track faculty po-
sitions and promote equity for women in higher educa-
tion. The foundation is one of the nation's largest sources
of private funding for educational programs that directly
benefits women and girls, and it provides fellowships
and grants to more than 300 women around the world.

Hooksjoined the W&L faculty in 1993, and her fields
of research include monetary economics and banking.
She teaches undergraduate courses in money and bank-
ing and a seminar on the European monetary union. Prior
tojoining W&L, Hooks was an economist in the financial
industry studies department at the Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas. She received her MA. and Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles.

W&L hosts 8th annual Writer's

Harvest
Washington and Lee's contribution to the eighth an-
nual Writer's Harvest will take place in duPont Audito-
rium at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 12. The Writer's Harvest,
the nation's largest literary benefit to fight hunger and

poverty, boasts readings by more than 2,000 writers in i

600 locations nationwide each year. While in years past,
writers have shared both poetry and prose nationwide
on the same night, this year's readings are being held in
accordance with local needs.

Reading this year are Charlotte Morgan, Michael
McClure and R.T. Smith; student readers include Jennifer
Quail, David Hanson and Anna Baker, all poets.

"Through Writer's Harvest we can add to the great
gifts of literature affords us: an opportunity to feed the
hungry," says 1999 national chair Alice McDermott. "We
can transform what might be called the writer's spiritual
work of mercy-the sharing of the written word-into a cor-
poreal work of mercy as well." The benefit has raised
more than $750,000 since 1992 to fight hunger and pov-
erty. One hundred percent of the event proceeds go di-
rectly to statewide anti-hunger and anti-poverty efforts.

Charlotte Morgan, a local novelist, is the author of
One August Day, nominated by the Library of Virginia for
its 1999 Fiction Award. Her stories have been published
in Potomac Review and Phoebe. Morgan is also a recipi-
ent of the Sherwood Anderson Prize for short fiction and
the Virginia Highlands Prize for her novel. Smith, editor of
W&L's literary quarterly, Shenandoah, and author of Split
the Lark, will read poems by Irish writers. McClure is a
visiting professor in the W&L English department.

Quail, a senior, hails from Trenton, Mich., and is an
archeology/anthropology major. Hanson, also a senior,
lives in Smyrna, Ga., and is double majoring in English
and geology. Baker, from Baton Rouge, La., is ajunior
and plans to major in English and Joumalism/Mass Com-
munications.

For more information, please call R.T. Smith at 463-

-3908.. 1 ».~ .r..

..n

RAAXX99C79

 

Capital One®

 

Capital One...One of the 100 Best Companies to Work ".¥—F0rturze®(1/11/99)

Capital One recognized as one of the25 champs of
strong growth ~=-"—F0rbe$ (4/21/98)

on—campus events!

WE’RE GROWING LIKE NEVER BEFORE! Join the Capital One team
and you’ll enjoy great pay and fabulous benef1ts—like full medical and
dental coverage from day one, a generous vacation package and tuition
reimbursement.So, if you’re looking for a company with a bright future,
a challenging, fast—paced work environment, great beneﬁts and great

people, you owe it to yourself, and your career, to attend Capital One’s

Capital One number 15 of the top 50 performers on the S&P   '—Bu5inessWeek(3/29/99)

 

Please join us for the following Capital One events:
Career Information Booth: Wed., Oct. 6
outside the Co-Op from 11 a.m.—2 p.m.

Company Presentation: Wed., Oct. 6
in UC-114 at 7:00 p.m.
Opportunities available in Project Management.
All majors encouraged to attend.

GREAT CAREER

GREAT COMPENSATION

Capital One is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in the workplace. We promote (I drug-free work envimrzmerit.

GREAT BENEFITS

P

 

 

OCTOBER 4, 1999

Gay remarks

not appreciated

Is it really any of your business if Jeff Cook is gay?

That’s right. Jeff Cook — excellent student, frat guy,
student leader and all-around nice guy. Yeah. He’s gay. He’s
out of the closet. How does this affect you or the majority of
the student body?

The reality is that Cook’s sexuality doesn’t affect anyone
but him and whoever he is dating — just like the rest of us on
campus.

There has been a recent ﬂurry of anti-gay remarks on
campus. A student running for junior president promises
that he’ll be “STRAIGHT” with you. Another student paro-
dies Cook on his radio show, mainly because Cook is gay, yet

without any legitimate provocation. Put yourself in this situ-
ation. What if someone started talking about you over the air,
by name, about
your drunken
hijinks from last
w e e k e n d .
Chances are,
you’d be ticked
off, and you would be entitled to your anger. But because
Cook is openly gay, somehow he’s supposed to suck it up
and ﬂoveon. _, 

Gay jokes are really funny around this campus. Tell a
gay joke and you get a laugh. Insert any other racial/
ethnic slur into that joke, and suddenly, it’s not that funny.
Someone might even tell you that you’re not funny at all.
On most campuses, someone would tell you to shut up
because you’re racist, or in this case, homophobic.

While W&L may have a small racial and ethnic minor-
ity population, gay populations are about the same wher-
ever you go. A study once approximated that 10% of the
overall population is gay. Now just because someone is
gay doesn’t mean that they’re open about it. There are
gays all over this campus and you don’t know. It’s the one
rumor that hasn’t made it all over the incestuous little circle
of W&L — ”Hey...so-and-so is gay!”

Maybe being from outside of Washington, D.C., I’m
used to a mixture of people. I went to high school with
homosexuals, I work with homosexuals, I’m friends with
homosexuals. Folks, WAKE UP. It’s not a big deal. Your
sex life is no one’s business but your own; the same atti-
tude should be applied to those whose sexual tastes are
different from yours. For some reason, society has stated
that homosexuals are weird and different and odd. If you
feel that way, that’s your business. But the only difference
quite honestly is that sex is a bit different for them. It doesn’t
affect work ethic, personality, personal ethics, etc.It’s just
another little part that makes up a person’s description. It’s
not something to base your campaign on, or make fun of,
or to talk about incessantly.

Grow up, folks. In the real world, you’ll be working with all
sorts of people. Being racist, homophobic, or just a exclusive
snob in general isn’t going to get you anywhere. W&L fosters
this behavior simply because we encourage conformity. Don’t
speak up, don’t speak out, don’t cause a stir. Well I disagree.
It’s time to speak up, speak out and cause one hell of a ruckus.
Quit focusing on the little stuff that doesn’t matter and focus
on the issues. If you need a campaign platform, choose a posi-
tion on white book refonn, or the 95 theses or something that
affects the entire campus. If you need something to talk about
on the radio, talk about something that’s pertinent to you and
the campus. Somebody’s sexuality doesn’t count.

Homosexual isn’t a dirty word. It’ s a descriptive word, like
heterosexual. I’m not saying you have to approve of homo-
sexuality, but whatever Cook or any other person (gay or
not) does behind closed doors is their business and only
their business. You don’t have to like it or not like it, be-
cause in the end —— it’s none of your business.

_ Coffee Talk
l Heather McDonald 01

 

@112 ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-turn Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: 830

 : iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

To those who are friends,
thanks for “being there”

I watched Wayne Gretzky’s jersey be retired on Fri-
day night, which I admit is not very consequential, but
as a hockey fan I did find it rather interesting to watch
one of the greatest athletes of all time say good—bye.
However, what stays with me now is not the picture of
the famous #99 being lifted into the rafters, but rather
the picture of three of Gretzky’s
former teammates who made the
long trip to Edmonton to pay trib-
ute to the Great One.

Though not a huge sacrifice
for a retired pro athlete, it still
made me think about those around me who have been
there for me, and the Washington and Lee community
itself. I won’t say I’ve always had it the easiest here in
good old Lexington; not that it has been especially bad,
but we all have our times at the bottom of the barrel.
This is the nature of man though, so I guess I can’t
complain too much. We are always seeking more; more
happiness, more satisfaction, more material gain.

Unfortunately, these ideals of more, more, more are
always growing, with us always out of reach. Even if
we did get what we want, I have no doubt that all but
the most virtuous of us would turn around and try to
get the next best thing. This inability to stay in a state
of happiness leads us to occasionally come down with
a case of the blues. Luckily, Nature has also provided
us with a cure, and that is friendship. As Aristotle says
in the Politics, “there must be a union of those who

.-'~».

 

%

I’ I
\\ _, uote of the Week:
‘#4.,

I don’t know where I am. I’m
in a small, dark room with
really close walls next to

naked girl and I think it’ s
in a brick building.

—— W&L student’s friend from home

(I

}}

TALKback...

9 .‘.'%

“Anything, but homecoming at home in

New York. Everyone came hammered and

a few ﬁghts would break out - always.”
-Andrew Liberth ’03

Bad<p0rth Balderdash
Michael Crittenden ’01

cannot exist without each other.”

The reason we form this union is because we do
need each other; to make each other happy when times
are hard, and to be there for others, working together
towards a common human goal. Friendship is thus
borne from the root of man himselfin his natural state.

For this reason I felt a bit of
nostalgia and thankfulness
watching the ceremony in
Edmonton (I know, no one here
understands hockey, but try to
follow the analogy), because I’ve
been the recipient of an amazing amount of friendship
and caring recently. I guess it is something many of us
take for granted on a day-to-day basis, but when you
need it and you realize people are there for you, it means
a lot.

So thanks to all of you who’ve had my back the last
couple ofweeks (especially Nick, who’s a hell ofa good
guy and has taught me that New Jersey’s not that bad
a place after all). Ijust hope I won’t miss the chance to
do the same for you guys. I have also realized some-
thing about the quality of person here at Washington
and Lee. The people here are down-home good people.
As opposed to popular opinion, the people here aren’t
always apathetic and shallow. The people here do care
about something: the W&L community. I learned this
week firsthand about our family, and am glad I did.
Thanks. '

“A big parade with ﬂoats, contests,
and a day-long party.”
-Alex Poor ’03

Correction:

  

fessor Claudette Artwick was..said  if P’ A
have cancelled her broadcastjjjlab
classes all last week. This was 
rect. The lab was held only without
computers. We apologize.~,for_’any
confusion this may have caused.

 In last week’s issue ofthe  

 

PAGE 3

Watch out for
the tree girl

This past Friday, I was walking to my car after class
when a pygmy tree girl started screaming obscenities
at me and pelting me with half-eaten fruit. Since I had
not eaten all day, the half-eaten fruit was quite a treat.
She had some kiwi, bananas and even some pineapple.
I must say, pineapple probably holds the number one
spot in my heart when it comes to produce. Tangerines
following in a close second, however. I often wonder
why we have preferences for different foods. Is it really
the taste? Or does it have to do more with the experi-
ences that we associate with those foods. In all actual-
ity, I suppose that it’s a combination of the two.

For example, I like oranges much more than bananas.
Do oranges really have a better taste to me? Perhaps.
Or perhaps, the
time when my
brother threw
up banana on
me when I was
four has some-
thing to do with it. For some reason I always associate
bananas with vomit. ‘

I like spinach, too. Admittedly, however, it isn’t the
tastiest thing in the world. I think I like it because one
night at dinner we had spinach. I finished mine. I guess
I was really hungry. My brother didn’t finish his spin-
ach. My parents chided Doug for not eating his veg-
etables and praised me for eating mine. (Something the
Psychology Department surely wouldn’t approve of.)
In any case, I got to have lemon meringue pie after din-
ner. Doug had to eat lots of raisins.

He got me back though. Later on he tickled me until
I peed on myself. That was his usual mode of retalia-
tion. It did have some good. I now have an unexplain-
able immunity to tickling. Actually I guess he only used
the tickle torture when he was in a good mood, other-
wise he would just beat the tar out of me. I think his
constant beatings wore me down, broke my spirit. That’s
why I quickly succumb to the appeals of others.

By third grade, even the kindergarten girls knew that
they could kick my ass. Actually, that’s not true. It was
only that one girl. She was one mean little tyke. Sev-
enty-two pounds of fighting machine that Mary was. I
wouldn’t be surprised if she was one of those female
boxers these days. Those ladies scare me.

Who am I kidding? Laxative commercials scare me,
except for that one with the old lady who keeps telling
everyone about her husband’s loose bowels. That al-
ways cracks ‘me up.

I can see my mom being that lady. She likes to tell
everyone my business. Prom night, for example, when
we went out to dinner, I think she enjoyed telling the
waitress that I didn’t have a date. They both had a good
laugh about that. “He’s a smart boy, sometimes. Other
times I wonder where he came from. In any case, he
needs some social skills.” Well, morn, maybe I do. Maybe
I do.

 . 
if Stephen Pesce ’O1

 

LETTER To
THE EDITOR

WLUR apologizes for slurs

Dear Editor,

Last week, during an afternoon broadcast, a staff
member of WLUR lampooned student body presi-
dent Jeff Cook. The lampooning went beyond the
boundaries of common decency and good taste. I have
received several complaints about the contents of that
particular broadcast.

On Thursday, I met with Mr. Cook and issued an
apology on behalf of myself and the entire radio sta-
tion staff. This letter is an open apology to the entire
University community. We do not want the immature
actions of one reﬂect badly upon the entire staff.

We have taken measures to insure that these kinds
of events will not happen again. Let me assure the
members of this community that WLUR wants its staff
and programming to serve the entire community.

Robert J. de Maria
General Manager and Faculty Adviser, WLUR

If you could have it your way,
what would Homecoming be like?

    

“Theme parties all over campus, with

different years would dress up and there’d

be a competition between the classes.”
—Catherine Henson ’03

“A big dance with the whole school-not
as fancy as FD-and a pep rally on
Friday, like real schools do.”

-Pauli Griﬂith ’0l

 

 

cutie ﬂung-oium 1131):

IFE

  

&

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
    

 

 

 

L
PAGE 4 OCTOBER 4, 1999
1  HOIIIBC . Q ° 1 t d
J.
L
Lindsay Gatling ‘00 Nancy Dixon ‘00 Julie Horwitz ‘00 Mary Elizabeth Winfrey ‘00 Deirdre Coyle ‘00 Carson Chambers ‘00 Caroline Cobb ‘00
Beta Chi 0 Chi Psi KA Theta KD Kappa ?
Escort: Mike Malone ‘00 Escort: Drew Hess ‘02 Escort: Alex Stiles ‘00 Escort: Peer Segelke ‘01 Escort: Scott LeTourneau ‘00 Escort: Brian Brantley ‘00 Escort: Pullen Daniel ‘00
in
.'n.
h
Kelly Sewell ‘00 Renita Perkins ‘00 Athena Mahoney ‘00 Alison Ralston ‘00 Jen Davis ‘01 9 Ashley Davis ‘00 Kristen Burr ‘00
Kappa Sig MSA Phi Delt Fiji Phi Kap Phi Psi Pi Beta Phi
Escort: Lee Holland ‘00 Escort: Quincy Springs ‘02 Escort: Charles Elrod ‘00 Escort: Sean Eddy ‘00 Escort: Scott Guggenheimer ‘00 Escort: Nick Silverman ‘0l Escort: Jim Powell, VMI,V‘00 L
2 I A
I   ThePbz wishes
all of the 1999 _
Homecoming
B  nominees ,
‘ the best of luck!
Jill Kosch ‘00 Noelle Gamble ‘00 Sarah Ann Hardee ‘01 Anna Parris ‘00 Jessica Morton ‘00 Jeannie Hanna ‘00L .
Pika Pi Kappa Phi ~Sigma Chi Sigma Nu SigEp Student Bar Association ‘ S 0 N
Escort: Chris Zarek ‘99 Escort: Bennett Thompson ‘00 Escort: Whitney Knier ‘00 Escort: Robert Walker"0l Escort: Andy Thompson ‘00 Escort: Grant Waterkotte ‘01L '
6 6 ‘ ' 9 9 .
21 y 111 C l B 0 .
- - - their offices, to sports practices, to D- tion of having captured the essence The photos will be published in an
By EIl71E‘:I71Irj1R:S1\l/jlglllrgﬁanl hall dinner, to 3 a.m. paper-writing in of the model the best. early 2000 issue of the magazine, in cel-
the computer lab, to the custodians Each photographer will edit his own ebration ofboth the new millennium and .5
A view of students studying along cleaning on the late night shifts. The photographs and submit his best to Alumni Magazine’s 75th anniversary.
the Colonnade, sitting on the grass as goal of the photographers is to cap- the magazine for consideration. Ulti- If anyone knows of any activities
a gentle wind blows through — pic- ture a typical W&L day on ﬁlm. mately, the art director of Alumni which the photographers should cover,
ture perfect? That is what six photog- “It’s almost like a game or a con- Magazine will make the decision as to contact Deborah Marquardt at 463-8956 )‘
raphers will decide as they wander the test,” explained Deborah Marquardt, which pictures ﬁnally get published. or Louise Uffelman at463-8978.
Washington and Lee University cam- University Editor/Publications Man- '
pus this Wednesday and Thursday. ager. The contest will begin on noon,
As part of a project sponsored by Wednesday, Oct. 6, and end on noon
W&L Alumni Magazine, six W&L of Thursday, Oct. 7. Dsgﬁes I
alumni photographers will shoot “Anything then is OK, but it can’t Hguﬁys
around 120 rolls of ﬁlm in an attempt exceed that 24 hours,” Marquardt said. H es
to capture “A Day in the Life of W&L” The goal of the contest is to have olrzecrviming
later this week. all these professionals take the ulti- tzruiews ‘
The photographers are all profes- mate photo shoot of the school. ses
sional, as well as being W&L alumni. “Campus is the model [for the photo
The photographers participating in shoot],” Marquardtsaid. All six photog- 561 Lexington Antique Mall
L EX I N G T [I N , this contest include: Patrick Hinely ’73, raphers will be vying for the best pic- An Affordable Alternative
 Bard Wrisley ’73, Neil Johnson ’76, tures of that model, for the recogni- 5.
(it.//(’r' . /)7 1111.3"///‘/y (III. ICS MBSOH ’84, Taylor Crothers ’93 —
FRESH EACH MORNING and Hm°n,Hi"eS ’97' °‘ 4 S _ 9 ‘ ,   9  N _. I  g 7  _ _
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS The)’W111g0aT0und¢3mP11S for 24   ' . T’  -3 _ I   . " , R ‘  A
9WEST WASHINGTON sTREET- LEXINGTON -464-6586 hours, shooting pictures of anything  A ‘H e, .    I ' I  ‘
and everything at W&L: from students  V _ 9 . 9  , ’ V V 9' _ TlflUf'$d0Yi October:  _ ‘i
hanging out at the Co-op, to faculty in A " ~ ’ V 7:00-.p.m. Drama. “Maximilian, Saint of
 , -. “ L . Auschwitz.” Lenfest Center.
’- ,,,‘,:Ef‘7iday,i”C5é;tober 8 ii. Homecoming A
« "8200 a.in., Tennis (M). Southeast Regional.
. ' , G  Courts.
f 4:30 pm. Soccer (M). W&L vs. Emory&
. . ’ Henry. Liberty Hall Field. ‘
10:00 p.m. SAB Concert: The Connells. Student
-1  Activities Pavilion
Film Society. “Life is Beautiful”
} L (Italy, 1998), directed by Robert
‘ V 9 "R Benigni.TroubadourCinema. D
p L V A .  ” P , * LateNight T DIparty.Fiji.
Monday, October 4' f . t : « i 1 " ‘ A  . » I ,
'9:0’0a.m.' A 'i‘ennis(M).Soutl1eastRegional. :9 'iH°meC°mm9
‘ lvarsitycom-ts_ .. . _ ’ a 10:00 a.m. ’ = _AnnualMemorial Sen/ice,inremem~ P
v i ‘ branceofDr. Charles W. Turner, W&L
~ , . history professor.LeeChapel.
_TU¢$d°Y:   - 4 S:  {  I0:30a.in. W&L vs.Bridgewater.
’ 4=°°_P-m- Tennis (W) W&L V8;  »  .‘ av  ; 7Libe1ty Hall.Field. ‘
 College. Varsity Courts. i '1:30p;m. 2 ‘ Football. W&L vs. Davidson. Wil- I
- 6:30. .9 Vll .W&Li.S  . B 9.  ~
“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels, , Pm   V; “i¥"a“.Cem .vs w   .   §°.“?T“?“‘;, . . 
_ _ _ _ ” ‘ am“; , 3 _ ~ :_  ~ 4:00 pm. _ ‘Kg-rising band, withpig race. F131.
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie. ‘W   _j1‘1lf1_:¥}4,?1s1cS§rxe_s=Ir!¥¢*f“‘¥.‘¥f?.¥? ;1’.°?i J i9:30p.m. B :...;“st.:;«yix:?.A;iye,’= Fiji.
‘ . f°nf1“18Af‘S5¢'_1°$‘1999'299°5?R9n“i ..  ’*“'I‘heErnies,” Chi Psi. I
V Majuindar, Indian ﬂute. Leechapel. «ThephaSe,ssPika_
3 W. Nelson St. Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m. Wednesda October 6- ~ “CoconutGrQ0Ve.” SigEp.
. . . . L M y, V . g e . ~ _  v  _ e  9 , g V .“Speakeasy,”SigmaNu.
Lexington, VA 24450 Fri. - 8.00a.m. — 9.00p.m. wom_ _ vSom4r(M)‘W&L Ys.Rom¢k§.g    Lat¢Nigh:t.: A gDn,mty;_Beta_ ‘
540-464-1501 Sat. - l1:00a.m. - 9:00p.m. C011eg¢lLib°ItyH3l3Fi°1d—’? ’ 9 B‘ 5 9 l ‘S ’j [-fD1Pa1’¢Y-,ChiPS,i-

 

 

 

 

OCTOBER 4, 1999

By Sarah Schmidt

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee volleyball had another successful
week, racking up two ODAC victories. Coming off the heels
of their tournament championship at Maryville, TN, the Gen-
erals came home to knock off Randolph Macon Women’s
College in three games on Tuesday (15-1 1, 15-1, 16-14).

Senior outside hitter Nancy Reinhart led the Gener-
als with 11 kills and seven digs. Two sophomores came
up big as Lindsey Ruckert knocked down nine kills and
Lee Charbonet totaled six kills and eight digs. Charbonet
was named last week’s ODAC Player of the Week for
her performance in the Maryville tournament. Junior

   RT s

Volleyball continues dominance in ODAC, remains undefeated .

Katherine Kline amassed 15 assists, leading the Gener-
als’ setters.

Several General reserves got to see signiﬁcant court
time in the three game match. The shuffled lineup may
have contributed to some confusion on the court.

“We have to get used to playing with each other,”
Reinhart said, noting that “everyone got to contribute.”

The Generals have never dropped a match to RMWC, ’

holding a 15-0 all-time series advantage over the Wildcats,
and only once has RMWC taken W&L to a fourth game.
The Generals were in control going into the third game,
but after jumping out to an early lead, the team stalled out with
10 points and actually fell behind. RMWC has yet to win an
ODAC match, and ﬁnally succumbed to the Generals 16-14.

The Generals know that as the top seed in the ODAC
everyone is gunning for them. “We play our opponents’
best,” head coach Terri Dadio Campbell noted. “The
struggle is to keep playing our best against lesser oppo-
nents. We can’t drop our level ofplay.”

On Thursday the Generals headed back toward Ten-
nessee, this time to take on ODAC opponent Emory and
Henry. Both teams came into the match undefeated in
conference play. W&L won the match (17-15, 9-15, 15-3,
15-3), dropping only one game to E&H. Reinhart and
Ruckert dominated net play for the Generals with 18 kills
apiece. Reinhart also contributed 10 digs, while Ruckert
hammered home ﬁve solo blocks and three block assists.
Junior defensive specialist Tori Hays countered the

PAGE 5 '

Wasps’ attack with 24 digs as fellow junior Kline added '

29 set assists.

3
r
l-
r
I

Thursday’s defeat of E&H leaves W&L as the only 
remaining undefeated team in the ODAC, with a 5-0 record '.

in the conference and an 1 1-2 showing outside of the ODAC.
The win at home on Tuesday against conference foe
RMWC extends the Generals’ home win streak over ODAC

opponents to 17 in a row. 
The last time W&L lost to an ODAC team at home was toiiw
Bridgewater at the beginning of the 1994 season. Over the 3’?-

‘(-

s_y_‘-.., . .  -

.2‘

past four seasons the Generals have only dropped three out’

of 44 games in the Warner Center. The Generals, defending
ODAC champions will try to keep that streak alive Tuesday
when they face Sweet Briar at home at 6:30 p.m.

Women’s soccer survives Guilford 3-2
9

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

It was too close for comfort. The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team managed to pull out avictory, 3-2, against
ODAC opponent Guilford withjust 3 :52 leﬁ in the game.

Junior captain Shana Levine opened up scoring at the
16:04 in the match, redirecting a free kick from junior
midﬁelder Liz Olson. The Quakers answered at 47: 1 7, but
sophomore Noelle Beckman put the Generals ahead again
with her second goal of the season.

Guilford pulled even again at 2-2 until junior Lindsey
Williams knocked her game—winner home. The Generals
outshot Guilford 32-10 for the game.

“We didn’t play badly, but we couldn’t finish,” head coach
Jan Hathom said. “I never thought that we wouldn’t win, and
sometimes we do better with our backs up against the wall.”

Sweet Briar posed no threat to W&L on Thursday, and
the Generals cruised to an 8-1 victory on the day.

The team remains undefeated in the ODAC, no small
feat given the injuries various players have suffered. Se-
nior captain Deirdre Coyle has been out since the ﬁrst
game with a broken tibia, and senior captain Ginny Jemigan
is recovering from knee surgery and a broken femur. Many
other players have sustained injuries as well.

“We found out this wekend that we can pull out wins,
even if they don’t come from the names and faces we thought
they would. Others are stepping up nicely,” said Hawthorn.

Olson has put up particularly impressive numbers in
light of the recent injuries. With four goals and an assist,
she has become a true presence on the ﬁeld.

“I still think we can win [the ODAC], but the kids have
to believe that,” Hathom said.

The Generals face ODAC rival Roanoke away on
Wednesday starting at 4 p.m.

3:08 BRILL

CROSS COUNTRY: The Washington and Lee cross
country squads competed in the Frostburg State In-
vitational on Saturday aftemoon. Both the men's and
women's teams finished in 13tl1 place out of 23 teams.

For the women's squad, freshman Brooke Duncan
led the way with a 28th place ﬁnish in a time of 20: 1 2.
Junior Kathleen Moroney was second for the Gener-
als in 74th place with a time of21 :14. The Generals
were able to place their ﬁrst six runners within the top
100 runners in the race.

On the men's side, the Generals were paced by
sophomore Ken J ackman in 34th place with a time of
27:31 and sophomore Rob Naftel in 35th place just
one second later.

GOLF: The Washington and Lee Golf squad fin-
ished second overall in the W&L Fall Golf Classic
held at the Lexington Golf and Country Club. The
Generals‘ white team shot a 316-305--621 and ﬁnished
ﬁve strokes behind team champion, Roanoke. The
W&L Blue squad placed sixth overall with a 3 14-326-
-640. Individually, W&L's T.J. Wagner was the medal-
ist, shooting a 74-72--146.

WoMEN’s TENNIS: The Washington and Lee
women's tennis team claimed both the singles and
doubles championships at the ITA Southeast Re-
gional Tournament this past weekend in
Fredericksburg, Va.

In the singles competition, W&L senior Brook
Hartzell claimed the title with a 6-2, 6-7,6-1 win over
Mary Washington's Lea Schon. W&L thoroughly
dominated the competition, earning seven of the eight
quarterfinal positions. Schon was the only non-W&L
player to survive the second round. Hartzell earned
her position in the championship with a 6-2, 6-0 win
over teammate Laura Bruno. Schon outlasted W&L
sophomore Melissa Hatley by a score of 7-5, 6-4 in
the other semifinal.

Washington and Lee was equally impressive in
the doubles competition. Haitzell and Hatley, the No.
1 seeded team, triumphed over Bruno and sopho-
more Sallie Gray Strang by a score of 7-5, 6-3 to ad-
vance to the finals. Hartzell and Hatley will face team-
mates Erin Eggers and Erika Proko on Tuesday in the
championship. Eggers and Proko disposed of the No.
2 seeded team composed of Schon and Sarah Chase
in their semiﬁnal match by a score of 7-6, 7-5.

Mi:N’s TENNIS: The Washington and Lee men's
tennis team has had several players advance after the
opening round of the ITA Southeast Regional held at
W&L. In singles, sophomore Rhys James has ad-
vanced to the third round as has junior Kelly Radford.
In doubles, James and Radford teamed up to advance
to the third round, as well as the duo of freshman
Chase Bice and sophomore Bobby Reitinger.

WALKING WOUNDED: injuries have sidelined many players, yet they stay undefeated in the ODAC.

Foﬂed Again

Generals fall to RMC 30-23
By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals looked to carry their
momentum from their ﬁrst victory last weekend into
Saturday’s contest with Randolph-Macon. Unfortunately
for the Generals, they ran into an offensive juggernaut
that held on to a seesaw battle by a score of 30-23.

The game’s ﬁrst points came on the Generals’ opening
possession in which senior wide receiver J.T. Malatesta
capped the drive with a 15 yard touchdown reception
from quarterback Christian Batcheller. The Yellow Jackets
retaliated, however, with a string of 16 consecutive points
to lead by nine. The Generals were able to regain the mo-
mentum with 32 seconds left in the half when Batcheller
again hit Malatesta in the endzone, this time from ﬁve
yards out. A

W&L freshman tight-end Davis White opened up the
scoring in the second half, when he took a pass from
Batcheller and scampered 41 yards to the endzone to re-
gain the lead for the Generals 20-16. A key interception in
the endzone ended a potential game-breaking drive for
W&L. Turnovers then proceeded to plague the Generals
for the remainder of the game as a fumble on their next
possession led to a Yellow Jacket touchdown and a 23-20
deﬁcit that W&L would never overcome.

Following the touchdown a W&L drive was again halted
by a costly interception, leading to seven more points for
the Yellow Jackets. The Generals added a late ﬁeld goal to
pull within 30-23, but were unable to stop the Yellow Jack-
ets from running out the clock to end the game. W&L turned
the ball over three straight possessions leading to all 14
points that Randolph-Macon scored in the second half.

“I thought for the first time we played overall good foot-
ball for four straight quarters” said White. “We played solid,
but made mistakes in key situations which killed us.”

Coach Miriello said, “It was a good effort, but it was
faltered by critical penalties, turnovers, and poor red-zone
efficiency.”

The game was highlighted by record-breaking perfor-
mances by both quarterback Brian Partlow of Randolph
Macon, and Batcheller for the Generals. Partlow smashed
the ODAC record for passing yards with 405, and
Batcheller broke his personal record for passing yards
with 322. Batcheller’s three touchdown passes on the day
gave him 33 for his career, tying the school record.

One important ﬁgure that was missing for W&L was
star tailback, junior Marc Watson. Watson is sidelined for
three weeks with mononucleosis, thus having to sit out
this weekend’s homecoming showdown with Davidson.

Davidson, according to Coach Miriello, plays “smash your
face football”, which will be a big adjustment from Randolph-
Macon’s aerial attack. Miriello promises, however, that the
“guys will recover for a good homecoming effort.” Hopefully
that effort will translate into a win this Saturday.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Stroebel scores

Men’s Soccer 1-1 for week
By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team had an up A,
and down week, gaining their first ODAC victory Thurs- if
day against Hampden Sydney before falling to Christo— 

pher Newport University Saturday.

The Generals (2-5) started the week offwell, defeating
perennial ODAC power Hampden Sydney 2-] at Liberty
ﬁeld. W&L struck early on a goal by senior Jamie Parker in
only the fourth minute ofthe game. but llampden Sydney

quickly knotted the score only minutes later. W&L‘s re- ,-

 

cent streak of bad luck in close games ended though as 

sophomore John Stroebel ﬁnally ﬁnished a shot offa ﬂick

from sophomore Andrew Grimes. and the Generals came

away with the much needed conference victory.
Saturday the team traveled to Christopher Newport

«, . _ , .
.,r~.- . »,.~,_v- 
«.-.‘-.’tr. 3... . .

University looking for another upset with conﬁdence still 
high following the Hampden Sydney victory. The Gener- ‘'
als started well but couldn’t manage to score on early -;;-

chances. The defense held though, and the half ended "

tied 0-0 as both teams had seven unsuccessful shots.

The Captains netted two goals in the ﬁrst seven min-
utes of the second half. W&L had only one more shot in
the half, which almost seemed like a different game and the
match ended in a 2-0 loss for the Generals.

While W&L returned home without what would have
been a huge victory, the team acknowledged their improved
play. “We played great the ﬁrst half, with lots ofintensity
and really matched their skill,” Stroebel said. “But then we

fell apart in the second half and they took advantage. They . 
were deﬁnitely one ofthe best teams we have played,” he _; 

added. The Generals look for another ODAC victory ‘

Wednesday against Roanoke at Liberty ﬁeld at 4:00 p.m.

THE BEST

MILLIONS OF

MINDSIN

AMERICA HAVE ALREADY
CHOSEN THE BEST
RETIREMENT SYSTEM:

TIAA-CREF.

W hen it comes to planning a
comfortable future, America’s
best and brightest turn to the expert:
TIAA-CREE With over $250 billion in
assets under management, were the
world’s largest retirement system, the
nations leader in customer satisfaction,*
and the overwhelming choice of people
in education, research, and related ﬁelds.

Expertise You Can
Count On

For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro-
duced intelligent solutions to America’s
long-term planning needs. We pioneered the
portable pension, invented the variable
annuity, and popularized the very concept
of stock investing for retirement. In fact, we

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

are subject to certain risks Including the possible loss of principal.

manage the largest stock account in the
world (based on assets under management).
Today, TIAA-CREF can help you

achieve even more of your ﬁnancial goals.
With TIAA—CREF you'll find the
ﬂexibility and choice you need, backed by
a proven history of performance,
remarkably low expenses, and peerless

commitment to personal service.

Find Out for Yourself

To learn more about the world's premier
retirement organization, talk to one of our
retirement planning experts, or better still,
speak to one of your colleagues. Find out
why, when it comes to planning for tomor-
row, great minds think alike.

To ﬁnd out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

wwW.tiaa—cref.org

"‘DAl.BAR. lnc.. I.9.97De/ined Cantributlan Excellent: Ratings. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. TIAA-CREF Individual and institutional
Services. Inc. distributes CREF certiﬁcates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the
TlAA~CREF Mutual Funds. For more complete information, including charges and expenses, please call for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest or send money. To request prospectuses. call I 800 842-2733, ext. 5509. Investments in securities such as mutual funds and variable annuities

8/99

 

..(.

PAGE 6

Z
i...
as
2-29
§<=‘=€
an
3.52
31
eggs
Zwbﬂ

LAST WORD  

 

OCTOBER 4, 1999

The ﬁna

By Kevin McManemin

BLEA TING AND BABBLING

<Scene.' the tastefully appointed
inner chambers of the Vatican. The
Pope sits on a chair as a Cardinal
paces back and forth, pleading with
the Pontiff >

Pope: [will not change the doctrine
of the Church to make it more popular!
God’s word is not a popularity con-
test!

Cardinal: Your Holiness, please.
Our situation is desperate. The num-
bers of Catholic clergy are declining
worldwide. The youth are turning to
atheism, Satanism, or worse ~
Presbyterianism! And that damn ls-
lam thing is showing no sign ofgoing
away. We’re'not asking you to change
God’s word. . .just put a new spin on
it.

Pope: What?

Cardinal: Look, l’m not a PR per-
son. That’s why we’ve ﬂown in two
people to talk to you. Your Holiness,
let me present Arthur James, Wash-
ington, D.C. image consultant and Ken
Goldstein, PR director of Big Budget
studios, Hollywood.

<Cardinal exits to fetch the spin
doctors. A moment later, the doors
burst open and two men with slicked
back hair, Armani suits, sunglasses,
and shoes that cost more than most
small cars saunter in. >

Ken: John Paul, baby! Glad to meet
you.

Arthur: lt’s apleasure. babe. Well,
let’s get down to business. Issue one:
increasing the Church’s sagging profit
margins.

Ken: Two words, babe: product
placement.

Pope: What?

Arthur: Millions ofpeople attend
Catholic churches around the globe.

 
  
 
   

   

 
  

When you visit a country, pictures of
the popemobile appear on every news-
paper and TV station. You’re just wast-
ing that ad space! Companies would
pay big bucks for a banner on the
popemobile or a billboard on the altar.

Pope: That’s unconscionable.

Arthur: You could get Pepsi and
Coke into a big bidding war if you’d
agree to change the communion wine
to a soft drink.

Pope: Absolutely not!

Ken: Alright, alright, just a sugges-
tion. Next issue: the Bible. No one reads
anymore, baby.

Pope: Please don’t address me as
“baby.” “Your Holiness” will be ﬁne.

Ken: (aside) lt’s like I’m working
for Spielberg again.

Arthur: Look, there’s a lot of
highly marketable stuffin the Bible —
plenty of sex, lots of violence. Great
stuff. Just super. But rather than a
book, we’d like to make it into a weekly
television series.

Ken: And get this —- Leo Dicaprio
has expressed interest in playing
Jesus! Although, rather than being the
immaculate Son of God we’d like to
rewrite the part as just a regular guy,
that would make the character easier
for viewers in our key demographic to
relate to.

Pope: ls this some sort of sick joke?

Arthur: We never joke about huge
marketing potential! Just imagine —
Apostle action ﬁgures, “make your
own miracle” magic kits. . .

Ken: The movie, the video game,
the Happy Meal tie-ins with
McDonalds, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut. . .
Why, someday the Catholic Church
might even be bigger than Disney!

Pope: The Catholic Church is not
interested in perverting the laws of
God to pander to what’s “popular.”

Arthur: It’s not about pandering,
it’s about putting a hip new spin on’
something very old.

Ken: I mean, it’s like Puff Daddy

Good ’l'iW\€,S berween
areal’ +as+e berweem classes.

remaking the Po1ice’s “Every Breath
you Take.”

Arthur: Good song.

Ken: Great song.

Pope: I hardly think that’s. . . look, I
thank you gentlemen for coming, but
I’m afraid this won’t work out. Vatican
City and Hollywood were never meant
to meet.

Arthur: Alright, your loss. We’ve
just got one more suggestion, ifyou’d
like to stop the decline of young people
signing up for the priesthood.

Pope: What?

Arthur: This whole celibacy thing
has got to go. Today’s sex-crazed
youth aren’t going to sign up for the
priesthood if celibacy is ajob require-
ment.

Ken: Look at the numbers. 75 per-

cent of boys and 50 percent of girls ..

have had sex by age 19. 20 percent
have had 6 or more sex partners. 5 per-
cent were actually having sex while
they took this survey. _And by the way,
homosexuality is more popular than
Catholicism in most ofCalifornia.

Pope: Get out ofthe Vatican! lfwe
let the church be run by public opin-
ion, we’ll all end up in Hell!

Ken: That’s another thing we
wanted to bring up.

Pope: What?

Ken: Hell. It’s kind of hard for
people to subscribe to your religion
knowing that if they screw up, they
spend an eternity getting tortured.

Arthur: Ouch!

Ken: Big ouch.

Arthur: We think you should in-
stitute a more believer-friendly after-
life policy. I mean this Heaven thing -
great concept, super idea. Couldn’t ev-
eryone get into heaven?

Pope: I don’t make God’s laws.

Ken: We know, we know. Wejust
want you to put a different spin on
them.

Pope: GET OUT!

Ken: Fine, ﬁne. We’ve got a meet-

Friertéls ,

ing with the Dalai Llama to get to any-
way.

Pope: Wait a minute, what did you
say?

Arthur: The Dalai Llama. He’s very
interested in appealing to the youth
demographic. Buddhism is through the
roof right now after Rage Against the
Machine and the Beastie Boys rocked
out at those Tibetan Freedom Con-
certs.

Pope: (under his breath) That damn
Llama. Hold on, you guys. Perhaps the
Catholic Church could use a fresh new
image. We’re not beat that easily.

*>l<*>l<**>l<**>l<*=l<****>l<

VJ: Hey waddup, you watchin’
MTV’s Spring Break, yeah yeah yeah.
We gots some mad fresh guests chill-
ing wid us on the beach today —— Den-

nis Rodman and da Pope. Waddup,
guys?

<Camera pans to two men, one
with green hair with a curse word
shaved in it, a nose ring, three ear-
rings, a bra and nothing else. Dennis
Rodman is wearing his Bulls jersey. >

Pope: Yo yo, ljust be chillin’ like
Bob Dylan, maxin’ and relaxin’ like
Michael Jackson, you know what I’m
saying? Excuse me while I drink a Coke.
Yes, Coca Cola —the official soft drink
ofthe Catholic Church. Drink a Coke,
go to Heaven! Drink a Pepsi, BURN
IN HELL! (gives thumbs up while
drinking)

< The scene fades to black with the
faint sound of thunder and lightning
rolling in from the distance. . .>

lvictory of the spin doctors

Complaint letter count

<O>

If this week's column
doesn't piss some people
off, I'll be insulted.

Insulted this week:

—-—Spin doctors, no, not
that crappy music group that
you probably listened to in
high school.

—Some would say the
Pope, but Ithink I made his
character quite loveable in
an endearing sort of way.

——Spielberg

 

K
V
'7

o
\

"\

/C4PP/l ALPHA T HE TA 00/VGRA T I/Z/-l TES
T //E/R HOMECOM//VG NOMINEES.-

Deirdre Cogle
Sarah Ann Hardee

Noelle Gamble

GOOD LUCK, GIRLS!!!’

 

Buy a Coca-C_ola® class_ig from any specially marked on-campus vending
machine and you could win a commemorative Coca-Co|a® classic/NFL T-Shirt*.

‘Specially marked packaging available in specially marked vending machines until 11/30/99 or while supplies last. No purchase necessary. Requests for free
game piece must be received by 12/28/99. See specially marked vending machines for details or call 1-800-785-2653.

©1999 The Coca-Cola Company. “Coca-Cola“ and the Red Disk Icon are registered trademarks of The Coca-Cola Company.

 
   
   

it

3

 

4, .(t;rI?,.755

U112 ﬂing-tum {H

 

  

 

P\TC i‘\ I

re‘-‘§i’..
.9/. IO 1»
31?)» (O
c /2.»

WASIIINGTON ANI) LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

VOLUME 102, No.10

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1999

, Age- old
. arrives at W&L

deb ate

Creationism vs. evolution argument
explores divisive questions on campus

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee junior Tyler
Jorgensen doubts that his mind shares
a common ancestry with other beings.

“My brain has a concept of right
and wrong beyond the basic impulses
of procreating and surviving,”
Jorgensen said. “That must have come
from somewhere other than the animal
kingdom.”

W&L Geology professor Fred
Schwab doesn’t share Jorgensen’s
distrust of evolution. He believes evo-
lution is the basis of biology and hu-
man development. '

“I have faith in a chemical experi-
ment billions of years ago  in some
ancient ocean,” Schwab said.

Comments like these framed the de-
bate Oct. 5, as scientists and creation-
ists came together for a public forum
on creationism and evolution and their
place in education. 150 people packed
W&L’s Northern Auditorium for a
panel discussion featuring ﬁve W&L
professors. For an hour and a half pan-
elists and the student dominated au-
dience exchanged ideas and beliefs.

Biology professor John Knox said
creationism has no place in science.

“It’s beyond the bounds of science
to invoke God for explanations,” Knox
said. “The supernatural can’t be
taught in science.”

Politics professor Lucas Morel said
scientists shouldn’t be so quick to dis-
miss the role of religion in helping ex-
plain our universe.

“[Scientists think] religion should
just stay in a box,” Morel said. “Reli-
gion can deal with facts that are ascer-
tained outside of labs.”

75 years after the Scopes “monkey
trial,” evolution is still making head-
lines. The Kansas Board of Educa-
tion voted recently to remove evolu-
tion and the Big Bang theory from the
state’s science curriculum. While the
decision did not ban evolution from
classrooms, it removed the subject
from statewide student evaluation
tests. Kentucky school administrators
this week removed the word evolution
from guidelines for middle school and
high school courses. Employing the
phrase “change over time” to take its
place, school ofﬁcials promised that
the change was only a semantics is-
sue.

The forum was not the first time
creationism has been a topic at W&L
this year. Stephen Jay Gould, a noted
scientist and author, discussed the
Kansas decision with students and
faculty before giving the Fall Convo-
cation address.

“[This decision] is like teaching En-
glish, but making grammar optional,”
Gould said. “[You’re] taking the cen-

terpiece out of science.”

Schwab insisted that creationism
and science cannot mix, especially in
the classroom.

“Creationism is fine, but keep it out
of my classroom,” Schwab said. “It
asks me to throw out 45 cabinets worth
of research and samples.”

Morel said such dismissals of cre-
ationism are common among scien-
tists. Because they haven’t developed
the whole evolutionary picture, they
refuse to admit creationism or other
theories may have a place in solving
the puzzle.

“I’m in favor of intellectual hon-
esty,” Morel said. “Evolutionary sci-
entists should be honest about the
problems with their own theories.”

Knox said the evidence supporting
evolution grows all the time.

“Evolution goes on today,” Knox
said. “We have evidence of special
[evolutionary] events occurring natu-
rally.”

Knox said a primary contention in
the debate is the difference between
scientists’ and the general public’s in-
terpretation of theory. He said evolu-
tion is a well-tested and well-re-
searched theory that scientists accept
as the rule. Schwab said that open-
ness to change is one of the primary
reasons why creationism cannot be
considered a science.

“Creationism is a statement,”
Schwab said. “You have to take it or
leave it, because it’s not open to de-
bate.”

English professor Kary Smout said
the creationism issue may see some
resolution when both sides begin try-
ing to understand each other’s argu-
ments.

“We ought not to see language as
a matter of truth versus lies,” Smout
said.

He said the creationism debate is
currently a competition between the
world views of academia and of fun-
damentalism.

Associate Dean of the College
Steve Desjardins said the difficulty in
justly teaching creationism is consid-
ering different religions’ interpreta-
tions.

“The difﬁculty with creationism is
who’s creation story do we teach?,”
Desjardins asked. He said all sorts of
beliefs, from Hinduism to the ancient
Greeks’, would have to be considered.

“We question evolution because it
contradicts one chapter of one
country’s religion’s interpretation,”
Desjardins said. “We teach biology
because you don’t have to believe it.”

Moderator and Philosophy profes-
sor Lad Sessions summarized the
course of the forum at the beginning.

“Tonight’s discussion is volatile,”
Sessions said. “Some even doubt that
rational discussion, much less civil dis-
cussion, can be held on this subject.”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

HERE SIIE COMES. . . Ms. HOMECOMING QUEEN: Senior Kappa Alpha Theta representative Deirdre
Coyle and escort Scott LeTourneau receive their crowns at halftime of Saturday’s football game.

Lending a helping hand

Volunteerism ﬁnds new popularity at Washington and Lee

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

Sophomore Shelley Parks knows
about giving a helping hand. Last year
she volunteered at Waddell
Elementary’s aﬂerschool music program
working with kindergartners and first-
graders.

“We basically introduced them to.

music. Some were very shy about sing-
ing at first,” Parks said. “The kids, espe-
cially the boys, gained a greater interest
in music and more conﬁdence.”
Volunteerism at W&L is on the rise,
most noticeably after the Total Action
Against Poverty (TAP) freshman orien-
tation program, made volunteerism a hot
topic. Dean ofFresliman Mark Dalhouse
organized a freshman orientation project

«

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Sigma Chi brothers enjoy Saturday’s Homecoming tailgate before the football game.

in inner-city Roanoke through the TAP
program. About 30 freshmen lived in
public housing for a week and performed
community service.

Volunteerism isn’t restricted to the
freshman class however. Parks found
out about the need for volunteers at the
annual Activities Fair held during fresh-
man orientation. Students have also
gotten involved in the service projects
is through the Shepherd Poverty Pro-
gram. Students involved in the program
start with Interdisciplinary 101, a pov-
erty studies class, and then follow up
the class with an eight-week ﬁill-time
volunteer project over the summer. Pro-
fessor Harlan Beckley is director of the
program.

“This generation is deﬁnitely not
apathetic,” Beckley said. “They have
been very responsive towards becom-
ing acquainted with lives they had not
had occasion to know well before.”

The increased interest in volunteer
work found another outlet at last
Tuesday’s first armual volunteer fair.
About 27 volunteer organizations gath-
ered in the Science Center’s Great Hall.
Lucy Baldwin, W&L’ s Volunteer Coor-
dinator, organized the fair. Community-
based groups ranging ﬁom local schools
to the Free Clinic to the Valley AIDS
Network had tables with representatives
to talk about their programs.

“The program ﬁlled a niche and need
of the student body by providing an
outlet for interest,” Baldwin said. Echo-
ing Beckley, she also said that W&L stu-
dents today are much more altruistic in
attitude.

“It’s certainly a change [in attitude].
I get a very real sense of a different stu-
dent body then when I was here four
years ago [as a student],” said Baldwin.

This increased student interest at
W&L fueled the creation of a new vol-
unteer club. Sophomore Stacy
McLoughlin organizedthe first meeting.
Over 100 students attended, and

McLoughlin received many more emails
from interested students.

“The club’s purpose is threefold,”
McLoughlin said. “We are learning
about issues, that there are still prob-
lems in the community, and also that stu-
dents can make a difference in the
world.” The club will hold weekly and
monthly projects, and will also sponsor

‘monthly speakers and “service retreats.”

With more and more publicity, and
increasing interest in volunteer work,
more students will be taking the steps
necessary to get involved. Beckley and
Baldwin noted how many students vol-
unteer once, and are hooked. Parks is
one of them.

“I am going to try to read at the el-
ementary school this term,” Parks said.
“I enjoy working with kids and I find the
experience very rewarding to me person-
ally. I had a wonderﬁil time last year.”

Computer
problems
continue

Students frustrated
By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

Last Friday at 6: 15 p.m., the com-
puter network crashed. Only this time
the outage was planned.

In an attempt to stabilize the W&L
computing network, the Jefferson
server was shut down completely by
University Computing beginning Fri-
day in order to take apart the Trimble
server.

In a broadcast email message sent
to the entire W&L community, Univer-
sity Computing said the network out-
age would cause problems. Student
labs were not functioning, because
Novell (the software which the sys-
tem runs on) would not be accessible.
Students were unable to log into their
personal home directories or Pegasus
email. By transferring the ﬁles from
Jefferson to the Trimble server, Uni-
versity Computing is hoping to stabi-
lize the H: drive for student work in
labs and email access.

University Computing has still not
discovered exactly what is wrong with
the school network. Since the begin-
ning of September, the servers have

‘crashed frequently and unexpectedly,

creating havoc for the W&L commu-
nity. Stuckey said that University
Computing has determined that the
main problem is that something con-

tinually triggers Jefferson to freeze, I

causing the system to crash.

Despite the efforts of University
Computing, frustration is reaching an
all-time high. Junior Ted Adams was
working on an English paper in one of
the student labs when Jefferson
crashed suddenly on Thursday after-
noon.

“I really want to kill somebody right
now,” Adams said. “This is ridiculous.
We’re paying enough in tuition that
they could spend the money to fix the
system. Can’t we just hire some guys
from MIT and pay them a million each
to ﬁx it? Somebody ﬁx it now!”

Students are not the only ones anx-
ious about the servers. The Univer-
sity Computing staff is also frustrated.

“We have not yet found any one
thing. We have initiated high-level
tech support with Novell and Dell [the
makers of the software and hardware
for the servers], and this is ongoing.
We can’tjust turn off the system and
fix it at any time, because it will incon-
venience students,” said Student
Computing Coordinator Dirk van
Assendelft.

Since Sept. 23, University Comput-
ing has been sending out bulletins on
the sewers’ status to campus ofﬁcials.

“One way that students can help
out is if they move to Groupwise [email
accounts],” van Assendelft said. Be-
cause Groupwise is not on the
Jefferson server like the old email pro-
gram Pegasus, more students using
Groupwise will free up the Jefferson
server.

October 1 1, 1999

OPINION:

W&LrFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

Elie Tiling-tum iﬂlii.

Runner tirades against WLUR DJ

Mindbending experiences

Generals fall in homecoming showdown

McManemin: He’s so unusual

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

Picture, if you will, the stereotypical female distance
runner: long and lean, with strong muscles, tiny legs, and
a painfully thin body, running miles a week virtually on
empty, eating only a salad after burning 1,000 calories in
practice. Unhealthy. Amenorrheic. Anorexic. Unfortu-
nately, statistics show that this image is one that is all too
accurate: Sports Illustrated reported that 70% of women
athletes suffer from eating disorders. Another study put
cross-country on the top of the list for sports at the high-
est risk forthe development of eating disorders. These
illness can lead to osteoporosis, al-
tered brain function and size, heart
weakness, central nervous system
disturbances, and sometimes, in 10%
ofcases, result in death. They are not
things to be taken lightly.

So, as an experienced runner who’s
been on the cross country and track teams for nine years

 

, and seen eating disorders and the pain of their conse-

quences in full force, you can imagine my outrage when I
casually turned on WLUR the other night and heard sev-
eral male voices, one being the captain of the men’s cross-
country team, expounding on the “heaviness” of the run-
ners on the women’s cross-country team. Laughing loud
and long, they made wisecrack after wisecrack referring to
how much the members of the women’s team eats, the size
of our butts, and the “feeding frenzy” that occurs when
we stop for fat-free frozen yogurt after meets (God forbid
we ingest 350 calories - we’ve onlyjust burned off800 or
so during the race). They joked about our ability to run
fast despite being overweight (although one was quick
to add that we don’t in fact run fast, wejust think that
we do), going on and on and finding themselves quite
amusing. This funny little chat continued for some time,
but I eventually turned off the radio, disgusted and
upset, remembering the girl on my high school team
whose self-created running program involved training
over 100 miles a week and drinking a Diet Coke for lunch.
She ended up in the hospital on several occasions, and
now has been injured as a result of brittle bones so many

Staff
Editorial

We want chips and salsa. We want chips and
salsa. For the past several months, the in-town Lex-
ington comrrniriity has enjoyed quality Mexican
food at a super prices. I cannot express in mere
words how giddy the El Puerto across from the
post office made me. Well rumor has it that El
Puerto’s in-town branch is closed for good. Phooey,
man, that sucks. Taco Bell surely has its much ap-
preciated place in society, but it just doesn’t com-
pare to the authentic Mexican taste of El Puerto.
Lexington just isn’t complete without a restaurant
that offers unlimited chips and salsa while you wait
for your meal. Chimichangas make everyone happy,
where else in town can you be greeted with a friendly
“I-Iola.”

Where are we as a community supposed to go
from here? Life can surely not be the same here in
Lexington. Granted, the El Puerto hasn’t been there
for a year, but its departure is as if we’ve seen the
land of milk and honey only to learn that the milk
and honey are leaving. Come back milk! Come back
honey!

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂliig

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
1«a}’out Editor Neal Willetts

Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor. but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wluedu./~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 Maine Speed

 Wendy Case ’01

@112 itting-tum ilﬂhi

Running their mouths off

times that she can never run again.

Why was this little discussion not funny and hurtful
on more than a personal level? Let me count the
ways...First of all, the captain’s tirade gives a poor im-
pression to the school ofthe relations between the men’s
and women’s teams. If he fails to give support the
women’s team, finding it acceptable to in fact insult us
publicly, what does that say to the rest ofthe school?
Not to mention the obvious fact that is simply rude to
express a degrading and personal opinion on the air - not
very “gentlemanly” if you ask me.
Furthermore, the insults were simply
unnecessary. What did these guys
gain by cruelly making fun of a very
sensitive issue? Are they that inse-
cure?

And, are they that clueless? Our
campus has serious problems with eating disorders. Many
girls suffer day to day with their food issues here at W&L
and on a national level. The prevalence of anorexia and bu-
lirnia is common knowledge in today’s society and of great
concern: look at the countless workshops and speakers that
come to college campuses to try and prevent these illnesses
from occurring. Were these guys just ignorant of the com-
monplace of eating disorders here? Or were they insensitive
to the impact they could have been making? Or did they
realize what they were doing and just didn’t care?

Lighten up, you say. Calm down, girls, they were just
joking around. Teasing you. Being guys. Well, we’re not
laughing this time. These remarks could have and may
have had profound effects on the health and self-es-
teem of my teammates. I suppose, though, that we
should apologize. We’re sorry for not having a sense
ofhumor. We’re sorry for being hungry after exerting
extreme physical energy in practice. We’re sorry for
giving into our sweet tooth once a week. We’re sorry
that not all of us look like starved professional athletes
with under 10% body fat. Now I think you all need to
apologize. If you need to find us, we’ll be on our ten
mile run...there, or Salerno’s.

LETTERS To

Theme housing will only

lead to more complaints

Dear Editor, ‘
I read with interest your story concerning proposed

“theme housing” for the 2000-2001 academic year (9-‘
27-79). However, I was slightly confused by the com-?

ment from Gabrielle Best in which she said, “I think it’s
a good idea but I don’t see how plausible it’s going to
be. You need to get to the heart ofthe issue, just hav-
ing them housing is not going to make us more di-
verse.” I have a problem with that statement on two
levels.

First level, the school is merely offering the ability
for students to live in an atmosphere that they might
find to be exotic or familiar to home. Educationally, it
could really improve the foreign language speaking skills
of students who cannot afford to travel abroad. I ap-
plaud the school’s effort.

Second level, I find that Washington and Lee stu-
dents who share the view of Ms. Best are often touting
the woes of a homogenous campus while accusing the
school of a failure to get to the “heart” of the problem.
I have yet to hear one of these students’ opinions on
what exactly is the “heart of the issue.” The real prob-
lem is that these students complain when the school
does not act and then turn around and complain when it
does act. What policy would they like to see in action?
We could adopt the policy ofquotas. In fact, this policy
has proven to increase diversity on a number of college
campuses across the country and perhaps we should

try it to see if it works.
However, this policy is often known to backlash

against minority students whose peers dismiss their
acceptance into the university as illegitimate or con-
tribute it only to the policy of quotas, which does not
encourage a positive academic environment. The bot-
tom like is this: a college education is neither compul-
sory nor inexpensive. Each W&L student has the free
will to apply to any school that they desire and upon
acceptance attend that school. No one is forcing any-
one to be here. In fact, each student willingly pays
the administration to administer the school in a way
in which they deem fit. If you don’t like this, send
your money elsewhere.
Respectfully,
Robert Wallace Karrington VI

 

OCTOBER 1 l, 1999

  

ON AIR

THE EDITOR

To the miserable people

Dear Editor,

First off, I take offense to the Phi ’s description of my
campaign posters as “homophobic.” The term “ho-
mophobic” implies a type of irrational fear that I do not
possess. Nothing about my denouncement of homosexu-

There is nothing wrong with accepting homosexuals as
people. The act of homosexuality, on the other hand, is
illogical, perverse and destructive to the human race. It
is counterproductive for us as a society to support this
kind of behavior. Homosexuality is part of someone’s
lifestyle and a political candidate has every right to make
one’s lifestyle and morals an issue.

Secondly, to all the people who have sent me hatemail
and all the people who have left harassing phone mes-
sages without having the backbone to leave their name
or phone number, please save your poorly argued, self-
righteous ramblings for a campus full of followers who
buys it. You have in no way begun to change my stance
on this issue or made me feel even an ounce of guilt. I
award you no points, and may God have mercy on your
souls. After all, you are the miserable people. It’s people
like you that make the rest of us look so damn good.

Thirdly, thank you to everyone who has supported
me and wants to help me help our class. I am open to all
suggestions. I will be appointing my cabinet shortly.

Your salty class president,

John Herbert ‘0l

P.S. Next stop, E.C. president.

Rage against the McManemin

Dear Editor,

It is possible to sin not only through action, but also
through inaction, and Kevin McManemin’s “The ﬁnal
victory ofthe spin doctors” is a glaring example ofjust
how to do this. McManemin clearly takes a stinging
backhand shot at Dennis Rodman in a dastardly and
underhanded manner. After pattering on through a half-
page of Papish prattle, he brings Rodman up with only
the mention that he is wearing his Bullsjersey. This is
unconscionable.

Dennis Rodman is a national hero who, aside from
being unarguably the best basketball player of all time,
epitomizes the ideals of American liberty and free speech.
By describing Rodman as anything less than what he

is, by degrading him to just another Joe wearing a
Bulls jersey, McManemin is making an unabashed
show of immoral racist prejudices. He is clearly choos-
ing to ignore all that is distinctive about Rodman, and
instead focusing on the (need I mention he’s white?)
Pope.

_ _ _  , _ , , The slight does notend there, thoiigli. In the com- ‘
alrty IS Irrational, nor‘does it encompass any type of fear. " ‘

plaintiiletter count, spin" d'oct6r§;‘ ‘the Pope, ' and’
Spielberg are all accounted for, but nowhere does he
even so much as admit to his slander of Rodman. To
strikewand admit it is one thing, but to cold-bloodedly
overlook that any transgression has been made is
showing no remorse and, quite likely, no human con-
science.

When considered in light of the very first article in
that issue of the Phi, it becomes unquestionable that
McManemin is host not only to disgusting racial preju-
dices, but anti-feminist chauvinism (where are the
women in his article?) homophobia (are any alterna-
tive sexual lifestyles represented?) and heterophobia
(for is not the mocked Pope a symbol of Catholic and
Christian Virtues?).

Even if only for his insensitivity, even disregarding
the plethora of other sins he has piled upon his head,
it is obvious that strong measures should be taken in
regard to Mr. McManemin. Although his articles have
traditionally been funny, harmless pieces, he has re-
vealed the monster that he is, and in the name of all
that is orange, round, and gets slam-dunked as well as
sunk from the three-point line, let this monster be dealt
with!

Bryant Adams ’01

; R,
I

  uote of the Week:

“ 

We’re going to have to move
on to the faculty.

— Junior girl lamenting lack
of available men at W&L

 What is your best Homecoming memory? .

 

 

 

“Watching friends sit on our apart-
ment floor after a ‘hard’ night at Pi
Phi.”

-Britt Shaffer ’02

“Uh. Ican’t remember.”
-Shabboo Hosseini ’02

were lots of people.”

-Raphael Penteado ’03

“Chi Psi was awesome because the
food and drinks were good and there

“Seeing everyone all dressed up
and the alumni visiting. The
enthusiasm was great.”

-Rob Brown ’03

,\f

 

 

OCTOBER 1 1, 19.99

W&

@112 ittirtg-Glam lﬂlri

IFE

PAGE 3

Drama that will bend your mind

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Five dollars and a little imagination
makes Broadway come alive in Lexing-
ton. So, at least, would argue Mindbend-
ing Productions president Brian Prisco.

Mindbending Productions, also
known as Mindbenders, is a student-run
theater production company. Fifty stu-
dents from W&L undergrad and law, as
well as VMI participate in ﬁnding or writ-
ing scripts and then producing perfor-
mances based on them, thus bringing an
idea for a play into reality for the beneﬁt
of the Lexington community.

The group was founded in 1996 by
two students who wanted to put on a
production and took the initiative to do
it on their own. Since then, the group
has grown drastically, but its primary pur-
pose remains the same.

“We provide an outlet for anything
that anybody wants to do,” vice-presi-
dent Kathie Soroka ‘O1 said.

Students come with their own scripts,
or a known author’s script and a unique
idea of a way to perform it, and if they are
interested and dedicated enough to see it
through, the group will work with them to
make their ideaareality.

“If someone has an interest and is
willing to follow through with it, we’ 11 do

it,” Prisco said.

Subject material itself is chosen by

consensus. If someone has an idea that
a number of people are willing to work
with, it comes alive. If not enough inter-
est exists on the part of the initiator or
the other members, the idea dies.

One of the things that makes
Mindbenders unique is its budget, or
lack thereof. The group does not receive
money ﬁom the EC, and while it has re-
ceived money from the theater depart-
ment, it tries to A
steer away from A " ' "
spending money
at all.

“We can do a
quality show with-
out having to
spend that kind of
money. We can do
something just as
good for like ﬁve
bucks, the cost of
printing the
scripts,” Prisco
stated.

The group is
not in competition
with any other
group on campus.

“We work in
conjunction with
Lenfest. . . We’re a
little less stringent,
but that doesn’t
mean our produc-

 

tions are any less quality,” Prisco said.

While the group does enjoy putting
on full perfonnances, it also enjoys pro-
ducing improvisational comedy nights,
such as the one at the Ruse on Saturday
night. “We just get up on the stage and
go crazy,” Prisco said.

Soroka agreed, “It's really hard not
to have a good time when you're up

there making a fool out of yourself.”

   
   

Their next event will be what Prisco
calls “a little guerilla theater” on Parents’
Weekend. Members will look at the Com-
plete Works of William Shakespeare
Abridged, then break into little troupes,
wandering along the Colonnade and
finding people for whom they can act
out bits of Shakespeare.

Anyone interested in Mindbenders
should contact Prisco or Soroka.

‘* 

4‘

photo courtesy of Meredith Welch

“YADA, YADA, YADAI”: Sophomore Helen Downes and senior Meredith Welch
onstage during a Mindbending Productions presentation at the Ruse last year.

Say ‘JALO’ to new college-aged Website

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Do you ever ﬁnd yourself hope-
lessly searching the intemet for infor-
mation that you know must be out there
but that you just can’t seem to ﬁnd?

Finding that needed information is
now much easier with the recent intro-
duction of the web portal www.jalo.com.
JALO is an acronym for “Just Another
Link Organizer” and is pronounced with
a Spanish “j,” which sounds like an “h.”

JALO ditfers ﬁom ordinary web portals
in that it is aimed at college students and
provides a wide range of entertaining and
useﬁrl web links to meet their needs.

- “We distilled from the Internet what
we thought to be sites that college stu-
dents would use most,” said Kyle
Halliday, Executive Vice President and
junior at the University of Virginia.

The prototype for JALO was devel-
oped by Washington and Lee Univer-
sity junior Brian Crews earlier this year.

“It was hard work, but we got a product '

out that we are proud of,” Crews said.
JALO is deﬁnitely something which
should inspire pride in its creators. The
site provides links on a mixture of perti-
nent topics from news and sports to
music and fashion to alcohol and sex.
Students will ﬁnd an extensive
intemet research directory with links
to reference materials, writing tools, pe-
riodicals, and links according to col-
lege majors. The site’s less serious side
includes “cool links” such as the “Cem-

.etery of Rock,” the “World’s Largest

 

“My body is Y2K compatible...
How about yours?”

FOR A EIGI-I

0 AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

o 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK 0 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 0
BODY MASTERS EQUIPMENT o HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIP-
MENT o 22 PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT o PRO
SHOP o TANNING SPECIALS o LOCKERS o SHOWERS
1 call 464-9060 now for club tour!

STUDENT SPECIAL
$ 18 9 PA

-OR_

$29 PER MONTH
:T MONTHS!

Omega
$711/12 ess
Gen/er

IN FULL

1

Roadside Attractions” and the “Mail
Order Bride Warehouse.”

So whatever aspect of university life
you need to explore, go no further than
the closest computer. JALO’s site,
www.jalo.com, will be sure to provide
you with a myriad of useful and just
plain fun web links.

_ V12,

4 :00:p.m.

SIGNATURE STUDENT:

%//6

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

On a campus where physical di-
versity is sometimes barely

W3’

Why did you decide to come to
W&L?
“I’ve got a few older friends up

here. Every time I came up here I met .

more and more people.”

existent, it’s hard not to no-
tice Will Coffman. Coffman,
from Lexington, Kentucky,
has been wheelchair-
bound since a car accident
during his Sophomore year
in high school.

Coffman has experi-
enced a few roadblocks on
this 250-year-old campus.
The primary obstacle, he
noted, is the Co-op. “I
think they’re going to put
a ramp up for next year,” he
said.

These difﬁculties do not
extend into his leadership
capabilities. Cofﬁnan has re-
cently been elected fresh-
man representative to the Executive
Committee. “I think the honor sys-
tem is awesome. It’s the thing that
makes the school. It makes it feel
like a different world since you can
leave your laptop somewhere and
no one will take it,” Coffman said.

“I’m interested in going to law
school, and it is a position of au-
thority,” Cofﬁnan said in response
to why he ran

He is extremely excited about
the turnout for the election. “Our
class is one to speak up, evident in
that twice the amount of people
voted in the election than usual.
They want to get involved.”

K‘ \ 5 ‘    I’
Freshman Will Coffman was

recently elected EC representa-
tive for the Class of 2003.

professional hockey game.”

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

What do you like to do in your
spare time?

“I like to watch sports and relax.”

What is your favorite D-hall food?

“Scrambled eggs. I have an eight
o’clock class and go to breakfast ev-
ery morning and have scrambled
eggs.”

Ifthe world ended tomorrow, what
would you do?

“Go home because there are
people I want to see. Probably see a

Why do you think the class of ‘03
rocks?

“We have more people than any
other class. We have the best and
most involved students.”

...upcomin9  events.     

Tuesday, October 12 ‘ by .
I . ‘ Memorial service. for the 129th
I sary of the Lee’S death. Lee‘ 4 ,
AED Health Professions Serninar:%{‘Os .
“ teopathic Medical School Admissions,”
» Shannon Warren, adrnissions,}West Vir
jginia School of ‘Osteopathic  9
Room 3 I6, VMI New Science Bu g.
Writers Harvest. Annual beneﬁt read-
ing for Share Our‘Strength,‘a,iiation 9
organization working to relie ‘ "
.. Northen {’¥‘.1£1.i.?9Ei.m¥i-... A A

Wednesday, October 13, A V ,
Soccer  W&L vs. Lynchburg
College. Liberty Hall F ield.» -

Pei} 9’

.w&r; vsLGoucherCol-I

,&Livs.  College
-LibeT‘Y1f.*#]1..1,i_Fi°3d- .

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie."

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

 

 

PAGE 4

 RT s

OCTOBER 1 1, 1999

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Women’s Soccer is now 7-1
in the ODAC, thanks to a 2-0 victory over Bridgewater
College on Saturday.

Junior midﬁelder Lindsay Williams got the Generals (8-
4, 7-1 ODAC) on the scoreboard ﬁrst off an assist from
sophomore midﬁelder Drew Powers. The game remained 1-
0 until senior Stephanie McKnight, after playing 30 min-
utes in goal, scored off an assist from junior Courtney
Nolan with only 1:30 left in the game.

McKnight, junior Lauren Harris, and sophomore Kate
Mobley shared the shutout in goal for the Generals.

W&L outshot the Eagles by a count of 25-4_on the match.

The Generals did not fare as well Wednesday when they
faced Roanoke. W&L suffered its ﬁrst ODAC loss of the

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
MAN ON THE RUN: Senior QB Christian Batcheller runs one in during Saturday’s loss to Davidson.

Women’s soccer gets marooned

season to the Maroones by a score of 3-1. Roanoke still
holds the top spot in the ODAC.

Junior captain Shana Levine scored the only Generals’
goal just 2:59 into the match when she knocked in a free
kick from 35 yards out.

Though W&L took the 1-0 lead into halftime, the Ma-
roons jumped out quickly in the second, scoring three goals
within the first 12 minutes of the half. For the game, the
Generals outshot Roanoke by a count of 23-8.

“During the first half of the Roanoke game we played
probably the best we have all season,” said Levine. “In the
second half we just let our game down and everything
kinda fell apart for us. We’ 11 be ready for them in the ODAC
tournament. We really want to beat them and win.”

For its next game, W&L will host conference leading
Lynchburg College on Wednesday, October 13. Garnetirne
is set for 4 p.m.

   

llllllﬂllll

( 143/’ (:<’ .(/Ijmm‘///(Iy ();I.

FRESH EACH MORNING
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ° FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON - 464-6586

    

Q ‘IJJI-[l.),lI_

3%

2/  Z(2)a.r51'z2g/012 CS/reel’
790. 750x [490
gexirzy/012, v1'1'g1°T21'a 244.50

Ya/ares/ed 1'12 1°eCe1'01'12y a1°1][a1°e a120/ CS/Orzkzy
93’z»aa/.1 apa/a/as 5y e—ma1f? cSeaa/ a message /a
£7.z~aae/ Q/a/Jazz/ad d/.'

/1~aaa/@1-ocA6,~,°o/aa_ae/

(540) 463-7174
ﬂax; (540) 463~7647

Generals blow

By Mike Weil

STA FF WRITER

For the second straight week, the Washington and Lee
football team put up gigantic offensive numbers. For the
second straight week, senior quarterback Christian Batcheller
put up a record-breaking performance. And for the second
straight week the Generals notched yet another game in the
loss column, this time falling to Davidson College, 35-28.

The Generals jumped out to an early 14-0 lead in the first
quarter on seven and 28-yard touchdown runs by freshman
tailback Chris Sullivan. Davidson responded in the second
quarter with two straight touchdowns of their own, with the
game-tying touchdown coming off of a blocked punt re-
turned 29 yards into the endzone.

W&L would then retaliate with an 18-yard quarterback
sneak by Batcheller on fourth and one with 2:03 remaining in
the half. The Generals defense, however, was unable to stop
Davidson’s two-minute drill, as the Wildcats marched 62
yards on nine plays eating up 1 :37 off the clock. This shifted
the momentum back to Davidson as the two squads ended
the half tied at 2 1.

The Wildcats continued the scoring just 43 seconds into
the second half as quarterback Shaun Tyrance found re-
ceiver Roland Williams for a 62-yard touchdown pass giv-
ing Davidson a 28-21 lead. This seesaw battle continued
with 8:06 left in the third when senior running back Scott

Soccer on a run

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

W&L’s men’s soccer team kept their streak of ODAC victo-
ries going this week, defeating Roanoke and Emory & Hemy
on Wednesday and Friday, respectively, to improve their record
to 4-5 overall and 3-2 in the ODAC.

The Generals started the week off well with a phenomenal
performance against arch rival Roanoke, defeating the Ma-
roons 5-2. W&L got on the board quickly when sophomore
Andrew Grimes scored the first of his three goals only 36
seconds into the game. Roanoke tied the score 17 minutes
later but the Generals would go on to dominate.

Grimes netted his second goal 6:50 into the second half,
and senior Jamie Parker quickly followed suit on a penalty
kick. Grimes then would go on to complete his hat trick before
freshman Kevin Bibona added another goal for the Generals.

“It was probably our biggest win of the season,” senior
captain Scott LeToumeau said, adding that “it was great to get
a win over such a big rival, especially by such a large margin.”

The Generals kept their winning streak alive Friday defeat-
ing the oveimatched Wasps of Emory & Henry 2-1 behind
goals from senior Jason Miller and Grimes.

The Generals have two matches this week at home, Thurs-
day against Eastern Mennonite and Saturday versus Goucher.

lead. . . again

Moses dove into the endzone from a yard out to tie the
game for W&L, but these were the last points the Generals
would put on the board. Davidson scored the garne-wiri-
ning touchdown late in the third quarter on a 29-yard touch-
down strike from Tyrance to wide receiver Mike Chase, thus
ending another high-scoring aﬁair, 35-28.

Batcheller set two more records this week, once again
helping to take a little focus away from the negative as-
pects of being 1-4. The senior signal-caller broke Brooke
F ischer’s record for career passing yards with 5,030, and
total offense with 5,282.

When asked to comment on another excellent perfor-
mance by the Generals, senior Mike Moore responded, “It’s
hard to sit here and talk like a meat-head when you loose.”

The Generals hope to be able to talk like meat-heads after
they visit Hampden-Sydney on Saturday at 1:00.

V-ball 7 -0 ODAC

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

W&L volleyball started off the week with a sound thump-
ing of ODAC opponent Sweet Briar on Tuesday, sending the
Vixens home after limiting them to a total of nine points (15-4,
15-3, 15-2). The Generals were led by sophomore middle
blocker Lindsay Ruckert who tallied ﬁve kills, ﬁve digs and

four aces. Senior outside hitter Nancy Reinhart added four
kills, four aces, and six digs, while junior outside hitter Tori
Hays came up with ten digs. Junior setter Pam Salsbury led
all setters with 13 set assists.

On Fridaygcthe Generals faced stiffer competition with
Greensboro College, who at seventh, ranks one seed above
W&L. The Generals fell shy of pulling off the big win, taking
the match to ﬁve games before falling ( 16-14, 3-15, 16- 14, 4-
15, 7-15). The Generals put up a strong ﬁght, with Ruckert
amassing 21 kills and 10 digs. Reinhart knocked down twelve
kills and salvaged 14 digs, setting a new ODAC record for
career digs with a total of 1305.

“We had our chances,” sophomore outside hitter Lee
Charbonet said, “they just capitalized on our mistakes.”

The Generals took Greensboro to extra points twice, pull-
ing out the win both times, but struggled to score in two
games. ‘‘It was sort of a wake up call, we need to concentrate
on every game,” Charbonet remarked. The Generals will get
two more shots at Greensboro, playing them in the Emory
Tournament and at home in the W&L tri-match October 23.

The week wasn’t over for the Generals, who stayed in
Greensboro for another match, this time against conference

. opponent Guilford on Saturday. After dropping the first game,

W&L fought back to beat the Quakers in four games (13-15,
15-4, 15-12, 15-7). Leading the way for the Generals attack
were once again Ruckert and Reinhart.

The Generals now stand at 13-3 overall and 7-0 in the
ODAC, where they rank first. Their next contest will be Fri-
day when they travel to Atlanta for the Emory Tournament.

AT TIAA-CREF,
LOW EXPENSES ARE
A HIGH PRIORITY.

All ﬁnancial companies charge
operating fees and expenses —
some more than others. Of course, the
lower the expenses you pay, the better.
That way, more of your money goes

where it should - toward building a

comfortable future.-

As the largest retirement system in
the world,1 we have among the lowest
expenses in the insurance and mutual

fund industries.2

In fact, TIAA-CREFS 0.35% average
fund expenses are a fraction of the
expense charges of comparable funds.3

It's one reason why Morningstar says,

“TIA/\—CREF sets the standard in the

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

ﬁnancial services industry."

A focus on your future
Of course, expenses are only one factor
to consider when you make an invest-
ment decision. Morningstar also noted
our commitment to "consumer education,
service" and “solid investment perfor-
mance." Because that can make a differ-

ence in the long run, too.

At TIA/\—CREF, we believe people
would like to spend more in retirement.
not on their retirement company. Today,
over two million people count on that
approach to help them build ﬁnancial

security. 30 can you.

To ﬁnd out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

www.tiaa-crcf.org

1 Baud on $250 billion in assets under managt-ment. 2 5I&uI1aIIi& Pwrslmaimmr RallrgAnaIysis, I.99.9,‘and Lippvr Analytical Services, lnc., Lipper-Dlrrcrasv/4IIaIylkaIDaIa /.999
(quarterly). 3Mum/n/;.slar I41:-i.2nI(-AnIiIIiII‘:.\*/I.i/r, 6/30/I999. Of the 6.332 variable annuities ll'IM.‘k(‘d by Mnrningstar. the average fund had total foes combining annual expenses of 0.84%
plus an ivlsurance expense of 1.26%. TIAA-CREF cxpciises are subju-t to change and am not guaranteed for the future. Past pcrfnrrnant-o is no guarantm nr future multt. TIAA-CREF
Individual and lnsllluliimal Services distributes CREF t'L‘rlil'ICalL*1 and sntomts in the TIAA Real Estate Account. For more tomplolc information. including charges and expenses. can
1 800 8422775. extensiuit 5509. For pnispcvtuses. Read them carefully before you invest or send money.

8/99

 

You’re about to graduate.

You’ve i sopent years rising tointellectuaI ch
pulling all-nighters,“ meeting impossib

Now you can Ian
you’ll beph

Issued by Credit Suisse First Boston (Europe) Limited: regulated by SFA.

PAGE 6

L:
.se§€j_s_
$259.
0 LN
o°o
zées
oese

04-»

LAST WORD

OCTOBER 11, 1999

In defense of bigotry and homophobia

By Kevin McManemin

20% WORSE THAN LAST WEEK ’sf

I’m sorry for misleading you there;
this article isn’t quite a defense of big-

Votry. Catchy little headline, though,
‘wasn’t it? Really catches the eye, eh?

But this article is about bigotry, and
about the new liberal academic method
of dealing with it — a method that rea-

I sonable people should ﬁnd disturb-

ing at least and disgusting at best. Yes,
it’s the P.C. belief that intolerance is
such a vile threat to campus life that
the only way to combat it is with —
you guessed it —— more intolerance.
This zero-tolerance-for-intolerance
policy has reared its oxymoronic little
head on our fair, be-columned campus
in a couple of recent events. What do
we do when a student makes fun of

our gay EC president on WLUR?
Why, we yank his show off the air
faster than they cancelled “The Chevy
Chase Show” and silence him, of
course! And what if some fratboy
made an ass of himself spewing racist
and anti-Semitic comments to a fresh-
man who summarily ran home crying
to mommy? We scramble to find a fit-
ting combination of suspensions and
probations to punish him.

Our answer to combating prejudice
is to punish those who don’t agree
with the ruling cagnoscenti like a
bunch of naughty children. We treat a
complex social problem as if it were as
simple as a four-year—old caught with
his hands in the cookie jar.

Don’t get me wrong; I’m not sug-
gesting we take a big happy “let’s hug
the bigots” stance. Anyone who still

judges others by race, ethnicity or
sexual preference is, quite simply, a
drooling, troglodytic half-wit, hardly
worthy of our respect.

But, damn it, this is America—— the
land of drooling, troglodytic half—witsl
And the one thing that binds all Ameri-
cans, besides an abiding love for Wal-
Mart’s low, low prices, is the belief in
the liberty of individual thought.

At least it used to be, back before
academia deemed liberty an arcane
phallocentric concept (or even worse:
“Eurocentric!”). In most history
classes today, The Bill of Rights has
probably been replaced with an eco-
feminist, Afro-centric, neo-Marxist
policy statement. James Madison and
bell hooks are duking it out for spots
on cramped curricula across the coun-
try and, tragically, it’s not looking

good for ol’ Jimmy.

And now it looks like this trend is
finally hitting W&L, which much like
Lexington’s lovely State Theater, al-
ways seems to get things about eight
years after they hit it big in the rest of
civilization.

So the main question here is: do
we, as Americans, have a right to back-
ward thought? And the answer is, of
course, “well, if we ain’t jailing the
Amish, I guess we do.” But here at
Washington and Lee University, we
apparently only have the right to agree
with the administration’s politics.
Never mind that a sizable portion of
this country believes that homosexu-
ality is utterly morally reprehensible
—— we clearly know better than them,
and if you don’t toe the party line with
your beliefs, you’ll be punished for

Tell a psychic friend to go see

“The Sixth Sense

By Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

This isn’t going to be so much a
movie review as a commercial. I have
no stake in the movie, other than the
fact that it was shot in Philadelphia,
but I always support worthy causes.
Most of you have already seen “The
Sixth Sense.” If you haven’t, why the
hell are you reading this! Put down
the newspaper, drop what you are do-
ing and get over the movies, you silly
bastard. Now!

“The Sixth Sense” is one of the
greatest movies ever made. Not only
is the plot stunning and captivating,
but it offers perhaps the most intrigu-
ing twist ending in film history. M.
Night Shyamalan wrote and directed

 

 

01999 The Coca-Cola Company. ‘Noun’ in I registered trndsmalk licensed to Coca-Cola Nulla Rclroahmonla Compnny, USA.

 

this fabulous ﬁlm, and deserves more
accolades than David E. Kelley and
his lawyer crap. Plus, for once, the
acting is magnificent. Bruce Willis
delivers a top-notch performance as
expected. However, even he can’t out-
shine Haley Joel Osment. This kid had

els like a Shakespearean plot. Yeah, you
know what happens, but it’s like being
in on a wonderful secret. It just in-
creases the overall entertainment
value.

Look, a bunch of people went to
see “Titanic” a billion times, and that

Oscar, or I’m per-
s o n a l l y
ﬂrebombing the

better win the

3.

left nut. If you paid
more than three
times to see that

_ movie sucked my

entire god damn
movie Academy.

The purpose
of this review
isn’t so much to convince you to see
the movie, but to go see it again. “The
Sixth Sense” deserves a second view-
ing, and a third, and a fourth. It just
keeps getting better. The story unrav-

FREE. Offer expires 11/15/99.

(WORTH THE FULL PRICE
OFADMISSION)

Now might be a good time to grab a COOL from Nestea at
the Convenience Store, 1350 Miller Dr. N Gar Hurricane Ct.
Better still, use this coupon to buy one 2002 and get one

movie, I curse you
with flaming syphi-
litic warts on your
genitals that even
Valtrex can’t hope to cure. May your
children and your children’s children
suffer for your unspeakable act.

This movie actually lives up to the
hype. It makes “Blair Witch Project”

9 9 Good news: Hollywood still producing
great post-“Blair Witch” horror ﬂicks

look like a bunch of drunk college kids
running around the woods with a
camcorder. This movie will give you
chills. “Some lady died in that acci-
dent up there.”

“Can you see, honey? Where is
she?”

“Standing next to my window.” Oh
my God! This movie will do for
goosebumps what Psycho did for
showers. You will leave the theatre feel-
ing like you got your money’s worth.

So go, now, to see “The Sixth
Sense.” It’s not like there’s anything
better in the movies. What else are you
going to go see? “For Love of the
Game?” “Mystery, Alaska?” lfl
wanted to see old people playing pro-
fessional sports, I’d watch WCW
wrestling.

them.

Now, thanks to great advances in
modern newspaper technology, I’m
able to tell what most of you are think-
ing at this very moment. And frankly
I’m disgusted and think it would work
just as well without the harness. But
the other thing you’re thinking is,
“Gee, Kevo, you’ve really missed the
mark on this issue. We’re not punish-
ing the bigots for their beliefs, we’re
punishing them for their actions. Their
words were hurtful to other people, and
that’s wrong.”

Well that’s actually a pretty good
argument, except for the fact that in
order to make it you have to ignore a
rather glaring double standard. If it’s
really about the action and not the
thought, then Dean Howison would
have to suspend everybody who’s
ever said hurtful or nasty things.
Classes would be as barren as a meet-
ing of the Mississippi MENSA chap-
ter. The only reason these stories
showed up on the Phi and Trident ’s
news radars in the first place is not
because someone said something
mean, but because someone said some-
thing mean and politically incorrect.

The fact is that if Rich Groner had
made fun of Jeff Cook for anything
else, we never would have heard a
thing about it. He only got in trouble

Complaint letter count

<1>

Huzzah! Now we're roll-
ing!

Insulted this week:

— I think the headline
rather speaks for itself.
Pretty much any compas-
sionate, good, kind-hearted
person should end up upset.

because he blasted Cook on an issue '

that triggers knee-jerk reactions from
thin-skinned, bleeding-heart losers.
The Thought Police decided that no,
Mr. Groner, you are not entitled to
voice your opinions on that matter.
Saying that Jeff Cook is a sucky presi-
dent or calling him cocky would be
hurtful but perfectly OK, but mix and
match a little and suddenly Chairman
Mao is prodding you in the back with
a bayonet.

Bottom line: bigotry of any kind is
entirely morally and philosophically
indefensible, right? So why are we
afraid to let the bigots talk? The only
truth that will come out of their mouths
will be the truth of their own feeble-
minded imbecility.

 

Kindly make way for W&L’s new Thought Police, racing to
save us from ourselves. image counesy of www.spunk.org

 

 

Carson Chambers

 

Jessica Morton

 

Caroline Sozzi

KD congratulates. . .

Homecoming nominees

 

Kelly Sewell

 

Julie Horowitz

White Book Review Committee

President of the Class of 2002

 

 

Kelly Sewell

 

Jen Davis

Stacy McLaughlin
/-I  

 

 

it

7‘

)8

L.

Ultra ﬂing-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

VOLUME 102, No.11

Student body
plagued by ﬂu

Stress, midterms add up to health problems

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Junior Rachel Bowes went to Chi-
cago for reading days and came back
with more than a few souvenirs.

“I feel a little stuffy,” Bowes said.
“It feels like the precursor to a cold. I
think I brought it back with me from
Chicago.”

Bowes is not alone on campus.
Several students have been suffering
from respiratory illnesses in the past
month, and exposure to viruses dur-
ing last week’s vacation may be an-
other factor contributing to their hold
at Washington and Lee.

Student Health Director Jane
Horton said her ofﬁce has seen plenty
of students.

“We’ve already had a busy start to
the year,” Horton said. “We’re seeing
more students with respiratory ill-
nesses, especially in the last two weeks
or so.”

Horton said the Student Health
Center had more than thirteen hundred
visits in September, when the monthly
average is 900. Horton said some of
those visits were simply to update
records, but the usual cycle of respi-
ratory illness has begun. Horton said
stress from midterm studies can con-
tribute to a lot of these illnesses.

“I wouldn’t say we have an epi-
demic on our hands,” Horton said,
“but we have a lot of sick people who
are pretty miserable.”

Geology professor Chris Connors
noticed the onset of illness in his lab
class Tuesday.

“I noticed some students cough-
ing and sneezing,” said Connors. “A
lot of students seemed to be con-
gested in class.”

Connors said despite his students’
symptoms, most are still coming to class.

Jefferson

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

Put the emergency room feeling of
urgency and dedication into a room full
of computers in Tucker Hall, and you’ ve
got University Computing when the
Jefferson server crashes.

A similar scenario played out
Wednesday afternoon in the control
room of University Computing. System
and Network Specialist Jeff Knudson
was describing the server problems
when the screen ﬁoze. Knudson irnme—
diately stopped talking, wheeled his
chair over to the computer, and franti-
cally tapped the keyboard a couple of
times. He picked up the phone, dialed
into phone mail, and updated the Server
Status hotline; he also paged all Univer-
sity Computing employees, alerting them

“I’m not sure if that’s good or bad,”
Connors said.

Indeed, life at Washington and Lee
may make students sick in the first
place. Balancing the “work hard, play
hard” philosophy leaves students
with plenty of responsibilities and time
constraints.

Horton said illness strikes students
more often when they are stressed
about academic work and don’t get
enough sleep. For that reason, stu-
dents usually fall ill in the time period
around midterm exams.

A lot of interaction with people at
parties and around campus can also
make students more susceptible to ill-
ness. This interaction exposes stu-
dents to viruses and bacteria carried
by their peers.

When students do get sick, they
can be more prone to other illnesses
as well.

“People getting sick and getting run
down may make them more suscep-
tible to the other bugs ﬂoating around,
not just one thing that’s going
around,” Horton said. “There are lots
of different varieties of these viruses.”

If you’re already sick, Horton rec-
ommends several actions to help you
get better faster and avoid other in-
fections. You must get adequate sleep,
at least seven to eight hours, every
night. Additionally, you should drink
plenty of non—caffeinated liquids like
fruit juices and take multivitamin
supplements to ensure the right nutri-

, ents for your body.

Horton said the two most impor-
tant steps for prevention are frequent
hand washing and avoiding primary
or second-hand tobacco smoke.

Hand washing removes any organ-
isms that you might have picked up
using the same phone and keyboards
as people already infected. Horton said

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1999

Mock Con-cert
to be Keen

By Michael Crittenden

News EDITOR

great.”

quite a couple at the Habitat Barndance Friday.

MP3’s too much fun to be legal

some organisms can stay on hard, dry
surfaces for days. You want to pay
speciﬁ_g,,attenti_on to your hands be-
cause actions like rubbing your nose
or eyes are some of the most common
ways for those organisms to enter your
respiratory tract.

Primary and second-hand smoke
damages the cilia, tiny hairs that coat

SEE ‘FLU’ ON PAGE 2

still bafﬂes experts

of the situation. The system is even set
up so that when a system crashes, a mes-
sage is automatically sent to the pagers,
so if the system crashes after ofﬁce
hours, the situation can be remedied by
remote. At this point, however, all
Knudson could do was wait the six min-
utes it takes for the server to reboot and
reload.

The emergency had been taken care
of. Somewhere, in a not-so—distant com-
puter lab, someone’s paper could now
be printed out, and another student
could log in so he could check his e-
mail.

A few weeks ago, this situation
would have caused mass panic within
the student body because Jefferson
used to hold all of the student home di-
rectories. When Jefferson locked up, stu-
dents could not access their home drive.

Files were lost, programs wouldn’t run,
and the system simply wouldn’t work.

Over Reading Days, University Com-
puting transferred the student home di-
rectories onto the Lee server. The
Jefferson server is no longer used for
anything but printing queues and con-
trolling the desktops of computer labs.
This means that when the Jefferson
server crashes now, students are still
able to use the network, although the
lab printers will not work for a few min-
utes and students may have trouble log-
ging into the Novell account. The Lee
server has been running almost a week
and has not yet locked up at all.

Yet, adding to University
Computing’s worries, the Madison
server, which holds all the faculty direc-

SEE ‘J EEFERSON’ ON PAGE 2

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

HAVE YOU BEEN DRINKING? Officer F.W. Clarke administers a Breathalyzer test to participants of
the Controlled Drinking Experiment. Participants were cut off when their B.A.C. reached 0.1.

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

“I don’t think I know anyone who
doesn’t have any MP3s on their com-
puter.”

Washington and Lee sophomore
Brad Battista has over 900 MP3s on his
personal computer. Found on sites all
over the Internet, MP3s ﬁles of re-
corded music that can be downloaded
onto personal computers to make col-
lections of songs, much like an elec-
tronic mixed tape. These music ﬁles are
individual songs which take up about
three to ﬁve megabytes of space on
the computer. Some sites, like MP3.com,
provide users with legally recorded
MP3s, which are allowed to be distrib-
uted.

However, many MP3s are recorded
by private individuals, without permis-
sion from the musician or the recording
company, and those ﬁles are in viola-
tion of federal copyright law. The real
problem is when the MP3s that were
recorded without permission are dis-
tributed to a mass audience. Accord-
ing to the Digital Millennium Copyright
Act (DMCA), which President Bill
Clinton signed into law 1998, the net-
work provider is required to remove or
block the materials copied without per-
mission once the service provider has
been notiﬁed of the problem.

Despite the DCMA, people across
the nation gather and distribute MP3s
for entertainment. The trend is preva-
lent on college campuses because the
on-carnpus networks have the capac-
ity for high-speed ﬁle sharing.

‘‘It was the thing to do freshman year
because it was so new, it was so cool,”
Battista said.

Thedemand has made the problem
of MP3s spread faster than can be cur-
rently controlled. As Network and Sys-
tems Specialist John Knudson said, the
problem isn’t simply the MP3s.

“MP3s by nature are not bad. Not all
MP3s are illegal. However, this is a situ-
ation of technology getting ahead of
policy,” Knudson said. The University
Computing and Network Use Policy is
not explicit in regards to MP3s, it only
agrees to follow and enforce federal, state
and local laws concerning copyrights.

Recently a student had a large col-
lection of MP3s on the network, and
was giving out his IP address as an
FTP site. Users from all over the nation
were using this student’s site to down-
load MP3s. Certain recording compa-

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
“SK1P To M’LoU MY DARLIN’.” Seniors Ben Thompson and Katie Hudson make

 

Keen to follow.

nies found out about this, and sent let-
ters to University Computing asking for
the site to be shut down. Van
Assendelft shut down the site and
spoke to the student.

Many students simply share their
collections ofMP3s through their own
computer. However, this is not an ac-
tive distribution of the materials to a
mass audience. The real problem is
when students have distributed MP3s
through the Shared folder on K: drive
by setting up a folder and then upload-
ing their personal collections. Because
the ﬁles are uploaded anonymously,
there is no way to track down the stu-
dent who puts the MP3s in the Shared
folder. Twice last year the network
server actually crashed because some-
body ﬁlled the K: drive with MP3s.
More than one gigabyte of space was
used. This year, van Assendelft has
already deleted one-and-a-half
gigabytes ofMP3s off the K: drive. Fur-
thermore, this year’s frequent server
lock-ups cause even more concern.

“We are supersensitive to anything
that aggravates the network, seeing the
server situation lately,” van Assendelft
said. “Iwill delete them if Irun across
them in the Shared folder.”

While University Computing will
remove the ﬁles and talk with the stu-
dent if he or she can be found, the pun-
ishment for violating W&L’s Comput-
ing and Network policy is not outlined
within the policy.

“We have not aggressively gone
after students [who violated policy],”
van Assendelft said. “Generally after

Washington and Lee students have to ﬁnd their cow-
boy hats and blue jeans for the November 6th Robert
Earl Keen concert in the pavillion.

The concert, part ofthe festivities of Mock Conven-
tion Gala weekend, will feature the country singer from
Texas. According to SAB President Dave Levinson, the
group is sure the concert will sell out quickly when
tickets go on sale November 1.

“Without a doubt this show will sell out,” Levinson
said. “We wanted a band with wide student body ap-
peal, and I think we got one.”

Student reaction to the concert announcement has
been fairly positive. Freshman Van Taylor said he is
calling people from home to come to the show.

“I can’t think ofa better person to get for a show,”
Taylor said. “I have already called some friends who
are going to come up for the show. It’s going to be

Junior Etan Levine agreed with Taylor, saying he
hasn’t always been a Robert Earl Keen fan, but that it
“grows on you”.

“I hadn’t heard ofhim until I came to school here,”
Levine said. “My roommate is from Texas and he plays
it all the time, so I guess I havejust learned to like it.”

Tickets for the show go on sale November 1 in front
ofthe Co-op from 1 1-3, with student tickets costing $12
and for the general public $18. Levinson said students
shouldn’t wait until the last minute to get their tickets.

“We deﬁnitely encourage W&L students to buy their
tickets early, because there is no limit to the number of
tickets a person can buy,” Levinson said. “The inter-
est at W&L and in the local community should make
ticket sales brisk.” _

The concert will take place the Saturday of Mock
Convention Gala weekend. Doors will open at 8 p.m.
with an opening band starting at nine, and Robert Earl

we point out to somebody that they’re
breaking the rules, the problems stops.
A lot of times the student in question
didn’t know he was breaking a rule.”

However, if a student were to repeat-
edly violate network policy, after being
warned, Assendelft said that Univer-
sity Computing would suspend that
student’s network account. The student
would not be able to access anything
on the W&L network.

The punishment under federal law
is not as lenient in comparison. Last
spring, a University of Oregon student
was convicted on charges of illegally
distributing copyrighted material. A
fonner student set up a site on the Uni-

versity of Oregon computing network ’

making MP3s available for distribution.
State officials noticed an unusually
large amount of trafﬁc on the univer-
sity network. The student now faces
up to three years in prison and $250,000
in ﬁnes for breaking federal copyright
laws.

Despite the serious consequences,
students still question whether or not
the distribution of MP3s is really a
crime. Battista said that the situation
poses an interesting question: “Is an
MP3 more like stealing a CD from a store
or copying a tape from a friend?” While
he would not elaborate further, Battista
said that if it was like stealing from a
store, W&L’s Honor System would be
overwhelmed.

“The whole school would get kicked
out because most people would be
guilty of MP3 possession and distri-
bution,” Battista said.

October 25, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:
All Hallows Eve

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:
The price of smoking

Elly: ﬁling-tum lﬂlri

Can’t squeeze the Leybum Charmin’

Football wins second straight

PAGE 3

PAGE 4
PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

 

F _ ' @112 iﬂing-tum ﬂirts

OCTOBER 25, 1999 '

‘FLU’ from page 1

the respiratory tract, to the point that they cannot move
the thin layer of mucus that traps foreign materials in the
air you breathe. So bacteria, viruses and pollen rest in your
lungs and increase your susceptibility to colds and aller-
gies.

Another preventive tool in your ﬁght against illness is
the ﬂu shot. Horton said ﬂu shots are the best way to pre-
vent inﬂuenza, a speciﬁc viral cause of respiratory illness.
The ﬂu tends to be more severe than the common cold and
infects people in outbreaks. Horton said the ﬂu usually ap-
pears on campus “anywhere from December to March.”

“Last year we saw quite a bit of [the ﬂu] right around
final exams of fall term in December,” Horton said. “A lot of
people were very miserable as they were trying to finish up
their work.”

Horton said ﬂu shots are about 85 percent effective in
preventing illness from the viral strains included in the
vaccine. Viral protection starts two weeks after the shot
and lasts six months. Flu shots are available 24 hours a day

‘JEFFERSON’ from page 1

in the Student Health Center for $5. Horton was quick to
point out that students shouldn’t dismiss the shot if people
around them are already getting sick.

“It’s never too late to take [the ﬂu shot] and ﬁght any
infection immediately.”

Contrary to popular belief, Horton said ﬂu shots don’t
give you the ﬂu in any form. Most people get only a sore
arm from the shot.

Remedies like ﬂu shots are coming too late for W&L
students like freshman Will Teichman. Teichman had an
unidentiﬁed respiratory illness several weeks ago and be-
gan taking antibiotics. When he started feeling better he
stopped taking the antibiotics and got a sinus infection
last week that hasn’t gone away. Teichman said his illness
has led to a stressful last couple of weeks, especially in his
academic life.

“It’s hard to function when you’re sick,” Teichman said.
“It puts a damper on your ability to concentrate. . . [when]
you can’t keep your head upright while you study.”

tories, has been locking up in a fashion similar to Jefferson’s.
Both the Madison and Jefferson servers are on old hardware,
yet the Lee server was bought new this summer when Univer-
sity Computing upgraded the network from three servers to
13 servers. The network that previously had a four gigabyte
capacity now has 90 gigabytes.

Until Reading Days, Lee was under-utilized. University
Computing dismantled the Jefferson and Lee sewers, trans-

ferred the directories and ﬁles from Jefferson to Lee, and then
rebuilt both servers.

While problem has been remedied through by making Lee
the main server, the problem has not been solved. Even
though the reduced work load on Jefferson, the system is still
locking up frequently and without warning.

“We don’t know where the problem is,” Knudson said.
“Consultants have been here many times, and they don’t
know. No one knows!”

University Computing does know the Jefferson server is
working harder than it should be, according to the server
statistics which are continually displayed. Jefferson was not
transferring ﬁles or saving ﬁles at the speed it should have
been when the student directories were on it.

Knudson said that one pattern that University Computing
has noticed is that Jefferson tends to lock up during the first
ten minutes of the hour. To further complicate the matter, when
Jefferson locks up, there is no disk or no keyboard activity
within the control room in Tucker Hall. Usually when a server
crashes, the problem is automatically recorded in one of the
logs, but Jefferson records no errors. No warnings or error
messages come up on the screens. The server just stops.

“We are literally the last ones to see it. There are no symp-

toms, no events, no clue to even start with, when Jefferson
locks up. If we aren’t looking at the screen (for the CPU which
runs Jefferson) when it locks up, then we ﬁnd out when some-
one calls us and says ‘hey, the server is down,’” Knudson
said.

“All of the people we’ve contacted have confirmed that
we are doing everything right,” Assistant Director of Com-
puting Ruth Floyd said. “It’s a very obscure problem. We

kept hoping for a quick answer. but there is none to be found.
They are looking at the right problems, but no one is really

providing answers right now.” Knudson added that Univer-
sity Computing has talked to both the hardware and software
engineers and writers in order to ﬁgure out what the glitch is,
but none of them have seen anything like this before. The last
step University Computing took was to record a half-gigabyte
electronic image of Jefferson when it crashed, and send it to
Novell, which is the company who makes the software the
server runs on. Novell will analyze the information and pro-
vide feedback in relation to the problems with Jefferson.

“Part of the problem is the increasing complexity of the
servers,” Knudson said. “The network tree is a distributed
database. This means that instead of one database, there’s
now nine smaller databases within the larger. We are con-
stantly adding stuff to the database — new groups, users,
workstations. The database is now more spread out, it’s big'-
ger and more complex and more powerful.” This kind of com-
plexity is needed to keep up with network needs and demand.
However, Knudson said this complexity leads University Com-
puting back to where they started with the Jefferson problem.

“It is not any one problem, and it’s no one easy piece to
fix,” Knudson said.

2/  Zfjasﬂzhy/on c3/ree/
7? cf/jox /490
Bexzby/on, U1'1y1'121'a 244.50

ﬁn/ere:/ed 1'12 1°ece1'01'12y an/are d120/ Qsprfzzy
iireaé upo/a/es 6y e—maz/.9 CSe120/ a message /0
7moe/ ‘J/némzzed a/.'
/1~aue/@1«ocA6z-zo/ge_.ze/

/540] 463—7l74
5‘ax.- (540) 463-7647

3 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-1501

 

“We ’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

E-mail General Notes to ‘_

 

W&L named to Templeton Honor Roll

Washington and Lee University has been recognized
for leadership in the ﬁeld of student character develop-
ment in The Templeton Guide: Colleges that Encourage
Character Development, a guidebook released nationwide
today. Washington and Lee is one of 100 colleges and
universities nationwide named to the Templeton Honor
Roll for its comprehensive commitment and programs that
inspire students to lead ethical and civic-minded lives.

Designed for students, parents and educators who be-
lieve that character matters, The Templeton Guide con-
tains proﬁles of 405 exemplary college programs in 10 cat-
egories. W&L's Honor System was proﬁled in the aca-
demic honesy category and the schools’ Shepherd Pov-
erty Program was proﬁled in the civic education category.

“Washington and Lee's strong commitment to charac-
ter development and the strength of its program make it a
model for other colleges and universities nationwide,” said
Arthur J. Schwartz, Ed.D., director of character develop-
ment programs at the John Templeton Foundation.

“Gods and Monsters” at Troubadour
The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film ‘
Society will be the bittersweet “Gods and Monsters” (USA,
1998), directed by Bill Condon.
Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
Oct. 29 and 30, in the Troubadour Cinema, at the comer of

Main and Henry Streets. There is no charge for admission. ‘

“Gods and Monsters” is based on the novel “Father
of Frankenstein,” a speculation about the last days of
British ﬁlmmaker James Whale. The film combines the
events of Whale's ﬁnal days with ﬂashbacks to his Fran-

kenstein ﬁlms, his Hollywood heyday and more painful *

memories. Whale was gay in an era when such things
were kept quiet, and his sexual orientation frames his
personal and professional relationships. The ﬁlm won

the Oscar for best adapted screenplay. }

Career services receives Hecht’s gift
Washington and Lee University's career services de-

partment recently received a $2,500 donation from Hecht’s ;

and a matching contribution from The May Company, par-
ent company of Hechts for a total donation of $5,000. Judy '
Bamping, manager/executive recruiting and placement for
Hecht’s, made the announcement at a luncheon in Lexing-

ton earlier this month. 5-

Hecht’s recruited ﬁve W&L graduates last year and
has several senior alumni with the organization.

Photo by David Hansonl Staff Photographer
You ARE FEELING VERY SLEEPY: Sophomores Rick Schnatz and John Cimina show off their ballet
skills, after being hypnotized by Tom DeLuca.

AT TIAA-CREF,
LOW EXPENSES ARE
A HIGH PRIORITY.

All ﬁnancial companies charge
operating fees and expenses —
some more than others. Of course. the
lower the expenses you pay, the better.
That way, more of your money goes

where it should — toward building a

comfortable future.

As the largest retirement system in
the world,1 we have among the lowest
expenses in the insurance and mutual

fund industries.2

In fact, TIA/\—CREF's 0.35% average
fund expenses are a fraction of the
expense charges of comparable funds.3
It's one reason why Morningstar says,
“TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

1 Based on $250 billion in assets under managemcni. 2 SI.ml.'m1& Pwrir [rm/nmrr I?.1li:gAnaIys-ls, l.999,'and Lippcr Analytical Services, Iiw . L:p;x-r-Dimmn '.4n.ily1milD.:1u [999
(quarterly). 3Mumings!ur V.—m'.me Annuilirs/[.ife, 6/30/1999. Or the 6.332 variable annuities tracked by Morningslar, mo average fund had um: Tu-5 Cnmbilllllg annual expoilws of 0 84%
plus an insurance expense of 1.26% TIAA-CREF expenses are \ubj(‘(‘l in change and are not guaraniccd for rho fuiurc Past p1:rfurrr\ai\LCi\ nu guarainim of fuiurc rcsulls TIAA CREF
individual and insiiiulinnzil Services dislribulos CREF ccriincams and inlorvcsis in lhc TIAA Real Esme Acmum. For more complete inforrnalion. including charges and |.‘)(pt‘l|sl.“S, (‘all
l 800 8422776. oxir.-nsiim 5509. for pmspcciuscs. Road ihv.-m carefully before you lV\V(‘§l or send rnoney.

ﬁnancial services industry. "

A focus on your future
Of course, expenses are only one factor
to consider when you make an invest-
ment decision. Morningstar also noted
our commitment to “consumer education,
service" and “solid investment perfor-
mance." Because that can make a differ-

ence in the long run. too.

At TIAA—CREF, we believe people
would like to spend more in retirement,
not on their retirement company. Today,
over two million people count on that
approach to help them build ﬁnancial

security. So can you.

To find out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776
www.tiaa—cref.org

8/99

 

 

‘ CXHUBER25,l999

OFiN1oN  

PAGE3

Thankfully we have another date function coming up to
worry about getting a date to. The upcoming Mock Con-
vention Gala hearkens another round of Washington and
Lee students getting drunk the week before and randomly
asking someone who they are bound to have an awkward
time with. Maybe it’s just me, but past experience tells me
that a random hook-up, or asking a girl while you are trashed
is no way to guarantee a great time. This is not to say that
having a drink and asking someone isn’t all bad. Hell,
maybe a couple of beers in you will help you ask that girl
you really,
really like
and have
a crush on
(just don’t
let your
f r i e n d s
know who you like, because that’s how they get you).
But, as far as a random person for absolutely no reason
aside from ‘she’s hot’, is not a good idea.

What happens too often however, is that you ask
someone you think is hot that you know nothing about.
This is bad. It turns your date into a pressure-ﬁlled,
awkward situation where both parties are unsure where
they really stand with each other. This is no way to
have fun, and also leads to bad situations with people
misinterpreting signals and ruining any chance to cre-

 Backporch Balderdash

Michael Crittenden ’01

   

' ate a good friend‘ship/relationship.

Also, there are too many hassles involved in formal
functions: making sure you have the right clothes, orga-
nizing dinner plans, ironing out fraternity schedules for
cocktail parties, etc.; worrying about having to be a “good”
date shouldn’t have to be a concern. And this is always a
concern when going with that random girl.

_AVOid the meat market,
A taking a friend is more fun

For this reason, I suggest a simple solution to those
out there who are already worrying about having to go
to Chi Psi late night in order to find a date between
ﬂashes of the strobe light.

Just invite a friend. That’s right, just invite a friend. I
promise you, you will enjoy yourself a lot more. I know it
sounds like a wacky idea, but give me a chance to explain
myself. Your friends are people that you have a good time
with on a regular basis and that you enjoy the company of
(at least one would hope since you label them ‘friends’).

Friends are also more understanding when you acci-
dentally spill a drink on them, pass out at 8:30 and never
make it to the ball, or happen to disappear. Not to mention
a lot of the time they are happy if you meet someone and
decide maybe she is the person to spend most of your time
with that night.

Friends also have your best interests in mind most of the
time (unless, of course, they are trying to get you). Sure you
won’t be getting any booty and will be ﬂying solo late
night, but that is but a small price to pay. Twenty years
from now you won’t remember the random girl you took to
Mock Con Gala (of course you probably won’t remember
her the next day anyway). The people you will remember is
your friends and all of the good times you had together.

Instead of wasting your money and not having the best '

time possible because you invited a random person, just
invite a friend because they are the people that really mean
something in this world. I promise you that unless you
have a really good prospect or a steady date, you will
have a much better time with a friend.‘ It would also make
things a lot easier for the young ladies, our friends, who
may not get a date to the gala. Friends are important, so
make sure you remember that when thinking about who to
ask to Mock Con.

P%\l’\l:'.NTS
Lu ,

   

wn2i<tNt>

LETTERS To THE EDITOR

University needs to under-
stand homosexuality

Dear Editor,

As a W&L student I was often frustrated by the infuri-
ating regressiveness of a large part of the student body. It
was the sense that things were getting better that made
staying seem worthwhile. Jeff Cook’ election was a high
point, when a majority of students were willing to put aside
their personal preferences and vote for the candidate they
thought best. But as I hear of open and unacceptable at-
tacks on the EC President for entirely irrelevant issues, I
get angry, sad, and embarrassed. These stories *do"‘ get
around, and I am frequently unable to respond when people
ask me how I could have gone to a school so full of bigots.
When a student can base his campaign on a substantive
issue like “I’m not gay,” those situations become even
more awkward.

Everyone should remember that J eff has never made an
issue of his sexuality. He never hid it when running for
office, but recognized, correctly, that it was irrelevant. He
is the first to claim that he is not deﬁned by his sexuality,
and would never support special privileges for minorities
at W&L. He knows that it is not identity that matters, but
energy, commitment, and all the other qualities that make
good students and campus leaders. He has those quali-
ties, and many others as well. His extraordinary compo-
sure despite repeated insults may be the best evidence of
his exceptional character. That character, not his personal
life, which is now on display, is what makes him a great

@1112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w[u.edu
http://wl11.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

student and a fine EC President. He, perhaps more than
any other student, is an absolute gentleman and should
not be subjected to infantile attacks.

At some point the university community — students,
faculty, administration and alumni — will have to con-
sciously decide what kind of future it wants for W&L. It
can actively address the issues it faces now, or follow
Hampden-Sydney example and do nothing. If it chooses
the latter, it will lose many exceptional talents like Jeff,
many of whom now take a look and then move on. In the
end it will bring disaster to the university. Yet that seems
to be what many of the students want. It’s inexplicable and
a shame.

Sincerely,

Kristoffer Neville ‘99

Good advice for Mr. Herbert

Dear Editor,

I have a slogan Mr. Herbert may want to use in his
campaign for E.C. President: “I Believe the Bible (when it
suits me)”.

Sincerely,

David Ross Cobb ’87

Student pleads for school to
take mercy, have double-ply

Dear Editor,

I am taking time away from studying for a test, because
something in the Leybum Library bothers me quite a bit. I
have known this for quite some time, but the times that I
am upset about it, I am also quite busy. Tonight, I have
had enough.

One-ply toilet paper. No home uses it, no bathroom is
comfortable with it, but whoever makes these types of
important decisions in our school has chosen to put us
through this torture. The times in which we really suffer
from this are nights we need to be comfortable. I think we
need to raise a fuss, and get this changed.

I do not want to make a big to-do about this, and I am
not trying to be overly funny either. I know that your
newspaper is not used to people voicing genuine con-
cerns. Normally it is a place for people to get on their soap-
box and build up their egos just a little bit more. I have two
reasons for using this forum: 1) I am not sure what author-
ity is in charge of this, and 2) If I was, I would feel like an
idiot making an appointment with some suit in his office to
discuss toilet paper. Of course, having everyone read this
doesn’t seem foolish at all. Thanks.

Sincerely,

Thomas C. Field ‘O1

Discriminatory alcohol

policy needs to be reviewed

Dear Editor,

I am writing to you today regarding the gross hypoc-
risy that engulfs the university’s alcohol policy. All as-
pects of it seem to be either contradictory or discrimina-
tory.

Page 73 of the university catalog states that “ funda-
mental principle of the Washington and Lee University
Policy on Alcohol is that students are adults who are per-
sonally responsible for conforming their behavior to state
and local laws and university policy.” The fact that resi-
dent assistants are on the loose to bust independent
sophomore males and sophomore females — Greek and
non-Greek alike — seems to completely contradict this
policy of personal responsibility.

Now, let’s move on to the discriminatory nature of this
misguided policy. It seems that the university completely
discriminates against sophomore females with regard to
this policy. Sophomore males are discriminated against if
they do not join the Greek band-wagon. For some reason,
the administration completely disregards these rules for
Greek organizations, but ruthlessly enforces them for all
other freshmen and sophomores. So, independent sopho-
more males and sophomore females are not allowed to
store alcohol in their rooms. Meanwhile, the university
completely ignores such practices partaken by their Greek
sophomore male counterparts —- is this a farce or what?
The argument that fraternities are not university hous-
ing is trivial since the university owns the vast major-
ity of fraternity houses and also since all sophomores
“are required to live in university housing.”

This evidence seems to prove that the existing uni-
versity alcohol policy is totally hideous in that it is
totally discriminatory and contradictory. Since a com-
pletely dry sophomore year is quite simply not going to
happen, why can’t Washington and Lee follow the same
policy of having no rules regarding alcohol in the dorms
as some other institutions — just like what is apparently
the case at some of my friends’ universities such as
Princeton. Alternatively, why can’t the university straight-
forwardly use its official policy of making students “per-
sonally responsible” for adhering to the rules as opposed
to having resident assistants taking this responsibility
away from them. Of course, only part of the sophomore
year seems to not be trusted with having this personal
responsibility anyway.

Please note that I am by no means attempting to take
anything away from fraternities as university social life is
truly dependent upon them. I merely want there to be a
level playing field and for the university to halt the bid-

eous discriminatory policy that they inflict upon indepen-

dent sophomore males and all sophomore females.
Thanks a lot for your time. -
—-name withheld

Evolution article correction

Dear Editor,

I have been dismayed to learn that few who heard me
speak at the recent discussion of creationism and evolu-
tion understood the crucial evidence that I cited. Unfor-
tunately, Max Smith’s report on the meeting, published
on the front page of the Phi (October 1 1,1999), does little
to clarify what I said. The text that I read in my opening
statement was far more explicit than Smith’s quote and
read as follows. “New species have been observed to
arise in nature during historical time.” I then went on to
name the new plant species (Spartina anglica, Tragopogon
mirus and Tragopogon miscellus) and the progenitors
from which they arose. Next, I said, “scientists have re-
synthesized naturally occurring species from their pro-
genitors.” I gave the example of “the naturally occurring
plant, Galeopsis tetrahit, which was resynthesized from
Galeopsis speciosa and Galeopsis pubescens by
Muntzing in the 1930s.” Finally, I cited “the important
crop plant and new genus, Triticosecale, known commonly
as Triticale, which was synthesized from Triticum (wheat)
and Secale (rye) by plant geneticists.” I added, “this was
a macroevolutionary step!”

I hope your readers will ponder these quotes. They are
important claims because they provide concrete evidence
that species arise from preexisting species and that higher
taxa (e.g. genera) arise merely by an accumulation of the
same kinds of differences that distinguish species. The
technical details supporting these claims are available for
all to study in the peer reviewed research literature. I don’t
think you’ll find these data in the Bible.

Sincerely,

John S. Knox

Professor of Biology

{""‘\:.,

K.g..fiuote of the Week:

{(

There was no sleeping involved.

—— Anonymous senior girl

)7

T I Iﬂnlckm How are you dealing with midterms?

“One at a time, one at a time.”
-Geoffrey Marshall ’02

“I’m not. I’m still in denial.”

 

-Pat Lawler ’03

“Not as good as I hoped I
would — not enough sleep.’
—Charene Jones ‘O2

“Same way you deal with a
brain tumor. . . not well.”
-Sarah Pollan ’0l

3

 

 

PAGE 4

W&E

iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

IF E

OCTOBER 25, 1999

Happy 10th birthday!

Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha Theta and Kappa Kappa
Gamma celebrated their 10th year on the W&L
campus with a huge birthday bash last Saturday.

Photo courtesy of Jessica Panillo

O  :3}
,“*"*a».-.. E

.,.~ -Q)
mass.»-b~aa4»..7....'¢s.z.».»u/ms~z->.«i~.»s..»~.;-av» ->...o...,a.;v §

Photo courtesy of Jessica Pairillo

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO Us: (Above) Stephanie Leffler ’00, Stephanie Bianco ’01, Lauren
Ivanick ’01, Elizabeth Murchison ’01 and Kristi Peterson ’01 show off the delicious
birthday cakes made for each of the three sororities. “I think the birthday celebration
went really well,” Murchison said. “It gave all three sororities a chance to get together
to just have fun, put aside any differences that they might have and celebrate something
that they all have in common —— 10 years at W&L.”

HAVING A GREAT TIME: (Left) From the smiles on these Chi Omega sisters’ faces, the birthday
bash was a complete success. Sorority women munched on barbecue prepared by W&L
security officer Baner and danced to the sounds of the band BS&M while at the party.
“Everyone had so much fun,” Kappa sophomore Stephanie Sweet said. “Usually only two
sororities get together at one time, so it was great to have three this at this party.”

 

Trick or treat: spooky legends of All Hallow’s Eve

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Knock, knock, knock. “Trick or
treat!” Virtually everyone has been
on either the giving or receiving end
of this October tradition. Few,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

though, know how the holiday that
we call Halloween originated.

Most people trace Halloween’s
roots to a Druid festival of the dead
celebrated by Celtic tribes living over
2000 years ago in what today is the
United Kingdom. November 1st was
their New Year, when they had a joint
festival honoring their sun god and
Samhain, lord ofthe dead.

The Druids believed that on the
eve ofthis festival (hence our Octo-
ber 3 1 st), Samhain called together
the souls

of those
wicked
. p e o p l e
who had died in the past
year and released them
on the earth in the

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

and witches. These spirits
returned to
their old

h o m e s

a n d
demanded
entertain-

ment from those currently living
there. The people built bon-
ﬁres to guide the spirits
and made a proper greet-
ing of food and
shelter avail-
able for the
spirits so

LEXINETHN

, (5;/(;<’.(/I’cI(/.1‘//}(/y ();I.

FRESH EACH MORNING
ESPRESSO * CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COEFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET O LEXINGTON - 464-6586

forms of ghosts, spirits,‘

that they would not ruin their crops,
kill their babies or otherwise haunt
them. Some people believe that this
practice was the root of current
“trick-or-treating.” The celebration
of Samhain involved nuts, apples,
skeletons, witches, and black cats,
and was a night of the supernatural.

The Romans conquered the Dru-
ids, but they kept part of the druidic
holiday tradition alive by continuing
to pray for the dead during that time
of the year. They had a holiday in
February called Feralia to give rest
to the dead. Pope Boniface IV re-
placed the pagan festival with a
church day in May for remembering
the dead. In 834 A.D., Gregory IV
named All Saints’ Day the official
church calendar day for remember-
ing the dead, celebrated November
1st. Our current day Halloween is the
eve of All Saints’ Day: the Eve of All
Hallows, hence Halloween.

Because of the apparent link to
Druidic cultish tradition, some
groups throughout the United States
do not celebrate Halloween. Some
parents do not want their children
involved in a holiday that has dru-
idic origin and involved interaction
with evil spirits.

Other groups believe that the his-
tory indicated above is ﬂawed be-
cause the Druids had an oral tradi-
tion and did not write things down,
so any history of them was probably
written by unfriendly Romans. Oth-
ers doubt the likelihood of the blend-
ing of pagan beliefs into a Roman
holiday because the Roman culture

_ cial student newspaper.

Subscribe!

News, sports,
campus life, student
opinions, humor,
special events and

so much more!

Parents: Keep up
with all the events at
your kid’s school by
subscribing to the Ring-
tum Phi, W&L’s ofﬁ-

Send your name, ad-

dress and $30 to:

The Ring-Tum Phi
University Center Room 208
Washington & Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

was never present in Ireland, so it is
unlikely that Roman culture was in-
ﬂuenced by Irish beliefs. In addition,
many argue that whatever Halloween
once was, it is an entirely different
entity in the modern day United
States, an innocent and fun diversion
for children of all ages.

Differing views also surround the
origins of current Halloween tradi-
tions, such as trick-or-treating and
carving jack-0-lantems.

Most accounts agree that jack-0-
lantems come from the Irish. An Irish
folktale held that there was an evil
man named Jack who was constantly
being tormented by the devil. One
day, he caught the devil in a tree and
would not let him down without the
promise that he would never bother

Jack again. About a year thereafter,
Jack died. His evil life caused him to
be denied entrance to heaven, and
the devil would not even let him into
hell to spite Jack for the tree incident.
The devil threw a burning coal to
Jack, to light his way as he searched
the world for a home. Jack put the
burning coal in a turnip and used it
as a lantern to guide him on hisjour-
ney. The Irish used turnips to make
their jack-0-lantems initially, but af-
ter emigrating to America they
switched to pumpkins, which were
in much greater abundance.

Many believe that trick-or-treat-
ing originated from the old Irish peas-
ant practice of going door—to-door to
collect money and different foods in
preparation for their celebration hon-

oring St. Columb Kill. Others trace it
to an event much closer to home:
vandalism in the l920’s USA. They
say that in the l920’s vandalism in
U.S. cities got so bad that communi-
ties would host “beggar’s nights”
when children would go to shops and
private homes to get treats, thus
keeping the troublemakers away.
They hold that the phrase “trick or
treat” became common in association
with these nights.

Whatever the origin, Halloween is
still alive and thriving in the United
States today. A glimpse at Lexington
will prove this. Following the lead of
the Roanoke city council, many citi-
zens plan to host Halloween festivi-
ties around town on Saturday night
rather than on Sunday night.

 

 

rU’Pc,i  ' 7 events, _ . 4:00p.m.  Mathematics Departmentstudentre
L z (I I I  ' ° F j poi1sonsin1mmpmJectsBiyaiitAdanis
, V ' ' ~ . ~ V . " . ’01aid‘r?milieWIesi1er’00.Room6,
“ ‘ _ L V '~  Hall.
 7:30 p.m. H Film Society. “Gods andyMonsters”
. 0 . (USA, 1998),diie'aedbyBi1lCondon.
'l‘ioubadourCinema.
8:00p.m. _ Parents’  Concert. Lee
Saturday; October 30
‘ 10:00a.m. ' Student recital. duPont Auditorium.
’ 10:00a.m.- V Rockbridgei SPCA bake sale at
. 1:00 pm. 0 Kroger’s. ’ S
' 11530 a.m.; Report to parents. President John
, _ .  P _. Eirod. Leechapel.
F l S‘  12-1:20 p.m. Parents Weekend luncheon. Front
Monday, October 25 . —  » \ F Lawn
.7-9:00 p-m- MockC°nVénﬁ0n.Dé1egateFairé 12:30 p.m. yoneybaii. W&L vs.Randolph—Ma-
A ’  Gym , ’ con. Warner Center.
- 8:00 p;-m-. Theatwseries. “Anns andthe Man”by 1:00 p.m. Football. W&L vs_.Bi1'dgewaterCol
D Ge0rgeBemaniShaw.I>irectedbyAl lege. Wilson Field. .
Gordon. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center. ‘ V 1:99 pm, swimming(M&w)_w&L vs_
« _ 3 g . " * MarymountUniversity. Twombly
‘ Tuesday, October 26 1. . '1S’°°;-e B A _ . _ . f
7-9:00 pm. Mock Convention Delegate Fair. -00. Pm’ 0 m m at ssoclaiwn picimc or
, law students and their families.
Doremus Gym. ,
_ - Sydney Lewis Hall Lawn.
8.00 p.m. Lenfest Series. The Waverly 2.00 Th S . “Arm d th
Consort presents “Revelation 1000- ‘ p'm' Mailfgy Zréeoige Bags: Shfw Di_
2000" Keller Theatre’ Lenfest rected by Al Gordon. Johnson The-
atre, Lenfest Center.
Thursday! October‘ 28 ‘ 5:00 p.m. 0rphan’s dinner for international stu-
4 :00 p.m. Math department colloquium. dems_ Bys oasis_
wrh‘?Va1“°5 °l-Pi,” 1°?“ Term“: Uni‘ 6:00 pm. Acapella concert. JubiLee, Southern
versity of North Carolina. Room 6, Comfort and General Admission. Lee
Robinson Hall. chape1, ' ‘
7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Gods and Monsters”
Friday, October 29 (USA.1998).di1re_ctedbyBil1Condon.
10:00a.m. Seniorsbeginwintertennweb » Tr°“bad°‘1fCin¢m°~ _ , _
mgisuaﬁom 8:00 p.m. Parents Weekend University Wind
3:30 pm mm Sigma  Leechapd Ensemble concert. Keller Theatre,
4-5:30p.In. Piesident’sOpenHouse for freshmen L°“f°S“3°“"='-
and patents Lee. House.
4:00 pm Theatre Series. “Aims and the Man,” by SUFICICIY, OCTO ber 31
George Bernard Shaw. Johnson Theatre,
LenfestCcnter. All Day Daylight Saving Time ends.

2'

 

F

ii.

 

OCTOBER 25, 1999

 “RT s

PAGE 5

Football grabs two: the start of a streak?

By Mike Weil

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee football team has often fell
victim to blowing big leads this season. Saturday the Gen-
erals reversed their fortunes, pulling off a 31-28 comeback
victory at Sewanee. The Tigers dominated the ﬁrst quarter,
starting off the scoring with a 10-yard touchdown pass by
quarterback Max Fuller 10:46 into the game. The lead would
double on Fuller’s one—yard quarterback sneak, ending the
first quarter with a Sewanee 14-0 lead.

The Generals showed excellent poise and heart as they
have done all season by not letting this lead deﬂate them.
Freshman standout Chris Sullivan cut the lead in half with

Women’s
soccer ﬁnds
focus in loss

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The women’s soccer season has been one full of ups
and downs, and certainly bumps and bruises. Saturday’s
game against Randolph Macon was no exception.

The Generals went into the match tied for third in the
ODAC with the Yellow Jackets, and although the game did
not end in their favor, the team may have gained something
much more important: conﬁdence and ateam mentality.

The Yellow Jackets scored first, just 13 minutes into the
game, but the Generals roared back just 57 seconds later
with a goal from freshman Jenny Thomas. Fellow freshman
Ruth Hill Yielding put the team up 2-1 early in the second
half off a pass from junior captain Shana Levine.

Randolph Macon answered back with two goals of its
own, making the score 3-2. From the Generals’ point of
view, however, one of those goals should not have counted.

“From our point of view, there were three or four people
offsides when the ball was sent into the box,” Head coach
Jan Hathom said. “The officiating on that call was sus-
pect at best.”

Despite a ﬂurry of opportunities in the ﬁnal minutes of
play, the buzzer sounded without another General goal.

“We were pounding them in the last four or five min-
utes, but it just turned out to be one of those games when
a bounce of the ball makes the difference,” Hathom said.

Though they lost, the Generals scored a victory in
another category. “We played for the whole 90 minutes
for the first time,” Levine said. “It was a great overall trip
for the team.”

Hathom applauded the team’s gutsy effort. “It was
the kind ofteam effort and heart we’d been searching for
all season.”

Thursday’s game against Emory and Henry put one in
the win column for the Generals, 1-0. Sophomore forward
Noelle Beckman scored the only goal of the game, her
third of the season. The Wasps managed only three shots
on the game to the Generals’ 18.

With its regular season over, the Generals head to the
ODAC tournament as the fourth seed behind Lynchburg,
Roanoke, and RMC. The team will take on Virginia Wesleyan
in the ﬁrst round on Tuesday at the Liberty Hall Fields.

The Generals beat Wesleyan by a score of 2-0 earlier
in the season, but Hathom is very hesitant to count them
out as a serious opponent. “Roanoke only beat them by
one, and that was on a penalty kick. They’re at their peak
right now.”

a two-yard touchdown run early in the
second quarter. Only ﬁve minutes later
senior fullback Scott Moses plunged two
yards into the endzone to end a roller
coaster half tied at 14.

W&L lost its momentum 2:54 into the
second half, as the Tigers picked off a pass
by senior quarterback Christian Batcheller
and returned it 10 yards to paydirt for the
only points of the third quarter. But
Batcheller refused to let the interception
effect his play. He responded just 36 sec-
onds into the fourth quarter with a 41 -yard touchdown strike
to freshman tight end Davis White to tie the game at 21.

Ct

Sullivan

lt’s about time
something went
our way.

— Freshman Chris

Sewanee rebounded with l 1 :22 to go as Fuller
tallied his second rushing touchdown of the
game, this time from two yards out.

The Generals refused to let this one go.
Andy Vendig’s 34-yard field goal cut the
lead to 28-24 with 5 :09 to play, and Sullivan’s
four yard touchdown run gave the Generals
a three-point lead less than a minute later.

Sophomore linebacker Jeff Bahl provided
the last big defensive play needed to seal
9 9 the game. With :50 seconds to play and the

Tigers driving in W&L territory, Bahl recov-
ered a fumble ending the game as a 31-28 General victory.
Bahl’s fumble recovery gave him four on the day, to go

By Sarah Schmidt-

STAFF WRITER

The W&L volleyball team made the most of Reading
Days, traveling to Atlanta to take part in the Emory
Invitational. The Generals faced a strong ﬁeld, includ-
ing Greensboro College, the team that ended their six
match winning streak.

W&L started the weekend by falling to Averett Col-
lege (15-10, 17-15, 15-10) on Friday evening. Averett is
ranked eighth in the South Region and is a likely fnst
round opponent for the Generals in the national touma-
ment. The squad went on to defeat North Carolina
Wesleyan later that night (14-16, 15-6, 12-15, 15-8, 15-
1 1). The Generals went 2-2 on Saturday as well. W&L
came out on top against Greensboro, putting them away
inthree games(15-12,16-14, 15-6). Leadingthe way for
the Generals was sophomore middle blocker Lindsay
Ruckert, who finished with 13 kills and 1 1 digs. Senior
outside hitter Nancy Reinhart racked up eight kills, four
blocks and 10 digs. Junior setter Katherine Kline con-
tributed a team-high 22 assists.

Next up for the Generals was the host Emory, ranked
12th. W&L fell in fourgames(5-15,, 15-11,1—15, 14-16).
Reinhart notched 15 kills and 18 digs in the loss. Ruckert
tallied 12 kills and 19 digs while junior outside hitter
Tori Hays totaled 19 digs. Kline once again led the set-
ters with 29 assists. Ruckert’s efforts earned her a spot
on the all-tournament team while Reinhart surpassed
Hilary Martin’s (1994-97) career record for kills, setting
a new W&L record of 1,091. Reinhart already claimed
the ODAC record for career digs in the ﬁrst match against
Greensboro earlier this season.

"ﬂfoie Eastern Mennonite on Thursday. W&L sent EMU

I112 G§n£I:dl.S_9aI_I1¢ backihorne to take on.conferenc_e..

    

92%»
photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

ANYBODY FOR SECONDS? Junior setter Katherine Kline serves one up for the Generals.

Volleyball digging for gold

packing after three games (15-6, 15-3, 15-3.) The match
continued W&L’s dominance over the ODAC as they
improved their conference record to 8-0. Ruckert and
Reinhart led the way again, tallying 11 and six kills,
respectively. Reinhart also added 12 digs in her quest
to break another ODAC record. Kline came up with 20
assists in the effort.

W&L had another big weekend this weekend, tak-
ing on Greensboro again and Centre College in the W&L
tri-match. The Generals split the matches, defeating
Greensboro in the ﬁrst match of the day (15-9, 15-9’, 10-
15, 15-12) and falling to Centre in the last bout of the
weekend(11-15,15-12,15-11, 15-7). Inthewinagainst
Greensboro, Reinhart totaled 12 kills and 21 digs.
Ruckert dominated the net with 1 1 kills, 3 solo blocks,
and 1 block assist. Hays came up big on the back line
for the Generals with 21 digs while Kline notched 33
assists. W&L set the pace in the first two games, but
after jumping out to an early lead a series of serving
defaults and defensive miscommunications downed the
Generals in the second game. W&L was able to put the
match away in the fourth game. The Generals now post
a 2-1 advantage over arch-rival Greensboro this sea-
son. This is the last regular season match-up between
the two teams, but there is a good chance they may
face eachother in the national tournament.

The ﬁnal match between W&L and Centre ended in
a W&L loss, leaving unranked Centre (9-18) the only
team to escape the tri-match without a loss. Ruckert
totaled 23 kills and 15 digs, while Reinhart fmished with
12 kills and 27 digs. Freshman outside hitter Stacy
Kimmel posted seven kills and 17 digs. Kline once again
led the setters with 32 assists. The Generals resume

-..act.i.0_I1..agai_I1St0DA9.9EP9I!§I!l.1S9ﬂ9lSQQQll§$11118;- .

day in Roanoke.

Swimming splits season opener
Women defeat Transylvania (154-108); Men fall (138-122)

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s swim
teams hosted Transylvania University on Saturday. The
Generals split the dual meet with the men’s squad falling to
the Pioneers 138-122 and the women winning their meet
154-108.

The women came away with the win in the ﬁrst meet of
the season driven by a strong group of returning swim-
mers and an impressive freshmen class. The squad looks
prepared to further build on the strength of last year’s
season especially after the performances from underclass-
men swimmers.

Leading the Generals with three wins apiece were fresh-
man Blair Huffman and sophomore Katie Kennedy.

Senior Lauren Beckenhuaer, freshman Kelli Austin,
sophomore Laura Ingoldsby and the 200 free relay team of
Ingoldsby, sophomore Cynthia Smith, senior Lezael
Haynes, and freshman Katherine Kolle all posted wins for
W&L.

Last season, W&L’s women’s swim team defeated
Transylvania in an incredibly close match that came down
to the ﬁnal relay of the day.

Again this year, the competition tested the Generals.
“We were evenly matched teams but we came out on top,”
Huffman said. After this win the Generals are looking for-
ward to another successful season.

“I think we’re going to have a great season,” Ingoldsby
said. “We’ve gotten a lot stronger and this meet wasn’t as
close as it was last year.”

Changes to the Generals’ training regimen have made
an impact as evident by their performance on Saturday.

“We were in great shape for the beginning of the season
and we’ 11 only improve upon that. Now that we lift weights
together as a team we have the added strength and endur-
ance that we’ll need in future meets,” Ingoldsby said.

“We’re going to surprise a lot of teams this year, and 1
think that we’re a lot tougher than we were last year,”
Ingoldsby said.

The men’s team may have dropped their season opener
to Transylvania but prospects for the season still remain
high.

Freshman Pat Frankfort led the men’s team with three
individual wins. Junior Colin Hayes won two events for
the Generals’ cause.

Senior Jared Fribush continued his unwavering domi-
nance in the sprints with a win in the 50 free. Fribush’s
time of 22.20 seconds set the new meet record.

That performance was one more in slew of individual
meet, conference, and All-American honors that Fribush
has racked up over the course of his storied career as a
General.

With seven retuming letter winners on the men’s side,
accompanied by the promising performance of Frankfort,
the talent is there for a winning season. ‘

“The team is going to be strong again this year. We’ve
got the strong retumers and the solid talent in the fresh-
men class that a team needs to continue success,” said
Fribush. “I know that we will continue to improve through-
out the season. We all have a good outlook for where the
team is going this year.”

The men’s and women’s teams will face Marymount
University on Saturday for their second meet of the sea-
son. Meet time is scheduled for 1:00 p.m. in the Cy
Twombly Pool.

 

;_ .
,.:.:. 2- t



along with his 15 tackles, sack, and pass deﬂection.

The Generals’ season, which looked so bleak only two
weeks ago at 1-4, is now becoming respectable. Aﬁer being
on the downside of many comebacks this season, beating
favored Sewanee on the road does wonders for the players’
conﬁdence. “lt’s about time something went our way,” said
Sullivan who rushed for two touchdowns. “It just gets
frustrating after a while. Aside from the first game we
haven’t lost by more than a touchdown. When you win‘,
the players start having fun and playing better football.
Winning two straight games can only improve conﬁdence.”

The Generals look to use this conﬁdence to reach the
500 mark this Saturday against a hot Bridgewater squad

Kickoff at 1 :00. ‘

Men’s soccer
hopeful after
ODAC wins

Generals improve to 8-6

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee’s men’s soccer team
capped offa busy and impressive week Saturday with
an hard fought 1-0 win over Guilford College in Greens-
boro, North Carolina. The match’s lone goal came at

the 13:00 minute
C 6

mark ofthe ﬁrst half
when sophomore
If everything
goes right we’ll

Andrew Grimes
scored a nice goal
off a cross from se-
nior captain Scott

W1-n thﬁ LeToumeau.
The ODAC vic-
tOurnaII1Cnt. tory improved the
_Sem-or Matt Generals’ overall
Arnold record to 8-6 and 5-

3 ' fe e ce
,7 plaliyln con r n

The Generals
also had two other games this week, coming away with
victories in both contests. On Thursday W & L eas-
ily defeated Ferrum 5-1, getting two early goals from
senior Jamie Parker followed by scores from senior
Jon Wilson,junior Jacek Mucha, and freshman Micheal
Stoeckle. The Generals tallied all ﬁve of their goals
before Ferrum put a shot on the scoreboard. ,

Tuesday the Generals got another important ODAC
victory over in-state rival Lynchburg, winning 1-0 
hind another goal from Mucha. This game concluded
an especially successful week for the Generals’ de-
fense, anchored by goalies freshman Brad Hearn, fresh-
man Tim Foley, and junior Jordan Ginsberg. The team
narrowly outshot Lynchburg 13-12 in the game. ’

The Generals leave this triumphant week looking for-
ward the conclusion of their regular season and the
ODAC tournament. 

“The team is really confident right now going into
the tournament that we will perform well against all
our ODAC foes, and that on any given day we can
beat all nice of them” Arnold said, adding that “if
everything goes right, we will win the tournamentf.’

The Generals’ next step on their journey to the ODAC
crown is Wednesday against Bridgewater College. '

~: -Kiyrz

.x»..,,,,,§®_ﬁ§« "“~*‘aie.«s.. _

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editoi

THE ATTACK FROM THE BACK: Freshman Blair Huffman leads the pack of swimmers during Saturday’sE
meet against Transylvania. Huffman’s win in the individual medley was one of three she scored.‘

 

 

 

PAGE 6

.

vymgmr
cmuumu-
effective
cerhﬁcanon

LAST WORD

OCTOBER 25, 1999

Cigarette manufacturers cough up $500 billion

By Kevin McManemin

T HE M4DC‘AP LAUGHS

$500 billion. That’s a hell ofa lot
ofmoney. It’s more money than most
continents make in a year. In fact,
that’s so much money, it would take
Bill Gates almost 37 hours to make
that much!

$500 billion is the amount of
money cigarette manufactures stand
to lose thanks to a couple of recent
decisions in our judicial system.
That’s right, the American judicial
system — the same folks who
brought you such ingenious bits of
jurisprudence as the “separate but
equal” doctrine, the OJ verdict and
the Judge Judy show. Only religions
and governments are allowed to be
so blatantly wrong so many times
and remain in business.

In case you haven’t heard, last
week a Florida court ruled that smok-

 

How does this man live with himself?
Why can’t the police stop him before he
produces again? Are we just supposed
to sit back and do nothing while he

gives the green light to “It’s Pat II?”

ers may file a class-action suit
against tobacco companies, which
may cost the industry upwards of
$300 billion. Add this to the $206 bil-
lion the tobacco industry agreed to
pay the Federal government last No-
vember and you’ve got some $500-
odd billion the tobacco folks are
going to be in the hole. And for
what? For being good capitalists.
For providing a product near and
dear to the hearts and lungs of mil-
lions of Americans; a product that
has been helping high school kids
look “cool” for generations.

It seems our society’s conception
of personal responsibility has been
eroded as signiﬁcantly as the pres-
tige of the phrase “produced by
Lorne Michaels.” By what possible
stretch of legal logic can the court
see ﬁt to actually award the people
who spent years putting hideous,
foul-smelling little cancer factories
in their mouths and puff-
ing? Granted, the tobacco
industry has been less than
forthright in the past about
the health consequences
of smoking — but so what?
For the past thirty years,
any remotely intelligent
person has known exactly
what smoking does (and
look, I’m not talking “re-
motely intelligent” like a
parakeet or a bowl of sur-
prisingly clever pudding
might be “remotely intelli-
gent,” I mean “remotely in-
telligent” as in “entirely
otherwise worthless but
showing the faintest glim-
mer of any sign of a tiny
chance that there may be,
mired deep within the over-
whelming conﬁnes ofrock—
like-ignorance, some sem-
blance ofa sort ofsimplis—
tic kind of cognitive func-
tion whatsoever, even if at

a basic stimulus-response level, like

a paramecium or a Backstreet Boy”).
So, therefore, we have to place all

smokers into one oftwo categories:
1) Those who are notjust stupid,

but are so exhaustively pebble-

brained that their very

existence offends hu-

manity. 12-.

2) Those who knew
exactly what they were
doing, and as such
should be held entirely
responsible.

We live in a country
where gun manufactur-
ers are allowed practi-
cally free reign while
cigarette companies
are treated like the off-
spring of Hitler and
Lorne Michaels. (Sorry for all the
Lorne bashing, but the man just pro-
duced an entire movie on the Mary
Katherine Gallagher sketch, the
least-funny SNL sketch with the
least-funny character of the least-tal-
ented cast member since Kevin
Nealon.) A

So who wins when the cigarette
industry is docked $500 billion?
Clearly not the industry itself. How
about ‘the American
people? Our government
is getting a hefty check
for $206 billion out of
the deal. As a non-
smoker, I can appreciate
that I’m not going to
waste my tax dollars
keeping emphysema-
riddled morons alive
through Medicare and
Medicaid. But‘ then
again, I don’t think I
should have to spend
my tax dollars giving old
people trips to Atlantic
City every Social Security payday,
either. Part of democracy is paying
for crap you don’t like, and is it re-

  
 

Ma

 

COMING OF AGE

ART & NATURE

of error: 3%.

Question of the week: which
sounds like the most horribly

dull section of English 105 of-
fered winter term?

THIIETERNTHJFEDHFHNE
]"USTICE & CHARACTER
LITERATURE 8: TECHNOLOGY

Poll asked of 1,578 random W&L students. Margin

43%
24%
15%
20%
18%

  

Student Travel
from A to Z

    

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 21?
Amsterdam 196
From Washington

each way based on a rt
purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures

in November and are
subject to change.

Restrictions apply.

1-800-ZCOUNCIL

I

   
  

 
 
 

“Because vou
iutl weren't lucky
enough to be an
orphan"

    
  

with Snapple

knitted on

Before the follcs arrive, did you
remember to:

— get the used condoms out of your sheets
—— get rid of all the good stuff and restock the fridge

_— body piercings out, that ugly sweater grandma

— replace your hemp plants with gladiolas
— goodbye Playboy, hello Newsweek
—— inform your folks that all of your professors are
coincidentally going away this weekend

Parents Weekend tip: ﬁnd the person in your dorm from
Alaska. Chances are his/her folks ain‘t coming, so you can all
hide your bongs in the Alaskan‘s room for the weekend.

  

' 4 trln tI';AREV1l'\


n

 

5aIr_="r'r1

 

ally worth the extra money if it means
crippling the only remaining indus-
try we’re better at than the Japa-
nese?

And I want to know why the
fatsos are getting offso easy. I mean,
it’s scientiﬁcally proven
that overweight people
are several times more
likely to have serious
health problems, per-
haps even more prob-
lems than smokers. I
don’t think it’s fair that
my taxes should have to
pay so some tubby lardo
can sit on his couch
gorging on bag after bag
of barbecue-ﬂavored po-
tato chips and then rack-
ing up the Medicare bills
for his third triple bypass of the
month. So why isn’t the government
going after snack food manufactures

ii

    
 

-if they’re going to prosecute ciga-

rette makers?

Finally, the smokers themselves
are certainly not going to come out
ahead here. $300 billion divided by
millions of smokers divided by law-
yers fees = about 98 cents a smoker
(before tax). How do you think RJ
Reynolds is going to foot
the bill? Just explain
nicely to their investors
that they’ve had a very
hard year, and, “sorry,
shareholders, we can’t
raise prices just to keep up
proﬁt margins?” Of course
not. They’rejust going to
raise the price of cigarettes
to about nine bucks a pack
and take all the money
right back from the ad-
dicts. The court is not
helping smokers; it’s actu-
ally obliquely taxing them.

Well my ﬁne friends, 224 years
ago, an inbred Euro twit named King
George wanted to impose a moder-

ate tax on tea, but a bunch of drunk
Boston rufﬁans decided to dump it in
the harbor rather than submit to tyr-
anny. And from this act sprouted a
proud heritage: the
heritage of all
Bostonians to get plas-
tered and act like idiots
regularly. Also,
America.

Smokers, are you re-
ally so pathetic and
weak-willed that not
only can’t you summon
up the basic courage to
quit a ﬁlthy, destructive
habit, but that when

 

think it’s time you took a stand for
your God-given right to rape your
lungs for a reasonable price. It’ s time
to take every last ludicrously over-
taxed carton of Camels,
Kools, Newps, Marbs,
and yes, even Lucky
Strikes, and go out, ﬁnd
the nearest harbor and
dump ‘em in the water.
Destroy your beloved
cigarettes like Lorne
Michaels destroyed
American comedy rather
than submit to The Man’s
tyranny over your lives.

And don’t worry if‘ I

someone threatens to price it out of you miss the party; the harbor should

existence you’re just going to roll
over and cry rather than ﬁght back? I

be easy enough to ﬁnd. Just listen
for the coughing ﬁsh.

Neverclear

190 Il|'00l grain alcohol

 

‘A few shots and you'll never be
clear what happened that night

A Last Word fake ad

 

OI999 Tho coca-cote Company. ‘Nestea’ h u ngmena vudomrk Itcomod to coco-Col: Nuns Rcfruhmnntx company. USA.

Now might be a good time to grab a CO0Lfrom Nestea at
W & L Snack Bar. Better still, use this coupon to buy one
2002 and get one FREE. Offer expires 11/15/99.

  

 

A och

«~€’?>7‘8.'I55

‘P

I
/

 

/4.

O1

‘[{~3‘.£S2.
V-I03:
H0-I2.
i¢_,¢,M_

.lf».$.?f.f" ° t“**"“ '72:: l.E'é3RAP.‘«’
\I’\.'.2:?--I .

    

 U ?\é :3/'ER.‘3lT‘-.I'

 ~ 1 tioi, —./A 

K«‘¥'~..« .

  

Clip: ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 102, No.12

Senior charged
with rape, sodomy

Dorm counselor accused by Sweet Briar
student in alleged January incident

By Vanessa Chen

S TA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee University
senior James McKnight was arrested
on Tuesday, Oct. 19, after a female
Sweet Briar College student alleged
that he forcibly raped and
sodomized her. McKnight serves as
Washington and Lee assistant dorm
counselor.

The alleged incident took place
in Graham-Lees Dormitory on Jan.
30 ofthis year when the female vic-
tim was 18 years-old. Now 19, she
reported the incident to the police
earlier this month after privately un-
dergoing counseling. According to
Sergeant Wayne Straub, the inves-
tigating ofﬁcer, she now feels ready
to testify against her alleged at-
tacker.

“Oftentimes, a victim doesn't
come forward right away and that
poses a problem for the police,”
Straub said.

Vicky Agnor, the victim/witness
coordinator for the Lexington Com-
monwealth Attorney, is working
with the victim and believes this will
be a difficult case because the vic-
tim did not go to the hospital or the
police right away.

“It's not typical of a rape victim
to go right to the police, but that’s
what they need to do,” Agnor said.
“It makes this case harder because
there's no DNA evidence and it's
been a while since the attack oc-
curred.”

In a case like this, it will be
McKnight's word against the
victim's.

Janette Boyes-Ramos, a forensic
nurse examiner at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, says that it's best for a vic-
tim to go the hospital right away so
the physical evidence can be pre-
served.

“After 72 hours, there's not much
point in doing it,” Boyes-Ramos
said. “But with rape trauma, a lot of
times this doesn't happen.”

Forcible rape and forcible sod-
omy are felonies, each ofwhich car-
ries the punishment of more than one
year in prison. Sodomy is deﬁned
as oral and/or anal intercourse. The
preliminary hearing is scheduled for
Nov. 16, but is subject to change and
could be continued into December.

There is a preliminary hearing any-
time there is a felony charge and the
victim must testify at it. Ifthejudge
decides there is probable cause, it
will go on to the grandjury in circuit
court. The grand jury is a group of
private citizens who hear evidence
in the case and decide whether or
not to return an indictment against
the defendant. If the defendant is
indicted, the case will go to trial and
the defendant must plead guilty or
not guilty at his arraignment. Dur-
ing the trial, the plaintiff will be
called to testify against the defen-
dant.

Agnor says that for the victim,
telling her story at each stage ofthe
judicial process will be the most dif-
ficult task.

“You have a defense attorney
asking you lots of questions and we
try to prepare them for that,” Agnor
said. “We let them know it's going
to get harder with every step of the
process.”

Usually, the defense attorney will
bring the victim's character into
question and try to establish doubt
as to whether what occurred was
rape or consensual sex. Straub
agrees that this part of the court pro-
cess is the hardest for the victim.

“The way this [judicial] system’s
set up, a lot of times the victim is
victimized again by the system it-
self,” Straub said.

If McKnight is convicted of a
felony, he could lose his ROTC
scholarships and consequently
have to repay the money. For
McKnight, this would be approxi-
mately $100,000 because he was on
a full scholarship. Even if he is not
convicted, just having felony
charges on his record would seri-
ously hinder the military career
McKnight is intending to pursue. He
would also face disciplinary action
from the Student/Faculty Hearing
Board at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The Board of Trustees could
postpone or withhold his degree if
he is convicted.

In the meantime, the victim is
working on her case with Agnor and
receiving counseling. McKnight de-
clined to comment, but has already
spoken to his hall about the incident
and moved out of his dorm room.
Dorm counselors Colin Tate and

photo by Arne Kuhlman/The Trident

I’M CRAZY NAPKIN HEAD: A student and his father enjoy lunch
zogether during the weekend’s festivities.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

MOM, DAD, THIS IS. . . Junior Bryant Adams and his parents talk with Professor of history Ted Delaney on the Lee House lawn
during the parents’ luncheon on Saturday.

Group to educate local youth

Michael Crittenden will share re-
sponsibility for McKnight's hall. His
responsibilities as assistant head
dorm counselor will be split among
the other assistant heads.

Straub is still investigating the
incident and interviewing people. He
wants to gather as much information
as he can about the case in order to
be fair to both sides.

“I’m just trying to ﬁnd out the
truth and in this case, that's the hard-
est thing,” Straub said.

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

A new education group hopes to
expand campus awareness and in-
volvement in local schools and edu-
cational issues.

The yet-to-be-named group was
started by junior Dan Birdwhistell and

Live Drive back in
the saddle again

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

Picture this, you and your roommates
have all been drinking out at your coun-
try house on a Friday night and you
really want to go see The Breakfast Club
in town. Thinking that you are “okay”
to drive, you grab your keys and head
out the door. Instead of all piling into
your car and making the long, drunken
drive into town, however, you suddenly
see a ﬂier above the door with the num-
ber 462-8 1 00, the number to Live Drive.
That’s when you remember the history
of students who have died in drunken-
driving accidents, and the stiff penal-
ties for getting caught. That’ s when you
call.

“Sometimes I really want to get into
town and drive drunk,” said a junior who
asked to remain anonymous. “Live
Drive gives me a chance to not have to
do that.”

Live Drive is a Washington and Lee

volunteer organization the provides
sober drivers for students on Wednes-
day, Friday and Saturday nights from
10 p.m. until 2 a.m. Three or four stu-
dent drivers take calls at the Live Drive
number and pick up students around
Rockbridge County and take them where
they want to go. Organization president
Christie Phillips said that sometimes stu-
dents get a little ridiculous asking for
rides, but for the most part students re-
spect the student drivers.

“We occasionally have people who
will ask for a ride six or seven times a
night, back and forth between places,
just as a joke,” said Phillips. “Most stu-
dents, however, appreciate the program

and don't abuse it.”

The current Live Drive program was
started approximately four years ago by
former student Charles Allen, said
Phillips. When Allen graduated last year
it fell to Phillips to take over and orga-
nize the driving service. The transition
of power was not as smooth as pos-
sible said Phillips. This is why Live Drive
wasn't available at the beginning of the
year.

“Charles [Allen] didn't leave me with
much information to help me organize
this,” Phillips said. “At the beginning
of the year we didn't always have people
driving, but now things are going well.”

Live Drive is staffed by volunteers
from the major campus organizations,
such as the fraternities and sororities,
who assign three or four drivers on their
speciﬁed night. Drivers must provide
their own cars for the evening, and are
paid for gas at the end of the night. Ac-
cording to some drivers, it is not that
bad a way to spend an evening.

“l’ve done before and it isn't that
bad,”junior Dillon Whisler said. “This
program saves students lives. It’s prob-
ably one of the best programs this cam-
pus has.”

‘ Drivers are each reimbursed for their
time and gas at the end of the night.
Phillips said that each driver receives
ﬁve dollars from Live Drive’s limited
budget.

“Right now we have enough money
to function for the year with the $1,900
the Executive Committee gave us,”
Phillips said. “If we had more money we
could make this program work a lot

SEE ‘LIVE’ ON PAGE 2

sophomore Brooks Hickman as a fo-
rum for educational discussions, and
as an outlet for Washington and Lee
students who want to volunteer their
time for educational pursuits.

“Our goal is three—fold. First, we
want to discuss education reform is-
sues; second, we want to increase tu-
toring opportunities at local schools;
and third, we are planning many ser-
vice projects to do with the kids,”
Birdwhistell said.

Birdwhistell said that the main fo-
cus of the group would be to orga-
nize the numerous tutoring programs
that already exist on campus. Accord-
ing to Birdwhistell, there are many op-
portunities available on campus, but
they are widespread and not well or-
ganized.

“A lot oftimes, students only vol-
unteer when they see a ﬂier or hear
about an opportunity from a friend,”
Birdwhistell said. “We hope to act as
a central clearinghouse for tutoring
on campus, in order to increase in-
volvement.”

The other main focus of the group
is going to be enrichment projects at
local schools, according to freshman
group member Jane Ledlie. Ledlie said
that the projects will expand On tu-
toring by involving students at local
schools in activities they would not
normally participate in.

“We want to give students an op-

portunity to learn and experience
things they otherwise wouldn't be
able to,” Ledlie said. “One idea we
had was to take underprivileged stu-
dents from local schools to the zoo in
Washington DC.”

Birdwhistell said other ideas in-
cluded having Washington and Lee
students act as college counselors for
Rockbridge County High School stu-
dents. W&L students would act as a
resource for questions the high
school students had about the appli-
cation process, college essays and on
choosing the right college.

Initial response for the group has
been quite positive said Birdwhistell
and Ledlie. Birdwhistell said that one
reason for this is the need for a group
of this type on campus.

“There is a void for people who
are concerned with education issues
that must be filled,” Birdwhistell said.
“The Future Teachers of America
(F.T.A.) is more career-oriented, and
doesn't ﬁll the service role that we
hope to.”

The F.T.A. is a student group fo-
cused on academic and career issues
for Washington and Lee students
who are interested in teaching. W&L
doesn't offer an education major, but
interested students can receive their
teaching certiﬁcation through Mary

SEE ‘EDUCATION’ ON PAGE 2

November 1, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:

Mock Con and me

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

Swim coach questions EC

Generals stun Parents’ Weekend crowd

News according to McManemin

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

‘EDUCATION’ from page 1""'-“"

Baldwin College. F.T.A. member Erin Partridge said that
she hopes the two groups can work in conjunction.

“Because we (the F.T.A.) are academic-oriented, and
the new education group is more service-oriented, the
two groups should be able to help each other,” Partridge
said. “I can deﬁnitely see us working together in the
future.”

Student interest was very positive at the education
group’s first meeting said Birdwhistell. He said 30 stu-
dents were at the meeting, and 20 more had called him
about getting involved with tutoring or teaching oppor-
tunities. He said the group members are very positive
and that he is looking forward to a successful future for
the group.

“This is something Washington and Lee needs. We
are going to consolidate the tutoring opportunities on
campus and give students an even greater opportunity
to give back to the local community. This is a college
campus that’s resources in education go untapped be-
cause there is no mechanism to encourage involvement.
We hope to be that mechanism.”

‘LIVE’ from page 1

smoother, however.”

Phillips said that Live Drive is going to apply for a
grant that would give it enough money to expand its abil-
ity to serve students. The new money could be used to
pay drivers more money, and to buy much needed cellular
phones for drivers.

“The greatest problem with Live Drive is that once a
driver is out on a run we have no way of reaching them,”
Phillips said. “With cell phones we would be able to reach
people while they were out driving and be much more
efficient.”

Many other schools have similar programs to Wash-
ington and Lee's. The University of San Diego has a pro-
gram where students can call for a taxi, and then the school
will reimburse the taxi company for the fare. USD junior
Luke Piepkom said that the program has helped him more
than once.

“I have thought about driving home before, aﬁer I've
been drinking, but I always remember to call a cab,”
Piepkom said. “It’s stupid to drive drunk, but sometimes I
need to get home. The program has probably saved my
life.”

With a number of students living off campus, drinking
and driving is a major issue at Washington and Lee. Ac-
cording to Phillips, students have to realize there is a bet-
ter alternative.

“People [at this school] think that because this is Lex-
ington there is no need to worry about driving drunk.
Well there is, and we don't need a fatality to prove it. Live
Drive is here for the students, so use it.”

RHYMES
WIT».   PIE

Tastes like it, too —
hot and creamy with vanilla,
cinnamon and cloves.
Try CHAI at our free tastings
each Saturday in November,
and take home a bottle at 20% off.

llX.l,.N|]lﬂN

r_.;‘.//.1.-.(/.'.....t-//4., an

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO
FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

@112 Tiling-tum iﬂlli

EWS

 

Academic major nights to be held

The first week in November, on Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday, there will be academic peer mentoring
done by the residence life staff. Almost all majors will
be covered in one of the three nights. Monday is Sci-
ence and C-school night, Tuesday is foreign languages,
and Wednesday is humanities. Each major will have an
approximately 20 minute talk, with a question and an-
swer session at the end. All freshman and sophomores
are encouraged to attend! Look for signs in the D—hall
and on the residence halls for exact times. All meetings
will be held in the C-School. Ifthere are any questions,
please contact Sula Jacobs at x4490.

Glasgow Endowment poetry reading

The Glasgow Endowment is sponsoring a program
on November 9th in bilingual poetry with readings by

Lamont Prize winning poet, Marilyn Kacker, and French
Poet Claire Malroux. It will be at 5pm in Northern Audi-
torium on Tuesday, November 9th.

PRIDE to host discussion

On Tuesday evening (November 2, 1999) PRIDE (Pro-
gramming for the Respect oflndividuals and Diversity
in Education) will host a talk by Burr Datz concerning
homosexuality and tolerance. An open discussion will
follow. It will be held at 7:00 p.m. in Northern Audito-
rium in the Leyburn Library.

Flu vaccine available on campus

The Student Health Center is offering the flu vac-
cine for $5 to W&L students, faculty and staff and
immediate family members (age 13 or over). The vac-
cine can significantly reduce your chances of com-
ing down with the flu this winter, and if it doesn’t
offer complete protection, should lessen the sever-
ity of the illness. Most people with the flu recover
completely, but are usually sick for several days to a
week or more. Flu is especially severe in people with
underlying chronic illness and may progress to pneu-
monia to other complications. The virus is easily
transmitted in college and dorm environments, and

LET TIAA—CREF HELP
YOU BUILD A SECURE
FINANCIAL FUTURE.

F or over 80 years, TlAA—CREF has
been the leading retirement company
on Americas campuses. But -experience is
just one reason why so many smart
investors trust us with their ﬁnancial

future. Here are a few more:

Superior strength

With over $250 billion in assets under man-
agement, TIAA-CREF is the world's largest
retirement organization — and among the
most solid. It’s one of the reasons why

Momingstar says, “TIAA-CREF sets the

standard in the ﬁnancial services industry.”

Solid, long—term
performance

We seek out long-term opportunities that
other companies, in pursuit of quick gains,
often miss. Though past performance can't
guarantee future results, this patient philos-

ophy has proven extremely rewarding.

oppotgotQllo'

LEXINGTON SHOP FOR PAPPA GALLO

Lots of formals

Indies’ Sl/IOES, Qloilling and

flccessolries

Z)’ N /l/.71}; Street‘
465’-$986’

 

 

 

New ,2: 

   

 

credit hietioryv  o

Surprisingly low expenses

TIAA-CREPE operating costs are among
the lowest in the insurance and mutual
fund industries.Z So more of your money
goes where it should — toward ensuring

your future.

Easy diversiﬁcation

We offer a wide variety of expertly
managed investment options to help build
your assets. We make it simple, too, with
stock, bond, money market, real estate,

and guaranteed options.

Unrivaled service

We believe that our service distinguishes
us from every other retirement company.
In the most recent Dalbar survey,
TIA/-\-CREF ranks tops in participation
satisfaction.3
Call today to ﬁnd out how TIAA-

CREF can help you build the ﬁnancial

future you want and deserve.

To ﬁnd out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

NOVEMBER 1, 1999
A

outbreaks are common on college campuses. Flu is
most common in the U.S. from December through
March so it is best to get vaccinated between Early
October and mid-November.

The vaccine will not give you the ﬂu, because it‘
is a killed virus vaccine. It generally causes only
mild side effects such as a sore or tender arms at the
injection site, or possibly fever, chills, headache or
muscle aches for 24 to 48 hours. People with a seri-g
ous allergy to eggs should not take the vaccine, and
anyone with a fever, acute respiratory or other ac-
tive infection or illness should wait until they have
recovered to get the vaccine. For more information
visit the CDC web site at: http://www.cdc.gov/nip/'
vaccine/flu.htm. The flu vaccine will be available at
the University Center from 1la.m. to 1 p.m. on No-
vember 1, 2, 15 and 16 and December 6 and 7. It is
also available at the Student Health Center anytime}
(except between 12-1 p.m. and 6-7 p.m. daily). Stu-
dents may bill the $5 charge home.

V mo ALTERATION,

qr,
\

U

l.’

D0/V’TFOzf(7’£'T
/I/06'/{
6'0/VI/Hi/770/W

22 N. Main Street 1
464-4001
Open: 8 am-6 pm, Monday
through Saturday

I

® TOYOTA

TOYOTA-101 *

  MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY .
 INTRODUCING wrwaw

 TOYOTA ECHO 

Sta  $1O,OOO — About n2,OOO well equipped.

THEl’<‘E’9 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outeide, great room on the ineide.
Cruiee the highway at 40 Mi’G’...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi—teoh
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that l<icl<e out 108 horeepower
any time you want it. And beet of all, Echo etarte atjuet $9,995?

 thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe thoee with limited
r leaee a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details.

r $ TOYOTA real values. every day. -1 Wwwg at-toyo-ta _ C O m ‘

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual. ‘Base MSRP excluding transportation, tax, tags and regionally required equipment.

1
lil-
'1
rl

‘D

     

This wise old bird
5

suggests that you study
and let someone else

worry about your travel 1
plans. Call the pros...

Ensuring the future g
for those who shape it.“ www.tlaa—cr Cf.O1‘g . .
Travel Un [muted
1Mnm1ngszu Variable Annulllesﬂﬂi, 6/30/99. 25landani & Paws Insumnre Il7a!1ngAnaIysI.s 1999; and Llpper Analytical Services. Inc., Lrpper-Dlnmxs 'AmIyu¢xIDau, 1999 (quarterly). 4 6 3 -71 
3DALBAR, lnc.. 1997Denm/ Carllrlbutlm Emllam Ratings. For more complete . Including charges and expenses. call 1 800 842-2733, ext. 5509, for CREF and TIAA Real Esme . A
A I 2 .R dthe fIl_bcfa I a .11AA-CREFIndlvld lundl u u lsewl dlstrlb CREF nlﬁ nndln l !heTlAAReal  kb d
 USES Cl T7‘ CHIC U V re y0U HVESI O!‘ 59'“ T7|0|'Ey U3 "S ‘U 0115 1 “I5 W CJCBS KEIESE n 8/W    H  r i
ll I

R

 

NOVEMBER I , 1999

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlii

PINION

PAGE 3

Keep your clothes on;
buttons on Wrong side

And so another Parents’ Weekend comes to a close,
and once again I sit here writing another editorial. 1 must
say, however, that I am rather blank with topics to write on
this week. Yeah our parents got drunk, made asses out of
themselves like we do every week, and generally had a
great time while only getting on our nerves a little bit. I
actually was orphaned this weekend, but that’s another
half-baked story of donnybrooks, burning boots, and ﬁre-
crackers. Not for the timid of heart. So unfortunately, I
have noth-
ing of real
interest to
write about
Parents
W e e k e n d ,
except that I had a good time having beers on the porch of
Morris House the other day. So instead I had a fairly mel-
low weekend, hanging out with Brother Shake J imson, be-
ing on the sidelines for the best football game in school
history, and meeting the parents of all the little hellions —I
mean freshmen that enjoy keeping me up until 4 a.m. So in-
stead of writing the same old story about your fraternity
brother’s crazy milf who you were sure you could hook-up
with, I am going to write about something much more excit-
ing: the reason why men’s and women’s clothes button dif-
ferently.

Word has it from an expert source that there is a definite
historical reason for the seemingly useless difference be-
tween the buttoning side of men’s and women’s clothes.
The alleged reason is that back in the 15th and 16th centu-
ries, women were dressed by others. (can I still apply for
this?) Thus we owe the current confusion in the minds of
clothiers today to women who were too lazy to dress them-
selves. What, it was too difﬁcult being a member of the
royal court, beat up from playing too much croquet, smil-
ing too much etc.?

LETTERS TO

Admissions diversity attempt
takes away from school

 Bad<porch Balderdash

v Michael Crittenden ’01

  

Dear Editor,

When ‘you see reviews of Washington & Lee, you
see things like big “Greek school, big beer drinking
school, big liquor school, happiest students on cam-
pus, rich in tradition, and the most homogeneous cam-
pus.

Unfortunately, I feel all ofthis is about to change.

People that come to this school, come here for what
it is known for. Grandparents, parents, brothers, and
sisters all attend W&L because of the great stories
they heard about how the school was back when. I
came here for somewhat similar reasons.

I hadn’t heard of W&L until late in high school, at
which time I started doing research on it and learning
about its history and characteristics. This is when I
ran across the items mentioned above. I was intrigued.
I was curious. I wanted to know more.

I applied to many schools of varying sizes and char-
acteristics. I chose to come to W&L because of what I
saw when I visited. I saw people who werejust like me.
I saw a beautiful campus filled will happy students and
rich tradition.

What I did not see then, I am beginning to see now.

I am seeing students segregate themselves from each

Cilia ﬂing-tum lﬁlii

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors Lisa Lin
David Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

There is also the more widely accepted idea that the
buttons are on the other side for women because women
are trying to make it that much more difﬁcult for men to
take off their clothes; not put them on, as women would

.have you believe happened “historically.” Instead, I be-
lieve it is an evil plot by women of the same ilk as bras in
trying to confound men and see how blue the human body
can get. Not to say that either obstacle is really that hard in
figuring out, but come on, are you trying to tell us that
women’s clothes couldn’t have more velcro or snaps? How
hard would it really be to make a good Velcro underwire?
This is how they get you. Instead of making it easy they
make it purposely hard, like an extra row of concentina
wire outside of a bunker. Well fortiﬁed with their confus-
ing buttons and triple loop clasp bras, they entice and
then entrap innocent men everywhere. In fact, there is
probably a secret women’s newsletter that is mailed around
to every estrogen-gifted human on the planet, consisting
solely of articles mocking men who were too excited to be
able to ﬁgure out a pair of button-ﬂy jeans or the one-handed
front clasp removal technique.

Thus, it becomes obvious that the reason that women’s
clothes have buttons on the wrong side is that they are
inherently evil beings that revel in teasing us poor de-
fenseless males who are merely captivated by their beauty
and faux gentility. It also makes it hard for women and men
to exchange clothes. Sure a woman can figure out how to
wear a button down as a sexy night shirt, but how are we
supposed to figure out how a cardigan set works? Not
that I know how, or what, a cardigan set is, but say . . . oh
nevermind. Just remember men, women are trying to get
you everyday, with those innocent smiles, Miracle bras
and “let’s just be friends,” they are out there to get you.
This is why we must strike back. A man, or cabal of men,
need to take over the lingerie and clothes industries, insti-
tuting mandatory Velcro and easy-undo buttons at all
costs. Otherwise, we will be lost.

THE EDITOR

other. Notjust by race, but by their general character-
istics.

People always complain that the speaking tradition
isn’t being upheld. Well, this is the reason why.

The root of the problem is the W&L Admissions.
They seem to be seeking out diversity of all types.
Racial.diversity. Interest diversity. Social diversity. And
any other diversity you can think of.

I don’t know if they are sweating now that W&L
has slipped a few notches in the Best Liberal Arts Col-
lege rankings. I don’t know ifthey are trying the find
the smart of the smart and forgetting about the rest.

Personality matters. How someone will ﬁt in and
enjoy the school and the atmosphere is important. It
must be examined in the admissions process. I don’t
feel they’re ignoring it, just not paying enough atten-
tion to it.

There are certain changes you can make in a school
that will turn out for the best. Changing this institu-
tion from all male to co-educational has deﬁnitely
turned out for the best. It has improved the reputation
of the school. It has made it more competitive. That,
my friends, is a good change.

What is happening now to W&L is a bad change.
Pretty soon, these changes that are taking place are
not only going to segregate the present students, but
are going to make the school less desirable to those
students who, like me, are looking for a big Greek school
with lots of beer drinking, rich in tradition and seam-

less.
The more admissions tries to recruit GPAs, coun-

tries, and backgrounds, the less they will be recruiting
people that belong here because of who they are.

Last year, I was chosen by some organization put-
ting together a book about college “bests” to answer
a questionnaire. They asked me what phrase sums up
our school. I said “work hard, play hard”. I’m afraid
that ifthese changes continue the phrase will be “work
hard, play with that small-speciﬁc-group-of-people-
you-feel-similar-to-and-absolutely-no-one-else hard”.
Not a good thought.

I feel the need to stress this point to everyone be-
cause it involves everyone. This is your school. Keep
it that way.

—Anonymous

M

‘I

 \Iw/ELCOMESM
EARL KEEN

.\
\ ‘ ._

.\ \ I
0 '<‘

Men’s swimming coach out-
raged with dismissal of student

Dear Editor,

In this technological era of shared infonnation, it is
inevitable, commonplace, and standard to have errant
“mouse-clicks” on a daily, if not hourly basis when work-
ing and playing on our computers. What are our “inten-
tions” when double-clicking on anything? What does
“intention” actually mean? Well, the handy pocket dic-
tionary that sits on my desk states that “intend” (v) is I)
to have in mind or plan; 2) to mean. And “intent” (n) is I)
aim; purpose; 2) volition; 3) meaning.

These are all very easy to understand. In fact, no ac-
tion or inaction can ever take place without intent. Intent
always precedes action/non-action. Granted, conse-
quences often arise from actions that are genuinely un-
intended. We, as a society, are often forgiving of unin-
tended results. In fact, in our judicial system intent is
actually the difference between manslaughter and mur-
der. So, it seems that intent would normally be a signiﬁ-
cant factor when considering the fate of an accused per-
son faciiigjail-time, couit proceedings, expulsion, or with-
drawing from school.

Except here at W&L during the “discovery” period of
the Executive Committee’s investigation of an honor vio-

lation charge.
What do I mean, you ask? Apparently, swift injustice

has again reared its ugly head on this campus. Tuesday,
October 26, 1999, a student with honor, integrity, and the
character of a true gentleman withdrew from this institu-
tion. His appointed legal advisors gave his case a “high
probability of conviction,” and helped to convince this
student that the EC would “probably not” consider the
intent of the accused’s actions. Nor did his legal advi-
sors feel that the EC would consider that this mistake
could happen to anyone [Based on reaction to this case
in a recent open forum, it has happened before, and will
continue to happen so long as we humans remain. . .
human].

So many variables directly related to his case would
senselessly be ignored during the trial. Thus, the fear
and the risk of conviction were too high for this student’s
comfort level. Who could blame him?

Leaving with a “clean record,” in order to ﬁnish a

degree somewhere else is understandable when your
“counsel” is telling you that, though you believe you are
innocent, your chances of acquittal are slim.

W&L calls this swiftjustice? I call it a shame. It is a
shame because the Executive Committee seems to relish
their “veil ofsecrecy” in dealing with honor violations———
secrecy that has no place in justice.

It is a shame because a person’s history of integrity
and gentlemanly behavior have no bearing on a legiti-
mate unintentional mistake with a “mouse click." Finally,
it is a shame that a person with this history of integrity
can’t be taken at his word. . . when his word has been
good thus far.

The Washington & Lee community should be outraged
that one more student has been hastily railroaded into
withdrawing from the university because he was con-
vinced that he would not be given the opportunity to
defend himself using every available rationale and argu-
ment in his favor. Beneﬁt of the doubt does not exist in
your current system.

Each year this school has become increasingly depen-
dent on computers and technology. W&L’s age—old honor

— system MUST be publicly scrutinized to incorporate these

advances. Ifthis case is the new precedent when sharing
ﬁles, then each student isjust a “mouse-click" away trom
withdrawal or dismissal. Scary, huh?

Andrew B. Pulsifer
Associate Professor of Physical Education
Men’s Swimming Coach

 xi uote of the Week:


N \‘.‘_-z"

(I

I always like to have my legs
spread. lt’s just the way I am.

- Anonymous sophomore girl

I}

 

“I had so much work to do, I
told my parents NOT to come.’
-Jay Duncan ‘OI

7

“Cleaned and vaccuumed for the
first time and made sure all my
‘stuff’ was in order.”

-Richard Kilby ’03

clean my room.”

“I let my roommate’s boyfriend

-Liz Powers ’0l

“Cleaned my room and made
hotel reservations a year in
advance at 7 am.”

-Steplianie Sweet ’02

 

 

PAGE 4

‘ X ’ 5 : | @112 itling-tum iﬂlii

IF E

NOVEMBER 1, 1999

Student body shows enthusiasm for M

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

On Jan. 28 and 29 the Warner Cen-
ter will be transformed once again.
This time, however, it will look unlike
anything the current Washington and
Lee University student body has seen
before. Instead of the dim lights and
elegant decorations of the Fancy Dress
Ball, students will turn the gym into a
veritable convention ﬂoor in prepara-
tion for Mock Convention 2000.

“Mock Convention is something
so unique to our school,” said fresh-
man Christina Spofford. “It sounds
like it will definitely be an interesting
and fun event to be involved in.”

If you’re not already involved with
Mock Con, however, you might be won-
dering exactly what all the hype is about.

“Mock Convention is an academic,
predictive exercise in which students
predict the nominee for the out-of-of-
ﬁce political party for the 2000 presi-
dential election,” said General Chair-
man Mark Schweppe.

_ The Mock Convention delegate fair
was held on Oct. 25 and 26 in the

Warner Center. Students ﬂocked into
the gym as soon as the doors opened
to sign up for their favorite state del-
egations.

“The delegate fair was really suc-
cessful, and over 1,300
students signed up
to participate,” $
said Kirsten 
Malm, se- C?

AND L15

  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

pen once during my four years here,"
freshman Noelle Baer said. “I want the
chance to see what Mock Con is all
about and to experience it.”

The state delegates will fill the con-
vention ﬂoor and serve as

E the spectator and
O cheering sec-
/”/QA tion for the

events of

nior and the Mock
Midwest )\V tﬁ Conven-
R e ~ ‘$1 ([3 t i 0 n
gional 93 ‘Z week-

C o - <7: ‘"9 end.
B “People
can

 

ordinator. “We were ex-
tremely happy with the turnout, but the
excitement is just beginning.”

“I wanted to be a delegate because
I ﬁgured that Mock Con will only hap-

Michael Crittenden
NEWS EDITOR

Most Washington and Lee stu-
dents think that an 8 a.m. class is a
cruel and unusual punishment meted
out by the university to make students
pay for weekend debaucheries.

To sophomore transfer stu-
dent Katie Kennedy, however,
having to wake up at 7 to go to
her 8 a.m. Spanish class is a wel-
comed change from last year’s
5 a.m. wake up time. Last year
Kennedy was a happy go-lucky
plebe at the Naval Academy.

Deciding the fit wasn’t right
for her, Kennedy transferred to
Washington and Lee and is cur-
rently enjoying her sophomore
year while getting used to the
W&L way of life.

Signature Student
.764/ie .7(e1212eJy 702

 

enjoying the Generals’ swim program.

Kennedy also loves to watch
movies (Favorite: Last of the
Mohicans), enjoying nature, and
reading F. Scott Fitzgerald. A pro-
spective English major, Kennedy
said she would like to be a college

  

“I came to Washington and
Lee because of its reputation and the
Southern culture,” Kennedy said. “I
guess I’ve just always wanted to be
an ante-bellum southern girl.”

As expected, the transition has been
a signiﬁcant change for the standout
swimmer. Kennedy said classes here are
more analytical and involve less busy
work than she is used to. The W & L
social scene has also been a large change
from last year’s restrictions, when
Wednesday partying was a far cry from
the norm at the Academy.

“I am used to going to bed on
Wednesdays, not partying,” Kennedy
said. “It’s a whole new concept for me.”

Kennedy, who’s philosophy is to
“trust in God, but always do your
homework,” has already made her
mark in the waters of Twombly pool as
a member of the women’s swim team.
Victorious in all of her races over Par-
ents’ Weekend, Kennedy said she is

swim coach and a mother with lots
ofkids. She’d also like to work on a
ranch in Montana, riding horses and
experiencing the natural world.

One of Kennedy’s largest pas-
sions is eating, which she says she
enjoys more than almost anything.

“My ideal meal would be pizza,
ice cream and a Diet Coke,” Kennedy
said. “I also really love ﬁidge brownie
sundaes with marshmallows, cara-
mel, rainbow jimmies and whipped
cream. They are the best.”

Kennedy said she has enjoyed
Washington and Lee so far, and is
looking forward to meeting more
people and enjoying the “Washing-
ton and Lee experience.”

“The people I have met so far are
awesome and I love it here,” she said.
“It has been strange sometimes get-
ting used to the intricacies of this
place, butl like it.”

 
 
   

  

still get involved with
Mock Con,” Schweppe said. “There
will be another delegate fair held closer
to the convention in order to allow
more people to get involved and to fill
the delegations of those states that
still have openings.”

There is a long history behind the
quadrennial Mock Convention. The
first convention was held in 1908 and
students have made 16 correct pre-
dictions out oftheir 21 attempts.

W&L’s Mock Convention has
gained a reputation as the most accu-
rate of its kind through the hard work
and research conducted by students.
“The work I do as a state chair-

man is so intriguing because it’s so
hard to know how your state is going
to vote,” said Kristen Binette, senior
and New Hampshire State Chainnan.
“There is so much hard work and dedi-
cation involved to ensure that we
choose the right person, but I am con-
ﬁdent that we will make the right pre-
diction.”

Mock Con state chairs and com-
mittee members must send out hun-
dreds of letters and surveys to politi-
cal contacts who serve as invaluable
resources during the intense research
stage leading up to the convention.

“Research is definitely going well,”
Schweppe said. “We have political sur-
veys out to all the different states and
everyone is working extremely hard to
make an accurate prediction.”

The Mock Con Steering Committee
is also working to secure a variety of
prominent speakers for the convention.
Members are searching for inﬂuential
Republicans with big reputations and
politicians who will help to make the
upcoming convention truly dynamic.

Possible speakers include the Re-
publican presidential candidates,
former president George Bush, Con-
gressman J. C. Watts, House Major-
ity Whip Tom DeLay, New Jersey gov-
ernor Christine Todd Whitman and
Secretary of Education Bill Bennett.

The original date was changed from
March to January in the hope of facili-
tating a more useful political experiment.

“The date change was initiated pri-
marily to preserve the predictive na-
ture of Mock Con,” Schweppe said.
“If we had kept the March 3 date, we

 

_v
 me
“P.

  200

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

W&L students rushed to the Warner Center to sign up for
favorite state delegations last week. More than 1,300 students
are currently participating in Mock Con preparations.

would have followed 12 to 13 primaries,
but now it will definitely be more of an
experiment and generate more interest.”

Although the actual convention is
still three months away, the festivities
continue this weekend with the Presi-
dential Gala, to be held on Nov. 5 from

9:00 — l :00 p.m. in the Warner Center.
Tickets and memorabilia go on sale
Monday in the University Center.

“Mock Con is such a great way for the
whole school to work together.” Binette
said. “Excitement is building all over cam-
pus as the convention gets closer.”

 

W&L’s student musicians
sttutted their stuff as they
performed for parents.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Parents greeted b

 

 

y sounds of music

 

LEE CHAPEL TOGA PARTY: (Above) Acapella group Southern Comfort makes an
entrance worthy of Caesar himself. JubiLee and General Admission also
performed before a packed house during the annual Parents’ Weekend
Acapella Concert on Saturday evening.

PLAYIN’ THE NIGHT AWAY : (Left) The University Orchestra, Wind Esemble and
Jazz Band worked together to put on a wonderful show in Lenfest on Saturday
night. “It’s great to be able to perform for the parents,” junior Lauren LaFauci
said. “I’ve had so much fun doing a concert with the strings and jazz band, since
we all don’t normally get the opportunity to play together at the same time.”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

  

 

 

UPCOMIHQ events . . . Wednesday, November 3
. 5 10:00 am. Sophomores begin Winter Term web
I . i - A I registration.
5:00 p.m. Alpha Epsilon Delta Health Profes-
' ‘ sions Seminar. “Veterinary School
Admissions,” Joyce Bohr, Virginia-
Maryland Regional College of Veteri
nary Medicine. Room 316, VMI New
Science Building.
Thursday, November 4
8:00 p.m. Lecture. “Chaucer and the Language
of Morals,” Michael Kuczynski,
V v Tulane University. Room 214,
, . Science Center.
Monday, November 1
. 10:00 am. Juniors begin Winter Term web regisI1a- Friday’ N0‘/ember 5
*  mm‘ » _ , , 10:00 am. Freshmen begin Winter Term web
4:30 p.m. Facultyr:eeung.NonhenAudnonmn, . registration
7,00,“ “L Lectmel_ «Cons?-tiona] Reform in Great 9:00p.m.- Mock Convention Gala featuring The
, g . . . =Bﬁmh,, Prof-_ Donaldsmdlm.’ west 1:00 am. Dirty Dozen Brass Band. Doremus
Room 327, Williams Gym
School. ~-
7:30 p.m. Lecture. “Environment, Population, & Sui"-lr'daY. N0‘/ember 6
 - . Consuntptionpzg Time ‘ofBreakdown-or 8;00.p.m. University-Shenandoah Symphony
Breakth'rouigh?,”“Dr. Norman Myers; ox ‘ 7 ‘5 " ‘ ’-Orchestra, Keller Theatre, Lenfest
ford University. Northen Auditorium. Center.

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - l1:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

Q

3

‘H

 

NOVEMBER 1, 1999

 in s

PAGE 5 '1

Football clinches close

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

For the second straight year the
W&L football team would need a seem-
ingly miraculous finish to give their
parents a victory on their weekend.
And for the second straight year an
onside kick would help provide this
miracle as W&L upended Bridgewater
College 44-38 in a game that left the
parents itching with deja—vu.

Bridgewater struck on their ﬁrst
possession as quarterback Jason Lutz
scrambled eight yards to the endzone
to give the Eagles a 7-0 lead on a drive
dominated by Bridgewater’s running
attack. The Generals would strike back
midway through the second quarter
as senior running back Scott Moses
took a handoff from one yard out for
the game-tying touchdown. The
Eagles next possession chewed up
7:41of the clock and ended on a 12-
yard touchdown pass from Lutz to re-
ceiver Corey Butts giving Bridgewater
a 14-7 lead at the half.

The Eagles would take advantage

of a Christian Batcheller interception
early in the third quarter as a 35-yard

ﬁeld goal gave them a 17-7 lead. But
the Generals would never stop ﬁght-
ing. A fumble recovery led to a Brad
Wiginton ﬁeld goal to cut the lead to
seven, and a blocked ﬁeld goal led to
a 26-yard touchdown pass from
Batcheller to receiver Wes Hardy to
tie the game at 17.

The fourth quarter would feature
15 of the most exciting minutes in
W&L football history. Bridgewater
made the most out oftheir first drive
of the quarter as Lutz would again take
it himself for a touchdown, this time
from 25 yards out, for a 24-17 lead. The
Generals responded with another
Wiginton ﬁeld goal to cut the lead to
four but a Bridgewater touchdown
pass from Lutz to Robert Ziegenfuss
apparently put the game out of reach
for W&L. W&L tacked on another
ﬁeld goal with 1:06 to play, but the
parents would have to pray for a re-
covered onside kick for the ‘second
straight year if their sons were to have

OT win

 
   

Photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

STICK AND MOVE: Freshman Davis White eludes an onslaught of
Bridgewater defenders during Saturday’s overtime win.

any chance at beating the Eagles.
Prayer answered. Freshman
comerback Matt Conners would re-
cover the kick at the General 49 yard
line to give W&L a glimmer of hope.
This glimmer became a lot brighter
when Batcheller found senior receiver
J,T. Malatesta in the endzone for six,
and then hooked up with Malatesta
again for the game tying two-point
conversion. The game would be de-
cided in overtime for the first time in
W&L history.

Bridgewater cashed in on their ﬁrst
possession on a 2-yard touchdown
run by Davon Cruz, but the Generals
would respond on their ﬁrst play from
scrimmage in the extra frame on a 25-
yard strike from Batcheller to freshman
running back Chris Sullivan to send
the game into its second overtime pe-
riod.

Batcheller hit Malatesta in the
endzone once again to give W&L a
six-point lead, but a missedextrapoint
meant the Generals’ defense needed

to come up big. The Eagles were shut
down four straight plays, and W&L
hung on to its wildest victory, since
well, last parent’s weekend, 44-38.

The win was the Generals third
straight to even up their record at 4-4.
It also marked the second straight week
W&L came from behind, a trademark
that victimized them often earlier in the
year. Batcheller and Malatesta pro-
vided another chapter in their excel-
lent careers together. Batcheller went
24-44 for 309 yards and four touch-
downs. Malatesta amassed 122 of
those yards, and two of those touch-
downs, not to mention the crucial two-
point conversion. Junior linebacker Ja-
son Lipsey led the W&L defense with
an astounding 25 tackles.

The Generals look to climb above
the 500 mark for the ﬁrst time this sea-
son as they travel to Emory and Henry.
Heading into yesterdays contest the
Wasps were only one half game be-
hind the ODAC leaders. Catholic. Kick-
offis set for 1:00.

Mens’ soccer ups ODAC record

By Robert Turner

S TA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s mens' soc-
cer team had an up and down week.
gaining another ODAC victory
Wednesday at Bridgewater before fall-
ing to Salisbury State at home on Sat-
urday.

The Generals, led by two goals from
sophomore Andrew Grimes, kept their
ODAC winning streak alive Wednes-
day, defeating an overmatched
Bridgewater squad 4-2.

The game was a close contest for
awhile, as after Grimes scored his first
goal Bridgewater came back with two
goals of their own to take the lead.

Senior Jason Miller tied the game
with a goal in the 3 1st minute, and the
Generals went on to dominate the sec-
ond half.

Senior Matt Arnold scored midway
through the half before Grimes added
another gaol in the match’s final
minute.

“I can say that that goal was prob-
ably the best goal of my career given
the circumstances ofthe game,” said
Arnold.

The team returned home Saturday
for a non-conference game against
nationally ranked Salisbury State be-
fore a parents’ weekend crowd.

The Generals fought hard in their
regular season ﬁnale, but came upjust

a little short in their upset bid, losing
1-0.

The game’s only goal came from
Seagull Joe lskow in the 39th minute.
Both teams had numerous other
chance, but the defense for both teams
held strong.

The Generals’ best chance came in
the match’s closing minutes when se-
nior Ben Thompson slid a shot past
the Seagulls’ goalie that was deflected
out of the goal by another Salisbury
defender.

The Generals’ quest for the conference
title begins Tuesday, November 6 in the
ODAC tournament. Time and location are
still to be announced as the rest of the
conference wraps up regular season play.

* * Up.
Ski all season long for 599.

Think there's nothing to do during the week? Well, head to.-
Virginia’s Blue Ridge Mountains, where you'll find Wintergreen '
Resort. Wintergreen ollers a new quad lift and over 19 slopes and
trails. For both skiers and snowboarders, we also have one of the
region's best terrain parks with Virginia's only halt-pipe. And during
our 25th anniversary season, you can ski all you want for just $99,
with Wintergreen's Ski 'til you drop Season Pass.*

So, call us today at 1-804-325-8165 or visit us on the Web

at www.\NintergreenResort.com And get in on a deal
that’s simply too good to pass up.

*I\lol valid Sunday mornings, Saturdays or Holiday periods.

Up. Down.

VlRGlNlA
IS F
l0VEK$

‘Til next year

Women’s soccer ﬁnishes year

Looking ahead

VB ready for ODAC tourney

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

What a long trip it’s been for the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team, who battled through injury after in-
jury to make it to the semiﬁnals of the ODAC tournament.
That trip was cut short on Friday as the 4th seeded Gener-
als suffered a tough 2-0 loss to 1st seed Lynchburg.

Lynchburg scored just 1 :50 into the game but the game
remained deadlocked at 1-0, thanks to the Generals’ de-
fense. But with 1:18 remaining in the second half
Lynchburg rocketed the insurance goal into W&L’s net.

“I think we were a little intimidated since we had lost to
Lynchburg once before,” junior Samantha Garbisch said.
Junior captain Shana Levine echoed Garbisch’s sentiments.
“They were fast, but if we had played better, we could have
won.”

Lynchburg outshot the Generals 17-5, and also led in
comer kicks, 10-0. Senior Stephanie McKnight and jun-
ior Lauren Harris combined for seven saves in goal for
the Generals.

The road to the semiﬁnals involved a win in the 1st
round over Virginia Wesleyan, 1-0 on Tuesday. Freshman
Ruth-Hill Yielding scored the winning goal off of a sideline
ﬂip throw by freshman Jenny Thomas. McKnight and Har-
ris combined for the shutout in goal.

“This year was deﬁnitely a character building season,”
Garbisch said. “We ended at a really high point, and if we
can start next year’s season where we left this one, we’ 11 do
very well.”

Head coach Jan I-Iathom agrees. Seniors Deirdre Coyle,
Ansley Miller, and Ginny Jernigan were all sidelined for
most of the season, leaving Stephanie McKnight the only
senior left on the ﬁeld. “What we’ll miss most ﬁom them is
the commitment they brought to the team. It was hard for
them to sit and watch when they wanted to play, but they
came nonetheless. It will have much more of an inﬂuence
on future teams than they will ever see with their own eyes.”

W&L volleyball took out two more ODAC oppo-
nents this week, upping the squad’s conference record
to 10-0 heading into the ODAC tournament this week-
end. The Generals, 19-6 overall and ranked fust in the
conference, easily handled Roanoke and Randolph-
Macon.

W&L went on the road to trounce Roanoke in three
games on Tuesday (15-5, 15-5, 15-6.) The team returned
to face Randolph-Macon iii a front of a home crowd of
supportive parents. The ladies didn’t let their folks
down, slaughtering the Yellow Jackets 15-0 in the fnst
game. The next two games were closer,l5-12 and 15-9,
but the Generals held on for their 23rd consecutive
regular season ODAC victory.

Leading the way was sophomore middle blocker
Lindsay Ruckert who ﬁred 12 kills and three blocks.
Senior outside hitter Nancy Reinhait ﬁnished her last
regular season contest with nine kills and 15 digs.
Sophomore outside hitter Lee Charbonet totaled eight
kills, ﬁve aces, and ﬁve digs. Contributing the most
assists was junior setter Katherine Kline with 18.

A ceremony honoring standout senior Nancy
Reinhart was held between the second and third games.
Reinhart holds seven different W&L volleyball records
in addition to her two ODAC records for most career
kills and digs. She was ODAC Player of the Year her
sophomore season and ﬁrst team all ODAC her junior
year. Reinhart’s parents were on hand to take part in
the ceremony.

Reinhart and her teammates will have a chance to
break more records as the squad heads to Hollins this
weekend for the ODAC tournament. W&L claims the
top seed in the tournament and a tournament champi-
onship will earn them a guaranteed berth in the na-
tional tournament.

Mens’ Basketball loses coach

By Heather M‘cDonald

STAFF WRITER

Head basketball and golf coach
Kevin Moore resigned from his posi-
tion on Oct. 26 to “explore other em-
ployment opportunities.” Former as-
sistant basketball coach Jeff Lafave
will be the interim coach for the up-
coming season.

Moore’s sudden resignation after
the basketball season started came as
a surprise to the assistant coaches and
the team. Lafave said that the coaches
were briefed that day, about two hours
before practice.

“We didn’t have much notice,”
Lafave said. Director of Athletics Mike
Walsh said that Moore came to him
about two weeks before Moore re-
signed to discuss the situation.

“I was surprised, but he felt it was
something he wanted to do, and some-
thing he should to at this time,” Walsh
said. “My ﬁrst reaction when he told
me was ‘Geez, what are we going to
do?’”

According to Walsh, Moore said
that he felt it was a good time to resign
and it was better for himself and for
his family.

“Although the season is just start-
ing, I believe this move is right for my
family, the team and me at this time,”
Moore said in the Oct. 26 news release.
“The team has a strong group of up-
perclassmen returning and some good
freshmen coming in. I wish them all
the best.”

Walsh said that Moore may have
been inﬂuenced by last year’s season.

The team was plagued by internal di-
vision, resulting in the loss of then-
junior Rich Peterson before the last
game. Peterson was a key starter in
the game, but quit after an argument
with the coaches.

Furthermore, in his four years at
W&L, Moore compiled a 21-77 record
for men’s basketball.

“A lack of success can take the fun
out of any work endeavor,” Walsh
said.

Walsh said that Moore had no job
lined up at the time ofhis resignation,
but felt it was a good time to search
the job market.

Lafave said that the team does look
promising this year, and that Moore’s
departure should not disrupt the sea-
son.

“lt’s not like we didn’t have any-
thing [for the season] worked out yet,”
Lafave said. “We are picking up and
moving forward.” He said that the team
has a great level of athleticism and a
lot of shooters from the perimeter. The
team’s only weakness, Lafave said, is
that there are only two players who
are 6’6 or taller, and will make rebound-
ing tough.

Lafave said he deﬁnitely will be
applying for the job of permanent head
coach once the athletic department
starts accepting applications after Jan.
1. '

“I’m excited about this season and
having it as an opportunity to stay and
test my coaching and organization
skills,” Lafave said.

The team is also optimistic about
this season, although Moore’s resig-

nation did cause a stir. Sophomore?
guard Quincy Springs said the team:
will miss Moore, but the team isn’ti

going to let this stop them.

“It was really emotional when '
[Moore] broke the news,” Springs said. 
“We have two capable and energetic i
coaches. They have big shoes to ﬁll, L

but they’re up to thejob.”

Springs added that with strong re- 
turning players and promising fresh- I
men, the team bonded only a few;

weeks into the season.

“It will be a productive year for the 
Generals, whether the win-loss column 

shows it or not,” Springs said.

Council Travel

Student Travel
from A to 2

(AL

      
    

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 21?
Amsterdam 196

From Washington C
each way based on a rt
purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures

in November and are
subject to change.

Restrictions apply.

1-800-ZCOUNCIL

www.council.traveL.com

K|D’S DAY oUT

Sponsored by Women’s Lacrosse

Games, movies, and swimming for kids of all ages

Sunday, November 7, 12:30 p.m.-4p.m. in Doremas Gym
$10 for firstehild, $5 for each additional child

Queetiorie? Call Alieon Offeriburger at 465—8679

u..u.u.¢.u-q.uq..v.q-.--u~.-.-.vn-ar-.. .;

 

 

 

Clip: ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSl'I‘Y’S TlllRI)—F.-\\'()RI'I‘E WI:EI<I.v NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 102, No.12

Brain cells now A

outnumbered
by SUV’s at W&L

Neurons also outnumbered by Texans

By Buddy Cole

STAFF WRITER

He already has four, but senior Whit
Nelson wanted another SUV. “I like
‘em,” Nelson said. “I like ‘em cuz they
big.” Nelson, an anthropology major
with a staggering 1.4 GPA, currently
has nearly twice as many Sports Util-
ity Vehicles as he has brain cells.

Nelson is only part ofthe problem
at W&L; a problem which has grown
to epidemic proportions over the past
few years. For the first time in school
history, there are more SUV’s on cam-
pus than IQ points.

“I find this trend disturbing and
distressing,” President Elrod said, “If
for no other reason than because it’s
already hard enough to park in Lex-
ington without those P"**ing behe-
moths taking up space.”

This is the most shocking devel-
opment since earlier this year when it
was discovered that there are now

more Texans at W&L than brain cells.
“This is a sad day for W&L, but a great
day for barbecue.” Elrod noted at the
time.

How did W&L find itself in this sad
state? According to brain surgeon Dr.
Wes Collier, “A human brain may con-
tain up to 100 billion neurons. But re-
member that alcohol kills brain cells at
a remarkable rate. W&L is like an
Auschwitz for brain cells.”

It is estimated that between fresh-
man and senior year, the average W&L
student will alcoholically slaughter be-
tween 98-140 percent of their original
brain cells. How is it possible to kill
140%? “Remember that once people
lose 99% of their brain cells, their math
skills become somewhat diminished.”
Collier said.

Not everyone is quite so dumb, ob-
viously. Some philosophy professors
have the full 100 billion, while most
tenured History professors boast up
to twelve functioning brain cells. Then
there are others who throw off the

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

curve. Some people are so
mesmerizingly stupid thatjust being
around them will lower your IQ. These
people have negative brain cells, or
what is known as “programmer syn-
drome,” so-called because the first
group widely diagnosed with this dis-
order were television programmers.
According to the Student Health
Center, the current campus average is
4-5 brain cells per person. This means
that, with the advent of on-board com-
puters, most SUV’s are now smarter

W&L Swarthmoriﬁcation
process nears completion

Only Swarthmore provided the right combination of rig-

By Herman Menderchuck

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Yesterday feminist scholar Diane Whyner-Lott was ap-
pointed the endowed chair of the newly-forrned Lesbian
Literary Studies department, marking another step in
W&L’s bid to become Swarthmore. If all goes according to
plan, W&L could be Swarthmore by the end ofthe term.

“This is exciting time for Washington and Gloria Steinem
University,” President Elrod said, reflecting the recent ofﬁ-
cial name change ofour school. (It was decided that being
named after a Confederate General, and two white males at
that, was simply too culturally insensitive).

The Swarthmoriﬁcation process began in earnest ear-
lier this year, and the administration struggled to ﬁnd the
right Northern school to model ourselves aﬂer. “At first
we looked into becoming Williams, Brown or even Sarah
Lawrence,” Dean of Students David Howison said. “But in
the end we decided that when W&L is finally dragged
kicking and screaming ten years behind the rest of academia,
Swarthmore is the way to go.”

ordus academics, feel-good liberal activism and forced di-
versity programs that met the exacting criteria the adminis-
tration was looking for.

When the Swarthmorifrcation policies took affect on
campus, it was only a matter of weeks before Assistant
Dean Courtney Penn was giving talks on overcoming
“ableism, racism and heterophobia.” The next step was the
addition of the African Womyn’s Studies major, the Les-
bian Literary Studies Department, the Disabled Left-Handed
Indonesian-American Religious Studies Department and
the intercollegiate mah-j ong team.

Next week the sexist fraternity system will be abolished,
with houses either closed altogether or forced to go co-ed.
The final step of the Swarthmoriﬁcation program will be
tearing down the historic Colonnade and replacing it with
buildings that have that authentic “Swarthmore, Pennsyl-
vania charm.”

“Watch out Oberlin, Middlebury and NYU! Washing-
ton and Gloria Steinem is on the move, and we’re not

SEE ‘MORE SWARTHMORE’ ON PAGE 2

Wacky “littering” prank
Cadavers’ zaniest yet!

By Rod Torfulson

STAFF W IUTER

Those merry pranksters of W&L,
the Cadaver society, have struck a
blow for lunacy once again! Wednes-
day morning, the W&L campus awoke
to find that the madcap misﬁts ofthe

Cadavers had perpetrated another one
of their hilarious pranks on the Colon-
nade. This time thejovial jokesters. . .
getthis. . . LITTERED ALL OVERTI-IE
CAMPUS!

“When I walked to class Wednes-
day morning, I noticed that there was
trash all over the place,” said sopho-
more Rianna Jacobs. “I knew right

November 1, 1999
OPINION:

sodomy?

W&L1EE:

call up reserves.

SPORTS:
Who the hell cares?

LAST WORD:

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬁhi

So just what’s so honorable about rape and

Sorority houses near completion: perverts

The same old tired nonsense.

PAGE 3

PAGE 5

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

away it had to be those wacky Cadav-
ers. I mean, littering all over campus
— who else could come up with some-
thing that creative?”

Upon closer inspection, the “trash”
turned out to be slips of paper with
the unforgettable insignia of this great
secret society upon it. Their symbol is
a dour looking skull with a large letter
“C” behind it - a “C” that doubtlessly
stands for all of the “crazy capers” the
cooky Cadavers have concocted over
the years. Among the hilarious pranks
the Cadavers have perpetrated include
a prank last September in which they
put their trash all over campus, one
last April when they littered on the
Colonnade, and their crowning glory
last February when they put slips of
paper in trees and bushes.

“Oh, we don’t mind the Cadavers’
good-natured prankery,” said head of
security Mike Young. “In fact, some-
times I envy the spirited scamps. What

» better way for young men to spend a

late night than walking around the Hill
in masks putting little slips ofpaper in
trees and bushes?”

Yes, W&L is lucky that the Krazy
Kadavers are here to keep us on our
toes. Who knows what amusing an-
tics these precocious princes of
pranksterism will dream up next?

 

plIoto)y Emily Barnes/Plioto Editor
Just one of the 14,437 gleaming SUV’s proudly owned by
Washington and Lee students.

than the Southerner driving them.

Many W&L professors report hav-
ing to dumb-down the academic load
to accommodate the new brainally—de—
prived student body. “I used to grade
students on their ability to write clearly,
prove a thesis and back-up their argu-
ments with textual evidence,” English
Professor Kary Smout said. “Now I
grade mainly on a student’s ability to
keep drool offtheir papers.”

Things are only likely to get worse,
with no beer shortage in sight and
GM’s recent unveiling of their 2000
“t‘IberSUV,” a vehicle that’s over three
city blocks long. Doubtlessly every
South Carolinan’s Christmas list will

SEE ‘SUV’ ON PAGE 2

IE‘

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999

Honor Code broken
19,400 times during
Parents’ Weekend

By Al Miller

STAFF WRITER

The beer can collection was “his
roommates’.” He did “pretty well” on
his French midtenn. And why were
there what looked like puke stains
caked on his bed sheets? “I was really
sick last week.” These are just a few of
the 48 lies freshman Justin Hopkins
told his parents last weekend.

Freshman Dana Semanaro is no
stranger to lying éither. When dad
asked her ifthere were any new men
in her life, Dana told him that there was
one “really nice guy” she’d gone on
“a couple ofdates with.” But the four-
teen hook-ups and eight handjobs
Dana has dispensed to various
fratboys over the past two months
seemed to slip her mind, adding up to
twenty-four big lies ofomission.

EC President Jeff Cook estimates
that as many as 19,400 blatant, bald-
faced lies may have passed through
the lips of W&L students over Par-
ents’ weekend. “Unfortunately, few of
these lies are reported as the parents
aren’t about to turn their kids in and
flush 80 grand down the toilet." Cook
said. F urthermore, parents are psycho-
logically programmed to overlook ob-
vious lies. A happy lie about your
child is always easier than the gritty
truth about what a .waste your genes

have helped create.

According to Cook, the number of
lies told on campus usually remains
steadily between 2,000—3,000 during a
normal weekend. For instance, Junior
Thomas Ince estimates that he lied
“probably about 160 times,” while he‘
was trying to get freshman Lisa
Edwards to sleep with him. “I told her
how much I loved her and how I
wanted to make our relationship ‘more
special’ or some s**t like that.” Ince
said. “You know, the usual lies.”

But the number of honor violations
balloons over Parents’ Weekend. Ly-
ing isn’t the only honor violation that
goes on. Every time a student asks
mom for more “food money” that they
know full well is going for beer, they
are stealing.

The estimated 19,400 lies told in one
weekend is a stunning new record for
W&L. There will probably not be so
many lies told in such a short time until
the Republican Mock Convention.

No, Sparky, this page is
not real.

It was produced, edited
and directed by The Last
Word.

All quotes were entirely
fabricated —— please don’t
sue, President Elrod!

VTHE SOUTH RISES AGAIN. This first assault on Washington was abandoned after the troops ran low
on vital supplies like gunpowder and beer.

WHITE MEN IN SUITS INVADE CAMPUS! The shocking story on page 4.

I

 

 

Arc/In

, 43 ';‘Jl<-3 ‘tbff.

‘.-

P

  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
     
  
  
 
  
     
 
  
   
    
    
    
    
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

\e V4‘,
I F

\,».
v. - F:
..

I" 4

0.

:
I , '‘
c»
or‘

VOLUME 102, No.13

Local coffee shop
closes abruptly

The Ruse, owned by two W&L alums,
shuts down on it’s ﬁrst anniversary

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

The Ruse abruptly ended only a
year after it began.

On the one year anniversary of
the opening of the only late-night
coffee shop in town, owners Dow
Harris and Rich Walter closed down
the Ruse, without any prior warning
to the public. To celebrate the anni-
versary, Harris produced a three—act
play he had written, entitled
“Sedalian Vision.”

In the play, one man took over the
airwaves, but Harris’ character gath-
ered together a group of “tele-rang-
ers” to overthrow the one man in
power. Then, there were many televi-
sion channels to choose from, and
the actors performed parodies of dif-
ferent television shows. In the ﬁnal
act, Harris was sweeping up the ﬂoor
of the Ruse. Then, Walter came up
on stage and began talking about
ideas with Harris, and how both had
dreams they wanted to pursue. How-
ever, a ﬁctional coffee shop that failed
was standing in the way of these
dreams.

Some of the audience began to
wonder if the play was actually reality
at this point. Then, Harris told Walter
that if Walter left, he would crawl out
the window and drive to Alabama to
gather his tele-rangers. Walter then
picked up his guitar and walked out

the door, and then Harris crawled out -

the window. The two stood outside
the window, waved good-bye and

closed the shutters. Then both of them
drove away.

Senior Lora Ellison said that much
of the audience was confused at the
play’s ending.

“It took people a long time to re-
alize what was going on,” Ellison
said. “Some people though it was a
joke.” Ellison was a regular customer,
who went about five times a week to
drink coffee, do homework, and talk
with other people who gathered at
the Ruse.

The Ruse’s landlady was also there
that night and had no idea that Harris
and Walter were planning on closing
shop. About seven customers stayed
to help clean up and close the Ruse
after Harris and Walter left.

“Most people were in shock,”
sophomore Tom Grove said, who
stayed to help out by stacking chairs
and mopping the ﬂoors.

“It’s understandable they had
dreams they wanted to pursue, but
nobody knew,” Grove said. “It’s so
sad.”

Both Harris and Walter are 1998
graduates of Washington and Lee.
The Ruse was their dream to bring
Lexington’s universities and commu-
nity together in an open and creative
setting. They transformed the old
Jordan House on East Nelson Street
into a multi-roomed coffee shop that
often showcased local folk and blue-
grass bands and poetry readings.

It is not known exactly what put
the Ruse out of business a year after
they opened.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

  
  

‘‘ v|‘V.-.,l«:A1-:_.I..'.vyLj.Il‘l| L.‘ 7""

VVASHINGWON Ev. l..l‘-LE UNIVERSIW

l.FT%”‘-557.‘-TDl‘J, VA 24450

I

‘II
M
i *3. ,1.) V.
3 ‘rfﬁﬁﬁ

x"l!£I

4» M-.

nkﬁué“

I

r 4/

9

  
    
 
 

' ¥_ .,.a

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

NOTHING GOING ON BEHIND CLOSED DOORS: The Ruse coffee shop, which has stood vacant since
Halloween. Owners Rich Walter and Dow Harris announced the surprise closing during their

ﬁrst anniversary celebration.

“[Harris and Walter] called it a fail-
ure, but there were many, many good
things that came out of it,” Ellison
said. “I know people who were abso-
lutely crushed when they realized the
Ruse was closing.” Ellison said that
she, studied abroad last term, and she
told stories about the Ruse to people
she met in London.

“This was the part of Lexington
that I was in love with and wanted to
come back to,” Ellison said.

Students respond weakly to
diversity education workshops

Offered due to recent events, workshops elicit little interest

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Assistant Dean of Students
Courtney Penn has always seen a need
for diversity education at Washington
and Lee University and consequently
planned workshops on the issue.

“These recent campus issues high-
light the need for us to have the work-
shops,” Penn Said. “There’s so much
ignorance out there, even among ex-
tremely bright students. It’s a cycle of
being socialized in the United States
that has oppression so entwined that
we don’t notice.”

Penn hopes his new workshops will
educate students about the origins
and impact of stereotypes in today’s
diverse population.

Several campus incidents this year
have called W&L’s willingness to ac-
cept diversity into question. One
freshman left before matriculation be-
cause of a fraternity member’s anti-
Semitic and racist remarks. A disc
jockey on W&L’s campus radio sta-
tion, WLUR, made homophobic re-
marks about the president of the Ex-
ecutive Committee. Another student
ran on an anti-gay platform in his un-
opposed bid for a class presidency.

“Due to our homogeneity, we, as
an institution, have a responsibility to
make sure students are intentionally
taught to be clear about these issues,”
Penn said. “Workshops like this are
going to be more and more common
as America becomes more diverse.”

But few students are going to the

workshops. Nine students are enrolled
in the four-week workshop and 10 are
enrolled in an intensive one-day work-
shop.

“I’m disappointed with the num-
bers because I know more people than
that have expressed interest,” Penn
said.

Some students haven’t heard about
the workshops despite computer
broadcast mailings, ﬂiers around cam-
pus, and brief articles in campus news-
papers. Others know about them but
don’t plan on attending.

“This workshop is deﬁnitely a good
thing considering our recent problems
around campus,” freshman Bart Peters
said. “But I don’tthink I’ll go.”

SEE ‘DIVERSE’ ON PAGE 2

-4‘ 

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor

INDIAN SUMMER: A student uses the unseasonably warm weather to study on the Front Lawn.

  

 

 ﬁlial ‘

U112 iitng-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

vi

.2199!)
i

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1999

   VMI rat

beaten

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

A Virginia Military Institute fresh-
man remains in the school’s inﬁnnary
after being beaten by fellow cadets Fri-
day. '

Theodore P. Francis, 18, of North-
em Virginia was apparently beaten

early Friday morning by ﬁve freshmen i

cadets, according to VMI spokesman
Chuck Steenburgh. Frances was
treated at the VMI inﬁrmary for cuts
and bruises, then taken to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. The X-rays turned
up no additional injuries.

In an interview with the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, Steenburgh de-
scribed the beating this way: “Early
this morning [Friday] at 4 a.m., ﬁve
fourth-classmen apparently entered
the room of another fourth-classman,
restrained him and proceeded to strike
him about the head and shoulders. It
drew some blood. He was taken to our
post hospital, or infirmary, and
treated.”

Student investigators, who will re-
port to the school’s Executive Com-
mittee on the incident, are question-

SEE ‘BEATING’ ON PAGE 2

Mock Convention stepping
up momentum as event nears

Tightened schedule intensiﬁes fundraising to foot $270,000 bill

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

The 2000 Republican Mock Con-
vention is revving up. So is the price
tag.

Mock Convention General Chair-
man Mark Schweppe said that by the
time the ﬁnal balloon drops on Satur-
day, Jan. 29, one of Washington and
Lee’s largest student—run activities
will have spent $270,000.

“We want to do some things not
done before. . . [and] the 1996 Con-
vention is a tough act to follow,”
Schweppe said. “Things are coming
together because we’ve got a lot of
people working really hard.”

Mock Con will have about $200,000
after the Presidential Gala this week-
end. Schweppe isn’t too concerned
about raising the rest of the money.

“We’re in the heart of fund-rais-
ing season right now,” Schweppe
said.

Mock Con has two fund-raising
projects still lined up. They will
send letters to students’ parents on
Monday. Students will call parents
and alumni who haven’t given
money the week before Thanksgiv-
ing break. Alumni have already
given about $15,000 through letter
campaigns.

“We want more from alumni and at
least $40,000 more in all fund-raising
efforts,” Schweppe said.

Mock Con based their budget on
the 1996 Convention’s actual ex-
penses. Individual state delegations
are responsible for raising their own
funds through contacting businesses
and philanthropic organizations in
their state. Mock Con is contacting
parents and alumni through its own
campaign.

Schweppe said one main ﬁnancial
consideration for the 2000 Mock Con-
vention is rising speakers fees. He
gave former vice-presidential candi-
date Jack Kemp as an example of the
higher fees. He said Kemp, who they
don’t plan on asking next year, cost
the Convention $30,000 at its 1995
Kickoff and now charges double for
an appearance. But Schweppe said
Mock Con must pay such high fees.

“The big name speakers that make
the Convention are expensive,”

Schweppe said. 4

Schweppe said conservative
writer Bill Bennett is the only con-
ﬁrmed speaker so far. He said Bennett
is still negotiating a speaking fee with
Mock Con through Political Chairman
David Dardis, who has worked for him.

They’ve sent invitations to speak
to all of the Republican presidential
nominees and Representative .I.C.
Watts of Oklahoma.

Other Mock Con costs include a
$21,000 facilities budget. Schweppe
said building a stage and renting a
sound system and projection screen
for the Warner Center isn’t cheap.
Mock Con will also pay technicians
for their help with the rented equip-
ment and Physical Plant employees for
construction and maintenance help
over the weekend. Additionally, Mock
Con must rent a lot of the equipment
journalists need in the Press Room.

Political publication subscrip-
tions, security at the Convention,
decorations and other publicity and
travel expenses for speakers must
come out of Mock Con’s pocket as
well. Schweppe said Mock Con
even pays if they choose to have
an elephant or some clowns in the
parade.

Mock Con has stepped up fund-
raising efforts after their decision
to move up the Convention from its
original March 3rd and 4th dates,
Schweppe said.

“When we moved up the date, we
lost five‘weeks of fund raising,”
Schweppe said.

Mock Con established two new
raffles this year to make up for the
lost time. They held a rafﬂe for par-
ents over Parents Weekend that fea-
tured a free stay at W&L’s Morris
House next year. The University
donated that prize and local mer-
chants donated other prizes for the

raffle. Mock Con made about $1,000
from the rafﬂe.

For the students, Mock Con orga-
nized a Presidential Gala rafﬂe that fea-
tured a weekend at the Homestead
and some other prizes donated by 10-
cal merchants. Mock Con treasurer
Carolyn Richardson said that raffle
has “gone over well” and expects an-
other $1,000 from the effort.

Schweppe said the major portion
of Mock Con’s budget comes» from
the Dallas-based Hatton W. Sumners
Foundation for the Study and Teach-
ing of the Science of Self-Govem-
ment, which donates a little Over
$25,000 every year. That adds up to a
total ofjust over $100,000 for each
Mock Convention.

They also received about $40,000
from the Executive Committee, which
derives its funds from every W&L
student’s activity fee.

Mock Con decided to boost the del-
egate fee this year to $20 from l996’s
$15. Every student who wants to be on
a state delegation and stay on the ﬂoor
during the Convention must pay the
fee. With 1,300 delegates signed up so
far, Mock Con has made $6,500 more in
delegate fees than the 1996 Conven-
tion. Schweppe said his committee de-

cided the rise in price would really help
after the date moved up.

With the Presidential Gala kicking
off festivities this past weekend,
Mock Con has a simple goal.

‘‘We’ 11 be happy if we break even,”
Schweppe said. “Our main purpose
this weekend is to get people excited
about Mock Con.”

November 8, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:
God’s report card

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

L}

Clip: Ring-tum ilﬂlri

President of the Universe

Volleyball heads NCAA tournament

McManemin: Love Doctor

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

 @l12iKing-tum lﬁhi

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

‘BEATING’ from page 1

ing the ﬁve freshmen that are suspected in the attack. The
Executive Committee is made up of nine studentjudges
who could acquit the students or recommend disciplinary
proceedings, including dismissal from the school.

Steenburgh said that VMI officials had some idea of the
motive for the attack, but that at this time would not elaborate.
He also stressed that the attack was a unique “blanket party
kind of thing.” A blanket party, in military jargon, is an attack
during which the victim is held under a blanket and beaten.

“This is not a common occurrence,” Steenburgh said.
“Cadets have impromptu wrestling matches once in awhile,
but they’re good natured. This was different. . . There were
blood stains in the room.”

According to a VMI second classman who wished to
remain anonymous, the attack was most likely the result of
an encouraged campus attitude of“policing one’s own.”
The source said that ifa cadet is not up to the standards of
his peers, that the student’s fellow cadets are encouraged
to make sure that person is brought in line. This attack was

‘DIVERSE’ from page 1

unique, however, because it involved physical violence.

“It has always been a wake-up call to the person, but
with no physical violence done to them,” the source said.
“A cadet may be wrapped up in their mattress and left
naked in the shower all night, but never beaten. There may
be just a little damage done to their pride, but we don’t
beat them. Violence like that is not tolerated.”

This is not the ﬁrst violent episode the school has seen
in recent years. Last year, six cadets were expelled for lying
about a series of spankings. In 1997, a freshman accused
seniors of striking him and ﬁve other freshmen with a belt.
And in 1996, six students were suspended for assaulting a
freshman classmate, and nine more cadets were disciplined
for their roles in the attack.

The student group investigating the debacle is called
the Ofﬁcer of the Guard Association, and is made up of 12
members, one from each cadet company. The nine—member
Executive Committee is made up of the three class ofﬁcers
from each of the three upper classes.

Penn fears W&L students dismiss any attempt at diver.-
sity discussion as “a PC attempt.”

“That’s not what this is about,” Penn said. “This is
about being a part ofa civil community and I don’t think
students can learn this when we are as homogenous as we
are, it doesn’tjust happen by accident. This [workshop]
can broaden students’ horizons.”

Penn’s new workshops follow W&L’s recent efforts at
boosting diversity on campus. The University has placed
more emphasis in past years on minority enrollment and
discussion of diversity issues.

Penn’s workshops will educate students on the causes
of oppressive behavior.

“I explore these issues from a theory that oppression is

really the culprit of all of the inequality and social injustice

in the world,” Penn said.

Penn said everyone is an agent or target of oppression
at times. Individuals, organizations and societies can ex-
hibit oppressive behavior and attitudes to a variety of
groups.

Penn has three goals for his students. One is increasing
personal awareness on oppression and diversity.

“I want to help students learn more about how they feel
about different issues relating to diversity,” Penn said,
“whether sexism or race relations or any group issue.”

Penn also tackles stereotypes with the help of reading
materials and open forums of discussion.

“The workshops will feature experiences that allow stu-
dents to talk freely on perceptions and to explore their
origins,” Penn said. “Stereotypes come from some truths,
but they’re overgeneralized and take away from an
individual’s identity.”

Finally, Penn wants students to leave the workshops

 

Film Society presents “Character”

The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film
Society will be the 1998 Academy Award winner for Best
Foreign Language Film, Character (Netherlands, 1997), di-
rected by Mike van Diem. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on
Friday and Saturday, Nov. 12 and 13 in the Troubadour
Cinema, at the comer of Main and Henry Streets. As al-
ways, there is no charge for admission, although contribu-
tions are gratefully received. This ﬁlm is in Dutch with
English subtitles.

This visually stunning film is set in 1920s Rotterdam,
and the plot revolves around the murder of a ruthless slum-
lord and the relationship between him and his murderer.
Character is the “dark, bitter, and fascinating” (Roger Ebert)
story of a boy growing up in poverty and harshness and
ﬁnding his own success to be a means of punishing his
own father.

Day to speak at Ethics Institute

Louis Day, a professor at Louisiana State University, will
be the keynote speaker for Washington and Lee University’s
28th Annual Institute on the Ethics of Journalism. Day will
deliver a public lecture on Friday, Nov. 12 at 4:30 pm. in
Room 327 of the Williams School of Commerce.

Day teaches media law and ethics in the Manship School
of Mass Communication at LSU. He has written numerous
articles and papers on the legal liabilities and responsibili-
ties of the media and is the author of Ethics in Media Com-
munications: Cases and Controversies, a widely used col-
lege text on media ethics. Before embarking on his teach-
ing career, Day worked as a television journalist in Georgia
and as a military public affairs ofﬁcer in Washington, D.C.
and Vietnam.

The Institute on the Ethics of Journalism is part of W&L’s

~ program in applied ethics, Society and the Professions, which
‘brings nationally recognized scholars to campus to engage

in classroom and public discussions on ethics in the ﬁelds
of law, medicine, business and journalism.

Moot Court to argue current case
Only ﬁve years ago, Congress passed a law designed
to protect women from domestic violence and sexual abuse.
It is called the Violence Against Women Act.

But is the Violence Against Women Act constitutional?
The Supreme Court recently announced that it would con-
sider that question. The Supreme Court will hear arguments
in Brzonkala v. Morrison this spring. The case involves a
brutal physical assault on a woman attending school at
Virginia Tech who is now attempting to use the Violence
Against Women Act to seek redress. Unfortunately, be-
cause the Supreme Court does not allow cameras or micro-
phones, only those sitting in the Supreme Court gallery
will get to hear, in full, the arguments for and against the
Act.

Unless you are at the Washington and Lee University
School ofl.aw on Thursday. Nov, 1 1 at 4 run. For one and

prepared to change their communities.

“[Students learn] how not to be part of an oppressive
community around them,” Penn said.

Penn thinks all students can grasp concepts offered in
the workshops.

“These are the simple things we try to do, it’s not brain
surgery or rocket science,” Penn said. “It’s just a small
step in trying to create a more educated student body.”

“We have to challenge these socialized norms because
that will determine the next step,” Penn said, “whether we
discard these norms or perpetuate them.”

Despite students’ acknowledgment of the workshops’
importance, few are actually attending. Of those students,
most aren’t new to the issue and have participated in other
campus diversity groups like PRIDE.

“There is a tendency to preach to the choir,” Penn said.
“But in reality the choir needs rehearsal too. They re-
hearse to be good at what they do.”

Penn said these students can go into the University
community and really make a difference promoting diver-
sity and cultural understanding.

Freshmen and their parents have been especially sup-
portive of his efforts, Penn said. He’s received several notes
and some verbal encouragement from these parents.

“Parents understand how important it is to be versed
on the issue of diversity,” Penn said. “You must be able to
operate and be comfortable in any environment.”

Penn emphasized the objective intent of his workshops.
“I’m not going to want to change someone’s way of think-
ing,” Penn said. “If you understand why you think a cer-
tain way, you’re honest with yourself about it and you’re
happy with it, ﬁne. I just want to give you an opportunity
to see the larger picture.”

half hours, W&L’s four best oral advocates willargue a
case directly patterned on Brzonkala v. Morrison. Federal
appeals court judges from the third, fourth and eighth cir-
cuits, one level below the Supreme Court, have agreed to
come to Lexington to judge the arguments.

The W&L law students will be taking part in the 20th
annual John W. Davis Moot Court Competition. The com-
petition is named after John W. Davis, an 1892 graduate of
W&L who also earned his law degree from W&L in 1895
and later taught in the Law School. Davis was a 1924 presi-
dential candidate and also served as a congressman, am-
bassador and solicitor general of the U.S.

The competition will take place in the Moot Courtroom
of Sydney Lewis Hall on the W&L campus.

Jasiewicz receives research grant

Krzysztof Jasiewicz, professor of sociology at Wash-
ington and Lee, received a $40,000 grant from the National
Council for Eurasian and East European Research for his
project “The 2000 Presidential Election in Poland.”

J asiewicz's project will prepare a set of data compris-
ing the most important information about voting behav-
ior in the 2000 presidential election in Poland. Data col-
lected will be analyzed in the context of prospects for
political stability in Poland, the debates on voting be-
havior and the nature and social cleavages in a pluralist
democracy.

NCEEER is the largest provider of resources to U.S.
scholars for research in the social, political, economic and
historical development of Russia, Eurasia and East Europe.
These ﬁndings help U.S. policymakers, the academic and
nonproﬁt communities and American businesses better
understand current developments and their signiﬁcance
for the future.

Business Ethics Institute hosts lecture

The Society of the Professions at Washington and Lee
University will hold its 16th annual Business Ethics Insti-
tute and is bringing guest lecturer Patricia H. Werhane to
campus. Her lecture, “Corruption and Moral Risk,” will be
held in Room 221 of the Williams Commerce School on
Friday, Nov. 12 at 4:30 p.m.

Werhane, the Peter and Adeline Rufﬁn chair of busi-
ness ethics and senior fellow of the Olsson Center for Ap-
plied Ethics in the Darden Graduate School of Business
Administration at the University of Virginia, is a founding
member and past president of the Society of Business Eth-
ics and past president of the American Society for Value
Inquiry. From 1989 to 1992 she was chair of the ethics advi-
sory council for Arthur Anderson and Co., which engaged
in a ﬁve—year teaching business ethics project on the inte-
gration of business ethics into traditional business school
disciplines.

Werhane is the author or editor of 13 books, including
Ethical Issues in Business, edited with Tom Donaldson,
Persons, Rights and Corporations and Adam Smith and
His Legacy for Modern Capitalism. She has written exten-
sively on employeeand employer rights, whistle blowing,
mergers and acquisitions, responsibilities of multinational
corporations and insider trading. Her most recent work
focuses on heathcare organizations and on environmental
sustainability.

The public is invited to attend this lecture.

Photo by Emily_Ba—rnes/Photo Editor
TWANG, TWANG, TWANG: Robert Earl Keen performed at the Student Activities Pavilion last

Saturday night as part of the Mock Convention festivities.

Write for the Phi!

If you're interested in getting
involved, send an e—mail to
p/2/@w/L/.ea’u or come to our
weekly meetings Tuesday at 7 p.m.

E11, Put your DIRTY ywunlzv
“ in your DIRTY CAR and

ET OUTTA TOWN!

Head north about 10 miles on Rte. 11 North to Fairfield.

 

FAIRFIELD

SQUARE

SHOPPING CENTER

The area's NEWEST, CLEANEST coin laundry and car wash facilities
are on the left about a 1/4 mile past the Fairfield Texaco.

Open 7 days a week from 7 run. to 9 pm.

‘Self Service Laundry
‘Self Service ¢ar Wash
» -Automatic car wash

...there's even a full menu restaurant
featuring your favorite foods and beverages.

     

Open Tues. 5 -9 .m.
Wed. — Sun. 11:3 am. -9 p.m. (Closed Mondays)

Do your laundry, wash your car, get a delicious meal or snack
and enjoy the clean, modern facilities.
Cleaning your clothes and car
have never been this enioyable!

Donelle - Grmhk Ans & Illustration - 540/464-3351

 

 

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

@112 {Ring-tum lﬂlii

PINION

The President of the
Universe must lead a revolt
against the secular crazies

Government by the politicians, for the politicians and of
the politicians must now come to an end. The barbaric
wars, the extortionary taxes, the eloquent lies, the ruthless
shakedown of companies for campaign contributions as
well as the continuous manipulation of the American people
by the amoral politicians has become intolerable.

Wars are initiated by presidential politicians to enhance
their historical status and poll ratings. Fictional threats to
national security are stridently declared by the politicians

f to justify foreign military intervention and the perpetual

procurement of weapons of mass destruction, i.e. nuclear,
‘chemical and biological.

Trillions of tax dollars are channeled to create a non-
Christian new world order where God is cast aside as He
already is in public pseudo education and at the United
Nations. Terrible moral crimes such as abortion are leg-
islatively condoned by the compromised politicians fa-
cilitated by corrupt court decisions rendered by politi-
callyappointed judges and funded by illicit appropria-
tions.

Note that Bill Bradley and Al Gore are both pro-abor-
tion and pro-homosexuality.

Well over 50 percent of the American children of God
are directly or indirectly dependent on some form of athe-
istic government for a mindless job or bureaucratic dole
provided by Roosevelt’s Social Security and the multitude
of degrading assistance programs which are abused by
the recipients.

Consequently, a humble dependency upon God as the
omnipotent Father and a prayerful weakened by secular
government. Christian culture has been vanquished and,

LETTERS TO

Diversity makes W&L more
competitive and reputable

Dear Editor,

This letter is in response to last week’s letter to the
editor that called on admissions to cut down the level of
diversity at W&L. Allow me to say that the author of that
letter, who bravely refused to sign his name, is an ignorant
fool. Hghas mistaken the word “university” for “beer drink-
ing on a homogeneous campus”. While I’m no going to
argue with beer drinking, homogeneity is not something
that should be a goal of any institution of learning. How-
ever, three things that Anonymous faults W&L with,
“recruit[ing] GPAs, countries, and backgrounds,” should
indeed be goals of the admissions department. If Wash-
ington and Lee wishes to remain one of the premiere insti-
tutions of education in the country, it must diversify its
student body even more, and do so in a hurry, or suffer a
steady decline in the quality of students that arrive here
each fall. Diversiﬁcation at W&L is not a question of lift-
ing up a repressed group of people, but a matter vital to
the survival of this institution.

Every year scores of fully qualiﬁed minorities turn their
backs on W&L because they don’t think they’ll be wel-
comed. I know of four minority students from my high
school alone that were scared away from W&L as soon as
they saw some statistics on the population of minorities
here. Those four are now at Harvard, Yale, Williams, and
NYU, respectively. They simply looked at the numbers.
and didn’t feel that they wanted to be part of that small

@112 ‘tiling-tum Iﬁlii

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Photo Editor Emily Barnes
Assistant Photo Editors Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬁect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
https//wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

in particular, the Christian virtues of faith, hope and char-
ity have been replaced by mother govemment’s intrusive
involvement in every aspect of an individual’s life.

Godless government has evolved into a contemporary
idol of worship where ‘religious services’ are held at the
temples of the White House, the U.S. Capitol and the ﬁfty
state capitol buildings attended by the parishioners of the
news-entertainment industry.

The politicians’ programs of counterfeit compassion
have spawned massive and heartless bureaucracies
staffed by parasitic functionaries who choose not to
employ their God given talents for which they will be
held accountable by the President of the Universe. The
President is omniscient and omnipotent, He will make
sure the necessary actions take place.

The solution: pray that God will exorcize the political
atheists and through a holy prophet similar to Saint Joan
of Arc bring forth a Christian king submissive to the Gos-
pel who will build the City of God as proclaimed by Saint
Augustine. This writer, a counseling psychologist, wel-
comes the opportunity to speak at Washington and Lee
about this theme.

— Joseph E. Vallely, M.A.

Editor ’s Note: The author of this letter has no known
connection to Washington and Lee University, and cer-
tainly none to The Ring-tum Phi. It was received by The
Phi and printed accordingly.

THE EDITOR

group that takes up two tables in the D-Hall. Those were
four fully qualiﬁed students who didn’t give W&L a sec-
ond thought, and I’m positive that this phenomena is re-
peated at thousands of high schools across the nation. If
W&L does not diversify and offer minorities a sizable com-
munity they will be comfortable with, W&L will lose quali-
ﬁed students year after year.

While there are minorities who are scared away from
W&L, I also have no doubt that there are bigots who feel
welcomed by the limited quantity of minorities here, as a
number of recent cases would seem to indicate ‘.'Ap”p'e"aliri‘g'
to racists, even inadvertently, can have devastating af-
fects on the school that should be self-evident. Many stu-
dents arrive at college with opinions that are not fully for-
mulated, and if racists are allowed help to mold those opin-
ions, the results could be, and have been, devastating. It
is a shame that minorities have had their suspicions of
W&L vindicated.

As multiculturalism becomes a greater and greater ac-
cepted notion, W&L’s national reputation will suffer if it
remains mostly white. It will become viewed as a closed
minded institution, something that a university should
never strive for. As its national reputation suffers, top high
school students of all ethnic groups will repeatedly pass it
over, and W&L will be left with less qualiﬁed students. If
it’s any consolation to Anonymous, I’m sure these less
intelligent student will be white alcoholics.

Lastly, the goal of any educational institution should
be to introduce its students to different and unique ideas.
Many have said that you learn more from friends than
from professors at college. If your friends are all the same
as you, its doesn’t seem like all that much learning will be
going on. More diversity is needed at W&L so that more
viewpoints will be offered to challenge students’ tradi-
tional set of beliefs. Anonymous would prefer we all go
through college never learning about what is outside white
America. '

Washington and Lee needs to do more, not less recruit-
ing of minorities. Diversiﬁcation at W&L has nothing to
do with the advancement of perceived underclass. It has
everything to do with staying competitive in the next cen-
tury, and W&L’s ability to attract top minority students
while offering the best education that it can. Anonymous
calls a “good change” one that “has improved the reputa-
tion of the school. Has made it more competitive.” A greater
proportion of minorities at W&L will do just that, and is
something that should be done.

Sincerely,

John Power ’O2

“No, I’d rather be buried outside with
the horse, then people would bring me
apples and sugar cubes.”

-Emilie Wiesner ’00

“No, I’d rather be cremated."

PAGE 3

This will Show
-those Godless poliﬁciam ‘ts

+ha’r we shall come.
toqclclner and rise
above ’r‘ncm, \cd
W Jme ?l§Z’$l
of -lhc UH

Three cheers for the anti-
diversity bigots of W&L

Dear Editor,

I would like to shake the hand of the brave soul who
called him/herself “anonymous” in last week’s letters to
the editor. In that letter, “Anonymous ”explained so elo-
quently the necessity for bigotry and segregation at W&L
and clariﬁed that much of the problems we are experiencing,
such as the lapse in the speaking tradition, can be directly
linked to the diversity at W&L. You are truly brilliant in your
ignorance, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness.

History proves that when the status quo is changed or
when things seem to go a bit wrong, it is best to lay the
blame on those who are different and diverse. What is
more logical than that? W&L just may need some good old
McCarthy-esque ﬁnger pointing in this time where tradi-
tional W&L values are so clearly threatened. In the name of
homogeneity and North Face jackets, I am now more than
willing to follow your lead, whoever your courageousness
may be.

Alter your letter, I am ashamed that I have friends from
other countries, who are independents, and who prefer
achieving a high GPA to maintaining Washington and
Lee’s high drinking status on the Princeton Review. Obvi-
ously, the values that these “friends” of mine hold are
impure, unclean, and downright obscene. But thanks to
your enlightening bigotry, I realize that my friendship with
these diverse untouchables should be no more. The quali-
ties that I admired in them really do not matter, because
their diversity at W&L obviously overshadows all their
appealing and likeable characteristics as human beings.
They too, in some crafty and conniving way, are involved
in a strong and ever-growing “diversity conspiracy” to
deal a swift kick to the crotch of W&L’s values. I even bet
that the diverse are behind the recent problems with the
computer network. It’s probably those crafty Asians, or
maybe it’s those sneaky independents in an alliance with
the Turks. _

The Admissions Ofﬁce must halt the ﬂow of intema—
tional students, high GPAs and those who have no desire
of going Greek, and support the fact that ignorance is
bliss. We must eventually have a degree of homogeneity
that George Wallace and David Duke would ﬁnd comfort-
able. And if diverse people do somehow keep weaseling
their way into W&L, they must be forced to assimilate by
requiring them to listen to Widespread Panic and Dave
Matthews, while sewing the school’s supply of worn out

scruffy hats and sunglasses straps, or by making them wax
all the unused kayaks that lay dormant on so many of W&L’s
SUVS. My dear friend Anonymous we can no longer sit back
and watch as Admissions allows diversity inﬁltration, diver-
sity indoctrination, diversity subversion, and the international
diversity conspiracy to sap and impurify all of our precious
Washington and Lee values, which I am sure “Anonymous”
will be the first to ﬁnd and expose, anonymously of course.
Sincerely,
John Kerkering ’ 02

ewe, . ..

E,
oke of the Week:

42/

There once were two guys, named Bill and Bob who
liked to go hunting. One day they were out hunting with
Bill’s dog Old Blue. Bob saw a raccoon in a tree and raised
his gun. Bill said, “No, no. Put your gun down. Old Blue’s
got it.” So Bill went up in the tree and hit the branch. When
the raccoon fell to the ground, Old Blue ran up and humped
it to death. Later, Bob saw a bobcat in a tree and raised his
gun. Bill said, “No, no. Put your gun down. Old Blue’s got
it.” So Bill went up in the tree and hit the branch. When the
bobcat fell to the ground, Old Blue ran up and humped it to
death. Bob thought this is awesome. He said, “I can’t be-
lieve it, we’ve killed a raccoon and a bobcat and haven’t
used one bullet yet.” Finally, Bob saw a baby black bear in
the tree. He raised his gun. Bill said, “No, no, Bob. Put your
gun down. Old Blue’s got it.” So Bill went up into the tree
and reached back with his bat to hit the branch. He took a
swing and completely missed. Bill began to fall out of the
tree and started screaming, “Shoot the dog! Shoot the dog!”

 

Is a quarter pound enough for
three guys for two days?

—— Anonymous sophomore guy

J}

 

-Rena Thragarajan ’00

“No, because I don’t think I could
keep such illustrious company.”

“No, I’m not a Lee or a horse.”
-Mike Malinzak ’02

—Garreth Winstead ‘O3

 

PAGE 4

 

@112 iﬂtng-tum lﬂhi

W& IFE

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

Signature Student

. y . ? 1] ,0] Elianna Marziani ute‘Shye  § ' . ~
933100 017'] 0 FEATURESEDITOR m].ndedandhbeml..  
. . . , - Sttakin ast d b k Ever wondered what kind of ProfessorB.
By Glnger Phllllps. éinralne ggjlolp with ffiendlslpy ma grades God would make in college? Sanborn ex-
FEATURESEDITOR What makes her Smile? awe“ Wonder no more. The answer is plainedthat God

Does taking a full course load,
playing on a varsity sports team and
having an almost 24 hour job sound
like too much to handle? At least one
Washington_& Lee University stu-
dent, junior Jessica Parrillo, doesn’t
seem to think so.

“I am definitely busy, but I
wouldn’t choose not to do any of
the activities which I am involved
in,” Parrillo said. “My experience
at W&L wouldn’t be half as great
if I weren’t doing all these

anyone that knows me knows that I
smile and laugh at everything!”

She also likes to listen to mu-
sic, pretty much any kind except
country and heavy metal. “I love
bands like Sarah McLachlan, Dave
Matthews, Bare Naked Ladies, and
my new favorite band, Vertical Hori-
zon,” she said. “My roommates
throughout the years have also
taught me to appreciate rap music as
well.”

things.”

Parrillo is the dorm counse-
lor for 17 freshman girls on the
fourth ﬂoor of Graham—Lees
Donnitory. She feels that being
a dorm counselor is rewarding
because it gives her the oppor-
tunity to share all the things
that she loves about W&L with
the freshmen and to help make
their W&L experience a posi-
tive one. She helps her fresh-
men with everything from de-
ciding which classes to take to
listening to and advising them
about any serious problems
they may have.

“Being a dorm counselor
is an almost 24-hourjob, but
I love it,” she said. “The girls
on my hall know they can come to
me any time to get advice orjust to
talk about their day. My door’s al-
ways open.”

Parrillo also spends seven days a
week keeping in shape for her week-
end cross country meets. She is an
avid runner and captain of the W&L
Cross Country Team.

“Our team is twice the size it was
last year,” Parrillo said. “We had a
lot of new talent come in this year to
join the strong base we had from last
year.”

This year’s team has been the
strongest cross country team
W&L has seen in years, winning
third place at the state meet at
Bridgewater and first place at
ODACs over Parents’ Weekend.
Parrillo also made the prestigious
All ODAC Team.

“Next weekend we have the
NCAA Regional meet in Sewannee,”
she said. “We are hopeing to finish
off the season just as strong as we
started it and run as well as we did at
ODACs.”

Parrillo, a psychology major,
has been successful in balancing
her many roles. “Having so much
to do forces you to better struc-
ture your day,” she said. “Plus,
there’s not much time for sleep!”

She likes to relax and wind
down by “spending time with
friends, taking a peaceful drive on
the Blue Ridge Parkway, going for

 

Photo courtesy of Jessica Parrillo
Jessica Parrillo has become an
integral part of the W&L commu-
nity through her positions as
dorm counselor and Rho-Chi.

Parrillo already has big plans if
she were to win the lottery tomor-
row. “My first big purchase would
be a new car, a black Saab,” she
said. “I would also use the money
to pay for graduate school and take
a year just to travel around the
world.”

Where exactly would she go? “I
would love to drive across the coun-
try because there’s so much I want
to see here that I haven’t seen yet,”
Parrillo said. “Or I would go on a trip
to Australia because I’ve never been
and have always .had a fascination
with it.”

Parrillo says her favorite car-
toon character would have to be
Piglet from Winnie the Pooh.

“He’s just this tiny little guy
with the biggest heart in the world.
Piglet would do anything for his
friends, and I think we’re a lot alike
in that way.”

Another of her favorites is the fa-
mous Sunday brunch in the Dining
Hall. “You can always count on there
to be great food at Sunday brunch
and it’s such a great time to catch up
with friends and find out about
everyone’s weekend.”

Although Parrillo is extremely
busy enjoying her college experi-
ence, she has had some time to re-
ﬂect a little on life in general, saying
that her motto is “The more you open
your mind to new things, the more
you can learn to appreciate in life.”

W&L students give God a grade

coming to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in a Mindbenders perfor-
mance of Richard Orloff’s “The
Whole Shebang.”

“It’s a real cute play. It’s funny,
touching, and it makes you think:
what is there about life that is worth
living for?" said junior Kathie
Soroka, the play’s director.

“The Whole Shebang” is a one-act
play that presents God as a university
student who must defend His honors
thesis on the topic of creation before
a panel of professors.

The play is yet another look at cre-
ation, to top off all of the discussion
that has been brewing at W&L since
the convocation address by evolution-
ary biologist Stephen Jay Gould. The
play did not emerge as a result of all the
creation/evolution discussions going
on around campus, but Soroka said, “I
did think it would fit in nicely with them.”

This play takes on a whole differ-
ent issue, however. Rather than argu-
ing for or against creationism, this play
presents God as a student whose task
was to create a universe, and the panel
of professors judges how perfect His
creation truly was.

Junior Howard Sanbom is the ac-
tor playing Professor A, who he de-
scribed as “a conservative, ‘been
there’ kind of cynical jerk,” as opposed

' grade?

presents His
work by bring-
ing in two aver-
age people to
show the profes-
sors; His ideal
“ a v e r a g e
people” could
not make the
presentation, so
God was stuck
with two “white
trailer-park
trash” people to
display to the
panel for judg-
ment.

WhatwasHis ,, ,,_. .._
The
Mindbenders
will not reveal it
until their perfor-
mance Tuesday,
Nov. I6,at8:00 p.m.

The cast of this performance in-
cludes Brian Prisco, Howard Sanbom,
Kathie Soroka, Leah Sawyer, Neal
Willetts and Jane Ledlie.

Sanborn cited “the opportunity
to work with people on the cast” as
one of his main reasons for acting
in this performance. “It’s really a
blast. They’re really talented people.
Ijust couldn’t pass up the opportu-

nity to work with them again.”

“It’s a fun, simple way to keep act-
ing and get silly,” Soroka reasoned.

Why should you give up all the
excitement of a Tuesday night in
the library for this performance?
Soroka had an answer. “It’s about
half an hour long and it’s funny.
And, it makes youthink about the
human condition, the good things
and the not so good things about

 

V A Photo 'bVy‘Emily Eames/Photo Editor

BENDING YOUR MIND: Brian Prisco ’00 and Howard Sanborn ’01 rehearse with
director Kathie Soroka ’01 for the upcoming production of “The Whole She-
bang,” a humorous and thought-provoking account of God’s thesis on creation.

life. But, it doesn’t make you think
too hard. A fun and safe alterna-
tive to an otherwise rowdy Tues-
day night... just kidding,” she said.
“Seriously, though, if you want
something light and entertaining
to break up your Tuesday night,
this is the show for you.”

And, ofcourse, it may be the only
opportunity you get to compare
your GPA to God’s.

 
 
  
  
  
  
 

 

AED seminar.  'caI:Schfo6i.Adin
. your Deeision;’f K I

, V. 4:30p.m._ ‘I

g 44:00 pm. .

 

4:00p.m.y *

Fr'iday.,.November' 12»  
g Business Ethics Institute Lecture. “Corruption and Moral
V - . Risk,” Patricia Weifhane; the Darden School, University of

.Virginia;1Room22l, Williams School. I

  

.; 

. KaplanMCA,”l‘Pretest.Eg V
yfshouldattend. oo  'ScienceCenter.

if ;hnSo¢iety."5Character;’ I
E  ’ I ? . ‘  . University Jaiz_Ens$ei“nble; Keller Theatre, Lenfest.

":00‘pj.m; I   (M&W),
—  "7I:‘iY91I!i.91i)fo13001-.    E

Davis Moot C0urt.Fin__als.‘Mo0t Court Room, Sydney
—LewisH31l.., , S  if .
Math Department Student Reports on Summer Research
 Adam Heni'y:’00,Vn'giI1iatJernigan ’00 and Sybil
 Pt'i.nce,’0I.Root1i6,iR(}bim0!iiHa1l.Reii'eshmentsat3:30p.rrL

Journalism Ethics  Keynote Lecture.
, C1lobaIizati0n's Challenge tbfﬂie PI'e'S.S’\ Moral Imperative,”
0 £I)r.Lo’  Day,LSU‘ R‘oom~327, Williams School.

,  “Chaxacte

,‘ _ (Holland,l998),directedbyMike
L vai1Diem. Troubad011r.Cine1na.=f.»,, .

   
 
 
  
 
  
 

e taking the MCATin 2000

  

, oubadour Cinema. 9
er David Amram and the

 
  

 vs. Gettysburg College.

   

  

 

TOYOTA —-1 01

l\/IOKE VALUE/LE99 MONEY

INTKODUCINGTHEALLNEW

TOYOTA ECHO

9tai ni$l0,000 —- About $12,000 well equipped.

THERE’9 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looks on the outside, great room on the insiole.

_Cruise the highway at 40 Mi’G'...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! It’s a 1.5 liter hi-tech

16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicks out 108 horsepower

any time you want it. Anal best of all, Echo starts atjust $9,995.

   

5 GA

“yaeop/e afmzam//reea/om o/speecf/o mafe up/for /5e
/reec/om oflfouygl wélicf/fey auoirf ” ~ ,7G'er[eyaa1-J

RHYIVIES

   

Tastes like it, too —
hot and creamy with vanilla,
cinnamon and cloves.

Try CHAI at our free tastings
each Saturday in November,
and take home a bottle at 20% off.

 

  
  
    

_  thru Toyota Motor Creelit helps those with limited
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Celioa. See elealer for eletails.

[— ® TOYOTA real values. every dciy.—J Wwwg 6-ttoyo-ta Corn

LlXl,.N.ll.T_llll

(‘~“//(iv .‘/fur/.a'/1/‘/y (4;

   

 

 

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO
FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS

‘EPA esumaled 32/39 City/llwy automatic, 34/41 City/llwy manual. ‘Base MSRI’ excluding lransponalion, tax, tags and regionally required equipment.

9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

 “RT S

PAGE 5

Volleyball wins
ODAC tourney

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee volleyball has been beating up on
its ODAC opponents all season long, so it was no surprise
when the Generals breezed through the conference touma-
ment this weekend, dropping only one game.

W&L headed to Hollins undefeated in the conference
and with a 20-6 overall record. The W&L volleyball dynasty
has now claimed three consecutive ODAC tournament titles.
In addition to the conference title, the Generals also had
three players named to the ODAC all conference team, which
was announced Friday night. Sophomore Lindsay Ruckert
was named Player of the Year as well as her second appear-
ance on the First Team All ODAC. Senior Nancy Reinhart
was named to the First Team for the third straight year.
Sophomore Lee Charbonet earned a spot on the Second
Team as well.

The top seeded Generals unloaded on Guilford in the
first round, surrendering only 12 points in the whole match
(15-5, 15-2, 15-5). Ruckert led the way with 10 kills, three
aces, and three blocks. Reinhart contributed seven kills, two
aces, and 10 digs. Junior setter Katherine Kline finished
with 17 assists.

W&L faced Emory and Henry in the semifinals Saturday,
sending the Wasps packing after dropping the first game
(12-15, 15-7, 15-9, 15-5). Once again, Reinhart, Ruckert and
Kline anchored the Generals. Reinhart totaled 13 kills, four
aces, and 19 digs. Ruckert added 21 kills and 13 digs while
Kline notched 30 assists.

The win over Emory and Henry earned the Generals a
spot in the tournament championship versus Roanoke Col-
lege. It only took W&L three games to ﬁnish off the Ma-
roons and claim the conference title (15-12, 15-8, 15-7). As
usual Ruckert dominated the game, slamming 23 kills, three
blocks and eight digs. Charbonnet added 1 1 kills, four aces
and eight digs while Reinhart knocked had 12 kills and 11
digs. Kline teamed up withjunior setter Pam Salsbury for 49
assists. Ruckert’s outstanding play earned her tournament
MVP honors.

“We played our own game,” claimed Ruckert. “We had
conﬁdence and maintained focus.”

Although the Generals won the ODAC tournament the
past two years, this was the ﬁrst time a tournament win
would guarantee a spot in the NCAA tournament. “It was a
goal from the beginning,” Reinhart noted. “We were even
more focused knowing it meant going to nationals.” Head
coach Terri Dadio-Campbell acknowledged that the tearn’s
conﬁdence and focus were keys to the stellar play of this
weekend. “We have had a greater talent level than our con-
ference opponents the whole year, the key was knowing we
were better and playing at our level,” Dadio-Campbell stated.

Although the Generals have dominated the ODACs, they
are only ranked ninth in the South region, probably the
toughest in the nation. However they feel their tougher
schedule this season has prepared them for the challenges
ahead. “We played in some big tournaments and that was a
step in the right direction,” Dadio-Campbell said.

Reinhart agreed, noting that the team seems to be com-
ing together at the right time. “We have had our ups and
downs this season, but we dominated this weekend, win-
ning in three games in the championship. We are peaking
now and that will be important.”

The Generals take action Thursday at Emory in the open-
ing round of the NCAA tournament. It will be a rematch of a
game from the Maryville tournament between W&L and
Savannah College of Art and Design. The Generals lost that
match in ﬁve games before going on to win the tournament.
W&L is ranked sixth in the South Region of the tournament.

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Generals’ bid for a third straight comeback victory
and a winning ODAC season fell short Saturday when
sophomore Brad Wiginton failed to convert on a 35-yard
ﬁeld goal with less than two minutes to go in the game.
The missed ﬁeld goal gave Emory and Henry a 23-21 ad-
vantage that they would not relinquish. The loss ended
the Generals’ ODAC record at 3-3 and lowered their over-
all mark to 4-5.

The Generals fell behind early, as they have done so
often this season, when Wasp quarterback Matt Olexy

V found receiver Jason Gardner in the endzone from 16 yards
out for a 7-0 lead.

Emory and Henry kicker Chris Epperly nailed a 3 l—yard
ﬁeld goal with 12: 13 to play in the half to give the Wasps a
10-0 advantage.

Senior fullback Scott Moses cut the lead to 10-7 just
two minutes later when he plunged into the endzone from
one yard out.

Just when the Generals seemed to gain the momentum,
they were crippled by a mindless mistake. Emory and Henry
drove into W&L territory but was kept out of the endzone
and lined up for a ﬁeld goal attempt on fourth and three.

The kick was off target, apparently giving the Generals
the ball back, down by only three points, as the half was

coming to an end. However, an offside penalty was called
giving the Wasps a first down, which they would convert on
a five-yard touchdown run for a 10-point lead heading into
halftime.

W&L seemed unaffected by this mistake early in the
third quarter as Moses again scored on a one—yard touch-
down run with 10: 12 to play that cut the lead to 17-14.

Eight minutes later the Generals hit paydirt and their only
lead of the game when senior quarterback Christian Batcheller
hit junior Wes Hardy for a 18-yard touchdown strike. How-
ever, these were the last points the Generals would put on the
board.

This 21-17 lead would hold until 4:16 to go in the game
when Emory and Henry tailback Oliver Jordan scampered 40
yards ‘ to the endzone giving the Generals only one more
chance to earn a victory.

W&L’s cause was helped in a big way when sophomore
lineman Jeff Mclntyre blocked the Wasps’ extra point ensur-
ing that a General ﬁeld goal would take the lead instead of tie
the game.

Everything seemed to fall in place for W&L and it looked
as though once again they would earn a dramatic come—from-
behind victory when they drove all the way down to the
Emory and Henry 18-yard line.

But Wiginton fell to the pressure and misfired on the kick,
enabling the Wasps to run out the clock and hand the Gener-
als a devastating 23-21 defeat.

Mistakes haunt Generals in tough loss, 23-21

After suffering defeat to Emory and Henry, Washington and Lee falls below .500 mark

W&L was led offensively by freshman running back Chris
Sullivan who carried the ball 26 times for 144 yards. Sullivan
has been a pleasant surprise for the Generals this season as
he has made the loss of junior Marc Watson much easier.

This effort was not enough however, as the loss marked
the 17th consecutive year the Generals have fallen to the
Wasps.

, “You begin to wonder if we’re ever going to beat them”
said head coach Frank Miriello. “You start believing it must
be written in stone that Emory and Henry will beat Washing-
ton and Lee.”

Miriello was pleased with the Generals’ effort, especially
after the offside penalty at the end of the first half. “The
players handle those type of things very well. If that penalty
had been a big problem, they wouldn’t have come back from
it,” he said. '

The Generals put a close to this topsy-turvy season and
try to even their overall record at home this weekend against
Swarthmore College. The game marks the end of the careers
of Batcheller and senior wide receiver J .T. Malatesta, two play-

ers who will most certainly be immortalized in the Generals’ A

history books.

Scoring the victory next weekend on their last game would
be “critical” according to Miriello. “To get a win would be the
perfect ending to their careers here,” Miriello said. W&L hopes
to win for Batcheller, Malatesta, and all the other seniors next
weekend. Kickoff at 1 p.m.

XS: .- ~

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
DRIVING AHEAD: (Above) Freshman Kevin
Bibona dribbles ahead of a trailing Roanoke
player during Wednesday’s semi-ﬁnal loss.

SAY rr AIN’T so: (Above, right) Senior Ben
Thompson stands in disbelief after Roanoke’s
overtime goal crossed the line for the win.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Men’ssoccer loses ODAC quarter-1 T

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee’s Men’s soccer team con-
cluded their season Wednesday in the fnst round of the
ODAC tournament in a heartbreaking loss to instate rival
Roanoke. The game was one of the most exciting in recent
Generals’ history, as the teams combined for six goals be-
fore the Maroons finally prevailed 4-3 in double overtime.

Fifth seed Roanoke came out on a roll, getting on the
board in the match’s second minute on a penalty kick. The
Maroons added to their advantage only seven minutes
later when they slid a shot into the Generals’ net.

W&L quickly overcame their early game jitters, and got
on a roll of their own, scoring three unanswered goals
before the end of the first half. The Generals’ first mark
came on in the 27th minute when senior Jon Wilson scored
off an assist from Paul Wallace.

“We just met together and decided that it was time to

T'r'eall§"d’e‘d’ic"éit‘e "ourselves. We didn’t want to let this be our
last game,” said senior captain Scott LeToumeau.

That meeting seemed to provide the motivation that the
Generals needed. Senior captain Jamie Parker then added
two more goals, the ﬁrst with just under 13 minutes left in
the half on a penalty kick, and the second only minutes
later off an assist from Wilson. Roanoke managed to re-
gain some momentum going into the second half, tying the
score 3-3 just before the half.

After such an offensively active ﬁrst half by both teams,
the second half seemed like an entirely new match. W&L’s
defense, led by freshman goalie Tim Foley, held strong against
various Roanoke attacks, but the Roanoke defense was just
as successful and regulation ended with the score still tied.

The ﬁrst overtime periodpwas much like the second half,
as both teams’ defenses refused to yield, and it looked as
if neither team would be able to score another goal. With
8:13 left in the second overtime period though, the Ma-
roons ﬁnally managed to score off of a deﬂected ball, and
the almost unbelievable match — and the Generals’ sea-
son —- came to a sudden and heartbreaking end.

  

E *5?

.. . 0 :14“

Photo Courtesy of Ben Thompson ‘

The match was especially difficult to take for se-

niors Jamie Parker, Jason Miller, Ben Thompson, Matt
Arnold, and LeToumeau, who had helped lead Wash-
ington and Lee soccer to some of its greatest successes.
Their exuberant play and quality leadership will be
greatly missed. “You just have to play your heart out
until the ﬁnal whistle,” said LeToumeau.

W&L swimmers show no mercy

Mens’ and womens’ swim teams sweep young R-MC squads

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s swim
teams continue to build up steam towards impressive sea-
sons. The most recent stop along their paths was a home
victory Saturday over a very green Randolph-Macon Col-
lege. The underrnanned R-MC teams are both competing
in their inaugural seasons this year.

The men’s swim team, still coping with the withdrawal
of senior captain Jared Fribush, defeated the Yellow Jack-
ets 94-44. The women came away with the 124-72 win to
improve to 3-0 on the season.

Both W&L squads were paced by their strong groups
of underclassmen swimmers. For the men’s team, Sopho-
more Rick Black led the way with two individual wins. Black
took home the 100—yard free (5 1 .14) and the 500-yard free
(5:26.22). - ‘

The Generals’ freshmen class also had a strong show-
ing on Saturday. Freshman Pat Frankfort and classmate
Zach Fake both came away with individual victories. Frank-
fort scored the win in the 100-yard butterﬂy (1 201.82) and
Fake won the 200-yard free in 1:55.17.

Junior Colin Hayes captured the win in the 200-yard
individual medley with a time of 2:09.87 and the men’s 200
medley relay time won in 1:43.97. Hayes and Frankfort have
both scored wins in all three meets of the season.

While the men’s team has gained two wins in as many
weeks to move to 2-1, they have already experienced their
worst loss of the season.

With the withdrawal of Fribush two weeks ago, the Gen-
erals are now forced to make it through the season missing
one of the most proliﬁc competitors in W&L swimming
history.

“We are going to miss his leadership skills as much as
his swimming skills. He was great at both motivating us
mi‘ wiwvv'wv races. zmcl it really is a loss for the team. lt’s

going to be tough on us but we have to do whatever we
can to rebound from this,” said Black.

The women’s team improved their record to a perfect 3-
0 by defeating the Yellow Jackets 124-72 also off of strong
showings by their younger swimmers.

Leading the way for the women’s team were freshmen
Kelli Austin and Blair Huffman and sophomore Katie
Kennedy. Each gained two individual wins on Saturday.

Austin won the 200-yard free (2:05.00) and the 500-yard
free (5:42.06). Huffman proved victorious in the 200-yard
butterﬂy and the 200-yard backstroke with times of 2:20.29
and 2:21.88, respectively. Kennedy’stimes of2:20.57 in the
200-yard individual medley and 2:32.78 in the 200-yard
breast stroke were both good enough to place her ahead
of the ﬁeld.

Kennedy joins Frankfort and Hayes in scoring wins in
all three meets ofthe season. Kennedy also holds the new
W&L record in the 200-yard-breaststroke. That time of
2:28.77 set on Oct. 30 against Marymount was fast enough
to surpass the NCAA provisional qualifying mark in that
event.

Both squads will host Gettysburg College on Sunday.
The Generals look to these groups to be a higher hurdle
than the young R-MC teams proved to be. The men’s and
the women’s teams both fell to Gettysburg last season.
Coming off of their recent string of wins, however, the two
Generals teams look conﬁdent.

“Gettysburg has good depth and strong swimmers. It
will be a lot different than this [R-MC] meet. I think we
have an advantage now that we get to face them at home,”
said Black.

“This Gettysburg meet is going to be a big one for us
and I think a good test,” said Huffman. “So far we’ ve been
swimming very well and have a lot of conﬁdence going
into this meet because we are undefeated.”

The Generals look to keep this streak alive when they
host Gettysburg on Sunday.

* Up. Down.

Think there's nothing to do during the week? Well, head to

Up. Down. ‘
Ski all season long for $99.

Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains, where you'll find Wintergreen
Resort. Wintergreen offers a new quad lilt and over 19 slopes and
trails. For both skiers and snowboarders, we also have one of the
region's best terrain parks with Virginia's only half-pipe. And during
our 25th anniversary season, you can ski all you want for just $99,
with Wintergreen's Ski ‘til you drop Season Pass.*

30, call us today at I-804325-8165 og visit us on the Web

at www.WinfergreenResort.com And get in on a deal
that's simply too good to pass up.

*Not valid Sunday mornings, Saturdcn/5 or Holiday periods.

‘€99

VIRGNIA
IS FOR
LOVERS

 

 

PAGE6

It’s the country

‘ii’? «a
53.3 E
5.5.5 =5
kair-ala 9-:

LAST WORD

iJovEMBER8,1999

Romance and robosexuality in the Zlstcentury

‘ By Kevin McManemin

UMMAGUMMA

Warning: Puritans and others up-
tight about. . . it should not read this
article for fear of burning. The article
deals rather explicitly with
teledildonics and — oh, now you just
want to read it even more, don ’t you?
Pervert. Go ahead, Burn.

Ah, November——that magical time
of year when every young man’s fancy
turns to romance. The sky’s getting
darker, the weather’s getting colder,
leaves are falling, stuff is dying all over
— the stage is set for love.

As we move into the 21st century,
the prospects of ﬁnding true love are
bleak at best. Having a crush on some-
one will likely get you sued for sexual
harassment, marriage is about as
stable an institution as the Russian
Parliament, and sex and love have be-
come notjust mutually exclusive, but
almost antithetical. But never fear —
technology is here to save us. If hu-
mankind is no longer capable of love
in the post-modem world, we will at
least be able to build machines that
are. Here are a few of the ways the
respective worlds of romance and ro-
bots are rapidly becoming intertwined:

Love bleepers
This is the biggest craze to hit Ja-

pan since Tamagotchi, Pokemon and
Pachinko combined. Leave it to the
Japanese to fuse dating with bleeping
electronic gadgetry. Love Bleepers are
currently catching on in Europe and,
trust me, it won’t take long before

someone figures outthat there is a LOT
ofmoney to be made offall the loneli-
ness in America.

- So how do these clever little micro-
chips sow the sparks of passion? First,
a lovelom guy or gal enters their inter-
ests into their Love Bleeper, choosing
from a wide variety of the usual stupid
romantic cliches (“long walks on the
beach,” “dinner by candlelight,” etc.).
When two Love Bleepers come within
range of each other, they each emit a
single beep —— a kind of warning sig-
nal to everyone in the area that two
losers are walking around. However, if
the Bleepers are programmed with
similar interests, well, they bleep and
squeal and wail and generally get
about as excited as Bill Clinton at an
intern convention.

(CONGRATULATIONS, Kevin
McManemin! You’re the one-mil-
lionth writer to make a Bill Clinton/
intern joke! Thank you for the valu-
able service you’re providing the na-
tion.)

Apart from making the Tokyo sub-
way system the seventh circle of
bleeping electronic hell, these little
Love Bleepers don’t seem to have
much use. I mean, they match up
people with similar interests. Haven’t
we all heard the old theory (I believe
first proposed by Dr. Paula Abdul) that
opposites attract? Think of all your
friends in relationships (I know you’re
not — people who have time to read
the back page of the Phi aren’t in rela-
tionships). How many couples make
you say “they were made for each
other,” and how many make you say
“what in God’s holy name keeps those
two from slitting each other’s throats?”

Besides, shouldn’t we be attracted
to people and not their machines?
Where is thejoy in the timeless art of
seducing a pocket calculator? Who
wants to date a machine, besides Tip-
per Gore?

(CONGRATULATIONS Kevin
McManemin, for making the one mil-
lionth A1 Gore/robot joke. Thank you
for the valuable service you’re ‘pro-
viding the nation.)

Internet matchmaking
I f Love Bleepers aren’t your style,

you could always try the Internet for
some hot 21st century luuuvin’. Re-
member that the Internet was founded
by and for monstrously lonely people,
and today online dating and
matchmaking services abound.

The good thing about the Internet
is that it puts you in contact with a
huge number of people without the
inconvenience of actual human con-
tact. The downside is that it’s even
easier to lie on the Internet than on
Capitol Hill.

For instance, remember that girl
Michelle you met in the AOL
chatroom, that perky 22-year-old
UCLA grad student whose interests
include “cooking, movies and three-
somes?” Real Name: Ivan Tumov.
Real Hometown: Smolensk, Russia.
Real Age: 54. Real Occupation: Reg-
istered sex offender.

There are some real humdingers of
falsehoods on matchmaker pages too.
Just chew on these “facts” from
match.com: “the most important thing
women look for is a sense of humor
(48 percent) with just 5 percent say-
ing it was important their date was

“Three Kings” doesn’t
deserve the royal treatment

ByBﬁmHma)

PHI MOVIE GUY

I was planning on reviewing “Three Kings” while it was
still in Lexington, but it has already left the theatre. This
does not come as a shocking surprise. However, the fact
that it was replaced by “Superstar” is a bit insulting. “Three
Kings” is a decent ﬂick. David 0. Russell (“Spanking the
Monkey”) wrote and directed this Gulf War drama. George
Clooney (“From Dusk til Dawn”), Mark Wahlberg (“Boogie

liant director with artistic integrity and cinematic original-
ity, and all the other words you can read about in Rolling
Stone magazine to make you sound like you know what
you are talking about.

And it is in fact the direction that makes this movie
worth watching. I love gunfights as much as the next guy,
the more gore the better. As much as everyone likes to tote
“Saving Private Ryan” as a brilliant movie because it is so
emotionally wrought, a huge bloody steaming chunk of
the credit goes to the immense gore factor. Well, Russell

conda”) take to the sands of Iraq in
search of illegally confiscated Ku-
waiti gold in order to illegally conﬁs-

Nights”), and Ice Cube (“Ana-

3

ofa gun wound, Clooney fires a bullet
into a corpse. The camera follows the

ain’t no moron. In describing the effects
4 5 bullet into the body and we see it lodge

cate the gold for themselves.

You might have been like me and
thought, “A doctor, a porn star, and
a rapper as war heroes? What the hell are they thinking?”
Well, as much as I can't believe it myself, the acting is
surprisingly good, with all three doing their damnedest in
spite! of the contrived and boring dialogue they are given.
But, the best parts of the movie come from the supporting
actors, Jamie Kennedy (“Scream 2”) and Spike Jonze “(The
Game”). Kennedy, as always, is ridiculously amusing, and
Jonze, who typically earns his keep as a music video direc-
tor and currently is making a splash as director of“Being
John Malkovich,” shines as the dimwitted Conrad Vig, a
sycophantic little toughguy with a squeaky Texas drawl.

The directing is astounding, pretty much the selling
point ofthe movie, since the script is so vile. Which con-
fuses the hell out of me, because Russell both wrote AND
directed. While the dialogue has an almost accidental ten-
dency to be funny at points, the story is both cliched and
sloppy. The ending is atrocious, you half expect to hear
the choir of angels riff and see the sun shining brightly as
they walk into the sunset.

Yet, Russell manages to film this horrid plot in such
daring ways that it makes me wonder whether or not he
suffers from some sort of bipolar multiple personality de-

‘ fect. Maybe there is naughty “Davey” who wrote this script

on a roll oftoilet paper while in the bathroom at Shoney's
reading through his monthly issue of Guns and Ammo,
and his creative alter ego “Dah-Veed,” the startlingly bril-

 

Ice Cube and Mark Walberg make the best of a miserable
script in David RusselI’s “Three Kings.”

(WAIT UNTIL IT COMES
OUTON VIDEO)

into the internal organs and spew a thick
green mucus. And during a particularly
tense standoff between Saddam’s goon
squad and Clooney’s Heroes, a gunfight breaks out which
is filmed entirely in slow motion. Bullets pop and whiz
through the air, like the instant replays for baseball games,
then smash into the unwary victims, splattering brains and
puncturing limbs, like the instant replays for hockey games.
These moments make “Three Kings” a viable flick.

Another refreshing motif used by the movie, and per-
haps overused, is the blatant attempts at non—villifying
and non-stereotypically labeling the Arabs. There is a def-
nite intent to show Saddam’s soldiers as victims ofa cruel
American attack, and the non—soldiers as decent
hardworking people. However, Russell gets so worked up
in his attempts to say, “see, I'm sensitive to your plight,”
that he sometimes forgets that he is making a war movie.
Kubrick managed to do this in one brief moment in “Full
Metal Jacket” by making the sniper a young Vietnamese
girl.

So in case you had some burning desire to go see this
movie, let me tell you, don't wony, you didn't miss much. If
you want to see a decent ﬂick, rent “Saving Private Ryan”
and watch that over and over again until “Three Kings”

comes to the
Council li'm'c'/ ,

rental stores. You
won’t be disap-
Student Travel
from A to Z

    

pointed.

      

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 21?
Amsterdam 196
From Washington

each way based on a rt

purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures
in November and are --
subject to change. V’
Restrictions apply.

good looking or had a good body.”

BULL$#l%. BULL$#!%.
BULL$#!%. BULL$#!%.

But the march of lies doesn’t stop
there: “Men also believe a sense of
humor is the most important quality,
but being good-looking or having a
nice body was their second most im-
portant attribute (18 percent)”

Now, I expect flagrant lies from
women, because that’s what they do
best, but come on, guys! Who do we
think we’re fooling? Until I start to _see
female comedians like Paula
Poundstone or Rita Rudner or the cov-
ers of Playboy and Maxim, I don’t
want to hear another deceitful word
about humor being more important to
us than looks. Let’s at least be men
enough to be honest about our super-
ficiality.

Teledildonics

Now here’s where things get inter-
esting. I think I’m going to have to
defer to the pros to explain this one.
From www.teledildonics.com:
“Teledildonics is a virtual reality ap-
plication which allows users to inter-
actively have sex with other users who
may be miles away, or across the globe.
It is currently in its infancy, but poised
to take the world by storm in the next
few years. While eventually technol-
ogy will allow for full-body suits which

 

AMD-K6®-2 Processors with
l00Mhz System

ATI 3D Rage LT Prom hardware
accelerated 3D graphics with 8 MB
video memory

Up to 14. 1 " TFT Active Matrix Dis-
NW

4X DVD-ROM Drive

Dolby Digital Certified Sound

Up to 1MB L2 Pipeline Burst Cache
SoftTouch Palm Rest

lntemet Zone with Easy Scroll But-
ton

JBL Pro Audio with Bass Reflex
Compaq Extra—Mile Service Service

OOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOO0000000OOOOOOCQ.QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ

stimulate all ﬁve senses, the first gen-
eration ofteledildonic devices will be
. . . automatic penis stimulators which
. . . plug into your printer port.”

Hmrnmm.

So we have seen the future, and
it’s sex in binary? Was the old analog
version of sex really so bad that we
had to go digital? Now for those of
you who believe that there aren’t ac-
tually people out there pathetic
enough to have sex with their printer
port, the first thing I’d say is that
you’ve obviously never met my friend
Alex. Then I’d also point out that pros-
titution is one of the world’s largest
industries, and teledildonics is far
more convenient, far less embarrass-
ing, and you can be fairly sure that
there aren’t syphilitic warts growing
on your COM ports.

So no matter how disgusting it
strikes us as now, teledildonics will
almost undoubtedly become a part of
our sexual landscape in the future.
Never underestimate the will of the
nerds to combine their two favorite
hobbies - computers and masturba-
tion.

Sticky societal aftermath
So if we’re all humping machines in

the future, what fate awaits the human
race? Unless sperm learn to travel
across fiber—optic cable, how is the

 

Intel® Pentium“ III processor run-
ning at 450 to 550 MHZ or Intel®
Celeronm processor

Iomega ZIP BUILT—INTM Drive

1.5 Mb Max Digital Modem
Cable/ADSL Ready 10 Mbps
Ethernet Port

S3 Savage4 2X AGP 3D Graphics
Card with 8 MB SyncDRAM Video
Memory Digital Creativity Imaging
Center with IEEE-1394 ESS Solo PCI
Audio

6X DVD-ROM

2 Open slots, 3 Open Drive Bays, 4
USB ports, 2 IEEE 1394 ports

ooooooo0ooooooo000000000ooooooooooooofoooooooooooooooooo

species going to procreate? Will we
become the only species in history to
sex itselfinto oblivion?

Never fear—the Internet is here to
save us again. Porn magnate Ron Har-
ris has founded www.ronsangels.com,
a site that auctions off models’ eggs.
Buy a mode1’s egg, travel down to the
local sperm bank, stir in large bowl,
cook at 98.6 degrees for nine months
and Voila! The 21st century recipe for
human life. Someday perhaps we’ll
even be able to pick out our babies at
Amazon.com or eBay and have them
shipped to us in the mail!’ Imagine the
convenience!

So our precious human race will
survive -- but what about romance?
Has this already antiquated notion
gone the way of monarchism, chivalry,
a benevolent God, and other outmoded
concepts? The obvious answer is that
the only love possible in the post-
modern world will be self-love, as our
generation is proving to be almost. . .
almost. . . as arrogantly self-absorbed
as the insidious baby boomers.

In the twenty-first century, we will
no longer be heterosexuals or homo-
sexuals, but robosexuals. And all I
have to say about that is
0110011(X)101010l11(IX)10l01(X)1101l0110
1001 101 10101 10100101 1010101010101
10101010. 0.

  east eeuruuv
DA°ll’[N@ same

BA(HEI.OR#1 BA(HELOR#2 BA<HELOR#3

0 High-speed Bi-directional Parallel
2 Port, IEEE-1284 Compatible" Up to
0 1200 x 1200 Dots Per Inch

: Sound Levels: less than 47 dB,
0 Printing, 0dB, Standby

: Dual-head thermal inkjet, up to 7
0 Pages Per Minute (Black) and Up to
: 3‘/2 Pages Per Minute (Color)

0 Power Requirements: less than 12
: Watts Average Printing, 2 Watts
: Standby

. Operating System Support:
0 Microsoft Windows 3.1x, Microsoﬁ
:Windows 95, 98 and Microsoft
0 Windows NT 4.0
O

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

Mon; - Thurs.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

8:00a.m.-7:00p.m.

Sat. -11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

..Av‘Llt
, f ”>“I$.75">
\.[-/if 
E‘IQ- ‘I4-

c.'2..

VOLUME 102, No.14

Lex Lanes
scores strike

Students ﬁnd alternative social
scene for Lex Thursday nights

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

In a town with little entertainment, more and more Wash-
ington and Lee University students are answering the call
of the strike, gutter ball and funny looking shoes.

Thursday night means bowling at Lexington Lanes for
several W&L students and their numbers seem to be grow-
ing every week.

“We come every Thursday.” senior Rvan lancaitis said.
“It’s a good time and it breaks the monotony of the frater-
nity basement.”

Lexington Lanes assistant manager Dan Jollay said in
past weeks there haven’t been many students, but num-
bers picked up last week.

“Last week was the best turnout so far,” Jollay said. “It
was wall-to-wall in here.” Jollay said about 80 students
came last week.

Junior Dan Birdwhistell has gone almost every Thurs-
day this term.

“It’s grown over the term,” Birdwhistell said. “There
were 15 at the start of the term and now it’s up to 40 stu-
dents coming out.”

Several students said this term is the ﬁrst time they’ve
regularly come to the Lanes. Junior Chris.Price has come
“as Often as he can” for the past two-and-a-half years.

Lexington Lanes titles Thursday night College Night
and offers free shoe rental and $2.50 games.

43 W&L undergraduate students and two law students
occupied 12 out of 24 lanes last night.

Several W&L students mentioned how welcome an al-
ternative bowling is compared to their usually monoto-
nous social and academic life.

“It’s something different to do and it sure beats cow
tipping,” Price said.

“It’s fun and a random, good alternative on a Thursday
night compared to doing work,” Birdwhistell said. “And

Q
15

they have these really good corn dog nuggets.”
SEE ‘BOWLING’ ON PAGE 2

ilting-tum lﬂ

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKL\' NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

 

. -. .... ... . ,.....-........_........,.........._.,,,,_.,, .,. .,

NOV 181$

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1999

Rats expelled

Five VMI cadets leave school
for role in beating of student

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

Five students were expelled this week for their role in
last week’s beating of Virginia Military Institute fresh-
man Theodore Francis, and one more has been
discliplined.

The ﬁve freshmen, or “rats”, who took part in the
attack were dismissed this week after an investigation
by a student conduct committee found them guilty of
acting inappropriately in the matter.

The commanding ofﬁcer of Francis’ company has
had his rank stripped for ordering the ﬁve freshmen to
deal with Francis, and is facing a possible suspension
or dismissal. The cadre of the company may also re-
ceive disciplinary action in the near future for their role
in ordering the attack.

The 18 year-old Francis was beaten early last Friday
morning by ﬁve fellow rats. Francis was admitted to the
school’s inﬁrrnary with cuts and bruises, and was later
taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington for X-
rays.

According to one third classman, the rats involved
in the attack said they were merely acting on an order
from their commanding ofﬁcers to send a message to
Francis. This was not a valid defense, however, said
the third classman because cadets are supposed to
know the difference between right and wrong.

“One of the things we try to teach them ﬁrst and
foremost is do always do what is right,” said the source.
“They are supposed to follow orders, but they are also
supposed to follow those orders in an appropriate man-
ner.”

According to a VMI second classman who asked to
remain anonymous, Francis was beaten because his
performance had become detrimental to his company.
Francis’ behavior was apparently getting his fellow rats
in trouble, and they were ordered by their commanding
ofﬁcer to make sure Francis improved his performance.
That is where the problem began, said the source, who

r we {A4-4):-c-.. ..-..._. -.» .

J S  BURN l.lBFlAFlY
cl:
LEXIN-3 N, VA 243.50

LEE UNIVERBITY

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

For Lisa D’Amelio, the sound of
children playing has been drowned
out by the clatter of heavy con-
struction machinery for almost a
year.

“lt's an everyday racket that is
distracting,” D’Amelio said. “The
school has tried to help us, but it is
still extremely inconvenient.”

D’Amelio, the director of the
Montessori School for Children in
Lexington, is talking about the con-
struction of Washington and Lee's
new sorority houses. The five
houses, which were begun last fall,
have required numerous machines
and construction vehicles to pass
the school everyday. D’Amelio said
that her school has had to alter its
landscape because of the construc-
tion.

“We had to move our play-
ground from the front of the school
to the back," D’Amelio said.
“Washington and Lee reimbursed
us and we were given some assis-
tance, but it was still a change.”

W&L has not left the school out in
the cold, however, with programs like
last week’s Montessori Music Festi-
val donating money to the school.
Panhellenic spokeswoman Katie
Boening said that they are just trying
to help.

“We understand the troubles the
school has faced because of the con-
struction, and just wanted to help out
with their situation,” Boening said.

Members ofPanhellenic and the In-
terfratemity Council (IFC) sponsored
the third annual Montessori Music
Festival that took place last Wednes-
day. Volunteers from both groups sold
tickets and acted as ushers at the
event, which featured student band
Ring’s End and local star Leslie Tucker.

“We just want to be good neigh-
bors to the children and the school,”
Boening said. “Anything we can do
to help out we will.”

D’Amelio said the proceeds from
the concert will go to educational pro-
grams at the school, and supplies for
the children. She also said the school
was able to improve the new play-
ground with the money given them
by W&L. She said that the construc-

Montessori School adjusts to

new neighbors ’ construction
W&L “building bridges” with school through music festival

tion has not bothered the children
as much as was anticipated.

“They (the kids) actually love it,"
she said. “They can name all the
different machines; the bulldozers,
the frontloaders. . .”

In its ﬁfth year, the Montessori
School for Children is for preschool
children ages 2-6. Operating from 8:20
am. to 3 p.m. everyday, D’Amelio says
that the burden of the construction
has mostly fallen on the parents of
the school’s children.

“With all the machinery it makes
it difﬁcult for parents to get in and
out of here,” D’Amelio said. “Our
driveway and parking lot have been
messed up by the construction.”

She said that overall, the con-
struction may be annoying, but she
understands the necessity.

“The construction has made the
scenery a little less pretty, and has
been very inconvenient for us in
having to move our playground
and have our parking lot redone;
but, in the long run I don’t foresee
the sorority houses being a prob-
lem for our school. It’sjust the con-
struction that is annoying.”

photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editoi

LOCAL STAR: Leslie Tucker entertains the crowd gathered at the Motessori Music Festival.

LAST GAME OF THE SEASON: Sophomore Lee Charbonet and seniors Alex McManimen, Chris
Stakem and Russell Wrenn chat on the ﬁeld following the General’s 40-13 win over Swarthmore.

The Ruse’s “tremendous year”

SEE ‘VMI’ ON PAGE 2

Owners close down local cafe with sense of accomplishment

By Heather McDonald

S TA FF WRITER

After almost two weeks of ques-
tions, answers have finally been
found as to why The Ruse coffee-
house closed down.

Rich Walter, one of the two cre-
ators and owners of The Ruse, ex-
plained what happened. He and co-
owner Dow Harris both felt that be-
cause they wanted to pursue other
goals, it was time to close down the
business.

“It was deﬁnitely the right deci-
sion. Both Dow [Harris] and I were
comfortable with this. We wanted to
close [The Rusel while it was a suc-
cess,” Walter said. Walter is apply-
ing to graduate school for the upcom-
ing fall term.

Walter said that he and Dow were
extremely proud of the way The Ruse
achieved its goals.

“It was an outrageous success,”
Walter said. “We saw it from start to
finish, and we accomplished more
than we could have ever dreamed. It
was great for us to close the book on
that feeling.”

Harris and Walter created the Ruse
with the intention of bringing college
students and Lexington residents to-
gether in an atmosphere that encour-
aged creativity and expression. Walter
said that he and Harris decided to in-
corporate the play into The Ruse’s
closing two weeks ago. They decided
it was an appropriate way to an-
nounce the end of the business.

“It was a year of Lexington com-
ing to us,” Walter said.

Now that The Ruse is shut down,
the Jordan House, where The Ruse
was located, is in a state of transi-
tion. Valerie Alessi is the owner of
the Jordan House and president of
the Jordan House Foundation. Alessi

said she was given no warning that
The Ruse was closing, although she
was there the night ofthe play. ,

“It was a complete and perfect
ruse,” Alessi said. She said she was
not leasing out the space to Walter
and Harris, but that they had an
agreement for The Ruse to occupy
the space. The Jordan House Foun-
dation also cooperated with The Ruse
on several artistic and musical
projects. She said that the building

will now be turned into a center for
ﬁne arts in Lexington, which was the
original plan before Walter and Har-
ris approached her with the idea for a
coffee shop.

“The building will remain 2. vital part
of Lexington,” Walter said. “By mov-
ing out, we’re making room for the
community. The Ruse was only one
component of the Jordan House.”

Walter says he is unsure if any-
thing similar to The Ruse will open
up right away.

“Anything can happen, but it’s a
huge undertaking,” Walter said. “We
were mnning a business.”

Although both Walter and Harris
will be pursuing other dreams, Walter

believes the two succeeded in creat-
ing a special environment.

“We appreciate the people who
made it what it was, who made it tick,”
Walter said.

The only late-night coffee shop in
town closed its doors on Oct. 31, af-
ter being in business for only one
year. No one knew about Walter and
Harris’s decision to close shop that
night. Walter said he has no regrets.

“It was a tremendous year.”

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

photo by David HzInson’Assistant Photo Editor
BREAKING RECORDS: Freshman Chris

Sullivan scrambles during W&L’s
season finale. See story on page 5.

Clip: King-tum lﬂlri
November 15, 1999

Activities fee increase?

STDs and W&L-students

Generals roll Tide

Finding your dream job?

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

J Nat: trmg-mm pm

NOVEMBER 15, 1999

‘VMI’ from page I

asked to remain anonymous for fear of possible reper-
cussions.

“I have no doubt there was an order to impress upon
Francis the importance of following the rules and not
getting his fellow rats in trouble,” said the junior. “The
problem is that they took the order too far and beat the
poor kid.”

Following the order they had received, the five rats
went to Francis’ room early Friday morning wearing masks,
and attacked Francis. VMI spokesman Chuck Steenburgh
said that the five rats, “restrained [Francis] and proceeded
to strike him about the head and shoulders. It drew some
blood. He was taken to our infirmary and treated.”

The anonymous second classman said that the attack
was the unfortunate result ofa campus policy of“polic—
ing one’s own.” Cadets are encouraged to take care of
individual problems among themselves, without involv-
ing the administration. The source said that ifa cadet is
not up to the standards of his peers, the student’s fellow
cadets are encouraged to bring that person in line. This
attack was unique in its brutality, however.

“It has always been used as a wake-up call to the
person, but with no physical violence done to them,”
said the junior. “A cadet may be wrapped up in their
mattress and left naked in the shower all night, but never
beaten. There may be a little damage done to their pride,
but we don't beat them. Violence like that is simply not
tolerated.”

Steenburgh agreed, saying cadets sometimes have “im-
promptu wrestling matches,” but that this situation was
different.

“This is not a common occurrence. .
bloodstains in the room," Steenburgh said.

Student reaction to the attack has been one of sur-
prise and disgust. The second classman said that he and
his fellow cadets were mortified when they heard ofthe
incident.

“Everyone was completely shocked," said the source.
“We encourage them to take care oftheir problems, but
none ofus would ever advocate physically harming some-
one. Just because this is a military school doesn't give
anyone an excuse for violence.”

The second classman also said that the overwhelming
campus opinion was in agreement with the dismissal of
the students.

“What they did was completely wrong, and they need
to be punished for it,” said the cadet. “Ifthis happened in
the real world they would be injail. They are lucky noth-
ing more is being done to them.”

Since the attack, Francis has been recovering, and is
expected to return to active participation in daily activi-
ties within the next couple ofweeks. Meanwhile, the rest
ofthe school is attempting to move on, said the second
classman.

’ “We are trying to put this ‘behind .us.at this point. It
was an awful thing to have happen, but we must learn
from this and not let it happen again. It doesn't follow
with what we are trying to instill in our graduates.”

. there were

‘BOWLING’ from page 1

Fraternities take freshmen they’re rushing to the lanes
on Thursday night as well. The IFC doesn’t allow fresh-
men in fraternity houses on Thursday nights after 8 p.m.,
so a trip to the lanes provides an alternative rush activity.

“It’s a good way to get to know guys outside the pres-
sures ofthe [fraternity] house,” Price, Kappa Sigma’s rush
chairman, said.

“It’s a rush tool if the house chooses to use it like
that,” senior Lee Holland said.

The mix of fraternities at the Lanes on Thursday night
is also surprising. Members of different fraternities can
be seen talking with each other and playing games to-
gether.

“Fraternities come out together, but everyone’s very
cordial while they’re here,” Jancaitis said. “There’s no
bad blood out on the bowling alleys.”

Students compete with varying levels ofability. Some
can be seen bowling gutter ball after gutter ball, but oth-
ers claim to be pretty good.

“After a legendary 194 this summer I average about
120 a game,” Price said. “Some might call it a fluke but I
think it’s the better bowler inside ofme trying to get out.”

Assistant Manager Jollay has noticed the students’
bowling styles as well.

“They’re mostlyjust beginners, but they come out and
have a good time and that’s what it’s all about anyway.”

NEW YORK
STYLE CRUST

3"

PIZZA, SUBS, PASTA, CALZONES,
SALADS, BEER ON PREMISES

plzZA

Under New
Management!

1213 N. Lee Hwy Next to Wal-Mart

463-3399

:47 /IV or .5‘?
MK! our 

      
 

Naturally, the courfztry-*’s prem.ier~e ‘Eeaoie’z:‘°s.h§p sclri.oe::5l

offers only  finest classrooms.

}i‘<‘)r'vI'i'i 1?./)1

 Hymg Flu. ,,.,,u](]>1-nu (»\‘{)('CI_Il‘(Dlll lite it'orlrl',v ltyuglirsl grrirluulv \(‘l1rm]/'r':‘LlH\‘ 3’ l'1'o'r'cI:cr*(‘ In

 turn college men and Iranian mlo [l’(I(I[’l'.\. l’c<:plr ii”/‘I41t'I)mI71(ln(lI'L‘\[)(’t‘l. /min l(Illll].\ trim . O
 cl.‘ tlitillrrigt’. Lilcc Llirc(lirm.»' lo the crirtiptrx‘? Ca/l I-.\‘mI-MARI N 1- S. Or rzsil ll.\ ul 

l}»u'd be siirpmml at you can learn ll'l lllt’ ;rmul.~. The Few. The Proud.

E-mail General Notes to (A
In

 

National Smoke-Out Day

According to the American Cancer Society, approxi-
mately 32 million smokers (out of 47 million current smok-
ers) want to quit smoking completely. This Thursday stu-
dents and staffwill have the opportunity to participate in
the National Smoke-Out Day. National Smoke-Out Day,
sponsored by The American Cancer Society and LIFE,
will promote awareness about how to quit smoking and
other related information.

The American Cancer Society suggests that, “Ifyou're
a smoker, decide that on Nov. 18th you will put your ciga-
rettes down for good. Quitting won’t be easy, but by
preparation, determination, and some assistance, it can
be done.” LIFE will provide some things which make it
easier to quit. You can pick up a Quit Kit, ﬁlled with
things to help you through the first few days, and infor-
mation about the stages of quitting along with reasons
why to quit. Stop by the table outside ofthe Co-op from
11:30 to 1pm onNov. l8.

Guillory wins top honor in Moot Court

The Washington and Lee University School of Law
hosted the 20th annual John W. Davis Moot Court Com-
petition on Nov. II in Sydney Lewis Hall, and the top
winner was Anne Guillory, a second-year student.

Federal appeals court judges Richard S. Arnold (Eighth
Circuit), Dolores K. Sloviter (Third Circuit) and H. Emory
Widener Jr. '53L (Fourth Circuit) heard oral arguments
from four finalists in a case arguing the constitutionality
ofthe Violence Against Women Act. Thejudges named
Guillory as the best oralist and second-year student David
DuBose was named the runner—up.

“It’s customary in these situations to say that the ad-
vocates we heard were better than the normal lawyers we
hear in regular court,” said Arnold after the competition.
“On this occasion it's not only customary, it’s true.”
Arnold also talked about the importance of oral argu-
ments in court. “The oral argument is a professional con-
versation and it's your last chance to talk sense to the
people who will decide the case.”

Students also submitted briefs on the case. A law fac-
ulty committee cited Camille Turner, a second-year stu-
dent from Roanoke for the best brief. Second—year stu-
dent Kent Basson from Attalla, Ala., was the runner-up
in that competition.

The Moot Court Competition is named after John W.
Davis, an 1892 graduate of W&L, who also earned his
law degree from W&L in 1895, and later taught in the law

school.‘ ‘C ’ '

Guild presents Budapest Strings

The Concert Guild Series at Washington and Lee pre-
sents the Budapest Strings, with flutist Paula Robinson,
on Tuesday, Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

The concert includes lntroduzione, Aria e Presto, by
Marcello, Diveitimento for Strings by Bartok and Mozart's
Eine kleine Nachtmusik, K. 525. Robinson joins the en-
semble for Hungarian Pastorale Fantasy, Opus 26, by Dop-
pler and Ginastera's Impresiones de la Puna.

The Budapest Strings began its career as a septet
formed by seniors at the Franz Liszt Music Academy. From
this is developed into a 16-string ensemble playing the
established orchestra repertoire, with a particular empha-
sis on the works oftheir countrymen, such as Weiner and
Bartok. Now occupying a prestigious position in the in-
ternational world of music, the Budapest Strings tours
internationally and has recorded three CD5, including one
devoted entirely to works by English and American com-
posers.

Robinson, dubbed the First Lady of the Flute, is re-
nowned for bringing pure intonation, beautifully varied
tone and extraordinary technical mastery to a diverse rep-
ertoire. She studied with Julius Baker at The Julliard School
and at the age of 20 was invited by Leonard Bernstein to
be the guset soloist with the New York Philhannonic. Her
releases include Wings of the Morning, ﬂute transcrip-
tions of six Bach organ sonatas, By the Old Pine Tree:
Flute Music by Stephen Foster and Sidney Lanier and a
Greig/Anderson CD with pianist Samuel Saunders. As well
as performing all over the world, Robinson has appeared
on CBS Sunday Morning, Live from Lincoln Center and
Christmas at the Kennedy Center. She plays a Brannen—
Cooper ﬂute.

For ticket information call the Lenfest Box Office at
463-8000.

Campaign ﬁnance lecture topic

Arthur Gunlicks, professor of political science at the
University of Richmond, will give a public lecture on
Wednesday, Nov. 17 entitled “The Campaign Finance Di-
lemma: German Lessons for the United States” at 7:30 p.m.
in Northen Auditorium at Washington and Lee University's
Leyburn Library. This is the third in a series of European
Politics Lectures sponsored by the department of politics
at Washington and Lee.

Gunlicks is the author of numerous books and articles
on Federalism, German politics, European politics and cam-
paign finance. His most recent publications include _Com-
parative Party and Campaign Finance in North America
and Western Europe (Westview Press, 1992) and a chap-
ter entitled “Fifty Years of German Federalism” in Ger-
many at Fifty (MacMillan Press, 1999). In addition, Gunlicks
has traveled and taught extensively in Germany is the re-
cipient of numerous grants including two Fulbrights. He
is currently president of the Virginia Conference of Politi-
ca”l'”Scientists. A‘  ’ A‘

 

Q/wecae ’
540 463-6858

Two and a half years ago, Franco’s brought
you the best Italian cuisine in the area.
Now Franco’s brings you the best in
gourmet pizza.

Private room available for any special
occasion, with 20-200 capacity. Callus
with your needs and we'll design a
special menu for your function.

2.

 

bknmNmERl5,1999

Elie {Ring-tum lﬁlii

PINION

PAGE3

EC referendum: Should activities fee be increased?

To satisfy budget requests, EC wants increased Student Activity Fee

The Executive Committee faced a daunting task during
its budget allocations this fall. A little background is in or-
der. The Student Activity Fee was set at $175 for the 1998-99
school year. This amount represented a one-year $20 in-
crease from the year before, created to fund the 250th Celebra-
tion activities. The EC had roughly $286,000 to allocate last
year with $33,000
of this going to
the 250th leaving
$253,000 to allo-
cate to 35 student
organizations.
Last year the EC

 ’i:i"“*«;§:g]oriatlian McCrary,

 -:»“" EC Vice President

received budget requests totaling $358,000.

This year the EC received Student Activity Fees of $ 1 55
per student, totaling $271,000. This amount was to be allo-
cated between the 37 organizations that submitted budget
requests including a substantial request from the Mock
Convention. The total amount requested by these organi-
zations came to roughly $532,000, twice the amount we had
available to allocate. Because of this great disparity, we had
to make some extremely tough decisions, and several wor-
thy organizations were either cut completely or had their
organizations partially funded. Furthermore, several organi-
zations who missed the budget hearings have submitted pro-
posals for EC funding, and their requests have not yet been
addressed.

Recognizing the diﬁiculty we had due to limited funds, the —

EC decided to hold a student body referendum on the issue of
raising the Student Activity Fee for next year. The pur-
poses of this referendum are to gauge student receptive-
ness to an increase in the Student Activity Fee, and, should
the reception be positive, to get an idea about an accept-
able amount.

While I will not reap the benefits of any increase in the
Student Activity Fee, I fully support an increase. Not only
would an increase make the budget process easier for the
members of next year’s EC, but it would alsopermit adequate
funding for the worthy organizations that are being created
each year on campus.

A college education is about more than simple academics.
College is a time to explore other interests and develop leader-
ship skills. W&L has always prided itself on producing so-
cially responsible, well-rounded graduates. Naturally, many
organizations require money to work. A lack of adequate
funds should not be the basis of the restriction of these activi-
ties. It was disappointing to the EC not to be able to fund a
group as worthy as LIFE, and I am sure it was a disappoint-
ment to the members of that organization. Also, groups such
as the SAB and Contact which have received substantial fund-
ing in the past had their allocations reduced this year out of
necessity. The bands and speakers the students get to see
this year could be of lesser renown for this reason.

A statistical analysis done by EC member John Comly
showed that the average Student Activity Fee of six East
Coast liberal arts colleges was $21 I per student. While an
increase to this average would be substantial, I feel the
beneﬁts would far outweigh the cost. By adding even $40 per
student to the Student Activity Fee, the EC would have around
$80,000 over this year’s budget to allocate next year. Outreach
into the community would thrive, ourjoumals would be ﬁrst
rate, the club sports teams could go full force, and we could
get P-Funk back on campus.

Consider also that this money will come from most of
your parents’ pockets. If they balk at this increase, which is
unlikely in light of the overall cost of school, simply explain
that the money goes to develop you as a complete person. No
parent will object to that.

 
   
    

M

LADIES

. Q

I  _l-l'ilS \‘3 {V1,
Tm: RE ARE cix8REt\7I1—\

[5 someiwaims izznsseca
ourm THE Es4=rm2ccM

T%i1%kJ1JTﬁ$LA$KE$
pom BE\t\\\lD You
\§ouiL Mtssioxwizs Tb
ESCL7KT'TttC+4  .
ﬁ,qcjJ;TQ(1/lR 
‘t't'C\.\SE.31\i no MINUTES.
epoo Lticié.’ #

Z45/W/it

Tilt: iﬁtngi-tum 

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Li'fe Editors

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors Lisa Lin
David Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://w1u.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

if ’:

 , r’ uote of the Week:

i
~.

(K

I want to go ﬁnd my date
so I can kill him.

—- Anonymous junior girl

)2

at sorority formal

Students pay enough; endowment should cough the money up

The Executive Committee is holding a student body
referendum next week in order to gauge student recep-
tiveness on raising the Student Activities Fee. The EC’s
reasoning behind the proposed change is that there is
no longer enough money for them to provide for the bud-
get needs ofthe 37 campus organizations. This year the
Executive Committee received budget proposals that
equaled twice the amount that they had received from
the current Student Activities Fee of$l 55.

The members of the Executive Committee want to raise
the activity fee in order to make it easier for them to do
the budgeting process. I agree that more money would
be great, and full funding for all ofthe programs on cam-
pus would make for an ideal situation. However, I also
believe that asking the students to fund this is not fair to
us.

We already pay enough money to go to school here,
to not have too pay even more. Tuition already is rising
from year to year, the student activity fee doesn’t need
to follow suit. Maybe it is easy for members ofthe EC to
tack on charges to their yearly college costs because
mommy and daddy fund whatever their kiddies want.

For some people this is just not the case, however.
My parents struggle to get my brother and I both through
school; taking out loans, cutting back on vacations, and
requiring that I retain my work study job as well as work
in the dining hall most ofthe year. I know thatl am not
the only student who is in this same position. The obvi-
ous response to this argument is that this is the reason for
having a student referendum. A majority of students vot-
ing for one or the other is the democratic answer. Unfortu-
nately, a majority of students voting to approve a raise
would be making a decision for those students who aren’t
able afford a raise and are already strapped for cash. I

know a majority of students at this school probably will
vote for the raise because a littl extra cost doesn’t show up
as anything major on daddy’s bills. Hell, what’s a twenty
dollar raise in the student activities fee, when you are buy-
ing junior a brand new SUV. There are some people who
would be adversely effected by this because it would make
a difference to. Should other students have the power of
effecting the pocket book of another student?

It seems to me that somewhere in that gigantic endow-
ment that this school has, that there is some money that
could be used for increasing the budget the Executive
Committee has to work with. lfwe can give the Williams
Investment Society a cool million to play with on the stock
market, than we can give the student activities budget
$100,000 to make theirjob a little easier. Not that I agree
with that being a justification for giving the Executive
Committee more money. The whole concept of budgeting
is to decide what portion ofa limited sum ofmoney goes
to which organization.

Yes, it would be great if every organization got the
money it asked for, but that is not the case. The EC is
responsible for deciding who gets the money from the
student activities budget. This is their job. Why should
the rest of us bear the monetary brunt because the EC
doesn’t want to make some groups feel under appreci-
ated?

Thus, either the EC or the W&L endowment should
suck it up and cough up the money necessary to make
things run as smoothly as they’d like. Students are al-
ready doing their share. It’s either that, or it’s time to im-
pose a little glimmer of reality on W&L Land, and organi-
zations will simply have to accept the fact that not every-
body gets what they want all the time. Think about that
when you go to vote next week, it will make a difference.

1,001 things that irritate
me: The first installment

What is the newspaper for other than to force your
opinion on other people and complain about national cri-
ses? Thus, I figured, why not share my whims and whines
with the world in the hopes of finding some nodding heads
to give me piece of mind that I am not the only fussy
member of humanity. But what sort of protestations does
everyone take part in at W&L? Something in which we
can all feel each other’s pain? Well. I have discovered the
answer and that is the garbage man. '

First of all, what sicko insomniac thought that the best
time of day to collect the trash was at 6:15 a.m. That is
quite possibly the worst hour of the day. When you are

woken at that
< e ‘:‘?"?"'— time of dawn it

 Ungrateful Ninja ,5 too late ,0

fl - L
Ami;  Katy Harding 701 take pleasure in
 —:———-—-?- the factthat you
> have at least one
sleep cycle left to dream and way too early to be apprecia-
tive ofthe wake up call.

It’s that hour when you unpleasantly come to the con-
clusion that you have to be in class in two and half hours
and now thanks to garbage man, you have about an hour
to retreat back into deep sleep and dream before you really
do have to get up.

From a logical stand point I for one would assume
that the middle of the day would be the wise hour to
schedule pick-up. All the little kiddies are in school, all
the adults are locked in their offices (let’s not argue
about the state of local Lexington adults) and any
threatening dogs are happily secured in their homes
away from anyjuicy garbage man thighs. I suppose of
course, that that would be way too easy and conve-
nient for the rest ofthe town.

The following I direct at the person who opted to
place the dumpsters within earshot of every single dorm
room on campus so that no matter where you reside
you will hear the oh-so subtle garbage men laughing
(Why? It’s 6 a.m. and we shall never know) and cursing at
the content of their pick-up.

What is extra fun is when there is something lodged
inexplicably in the bottom of the garbage and rather than
respect every student’s hard earned right to sleep, they
opt instead to slam the dumpster into the truck over and
over and over...Well, you get the picture. There is no
doubt if you go to W&L that you’ve heard them.

What’s more, don’t even presume, dear reader, that once
you leave campus you are free from the audible torture you
experienced while on campus.

I live off campus and still have the pleasure of hearing
the garbage truck pull up outside my window at 6 a.m., the
men get out and curse, “they don’t actually expect us to
pick up this sh**!” All followed by the mumbled agree-
ment of the rest of the garbage men.

Yet, we all must accept that as much as we may lament
about the din of the garbage men and their trucks, they
perform a vital function for the students. If it weren’t
for them, other than the obvious build up of beer cans
and d-hall food, you would never wake up from the
hang-over slumber. For the garbage man has no snooze
button.

You arrive at W&L your freshman year and happily
move into your dorm room, which of course could be
nicer, but hey you have a single and a sink in your room.
The week of orientation you return to your room in the
wee hours of the morning so you are unaware and ad-
mittedly shocked when the clamor apparently begins

your first
{{

week of
“Wes” The garbage man has
no snooze button.

It starts
off slowly
as a kind of
buzzing off 
in the dis-
tant recesses of your unconscious mind as you dream away.
But as the oh-so smooth truck inches closer to the well-
placed dumpsters situated so that every room on campus
is within earshot of the compactors that come to haul away
the trash, your rest is slowly interrupted. Then the din is
full-blown and your beauty rest is completely hopeless
when the truck stops directly outside and starts its moan-
mg

Why on earth is it necessary to have the dumpsters
located right next the windows. As we have already estab-
lished, garbage trucks are not the most subtle vehicles on
this planet and regardless of where you are you are going
to hear them. And, I respect garbage men. It’s a tough but
vital position in our society and they actually don’t make
bad money considering they collect what roaches crave.
But, I have to tell you, garbage men are certainly not the
most discreet people on the face of this earth.

 

 

 

“I’m sad. I expected it to catch on. I
always enjoyed it everytime I went.”
' -Ashley Anderson ’0l

“No coffee after 5pm !”

“What’s The Ruse?”
-Anna Parris ’00

-Jason Ward '01

 

“I’m gonna miss the music.”
-John Comly ’0l

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

Campus STDs: It can happen to you

By Eliarma Marziani
F5/1 TURES EDITOR

“Everyboaﬂ/s doing it. " Not really.

A But for those college students who are

sexually active, there are many serious
risks involved. One of the more ﬁ'ighten-
ing risks is as simple as three letters: STD.

“Over the past ﬁve years, there has
been an increase in total STD-related vis-
its [to the inﬁrmary],” said Dr. Jane
Horton, Washington and Lee’ s Director
of Health Services, speaking of the in-

' creasing problem of STDs on campus.

STDS, or sexually transmitted dis-
eases, are infections of the genital tis-
sue that spread by contact with infected
skin or body ﬂuids such as blood, urine,
and other secretions. STDs can have
painful and irritating symptoms and can

. result in numerous health problems and

permanent side effects, including infer-

_ tility, cervical cancer, and higher
chances of contracting HIV.

One in ﬁve Americans contracts an
STD. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention estimates that there are
currently 55 million Americans with
STDs, and that there are 15 million new
cases a year. Almost 10 percent of
young adults have either chlamydia or
HPV (human papillomavirus), accord-
ing to a study from the American Col-
lege Health Association. With STDs
alive and well, and threatening their vic-
tims’ lives and wellness, people need to

~ be infonned.

At W&L last year, there were 64
STD-related visits (including testing
and treatments) to the health center,
along with 68 HIV tests. So far this year,
there have been 16 STD-related visits
and 18 HIV tests.

Horton said that every week stu-
dents come in for STD testing. “It’s good
in that it shows more awareness, but it
also means people have been engaging
in unsafe sex,” she said. “They do some-
thing unsafe, get scared, thenicome in
and get tested.”

She said that alcohol plays a big part
in the spread of STDS. “There are meth-
ods that can give some protection. But
with hook—ups. . .”

National research has shown that the
mixture of alcohol and sexual activity is
closely linked to unplanned pregnancy,
date rape, and the spread of STDs.

There are two main divisions of STDs:
bacterial and viral infections.

Bacterial infections are curable, as
long as they are caught early enough.
The most common bacterial infections
are chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis.

Chlamydia is the most prevalent bac-
terial infection in the United States and
also the most common bacterial STD
on the W&L campus. It is contracted
by contact of bodily ﬂuids of the va-
gina, penis, or anus and affects the geni-
tal and urinary tracts.

“Chlamydia is a big concern, because
it can be silent —— someone could be a
carrier without having any symptoms
and transmit the infection to his partner
without knowing it,” said Dr. Horton.

Some of the possible effects of
chlamydia include lower abdominal or
urinary pain, infertility in women, and
swelling and pain of the testicles in men.

Viral infections are the most fright-
ening anddangerous STDs to contract,
because although their symptoms can
be treated by medication, there is no
way to get rid of thrne permanently.

Human papillomavirus, more com-
monly known as HPV, is a very common
STD which causes genital warts. Dr.
Horton explained, “HPV is the most com-
mon STD that we see on our campus and
the fastest growing STD on campus.”

One reason for this is that HPV is eas-
ily transmitted without sexual intercourse
by skin-to—skirr Contact with the infected
area and that it can also be silent. HPV
causes waits on the genitals and anus of
both men and women, as well as warts
and pre-cancerous lesions on the cervix
of women. While these are common
symptoms of HPV, a person may be a

carrier without the symptoms. Warts
caused by HPV are treatable but the in-
fection itself is incurable.

Herpes is a viral infection that has
two strains. Type one causes fever blis-
ters on the lips. Type two causes geni-
tal herpes. More than half the popula-
tion has some kind of herpes, an infec-
tion that stays with a person for life.
While it might be donnant, it is still trans-

missible and never ﬁilly curable. Either

type of herpes can cause the other type.

(C

There has been
an increase in
STD-related
visits to the
infirmary.”

— Dr. Jane Horton

77

Dr. Horton explained that if a couple is
engaged in oral sex, one partner could
have had fever blisters years before and
no outbreaks since, but could still trans-
mit the infection and cause genital her-
pes in his partner. Herpes is transmit-
ted by skin-to-skin contact. There is
medication that can decrease the fre-
quency of outbreaks, but this treatment
does not make an infected person non-
contagious, nor does it ever totally rid
him of the infection.

HIV, or Human Irrrrnunodeﬁciency Vi-
ms, is one of the most well-known vi-
ruses. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS,
a fatal disease for which no cure exists.
HIV is spread through body ﬂuids and
having another type of STD can increase
the risk of contracting HIV.

Dr. Horton cited one of the most com-
mon misconceptions: “Someone will oorne
in to me and say, ‘It’s impossible for me to
have an STD, I haven’t had sex.’”

COMEDY IN Boor CAMP?! Peter Duvall ’0l, Blair Mitchell ’0l, Keith Rauch ’00 and
Ryan Truax ’01 rehearse for the upcoming production of Neil Simon’s Tony Award-
winning comedy, “Biloxi Blues.” Senior Holly Estes will direct this comical master-
piece about 18-year-old Eugene Morriss Jerome, who learns many life-long lessons
while in a World War II boot camp. The play opens in the Johnson Theatre at 8p.m.
on Dec. 3. Tickets are available from the Lenfest box ofﬁce at 463-8000.

 

t

Photo Courtesy of Susan Wagner

   

 

featuring Paula Robison, ﬂutist.Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

U  i    .  . 8:00 p.m. Lecture. “Doing our Duty as BestWe
. May: Three Confederate Women Dur-
ing War,” Mary A. DeCredico, pro-
fessor of history, United States Na-
val Academy. Northen Auditorium.
9:00 p.m. “The Whole Shebangf’ Directed by V
Kathie Soroka ‘O 1. Science Addition.
Wednesday, November 17
7:00 p.m. Politics Filrnfest. “2001 : A Space Od-
V yssey.” Room 221, Williams School.
Tuesday’ November. 16 7:00 p.m. lsectu:le.C‘i‘The aCI21aLr:;S):1(i)g‘r: ::r:r1r‘r:e Di-
_ . . . . . emm : erm
:_'3000‘ m TH::nkSgwmg dmnen Evans Dmmg United States,” Pro_f. Art Gunlicks,
' p' ' ' University of Richmond. Room 327,
5'30 p m Artists‘ Talk and Reception “Ancient Williams School‘
Forests and City Trees,” an exhibit ,
by artist Prilla Smith Brackett, opens. Friday. N°Vember 19
6:00 p.m. Thanksgiving Break begins after
7 :00 p.m. Politics Filmfest. “2001: A Space Od- classes —— classes resume Monday.
yssey.” Room 221, Williams School N0V6mb€F 2931-
8:00 p.m. Concert Guild. “Budapest Strings” The  wishes ifs readers

a happy Thanksgiving holiday.

She said this information is inaccu-
rate. Penetration is not necessary for
the transmittal of many very dangerous
STDs. Anyone who has been in a situ-
ation in which he might have been in-
fected should be tested.

The costs for tests in the Student
Health Center range from $15 to $20. Dr.
Horton stressed that if these costs
present an insunnountable burden, cost
should not be a reason to not get tested.
The health center is always willing to
work with students for the sake of their
health. The tests are done conﬁdentially,
between the doctor and student alone.
Anyone with questions should contact
Dr. Horton at 462-840 1.

While testing is important in the early
detection and treatment of an STD, it is
best to do everything possible to avoid
contracting an infection in the first place.
Abstinence is the only absolute protec-
tion from STDs. W&L students who
choose to be sexually active must keep
themselves infonned of STD risks, symp-
toms and treatments. If a couple decides
to have sex, honesty between partners
and protection during sex is a must. And
while condoms do reduce the risk of
transmission and should always be used
if a couple decides to engage in any kind
of sexual activity, they do not completely
protect against STDs transmitted by
skin-to-skin contact.

        

Council Tl'iIl‘(’l ,
Student Travel
from A to Z

(‘L

 
    

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 217
Amsterdam 196

   
    

From Washington C
each way based on a rt
purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures
in November and are
subject to change.

Restrictions apply.

1-800-ZCOUNCIL

  

- Finance

‘ @112 itttng-tum {ﬂirt

IF E

Learn the fundamentals of:
° Accounting - Marketing

° Organizational Behavior

0 Hands-on market & financial research

0 Business related computer applications

° Effective communication & presentation skills
- Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Freslnnan Trey Packard is a cosmo-
politan man. Looking to broaden his ho-
rizons both socially and academically, last
year Packard opted to postpone his
freshman year at W&L and attend a
high school in England for the aca-
demic year.

Packard attended Sutton Va-
lence School in a small village south-
east of London. He took courses in
economics, Spanish, and English lit-
erature. The biggest part ofhis edu-
cation, however, came outside of
the classroom.

“Academically I learned some
stuff,” Packard said. “But I think I
learned a lot more socially.”

 

NOVEMBER 15, 1999

Signature Student
yrey yacfarof ’03

talk to one of his parents each week.
But Packard really could not escape
English culture for the eight months
he was there.

“It’s just an experience when you
have to go through a culture shock that

Packard was the only Ameri-
can out of 400 pupils.

“The ﬁrst time I walked into the
school, the ﬁrst word that blared into
my head was regret,” Packard said.
“I thought, I shouldn’t have done
this. I don’t belong.”

But Packard’s fears proved to be
unfounded, and he soon got along
well with his classmates. He started
playing pool and going to pubs with
them, and he discovered that most
were just curious about the States.

Packard still had to jump other cul-
tural hurdles as he adapted to life in En-
gland. Differences in accents and vo-
cabulary constantly challenged Packard.

“It’s one thing if you’re in France and
someone’s talking to you, but when
someone’s speaking English and you
don’tunderstand them, it’s so scary,” he
said. “[It’s] a serious culture shock.”

Packard thinks his tolerant sense
of humor really saved him during the
academic year.

“In England I was the center of atten-
tion and that also meant being the center
of the jokes,” Packard said. “I had to
laugh at myself. Otherwise what are you
going to do, break down and cry?”

Growing a thick skin and the con-
ﬁdence necessary to survive in a new
culture was a daily task for Packard.
He e-mailed his friends and would

Photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor

lasts that long,” Packard said. “lt’s really
[about] coping. You can’t escape some-
where and go into a comer and hang out
with a bunch of Americans and watch
BeverlyHi1ls90210.”

Now Packard begins his freshman
year at W&L. Adapting to the com-
plete W&L environment is a lot easier
for Packard after England.

“In England, I was the only one
new to the environment,” Packard
said. “W&L students are more like
me. The freshmen are all going
through the same experience.”

Packard appreciates the variety in
the W&L curriculum alter the lack of
choice in England. He also looks for-
ward to starting classes with the same
level of knowledge as his classmates.

Packard does not think his aca-
demic year abroad affected the im-
pact of his ﬁrst year at W&L.

“Just because I [went to England]
doesn’t make my freshman year not
as valuable,” Packard said. “It’s still
just as genuine as anyone else’s.”

Packard predicts things will only
get better next year. “I also have the
conﬁdence of knowing that I’m go-
ing to be the most popular sopho-
more next year . . . being 21 on th
first day of school.” ‘

If you are a non-business major and you want to improve your marketability,

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California Berkeley
Summer BASE Program IS FORYOU!

July 5 - August I I, 2000

 

Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits,
guest speakers and student presentations.

For more information, visit our website at:
haas.berkeley.edulUndergradIbase.html
or contact us via email at: BASE@haas.berkeley.edu

 

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. -. 7:00p.m.

Fri. — 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

Sat. -1l:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

L

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 15, 1999

 RT s

PAGE 5

W&L destroys Swarthmore n ﬁlae of nes’ season

By Mike Weil

S TA FF WRITER

Christian Batcheller set the ODAC
record for career passing yards with
6,130 and Chris Sullivan had a career
high in rushing yards with 163 yards as
the Generals destroyed a horrific
Swarthmore squad 40- 1 3.

Leading 7-0 with 1:07 to go in the
ﬁrst quarter, W&L would triple its lead
by scoring two of their most thrilling
touchdowns of the season.

Sullivan took a hand-off from his own
six yard line and scampered 94 yards to
the endzone for the longest touchdown
run in General history.

Batcheller then scored on a 19-yard
touchdown reception from freshman
successor Robert Littlehale for a 21-0
advantage with 12:08 to play in the ﬁrst
half. The lead would increase to 28-0
after Sullivan again reached the
endzone, this time from four yards out.

The drubbing would continue in the
second half after a pair of General ﬁeld
goals heightened the lead to 34. W&L
would ﬁnish its scoring with 7:33 to go
in the fourth quarter when freshman
running back Dvllan Rankin charged in
from three yards out to give the Gener-
als 40 points on the day.

This drive showed a glimpse of the
future as Littlehale was exceptional in
converting two fourth downs on the way
to paydirt.

Swarthmore added two meaningless
touchdowns in the second half to make
the ﬁnal score 40-13.

Senior wideout J .T. Malatesta also
had a standout day, hauling in 1 1 passes
for 131 yards, breaking Tony Peny’s
(’73-’76) school record for receptions

with 155. It appeared obvious that the
W&L game plan included Malatesta
and Batcheller getting their respective
records.

“Obviously our number one goal
was to get a win,” said Batcheller.

“But once your guaranteed that win,
then you start thinking about the
records . . . It’s something I’ll think a lot
more about a lot more in a few years
then I do right now. In a few years you
can look back and realize it’s something
special.”

“The guys I played with, the se-
niors, and the classes below us, we
really formed a special bond.”

When asked about Littlehale’s ex-
pectations in the next three years,
Batcheller responded, “He’s going to
be great. He throws a really nice ball
and makes the right reads. He knew
more than I did out there when I was a
freshman.”

Malatesta, senior offensive lineman
Warren Hedges, sophomore linebacker
Jeff Bahl, and sophomore placekicker
Brad Wiginton were all honored last
Thursday by being selected for the
College Division GTE Academic All-
District squad.

Malatesta is a business administra-
tion and accounting major who holds
a 3.40 GPA. He had 53 receptions for
804 yards and ﬁve touchdowns on the
season. Hedges majors in European
history and Russian studies and car-
ries a 3.674 GPA. He was part of a line
that let up only 12 sacks this year.

Bahl, a business administration ma-
jor, holds a 3.3 1 GPA. He had 69 tackles
and 35 sacks this season. Wiginton
majors in business with a 3.37 GPA. He
went 4-7 on ﬁeld goals this year.

’ :~

   

Photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

EAT IT. YEAH, I SAID EAT IT: Freshman running back Chris Sullivan escapes a dusted Swarthmore defender. The Generals were all but
merciless in Saturday’s defeat of the Garnet Tide, 40-13. This win for the Generals brings their ﬁnal season record to an even 5-5.

VoHeyball’s spectacular season comes to close at NCAA tourney

By Sarah Schmidt

STA FF WRITER

_ Washington and Lee volleyball
reached new heights in 1999; break-
ing several school and conference
records, going undefeated in the
ODAC for the second straight year,
claiming its third consecutive ODAC
tournament championship, and quali-
fying for the NCAA national touma-
ment for the ﬁrst time in school his-
tory.

The Generals were in Atlanta this
weekend for the opening rounds of the
South Region of the NCAA touma-
ment hosted by Emory.

W&L, seeded sixth, faced the third
seed, Savannah College of Art and
Design (SCAD). For the second tim'e
this season W&L took SCAD to ﬁve,
games before falling to the Bees.

The Generals stumbled out of the
blocks, dropping their ﬁrst ever na-
tional tournament game 15-1. “We were
stuck in the moment,” head coach Terri
Dadio Campbell said. “We played back
on our heels that game.”

To their credit, the Generals re-
grouped to win the next two games
(15-11 and 15-10)andpullahead2-1 in
the match. “We played well from that
point on,” Dadio Campbell said. W&L
came close in the last two games, 7-15

and 11-15, but couldn’t come up with
the win.

“We had our chance in the fourth
game (to win the match).bu1.we just
cou'idn’t get a hit,” Dadio Campbell
stated. “They blocked really well and
wejust didn’t make the adjustments.”
The Generals were lead by sophomore
middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert who
ﬁnished her stellar season with 15 kills,
seven digs and four blocks. Senior
outside hitter Nancy Reinhart’s re-
markable career came to an end on a
nine kill, 1 I dig performance.

Anchoring the back line wasjunior
defensive specialist Tori Hays, claim-
ing 10 digs. Sophomore outside hitter

Lee Charbonet tallied 15 kills and six
digs while junior setter Katherine Kline
notched 23 assists. ‘

SCAD (22-9) went on to beat the
second seeded tournament host
Emory to qualify for the Regional
Championship, placing them among
the top twelve teams in the country.

Although the team showed obvi-
ous disappointment, Dadio Campbell
was quick to point out that it was a
great season for General’s volleyball.

The team ﬁnished 10-0 in the ODAC
and 22-6 overall. W&L dominance in
the ODAC is nothing new, the Gener-
als haven’t lost to a conference oppo-
nent in the past two seasons.

Cross country competes at NCAA regionals

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

After the ODAC finals at
Bridgewater College on Oct. 30, the
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams com-
peted at the NCAA Division 111 South/
Southeast Regional Finals on Satur-
day.

The women’s squad looked to
capatalize on the momentum built up
behind them after taking the ODAC
crown two weeks ago.

The women placed sixth overall at
the regional meet. Last year the team
placed twelfth.

“This was the biggest meet of the
season for us. We usually gear our
season toward the ODAC ﬁnals. Once
we won ODACS we were able to turn
to this meet and I think we performed
very well,” saidjunior Jessica Parillo.

W&L was led by freshman Burke
Duncan andjunior Kathleen Moroney
who earned all-region honors. Duncan
ﬁnished 22nd with her time of 20: 13
and Moroney placed 25th with her

1999 ALL

VOLLEYBALL

Nancy Reinhart
Lindsay Ruckert

Lee Charbonet
V Lindsay Ruckert
Lindsay Ruckert
MEN’ s SOCCER

Jamie Parker

ODAC SELECTIONS

1 sr TEAM ALL ODAC

2N1) TEAM ALL ODAC
ODAC PLAYER or THE YEAR

ODAC TOURNAMENT MVP

1 ST TEAM ALL ODAC

Wondering what the pay is? Compensation
includes an hourly wage, stock options
and a performance bonus.

This job is a great way to earn money while
gaining valuable experience. if you are
interested, send an e—mail with your name,

time of 20:23. 116 women ran in the
meet.

Duncan has proved to be a true
leader on the course. This fall Duncan
helped pace W&L in their win at the
ODAC championship meet with her
third place individual ﬁnish.

“Any leadership that I have taken
on the team this year has been a role
of silent leadership,” said Duncan.
“We have great captains that are good
motivators for us. They lead in many
more ways than just in the races.”

The more expereinced runners on

  

Work for a Hot Internet Start-Up

Are you a born leader? Do you want to work for a hot
Internet start-up?

VarsityBooks.com is looking for student leaders from
colleges nationwide to become Lead Campus Reps.
As a paid member of our team, you will hire
and direct a staff to carry out VarsityBooks.com's
marketing efforts on your campus.

  
 
 
  
   
 

the team are just as appreciative of the
efforts of the underclassmen.

“I don’t know if anyone expected
us to do this well. We have a strong
group of runners that work very well
together. Our new talent made a great
addition to the team,” said Parillo.

“I think we stacked up well against
the larger teams.” added Duncan.

The men’s team ﬁnished ninth over-
all after placing fourth at ODACs.
Sophomore Rob Naftel earned all-re-
gion honors by placing 20th of 127 with
his time of27:47.

Youn ARTICLE COULD
so HERE! WRITE FOR
PHI SPORTS. EMAIL

COOPERT@WLU.EDU.

 

Their presence has been felt in the
record books as well with Reinhart
owning the conference record in kills
and digs; In addition, Reinhart also
holds school records.

Ruckert was named ODAC Player
of the Year, ODAC tournament MVP,
and First Team all conference.

Reinhart was named to the First
Team All ODAC as well and Charbonet

earned Second Team all ODAC hon-
ors.

Loaded 'with returning talent and
NCAA tournament experience under
their belt, Dadio Campbell looks to a
bright future for the Generals.

“We’re looking forward to next
year and a chance to get back to the
tournament and advance even fur-
ther,” she said.

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
INTO DEBT.

up to a $65,000 limit.

in default.

 

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not

And debt relief isjust one of the many beneﬁts
you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

(540) 886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Under the Army’s
Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
three-year enlistment.

Each year you serve
on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one
third or $1,500, which-
ever amount is greater,

- community.

Located in the mountians of North Carolina,
CR! offers a sernester study program {or
undergzéaduazes. It seeks applications from
students who value interdisciplinary study,
experience with nature, and life in a small

. Limited space is available for Spring 2000.

A Semester in the Woods

Earn a full semester of Academic Credit in the Humanities
Enjoy a range of Outdoor Adventure Activities

Studio Art Backpacking
Philosophy Rock Climbing
Religious Studies Mountain. Biking
Literature Canocing
Kayaking

 
 
 

school and Contact information to:
repinquiries@varsitybooks.com

 
 

 

Ben Thompson

  

WoMEN’s SOCCER
1ST TEAM ALL ODAC
. Kate Bidwell
‘l Shana Levine

Rock www.castle-rock.org”
1115 titut«« ~mm~

varsitybooks.com

Your Onlinc College Bookstore

 

 

Where common
decency IS on

PAGE 6

LAST WORD

NOVEMBER 15, 1999 I

Getting that dream
job after graduation

By Kevin McManemin

F I ITER, HA PPIER, MORE PRODUCTIVE

As an American, I like money. As a senior joumalism/
mass communications major, I’m probably not going to
see very much of it anytime soon. As far as the -real world
is concerned Ijust spent the last four years at the circus.

Luckily, there are quite a few ways an ambitious person
could make money these days:

1) Do something stupid and then sue somebody for not
stopping you.

2) Get ﬁve gay-looking guys together, rerecord some
old New Kids on the Block numbers and watch as every
preteen girl in the country scrambles to spend her allow-
ance on any piece of merchandise you plaster their pic-
tures on.

3) Go on one of those ridiculous new million dollar TV
game shows, the ones with the “dramatic” lighting and
music and the hosts like Regis Philbin
or Chuck Woolery who are clearly
both well over 80 years old but have
somehow miraculously managed to

avoid going gray. -  f )7”,-'~'-'i.  S

4) Geta job. it “I  .
-.,-,..',_r. 05' .

Unfortunately, most of us will end ""

up taking route 4, the least interest-
ing, but most dependable way to get cash. So how do we
go about the daunting task of deciding what to do with the
rest of our lives? Well, any good career counselor will tell
you that the ﬁrst step towards ﬁnding a job is identifying
your dreams and ignoring them. The world has enough
rock stars and major league ball players as it is, and let’s
face it, Bub, you just don’t make the cut.

If you look at the chart below, you’ll see the approxi-
mate chances of actually paying the rent consistently with

a given career:
Actor — 0.04%
Writer —- 0.07%

Middle-manager at a large faceless suit-wearing corpo-
ration who works on a PC in a cubicle moving numbers
around from one column to another in between e-mail breaks
until they’re eventually downsized and hired as a middle-
manager at the large faceless suit-wearing corporation
down the block. —— 98%

Once you’ve resigned yourself to the fact that the rest
of your life is going to supremely suck, it’s time to start the
job search process!

Now in the old days, thejob search was easy; you just
did what Daddy did. Daddy was a blacksmith, you became
a blacksmith. Daddy was the town drunk, you became a
town drunk. Daddy was a Senator, you became a town
drunk. It was a simple system. But life, like the Income Tax
Code, just gets more complex every year.

These days we’re expected to go out and ﬁnd jobs on
our own. Also, thanks to Freud, we now all realize that we
actually hate our fathers, and the last thing in the world
we’d ever want to become is them. This is why every gen-
eration since Freud has had to come up with an ever-louder,
ever-more-obnoxious musical style. Unfortunately, it has
now gotten to the point where the next generation will
have no conceivable way to piss off their parents through
music so we’ll just have to go back to Bach and Mozart
and Vosbein and start the whole thing over again.

But back to the job search —-— no, never mind that, let’s
get back to music; it’s far more interesting. Do you think
that twenty years from now they’ll be playing Kid Rock on
“oldies” stations? Can you imagine any conceivable thing
the children of the future could play on their Stratocasters
that would make their parents say “tum that sh** down,
I’m trying to listen to my old Korn albums in peace!”

-- ’$THEArRE  
ATWASI-HIVGFON AND Lag I

  Directed By Holly Estes

.a. senior project.‘  .

eil Simon’S

Biloxi

Blues

nee. 3, 4,6 - 3 pm.
Dec. 5  p.m.:,  p

 

Johnson Theatre

Anyway. . .

The best way to find ajob is to go out and look for one,
unless you’re a comp sci major in which case they come
looking for you. The traditional place to start is in the news-
paper want ads, which is a ﬁne place to go if you’re look-
ing to ﬁll a position somewhere in the l940’s. lfyou want a
job today, though, you have to go online.

Online databases are great because you can search
through them for speciﬁc terms to tailor the exactjob speci-
ﬁcations you’re looking for. First, search through the data-
base for the words “experience necessary,” “MBA pre-
ferred” or “highly motivated go-getter.” You won’t be get-
ting those jobs. Then search for the word “assistant,” be-
cause no matter what word they put in front of it — execu-
tive, managerial, production, editorial — it still means that
your primary tasks will include cleaning the gunk out of
the coffee machine and running to the local deli to pick up
lunch for the important people. Hey, if you wanted to rob
yourself of all your dignity just for
money, you would have gone to law
school, right?

Also, you can pretty much rule
out any want ads with phrases like
“works well on deadlines,” “ability
to work on several tasks simulta-
neously,” or any combination of
the words “hard” and “work.” Remember: just because
you need a job doesn’t mean you need to work. There are
plenty of positions in corporate America with little or no
actual responsibilities — you just have to go out there and
find them.

So as you peruse the electronic want ads, keep an eye
out for phrases like “self-starter.” That’s their way of say-
ing that you’re not going to have a boss breathing down
your neck, and chances are no one in the ofﬁce will have
any idea exactly what you’re supposed to be doing. That
means you can probably get some serious slacking done
at work.

Once you’ve identiﬁed the perfect job for you, it’s time
to go out there and get it. That means one thing: time to
pad the ol’ resume! And when I say “pad,” I mean “ﬁa-
grantly fabricate.” However, if you’re one of those “honor”
freaks, then don’t think about it as lying; just think about

it as not telling quite so much of the truth. For instance, .

let’s say you were the champion of your frat’s beer pong
tournament. Well, I’d call that “proven success in a highly
competitive, goal-oriented environment,” wouldn’t you?
What if you slept with someone new every weekend? Golly,
you sure sound like “a real people person” to me!

If the company asks for an interview, well, that’s your
time to shine. Just remember to stop by the hospital ﬁrst
and pick up a wheelchair or at least some crutches to boost
the sympathy factor through the roof.
And don’t be afraid to ask them tough
questions as well, such as the com-
pany policies on sleeping on the job
or having a keg in the ofﬁce. Hey man,
you don’t want to be signing on to
some big fascist hassle, you know?

With a little luck and a little black-
mail, thejob will soon be yours. Con-
gratulations! You’ve joined America’s
bustling work force. One day soon
you’ll be relaxing at home in your
leather armchair, smoking an expensive
cigar, drinking a glass of magniﬁcent
Chateau de Somethingerother and yell-
ing upstairs “will you kids turn that
crap down! I’m trying to listen to some
classic Limp Bizkit in peace!”

Lenfest Center

Subject: Campus Notices
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 1999 08:31:36 -0500 (EST)
From: Postmaster{no-reply}@wlu.edu

5 Campus Notices for Wednesday, November 15, 1999

1 : From: Campus Calendar
Subj: Calendar Events for November 15

2: From: Shelley Percy <percys@wlu.edu>
Subj: Poetry Reading

3: From: Arlan Berkley <berklea@wlu.edu>
Subj: Shepard Poverty Program

4: From: Dick Griefy <griefyd@wlu.edu>
Subj: Film Society

5: From: Terrence McNulty <trncnult@wlu.edu>
Subj: HOT STEAMING MATH COLLOQUIUM!

Notice #1

From: Campus Calendar <>
Subj: Calendar Events for November 15

Calendar Events for Monday, November 15 1999

3 p.m.: Career Services Seminar: “So you f"‘**ed
yourself for life — Surviving the English/Philosophy
major.” University Center, room 1 14.

7 p.m.: Lecture: “Disassociating the paradigms of
Western post-industrial political infrastructure within a
neo-Marxist, post-colonial agrarian model.” Part of the
Stuffy Academic Lecture Series. Science Center A214.

8 p.m.: Women’s Ice Hockey Team game vs.
Randolph-Macon, Warner Center pool (bring ice cubes).

Notice #2

F rom:Shelley Percy <percys@wlu.edu>
Subj: Poetry Reading

The Society for the Arts had scheduled a poetry
reading at the Ruse in order to let the campus’ best
poets put the “dull” in “self-indulgent drivel.” Due to
the Ruse closing, however, the reading will take place

‘across the street at BJ’s Oasis on Friday night. Come

for the poetry —- stay for the townie ﬁghts!
Notice #3

F rom: Arlan Berkley <berklea@wlu.edu>
Subj: Shepard Poverty Program

The Shepard Poverty Program is conducting a study
of the effects of W&L tuition on increasing poverty
rates among parents. If your parents have registered
for Welfare/food stamps/govemment assistance as a

result of your attending W&L, please contact us at
463-2344.
Notice #4

From: Dick Griefy <griefyd@wIu.edu>
Subj: Film Society

This weekend the W&L ﬁlm society is holding the
ﬁfth annual Eurotrash Film Festival. The festival be-
ings at 7 p.m. Friday at the Troubadour cinema with a
screening of Maurice DuChammant’s Palme D’Orr win-
ning “Le Fois Sont Les Pantalons,” (1997) a stunning
post-structuralist vision of existential ennui in modern
day Paris. Though it has no plot, no central characters
and no dialogue, “Le Fois Sont Les Pantalons” is still
four-and-a-half captivating hours of nonsensical, free-
association fun! Bring popcorn!

Saturday at 5 p.m. the Eurotrash Film Festival con-
tinues with Hans Gr(lber’s 1998 masterpiece “Das
Bildhuntverschpinladdelmichausfuntgottenlichauf”(lit- .
erally translated: “the pencil”). With “Das
Bildhuntverschpinladdelmichausfuntgottenlichauf,”
Grtiber serves up a hearty portion of darkness and de-
spair, with heaping piles of angst on the side! The ﬁlm
follows the exploits of a pencil as it lies motionless in a
darkened room for two hours. “Das
Bildhuntverschpinladdelmichausfuntgottenlichauf,”

sets the new standard for pretentious, inaccessible Euro 5

art. It’s sure to please the expatriate hipster in all of us!

The festival concludes Saturday at 8 p.m. with
Giuseppe Ristorante’s “Bella Jouma,” (1996) which fol-
lows chronologically two hours in the life of a naked
young Italian girl as she comes of age. See the ﬁlm that
won the Jury Prize at Carmes, and the “Satan’s Work of
the Year” nod from the Christian Coalition!

Be sure to dress in black for all of the Eurotrash Film
Festival screenings, and show up early for the good
seats.

Notice #5

From: Terrence McNulty <trncnult@wlu.edu>
Subj: HOT STEAMING MATH COLLOQUIUM!

Yes sir mathkateers, it’ s that time of year again:
MATH COLLOQUIUM TIME! Sign up today because,
brother, space it limited! Don’t be left out of these great
math moments:

—Dr. Irving C. Yanklebaum, University of Colorado,
“Limited number set analysis of vector parallel planes.”

—Dr. H.P. Englebart, University of Washington,
“Non-linear differential equations along the y-axis prime
integers.”

——Dr. Prunella V. F arber , Johns Hopkins University,
“Hyperbolic functions of x2/r(x+r).”

This math colloquium be da rockin’est, hip-hopin’est
happenin’ this side of a Limp Bizkit concert! Yo, it be
math time, y’all! Yeah boy!

 

  

Grab the kids and come on down to Lexington ’s newest eatery —

STEREOTYPICAI.
ITALIAN PIZZARIA

OW‘ gmmviiee: If our restaurant is not 100%

interchangeable with any of the other 32,459 Italian
pizzarias in America, eh, fuggetaboutit!

PIZZA - SUBS - CALZON€S - MOR€ PIZZA — DIFF€R€NT SUBS - OTH€R
CALZONEIS - PIZZA-FLAVOR€D SUBS - CALZON€ PIZZA - MOR€ PIZZA

Located downtown right next to the Happy Steleotype Chinese .Lestelant.
Confucius he say “me rikey egg foo young vely much!”

 HAPPY ST€L€OTYP€
cnmese L€STAULANT

— (1

now try
another"

 

{—

t Word fake ad — well obviously

 

 

 
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
 

/—‘.r: it ’
4 2:22.. 75:
:6 =55’!

'“' V. 34 

ha ~'I'.‘5

"VOLUME 102, No.15

‘FLC lends a
helping hand

“ Freshman Leadership Council

sponsors food drive to beneﬁt

, local foodbanks holiday efforts
By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

4 A group of Washington and Lee University students
has challenged their classmates to help provide food
for the poor this Christmas.

“We’ve given the students the goal of filling an en-
tire Ryder truck with canned goods,"'said Freshman Lead-

" ership Council member Kris Pollina. “We are hoping to
get the whole school involved so we can reach that
goal.”

The food drive is being held Wednesday December 8

1 and is sponsored by the Freshman Leadership Council.
According to F LC member Kempton Presley, the great-
est challenge the group has faced is getting Washing-
ton and Lee students to make the effort to buy their own

cans.
” “A lot of students just want to give us three or four

said. “They have no trouble donating as long as they
can just pay for it. We are encouraging them to give a
little bit oftheir time so we can fill the truck.”

Some students have said the reason they just want
to donate money is that they are too busy with end of
the semester work to go buy cans.

I. ‘‘I think it would be a lot better if we could just give
money,” said junior Dillon Whisler. “As long as I do-

dollars and tell us to go buy our own cans,” Presley 9

 U112 ilttng-tum 1311

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 
 
   

0' DEC

I

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1999

Activities fee
raise passes

Student referendum comes
out in favor of $20 increase

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The cost of activities at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity just went up.

Following a student referendum that took place the week
before Thanksgiving break, the student activities fee will
20 up bv $20 for the 2000-2001 academic year. The increase
will generate an additional $40,000 annually.

Nearly 73 percent of undergraduates voted in favor of
the increase, while only 42 percent of law students ap-
proved. About a quarter of the student body turned out.

When the Executive Committee went through the bud-
getaryallocation process at the beginning of the year, they
were faced with unenviable task of dividing up roughly
$270,000 among student organizations that had asked for
more than $500,000 in funding.

The EC decided that in order to better serve the needs
of student organizations, they needed a bigger budget to
work with. A raise in the student activity fee seemed the

logical way to get the money needed, so the EC decided on
a student referendum.

“We wanted to get a sense of how the student commu-
nity felt about a potential raise,” said EC president Jeff
Cook. “This is something that will really help out in future
years.

According to Cook, an annual drain on the budget is a
$50,000 payment that must be made on the Student Pavilion.

. At the EC’s request, the administration made the payment

.“:'i'C3t‘1f. \/A 3‘,-$50

10%.

  
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  

t

I

1

l

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

A

   

    

nate something, that is what is important.”
Other students have planned to make the effort, how-
ever. Freshman Lincoln Rose said that he and some

SEE ‘FLC’ ON PAGE 2

.A haven: Lisa’s House opens doors Gettin’ Java with it

this year.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
HOLDING THE ROCKING CHAIRS D0wN: Sophomores Brandon Herd and Eric Olsen and Josh Davis
‘99 sit on the decorated porch of Chi Psi over Christmas Weekend.

Project Horizon ﬁnally realizes dream of sheltering victims of domestic violence

By Emily Barnes

S TA FF WRITER

A week before Thanksgiving,
Project Horizon gave thanks to the
community that helped make its dream
of a safe house for domestic violence
victims become a reality.

For those who have worked on the
Lisa's House project since it was only

4 dream, it was an emotional moment.

“This has been a dream that has
been coming for so long. . . it’s been
four active years of gathering money
and planning and starting to do this.
lt’s really a dream come true for a lot of
people,” said Pamela Simpson, secre-
tary on Project Horizon’s board of di-
rectors.

Project Horizon came up with the
idea to build a shelter for victims of
domestic violence one year after the
organization’s establishment in 1983.

lhe house is named in honor of
Lisa Vincent Knick, a psychologist at
Rockbridge County High School who
was killed in 1990 by her husband

 

during a domestic dispute. Jerry Knick,

a police dfﬁcer, used his service re-
volver to shoot his wife once in the
head at close range. He was convicted
of second degree murder, and was re-
leased from prison after serving a 4 1/2
year term.

Before the Lisa’s House dedication
ceremony, Simpson said that when
president of Project Horizon’s board
of directors, Brian Richardson talks
about the success of the project and
the community members who made it
possible, he starts to cry. Richardson
himself said that when he saw the faces
of those who helped, in the crowd of
more than one hundred people, he
could not stop the tears.

“For those people who really aren‘t
directly involved to just see, right out
of the gate, that it’s a worthwhile
project, that people need help, that
there’s going to be good happening at
the end of it, and just ride into town at
their own expense. . . when l looked
out on Wednesday, that all came back
to me,” Richardson said.

Richardson’is dedication speech
was ﬁlled with thanks for the organiza-

tions and individuals involved in the
project, from those who contributed
money to those who hammered nails.
in acknowledging the number of com-
munity members he wanted to recog-
nize as contributors, Richardson held
up a local telephone directory.

He especially thanked Grigg Mullen,
the local contact for the Timber
Framer’s Guild of North America.
Mullen invited volunteers from all over
the country to help, and last March
they came to Lexington to contribute
time, skills. and even timber to the
project.

“I really do think that Grigg is more
responsible than any other single vol-
unteer for Lisa’s House,” Richardson
said. “I depended on him for an incred-
ible amount and he always came
through cheerfully.”

Richardson admitted that. although
his job as ajoumalist has taught him
to know which words to use to de-
scribe the moment, this one left him
speechless.

“The words run away and hide be-
cause thejob is too big,” he said.

BEEP, BEEP, COMING THROUGH! A decorated 18-wheeler rolls through Lexington during the annual

Christmas parade last Friday.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

W Richardson told the crowd that
Lisa’s House completion is as much a

reﬂection of the community’s involve- '

ment in the project as it is of Project
Horizon's effort.

“This is a gift that you, the com-
munity, have given. . . to yourselves,”
he said.

Knick’s mother Myra Vincent, and
her sister-in-law, Kate Vincent, were
both present for the dedication cer-
emony. Kate Vincent, and her husband,
Clinton Vincent, are the guardians of
Lisa Knick’s children. Myra Vincent
cut the ribbon herself, making the
opening of Lisa’s House official.

“I believe that some good always
comes from each tragedy if you have
faith, and I can see that it has right
here,” Myra Vincent said.

Simpson said that Project Horizon
may move into its administrative offices
in Lisa’s House as early as Nov. 29. She
said the contractor will continue to work
on the shelter space, which should be
opened by mid-December.

The crowd closed the dedication
ceremony by singing “Bless this
House.” Pharr offered her own bless-
ing for Lisa's House, to end the thanks-
giving celebration that came a week
early for Project Horizon members.

“May we celebrate the steps we
have taken. . . may we create peace,”
she said.

Cook says that while he’s disappointed with the tum-
out, ‘‘I’m pleased with the results. Hopefully students will

feel like they’ve participated in the process.”

Dr. Horton applies for grant money to
open Wednesday night cafe at the GHQ

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

Miss your late-night coffee? A
new plan is in the works to turn the
GHQ into a coffeehouse on Wednes-
day nights.

Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Health
Services at Washington and Lee, has
applied for a mini-grant from the Vir-
ginia Alcoholic Beverage Control to
fund “Java at the GHQ.” This coffee-
house would be open on Wednesday
nights from 8 p.m. to l a.m., and serve
coffee and alcohol-free beverages and
desserts. It would be staffed entirely
by students.

Horton’s grant also proposed that
student organizations sponsor eve-
nings, either volunteering to work or
else commit to an evening. Some or-
ganizations, like the SAB and
Mindbending Productions, would pro-
vide entertainment such as student
bands or improv nights. Other possi-
bilities include karaoke, open mike
nights, comedians, and professional
acts.

“We want to try to replace what
people miss about the Ruse by giving
students a place to gather,” Horton said.

Horton said she will learn of the
ABC’s decision sometime later this

month. If the project is awarded the
grant, Horton says that “Java at the
GHQ” will begin

Horton has applied for, $3,500, the
maximum amount a school can apply
for. She said that the Student Activi-
ties Coordinator agreed to match any
funding the project receives from the
ABC, thus giving the project a pos-
sible total budget of $7,000. This
money would pay for the staff, public-
ity, coffee and supplies, entertainment,
and evaluation surveys. The surveys
would determine the dynamics of stu-
dents and non—students who go to
“Java at the GHQ,” the reasons for at-
tending, and suggestions for improv-
ing the program.

Horton says that if the program
goes well, the University Commons
that will be built in the next few years
mighthave a similar coffeehouse. ln-
put from student surveys will be used
to determine the dynamics of students
who go to the coffeehouse, and what
kinds of activities or events they
would like for the program to include.

The Virginia ABC has $25,000 set
aside for grants to colleges and uni-
versities that propose programs that
promote responsible drinking, preven-
tion for underage drinking or de-em-
phasize alcohol culture.

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 itttng-tum lﬂlii
December 6, 1999

Lex Christmas joy spreads

Buying textbooks on-line

Basketball: winners and losers

Apocalypse 2000 preview

PAGE 3
PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

WoMEN’s BASKETBALL: Senior Ansley
Miller gets defensive. See page 5.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

PAGE 2

@112

Iﬂtng-tum lﬂhi

WS

DECEMBER 6, 1999

ll .'  i

. -.

Phbio by David Hanson/AssistantPhoto Editor

STILL ROCK N’ ROLL TO ME. .. SAB’s Wednesday Christmas Weekend concert featured the W&L battle of the bands.

Celtic
Connection

 

Find that s ecial holiday gift! See
our selec ion of ﬁne im orted
goods from Ireland, Scot and, 85
other Celtic lands!

jewelry ° artwork ° crystal ° china °swcaters
scarves ° throws ' books ° collectibles

Guinness items ' T-shirts ° music 'food
Free Wrappiiigl Shipping Available.

10% 0/fany tartan tie or scar/‘wit/1 this ad

Don’t go home with the same old gifts! We have

something unique for every budget.

19 W. Nelson St.
(across the street from the movie theater)
Daily 10-5:30PM 8L Sundays
through Christmas, noon-/ll’M

540-/L6/l--65/1-5
wvvw.celticconncx.com

‘FLC’ from page 1

friends are going as a group to buy the cans.

“A large group of us are going to Wal-Mart and buy-
ing a lot of cans,” Rose said. ‘‘It should be fun, and
since it's for a good cause I can spend a few dollars and
get some cans.”

The FLC is an organization made up of 1 1 freshmen
at Washington and Lee that are chosen through an ap-
plication process at the start of each year. The group's
job is to design projects and events involving their
classmates.

According to Presley, the group hopes the food drive
uniﬁes the freshman class.

“We came in as the biggest class in W&L history
and we need to do something with that strength,” Presley
said. “We are hoping this really brings us together, not
just as a class, but with the rest ofthe school as well.”

According to Pollina, students can bring their non-
perishable can donations to the University Center on
Dec. 8th.

There will be volunteers from the freshman class there
to accept the cans, as well as a Ryder truck, which was
donated for the_ day. Students will load the truck and
hopefully fill it with students’ donations. Pollina says
she thinks it will be a success.

“I know a lot of students are really excited about this.
It is a chance for Washington and Lee students to actu-
ally help out around Rockbridge County by providing
some food for the hungry. It also allows them to show
some of the Christmas spirit and give a little of them-
selves.”

 

Stuart wins Poetry prize

Dabney Stuart has been awarded the 1999 Bess Hokin
Prize from Poetry magazine. The award, one of eight annual
prizes given by Poetry, is for Stuart's poems that appeared in
the Jan. and April issues of the prestigious magazine.

Stuart has been a member of the English department
faculty at Washington and Lee University since 1965 and
currently serves as the S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor. Set-
tlers, his 17th book, was published in October by the Loui-
siana State Press.

Poetry was founded in Chicago in 19 l 2 by Harriet Mon-
roe. It has the longest uninterrupted publication of any
poetry journal in the United States.

W&L Candlelight service

Washington and Lee University's annual Christmas
Candlelight Service will be held Thursday, Dec. 9, at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. The public is invited to attend.

The service of Nine Lessons and Carols, broadcast each
year from King's College, University of Cambridge, and
widely used both in England and in the U.S., is an ancient
form for corporate worship during the Christmas season.
The prayers, lessons and hymns tell the story of sacred
history from the Creation to the Incarnation.

Music for the traditional service will be provided by the
University Chamber Singers, conducted by Gordon Spice,
W&L professor of music. Timothy Gaylard, W&L profes-
sor of music, will be the organist for the service. Readers
for the service are chosen from the University community
and include Ted DeLaney, Holt Merchant, Elizabeth Oliver,
Brian Murchison, Melissa Cox, Kelly Kopcial '96, and Lewis
John '58. Thomas V. Litzenburg Jr., acting University chap-
lain, will preside over the service.

The annual Christmas Candlelight Service is sponsored
by the University Federation. Donations will be given to
Total Action Against Poverty.

Lenfest sponsors Holiday Concerts

On Dec. 7 at 7 p.m. in the Lenfest Center, the Wash-
ington and Lee University Chorus presents its annual
concert, featuring the Lexington Presbyterian Church
Handbell Choir. Also appearing will be a cappella groups
JubiLee, Southern Comfort and General Admission.

3 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-1501

 

“We ’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. -11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

I

At these prices, it’s too bad
we don’t sell cars.

Maybe one day we will sell cars, food and everything else you need. But right now, it's great deals on textbooks everyday. You can save up to 40%, and you'll get your books

in l to 3 days. Not that you would, but don't sweat using 0 credit card. VarsityBooks.com is l00% guaranteed secure. Try saying that about u new SUV.

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS.

  C_V,VarsityBooks.icom

 

at

DECEMBER 6, 1999

G Ellie iiiing-tum iﬂlii .
PIN ION 

Dance naked with lots o’ beer on Christmas Eve

As I walked past a church on Sunday morning, I was
blessed with hearing a jovial chorus singing “Joy to the
World”. At that moment I was considering changing my

who always offers your girlfriend his “candy cane”. That
and drinking. Lots. Of Jaegermeister.
Another thing I really love about Christmas are all of

tree out front, the fraternity houses decorated in their own

Square and Phi Delt’s A+ decorations, in the dorms, and
unique” way, and of course, the many off—campus houses

through the bottles being tipped back Christmas Week-

religion in order to partake in the fes-

tivities. The happy group put a smile
on my face and made me forget I was
horribly hungover and on my way to
a meeting.

  
  

V, rch Balderdash
 Michael Crittenden 01

the Christmas lights. As I was walk-
ing to my car from dinner last night
with my date down Main St. in Lex
Vegas, it struck me how beautiful the

The spirit of Christmas is one that’s
irreplaceable. It makes me want to table dance and sing “O
Christmas Tree” while wearing reindeer antlers. Uh . . . in fact,
I have to admit that this has actually happened to me. Fre-
quently. Not that there’s anything wrong with that . . .
Christmas reminds me of everything that’s good in the
world, friendship, presents, togethemess, drunk Uncle Ron

Heather’s guide
to beating ﬁnals

Folks — I have news for you: There’ s one week left in
fall term. It’s time to ﬂip the switch from chill mode to “uh-
oh” mode. Those papers that are due have no chance of
extension and you can only wait so long to take those
finals. The alarm clock’s going off, but there’s no snooze
button to buy you more time.

So, to help you out with these last two weeks, I’ve com-
piled a list of helpful (procrastination) tips. If they don’t

I work—don’t blame me, I’m just the copy editor.

First things ﬁrst: Never study in your own room. Go to
the library. During ﬁnals, the library is ﬁlled with people
who never walked into the library and before now have
declared residency in Leybum. While spending twelve hours
in the library taking study breaks from study-breaking will
not help you
pass those ﬁ-
nals, you will
deﬁnitely make
new friends
and keep in
touch with the old. I manage to run into everyone I’ve ever
known whenever I go into the library.

If you’re studying in the library, you can’t have food,
right? WRONG.Well, you’re not supposed to, but that’s
what you’re pockets are for. Stash those munchies in the
coat pockets and bring some napkins so you don’t taint
the book pages with potato chip grease. You can’t really
study without proper amounts of food, because there is
scientiﬁc proof that ample amounts of processed cheese
products increases blood ﬂow to the brain and therefore
makes you smarter. Well. Maybe.

If you have moral issues with breaking the almighty law

of Leybum, you should just go to the Co-op and chill with
the rest of the Co-op rats (ahem). On a very serious note,
the Co-op is the most wonderful place in the world during
ﬁnals. They have free coffee and soda after 6 p.m. during
ﬁnals week. This is the greatest idea ever invented, be-
cause it allows me to chug coffee in ridiculously danger-
ous amounts thereby wrecking my nervous system.
1 If you’re not hungry but still need a study break, you
can always clean your room. No really, cleaning your room
is extremely carthartic when your mind is foggy. Plus by
the time you’re starting to have nightmares on Dante and
marketing analysis, cleaning your room is a lot more fun
than studying and seems much more productive than play-
ing a tenth round of Bond on Nintendo.

Yeah, ﬁnals suck. Thank goodness that there are a mil-
lion and one ways to have fun with them. However, the
only way to really get through them is to study.

But hey, only one more temi before Spring Term!

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁlii

Polly Doig

Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Coffee Talk
Heather McDonald_‘01

 

Executive Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photb Editor Lisa Lin
Dave Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wiu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

   
  

lights really are. Yeah it sounds sappy,
but I know I am not the only one who
got excited as a kid when all ofthe Christmas lights went
up around town. I remember back in Lewiston this one
house that would start decorating weeks, no months, ahead
of any other house in town so that they could be the best.

It’s this feeling of Christmas warmth that comes to me
as I sit here writing. Lee House lit up with the Christmas

whose owners take the time to decorate. The winner this
year has to be Otterville on Randolph St. Not only does it
have over 5,000 lights, a tree on the roof, toy soldiers, a
crazy amount of candy canes (once they get them back
from Munster and Penthouse), and other holiday cheer,
but you can also see the damn thing from the Colonnade.
So kudos to the Otterville girls Alexis, Jean, Carly, Tara,
and Steph for kicking ass and taking names as always.
Now, back to the story. The thing I love about Christ-
mas is that it isn’t just a day of the year, but it is a season.
A sense of being that warms the heart like a nice shot of
Booker’s bourbon. The Christmas spirit infects the soul

end. You can feel it in the atmosphere around campus (de-
spite those damn, ****ing ﬁnal things, that’s how they get
you), with people around campus with a gleam in their
eyes. People are happy, having fun Christmas Weekend
(it’s that egg-nog that gets you, I swear). ’

Once again, back to the story. Everyone should enjoy
the pervasive Christmas spirit that infects the campus. Ei-
ther that, or grab a bottle of good bourbon and find the
Christmas spirit. Live, love, and be with friends.Give some-
one a hug, be friendly, and stand under the mistletoe with
your date (even if she doesn’t realize it). Oh yeah, and stop
by I 17 Randolph street and check out the lights. It’s funny,

       

and fills the mind, wafting across the Hill, through Red

 ‘“ iiisiiiili

. in

really. No really, it’s funny.

.-A c

      

»%}:‘v‘~:«.?‘&«

   

elebrate,” Carly ‘Blakelock”said.p 9 I

near or JdY:. This glowing rotgeoiigns up aim. Rgfnao1ph.:s; , 
ive there, spent niaiiyliours decorating«,their;homfe:fcal '  _
4 Mth tinsel andliights, and morethan 5,000 lights I   

 
  
 

» g 3 pt.» « jty:saa;a?;.:s°a..":7;¢"aa;a  .

  

Y2K coming: Enjoy your New Year’s celebration I

I worked at a newspaper over the summer, and being a
mere 18-year-old intern, I covered “Town Meeting to Dis-
cuss Implementation of New Postage Stamp,” and “Start-
ing Kindergarten: Traumatizing or Educational?” So
when I was assigned to cover a forum addressing the
“problems” of Y2K, I expected the usual group of 60-
year-old women biding time before Matlock started, ve-
hemently protesting an issue that would never mani-
fest itself in reality. Never did I entertain the notion that I
would be entering Rockland County’s

their pointless jobs: “Now here is a man who needs NO
introduction... James Raven Madd, head of the Y2K commit-
tee working to prevent household appliance breakdown!”
Their speeches were akin to Jeff Cook’s introduction to the
honor code in Lee Chapel... dramatic dissertations petrifying
everyone to the point where they wouldn’t sneeze or shift
positions in their seat for fear of breaking the silence. The
only difference between Lee Chapel and Rockland
County’s Y2K Forum was that while J eff warned against
being thrown out of school, these

official headquarters of meaningless
ignorance and paranoia.

My first mistake was signing 

,   Northetiiersﬁrposure
" Kris Pollina ’05

ofﬁcials advised (I kid you not)
to buy “at least a three months
supply of feminine hygiene prod-

the sign in sheet. Two huge secu-

rity guards manned the entrance of the forum, leaving me
wondering what I had gotten myself into and wondering
ifthis was a cult planning the assassination ofthe presi-
dent. I wasn’t permitted to settle into a comfortable
folding chair until I wrote_down my name, address, e-
mail address, phone number, social security, pets’ names,
parents’ names, brand oftoothpaste...I am still receiv-
ing notices of Y2K forums to this day.

Pen behind my ear, steno pad on my arm, I listened
to guest speaker after guest speaker instill fear into the
hearts of everyone, all nervously wringing their hands,
looking like a herd of deer caught in headlights. I marveled at
how each “official” had adopted their own euphemisms for

TALKback

ucts,” because “you’d hate to be
without them if the factories happened to shut down.”
That in itself was bad enough. My notes were virtually
illegible, scrawled phrases of “contingency plans” and
“inﬂux of public concern.” I dreaded getting arbitrary
quotes from attendees, but I cornered a few paranoid an-
droids alter the meeting. This line of questioning only yielded
incoherent rambling infused with utter fear: “It is our re-
sponsibility as conscientious citizens to monitor the single
biggest celebration of the century!” Probably the funniest
aspect of the evening was how each official kept mentioning
how Rockland County received the highest rating in “Y2K
preparedness.”
The entire invasion of Y2K fear is just a mere manifes-

 

“Grab a few beers and hang out
with friends. . .that’s the plan.”
—Joel Ditetzman ’02

“Anything casual — rugby shirts,
jeans, and ascics. . .No Biggie!”
-Evan Oremland ’03

have a great beach party.”
-Ibraiz Imani ‘O3

“I hope to go back to Bombay and

tation of boredom. Why worry about my politics ﬁnal when
I can muse about New Year’s Eve? And the importance of
my English paper dwarfs in comparison to the threat of my
refrigerator dying. Yes, our GPA’s may falter in our Y2K
anxieties, but at least I’ll have a reliable stock of food
lest I suffer late night munchies. Are we really that
starved for something to worry about that we need to
lose sleep over what promises to be the biggest party
ofthe century? At least I know I can rely on W&L stu-
dents, if not the rest of the world, to forego the Y2K
apprehensions and spend more time concentrating on
the social implications ofa New Year’s Eve party wel-
coming us into a new millennium.

 

Please grow one testicle,
then work on the other.

)}

—— Frustrated Phi editor

“I want to see my mom in Jamaica
and taste some of her fine cooking.’
—Camille Mwaisela ’02

7

 

PAGE 4

DECEMBER 6, 1999

Signature Student
(Sam Bazzygo/z ‘02

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

What kind of a man would say
that, given the chance to wipe out
anything in the world, he would
choose alarm clocks? Meet sopho-
more Sam Langholz, one of the

from 1996- 1 997. This politically ac-
tive student’s eventual career
plans?

“I don’t really know," he said.
“At this point I’m enjoying my time
here at W&L and hoping that in-
spiration will come to me!”

W&L student body’s busiest
members. Langholz is unde-
clared in his major, but likely
to choose politics. He is the
Sigma Nu house manager and
alumni chair, as well as the
chairman of College Republi-
cans, the founding chairman of
the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Model Congress, and
the Mock Convention’s Iowa ‘
chairman.

Think you understand his
hatred of alarm clocks? Add in
his being a member of the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee,
University Chamber Singers,
and General Admission, a work
study student in the Duchossois
Tennis Center, as well as a highly
academically ranked student, and
the picture becomes even clearer!
His fetish against alarm clocks has
not stopped him from committing to
be a dorm counselor next year, how-
ever.

Langholz is a very proud native
of Clear Lake, Iowa —— incidentally,
one of only two Iowans at W&L.

This summer he worked for the
Clear Lake Chamber of Commerce,
promoting tourism in the business
community. Perhaps more interest-
ingly to those who have caught the
Mock Con fever, Langholz served
as a volunteer for Governor George
W. Bush’s presidential campaign
during the Iowa Straw Poll.

“I was very impressed with the
governor,” he said. “He came to my
hometown of Clear Lake. . . what was
really neat was that he spoke for 20
minutes and then took an hour and
a half to speak with every person 
he was very personable and charis-
matic and a great person to work
for.”

Langholz served as a captain of
a bus, responsible for gathering up
and transporting people to and from
the poll to vote.

Sam is most proud of having
been a congressional page and
working for Speaker Newt Gingrich

    

Photo courtesywof tlie_Ci17yx

In his rare spare time, he enjoys
playing the violin, something he
has done since he was two-and-a-
half.

Q: What is your favorite cartoon
character?

A: I’m a big fan of Scooby Doo,
because Scooby Doo can solve any
problem and save the day.

Q: What would you do if you
won the lottery?

A: I’d give some to George Bush
and save the rest for a rainy day.

Q: What is the best Halloween
costume you ever had?

A: I was an Iowan scarecrow
when I was 4 years old. My mommy
made it for me. It was really itchy.

Q: What is your best/funniest
Christmas memory?

A: When I was 5 years old and
my little brother had just been born,
I was convinced that I had ﬁgured
it all out. I knew that there wasn’t a
Santa Claus. . . because I knew that
really there was this group of people
that ﬂew around in the sky and
dropped the presents off for your
parents to give you . . .and they
coordinated all the guys in the red
suits to.be Santas in all the mall. . . I
promised my parents that I wouldn’t
tell my little brother.

Q: And when did you finally find
out that your theory wasn’t true?

A: What are you talking
about?

Buy textbooks, don’t

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

A new semester is rapidly approach-
ing Washington and Lee University,
which means it is once again time to
take a trip to the bookstore.

The book-buying experience, how-
ever, can often be a very unpleasant
one when a student realizes he has just
paid $60 for a thin, paperback book. Due
to this cost, many W&L students are
buying their textbooks online.

“I think buying textbooks online is
a great alternative to the high prices of
the W&L Bookstore,” junior Deena
Johnson said. “It seems that you can
rarely find used history books in the
bookstore, and as a history major who
has to buy a lot of books, it is cheaper
for me to get a discount by buying the
books I need over the intemet.”

Two of the largest online college
bookstores are www.ecarnpus.com and
www.varsitybooks.com. The
eca.rnpus.com site claims to be “The
globe’s largest college bookstore with
over three million items.”

Online textbook sellers such as

these usually have the course reading 9

lists from universities all over the na-
tion. Varsitybooks.com, for example,
allows a student to simply click on a
state or region in order to access a vari-
ety of college reading lists.
BecauseofW&L’ssmallsize, itsiead-
ing lists are often excluded in such lists.
In this case students can simply obtain
their appropriate course syllabi and
search the sites by book title, author or
ISBN number to find what they need.
The advantage of online shopping

All you need for Christ

By Ashley Hodgson

STAFF WRITER

 

Upcomingevents

Monday, Dec. 6

Tuesday, Dec. 7‘

7 :00 p.m. Holiday Choral Concert. Keller Theatre. » T?

9:00 pm. “BiloxiBlues”.
Wednesday, Dec. 8

7 S-6:30 p.m. Christmas Dinner. Evans Dining Hall. 
5:00 pm. Basketbal1(W)vs.CatholieUniyeisity. 
7:00 p.m. Basketball(M)vs.Emory&Henty. , 0 '‘
7:00 pm. Swimming(W)vs.SweetBriar. ,  I K V
7:30 p.ni. Contact Lecture. Dr.  0‘ ‘

economist. Lee Chapel. A

Thursday, Dec. 9

8:00 p.m. 

Saturday, Dec. 11

2:00 pm. Undergrad exams begin.  , 

8:00 pm. FAIRConcei-t. “A RockbridgeC ' as,”/. .
Rockbridge Choral Society and the Rockbridge ‘
Youth Chorale with chamber orchestra and

soloists. Jackson Memorial

Monday, Dec. 13 --Friday, Dec.i1i7}?

9:00 a.m., Undergrad exams.

Womenfs rush begins Tuesday, a
Jan. 42%, and c/asses resume :
on Wednesday, Jan. 52%.

Happy: Holidays from the Phil _;

8 :00 pm. “Biloxi Blues” by Neil Simon. Directedbyi I
Holly Estes. Johnson Theatre. ‘

 
      

     
  

Hall.

  

Christmas is here again, as is the
mad rush to buy Christmas presents
for family and friends — a job that,
luckily, is easy to do in a town like
Lexington.

“Here there are little shops that
kind of have knick-knacky things,”
said freshman Mary Carol Mazza. “If
you buy a sweater here, it’s probably
going to be hand knitted.”

Candles, arts and crafts items, pic-
ture frames, chocolates and scents are
in abundance in the many gift shops
Lexington has to offer. For Mom, stu-
dents often buy unique cookbooks,
Christmas ornaments or scented
candles.

Although Lexington offers lots of
shopping for women’ s gifts, creative stu-
dents can ﬁnd presents for everyone.

Students generally feel that Dad is
more difficult to shop for in Lexing-
ton, but some students get clever and
buy him hand-painted book-ends,

rafter this, the corporate ladder

is that many sites offer students signiﬁ-
cant discounts on textbooks, sometimes
up to 50 percent. It is also relatively easy
to make money by selling unwanted text-
books over the Internet and most elec-
tronic book sellers maintain buyback
and auction options.

“The more used books we have on
our site, the more opportunities you
have to save money. Period,” claims the
ecampus.com website.

Ordering online is also extremely safe
according to online bookstores, so stu-
dents can feel secure submitting their
credit card numbers over the Internet.

Two W&L students have devel-
oped what they believe may be an even
better alternative than the currently ex-
isting online bookstores. Seniors Will-
iam Karmer and Steven Klotz have de-
veloped a type of online bookstore
based on the speciﬁc needs of W&L
students.

“The purpose of the site is to give
students a chance to buy and sell books
to each other and get a better deal than
if they were to do the same thing in the
bookstore or through one of the book
buyback companies that come to town,”
Kanner said.

The site, known as RICE, was devel-
oped aﬁer Kanner and Klotz discovered
that Rice University maintains a site that
serves a similar fimction. Students use
their name and a password of their
choosing to access the site, found at
http://asp.wlu.edu/rice and soon to be
part of the W&L home page.

RICE is a trading post for textbooks
where a student can list the name, con-
dition and asking price for a book that
he would like to sell.

genuine “Shenandoah Valley” Bar-B-
Q sauce, hiking boots, or W&L
shotglasses.

W&L memorabilia makes a good
gift for any family member, of course.
“This is my ﬁrst year here and I
thought that buying gifts here would
be a neat thing to do for my family,”
said freshman Susan Slopek, who
bought each family member a W&L t-
shirt.

For friends, Y2K memorabilia is
popular this year. With the year 2000
coming up, calendars, planners, cof-
fee table books and party favors have
been selling more quickly than in past
Christmas seasons.

“Joumals are big this year,” said
Lucia Owens, owner of Sunday’s Child.
“That could be part of the millennium
idea. People are realizing they have a
new century to work on their hopes
and dreams.”

Sunday’s Child, Crossroads, and
Hallmark are popular places to buy less
expensive gifts for friends.

“I think many students shop at

 

“It is a tip off
service where in-
terested students
can use the con-
tact information
supplied by the
person selling the
book to get in
touch with that
person to negoti-
ate prices or buy,”
Kariner said.

Despite the
growing popular-
ity of online shop-
ping fortexlbooks,
there are still
many in the W&L
community who
believe that the
Bookstore is the
best way to shop.

“The best ad-
vantage to shop-
ping in the book-
store is that a stu-
dent can just walk
in and pick the
books off of a
shelf instead of
waiting for the books to come in the
mail,” Brenda Reese of the W&L Book-
store said. “The price of the book is
about the same in the bookstore aﬁer
the student pays for the postage and
handling of books ordered online.”

“Most other bookstores in the state
mark up their books more than we do,”
Reese continued. “Of course we are try-
ing to break even, but we are not trying
to make money off of the students. We
work as a service to students.”

3

‘X

3

E

I J

A

T:
E.‘
‘:1
C
(I;

Hallmark mostly '
because it has a
large number of
gifts for under
$15,” said Donna
Tyree,managerof
the local Hall-
mark. “We see a
lot of people
shopping for Se-
cret Santas.”
The many
bookstores in
town are also
good places to
ﬁnd gifts for any
age group.
“People usu-
ally get The New
York Times Best
Sellers as gifts
because they’re
highly recom-
mended,” Anna-
Lisa Fitzgerald,
The Best Seller’s manager, pointed out.
Lexington may be small, but there

   

will be a piece of

[cakel

in Army ROTC, you'll get to do stuff that'll challenge you, both physically and mentally. in the
process, you'll develop skills you can use in your career, like thinking on your feet, making smart
decisions, taking charge. Talk to your Army ROTC representative. You'll find there's nothing like

a little climbing to help prepare you for getting to the top.

ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take.

mas in

  

go into debt

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

The University Bookstore is preparing for the
upcoming semester by ordering and shelving
thousands of textbooks.

Students can also be assured that
the Bookstore will always have the
books they need, since professors are
required to summit their course require-
ments to the bookstore in advance.
W&L students also have the beloved
advantage of charging their books
home when they buy in the Bookstore.

Buying and trading online may not
always save a student money, but the
possibility of discounts and other ad-
vantages make it worth checking out.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Susan Woodward ’03 and Laura Wilson ’03
begin their holiday shopping at Pumpkinseeds.

is plenty available to ﬁnish your
Christmas shopping.

 

 

   

 

DECEMBER 6, 1999

 

SE6 “RT s

PAGE 5

Women’s basketball lives up to
pre-season hype, opens season 3-1

By Robert Turner

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s basketball team, which
has been touted as possibly the best in W&L history, have
opened their season in impressive fashion. After dropping a
close battle to Wellesley, the Generals eamed convincing
victories over Randolph-Macon and Lynchburg and then a
close win over Eastern Mennonite on Friday.

The Generals return ten of thirteen letter winners, four of
whom started for the Generals last season. That team last
season made it to the ODAC semifinals for the first time in
school history.

Leading the team on and off the court in the 1999-2000
season will be senior co-captains and three year starters Jes-
sica Morton and Ansley Miller. Morton and Miller will share
duty in the Generals’ backcoiirt. Also returing is sophomore
Jessica Mentz, last year’s leading scorer and ODAC player
of the year. Mentz will play in the post along with classmates
Megan Babst and Leslie Fischbeck. Sophomore guards Sa-
rah Schmidt and Alison Kudlacik are also back from last year’s
team which won a school record thirteen games.

“Aﬁer completing last season on a strong note, all of our
expectations are high. With the return of many experienced
players, as well as the addition of new talent, we possess a
wealth of offensive weapons. This group [is] dedicated, en-
thusiastic, and eager to win,” head coach Terri Dadio Campbell
said.

The Generals opened their season by traveling to the
Wellesley Invitational Tournament on Nov. 20. Though they
were defeated in the opening round 71-53 by host Wellesley,
they did put up an impressive performance. W&L led early in
the game, but the Blue ralled to a 34-27 halftime lead that they
would not relinquish. The Generals were led by Morton and
Mentz, who each finished the game with fourteen points.

In the consolation game, the Generals bounced back fro

Still looking for
win number one

By Mike Weil

S TA FF WRITER

The Washington‘ and Lee Generals men’s basketball

team’ entered the*§a;’a§orrwrth“prurnrse:anew/coacn,~and'a"

new philosophy.w"3’éf‘f Lafave now owns the reigns of the
squad after the shocking departure of head coach Kevin
Moore.

Along with him comes a new approach to the game
involving an offense with much more motion and a focus
on the fundamentals. This includes reducing turnovers,
playing tougher defense, and rebounding, in order to make
up for the lack of size on the team.

The Generals return some key upperclassmen and seven
freshmen for this year’s campaign. six-foot—six seniors Scott
Hudson and Brian Ricketts lead the team’s frontcourt.
Hudson started 17 games last season and averaged 6.8
points and 4.3 boards. Ricketts started nine games last
season and averaged 4.0 points and 3.5 boards.

The wing positions return juniors Will Ballard and Chad
Braley, along with sophomores Bob Bustamante and
Quincy Springs. They all showed capabilities of being
outside threats last year. Senior Walt Plyler runs the point
guard position; he is now fifth all-time at W&L with 231
assists. Freshmen forwards Ryan Small and Jake McAlister
are promising prospects this year along with freshman
guard Will Cotter.

Thus far this new offensive strategy has not seemed to
work, as the Generals have gotten off to an 0-4 start, 0-2 in
the ODAC. However, one of these losses came at the hands
of Division I Harvard in which the game was within reach
until midway through the second half. Harvard closed out
the game with a score of 43-72. Another came at the hands

Swimming tops
R-MWC 116-60

Women improve record to 5-2

Washington and Lee's women's swimming team claimed
victories in seven of nine individual races en route to a
1 16-60 triumph over Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
on Wednesday night in Lexington, Va.

The Generals started the meet with a win in the 200-yard
medley relay in a time of 2:0 1 .44. They then proceeded to
take the first seven individual events before the Wildcats
claimed a win. No swimmer for W&L tallied more than one
victory on the day. ‘

The seven individual winners for W&L were freshman
Michelle Moore in the 1000-yard freestyle (l2:23.87), jun-
ior Katie Kennedy in the 200-yard freestyle (2205.02), sopho-
more Caitlin FitzRandolph in the 50-yard freestyle (26.79),
freshman Katie Kolle in the 200-yard IM (2225.64), fresh-
man Blair Huffman in the 200-yard butterﬂy (2: 19.48), fresh-
man Kelli Austin in the 100-yard freestyle (57.06), and se-
nior Lauren Beckenhauer in the 200-yard backstroke
(2:25.l7).

Michelle Proses claimed both individual victories for
the Wildcats, winning the 500-yard freestyle (6224.07) and
the 200-yard breaststroke (3224.90). RMWC also won the
200-yard freestyle relay in a time of 1:58.90.

With the win, W&L improves to 5-2 on the season,
while the Wildcats fall to 1-4. The Generals return to the
pool on December 8th, when they host ODAC member
Sweet Briar College at 7:00 pm.

—Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

their loss to win over the Wildcats of Randolph-Macon 60-
49. W&L was led by sophomore guard Carter Thomas’ ca-
reer high seventeen points. Babst also had a good showing,
scoring eleven points to go along with her 19 rebounds,
while Schmidt chipped in twelve points.

W&L stayed on a roll in their home opener on Wednes-
day defeating Lynchburg College for a vital ODAC victory.
The Generals, leading 26-15, looked poised to break the game
open late in the first half before the Hornets tood advantage
of W&L’s foul troubles to score twelve unanswered points.

The Generals, though, regained their composure and re-
gained the lead 36-33 at intermission. From then on, the
W&L cruised through the second half to a 76-59 victory.
Babst (14 points and 14 rebounds) and Mentz (1 1 points and
12 rebounds) posted double-doubles for the Generals. That
was Babst’s second straignt double-double, who also threw
up a school record six blocks.

Friday’ 5 matchup against EMU was a tougher contest for
the Generals. Mentz was benched ten minutes inot the game
with sprained ancle. Babst picked up the slack with a perfor-
mance nothing short of amazing. Babst scored another
double-double with 28 points and 21 rebounds.

Mentz remains optimistic about her chances to get in
tomoirow’s game against number one ranked Bridgewater
and the team’s outlook on the season.

“I really want to play and the ancle is healing quickly.
Bridgewater is beatable. Our expectations are very high. We
have the ability to beat everyone in the converence and I
think we’ll do it,” she said.

All in all, it was an impressive opening of the season for
the Generals. With this group of talent many more records
should fall and the team’s foundation for a strong basketball
presence will be further built upon. Judging from the particu-
larly deep sophomore class, this trend should continue for
several more years.

-—Additi

al repor ' 2 bv Steele Cooper

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

WORKING our THE KINKS: Senior Walt Plyer and the Generals focus on the basics in Friday’s practice.

of Hampden Sydney who are now ranked second in the
nation for Division III, 50-82. ~

The other two came in tight contests with Middlebury
(69-72) and ODAC foe Bridgewater (71-78). The latest loss
to Hampden Sydney was highlighted by Bustamante and
freshman guard Toussaint Crawford who each tallied 10
points.

Sophomore Quincy Springs offered insight to the Gen-
erals slow start. “We have started our season with four
straight away games, two of which were our opponents
home openers. We’re still trying to learn how each other
play, and it’s still early in the season. We’re still adjusting
to each other.”

    
  

 ’ S I 

 

In regard to the new motion offense applied by Lafave,
Springs says “the motion offense is far superior to what
we had last year. We have so many guards on our team
that it gives us the opportunity to exploit our strengths.”

The early losses have also prompted the Generals to
fortify their basics in proctices. “We’re working on our
fundamentals after this. We’re strengthening our defen-
sive principles and trying to establish more continuity on
offense,” said Hudson.

The Generals open their home schedule this Wednes-
day against Emory and Henry, tipoff at 7200 p.m. “This
game will be a very important one for us because we need
to get a win before heading into the break,” said Hudson.

® TOYOTA

T0"0T/\-101

MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY
INTRODUCING THEALLNEW

TOYOWR

Starinuner $10,000 —- About $12,000 well equipped.

THERE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outeiole, great room on the ineicle.
Cruise the highway at 40 Mi’G’...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi~teoh
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve tirning (new) that kicke out 105 horsepower
any time you want it. Anal heat of all, Echo etarte atjuet $9,995?

‘ ,’vV"i"’:-lV'*2”=iljh.c:e» P’ am thru Toyota Motor Creolit helpe those with limited
credit hietory buy or leaee a new Echo or Celioa. See olealer for eletaile.

 TOYQTA "?.°‘ "°‘.'..‘l.‘i?'._.‘.*.§’.5*7?’ “°Y WWWQBWOVOW -0001

'l3l’:\ estiiiialctl 32/39 City/llvuy auloinalic, 31/-ll (:ll)'/ll\V‘,' m.mu.il 'l$.ise MSRI’ L'X('lllLllllg trarispmialmn, tux, lugs and regionally required cquipmcnl

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor I
Senior Ansley Miller and sophomore Jessica Mentz fortify the defence for the Generals on Friday 1
night against Eastern Mennonite University. Mentz was injured only ten minutes into the contest 
but still hopes to play when the Generals face ODAC top-ranked Bridgewater College tonight. 3

Volleyball legend

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Nancy Reinhart, a senior outside hitter for the Wash— .
ington and Lee volleyball team from Louisville, Ken-J
tucky, finished her illustrious career with another first}
for W&L volleyball. This time, it was her effort offthe

court as well as on that brought her the honor.

" " Sherecently earned a selection tothe GTE Academic
All-District III Volleyball First Team. Her selection au-
tomatically qualiﬁes her for consideration for the Aca-.

demic All-American team.

Reinhart is the only W&L volleyball player to be:

awarded a place on the First Team. A political science

and journalism major, Reinhart has set new standards‘
for W&L volleyball. She helped lead the team to its first‘
ever trip to the NCAA national tournament this fall in

Atlanta and its third straight ODAC tournament cham-
pionship.
The all-time leader in both kills and digs in W&L

history, Reinhart also owns 10 single-game, single—sea-»
son, and career records at W&L. She finished her se-
nior season with a remarkable total of320 kills, 429 digs,

and 37 aces.

The ODAC has definitely felt Reinhart’s presence.

She was named to the All-ODAC First Team three times,
earning Player of the Year honors her sophomore sea-
son.

In addition, she is the all-time leader in kills and digs
in ODAC history. She was also named to the ODAC
tournament First Team en route to her third straight
ODAC title.

Reinhart’s greatest thrill, however, has nothing to
do with personal records. Capping her stellar career
with a trip to nationals was the biggest thrill for this
standout athlete. “I amjust glad we had a great season.
I’m really happy with the team’s success,” Reinhart said.

ECHO

 

 
 

 

M
9 .
522
E33
EES
PAGE6 582

volume 34, issue 12 inside,
—hoW to tell
if your child
is faking an
orgasm to
avoid school
—brand new
all-ﬂogging
diet

«O-at

.-=2?»  I"

9 CR SADE-

F0 SLIM WA] LINES!

~ FRO'NI‘GUTl'ENBERG:I'O 

OPRAH’S Q,  on CLUB: THE
HISTORY o ,_TH;£ PRINTED

UPDATED LIST or
MICK CTAGGER s
VENEREAL DISEASES

DECEMBER 6, 1999

Time Magazine’s pick for Man of the Century has been much in the news lately. They chose a man who was equal parts statesman, philosopher, inventor and artist — I am talking of course
about Carrot Top. But what about the rest of the newsrack? Several prominent publications have chosen their own men/women of the year, century and millenium. Here are a few-’ ,

EXCLUSIVE INTE R‘/IEW WITH
KEITH RICHARDS’ REMAIN-
ING ORGANS!

Cor
blimeyl
Ron
Wood!

Vol. 26
Issue 13
price: $4.95

our price
$0.95

Why pay more
for the truth?

Seoul! of the centurv!

Popular
Science

price: $3.95

special
collector’s
edition

' '  ‘     " =   10 top psychics agree:
.s_e_,_,utgirr*e’E‘‘ai 1,  OJ killed
‘EA-7° “$30    J 0nBene

El‘iz:cihetlg_fI,_l-— prim’-é,_’"Vi ‘“    W 
...f‘.”.Lll"*9l! V10“mo;ré'        ~

JOOT Of

ﬁr

the man of
the century
Irving C.
Fishbaum.
inventor of
the slide rule

REBEL OITHOOT

FT POCKET

M36159 7‘g“os1ii4'
IISIISILIIYVITU‘ IIII III ._

polyps E2000 ptrrt/7i

According to Newsweek, 18% of Americans believe
that the Apocalypse, the Biblical end-battle between good
and evil, will happen in their lifetime. That’s right, nearly
ONE OUT OF EVERY FIVE of us believe that this great

guide. We’ve analyzed some of the major players in the
forces of good and evil, and listed their respective strenghts
and weaknesses. Decide for yourself which side to root
for/put money on. And if we survive till 2005. . .just forget

Let’s put common sense aside for a moment and as-
sume that this is true. In fact, let’s assume (as many of them
do) that it’s going to happen sometime next year. How are
things looking going into the big ﬁght?

Amtrak train we call planet Earth is just about to derail. Below, we offer you our Year 2000 Apocalypse battle this, OK?
Kevin Smith 7 lerry Falwell
writer/director of blasphemous movie W  S uber-preacher “
“Dogma” Sample quote: Thank
Sample quote: “Fingercuffs.” (see *‘Chas- I 6%” God this Vile and Satanic Sys-
ing Amy») tem [homosexuality] will one

day be utterly annihilated and
there‘ll be a celebration in
heaven."

Minions

Strengths: Hails from New Jersey, so you
can be sure he knows how to use a gun.

 

Weaknesses: St th Very limber
. . _ . _ reng s:
 Siimlqfﬁlce Cannlbal Corpse (able to put own foot in mouth over and over!)
a l I wn - '
ty REAL sh°Ck'mckerS ("nil/‘e Weaknesses: Logic, reason, compassion — basically

minutes of movie
dialogue without
resorting to the f-
word.

made-for-MTV media poseur
Marilyn Manson)

Sample quote: “Strangula-
tion caused her ‘death / Just like
all the others / Raped before
and after death / Stripped, na-
ked, tortured.”

Strengths: You certainly
can’t accuse them of watering
down their lyrics for radio play.

Weaknesses: You certainly

everything that separates us from the animals.

Pat Robertson

"700 CIub"f0under

Sample quote: "You're supposed
to be nice to the Episcopalians and
the Presbyterians and the Method-
ists and this, that, and the other thing.
Nonsense. I don't have to be nice to
the spirit of the Antichrist.”

Strengths: W&L alum, so he’s at

John Hagee
televangelivcal minister to scores of big-
haired Southern women and writer of apoc-

ryphal Bible interpretations
Sample quote: “To retire the remaining debt
by 2000 will require 35 million dollars.‘I know
we can do it, and here’s how" If

 2000 people will pledge to give
$2,000 by the year 2000. we will
4'33"" have our Millennium

 

Jesse “the body” Ventura
anti-religious wrestler-turned-politician
Sample quote:
“Win ifyou can, lose
if you must, but al-

 
 

   

 

waést rC:::atihs_ The can’t accuse them ofhaving any VII‘ " Mllacle-ll least honorable.
g ' redeeming value whatsoever. ‘ Stell8lll53 Eating, Weak-
power , of the S€If-I'lgIll€OUS- nessesg The
governor s office. Hess‘ eating majority of
Weaknesses: weak_ W&LalumS
l~Ie’sthe governor of n e S S e S : are legally
Minnesota, for God s Look at the braindead.
sake! gm!

   

 

Prognosis: Sorry, God. You don’t have a prayer. Satan’s got a grip on this world tighter than Roseanne on a jar of Pringles, and Your dream team
is looking a bit shaky. Our odds: Satan, 5-1. Goodbye, good; hello, Hell!

 

PROTECTOR

HOW DOES $800/WEEK EXTRA INCOME
sound to you?
Amazingly, proﬁtable opportunity.
Send self-addressed stamped envelope to:
international
1375 Coney Island Ave., PMB #427
Brooklyn, New York 11230

FLAGS

THE S UPPL Y LINE
MILITARY SURPLUS

SPECIALIZIN G'INI FLA GS, POLES
& ACCESSORIES
COMMERCIAL,RESlDENTlAL, & NOVELITY

300 STYLES & SIZES IN STOCK
STATE, COUNTRY, ANCESTORIAL &
CONFEDERATE FLAGS

HAT PINS, PATCHES,NOVELTY & CUSTOM ITEMS

MILITARY CLOTHING AND RELATED ITEMS

LOTS OF NEW AND USED CAMO
LATEST IN NEW PATTERNS AND COLORS

BOONIE & FIELD CAPS, BOOTS, WEB GEAR, PACKS,
LIGHT STICKS, CANTEENS, PEA COATS, ETC.

MAIL ORDER

LOCATED AT
3 West Main Street
Salem, Va. 24153

To Order Call 1-800-365-7163
Or Fax 1-540-375-3679 M

 

VISA
L

V

U

J‘

~(~...~—

Clliiz ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’S WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2000

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

THE BENEFITS OF SISTERHOOD: About half of the Chi Omega pledge class pose after they received their bids on Saturday, carnations in hand.

55?.
/2
- 2..
VOLUME 102, No.16
Frosh S r '
Rush 2000 goes off without a
glitch as Bid Day passes
By Max Smith
NEWSEDITOR
They came. They stood around with balloons. They
talked about their breaks. They sang. They danced.
They clapped. Some cried. Some cheered. Most were
just glad it was over come Saturday.
Sorority Rush came and went again last week. The
University Center was crowded with cookies, decora-
tions and 172 freshmen women last week.
“It ‘was a heck of an experience to meet a bunch of
people,” said freshman Laura Bruno, whojoined Kappa
Delta. “It was crazy when it was going on, but when it
was over it was fulfilling.”
Rush started Tuesday night with Philanthropy night,
in which participants made crafts for various charity
groups. Skit Night followed with the freshmen attend-
ing just four sororities. Sisterhood Night came on
Thursday, a night on which sororities show videos with
group pictures. Friday night, Preference Night, was
more serious since it featured official ceremonies as the
girls made their final choices. After narrowing down
their selections, it all ended on Saturday's Bid Day.
“I thought it would be a lot worse than it was be-
cause of horror stories I had heard from friends at other
schools,” Bruno said. “But nobody was mean here.”
“Most people had a positive rush experience,” Said
Rho Chi Hayley Hall. “It wasjust like any other year. It
ran smoothly and there were no rush violations.”
Panhellenic Rush Chairman Elizabeth Holleman re-
ported no problems as well.
“I had a lot of fun,” Holleman said. “I think a lot of
freshmen and sororities are very happy with the re-
sults.”
F 0 0 0
Greek organizations follow 10- Greek academic rankings
year trend of increasing GPAS Lpjji 40 3,374
_ 2. Lambda Chi 12 3.245
BxvMa>E< Smith 3. PiKa 33 3.241
EWS DITOR - -
4. Sigma Chi 45 3.237
The Hill won’t be putting W&L fraternities on “double 5' Phi Psi 40 3205
secret probation” for this year. Fraternities and sorori- 6- KA 28 3-167
ties posted some of the highest grades in school his— All Students 1,695 3.129
IOU’ f311t€FIT1- All fraternity men 552 3.123
pat‘t‘It’s ysetrfy inteoretstfingebeliauseagt most Schoois) the 7. SAE 48 3.114
em a m S ra mi y gr es are going wn, _
but W&L is different” said Dean of Students David 8' Slgma Nu 22 3’086
Howison. “Academics have significantly improved in 9- SPE 48 3-080
the last 10 years since the Fraternity Renaissance.” 10. Phi Delt 41 3.076
Fiji recorded the hig1he§t3average oftany Greek orga- 11_ Chi psi 34 3_063
nization on campus wit a . 74, a signi icant turnaround 947 041
from their 1 1th place ﬁnish in Winter Term 1997. Sources  m,en P , K 48 021
said Fiji’s finish was only the second time a fraternity ' (he) 1_“ _ap '
finished in front ofa sorority. The big finish came unex- P1 Pl“ 37 3-021
pected for the FIJI brothers themselves. 14. Kappa Sig I 45 3.008
“We’re pretty surprised. We’ve always done well, 15_ Beta 32 2_981
but a bunch of guys did really well this semester,” said N _f - 391 2 925
FIJI junior Andrew Simmons. “It’s not like we sit to- on ratermty men '
gether and study. We werejust Y2K-compliant.” 1. Pi Phi 68 3.331
Pi Beta Phi led the sororities with a 3.331, a post they 2. Kappa 76 3,296
also held winter term. Non-sorority women had the low- 3. Chi O 79 3293
est grades among women at W&L with a 3.178. Non- 4 All . 399 3 290
fraternity men finished last among men with a 2.925. SAE ' soronty women °
shot up to seventh last term, posting a 3.114 average 5- KD 104 3-270
GPA after spending the last two years near the bottom 6. Theta 72 3.263
Ofthe TaI1kiHgS- . O 7. All women 748 3.240
h “Phase gn.itdes]t:re a s1t1r°ng,,r:Iﬂec.tl°n ogthls 8. Non-sorority women 349 3.178
sc oo 5 commi men 0 exce ence, owison sai . 9. All Students 1,695 3.129

takes highest fall term GPA W&L’S Qpen dggr 

Two W&L juniors explored the mysteries of the Far East
(and their discos) last semester while studying in Hong Kong

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Beijing. Tiannenmen Square.
The 50th Anniversary Celebration
ofCommuniSm in China. Fireworks
and military marches. Two W&L
guys. Huge portraits of Chairman
Mao. What doesn’t fit?

It doesn’t matter what you think.
W&Ljuniors John Fuller and John
Fidler caught a flight from Hong
Kong with some other exchange
students for a celebration where
you wouldn’t expect a bunch of
Yankees to be welcome.

“We weren’t worried, but we
were the only Americans we could
see,” said Fidler.

The two spent last term in Hong
Kong as part of an exchange pro-
gram with Chung Chi College, part
ofthe Chinese University of Hong
Kong. '

History professor Roger Jeans,
who has taught both students,
was impressed with their trip to
Beijing.

“I thought it was buccaneerish
in the extreme,” Jeans said. “It was
brave ofthem because there could

have been trouble with their po-
lice.”

The two hadn’t taken Chinese
before, but that waSn’t a problem
since most people in Hong Kong
speak English, especially at the
college. Fidler took business
classes, while Fuller Stuck with
Chinese history. Both took Chi-
nese as well. Hong Kong was
“faSt-paced and frenetic” for
Fidler.

Outside the classroom, Fuller

and Fidler took advantage oftheir,

Far East locale with several trips.
They went to the Philippines,
which Fidler said was “pretty Third
World” ever since several Ameri-
can military bases moved out.
They also travelled to Thailand,
where the people were relaxed and
cordial.

“Thailand was like the Carib-
bean, we stayed near the beach and
the food was great,” Fidler said.

The two also went to Macao, via
jetboat, an island next to Hong
Kong that was a Portuguese
colony. Fidler said the entire
economy is based on gambling and
is a seedier version ofLas Vegas.

But Beijing was one ofthe more
interesting destinations for the
two. Besides the celebration of
Communism, Fidler said Beijing
also has the best nightlife. They
went to two basketball areI~a—Sized
discos, with people dancing in
cages and pumping music.

“It was like Studio 54,” Fidler
said. “China is more Western than
you think. It’s less Communist and
socialist than just authoritative.”

Fidler said, if he had to do it all
over again, he’d stay for the whole
year. He wants to get an internship
in Hong Kong this year and possi-
bly live there for a few years‘ after
graduation.

Jeans said Fidler and Fuller’S ex-
perience is critical in getting a real
education. He said learning about
places and actually seeing them go
hand in hand. Being there breathes
life into the material you’ve studied.

“Travels like this are a real eye-
opener,” Jeans said. “It’s critical
for growth of personality. It’s a
great gift to get an intimate ac-
quaintance with another society
while gaining a new perspective on
your own society.”

photo by Emily Bes/Photo Editr

WAITING FOR GODOT OR_wiIAT?: Freshmen rushees looking at the pretty ceiling during one of

Rush’s slower moments.

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

Speakin’ easy

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

Cilia King-tum iﬂlii
January 10, 2000

Selling out, or not?

Basketball’s second chances

Century of Cynicism

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

PAGE 8

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
WRESTLING MANIA: W&L wrestling

won 2-3 at Quadrangular.

 

 

PAGE 2

(I111: itling-tum lﬂhi

NEWS

JANUARY 10, 2000

‘Z photo by hmily ﬂames/Photo l:.dl(0l'
- REGISTRATION Woes: Sophomore Todd

 Gosselink and frosh Connor Kirsch try and fix
}their schedules in add/drop week.

E-mail General Notes to 

 

Student managers sought

“JAVA at the GHQ”, a new campus coffee house, is
seeking two student managers to help plan and run the
coffeehouse weekly on Wednesday evenings, beginning
Jan. 19th. Work hours will be approximately 8:30 p.m. to
1:30 a.m each Wednesday evening. Duties include: over-
all responsibility for beverage operation, cash handling,
clean up and securing the GHQ at the conclusion of events.
There is also the opportunity to assist in planning enter-
tainment, menu, special events and promotions to meet
student interests. Stipend is $50.00 per evening for each
manager. Inquiries should be directed to Mr. Lynn at the
GHQ (x8578, jlynn@wlu.edu) no later than Jan. 12.

University-Shenandoah Symphony

takes ﬂight

The legend of the Zhar-Ptitsa, the magical bird with
wings of gold, will be told in music when the Washington
and Lee University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra
presents a concert on Saturday, Jan. 15 in the Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts at 8 p.m. The concert is free
and open to the public.

Under the direction of W&L Associate Professor of
Music Barry Kohnan, the USSO will perform Stravinsky's
Ballet, The Firebird, one of the most famous compositions
of the 20th century. The music follows the Russian tale of
Prince Ivan who goes hunting and encounters a fabulous
bird with plumage of ﬁre, plucking golden fruit from a

£¢«§¢&ss(4_6

Come and write for

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

Join in the fun, laughter, and behind-the-scenes
excitement of W&L’s oldest and‘ most prestigious
newspaper

email us at phi@wlu.edu or call 4060 and leave a message

  
 

 
 

Whmaq Atouaw

Mt Adams

Laura LeLqhBudu9e/22
Daha Boom
VVl12mdd>9tB<9ze%
St240i\anLaBrLqqs
Laura Bruno
’~DaLqeBn4amb
Gui Cortzz
Stuart Crtqior
Bwrhe ’Dwtcaw

  

Mara» at 7
tiwﬁetta
 - ®hdqi Class

appa Data

96

law Eaqiut
Ea-czotowt 1-“arm:/i
Alia Giddtnqs
2960» Graham
Brodie G’Y€q®f|,f
Alibsow Gtwwaid
Caitteruw -l-iemscw
Mist/zih Law
414 Luitxlcww
Awe Lotz
lifts ¢>s€€'u1a

4—

 

Ci\rLstuai>r‘u1qt\om
A»waEand
<iiCvbiQw7es
VV\,eqawELqdow
Lawra E96606
LeattQo6erb
Eizatatt Selma»
Ccvblml Swath
Clam Swath

Liza Tucher

  

silver tree. In exchange for her freedom, she gives Ivan a
magic feather which will protect him.

Originally composed as a ballet, The Firebird now
stands alone as a concert piece. The Firebird is played by
orchestras throughout the world and has had a profound
inﬂuence on performers, composers and audiences.

The concert will also include a performance of
Beethoven's great C minor Piano Concerto by Shuko
Watanabe, adjunct professor of music at W&L and artis-
tic advisor for Eurydice, a community chamber Orchestra
in Roanoke. Hayley Hall, a senior music major, will per-
form Concertino for Clarinet and Strings based on violin
sonatas written by the Italian Baroque composer, Giuseppe
Tartini and arranged for clarinet and string orchestra by
British composer, Gordon Jacob.

The USSO is comprised of talented University students,
local residents and area professional musicians. Local ama-
teur musicians are encouraged to join. For more informa-
tion, call (540) 463-8856.

Film Society presents Central Station

The next presentation from the Washington and Lee
Film Society will be Central Station (Brazil, 1998), directed
by Walter Salles.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
Jan. 14 and 15, in the Troubadour Cinema, at the comer of
Main and Henry Streets. As always, there is no charge for
admission, but contributions are welcome. This ﬁlm is in
Portuguese, with English subtitles.

Central Station, an extraordinarily beautiful and pow-
erful ﬁlm, tells the story of a cynical woman in late middle-
age who ﬁnds herself reluctantly undertaking a journey
with a small boy who has just lost his mother. The ﬁlm
takes us from the harshness of Rio to the stark landscapes
of the inland Sertao.

The ﬁlm has won awards throughout the world, includ-
ing the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film, the
best ﬁlm award at the Berlin Film Festival, and two Oscar
nominations-Best Foreign Film and Best Actress for
Fernanda Montenegro, Brazil's most respected actress.

Tanya Melich to visit W&L

Tanya Melich, a political management and public policy
consultant with broad experience in elections and poli-
tics, women's issues and the media, will visit Washington
and Lee University during the week of Jan. 17. Melich's
visit is sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fel-
low program.

Melich will deliver her keynote public lecture on Thurs-
day, Jan. 20 at 7 p.m. in_ Leybum Library's Northen Audi-
torium. The lecture is titled, “Maintaining Our Balance:
19th Century Civics in a 21st Century World.” She will
also talk to a joint meeting of the Young Republicans and
Young Democrats on Tuesday, Jan. 18 at 7 p.m. (location
to be announced). On Wednesday, Jan. 19 she will talk in
the commerce school's women@work series.

Melich has operated her own consulting business, P0-
litical Issues Management, since 1983. Prior to that she

was a public policy analyst for CBS corporate manage-
ment and director of civic affairs for the CBS Corporate
Affairs Department. She has also served as national elec-
tion research director for ABC News, a newspaper reporter
for The Salt Lake Tribune and on the the Foreign Policy
Institute’s editorial staff.

Melich, whose op-ed pieces have appeared in The New
York Times, The Washington Post and USA Today among
other publications, earned her master's degree in public
law and government from Columbia University and gradu-
ated cum laude with general and departmental honors in
political science from the University of Colorado, where
she was elected into Phi Beta Kappa.

The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows program brings
leaders in their ﬁelds to the campuses of small liberal arts
colleges for a week of classes, informal discussions with
students and faculty and career counseling. The Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowship Foundation has developed
and conducted programs in higher education since 1945
and more than 200 colleges have participated in the Visit-
ing Fellows program since 1973.

W&L receives grant from VFH

~ Washington and Lee University, in cooperation with
the Rockbridge Area Conservation Council, has received
a grant from the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities
and Public Policy. The grant will support a lecture series
and community forum on the topic of "Growth and Con-
servation: Lessons from the Humanities."

"Our objective is to help the local community better
understand the challenges of reconciling growth and de-
velopment with preservation of the local environment,"
said Ken Ruscio, associate professor of politics at W&L
and chair of the committee overseeing the school's envi-
ronmental studies program. "Lexington, Buena Vista and
Rockbridge County are located in an area of incredible
natural beauty. Like many small communities, we face the
challenge of promoting economic growth while maintain-
ing the natural features which are so much a part of the
character of the community."

The program will bring in four of the leading environ-
mental humanities scholars in the country to lecture on
general issues based on their research that would apply
to the local region. The lecturers include Wiliam Cronon,
professor of history, geography and environmental stud-
ies at the University of Wisconsin; Phil Terrie, professor
of English and chair of the American Culture Studies De-
partment at Bowling Green State University; Brian Norton,
professor of public policy at the Georgia Institute of Tech-
nology; and Randall Arendt, _vice president of the The
Natural Lands~Trust in Pennsylvania.

Following the lecture series, a community forum will be
convened with citizens and local ofﬁcials. The general
approach to the forum will be to have a moderated open
discussion on ways to incorporate some of the planning
concepts into local processes. The lectures will be held in
the fall of 2000 with the community forum scheduled for
January 2001.» ‘ ‘

Kelli Austin
Diane Averyt
Alyson Brice
Lauren Burrow
Ginna Duncan
Lindsey Duran
Olivia Eustis
Avery Flinn Gholston
Kathryn Glenn
Frances Goldsmith
Beth Gray

Tina Harbilas
Blair Huffman
Kristen Huntley
Jennifer Irvine

 

 

Congratulations to theKappa Alpha Theta
Pledge Class of 2000

Sarah Janowite
Rebecca Johns
Blake Jones
Stacey Kimmel
Katherine Kolle
Jane Ledlie
Kristen Mandaglio
Michelle Moore
Kate Muscalino
Nancy Rhinehart
Jenny Thomas
Jamie Watkins
Brandi Jane Wedgeworth
Cary Wellford
Jenny Wright

=&, .-..,

 

JANUARY 10, 2000

OP

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm 

IN ION

PAGE 3

Rush needs to get

rid of the

David Foley used to say on a little
known Canadian sketch comedy
show, “Evil, just pure evil.” Washing-
ton and Lee has its own version of
pure evil: sorority rush. With all the
clapping, music, screaming, and hell
the women at this school went
through in the last week it’s amazing
they are still alive.

There is nothing as painful as see-
ing my upperclass girl friends dragging
themselves to

politics

there would be a better way to do
things, but since they have been
doing it this way for a while I guess
we will give it the beneﬁt of the
doubt.

I think the thing I really hate is
all of the stupid last minute politics,
lies, arm twisting etc etc. etc. yada,
yada, yada. It’s like being stabbed in
the back -— again.

'I'hat’s how they get you. Kids
saying one thing,

class, hoarse
from singing the
same silly songs
over and over
and being
friendly and going through the whole

rigarnarole of women’s Rush. So take a

break girls, kick back, relax, drink a beer

and smile and mean it for the first time

in a week. You’ve sung and clapped

yourselves out, and need to get back in

the swing of things. A brief aside: to

those great girls who decided to wake

up the guys on my hall Sunday mom-

in g, your actions were duly noted and

will receive retribution in full. Next

weekend. It’s called tear night girls,

and it’s a lot more fun and destruc-

tive than your little songs at 8:30 in

the morning.

Which brings me to my next topic,
men’s Rush. It is also a miserable
time, but for a different reason. Af-
ter I2-plus weeks ofgetting to know
people and having to entertain and
doing that whole fratastic Rush
thing, the guys at this school are
tired of it.

The difference between men’s and
women’s Rush is sort of a pick-your-
poison, die by the sword or die by Chi-
nese water torture. The girls get it hard
and fast, slammed for one straight week,
wearing them all out. Us guys prefer it
slow and easy over a twelve-week pe-
riod. Like a tantric position or some-
thing.

Either way the whole Rush process
is really not that pleasant; you’d think

.3“ or 0 &ldﬂ7d3§1
 Nlidiad Crittenden 01

going to another
house blah, blah,
blah. The annoy-
ances of bid ball,
where decisions
are made on the capricious whims
of frat guys —— there’s a reliable
group of decision makers. But what-
ever, pretty soon pledgeship will
begin for both men and women.
Girls, you have nothing to worry
about.

For the next eight weeks you will
be “hazed” repeatedly ‘with brown-
ies, giﬂs, free dinners, forced party-
ing and stuff like that. It’s painful re-
ally (note: extreme sarcasm). The tor-
ture, the pain, suffering. For guys,
look on the bright side, you have eight
“fun” weeks ahead of you learning
about ﬁatemal ideals, brotherhood,
service, and morality, oh yeah, and
some blood, sweat and tears along the
way. Craig Yi! ! ! !! All of this explains
why winter term is the least favorite
term, as shown in a randomly selected
poll of one Ring-tum Phi editor.

Rush makes the parties closed.
Every fraternity is uppity and fratty.
Everything moves to off-campus
houses. Those freshmen guys just
aren’t smiling as much as they used
to. And to make things even worse,
it’s cold. So good luck with this, I
hope you have a great semester, but
Iihave’ decided to hibernate this
year in a small cave somewhere.
Wake me up when spring term gets
here.

///////////// / / //

“I

?7'f3<3‘?<>"<Z 

W&L greek system welcomes all students

“Sellout” was the first term I en-
countered when I told my friends from
home that I was rushing. Actually, I
remember three days before coming
back to Lexington I whined, “UGH, I
can’t believe I’m rushing in a few days,”
to which I was answered, “No rush!
You’re on vacation! You can relax.”

I had previously thought the
phrase, “You don’t understand” had
been reserved for parents. ButI found
myself saying it more than I would
have liked, to any New Yorker who
deemed the entire sorority/fratemity
scene as a sick manifestation of con-

“Frat guy” and “sorority chick”
were two phrases accompanied by
negative connotations back home.
Once anyone sighted W&L on the top

10 drinking schools in the nation list,
he instantly dismissed it as a meathead

school, a congregation of lushes who '

cared more about the quality of a can
of Natty Light or the color of their lip
gloss than any-
thing else.

group.
lt’s notjust W&L, but any word in
the English language has a corre-
sponding connotation. Although the
political correction movement has at-
tempted all
said subtexts,

The entire
Greek system at
W&L simply em-

 Noithernasfxposurve
V’ Kris Pollina ’03

Washington
and Lee dis-
pels stereo-

bodies the con-

cept of dispelling stereotypes. It seems
everything at this institution is accom-
panied by one, whether it is what ﬁ'ater-
nity/sorority you join, whether you join

. one at all, what your major is, or where

you’re from. However, the marvel of
these typecasts is that each one is
quickly dismissed with an examination
of the individuals composing each

types more
aggressively by simply welcoming
members of every walk of life into each
of their sub-institutions. At the risk of
sounding like Mr. Rogers, I don’t claim
to be a part of one, big, happy family
with no cliques. Rather, my contention
is that Washington and Lee will wholly
support such divisions in the student
body but with the assurance that it is

not a discriminating or biased group.

“Frat guy” is no longer synony-
mous with meathead, (not all the time
anyway), nor is a “sorority chick” a
Barbie clone who can’t chew gum and
walk at the same time. Though W&L
may acknowledge these stereotypes,
they in no way fulfill them. Even bet-
ter, they exercise the ability to have
such easily labeled groups, and work
against these labels successfully.

My non-W&L acquaintances will
never be able to understand the im-
portance of the Greek system, and will
forever continue to berate its conse-
quence and downplay its positive im-
plications while I continue to protest
that they “don’t understand.” Only a
W&L student can actually realize the
inaccuracy of such illusions and the
truth behind each group.

1,001 things that irritate me: Prissy dressers

  uote of the week:

1/

Let’s go through the freshmen
dorms and see all the girls

crying.

— Senior guy on
women’s bid day

)1

(J11: ﬂing-mm lﬂlii

Polly Doig

Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Michael Crittenden
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Lisa Lin

Dave Hanson

Neal Willetts

Executive Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor -
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editors

Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

The other day while strolling merrily along the Hill, the
most frightening thing happened. I looked up from curs-
ing my long walk to class (I live in that annoyingly conve-
nient location where I am too close to campus to ever be
allowed near it in a car and too far away
to not carry an umbrella with me when
I leave the house) to see a fellow fe-
male peer, and I was suddenly plunged
into a state of paranoia. I must have
forgotten it was Monday and I had forgotten about chapter
and I hadn’t dressed appropriately.

Of course it was not Monday, but I see you wondering
why I thought as much. Well, people. It was because this
lovely student was dressed as if she was on her way to a
cocktail party-— an ensemble I would only wear to the Hill
if I were about to give an impressive presentation on stock
analysis or. . . attend chapter. But this fair lady felt that
simply waking up this morning was reason enough to cel-
ebrate life and wear heels.

Now I know that we are a school of heavy drinkers but
that does not mean that we must dress as if we are attending
a 24-7 tailgate. I understand that dressing on the fancier side
of college-prep can be desirable at times, perhaps to perk up
your day, make you feel better about yourself, or maybe you
had spare time that morning. Yet the way some girls are dress-
ing can certainly not be accomplished in mere spare time
without the aid of a ﬂeet of maids and make-up artists. There
has to be a logical explanation as to why they are appearing
everyday (Monday or not) dressed like a Neirnan’s display.
Following several lines of reasoning I have come to some
conclusions and can offer advice bmed on my findings.

First, girls may dress this way for future practice in the
sense that they one day hope to be CEO of a Fortune 500

 Ungrateful Ninja
‘I ‘ Kay Harding ’01

_ company or a New York super mom who drives a Mercedes
pod SUV and leads their children around on leashes. This
explanation simple leaves me befuddled though because I
for one am putting off my entrance into the real world for
as long as possible. Why do you wear
out your $200 Kate Spade carrying
pens and calculators when you are
going to have it surgically attached

to your hip once you start paying for
things yourself. . . maybe.

Notice that I say ‘adult’ women. Since when are col-
lege-aged girls required to dress like they are attending
tea at the Ritz after their 3 o’clock class? Perhaps if you are

a New England socialite you are appropriately dressed.
But, let me be the one to mordantly inform you that the
Hamptons are rarely the site for fall fashion shows. The
images photographed in Town & Country are not exactly
cutting edge fashion trends. If you traded your Southern
Living for Marie Claire or Glamour you’d soon realize that

denim and downsizing is IN, people! Quick quiz . . have you

heard of Celine, Chaiken&Capone, Theory, or Katyone

Adeli? Are you aware that your St. John suit and pearl studs

are quickly becoming antiques making way for orange,

Osbeck pashirnas and pony-hair hair wraps and leather cuffs?
And all of this coming from someone whose uniform con-
sists of bootcut jeans and tee-shirts. So as adult and trendy
as you may think you are. . . you are not. That’s irritating.

Perhaps these gals are deliberately trying to dress as
something they are not in order to impress the male popu-
lation and expedite the search for a husband. Uh. . . girls,
you have failed because you could tell them it’s Guess or

Gucci and guys wouldn’t know the difference. These are

boys that roll out of bed, put on a tee-shirt, ﬂip-ﬂops and

khakis and hopefully engage in some minimal form of per-
sonal hygiene, and you’re hoping that they will take care in
noticing and applauding your decision to wear the DKNY
emblazoned sweater over the Club Monaco tank. Unless
you can ﬁgure out a way to wear cars, gadgets, sports
events, alcohol or if you succeed in making it legal to walk
around in only a thong, then W&L men couldn’t care less.
Sadly, your efforts are Iost- on the majority of the male stu-
dent population who (no offense guys) strike me as a bunch
of down-to-earth, casual, fun-loving frat boys with limited
ensemble choices and uncreative fashion senses.

And, from a more financial point of view, why waste the
time and money? Along with not impressing the bulk of
your peers, your money could be more charitably put to

use rather than spending it on Prada bags and JP Todd —

loafers; especially, when they are certain to be unappreci-
ated at best and ruined at worst by the fashionably conser-
vative Zollman family and the unaware remainder of the
guys. People, there is plenty of time to be trophy wives

later in life, why start now? More casual, comfortable cloth-
ing choices are more likely to be esteemed and envied (if
that appears to be the desired end) by the Generals as well
as the always-in-Vogue inhabitants of metro-Lex.

Now, I am not going to send you off with your tails
between you legs without offering some comforting last
words. I do admire the way you dress. I love clothes just as
much as the next girl (if not more so). However, you are
making those of us who choose partying over primping
feel as if we are starting a lap behind. We girls need to stick
together and remain on even keel. Can’t we all just dress on
the same level? And if not, and I have offended you, then
can you at least wear your Hypes when you come to beat
me up rather than those heavy, Robert Clergeries?

TALKbaCk...\Vhy did you come back from break?

‘‘I got sick of my parents.”
-Sarah Schandler ’02

“I missed Latitia Pate Evans and
her fine London Broil too much.”

after rush.”
-Tom Grove ’02

“I wanted to see the drunk girls

-Tom Meleson ’03

“I was threatened by little
green elves.”
-Roshni Nirody ’00

PAGE 4

W&

@112 itling-tum iﬂhi

IFE

 

JANUARY 10, 2000

Speaking out. . . student band is speaking easy

Seniors Matt Lamotte, Anthony Allen, and junior Matt
Herman ﬁnd their stride in the midst of W&L’s frat scene

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

“I can’t describe our sound. I haven’t heard of any
other bands that sound like we do,” saidjunior Matt Hennan,
about his band speakeasy.

Speakeasy may be unique in sound, but it’s also unique
in itself. Comprised of seniors Matt Lamotte on lead guitar
and vocals, and Anthony Allen on drums, and Hennan, on
bass and backup vocals, speakeasy is one of only a handful
of student bands on campus. The three formed the band
last year after the three jammed
together a few times and decided
W&L needed a band.

“If there had to be a W&L
band, we ﬁgured it might as well
be us,” Lamotte said. “[When we
started playing together], it
turned out that our performing
and song writing sensibilities
were similar. The essence of our
music seemed to lie in the same
vein.”

In Jan. 1999, speakeasy played
their first venue at a private party
at Hollister Hovey’s house.
Herman said that this party was
memorable not only because that
was their first gig, but for the
night’s chaos.

“We got to the house early to
set up the equipment in the base-

However, things took a more chaotic turn later into the
evening.

“Out of nowhere, there were police cars and a ﬁre en-
gine outside of the house,” Herman said. “Hollister
ﬂipped, because she thought she was going to be ar-
rested for a noise violation or for having too many people
in the house.”

But, as Hovey and the hand later found out, the police
and ﬁre engine had nothing to do with the party. There
was a gas leak across the street.

The night went off without any more glitches, and the

    

ment, where we were supposed
to play. But the night before, it

had rained hard, and the base— Conslgnment
ment flooded,” Herman said. Dr°P'°ff
“Everyone had mops and shov- January 13
els, trying to get the water out. 5-7 pm

We were really concerned about
the electrical equipment being on
the wet ﬂoor, so we decided to

Fairfax Lounge
Refreshments

 

move the stuff upstairs into this
little living room. It rocked, but
we were so loud that stuff started
falling off the bookshelves.”

Formalocasualocareer SeparatesoJewelryoHandbags
All clothing should be clean and on hangers.

Bla_irAllen
Janet Carter
Teresa Eterno
Claire Green
Adrianna Hoo/e
Lee Kirren
Kim Krieden
Mary Carol Mazza
Hillary Montgomery

Pi Beta P/9 i

Congratulates tlie Pl ea’ge Class
Qf2000

Bec/ey Mosig
Emily Pace
jenny Parle
Katherine Pe/eman
Allison S/ian/2
Emily S/iearer
Latoya S/ierron
ll/larri Wright

oto by Emily Bames/Photo Editor I
Matt Herman (center) belts out a tune during a rehearsal with fellow
speakeasy bandmates Matt Lamotte (right) and Anthonv Allen (left).

3 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-1501

 

“We're more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - ll:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

band went on to play other W&L venues. Their last per-
formance was at Sigma Nu, for the fratemity’s homecom-
ing events in October. The band drew a crowd of 50-75
people, not all of whom were brothers of Sigma Nu or
their dates. Speakeasy played a two 45-minute sets in-
cluding both covers and originals. Since their ﬁrst gig at
Hovey’s house, speakeasy has definitely gained a more
mature performing style.

Lamotte’s vocals were at times drowned out by in-
tense walls of sound created by the intricate melodies
and harmonies of his own guitar and also Herman’s bass
playing. However, the overall performance was well—re—
ceived; the crowd went absolutely wild when the band
finished the night with a raucous cover of Brittany Spears’
“Hit me baby (one more time).”

Coming up for speakeasy is a gig at Chi Psi’s Tear
Night activities this coming Saturday.

While they would not define themselves as purely a
cover band, speakeasy covers a wide variety of songs.

Band favorites are “Summer in the City” and “Sultans of

Swing,” and they are currently working on a cover of “Lon-
don Calling,” originally done by the Clash. Yet the band
spends the majority of their time working on original music.

“Covers are fun, but there are things beside frat rock I’d
like to devote myself to,” Lamotte said. “What I strive for as
a songwriter is pseudo-sophisticated rock with a lot of em-
phasis on rhythmic and harmonic dynamics.”

The band members get together three times a week to
work on original song lyrics and music, and to practice both
their originals and covers. It was at a song writing session in
the beginning of the band that they decided on the name
speakeasy. Herman explained that former band member se-
nior Greg Nouza thought of the name speakeasy, which beat
out the other contender, Planet Roz.

While the band wouldn’t speculate on their future to-
gether, Lamotte did say that the band is continually making
progress toward better things.

“Things keep getting better,” Lamotte said. “Our sound
keeps changing. And, well sometimes we get it and some-

times we stop and take a smoke break.”

   events...

 
   

Monday, Jan. 10 ,
’7:3_0fp.m. Lecture. “Russia En: Route to Democracy,”
9 Sergei N. Khrushchev, sori of the late Soviet
leader Nikita Khrushchev. Reception to follow.

Tuesday, Jan. 11 I
_ 4:30 p.m. Add/Drop ends.
7:00 p.m. Basketball (W).~W&L vs. Emory and
5 Henry. Warner Center.

Wednesday, Jan. 12 ,
7:00  Basketball (M). W&L vs. Lynchburg
College. Warner Center. if

I , 10:00 p.m. Speakeasy, Chi Psi.

7:00 p.m. Inaugural Professorship Lecture. “House
Republicans: Learning to Govern?” William
F. Connelly, John Boardrnan Professor. Northen
' Auditorium. 0

Friday, Jan. 14
4 :00 p.m. Swimming (M&W). W&L vs. Buffalo
State College. Twombly Pool.
A 7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Central Station” (Brazil,
1998),directed by Walter Salles. Troubadour.

Saturday, Jan. 15 9 ‘ “

2:00 p.m. Basketball W&L VS. Guilford Col
lege. Warner Center.

7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Central Station” (Brazil).
Troubadour. .

8:00 p.m. Orchestra Concert University Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra with guest artist Shuko
Watanabe, piano. Keller Theatre, Lenfest.

10:00 p.m. Snackbar Jones, Kappa Sig.

* 10:00 p.m. Leggs, SPE ’
10:00 p.m. DJ party, Phi Psi.

10:00 p.m. Zoso, Phi Delt. .
10:00 p.m. The Convertibles, SAE

 

Joining a state delegation is the
ONLY Way to SEE the 2000
Republican Mock Convention

Alaska, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, District
of Columbia, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada,
New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North
Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin,
and Wyoming
All have spaces left on their delegations

This is your last chance to join a
delegation.

Monday, January 10 through
Friday, January 14
11:00 AM to 2:00 PM
In front of the Co-op
$20 — check, cash, or charge it home

 

  
 

C

N ongratulationsl

:  M  - '

   
  

   

Pledge Class

”‘\.

 

 

Noelle Baer Laurel Bowron Ashley Brim Emily Brockway Lisette Casagrande Erin Carter
Colleen Bryan Austin Calhoun Natalie Cuicchi Betsey Ely Jennifer Fallon Juliann Garrett
Allison Glover Lindsey Harrington Liz Heatwole Sallie Higgins Kat Hill Anne Bailey Lynn

Jen Nelson Emery Ordemann Robin Okin Anne Ritchey Rachel Ross Kelly Schlichter

Reanna Stahl Sarah Sturtz Kelly Sugarman Emma Thomas Liz Townsend Courtney Warner

Carol Wang Anne Whitham

?€’  00 000 2000

gym C  ﬂimée (S200/M %m0e0 L9Qa000b00
  893000 (@000/00¢ L9/6‘a&%07zM/00 8@ﬂwm
Wemm  A   Lgoga/0207,?‘ Q&,(ﬂz(0Ic/0
C/gﬂ ggzm gggm @040 L975/EMA (37760/;(mm 7%/‘Z000
jzm  e%0r0<a Lf@0/20/4002 Q???/@ ¢(}000‘0m/
99¢/56 £4-Mm 90040 $090040; @004 £600 @000?

@% Lgzmmmm %’01106ﬁ70{v2/ .@“(?a’e77

 

 

PAGE 6

SP6 RT s

JANUARY 10, 2000

Men’s basketball grabs OT win

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals’ Men’s Basket-
ball team countered a four game losing streak to start
the season by winning four out of their next ﬁve games,
the latest coming in a thrilling 75-74 overtime victory
Sunday vs. Greensboro.

The Generals led 51-43 with 10 minutes to go, but
Greensboro would make a run to tie the game at 66 with
ﬁve seconds to go.

However, the Pride would commit a brainless foul
and send W&L’s best free-throw shooter, Brian
Ricketts, to the line to shoot two. Ricketts missed them
both, and the game went into overtime.

Chad Braley nailed a quick three in the extra frame to
give the Generals a 69-66 lead, but Greensboro would
again respond to tie the game at 69.

The Pride would not see another lead aﬁer that how-
ever, as W&L went on a late run and held on for the
one point victory.

“Lafave was good in the huddle. He helped us stay
concentrated as we went into OT. We felt that we
needed to win this game especially after losing to
Roanoke,” said junior Will Ballard.

“We had to play better post defense in overtime and
keep the ball out of their hands,” said Ballard.

Senior Scott Hudson led W&L tallying 19 points
and 12 boards. Junior Will Ballard added a season-high
17 points and senior point guard Walt Plyler had a sea-
son-high seven assists.

The Generals are hoping to gain plenty of conﬁ-
dence going into later ODAC match-ups from the non-
conference win.‘

The win was a nice rebound from a horrific perfor-
mance vs. an excellent Roanoke squad the day before,

They’ll be

back for more
Women’s Basketball drops

close one to Roanoke, 61-59

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

While most students took it easy over the last month,
Washington and Lee’s Women’s basketball team kept
busy continuing their successful season. The Generals
earned tow important ODAC victories over Virginia
Wesleyan and Hollins before dropping a heartbreaker
to Roanoke on Saturday.

On Jan. 2 the Generals took on the Blue Marlins of
Virginia Wesleyan and used an 18-4 run to close the
ﬁrst half en route to a 77-59 win.

In their first game back aﬁer the winter break, W&L
continued their solid inside-outside play, as sopho-
mores Megan Babst and Jessica Mentz both had double-
doubles. Babst scored 16 points and tallied 17 rebounds
while Mentz scored 24 points and 15 rebounds.

The Generals were able to put the game away at the
free throw line, going 22-25 (88%) from the charity stipe.

On Jan. 6 the team traveled to Hollins College and
came back with a dominant 85-40 victory to improve
their record to an impressive 6-2 overall and 4-l in the
conference.

Senior guard Ansley Miller paced the Generals with
a game high 20 point, going 6-7 from the three-point
line.

W&L again was great from the line, shooting 92% as
a team while coming only to shy of the school record
for points in a game.

Saturday the Generals returned to the Warner Cen-
ter for a tough game with arch rival Roanoke. W&L led

W&L 2-3 at home

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wrestling team competed in
their ﬁrst home contest at the W&L Quadrangular on Sat-
urday. The Generals came out on top in two of their three
matches, laying waste to Gettysburg 23-18 and Pensacola
Christian 23-21 . W&L dropped the contest against
Davidson 24-18 once the match had come down to the
lightweights.

Three wrestlers went 3-0 on the day for the Generals.
Senior 125 pounder Chad Casto won his Gettysburg match
on a technical fall, a match that was called aﬂer a ﬁﬁeen
point lead. Casto pinned his PC opponent and won his
Davidson match with a 7-2 decision.

Sophomore Ivan Zdanov pinned his Gettysburg oppo-
nent in 38 seconds and won the major decision over PC 9-
0. Zdanov pinned his oppononet from Davidson in 2:37.

Junior heavyweight John Sensing won his decision over
Gettysburg 3-0 and won over PC 8-1. Sensing won his
Davidson match on a forfeit.

The Generals experienced several shiﬂs in their lineup
both before and during the quadrangular meet. “Against
Davidson we matched up differently so we had several wres-
tlers switch classes. It was a very close match,” said Zdanov.

With the absence of freshman standout Levi McVey, jun-
ior Greg Valentine ﬁlled in at the 174 pound spot. Valeritine’s
brother sustained an ACL injury in an earlier practice and
freshman Erickson Davis took over the 184 pound spot. The
Generals are still coping with the absence of senior Alex
McManirnen due to an elbow injury.

The Generals next travel to the Swartlimore invitational
on Saturday.

in which the Generals were thrashed 90-59.

Roanoke senior point guard Paris Butler put on a
shooting clinic for the Generals drilling six three-point-
ers, tying a Roanoke record.

“Roanoke was a better team than we were that night.
Their good play combined with the fact that it wasn’t
our best night. Butler had a great game,” said freshman
Will Cotter.

W&L was led by sophomore Bob Bustamante with
16 points and freshman Scott Hetterman, who picked
up 10 points to go along with seven rebounds.

Over Christmas break, the Generals went on a nice
three-gamewinning streak beating Emory and Henry
67-53, Virginia Wesleyan 60-52, and Guilford 73-67.

“We gained lots of conﬁdence with that ﬁrst win
and that carried over to the other games,” said Cotter.

Hetterman led the Generals with 13 points in the
Emory and Henry victory, while Ricketts and Hudson
both posted double-doubles in the win vs. Virginia
Wesleyan. Bustamante highlighted the Guilford victory
with a career-high 20 points.

The Generals recent success has given them a re-
spectable 4-5 record, 3-3 in the ODAC. “Wejust con-
tinue to work hard and we really believe in our system,”
said Plyler. “It’s been nice to ﬁnally play at home, we’ve
been able to take care of business here.”

Although the Generals have shown signs of prom-
ise, they have been blown out by the top two teams in
the league, Hampden-Sydney and Roanoke. in order to
beat them, “We have to play the perfect game,” contin-
ued Plyler.

“We need to control the tempo and keep them in the
50s or 60s in order to have a chance. Otherwise, they

just have too much talent,” he said.

Washington and Lee continues its homestand
Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. vs. Lynchburg.

Photo by Emil Bames/Photo Editor
AiMiNc HIGH: Sophomore Carter Thomas gets
up for the jumper against Roanoke, but it was
not enough to overcome the tight 61-59 loss.

early, playing a very solid ﬁrst half, but the Maroon
came out hot after halftime and used a 40 point effort in
the second halfto gain a hard earned 61 -59 come from
behind victory.

The Generals were lead by Miller’s 16 points, who
became only the second woman in school history to
break the 1000 point mark with her frist basket.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

WinE OPEN FOR THE THREE: Roanoke passes the ball in the face of Tousaint Crawford’s defense.

With 15 regular season games left on the Generals’
plate and Miller’s trend of impressive performances,
the record looks well within her reach.

“l’mjust relieved that [the 1000th point] was over so
we could get to just playing the game as a team. The
record was not something that 1 had been thinking about
until the team pointed it out to me earlier in the week. I
wanted to playjust as part ofthe team,” said Miller.

“l don’t feel that it’s that important. it is a great
acheivement but I’m more excited that we have such a
great team and a good chance to win the ODAC tourna-
ment,” said Miller. ‘

Babst recorded her sixth double-double of the sea-
son with l2 points and 16 boards, while Morton and
Mentz added 16 and 12 points, respectively.

Such efforts were not enough to overcome the Gen-
erals’ 27 turnovers though, and Roanoke escaped with
the victory.

The Generals faced some strong nerves against a
Roanoke team that they have never beaten.

“We didn’t play up to the best of our ability against
Roanoke. We have a mental block against Roanoke be-
cause of our history against them. We were intimidated
somewhat and it showed in the turnovers and our in-
ability to box out against them,” said Miller.

W&L will face the Maroons again during the regular
season and Miller and the Generals remain conﬁdent.

“We are looking forward to playing Roanoke at their
place. We are deﬁnetely competitive with them and we
showed that we are capable of scoring the win off of
them. We will also see them again in the ODAC touma-
ment. We can beat them two more times,” said Miller.

Despite the tough loss to Roanoke, the Generals’
season has been very successful and only looks to
improve.

This season a win in the ODAC tournament will en-
sure a bid to the NCAA tournament. W&L currently
holds a 6-3 overall record and are in good shape in the
ODAC with a 4-2 record.

The next step for the Generals in their exciting sea-
son is a home contest against Emory and Henry on
Tuesday. Tip-offis set for 7:00 p.m.

@ TOYOTA

Still strokin’

Men’s and women’s swimming
sweep Hartwick 42-39, 52-24

Washington and Lee hosted Hartwick College in a modi-
ﬁed dual relay swim meet on Saturday morning. The Gen-
erals upped their record to 6-2 by claiming a close 42-39
victory in the men's competition, while the W&L women's
squad rolled to a 52-24 win to improve their record to an
impressive 7-2.

The W&L women's squad claimed victories in eight of
the nine relays on the day.

W&L opened the meet with a win in the 300-yard but-
terﬂy relay (3 :21 .74), before claiming victories in the 300-
yard backstroke relay (3: 17.27), 300-yard breaststroke re-
lay (3:42.66), 800-yard freestyle relay (8:33 .05), 500-yard
freestyle relay (5:l 1.41), 200-yard medley relay (2:00.43),
200-yard free relay (1 148.47), and the 1200-yard free relay
(13:54.43).

Hartwick (2-4) claimed its lone victory in the 400-yard
medley relay (4:52.00).

On the men's side, the outcome of the meet was not
decided until the Generals claimed a win in the ﬁnal relay.

W&L (6-2) swam its way to wins in the 300-yard butter-
ﬂy relay (2249.48), 300-yard backstroke relay (2:58.0 1 ), 800-
yard freestyle relay (7138.67), 500-yard freestyle relay
(4230.54), 200-yard medley relay (1 :43. 10), 1200-yard free
relay (12:41 .78), and the 400-yard medley relay (3154.07).

Hartwick (4-2) notched wins in the 300-yard breaststroke
relay (3 :42.66), and the 200-yard free relay (1 248.47).

Both W&L squads will return to action when they host
Buffalo State on Friday, January 14 in the Cy Twombly
Pool. This will be the last home meet of the season for the
men’s and women’s squads. Following the contest against
Buffalo State both the Generals will embark on a series of
away meets on their way to the post season. Both the
men’s and women’s teams are 1-1 on the road. The meet
against Buffalo State is scheduled to begin at 2:00 pm.

—Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

 

.0.

credit hietory buy 0

   

thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe those with limited
r leaoe a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details.

l,— ® TOYOTA real values. every day. -1 WWw_ Q 6-ttoyo-133 _COn/1

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/llwy automatic, 34/‘ll City/llwy manual. ‘Base MSRP excluding iransponaiion. lax, tags and regionally required equipment.

TOYOTA-1 O1

   MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY
 INTRODUCING mm mew

  TOYOTA

Stari W $10,000 —— About $12,000 well

THEKE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outeide, great room on the ineide.
Cruiee the highway at 40 Ml’G'...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi—tech
16 valve ADOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicke out 105 horeepower

any time you want it. And beat of all, Echo etarte atjuet $9,995‘.

&-IO

CHO

equipped.

—l‘
W

 

© 1999 VarsityBooks.com Inc.

We realize we don't have to waste your time explaining the virtues ot the Internet. Let's just say that at VarsilyBool<s.com
we've made the most of it. Not only can you save up to 40% on your textbooks, but you'll also receive them in just one to

three business days. All on a Web site that's completely reliable and secure. What more do you need to know?

Savings oft distributors suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. some restrictions apply. See site for details.

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS.

 

 

PAGE 8

Now 80%
recycled jokes!

LAST WORD

JANUARY 10, 2000

A brief look back at the Century of Cynicism,

_ By Kevin McManemin

SERVICES, DYNAMITE, SERVICES!

Look, I’m sorry. I really, really didn’t want to do this. I
know every single newspaper reporter, magazine colum-
nist, Internet blabbennouth, radio jock, television talking
head and telegraph blipper have been saturating all arms
and legs of the media with boring and pointless “a look
back at the century” stories for the last few weeks. Unfor-
tunately this week there’s about as much creativity ﬂow-
ing through my head as there is across a table reading of
“Third Rock from the Sun,” (i .e. NONE AT ALL) so let’s all
jump on the merry millenial bandwagon as we recount:

THE RISE AND FALL AND
FALL AND FALL OF CULTURE IN
THE 20TH CENTURY

POETRY

In the 20th century, poetry changed from a nearly-ten-
able art form into an unmitigated crapulescent disaster.
What’ s that, confused with that made-up word there? Then
you’re not going to have very much luck understanding
the world of modern poetry, my friend, a world where poor
grammar is de riguer, misspelling is au courant and the
only faux pas is writing something that makes the remotest
sense to any non-bullsh**ting English student.

So what happened? Well, at the beginning ofthis cen-
tury, poetry exhibited a feature that modern day scholars
refer to as “rhyming.” Although this has not been heard of
or used in poetry in the last 65 years, the basic theory
behind “rhyming” as the scholars understand it is that
some of the words in a poem would sound a lot like some
of the other words. Pretty wacky, huh? Some poems went
even further and added a “meter,” although this sounds
suspiciously like the metric system so we Americans
wouldn’t understand it anyway. Finally, most poems had
what scholars call “a point.” (For French scholars, a “raison
d’etre,” or for British scholars, “they jolly well weren’t just
a lot of bollocks about red wheelbarrows.”

In the ﬁrst half of the century, T.S. and ee and HD and
other initialed personages came along ‘and rejected all of
these rules of poetry with the giddyjoy of a three-year-old
using the word “poopyhead.” Sure, it was cool at the time,
but not anymore. The problem is that the poetry world
never got over that visceral, childish thrill of breaking the
rules and never realized that perhaps conventions like rhym-
ing and meter had built up over the centuries for a reason.
Just as it isn’t funny when grown adult Adam Sandler
says “poopyhead” in one of his movies, the nine-hun-
dred-and-ninety-millionth free verse breakup poem by some
bitter college co—ed really fails to pack any emotional or
intellectual punch and comes across as cloy, stupid, un-
original, pathetic, and yet at the same time hilarious be-
cause of the poet’s utter inability to recognize the irony
that surrounds their poetry, except for self-referentially
ironic poems which are so cliched in themselves that they

Degenera

criminal of the century
JOHN DILLINGER

Dillinger’s im-
portance as a crimi-
nal goes far be-
yond his relatively
minor crime spree
and the fairly small
body count (by
today’s standards)
he and his gang
racked up along the
way. John
Dillinger’s most im-
portant contribu-
tion to the ﬁeld of
crime was that he
romanticized the
life of a brutal thug
more than anyone
else.

Dillinger was the
first man to become
a major celebrity
solely for being a criminal, and modem-day celeb killers
from Dahmer to the Columbine kids owe a great debt of
gratitude to Dillinger for making murder media-friendly.

phony of the century
LOS ANGE L E S
COUNTY

This was the century of insincerity, the era of
hypocrisy, the age of phoniness. While no one per-
son can take credit for all of this, one magical place
certainly can: the Mecca of insincerity, Los Ange-
les County. In LA the smiles are fake, the breasts
are fake, the personalities are fake, and the only
thing that’s real are the occasional earthquakes and
mudslides.

Los Angeles isn’t even a real city! It gets its water sup-
ply from somewhere else, most of its population is trans-
planted from somewhere else, and it has no history or cul-
ture of its own — it only sucks the culture from everything
it comes in contact with, like the Hoover vacuum cleaner of
the world.

seize being really ironic and become, ironically, pathetic.

Yes, poetry today is a hollow cliche, like one of those
hollow guys in that poem by our old buddy T.S. And, with
the wholesale and fanatical unpopularity of modem po-
etry among mainstream society, it certainly looks as if this
“art form” is going out not with a bang, but with a pathetic
and hackneyed whimper.

VISUAL ART

The story of the visual arts (painting, sculpture, porno,
etc.) is the same as the story of poetry. At the beginning of
this century, most paintings pretty much looked like things,
such as people or objects or landscapes. Then Dali and
Dada and the Deconstructionists swarmed through and
shattered all the conventions, and conventions would never
be wrecked so completely again until ’68 in Chicago. Soon
art was just drawing something like a red circle on a blue
canvas, thereby making it suddenly worth more than ten
Lichtensteins (No, not paintings by Roy Lichtenstein — I
mean the country). At the other end of the spectrum from
such pared-down minimalist art is the so-called Vomit-art
of Jackson Pollack and his ilk, which kind of did look like
something, but not something you’d really want to immor-
talize on canvas.

Genius in modern art is about one percent inspiration
and 99 percent shock value. The only way an artist can
hope to be recognized by the media these days is by an-
gering some group of people with a really offensive piece
of art, and the only group left in our society that takes
anything seriously enough to be offended anymore are
Christians. So today we have scores of poseur Picassos
hurling dung at religious artifacts just as fast as the ani-
mals can sh** it out. If art is to survive into the next cen-
tury, painters are going to have to start spending more
time in the studio and less time at the zoo.

MUSIC

Quite literally every major musical movement to achieve
international prominence in the 20th century (jazz, blues,
rock n’roll, r&b, soul, disco, rap, hip—hop, electronica) was
invented entirely by African Americans, who were then
used and abused by the mostly white-owned record com-
panies. The once vibrant musical styles were all soon wa-
tered down and whitiﬁed for suburban American consump-
tion, all transformed from music into an insidious and vile
corporate commodity known only as “pop.”

Unfortunately, each of those musical styles eventually
did become rather popular, which means that artists in those
genres had the ability to touch and enrich a lot of people’s
lives. If there’s one thing we’ve learned from the poetry
and painting sections, it’s that nothing from the 20th cen-
tury is considered art if more than 0.5 percent of the popu-
lation appreciates it.

So let’s forget about real music and focus instead on
high-brow avant garde artistic music, or “the only 20th
century music white people came up with on their own.”
The biggest ﬁgures in modern white guy-music are Arnold
Schoenberg, LaMonte Young, Terry Riley, John Cage and

bastard of the century
RICHARD NIXON

No one has succeeded in giving a face to the word

“bastard” as well as Tricky Dick Nixon. The most impor— V

tant thing our nation learned from the famous White House
tapes was not that Nixon was a liar, or that he was a crimi-
nal, or even that he was a petty, narrow—minded politician;
the most impor-
tant thing we
leamed was that
he used the f-
word in daily con-
versation more
often than all of
the characters in
Resevoir Dogs
and Scarface
combined. For
not only drag-
ging the most
prestigious ofﬁce
in Am erica
through the
muck, but for do-
ing it with such
base crudity, Ri-
chard Nixon earns the title “bastard of the century.”

 

From low-life record company executives to pony—tailed
Hollywood producers, no spot on earth has more insincer-
ity per capita than Los Angeles. For unmatched excellence
in the ﬁelds of deception and chicanery, we bestow upon
Los Angeles County the coveted honor “phony of the
century.”

 

John Cale. (Not so much Cale, but he was in the Velvet
Underground which was woefully unpopular in their time,
easily below the 0.5 percent mark, making them artists.)
Schoenberg, who makes Sonic Youth sound like Hanson,
is the granddaddy of atolanism. If one of Schoenberg’s
tunes sounds pleasing to your ear, you’re probably play-
ing it wrong. Although you probably won’t hear much 12-
tone-serialism or minimalism on the radio these days, rest
assured that all of these men are really important artists.
How do we know? Because Europeans think so, and no
one walks the ﬁne line between erudition and pretention
better than Eurotrash.

THEATRE

What? Oh, you must mean. . .

MOVIES

At the beginning of this century, ﬁlm was still in its
early experimental phase, and the first motion-picture
shows were grainy, jumpy, out of focus, poorly edited and
sloppily directed —— indeed, it took an entire century to
reach the level of cinematic sophistication of “The Blair
Witch Project.” -

After the initial experimental phase, American cinema
went through what is widely known as “The Lame Phase.”
By law, every movie made from the late 20’s to the early
60’s featured geeky men who talked fast in irritating, na-
sally, high-pitched voices and female characters so sweetly
traditional they made the Virgin Mary look like a ﬁve-dollar
whore. About 80 percent of the movies made during this
period were musicals, a true tribute to the lameness (and/
or surfacing repressed gayness) of the times.

The only watchable movies from this period are foreign
films, and in response to increasing foreign competition at
the box oﬁice, Hollywood turned itself around in the l960’s.
It was in the mid-sixties that a true revolution happened as
directors discovered something that would set the tone of
American cinema for the rest of the century: the naked
female breast. To this day, only the pyrotechnic explosion
is a better determinant of box-office success than the na-
ked female breast. LONG LIVE HOLLYWOOD!

BOOKS

Literacy increased greatly during the century, in theory.
In practice, the most popular books out there are trashy
romance novels, featuring stimulating prose like “Gerard’s
manly bosom heaved as he tore at Gwyneth’s lace bras-
siere, like an untamed beast marauding its prey. They fell
passionately on the bed, warmly ensconced in the thick
satin sheets. Gwyneth gently caressed Gerard’s throbbing
masculine protrusion.”

In general, nobody except Oprah seems to care much
about books anymore. Today’s kids are even too lazy to
read Cliffs Notes, and ifthey have a book report they’ll
just get the book on tape or wait for the movie to come out.
As for serious literature, most critics cite the book of the
century as James Joyce’s “Ulysses,” which reads as if Joyce

tes of the century

pornogiapher of the century
LA R RY F LYN T

Although Heff may have been more important to the
field of pornography, unfortunately, he always had at least
a touch of class about him that keep him from netting this
honor. No, only Larry Flynt brought depravity to new lows
again and again,

and always with
a big smile on his
fat face. He wore
the moniker
“smut peddler”
with pride, and
for doing so de-

 

had just taken a normal book, thrown it in a blender, and
pasted together whatever came out. Most scholars now»
think that Joyce was probably only trying to make a whisky
sour when he accidently knocked a copy of “The
Dubliners” in the blender and came out with “Ulysses”
instead.

RADIO/TELEVISION/ INTERNET

The Internet is to our generation what television was to
our parents, and what radio was to our grandparents. In
other words, it’s an electronic time-wasting device that we
are fascinated with but which our parents will never appre-
ciate, and it’s a medium capable of enriching and educat-
ing the masses with top-quality art, but which is probably
at any given moment being used to transmit something
pretty damned stupid.

Radio took about 50 years to transform from a medium

_which provided entertainment from artists like Orson Welles

to a scarred battleground of morning zoo crews and vulgar
shockjocks. Television didn’t even make it ﬁve or 10 years
beyond its inception before being overwhelmed by a bar-
barous, soul-crushing institution known as “the sitcom.”
The great promise of the Internet, though, is that the choice
of programming is left up to the audience, and not some
sleazy program director. Today we are always only a mouse-
click’s-length away from a world of important information,
like why some uneducated white trash loner doesn’t like
jewish people. But the Internet is about more than giving
racists a place to reach impressionable youth: it’s also the
single most important development in the ﬁeld of pomog-
raphy since the money shot.

The Internet has the ability to bring people together
with people they’ve never wanted to meet in a way that
was unimaginable only decades ago. In the chatrooms of
the future, nerds will be talking to jocks, stoners will be
talking to nerds, goths will be talking to stoners, and
preppies, well, preppies will still probably only be talking
to themselves.

Will the Internet succeed in bringing people together
and ﬁnally freeing humanity from the conﬁnes of petty

'hatred? Who knows. But I’ll tell you this much. . . I can

imagine a day in the very near future in which a wizened
old Arab man and an Israeli rabbi log on to a chatroom late
one night and begin a conversation:

AbdulAziz: Hi room. Age/sex?

Menachem: 18/f here.

AbdulAziz: l7/f.

Menachem: Wanna cyber?

AbdulAziz: Got any girl/girl pics?

Menachem: Yeah, I’ ll send you some.

Signs...

vinyl lettering &
logos, etc. on
banners

metal

wood

glass

composite material

* Donelle M. D. Bowman
Graphic Arts & Illustration

Graphic Arts...

desktop publishing
logo design
brochures
advertisements
displays

props

sets

Illustration...
pencil

pen & ink
caricature
charcoal/ pastel
multi-media

(540) 464-3351 0 doneIIe@cfw.com

...a full service art studio
specializing in
”concept to completion” projects

 

ﬁ‘:;’r°:o:‘r: CLIENT REFERENCES - COMPLE PORTFOLIO AVAILABLE
of the century.” ‘A
 111:1‘ I
E 0
§ Putyour DIRTY LAUNDRY ,
§  in your DIRTY ‘AR and
SHOPPING CENTER Tow"!
Head north about 10 miles on Rte. 11 North to Fairfield to the area's NEWEST, CLEANEST
coin laundry and car wash facilities are on the left about a 1/4 mile past the Fairfield Texaco. ll
Open 7 days a week from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
°$eIf Service Laundry *
°$eIl‘ Service Qar Wash
'A"‘°"“‘ﬁ‘ c" Wm‘ war: as M m
...there's even a full menu restaurant "(closed Mondavs) P" ' ,

featuring your favorite foods and beverages.

   

Bamk£a.itcomiiig'rotuidtli¢bendl

 

{$72,755
K557...
v~ I07»
500.17
c.» ‘2___

Ultra ilttrtg-tit

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY

WASl~llNGTC)N ii LEE UNIVERSITY’

III

ll.EX¢'N('iTON. VA 

WAsHINGToN AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

“i”l"ilﬂl1i

VOLUME 102, No.17

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2000

KA faces new
IFC violation

Alcohol at Rush date results

in new probation for fraternity
By Max Smith

News EDITOR

Kappa Alpha is on social probation after an Inter-Fra-
temity Council patrol saw three people drinking beer in the
fraternity house during an official Rush date on Thursday
night.

IFC president Chris Brown said the patrol spotted the
offense around 7 p.m., but Brown could not confmn who
was drinking. Any alcohol in the house during Rush is a
violation of Rush policy.

The IFC met with KA on Friday night in what Brown
called “an open and shut case.” KA agreed to the stan-
dard punishment of two weeks of social probation and a
$2,000 fine. Brown said Thursday night’s violation was
KA's first IFC offense since their return from a one-year
suspension due to hazing violations.

Several KAs refused to comment and chapter President
Evan Beale could not be reached for comment.

Both Dean of Students David Howison and Associate
Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said KA’s viola-
tion won’t change administrative oversight after their re-
turn from suspension.

“KA was reinstated in good standing and the IF C is in
charge of any problems,” Dean Howison said.

Brown and Atkins said KA’s national chapter may en-
force a stricter punishment than the lFC’s.

Brown said KA isn’t allowed to have parties for the
next two weeks, on- or off-campus. He said they could
have a Tear Night for their pledges on Saturday, but no
party afterwards.

The standard punishment for a party during social pro-
bation is a $2,500 fine and a probation extension through
the end of the term.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

“HUDDLE UP, GUYS”: Brothers of Kappa Alpha crowd together during their Tear Night celebration.

GHQ opens with Java

Cafe will give students a non-alcoholic
alternative to Wednesday night parties

p me by Eil Bames/Photo ditor

RACK’EM UI>!: Chi Psi brothers and pledges enjoy game of pool during one of the Rush dates.

Rushing to join the Greek scene

 

Almost 200 freshmen accept bids from fraternities on Tear night

By Michael Crittenden

Assocm TE EDITOR

Formal Rush came and went this
last week, and for Washington and
Lee’s freshmen males, the joy and
pains ofjoining a fraternity will fi-
nally be realized. As of Sunday
night, the houses with the most
pledges appear to be Fiji and KA.
According to Fiji Rush chair An-
drew Simmons, Rush was a pleas-
ant surprise this year.

“We got a really outstanding

group of guys who will bring a lot’

to the house,” Simmons said. “They
are really good, and in eight weeks
they will be even better.”

Dean of Students David
Howison was even more excited
when the dust settled this week and
pledge numbers rolled in.

“These are the best numbers and
the most even distribution ofpledges
in the 10 years that l’ve been here,”
Howison said. “Our goal is to have
each fraternity get strong and stable
numbers each year.”

Formal Rush for men began on
Tuesday night, when freshmen at-
tended one or two Rush dates at
fraternity houses. This schedule
was repeated on Wednesday, and
then each rushee had the opportu-
nity to accept two bids on Thurs-

day. Men had until Saturday to de-
cide on which house to pledge.
According to freshman Nate
Johnson, the Rush process was
surprisingly stressful.

“It really surprised me. The process
is too political and there is too much
dirty rushing and it was very stress-
ful,” Johnson said. “It is miserable.”

Dirty rushing refers to a
fratemity’s slander of another frater-
nity in front ofa freshman male.

Freshmen Rush dates were deter-
mined by a process that combined
fraternity and freshmen preference

cards that were filled out before
Christmas Break. Each freshman that
chose to rush was given a card with
the name of all ofthe fraternities on
it. Freshmen were told to put the fra-
ternities in the order of their prefer-
ence. At the same time, each frater-
nity submitted a preference list of all
the freshmen. The IFC then com-
bined the two lists and came up with
a list of Rush dates for each fresh-
man. Each date consisted of either
dinner or dessert, and was held at
each fraternity house.
Just over 200 men rushed.

Fiji.............16
KappaSigma.....16
SigmaChi.......15
, LamdaChi.......15
SAE............14
PiKA...........14
PhiKap.........13

ME1\—I:S_ RUSH 2000 T

The ﬁnal numbers

I Total.........198

SPE.............13
Beta.............13
PiPhi............11
PhiDelt..........11
ChiPsi...........11|
SigmaNu.........9
PhiPsi...........9

By Max Smith

News EDITOR

Looking to fill the void left when
the Ruse closed in October, a new Uni-
versity-sponsored coffee shop will
open this Wednesday in the GHQ.

“We want to provide an alternative
for students to take a break that
doesn’t involve a party where alcohol
is served,” said Dr. Jane Horton, Di-
rector of Health Services.

Funded through a $3,500 grant
from the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board and matched by the
Student Activities Office, the coffee
shop, called “Java at the GHQ,” will
feature free coffee and a variety of
entertainment options. It will be open
every Wednesday from 8:30 p.m. to
1:00 a.m.

Senior Josh Harvey will provide en-
tertainment opening night, and Burr
Datz will follow next week. Future en-
tertainment options range from karaoke
to comedians to poetry readings.

Horton said she wants campus
groups to.sponsor nights by provid-
ing their own entertainment. For ex-
ample, the Outing Club will present
slides and food from India and Nepal
on Feb. 2 and South America on Mar.
8. Horton hopes less-organized groups

like dorm halls will sponsor nights by
playing some of their favorite CD5.

“It’s important for student groups
to plan and meet their interests
through programs that can be held at
the coffee shop,” Horton said.

With few alcohol-free gathering
places available on or off-campus,
Horton hopes the coffee shop will pro-
vide students with an alcohol-free en-
vironment to relax and have fun.

“Java at the GHQ” is also an experi-
ment to gauge student response to a
coﬂ°ee shop in the University Commons
currently in development. If success-
ful, Horton wants to open a coffee shop
in the Commons using student feedback
to make it a frequent hangout.

Student managers will run the cof-
fee shop. Specialty coffees, other non-
alcoholic beverages and a selection of
deserts from Dining Services will also
be available. Royal Cup Coffee,
chaired by W&L trustee Hatton Smith,
is donating equipment. The program
has agreed to buy their coffee from
Royal Cup.

“I think it’s a great idea because
it’s something that, if students give it
a chance, provides a great opportu-
nity for them to develop a place that
meets their interests,” Horton said. “It
can be somewhere they want to be.”

 

Mock Con
lands Dole

Former majority -
leader will give
keynote address

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Fours years ago, presidential
contender Bob Dole spoke at Wash-
ington and Lee’s Mock Convention
via telephone when he received the
Republican nomination. This year,
however, Dole will attend in person
as the keynote speaker of the event.

 

Bob Dole

Mock Con general chairman Mark
Schweppe expressed his pleasure in
Dole’s conﬁrmation, calling him a,
“well respected individual within the
Republican Party, as well as a great
role model for our generation.”

Dole will be joined by seven other
previously confirmed speakers: Rep.
J .C. Watts, former secretary of edu-
cation Bill Bennett, Oklahoma Gov.
Frank Keating, Republican National
Committee Chairman Jim Nicholson,
Rep. Bob Goodlatte, Mayor of Jer-
sey City Bret Schundler, and former
Sen. Bill Brock.

Dole himself is a three-time presi-
dential candidate, who has served
as Senate majority leader, chairman
of the Republican Party, congress-
man, and is a recipient ofthe Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom. Ronald
Reagan said of Dole, “his title of
Leader is notjust ajob title, it’s de-
scription of the man.”

“With the addition of Bob Dole,
the 2000 Mock Convention can now
claim to have assembled the most
impressive list of speakers in the his-
tory of [the event,” Mock Con’s po-
litical chairman David Dardis said.

Mock Con has successfully pre-
dicted the nomination of the chal-
lenging. party’s candidate for the-
past 16 out of 21 attempts since 1908,
a record which organizers attribute
to the diligent research conducted
by student participants.

“We’re real excited about it be-
cause it’s the only student-run pre-
dictor of the presidential race in the
country,” said public relations chair
Nancy Dixon. “The media portrays
the youth of our country as politi-
cally apathetic, but 90 percent of the
student body is involved.”

For more information on Mock
Con, a website is available at:
http://mockcon.wlu.edu

January 17, 2000

OPINION:

W&L1FE:
Mike’s Pub opens

S1>oRTs:
Dunkin’ D-1 style

LAsT WORD:

@112 Tlting-tum Elﬂhi

Greek system must rid suck factor

Pledgeship: the home game

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

TALK To THE HAND: Sophomore
Jessica Mentz in the Guilford game.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo E 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

E1111: ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂht

NEWS

JANUARY 17, 2000

E-mail General Notes to ‘,
F:

l— 

Opening of parking garage delayed

The opening of Washington and Lee University's 609-
vehicle parking garage has been delayed by approximately
a month. The Haskell Co., a design/build ﬁrm from Jack-
sonville, Fla., that is managing the project, requested a
time extension to Feb. 28. The garage was originally sup-
posed to be ready by Feb. 1.

The project was delayed by poor soil conditions that
made construction of some of the foundations more com-
plicated and led to a collapse Of the bank just below the
Warner Center.

Film Society to show “After Life”

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present the
Japanese drama, “Aﬁer Life”, directed by Kore-eda Hirokazu.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
Jan. 20 and 21, in the Troubadour Cinema. As always, there
is no charge for admission, although contributions are wel-
come. This ﬁlm is in Jananese. with English .Qlll'\fi1'ln=c

More a meditation on the value of memory than a specu-
lation on the hereafter, After Life ponders this possibility:
when you die, you are allowed to choose one fond memory
of life to retain eternally. Heaven, in this gentle ﬁlm, is not
the standard Hollywood stuff-no celestial choirs, no special
effects-but a somber and pragmatic working place.

W&L to hold ODK initiation Jan. 19
Twenty-one undergraduate students, eight law students,

and six honorary initiates will be tapped into Omicron Delta

Kappa, the national honorary fraternity, during the

 

 

_ photo courtesy Stephanie Bianca
' SHOWING YOUR TRUE COLORS: A W&L dad shows
his support for his favorite college.

Come and write for

@112 ilting-tum iﬂlii

Join in the fun, laughter, and behind-the-scenes
excitement of W&L’s oldest and most prestigious
newspaper

e-mail us at phi@wlu.edu or call X4060 and leave a message

 

.ooooo-noc-u
uoonotnvovos
.ocaxa.~..n-.

Founders’ Day/ODK Convocation at Washington and Lee
University on Wednesday, Jan. 19 at 11:30 a.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Founders’ Day is celebrated each year on or around
Jan. 19, Robert E. Lee's birthday. After Lee's death, the
board of trustees of Washington College resolved that his
birthday should always be celebrated at the college. Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, the national honorary fraternity founded
at Washington and Lee in 1914, recognizes superior lead-
ership achievements in various aspects of campus life.

This year's honorary initiates are: Andrew N. Baur '66;
Barbara J. Brown: The Rev. Betsy Hague; Reno S. Harp III
'54, '56L; The Hon. Frederick P. Stamp Jr. '56, and Dr. James
K. VanKirk

Hague is the guest speaker and the title of her talk is
“Preparing for Leadership in the 2 1 st Century.” Ordained
by both Episcopal and Lutheran bishops, Hague earned
her degrees from Georgetown University School of Nurs-
ing, the University of Maryland and Wesley Theological
Seminary.

Baur is CEO and chairman of the board of Southwest
Bank of St. Louis. He has served his community as chair of
St. Luke's hospital, as a trustee of St. Louis University and
as a member of the St. Louis Regional Commerce & Growth
Association. as well as a board member of St. Louis Coun-
try Day School, St. Louis Zoo Association, St. Louis
Children's Hospital and Webster College.

A graduate of Iowa State University and Columbia Uni-
versity, Brown has been University librarian at W&L since
1985. She has served on a number of committees for the
American Library Association, the Southeastern Library
Network and the Virginia Library Association.

When Harp retired as chief counsel to the State Judicial
Inquiry and Review Commission in 1997, The Roanoke
Times commented that for over 25 years, Harp had kept
Virginia judges in line. Over the years, Harp has been As-
sistant and Deputy Attorney General of Virginia, and he

has served as a board member of the National Association.

of Prosecutor Training Coordinators and as chair of the
lntemational Association of Game and Fish Commissions‘
Legal Committee.

Stamp serves as chief judge for the United States dis-
trict court for the northern district of West Virginia. From
1966 to 1970 he served in the West Virginia Legislature and
was president of the state's Board of Regents.

A cum laude graduate of Duke University and recipient
of the University of Virginia School of Medicine's Out-
standing Preceptor award, VanKirk was recently elected a
fellow in the American College of Physicians.

Student initiates into ODK:

Senior Class of 2000: David Scott Hanson, Elizabeth
Anne Harvey, Lezael Andrea Haynes, Mary Kirnbrell Hight,
Stephen Day Hopkins, William Alexander Kanner, Jill Eliza-
beth Kosch, David Seth Levinson, David Jason Miller, Gre-
gory Legare Pleasants, Nancy LeAn_ne Reinhart, Charles
Straub, Khanh Dong Nhat Vo, MaryHElizabeth Whipple,

0 Mary Elizabeth Winfrey, Christine Kaming Wong.

Junior Class of 2001 : Daniel Moffett Birdwhistell, Jef-
frey Kenneth Cook, Jordan Samuel Ginsberg, Anne
Cummins Hazlett, Lauren Elizabeth LaFauci.

Law Class of 2000: Matthew Kiel Mahoney, Devon
James Munro, Michael Peter Frederick Phelps, Jonathan
Duncan Pitchford, Danielle Laura Smith.

Law Class of 2001 2 Alice Dorothy Decker, Henry Malloy
Evans III, Heidi Amber Reamer.

Summer Scholar-ships available

A grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation
will ﬁind approximately eight minority tuition scholarships
annually for Washington and Lee University's Summer
Scholars program. Additionally, two of those scholarships
will be designated for minority students residing in
Rockbridge County.

The grant was for $125,000 and increases the Summer
Scholars Hearst Fund to a total of $200,000.

W&L’s Summer Scholars program annually brings to- i

gether approximately 150 rising high school seniors. They
attend classes taught by W&L professors, live in dorms,
use the school’s facilities and attend social functions.

For more information on the Summer Scholars program,
contact W&L’s ofﬁce of special programs at 463-8723.

TALK IS CHEAP
Metro CallTM Phone Card

2.9¢/minute

674 minutes of U.S. calling

FOR ONLY $20
39¢ connect charge on each call

GREAT INTERNATIONAL RATES!

Canada '— 3¢
Germany — 4¢

Jamaica —— 28¢
England — 3¢

*Connect charges vary from 50¢ to
$2.00 per international call

ORDER BY PHONE
A   (540) 463-1106

© 1999 VarsityBooks.com Inc.

We realize we don't have to waste your time explaining the virtues ol the Internet. Let's just say that at VarsityBool<s.com we've made the most at it.

Not only can you save up to 40% on your textbooks, but you'll also receive them in just one to three business clays.

All on a Web site that's completely reliable and secure. What more do you need to know?

Savings oft distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. Some restrictions apply, see site for details

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS.

  VarsityBooks.cOm

 

I

I

I

JANUARY17,2000

O Pii\¢“‘ibN

PAGE3

More brawls,
less suckj obs

Not that I’m a bitter man, but I do have a few complaints
about what has happened to this school and its Greek sys-
tem. How is it possible for a house who plasters the cam-
pus with VarsityBooks.com posters to wrangle together
such a large number of suckjob pledges? It would appear
that our admissions process is in dire need of revamping.
What is happening to our once homogeneous khakied sport
utility campus? I am severely disappointed with the state
of our union
when every
freshman in a
room throws
up after only
55 gallons of
punch. Pledges also are apparently growing more stupid
as the years progress. When it takes ﬁfteen tries for fresh-
men to learn a simple vulgarized version of the school ﬁght
song we might need to consider raising the SAT score
requirements.

I am growing disheartened with our school and its pa-
thetic standards of inebriation. If this trend continues we
will be precariously close to losing our Princeton Review
alcohol rankings. And what happened to good old frater-
nity wars? Has inter-house animosity truly been quelled or
are the fraternities too lackadaisical to wing an occasional
beer can at a neighbor? Come on fellas, shake up some
Natty and let it ﬂy.

I am not going to limit my ranting to men alone. I issue a
call to the sororities to not forget there are more than three
fraternities on campus. I’m tired of never seeing my friends
who are pledging sororities because suddenly I’m not on
the acceptable list. And please girls, enough with the sorry
on-campus strippers. Have you not seen enough pathetic
examples of fraternity nudity‘? But if you are so inclined,
there are other houses which will willingly disrobe for you.
I think that there should be an equal opportunity system in
which all fraternities (well, almost all of them) should be
allowed to display their ﬁnely-honed mixing skills. And
those of you Greek women with boyfriends, remember that
you could stop by and see your beaus on weekends dur-
ing your mixer rounds.

The Greek system at W&L has degenerated to being
more of an annoyance than something enjoyable. Our school
needs to rejuvenate itself. We need a new fraternity renais-
sance where houses engage in all night drunken brawls
only to sit next to each other in European history class the
next morning nursing mutual wounds. Sororities need to
retrace their steps. back to the days when they weren’t too
good for anyone. We all need to arrange an all-house mixer/
rage at Zollmans to reestablish contact and ﬁre up old ani-
mosities. So again, I urge you, pump some of the old life
and spirit into the fraternity and sorority system and we’ll
all be the better for it (excluding the damage bills).

 

Enemy of God
Taylor Ruilova ’0O

 

 

 

They got how many pledges?

—— Anonymous frat guys

(lire ilttng-tum iﬁlrt

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Dave Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

  

?

   

7 .4
1,4 .»
V1’

9:

0
‘to
T

Ahh. . . the memories of Tear night

Along with the rest of the school, waking up this
morning was not the easiest thing I have ever done. In
fact, it was a disaster. Something akin to running into a
large, mean bear with claws and in a bad mood. Not
that I know how you could tell if a bear has a mean
streak, but since I am just using it to make a point we
can work with it.

As I wash the beer from my body, slowly regain my
voice and wipe this last weekend

the Miami-Jacksonville football game, which I hesitate to
call a game because that was easily the worst showing of
a team in world history. Miami played like a bunch of nancy-
boys. Even a group of wasted, and I put a large emphasis
on wasted, sorority girls in black pants and tight sweaters
could have put up a better ﬁght and it would have been a
lot more fun to watch.

Now I will be having fun getting to know the new fresh-
men I am going to have to live with

from my consciousness, memories of
Tear Night debauchery slowly start ,;

to drift back into the realm of coher-  Michael Crittenden ’01

I““'»v. dash
. S t3Bad<p0rd1Balder

over the next year and a half. As bond-
ing experiences go, a chance like Tear
Night only comes along once a year.
The camaraderie, the boyish exuber-

ent thought. Scary images of 60 adult
males chanting, ripping their shirts,
covered in beer, and listening to loud heavy metal. If
our parents could see us I am sure they would be proud.
Of course for them to recognize us, we’d ﬁrst have to
remove the bits of former t-shirts and caked beer from
our eyes.

After a week of the back-stabbing political shenani-
gans that make up men’s Rush, however, a little release is
needed. Of course the only other thing of interest on was

ance, and energy, the 18 billion gal- T

lons of beer being poured on me as 40 guys rip the shirt off
my back like vultures on a carcass.

I wouldn’t give it up for the world though, because after
you graduate the only thing you have is a piece of paper
with your degree on it and the friendships you’ve made.
The former might help you get ajob, but the latter is what
is really important. Not that it excuses the bacchanal we
call Tear Night, but hey, it’s good enough for me.

An independent freshman ’s perspective on W&L ’s Greek system

With men’s and women’s rush behind us, we can now
say goodbye to yet another Tear Night, chanting Kappa’s
at 8:30 m the morning (for which you will pay), and Pi Beta
Phi written all over the campus in chalk. How-
ever, as the 146 women and 200 men who re-
ceived bids go off and begin their pledgeship 5»
activities, those of us who are independent can
sit back, relax and laugh.

What makes someone stay independent at
a school where Greek life is as important as
food, water and shelter? The label attached to us should
explain it all. We are independent.

Webster deﬁnes independent as, “not inﬂuenced by
the thought or action of others; not inﬂuenced or con-
trolled by others in matters of opinion, conduct, think-
ing or acting for oneself.” That hits the nail right on the
head. Just because we are independent do not .think

  

A 4'9-4

 View

’ Neal Willetrs ’05

that we are a bunch of boring, do-nothing tools, who
spend all our time studying and being “good” students.

Independents do go and party, many just as often as
those in fratemities or sororities
do. Many people see the Greek
system as a good opportunity to
be able to meet other people that
you may not nonnally run across.
Some people, however, feel that
once they belong, they are
stopped from associating with other people depending on
where they ended up accepting a bid. According to one
freshman girl, “I did not want to feel socially restricted.”

Out ofa freshman class of approximately 470, 346
pledged, leaving about 120 independent students, or about
one quarter of the class.

Freshman Susan Woodward said that her reasons for

Tear night: No
“Animal House”

“A lot of people end up in the hospital.”

“Take everything off your doors; newly frat-enized
drunk freshmen will tear it down.”

“Wear your worst clothing; everything will end up cov-
ered in beer by the end of the night.”

For me, the notorious Tear Night was the equivalent of
Y2K: a lot of fear inducing threats only to be dispelled by
a typical evening of garden variety debauchery.

I had sported my three for $1 Fruit of the Loom tee shirt,
jeans that looked like they would complement a smock,

and sneakers

  Northeners Exposme that “ad 4°‘
 _ _ cidedly seen
"  ‘ K115 P01111121 03 better days.
I" ' By the end of

the night, I looked exactly the same. But obviously, I am
speaking for a minority.

At Pi Phi, I witnessed my best friend fall victim to a
waterfall of beer while her sorority big sister had her chant
her respective sorority chant while on her knees. I didn’t
have the opportunity to view the long, hard path to intoxi-
cation the upperclassmen thrust upon their new pledges,
but I had the pleasure and entertainment of watching the
end product. It was fairly easy to discern the pledges from
the upperclassmen, simply by virtue of half-open, red eyes;
heads frequently plunged into garbage cans; and other
symptoms of life-long liver damage.

I might not have gotten the essence of Tear Night to its
fullest merely because of my gender. I had, regrettably,
missed the freshmen reactions to the strippers each frater-
nity had hired, and I did not get to observe how exactly the
freshmen had reached such an inordinate state of inebria-
tion by the time I arrived.

Though I didn’t truly get the full effect of Tear Night, I
saw the repercussions the next morning. The entire frat
house reeked of vomit, beer, and just an overall acerbic
scent. The ﬂoors were covered in Domino’s boxes, cold
pizza, unidentiﬁed liquids, and assorted articles of cloth-
ing. The walls were sprinkled with holes and promises of
ﬁnes.

I did not lose any articles of clothing throughout the
course of the evening, maybe a few brain cells, at most.
But I get angry when my hair falls out of my rubber band,
so my lack of Tear Night experience could be a result of my
evasion of the line of ﬁre. But as I said, it seemed to be a
Y2K scenario; I had been warned since September of the
detriments of Tear Night, had learned to fear the very name,
had learned to build this weekend up to be the be-all, end-
all of college parties. It was, no doubt, a bombardment of
alcohol induced, “fratastic” wholesome fun, house after
house of crazed students neglecting the threat of the hang-
over of the century, forgetting about the subsequent week
of classes, not to mention the eight lingering weeks of
pledgeship.

Though I may have missed out on the beer matted hair
aspect of the evening, the promised hospital trips, and
havoc that I been anticipating all semester, I did relish the
refreshing, yet somewhat twisted, omnipresent sense of
buoyancy and vivacity that tore up the rows of fraternity

houses. Almost everyone seemed immune to the fact that I

tomorrow meant a day of hungover homework attempts,
and even worse, that Monday meant the onset of a two
month microcosm of Hell. Only in college. Only in college
can the theme of carpe diem be manifested in beer soaked
clothing and freshmen guy strippers.

2; Going Greek is not the only choice available

not pledging were, “partly ﬁnancial and partly because most
of my friends stayed independent. People not Greek have
their own ‘fra-ority’ and we have each other.”

Those staying independent can easily spend their time
with anyone they wish, leaving themselves open and less
committed to anything in particular. Joining a fraternity is a
huge ﬁnancial responsibility, and for many women, the
sororities are too expensive as well. Many people are just
simply unwilling to come away from college with their only
debt being for the equivalent of a social club. Others are
turned off by rumors and stories that they hear about
pledgeship activities.

Others, whose reasons are not as simple as ﬁnancial or
wanting to stay with their independent friends, have a more
critical attitude.

“Independence is a virtue, and Greek life is not a place

. of virtues,” in the words of one freshman.

TALKback... What’.s your best Tear Night memory?

 

“Tear night sucked.”
-Katherine Hill ’03

 

“I enjoyed the punch a little
too much.”

“Completely bizarre.”

-Taylor Ruilova ’00

 

—Laura Leigh Birdwell ’03

 

 

“Putting a motorcycle helmet on my
head so I wouldn’t hurt myself.”
-Davis White ’03

 

 

Elli: iﬁing-tum lﬂlii

W& IFE 

Civil War and Civil Rights join mikfa lguh .

Virginia’s Lee-Jackson-King Day honors strange mix of heroes MOLSON ICE: Canada’s better export

PAGE 4

 

celebration day in 1984. Then
Virginia State Sen. L. Douglas
Wilder had been ﬁghting for
years for a holiday in recogni-
tion of King’s birthday, and he
was ﬁnally successful in 1984.
He wanted King’s life cel-
ebrated on his birthday, Jan.
15. Lee and Jackson already
had Jan. 19th, Lee’s birthday,
set aside for their celebration.
Ironically, new state legislation
was passed, mandating that all
state holidays be celebrated on
the Monday to which they fell

different men ended up with the
same commemorative holiday.
“They got lumped together,
this day, Lee-Jackson-King,” Wilder said
in a telephone interview with the Wash-
ington Post “It shouldn’t be that way.”
’ The odd state legislative process
left Virginians with one very unique

'I ' grap IC C011 85)’ 0 www.ne guie.com, ee courtesy

el°5e5i- Thus’ the three Very Civil Rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., Confederate General Robert E. Lee,
and Confederate General “Stonewall” Jackson share a joint state holiday today.

the home of two of these men.
Robert E. Lee was born Jan. 19,
1807. He was a West Point Military
Academy graduate, from which he is
famous for graduating without a single

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

In the so often seemingly
materialistic and selfish
world, one W&L student’s

Meet Kelly Stewart, a se-
nior English major. Stewart,
a member of the Kappa Delta
sorority and former Rho Chi,
serves as the Head Dorm
Counselor, has worked ex-
tensively with the Shepherd
Poverty Program, and serves
as a volunteer advocate for
Project Horizon in her “spare
time.”

Not easily burned out, Stewart
plans on continuing this life of
giving aﬁer graduation, hoping to
work for Americorps or the like.

While working in the Shepherd
Poverty Program, Stewart also
spent one of her summers volun-
teering in N Street Village, a large
nonproﬁt agency in Washington,
D.C., organized to help homeless
women. She wrote an extensive
class research paper on the prob-
lem of absent fathers especially in
low-income families, how that af-
fects children, and how to get fa-
thers interested in their families
again.

Stewart is a “people person”
and enjoys interacting with mem-
bers of the W&L and Lexington
communites.

Q: Do you know what you are
doing next year?

A: <laugh> “No, I don’t. I

more than anything, but it ended

i Signature Student
.7(e[[y CS/ewazf ‘00

up being a great choice”
Q: What was your biggest
surprise here?

Photo courtesy of the Calyx

A: “It was really amazing be-
ing around such intelligent
people all the time. . . All the
people here are so interesting.
They’re smart but also so in-
volved, have so much leader-
ship.”

Q: When you were little, what
did you want to be when you
grew up?

A: “It varied about once a
month, but just the usual things:
a lawyer, a doctor...” <she added
that her dream of becoming a doc-
tor ended when she realized she
got sick at the sight of blood>

Q: What was your worst Hal-
loween costume?

tic costumes from the store, with
a mask. Mom handmade this
beautiful clown costume, but I
had wanted to be something
pretty. Instead I had to wear this
awful red nose and wig.”

Q: What was your favorite TV

Anyone else notice a trend?

    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

p: xroas.virginia.e ~ -I‘

abolitionist John Brown’s raid on
Harper’s Ferry. Although he was anti-
slavery and anti—secession and had
been offered command of the Union
Army, Lee accepted command in the
south because he could not bear to
ﬁght his home state of Virginia. After
the Civil War, Lee acceptedthe posi-
tion of President of Washington Col-
lege. He was hesitant because he did
not want the stigma of his name to
harm the school; he need not have
worried. He broadened the liberal arts
curriculum to include pre-professional
programs such as engineering, jour-
nalism, and business. He broadened
the geographical scope of the student
body and created the Law School.
Most importantly to the school, he be-

Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson was
born Jan. 21, 1824. Like Lee, he was a
West Point graduate and fought in
Mexico. After the war, Jackson came
to Lexington to serve as a professor
of Natural and Experimental Philoso-
phy (Physics) as well as an instructor

write for the $111’

Like writing? Want to be read

by the entire W&L campus?

If so, we want YOU to write

for the Phi. Call x4060 or come
to any Tuesday night meeting at
7:00 in the Phi office.

Subscribe!

News, sports,
campus life, student

Keep up with all the
events at Washington
and Lee by subscribing
to the Ring—tum Phi,

Lexington, VA 24450

/lee.html, Jackson courtesy www.vmi.edu

 

attended Morehouse
College, and managed
to secure a Ph.D by
  1955. In 1948 he was
 ordained and became
7 the Associate Pastor of
Ebenezer Baptist
church in Atlanta, Ga.
He was elected presi-
dent of the Montgom-
ery Improvement Asso-
ciation, the group that
coordinated the Mont-
gomery Bus Boycott.
He was a famous civil
rights leader, arrested
thirty despite his non-
violent forrns of pro-
test. He is most famous
for his 1963 “I Have a Dream” speech,
delivered at the Lincoln Memorial in
Washington, D.C. during the March on
Washington for Jobs and Freedom. He
was Time Magazine’s Man of the Year
for 1963 and becarrie the youngest man
to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in
l964,atthe age of35.Thisbii1liantman’s
life ended at the hand of assassin James
Earl Ray on April 4, 1968. He is now a
candidate to be proclaimed a martyr by
the Roman Catholic Church.

Such are the three men celebrated
on this extraordinary and rather pecu-
liar Virginia holiday. As of yet, few if
any celebrate all three men in one event.

Some feel the men’s lives are too
different to share a single holiday.
Wilder is pushing for a segregated

example gives hope that car_ queathedhis sense ofhonor, character and holiday. “I invite the Sons of the Con-
ing and generosity are not Christian virtue to his students, ‘a legacy federate Veterans and the Daughters
entirely obsolete. that the school hopes to maintain today. of the Confederacy, and anyone else

who wants to join with me, to push to
have separate holidays,” he said.

Others believe that the men are all
educators and heroes and can be cel-
ebrated jointly. Most agree, though,
that the three incredible men make for
one wacky holiday.

C P : 9§4oa‘.m.-io:2s_
D 10:30a.in.,-j1i1:1:5 a.m.7

  
 

11:30 a.m. ,Fouiiders‘ Day/0

greater punch than our weaker
American beer. Buying a twelve-
pack at your local beer-supply
store should be enough to get

you through a night.

Though Mo-dog virgins may

By Eliarma Marziani ll°llda)’- While the Test Of the nation demerit. After graduation he became inartillery tactics forthe Virginia Mili- By Michael Crittenden he iiiihed °ff by ihe ihiiiai swig I
T Fg,47uR5sED1roR Ulalllly Only - an engi- tary Institute. Jackson was also ad- ASSOCIATEEDITOR ‘if Mhisohi which comes
Celebrates neer, until mired for his character, devotedness ihmhgh wiih a iaii’ Skiihky
what do Robert E_ Lee, Thomas today as he was to Chiisiianiiyiiesnonsihilityi and de_ Though this beer isn’t really taste, any veteraniknows thatithe
“stonewall” Jackson, and Martin M a r t 1 11 called to ienninaiion_ He lived on Washington up to the level ofthe beers I hope unique taste ofiimported, ice-
Luther King, Jr. have in common? Lu1herKing, serve in sheet dining his tenure at VMl_ in to explore in the future of this brewed je ne sals quot is some-
Seemingly nothing. And yet in Vir- Jr.Day,Vir- the Mexi- 1351’ with the start ofthe Civil wan column, 1 ﬁgured I would start thing you love to come home to.
~ 8llll3> and 0lllY lll Vllgllllaa all llllee gllllallsa and can War Jackson led VMI cadets to the con- With ‘me Of ihe beers i fiisi Though paie ahd h°i wiihohi
men’s lives are celebrated on the same especially ﬁom1346. federate ranks, where he accepted a Started drinking. generous head. (Yes, You Call
Cl.d)’?l-ee'l3°l<5°ll'l(lllg D3)“ leellgfliiiﬁ 1848. In commission as Colonel. He served lmported from Canada, nudge Your fllelld and lellgll
Lee-JackSon-King dayithe hohday haveadjﬁer. i359, he fromtheBatt1e0fl\/lanassasin1861“) Molson Ice’s distinctive green about that one) Molson Ice’s
celebrating two Civil War generals and ent focus. 5 u p — Chancellorsville in 1863,where he re- bottle and black label ls "Oi T0 ‘ll5lllleilVe"e55 l5 in lls abllllyilo
algoth century civil rights leader, joins Lexjng- p i e s s e d eeived a fatal wound, He is new hin_ be confused with that yuppie- be consumed rapidly and with
ranks with holidays such as Memorial ton was r a d i c a l ied in the Lexington Stonewall Jack- America“ Pig'5Wiil khewh as maximum effech Thiihgh 3 iah
lgayilsahoilgayicolinnhusdayi son Ceinetei—y_ Rolling Rock. 1 don’t think there over-carbonated, what can you
and Independence Dayinbeing Martin Luther King, ls 3 more Past)’ Wlllle'AmeTlCall doa eh? _
ieeognizedasone ofonly ll of_ _]l-_ was born on jan_ l5, beer around. I would also like to take this
l-icialsiaieholidayinfallsonnie  l929, more than a een_ But back to my favorite beer time to suggest people try
third Monday in January. 0 '1. tary aﬁer Lee and Jack- from our neighbors the Canadi- Molson’s other lines of beer, in-
. These three unlikely hoh-  s()n_I-Iewas very bright’ ans. With an alcohol content of cluding Molson Golden and
day-mates gained their joint I skipped several grades, 5-5 Peleelll» M°'d0g5 Cally 3 Molson EXPO”: Wlllell You can

only get up north in Canada or
New England, but that packs a
punch in the 7-12 percent range
for alcohol content. All in all, I
have to give Molson three
“eh’s” and a “hoser.” Cheers.

Plihotoiby Hollister oveyl Staff Photographer

Senior clarinetist Haley Hall takes a bow at the Univer-
sity Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra concert Saturday
night in the Lenfest Center. Shuko Watanabe joined the
orchestra as a guest artist, playing the piano.

   

' i7p.m.

7:30 p.m.

Currently she helps out with A: “I hated this awful clown Opinions, hUlllOr, i 10:00 P'hi' Uh°i°iMihg°? Psi‘ ‘ ,
Project Horizon, the organization costume that my mom made for - 7    ' P ‘ * P ” i ’
responsible for helping victims of me. Now Ithink it’s very Cool, but Special events and_ Annayi  V izznmn  so-l-uludayl Jan.  -. 2 i i i
domestic violence. I wanted one of those cheap plas— SO much more  i U . — ’ » 1039 am_ . wl-esgliing, Wi&I;i1nyitaitibnal:

   

 ‘E   A —

Friday, Jun. 21 .

1:30 p.m. P

 
  
 
  

Woodrow Wilson Visitin_g’Fel1ow
Lecture. “Maintaining o‘infBalance

‘ 19:1: Centi‘u'y.Civi'cs in a 21stCen- _;f ,
 World,” Tanya Me1ich,~presi- »
. dent ofPolil:ical Issues 

a political management and public

0 policy consulting ﬁrm, New York
" City. Northeri Auditorium.‘ "

 

Film Society.ii“AﬁerLife,”:(Japi  "
1999), directedby Kore-eida
I-lirokazu’. Troubadour 

Warner Center. (Schools participat-
ing areCurnberland, Davidson,. 9 ’

« Gallaudet, Longwood, Pensacola .

Christian, University of Scranton,

7 sWashington&JeffeisonandW&iL.) i

Opera Broadcast. “Cavalleria '
lniigln Work at a nonproﬁt Ztiengy Show gigging UP‘? h h h if W&L’s ofﬁcial student Rusticana” by Mascagniand . 
i e Americorps or possi y o A: “ eers, event oug a . ~ '79 9 ‘ ._ » . _* 
some consulting and advertising.” the time my parents wouldn’t let n€WSpaper. Send yOLlI'  byLe0ncavan°5“__iLU,R .773
Q: Why didyou come to W&L? me watch it. Ithink I had a crush name’ address and  n — 0 i .i   0 L
A: <another laugh> “I guess I on Woody. And, of course he 7:30 pim i 0-Film Socizetyna
just wanted to get out ofMissouri, sang the ‘Kelly’ song, so that tO2 i999)  Koreﬁda , V ’ 
ﬁrst and foremost. Then there’s didn’t help matters!” The Ring-tum Phi l.liml(;izn_ Tinnhadoni. Cinema A
the small class size and the beau- Q: What is your favorite color? University Center Room 208 » e i 0 i .
tiful area it’s in. It was kind of luck A: “Kelly green.” Washington & Lee University 10:00 n_m. Breakfast club’ Chiepsiigj   i

 

  

 
  
     
     
  
  

  

    

 

JANUARY 17, 2000

 

 in“ s

  

DOWN TO THE WIRE: Coach Lafave and the Generals regroup during Wednesday’s OT win over LC.

Road weary swim teams face
national stand-out Johns Hopkins

Washington and Lee traveled to
national-power Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity on Sunday for its third dual
swim meet in as many days. The Blue
Jays claimed a 169-104 victory in the
men's meet, while their women's team
defeated the Generals by a score of
182-83.

The W&L men's team (7-4) had
three individual winners in the loss to
Hopkins. Junior Colin Hayes emerged
victorious in the 200 yard butterﬂy, in
a time of 2:01.07. Freshman Patrick
Frankfort claimed a win in the 500 yard
freestyle (4:57.66), while senior Ken
Ervin won the 50 yard freestyle (22.49).

On the women's side, W&L (8-4)
had only one individual race winner.
Sophomore Katie Kennedy won her
sixth and seventh races of the week-
end, claiming victories in the 200 yard
breaststroke (2133.16), and the 100 yard
breaststroke (1 : 10.73). W&L also won
the200 yard ﬁeesityéle-relay‘—irr a time of
1:46.22. '*‘**"*

Saturdasy, the Generals traveled
to Catholic University and came
away empty-handed, as the men's

team lost to the Cardinals by a score
of 115-89, while the women's team
lost 119-86.

The W&L men's team) was paced
by Frankfort who claimed two indi-
vidual victories. Frankfort swam his
way to victories in the 500 yard
freestyle and the 200 yard freestyle.
W&L also had two other swimmers
who won individual events. Hayes
emerged victorious in the 200 yard but-
terﬂy, while junior Rob Little won the
200 yard backstoke.

On the women's side, W&L had
only one individual race winner.
Kennedy carried the team single-
handedly, winning three races on
the day. Kennedy swam her way to
victories in the 200 breaststroke,
the 500 freestyle, and the 100
freestyle.

W&L hosted Buffalo State College
in a dual swim meet at home on Friday
aﬁemoon. The Generals-claimed a- 1 19-
63 victory in the men's competition,
while the W&L women's squad rolled
to a 113-71 victory.

For the women's squad, Kennedy

led the way with two individual wins.
Kennedy placed ﬁrst in the 200 yard
IM (2: 17.38) and the100 yard breast-
stroke (1 : 10.68). Also claiming indi-
vidual victories for W&L were senior
Lauren Beckenhauer in the 100 yard
backstroke (1105.29), and freshman
Blair Huffman in the 100 yard butterﬂy
(1204.77).

On the men's side, the Generals
were paced by Hayes, who claimed
three victories. Hayes emerged vic-
torious in the 200 yard IM (2203.35),
the 100 yard butterﬂy (55.99), and
the 100 yard breaststroke (1204.05).

_Senior Ken Ervin claimed both the

50 yard freestyle (22.68) and the 100
yard freestyle (50.52). Other winners
for the Generals were freshmen Zach
Fake in the 200 yard freestyle
(1252.62) and Frankfort in the 500
yard freesty1e(4:58.55). The Bengals
claimed only one victory on the day.
 ’W&L ﬁnally gets a much needed
rest, as it will not compete until Janu-
ary 23, when it travels to Sewanee for
a 1:00 pm meet.
—C0urtesy Sports Information

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

  B-ball cools off Two stumbles

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals’ men’s basketball team
started their week the same way they (ended the last with a
win. However, two straight league losses on the road fol-
lowed leaving the Generals with a losing ODAC record and a
need for regrouping.

The week started with the Generals’ most thrilling victory in
recent memory, a 96-92 quadruple overtime victory against
Lynchburg. Senior Brian Ricketts amassed career-highs in
points, rebounds, and blocks, with 27, 21, and six respectively.
Freshman Toussaint Crawford totaled 27 points on 12-18 shoot-
ing including a thundering dunk that was possibly the most
exciting spectacle in the history of the Warner Center.

The Generals continued their road woes on Saturday in
an 80-64 pounding at Randolph-Macon. The Generals sirn—
ply could not shoot in this game, going 3-23 irom behind the
arc and shooting just 28.6 percent ﬁ'om the ﬂoor. Ricketts
continued his dominant play, however, netting 20 points and
pulling down 10 boards. Will Ballard aided the Generals’ los-
ing cause with 14 points, and senior Scott Hudson added 10
points to go along with 7 rebounds.

W&L again failed to win on the road Sunday in a 76-69
loss to ODAC foe Virginia Wesleyan. Ricketts again was the
man for the Generals, tallying 15 points, while Crawford added
14 and fellow freshman Will Cotter netted 12. The Generals’
loss was their 6th consecutive on the road meaning they
have yet to win away from Lexington the entire season.

“We’ve had problems right from the tap and we’re getting
behind early. The coaches are doing everything right. We were
hoping to come out of this weekend with two wins, but even a
split would have been considered a successful trip,” said Cotter.

The Generals beat Virginia Wesleyan earlier in the season
at the Warner Center, but have yet to play Randolph-Macon
at home. “It will be a totally different game,” continued Cot-
ter. “We only shot 28 percent down there, while they shot in
the high 405. Those stats could easily turn around at home.”

W&L, now 5-7 overall and 4-5 in the ODAC, will have to
wait a little longer before returning to the friendly confines of
Lexington. They travel to Emory, Va. Wednesday to face
Emory and Henry, tip-off at 7:00 pm.

PAGE 5 

By Robert Turner :1

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s Basketball team had
a frustrating week, losing two close ODAC games to
drop their record to 6-5 overall and 4-4 in the confer-
ence. The Generals started their week off in the most
irritating fashion Tuesday, losing to Emory and Henry’
56-54 on a last second 15 footer by the Wasps.

W&L, down 32-27 at the half, used a 13-2 run after
the intermission to take a 40-34 with 14:20 left, but Emory ’
and Henry regained their composure from that point on‘
and fought back to clinch the victory. Interestingly, the‘:
Wasps (4-1 in ODAC competition) did not attempt at
free throw for the entire game, but made up for this?
deﬁciency by 8-15 from beyond the three-point arc.

The Generals were led by senior Ansley Miller’s 171
points, and also received solid contributions from
sophomore Jessica Mentz and senior Jessica Morton,‘
who chipped in 10 points apiece. Mentz also led thei
team with 12 rebounds, but the Generals were unable to
overcome their 24 turnovers. '

W&L attempted to bounce back Saturday in another.
ODAC matchup versus Guilford College, but again came
up a little short. The Generals opened the game on a
terriﬁc 14-2 run, but struggled for the rest of the ﬁrst
half and went into intermission trailing 42-34.

W&L battled back though to knot the score at 75-75’
with 5:26 remaining, but clutch shooting by Guilford
from the free throw line (20-24 for the game) secured?
their victory. Guilford forward Arden Miller hurt the.
Generals the most, scoring a career high 31 points on 7-’
8 three-point shooting. R‘

W&L was again led in scoring by Miller, who tallied-
22 points on a 9-10 effort from the charity stripe. Sopho-'
mores Sarah Schmidt and Mentz also added 15 points
each for the Generals, while their classmate Megan Babst'
recorded her seventh double-double of the year with’

12 points and 12 boards. '-

T'he Generals look to regain their winning form Thurs-
day, January 20 in a game at Randolph Macon Women’s
College. '

W&L takes second at Swarthmore 1

Senior Chad Casto and sophomore
Ezra Morse claimed individual cham-
pionships en route to leading the
Washington and Lee wrestling team
to a second place finish at the
Swarthmore College Invitational over
the weekend in Swarthmore, Pa.

W&L had nine wrestlers compete
in the event. Casto and Morse each
won three consecutive matches to
claim their championships.

Casto claimed the title in the 125-

pound category, while Morse won in
the 197-pound classiﬁcation. Other
wrestlers making strong showings in
their categoriesincluded junior Josh
Chamberlain ﬁnishing third among the
149-pounders, freshman Ericson Davis
ﬁnishing fourth in the 184-pound cat-
egory, and junior John Sensing finish-
ing fourth in the 286-pound classiﬁca-
tion.

In the team scoring, W&L ﬁnished
second to York College, who ran away

from me ﬁeld with 1 1 1 points, includ-
ing three champions and three sec-, .
ond-place finishers. W&L finished in '
second with a total of 43 points, just.
edging out third-place Davidson Col-'
lege, who finished with" 39 points. ,
W&L will return to action on Janu-2
my 22, when it hosts the‘ W&L Invita- 5.
tional in Lexington. The matches aref
set to begin at10:30 a.m. in the Warner 2;
Center. 
——Courtesy Sports Information 3

RESERVE

OFFICERS’

TRAINING

CORPS

mates by attending
Army ROTC Camp

week summer course in

If you didn't sign up for
ROTC as a freshman or
sophomore, you can still
catch up to your class-

'4)
§
Bimini?

ARMY ROTC

Challenge, a paid six-

SIJMMER SCHOOL
FOR PEOPLE
ON THEIR WAY
TO THE TOP.

leadership training. By the
time you graduate from col-
lege, you'll have the creden-
tials of an Army officer.
You'll also have the self-
confidence and disci-
pline it takes to succeed
in college and beyond.

  

TRESMARTESTCOI.I.EGE
COURSEYOUCANTRRE.

Cpt. Chris Whittaker
464-7187

whittal<ercj@vmi.edu

us

14;.-,

 

PAGE 6

Happy Lee/
J ackson/MLK

PLEDGES!-llP.'.'.'® the home game

“All the fun of pledgeship with none of the physical scars”

players: Up to ﬁfteen.
ages: 18-22.

equipment needed: One
die, one Phi, some bottle caps
or beer can tabs for markers.
You may also want a piece of
paper and a pen to keep track

of your number of pledges and
brothers.
object: The ﬁrst player to get
a 60-man‘ house wins.
rules: “We have only one rule
here, and that is that every
man acts like a gentleman.”
real rules: All players start
with thirty brothers. Each
player puts marker on the
“lNlTlATlON/RUSH” square and
one marker on the HAZING-O-
METER® in the center of the
board. Each rolls the die three
times. Add up the number -
that’s the number of pledges
you got during rush.

Decide which player will go
ﬁrst by rolling the dice, arm
wrestling, arguing, etc. Each

player will take turns rolling
the die and moving his piece
that number of spaces.

Follow what it says on the
space. lfyou land on a HAZING
square, pick a HAZING card.
Move your marker on the
HAZING-O-M ETER® accordingly.
If you reach “unbearable" on
the hazing-o-meter, someone
will rat you out and the house
will be closed by the
administration and the entire
house expelled. You may start
again, with 0 brothers.

alternate version:

DRINKING

PLEDGES!-l|P!!!®

the homegame

Grasp this copy of Ring-tum
Phi ﬁrmly in left hand. With
right hand, tear the paper in
half. Crumple it up and throw
it in the garbage. Go to the
Palms and get blitzed.

A . '
O O. . O O
I‘OO" .‘ 0
IO ‘
0'0 ‘ O

‘coo-co‘ 0 0

.LAsT WORD

 

JANUARY 17,2000

cards Cut out these cards for use with PI.£DG£SHlP.'.I.I® the home game.

41, .
“f1’1?.__________.,

| VACUUM CLEANERS I
ISit pledges at table with a bottle of I
IBeam. Tell them that no one can I
|leave their chair until the bottle is I
| finished. When they eventually throw I
| up all over the table, come back with I
|spoons. Tell them that no one can I
|leave until the table is cleaned. |
| hazing +1 |
LZMMMMMMZMMMMIJ

FMMMZZMMMMMMMI1

GOOKIE COOKIE
Stand pledges in a circle with a
cookie in the middle. Have all the
pledges pleasure themselves onto
the cookie. The last one to finish
eats it.
hazing +1

I CRAWL SPACE WITH

I
I THE CHICKEN '
I Real old-schoolestyle hazing from :
I back in the day. Pledges have to |

spend a weekend in the crawl space
I with a chicken. At the end, they have I
to bite the head off the chicken. I
hazing +1 :
-I

LMMMMMMMMMMMM’

Tear Night. Mixer with campus’
Uh oh! 7 pledges loosest sorority!
go to inﬁm1aryl LOSE ONE TURN
GO TO BUDDY’S while

OFFICE, DO NOT “entertaining”
PASS INITIATION. them.

Entire pledge class
arrested during Lex
SWAT team raid on
pledgeclass “drug
night.”

LOSE ALL PLEDGES

The frat across the
street heard screams
coming from your
basement during Hell
Week and turned you
in.

GO TO BUDDY’S
OFFICE, DO NOT
PASS INITIATION.

Pick up two guys who said “I
don't need to join a frat, I've
already got friends” at the
rush dinners but realized
soon after tear night that
nobody on their hall hangs
out with them anymore and
that all their “friends” In
fraternities who were so
nice to them all fall term. . .
they were only rushing.

00

‘$6

/4l%zi14g I
Gzztnlsl :

0
O
V‘
HAZING-O-METER®

SMOKING NIGHT
Pledges are locked in a room with
a box of cigars. They are not
allowed to leave or open a window
until the entire box is smoked.
hazing +1

FMMMMMMMMMMM1

I GET OUT OF BUDDY’S I

OFFICE FREE!
Keep this card. Return the card to
the pile when you use it.

LMMMMMMMMMMMJ

FMMMMMMMMMMM1

I SPACE INVADERS I

I (or “ARKANOID”) |
Pledges move from side to side while I
making bleeping electronic noises.I
Brothers hurl solid objects at them.
The Brothers win when an the
pledges are knocked down. PledgesI
never win. I

I hazing + 1 I

PMMMMMMMMMMM1

CATTLE PRODS I

I’ll bet you haven’t seen Texans cry I
like that since the Alamo!
hazing +1

LMMMMMMMMMMM

ELEPHANT WALK
TOO DISGUSTING TO
MENTION, EVEN FOR THE
LAST WORD! -
hazing +2

| CAR BATTERIES ON |

I THE NIPPLES I
I The title is self-explanatory. Not I
I just for mob torture anymore! I
I Yeouchl I
I hazing +1 I
I
I
I
ul

PM

BUDDY’S
OFFICE
Buddy won’t
Pick up four A pledge drinks ﬁnish grilling
losers in deferred brothers under the ‘a, you unmyou ,0“
rush. table and himself 5 a six on the die.
+4 PLEDGES into a coma. Two rolls a tum
— V1 PLEDGE
Visiting

Barbara

nazi torture sﬂeisand
marine Chamber concert

unl7mml>le/

Pledgeclass raid on
rival house nets
their charter, their
coat of arms, four
composites, and a
bottle of SoCo.
House rep goes up.
ROLL AGAIN

Four pledges lost
somewhere on
the East Coast
during drunken
scavenger hunt
—- 4 PLEDGES

Two pledges drop
down to a 0.004 GPA
this term.

-2 PLEDGES

During a pledgeship
activity inspired by

+2 PLEDGES
mild medium barbaric

Pledge quits due to

financial reasons

(i.e. he’s through

buying his friends)

—1 PLEDGE
gammy DW666 .’ZfJBB
Dinner for two: $43.54. Win big brawl Pledgeclass
Tux rental: $54.00. against rival midterm grades
Tickets: $80.00. house, your rep holding steady at
Hey fellas. Slnce you're on campus goes 0.53, you're forced .
just paying for Sex. why up. to initiate now.
not save money and ROLL AGAIN. GO TO INITATION.

get a hooker?

“Die Hard III,’’ a pledge
is mauled to death for
wearing a “Dave
Matthews sucks” t-
shirt on the Colonnade
-— 1 PLEDGE

Representative

LEE-HI

from yourfrat’s Three Pledges

N t‘ 1 contract deadly _
Hgaldgfiarters 3TD’5 after Partil Free parkmg'
comes by with roadcheese. Greasy f°°d' L°I‘°’
LOSE one TURN. — 3 PLEDGES °f "°°""

 

it '5

SS
I"?-SP

 

 

   

7

73. 755

_..P

N

I
at
C.

U112 ﬂing-tum 10

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 
  
 
 

._ _. v - . . ‘ = .
WA3f1lu-;<_1 TON & LEE Ugiivﬁegsnrrf .
l':.Xli\IGTC'N_ VA 24450

Jhl 282000

i

VOLUME 102, No.18

Mock Convention
countdown begins

Organizers scurry to nail down last-
minute details as Friday’s event nears

By Polly Doi g

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Four days before the first Session
of Washington and Lee University’s
Mock Convention opens, students
are still playing basketball in the gym-
nasium that will become the scene of
speeches, voting and predicting.

One might question whether the
convention will actually happen.

In fact, setup for Mock Con will
not begin until Wednesday, when vir-
tual nonstop construction of the
stage will begin based on a time-con-
trolled plan.

According to co-facilities chair-
man Christopher Ball, “we have to
convert the Wamer Center into a con-
vention hall in approximately 30
hours.”

The process will include setting up
more than 1,500 folding chairs, in ad-
dition to sound equipment, comput-
ers, the stage and a balloon drop. The
setup process, however, is not the
only one that still remains for Mock
Con planners. Many of the media
contacted have yet to conﬁrm that

they will come.

“The thing that’s been difﬁcult for
us is that Mock Con falls in between

By Ann Whitam

STAFF WRITER

Last Wednesday night, students,
faculty, and Lexington residents
gathered in the GHQ for a night of
jazz, free coffee, and a respite from
that lingering isolation we often
sense here in Lex Vegas, where the
only other coffee shop in town closes
at 5:30 p.m.

Put together in just two weeks
time, “Java at the GHQ” is a new
Wednesday night alternative to par-
ties, the Co-op, or studying for that
matter. The brainchild of Dr. Jane
Horton, the weekly coffee house is
partially funded by a grant from the
Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control.
Through the grant, the ABC hopes
to reduce binge and underage drink-
ing on college campuses around the
state. Student Activities was able to
match the grant amount with funds
from the school budget.

Sipping on gourmet coffee from
Royal Cup Coffee of Birmingham,
the audience listened to the jazz of
professor of music Terry Vosbein,
senior Josh Harvey, UVA senior Rob
Hubbard, and Pete Davis.

Professor of music Dr. Gordon
Spice thinks the coffee house is a

the Iowa caucus and the New Hamp-
shire primary, and the State of the
Union address is the night before the
ﬁrst session,” Eddy said. “A lot of
TV stations simply don’t have the
manpower to cover bot .”

In spite ofthe conﬂictive timing,
however, several members of the me-
dia have conﬁrmed that they will
come. According to Eddy, The
Roanoke Times, WSLS, The Dallas
Morning News, and most of the wire
services have sent confirmation. Time
magazine will ﬁrm up their plans on
Tuesday, as well as many of the net-
works (_including the elusive C-SPAN
and MSNBC) who will wait until later
in the week to ﬁnalize their plans.

In addition, general chairman Mark
Schweppe hints at a surprise “visit”
by a candidate, which will take place
during the third session.

Schweppe also asks that delegates
be on time for each session, and re-
main seated while speakers have the
ﬂoor.

Although there is still much to be
done and several elements that will
contribute to Mock Con’s success are
uncertain, Eddy says that the Mock
Con team remains conﬁdent.

“It’s all going to come together.”

nice alternative to his usual
Wednesday nights, “and I always
want to come out and support the
musicians.” Music majors Hillary
Bryant and Hampton Pasley agree.
“We dig Terry Vosbein!”

Among the students who
stopped in, freshman Jane Ledlie
said that, “it’s a good break for those
of us who can’t go out. It’s much
better than the Co-op!”

Senior Hillary Everist agreed and
added, “I think it’s great to have fac-
ulty here to talk to in a relaxed atmo-
sphere. And it’s the only good cof-
fee place open in town this late.”

“Java at the GHQ” will be open
8:30p.m-1 :00a.m.

Compared to The Ruse, the cof-
fee house on Nelson Street that
closed this past fall, many actually
prefer “Java at the GHQ.

“I think it might do better than
The Ruse,” said Hillary Everist. “It’s
much closer.”

Dean of F.reshman Mark
Dahlhouse claimed, “The Ruse was
okay.”

“It was kind of dirty,” added se-
nior Kelly Stewart. “And expensive.”

Over-priced coffee, cappuccino,
and hot chocolate are things that
“Java at the GHQ” customers will not

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2000

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

THE CLOCK TICKS: Kirk Garrett, Mark Schweppe, Dave Dardis, and Carolyn Richardson gather around one of the computers in
the Mock Con office working on a few last minute details.

Coffee house exceeds expectations
Wednesday night’s “Java at the GHQ” deemed a great success

have to worry about. “Thanks to the

grant money and Royal Cup’s dona_-, , ,

tion of all the equipment, we can af-
ford to price everything from $.75-
$1.85.” says Dr. Horton.

Student Activities Marjorie
Schiff has various bands and two
Outing Club Slide Shows lined up
for the coming weeks. “But I would
like to see this become a place where
students provide the entertainment.
Either a student band, a poetry read-
ing, a comedian, or even the IFC rent-
ing the place out for a pledge activ-
ity. Mindbending Productions is
also excited about putting on shows
here since The Ruse closed.”

Juniors Heather McDonald and
Matt Herman are the student man-
agers of “Java at the GHQ.” Both
have previous experience working in
coffee shops. McDonald said that
she was “absolutely thrilled” with
the turnout.

“It went far and above my expec-
tations. I expected to See a majority
of freshman and sophomores, but
the group that came was much more
diverse.”

“The turn-out was excellent,”
Herman agreed. “Hopefully we’ll
see just as many folks there next
week.”

  

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

COLD, HARD AND WET. Two students take a break from school work, and pummel each other with
snowballs in front of Graham-Lees dormitory after Wednesday night’s snowfall.

  

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
MOCHA OR LATTE? Freshmen Sarah Sager, Janet Carter, Vicky
Balestriere, and Susan Woodward sip on coffee, eat desserts, and
discuss philosophy during “Java at the GHQ’s” opening night.

‘‘20/20’’ to
land in Lex

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

John Stossel, correspondent for
ABC’s “20/20,” and “The John Stossel
Specials,” is coming to Washington
and Lee University next week.

Stossel will speak in Lee Chapel on
Tuesday, Feb. 1, at 7 p.m. Titled “Pan-
dering to Fear: The Media’s Crisis
Mentality,” the speech willaddress the
validity of society’s criticisms of his
own profession. Does the media re-
ally blow issues out of proportion?

“We’ve very excited to have Stossel
speak,” said Contact chairperson Eliza-
beth Harvey. “He’s known for an atypi-
cal perspective on the media.”

Stossel joined “20/20” in 1981 and
began doing primetirne specials in 1994.

Stossel has won 19 Emmy Awards
and been honored five times for excel-
lence in consumer reporting by the
National Press Club. _

The specials, which have consis-’
tently rated among the top news pro-:
grams when aired, have brought
Stossel critical acclaim. The Dallas
Morning News called him “the most
consistently thought-provoking TV
reporter ofour time.”

 

 
 

 

    

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi
January 24, 2000

OPINION:
What the hell is Mock Con?

PAGE 2
MOCK CON SPECIAL

A preview to this weekends events

PAGES 3-6

SPORTS:
Tough times on the road

PAGE 7
LAST WORD:
Mock Con Induces nausea

PAGE 8

   
  
  

  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   

   

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor
STRESSED OUT: Ben Thompson
works feverishly on last minute
Mock Con work, see inside.

—é -

 

  
  

PAGE 2

 

(ﬂip: iaing-tum iﬂlii

PINION

JANUARY 24, 2000

1,001 things that irritate

me: Speed freaks

Every child, I imagine, has been
well informed about the Tortoise and
the Hare. And, I would assume that

most semi-intelligent kids are able to ,

gather the intended message from it —
you know, “slow and steady wins the
race.” Complaint #3 from yours truly is
more of a request than a gripe; I motion
to have this allegory
banned perma-
nently from the cur-
riculum in Lexington
schools. . . wait,
make that all schools in the South.

Before you peg me as book-bumer,
hear me out and perhaps you will sec-
ond this motion. The problem is that it
appears this ‘speed isn’t everything’
idea has been taken to the extreme in
and around Metro-Lex.

Since when does it take 15 min-
utes to make a junior Frosty? Why
does mail take 10 times as long to get
to Lexington than it does to leave?
Why does it take 45 minutes to order
a drink at The Palms and twice as long
to get it at Spanky’ s? Need I ask why
movies in Lexington are video re-
leases everywhere else? Why does
that take so long? Why does it take
20 minutes stopping at every blasted
trafﬁc light to get down Main Street?
And, do not even get me started on
Lexington drivers!

The frightening thing is that this
lethargy is all—consuming and se-
verely contagious. Civilized students
all around campus rejoiced at the pros-
pect of the new Applebee’s restau-
rant. “At last!” they cried, “a real res-
taurant” (forget the fact that I person-
ally would never even have consid-
ered my local, Chicago Applebee’s a
dining option, but I too joined in the
elation when this establishment
opened its doors earlier this year).

Oh, but Generals! We were so
desperately blinded by our delight
that we failed to recognize that, na-
tional chain or not, this was Lexing-
ton! Translation: service is still slow
and sluggish because though the
name exudes normalcy, the employ-

  
 

'”“~.~.

 
     

  Katy Harding ’01

ees remain students of the Tortoise.

V And you would think that all this de-
liberative, unhurried action produces
thorough, quality results? Um. . . no.
Applebee’s still cannot understand that
a Diet Coke with no ice means you
don’t put ice in the glass regardless of
how long they ponder the request.

Who do I
speak to about
this anyway? Is
there no one who
will claim respon-
sibility for this disorganization and tor-
por? Who, at Kroger, decides to open
only one register on Friday aftemoons
when every social-minded fraternity
guy will be there? Why does-Subway
only have one sandwich artist work-
ing on Sunday evenings?

Don’t think that we as students are
immune to this inﬁltration of indolence,
however. I am regularly caught strid-
ing behind THE SLOWEST WALK-
ERS ON EARTH right here on the Hill.
You know who these people are and I
am not talking about gaping
prospectives and their parents. This
species of student is a herd animal,
often traveling in packs, allowing them
to increase their effectiveness at slow-
ing down everyone else simply be-
cause they leave no alternative space
to pass. They meander down the Col-
onnade and bumble through the Co-
op, causing trafﬂc jams like Lexington
has never seen.-.

I am not suggesting that I am racing
to get to class, but there is no reason on
this earth why I should have to hover in
the rain because some students have
chosen to hold the next Rumor Mill

‘ meeting in the middle of Stemmon’s Plaza

during the passing period.

The easygoing attitude character-
istic of Lexington and the South lends
certain quaintness to the place. The
peaceful silence of inactivity is some-
what welcome when you want to sit
back and relax after a hectic day in
class. However, I do not think that it
was necessary to take this idea and run
with it. . . or amble slowly along with it.

/Eiuote of the Week:

((

If you’re going to be noisy, get

a hotel room.

—— Anonymous girl

@112 ilitng-tum iﬂlti

J}

It’s Mock Con time!

What the hell is Mock Con?

Does anyone even know what
they’re excited about? Of course we’re
all aware of the enthralling keynote
speaker and the pending C-SPAN cov-
erage. Honestly,
all Ireally know is
that I’ m sup-
posed to be
nauseauously
drunk and ride on a ﬂatbed waving a
ﬂag from a state that l’ve only been to
for a few -hours. I more excited about
not having to go to history class on
Friday than hearing Bill Bennett speak.

I’m also teed off because New Jer-
sey (my home state) has better seat-
ing than my delegation. At least I get
to sit in front of Guam. I love the fact
that this school appropriates hun-
dreds of thousands of dollars just so
the students can try not to throw up
on national television. I also contend
that everyone who joined a state that
start with an “A” just to be closer to
the cameras should be smacked. Here’s
another little teaser, C-SPAN hasn’t
even conﬁrmed coverage yet. I’m will-
ing to bet that if this whole debauchery
isn’t televised, the Warner Center is go-
ing to be more deserted than a study
skills class on a Friday night.

However, at least this is another

What the hell is Mock Con anyway?

 

 Soon to be 5th year
 Taylor Ruilova ’00

Executive Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Layout Editor

Polly Doig
Michael Crittenden
Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Lisa Lin

Dave Hanson
Tiffany Friedel
Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum

Java @ GHQ. . . When I first heard about the plan I
wondered how it could ever compare to my old haunt, the
Ruse. The Ruse was a coffee house in the truest sense of
the word, full of
music and po-
etry, big bowls of
coffee, and inter-
esting characters
that are indig-
enous to coffee houses. The GHQ on the other hand, is a
place associated with lunch and dinner and the university
meal plan. (Really good quesadillas though.) Could coffee
ever come to the GHQ in it’s full glory? Apparently. . . yes.

Before the evening, co-manager and general partner in
crime Matt Herman and I were discussing how nervous we
were. About the only thing we could say was, “I hope

   

   
   

A

« '1.
A k

‘ Heather McDonald ‘O1

 

V Coffee Talk

otherwise independent.

libel and obscenity.

Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬂce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w1u.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

“Freezing my nipples off and
showing off my guns."

people come. I hope the coffee’s good. I hope everything’s
cool.” After the ﬁrst hour, there were people pouring into

TALI{back...What’s the best part about pledgeship?

-Alex Poor ’03

“The cookies."

time—honored W&L tradition that en-

courages youth alcoholism. In acknow-

ledgement of our patronage, Jim Beam

bourbon has issued the Mock Conven-

tion commemerative fifth. l’m also sure

that the majority of the state ﬂoats are

going to incorpo-

rate some type of
oversized bottles

of booze or giant

cans ofNatty. I’m

sure the good people of Lexington are

going to appreciate having the bustling

streets of town tied up for hours for the

parade and the elephant sh** and vomit

cleanup afterwards. Students are more

likely to remember getting their stom-
achs pumped at Stonewall than any-

thing Bob Dole says.

I”m not saying that I’m going to sit
out for all the festivities, on the con-
trary, I plan to be drunkenly touting
my Republican pride. I do have a prob-
lem, however, with such a costly affair
that nine out of 10 people are clueless
about. All this event really is is an ex-
cuse for students to yet again embarass
their parents with their alcohol problems,
but this time it’s televised. Well, here’s
to Mock Con, so tip back the Beam and
try not to fall off the ﬂoat. Oh, and morn
and dad, please excuse me in advance
for trying to imitate Dole’s arm on stage
in my drunken stupor.

the University Center to get coffee, listen to good jazz
and just to see what the whole endeavor was about. All
Matt and I could do was stand at the espresso machine
and make drinks and smile. Our estimates showed that
there were about 300 people in and out through the
evening. Maybe it’s beginner’s luck, but what a rush.
My experience with coffee shops is probably anything
but positive. I’m used to customers getting mad about the
amount of foam on their skirn-2 pumps of vanilla—latte and
threatening to throw it at me. To be able to see the real
essence of a coffee house instead of the morning commuter
java-stop I’m used to is wonderful. If all works well, this idea
of a campus coffee house will be incorporated into the Uni-
versity Commons once it is built. This coffee house would
have full coffee house facilities, couches and comfy.chairs,
yet would still have the convenience of being on campus.
The next few weeks will be the real test, on whether
people come and continue to support Java @ the Q. W&L

-Kristen Mandaglio ’03 my pledge trainer."

—Betsy Ely ‘03

 

“The great upperclassmen and

.“$»"

 

photo courtesy of Leybu Library Special Collections

1968 MOCK CONVENTION: W&L student works on a ﬂoat
in preparatidn for the Mock Con parade.

Good coffee and more found at Java @ Q

students have a bad rap for being apathetic, for simply work-

ing hard and partying hard. The students who showed up 1
last Wednesday night proved that image is incorrect, at 1

least with some of the population, and hopefully they and
more will keep showing up.

What was so impressive was the mix of people who
showed up: Greeks and independents, freshmen and se-
niors. . . the mix was truly a mix, which we all know is a rare
occurrence at W&L. Some people l’ve talked to say that it
won’t last. I know there are a lot of strikes against us. Yes,
the program is on-campus, and it is a university program.
No one will have stories about Java @ the Q that start off
with “One night when I was really drunk...”

Instead, there might be some good music and interest-
ing conversation. You can chill with friends, or do home-
work somewhere other than the library. And, of course, you
can enjoy great coffee and (soon to be famous) hot choco-
late. What more could you want? See you Wednesday.

 

“I love my pledge trainer. . . I am
a happy PiKA pledge."
-Jason Smee ’03

 

 

Ellie ilttng-tum lﬂlti

OCK

 

CON 2000

SPECIAL MOCK CONVENTION PULLOUT

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

JANUARY 28 - 29, 2000

Predicting a president: .Mock Cn gears up ;

Delegates, politicians, and maybe an elephant or two will
gather to see if students’ research will produce results

By Elianna Marziani
FEA TURESEDITOR

Washington and Lee University is four days away
from celebrating one of its most exciting events, the
famed quadrennial Mock Convention. In past years,
Mock Con has gained a national reputation, being
named “one of the nation’s oldest and most presti-
gious mock conventions” by The Washington Post
and “a serious attempt to

eas and get a feel for public opinion in those areas.
By conducting careful and precise research, stu-
dents are able to gauge the nation’s sentiments and
predict its choice for the out—of-office presidential can-
didate, rather than merely nominating a person that
they, as a fairly limited and unrepresentative body,
would select independently. This meticulous research
is what sets W&L’s Mock Convention apart and makes
it what Harry Truman called “a real convention.”
The chairmen of the

predict how the profes- convention were selected
tsrixonals Vi]/illlline up when MOCK CON SUCCESS RATE: in 1990, tshe regti)on2:l9;Ifi;-
e rea t ing comes rectors in eptem er ,
along” by Newsweek. Ev-  f0RRECT w”:wIL”':I" JENNINGS BRYAN the state chairs the
eryone has heard the NCOR(Rv[é]Cl:S:::ECUE[:::: T::r::lNAn0N) middle of last year, the
hype, seen the posters, ’ officers of delegations
and paid his $20 to get  EOERECTWWCMMESEVMSHUGHES second semester last
onto the floor: now what 1924 C3 OWETION H3”) W D year, and the delegations
exactly IS Mock Con? I‘928 COHRECTWITH A0"; ' AVIS themselves in the fall of
The W&L Mock Con- 1932 CORRECT WHHFIISRITIITH 1999. Last year, Mock Con
vention is an event in “E "H ' ' Chairman Mark
which Student body del_ 1936 INCERRECT wiTH AURTHUR VANDENBERG Schweppe said, “We
egates make a prediction 1940 INC(0::::rNv::r:Eg::RTL:: EOIIVQIEQTAIES) hope to have, by the time
as to whom the out-of-of- ’ the convention takes
fice party will nominate as (WXLKIE RECEIVED THE NOMINATION) place . . . close to 90 per-
. . . . 1944 N 0 CONVENTION HELD .
its presidential candidate 1948 INCORRECT WITH VANDENBERG cent [of students] in-
for the year’s election. (DEWEY RECEIVED THE NOMINATION) Volved in some way or
Traditionally, Mock Con another.” '
has been a uniquely accu_ 1952 CORRECTWITH DwiGHT EisENHowER NOW he Says “I think
. . 1956 CORRECT WITH ADLAI STEVENSON ,
rate predictor of the ulti- 1960 CORRECT J F KE we re well over 90 percent
mate candidate, named Wm‘ OHN ' NNEDY at this point. There are
.. - , 1964 CORRECT WITH BARRY G0LDwATER
the nation s most accu- 1,660 student delegates,
. ,, 1968 CORRECT WITHRICHARD Nix0N , .
rate mock convention by and that doesn t include
. . 1972 lNCoRREcr WITH EDWARD M. KENNEDV .
United Press International (MCGOVERN RECEIVED THE NOMINATION) the 28 member steering
in 1976. As the conven— 1976 CORRECT WITHJIMMY CARTER committee or the 55 state
tion is usually held in andterritory chairmen.
March before most ofthe 1980 CO CTWITH RONALD REAGAN Don’t let anyone fool
’ . 1984 CORRECT WITH WALTER MONDALE . . .
state conventions, Mock you into thinking that
C 1988 CORRECT wiTH MICHAEL DUKAKIS .
on serves as a true pre- Mock Con is merelyatwo-
dic-tor ofthe nominee, not  §(?l§ll:l§g,:w'm]l:[LLI():LImoN day event on Jan. 28th
merely a reﬂection ofwhat WITH OB OLE and 29th. The celebration

is already commonly

P known. The students’ desire to truly make Mock Con a

predictor was reﬂected this year when they switched
the date for Mock Con from March to January, in order
to remain in the forefront of election predictions and
notjust a stale repetition ofthe results of various other
polls and primaries.

To ensure a correct prediction, students conduct
grassroots research at the state and local levels. Five
regional coordinators supervise 55 state and territory
chairmen, who are responsible for forming committees
to contact officials and citizens of their respective ar-

Parade full of ﬂoats, wrestlers and elephants, oh

By Elianna Marziani
FEA TURES EDITOR

Coming soon to Lexington: skiiers, surfers, wrestlers,
hula dancers, bagpipes, a mariachi band, and an African
elephant. This could only be a Mock Con parade.

For more than 20 years, the Mock Convention has

), sponsored a parade preceding the actual convention, and

this year is no exception. Junior biology major Spencer
Liles has been working for almost a year as Parade Chair-
man to coordinate this Mock Convention’s parade, and

_ from all accounts, the work will be evident in the event.

Each delegation is required to submit a ﬂoat in the

_ parade, so there should be 55 ﬂoats representing the 50
;_ states and five territories that have Votes in the primary.
‘ Each state was required to spend at least $85 on its ﬂoat,

I’

has been a year—long
event to take hold ofthe student body and get it inter-
ested and excited in the changes in national politics
and its role in these changes. It began with the Spring
Kick-off April 26-28 last year. Mock Con hosted a Presi-
dential Issues Forum, a media panel made up of such
notables as Howard Feinman, Bill Schneider, Jim
Barnes, and Howard Cook, an address by Lamar
Alexander, and in cooperation with the Student Ac-

SEE ‘CONVENTION’ ON PAGE 4

but several delegations have gone above and beyond
the minimum to ensure a wonderful representation of their
state in the parade.

The Minnesota delegation, led by sophomores Neely
Baker and Alicia Brandt, is putting together a ﬂoat made
into a wrestling ring. They plan on having a World Wres-
tling Federation theme. The wrestling ring ﬂoat will carry
people dressed up as wrestlers, staging a fight between
Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura (an ex-professional
wrestler) and Texas Republican hopeful George W. Bush,
complete with a referee and announcer. There are 34 del-
egates, and Brandt hopes that they will all show up to
help build the ﬂoat. The delegation is devoted to making
their ﬂoat great, and plans on spending about $200 on it.

Liles said that the Washington, D.C. delegation is plan-
ning, under the direction of juniors Liz Borges and Emily

 

photo courtesy of Leybum Librarys Special Collection s

The 1952 parade, which was held in April, featured a fire truck decorated with toilet paper.

photo courtesy Ley burn Library Special Collections

DELEGATES at the 1972 Democratic Mock Convention committed a rare error, and mistakenly
nominated Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. George McGovern received the nomination.

Ramey, on creating a humorous ﬂoat
based on Bill Clinton and his White
House experiences, but he did not
want to reveal all of their secrets.

Other promising ideas include the
Virginia delegation’s “Virginia is for
lovers” theme, North Carolina’s Andy
Griffith theme, the Utah delegation’s
plan to drag snow skiiers behind them,
and the Hawaii delegation’s trailing
surfers.

These delegations will compete
with all the others for first, second
and third place honors in the Most
Humorous and Best Overall catego-
ries; the judges will include president
John Elrod and possibly Mimi Elrod,
professor of accuonting ' Lyn
Wheeler, and Brenda Hartless of the
Co-op. Winners will receive trophies
and recognition in the first session
of Mock Convention on Friday mom-
ing.

The hour-long parade will begin
Friday morning at 10:30 at Brewbaker
Field, the Lexington public ﬁeld be-
hind the hospital. It will then curve
onto Main Street, travel from Main
Street to Washington Street, head
west toward the W&L campus, and
end on the Baker—Davis-Gilliam quad.
The ﬂoats will then travel up to the
Ruins to disassemble.

While the ﬂoats appear to be quite
promising, they are only one part of
the parade. Liles has also secured a
few horse groups to come in, includ-
ing the Victorian Sidesaddle Society.
The Lexington Fire Department is
bringing a few engines to the parade,
as well. Miss Virginia, Crystal Lewis,
will be a guest of honor in the parade,
riding in a horse-drawn carriage
through the streets of Lexington. A

SEE ‘PARADE’ ON PAGE 6

 

my!

425. r ' 7* *

 

A;

photo courtesy of Leybum Library Special Collections

’BAMA!: Members of the Alabama delegation get rowdy with
the excitement of Mock Convention 1960. The Convention
correctly predicted John F. Kennedy, Jr. as the Democratic
Party’s nominee.

 

 

PAGE 4

MOCK

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlri

CON 2 O 0 0 

Key Republican leaders to headline Mock Convention

J.C. Watts, Jr. is currently serving his third term in the
U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Watts serves in the
fourth highest—ranking Republican position in the U.S. House
as House Republican Conference Chairman. As a demon-
stration of his inﬂuence, Rep. Watts was selected to give
the Republican Response to President Clinton’s 1997 State
of the Union Address. Watts attended the University of
Oklahoma where he after quarterbacking the Sooners to
consecutive Big Eight Championships and Orange Bowl vic-
tones.

William J. Bennett is one of our nation’s most informed
and well-respected advocates of education reform. While
currently serving as a Co—Director for Empower America in
Washington, DC, Dr. Bennett has served as Secretary of
Education and Chairman of the National Endowment for
the Humanities under President Reagan and Director of
the Ofﬁce of National Drug Control Policy under President
Bush.

Gov. Frank Keating was reelected in 1998 and became
only the second governor in Oklahoma history to win a
second consecutive term. In 1985 he accepted appoint-
ment as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, and later
served as Associate Attorney General. In 1990, he joined
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Jack Kemp
as General Counsel and Acting Deputy HUD Secretary.

.«.»:.. ‘- ’ 

Q‘ 

photo courtesy Ley burn Library Special Collections

AMERICAN GOTHIC: The Nebraska ﬂoat in 1968.

Gov. Keating currently serves as Chairman of the Republi-
can Governors’ Association and sits on the Executive Com-
mittee of the National Governors’ Association.

Congressman Bob Goodlatte is currently serving his
fourth term as the Co-Chairrnan of the bipartisan Congres-
sional Intemet Caucus and the Chairman of the House
Republican High Technology Working Group. Goodlatte
has been a leader in Congress on a number of Internet and
high—tech issues including encryption, piracy prevention,
anti—counterfeiting, online service provider and copyright
liability, to name a few. Congressman Goodlatte also serves
on the Judiciary Committee and the Agriculture Commit-
tee.

Jim Nicholson was re-elected to a second two-year tenn
as Republican National Committee (RNC) Chairman in Jan.
1999. During his first term, the RNC enjoyed record-break-
ing fundraising success, and Nicholson emerged with a
reputation for consensus building and focusing on the
issues that unite all Republicans. Nicholson also served
as the Colorado National Committeeman on the RNC for
the past 12 years where he led from a variety of assign-
ments including chairing the RNC’s Rules Committee, serv-
ing on the budget committee, and representing the West-
ern States as RNC Vice-Chainnan. As a small businessman

2:00 National Anthem
2:05 Invocation V
2: 10 Call for Convention
2:15 Credentials Committee Report
2:20 Rules Committee Report
2:25 Election of Permanent Chairmen
-General
-Personnel
—Political
2:30 Opening Remarks
-General Chair
-Personnel Chair
-Political Chair
2:45 Address from the University
2:55 Greetings from Lexington

3:20 Address

3:40 Address

4:05 Parade Award Winners
4:20 Benediction

4:25 Adjournment

.4
5

3 :05 Address from the Advisory Board
Mayor Bret Schundler (Jersey City, NJ)

and veteran of Republican politics at the local, state, and
national, Nicholson now serves in the Republican Party’s
top leadership post.

Sen. William E. Brock ‘53 has served in numerous
public service capacities. He began his career as a repre-
sentative for the third district ofTennessee (1963-1970) in
the House of Representatives and then held one term as a
senator from 1971 to 1976. Following these two positions,
Brock was elected Chairman of the Republican National
Committee from 1977 to 1980 and served as a U.S. Trade
Representative from 1981 to 1985. In addition, Sen. Brock
acted as the Secretary of Labor from 1985-1987 under Presi-
dent Reagan.

Time magazine considers Mayor Bret Schundler one
of America’s most promising young leaders. At the age of
33, Bret Schundler became the first Republican to be elected
Mayor in Jersey City since the First World War. In 1997, he
was re-elected in his second landslide victory to Jersey
City’s longest serving mayor in 30 years: all in a city that
was 65 percent minority, largely working—class, and only 6
percent Republican. Nationally, Mayor Schundler is best
known as a leader in the ﬁght for parental choice in educa-
tion and as a defender of religious liberty. Reader ’s Digest,
The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Wash-
ington Post, and Parade Magazine have all proﬁled Mayor

Schundler. He has appeared on public affairs television
programs ranging from “The Charlie Rose Show” to “This
Week With David Brinkley.”

Recognized as one of the United States’ most promi-
nent ﬁgures of the 20th Century, Senator Bob Dole has a
distinguished record of public service that continues to
make a difference to Americans. As the Republican Presi-
dential nominee in 1996, Dole offered himself to Americans
as an honorable leader. Dole’s candidacy for the White
House cemented his reputation as an honest, respected
statesman who will long be considered one of the most
powerful legislators of our times. President Clinton awarded
him the Presidential Medal of Freedom as a tribute to his
character and contributions to the nation. Senator Dole
was also awarded the Department of Defense Medal for
Distinguished Public Service. Of Dole as Senate Majority
Leader, Ronald Reagan has said, “His title of Leader is not
just a job title, it’s a description of the man.” President
Bush called Senator Dole “a great Republican Leader, as
great as any in the past.” Bob Dole is one of only 16 Ameri-
cans to serve as Senate Majority Leader and his first stint
in that position in the mid-1980s won praise nationwide.
According to Congressional Quarterly, Senator Dole,
“proved a point that badly needed proving at the time: the
Senate could be led.”

SCHEDULE or EVENTS

Southern Comfort

9:10 Friday’s Keynote Address

FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 2000 SIMON H
10:30 am, Parade 7:15 PM Pre-Convention Entertainment, Wildgrass
7:30 Call to Order Dr. William F. Connelly, Jr.
51355.01»; 1 7:35 Invocation Rev. David Cox
1215 p.m. Pre-Convention entertainment Wildgrass 7340 TBA
1:45 p.m. Call to Order Dr. William F. Connelly, Jr. 8:00 Platform Address Chairman Jim Nicholson (RNC)
1:50 Presentation of Colors VMI Color Guard 3125 P1atf0l'm Commlttee ReP01T Heather Howard
1 :55 Pledge of Allegiance Capt. Robert Peniston 3330 Platf0ml Debate DaVld Dardis

Representative J . C. Watts (R-OK)

Rev. William Klein 9340 Belledleilml
Carolyn Richardson 9:45 Adjournment David Dardis
Malloy Evans
Kirk Garrett SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 2000
Kirk Garrett .
SEssioN III
8:30 a.m. Pre-Convention Entertainment
9:00 Call to Order Dr. William F. Connelly, Jr.
9:05 Presentation of Colors VMI Color Guard
Mark Schweppe 9:10 Pledge of Allegiance Brian Shaw
Juliet Bickford 9: 15 National Anthem TBA
David Dardis 9:20 Invocation Burr Datz
president John w, Elmd 9:30 Opening Address Rep. Bob Goodlatte
Mayor Buddy De;-rick 9:45 Address Secretary William Bennett

Hon. William E. Brock

Gov. Frank Keating (R-OK)

10:10 Keynote Address
10:40 Nominations for President
—Roll Call of the States

The Honorable Robert J. Dole

Spencer Liles Nominations for Vice-President
Rev. William Klein 12:40 pm apprx. Closing
Juliet Bickford 12:45 apprx. Benediction Burr Datz
Adjournment Mark Schweppe

‘CONVENTION’ FROM PAGE 3

tivities Board, Willie Nelson in concert.

This year, students came together in pre—Mock Con
excitement to enjoy the November Presidential Gala.
This Friday, the Mock Con weekend itselfwill begin at
10:30 a.m., when ﬂoats representing all of the states
will parade through the streets of Lexington, adding
to the air of excitement surrounding the convention.
The Convention will hopefully result in the seventh
consecutive and 17th overall correct prediction ofthe
presidential nominee, this time for the Republican party.

W&L students have been correct in 16 of 21 at-
tempts since 1908, when it was started. The first Mock
Convention occurred in reaction to the great interest
and excitement felt on campus when William Jennings
Bryan visited. Students decided to hold a mock Demo-
cratic convention, in which they elected Bryan as the
democratic candidate —~ a vote that was then repeated

at the Democratic National Convention, starting W&L
off on its prestigious political prediction path. While
some ofthe beginning conventions were clearly tainted
by students’ own political views and passions (the
1908 convention has become notorious for a ﬁght that
started on the ﬂoorl), since 1952 the conventions have
become much more research-intensive and hence much
more accurate. Only one prediction since 1952 has been
incorrect; in 1972, students chose Edward Kennedy
rather than George McGovern.

Some conventions have been tragic, such as the
1956 election in which former Vice President Alben
Barkley of Kentucky collapsed dead on-stage after de-
livering an exuberant and inspiring speech in the 90
degree convention weather.

Others have been humorous, such as the 1972 con-
vention when unknown Jimmy Carter, then governor

of Georgia, came to deliver the keynote address but
was abandoned by his press secretary Jody Powell
who had instead joined some W&L students and
alumni, andjoined them in playing pinball and drink-
ing beer on Main Street during the speech.

Some have been entertaining, such as the 1988 con-
vention when then Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton par-
tied with the students at a fraternity house, playing
his saxophone.

Some have been downright amazing, such as the
famed famed Mock Convention of 1924, in which stu-
dents correctly chose W&L alumnus John W. Davis,
someone who had not even declared candidacy.

All have been memorable. If the time and energy
put into it is any indication, this year’s will be no dif-
ferent.

      

  
 

  

 

photo courtesy of the Leybnin Library Special Collection

ELEPHANTS 0N PARADE: The 1964 Mock Convention Parade walks down Washington Street. The Parade is one of the most anticipated parts of the convention, because it lets students show their
delegation pride and also their levels of creativity in ﬂoat design.

 

  

I

t

  CON 2000 

_ The ﬂoor plan for Mock Con 2000

        

BLBCHERS (1250 SEATS)

 
 
 
 

 

    

 

~ Pl i3i‘———25——-"l|3|“‘—2°——’1

FILM MEDIA (16x8)

  

   

 
    

     

‘photo courtesy of the Leybrun Library Special Collection
The members of the Puerto Rico delegation

took things seriously and got into the island
spirit in 1960.

 
 

      

” l+————35——————-H+—15—-L 35————+i

|.____
V sTAGE&PoDIuM D D D U

SC & TABULATION PRINT MEDIA

 
 

 

 =»:~:v (-

.>

photo courtesy of the Leybmn Library Special Collection
ROCKEFELLER OR NIXON? A student gives a speech at the 1968 Mock Con. Mock Con gives many W&L

students leadership opportunities, mainly because the whole school is involved in every organizational aspect of
the convention.

 
 
     
  

 

@112 iﬂing-tum lﬁhi

MOCK

PAGE 6

CON 2 O O O 

THE WATERING HOLE

TmswHm:AgMa3Nba(C@qBma

elephants running through your skull. Elephants may
never forget, but drinking more than three of these
might cause you to forget your name, age, how to tie
your shoes and possibly gender. With this introduc-
tion, you may be thinking that this beer would be as

heavy as your Aunt Linda, but it is surpris-

ingly pale. The combination could prove

IMPORTED to be 
Once the brew emerges from

‘ 3 ‘ its rather stark and forbidding

I] the weak side. After the first
 ’  bottle, it appears to be a bit on
draught, however, it is readily

apparent that this is not ajoke.

.Even for larger individuals, who

are well experienced with the

darker sides of alcohol, this beer has

a definite kick. Honestly, Imported El-

ephant has bigger stones than the ma-

jority ofthe Republican party. For fans

of good head, you will not find it here

even though this is a Danish brew.

Despite the evident taste of hops, the

beer is smooth with a strong finish. This is

definitely a satisfying beer that eats like a

meal. The 7.2 percent

creeps up gradually leaving

7.2% Alcohol the consumer in a generally

bY V°'Ume good mood after a relatively

small (by W&L standards)

amount. The paleness ofthis lager conceals its hearty

body. Imported Elephant may not be the sexiest im-

port on the market but it is well suited for the events

of the upcoming week. This Carlsberg contender is

well worth the price of $6.70 and is available at the
Main Street Market.

By Taylor Ruilova & Michael Crittenden

BEER REVIEWERS

In the spirit of the drunkenness that Mock Con-
vention is said to entail, this week’s beer review took
to task the challenge posed by
one of Europe’s finest lagers,
Carlsberg Imported Elephant
beer. Named af-
ter the imposing
elephant statues
on the Elephant
Gate at
C a r 1 s b e r g ’ s
original brewery in
Copenhagen, Den-
mark, this is one of the
most popular beers in
the world. In England
alone, over one million
pints of Carlsberg are sold daily.
That’s about 23 pints a second. Ob-
viously the brewmasters at
Carlsberg are doing something right.

Not that I would question the_
Danes anyway, any country with
women that beautiful I’ll tend to trust
theirjudgment. Famous for the style
and grace from designers such as
Skagen, this well—crafted beer is like a
Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale, though not an ugly
duckling. Like the pachyderm on the label, this beer
has the ability to run you over, kick you in the ass,
and then stomp you on the chest. In fact, with an al-
cohol content of 7.2 percent, a night of drinking
Carlsberg will make you feel like you have a herd of

    
  

An Orson Welles’ Adaptation of Shakespeare

Feb- 4,5,7, ZOOO ' 8 p-I“n-
Feb- 6,  ° 2 p-n“i-

Kellen” _|_hc,-altirle ' Lonfost C<~i1tcrI‘

 "J.'.’. ‘..'..'>',!.

Directed by J. D. Martinez

.42-.» 131115....

K.— it  zsﬂ. v-ace ski: :oat13§;:x:t:2.b 2.»...

‘eﬁﬁaﬂi

   
 

,t.':2~_~.='m ‘-Zquccxg .  
' ‘ '. .
J. Si’-Id!"

 
    
   
    

 

g ‘.-jl3‘.’;.«Ln..’.t‘~‘*,,§g,->=. to
$tZ."('f3.7}T.‘, .'\*9$‘4 ‘ H ‘
. . _, _

   

  

2.‘

3 +3 ‘ 9" "“’
 W

    
  

  

.-_-.u_,g§_... -'

       
 
   
  
  

   
      

l

' -"  , ~'E5' : f:;1llr:':».‘n....i.*.3-"_,.."- ,l.*._‘fr.’~;-‘~'.~."“.5l‘-'
.   -‘w_5!‘.";-:m>l*1¢*«'<r. ' - . 'rl1x..‘{‘':.
;   ml} no §§..m;'-';.=r!
3. .g 2 ‘ .2-.-.Yw.' .- ~".u*.«.:¢-i.x'z -
,   =.‘:=:cl‘! in" eé?"§l3«r‘i"*
   2 . 2 2 -14% .
' w3mmmnur§*““me* ;

. l

“We.'re‘mare than lust hot dogs; we I‘
‘International wra ps aﬁéf’ " I”

1
‘Vi ".E§7»"A'J«". f'Il”!’U- .-‘3 ‘."Il1$'/‘:3’ .l':".vXl'Yf1.a~.€."

  
 
 
    
   

     
 

‘ﬁicgaivinllﬁ-'~;{‘l'  r. * '
» A a _ ‘ :4
-. - . t-.\w,;llr.~.'3:‘-“acv.

. ‘.0, "C-
; 2; ‘ - ~ ‘ ‘ . .~.-.“.-:wa*ae£

i 3w‘ Nelson St’ 3*7“""  .   

.3’ ‘
Lexington, VA 2445&:*‘t’:v 2:»-.*m:.rs:ooa.m. -.9:00p:m:  '
540-464-1501 I

~- as '=o3';s..t2m'='-" zrv'7_E 
Sat. -' l1:0Qa{m,,,.-.,, : lO%('»,"?.ﬁ1"'.i’:‘é.'§!‘!?3"

  

photo courtesy of Leybum Library Special Collection

MODERATE REPUBLICAN? A participant in the 1972 Mock Convention is a passive participant in
the the festivities. Mock Con is legendary among W&L students for its favorite mix of alcohol

and politics.

 

Stephanie Bianco
Indiana state Clrair

Nancy Dixon
Public Relations Clzair

Sarah Hall

Arkansas State Co-Chair

Jenny-Anne Kniesel
Oregon State Clzair

Karly Shallow
Utah State Clzair

Chi Omega Congratulates

 

All of Their Mock Convention Leaders

Amy Calce
Montana State Clzair

Erin Ferguson
New Mexico State Cliair

Heather Howard
Platform Clzair

Allison Ralston

Regional Coordinator

Mary Heather Welder
Memorabilia Clrair

 

 

JANUARY 24, 2000

 RT S

Road woes continue

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals
dropped to 0-8 on the road with two
more losses this week, falling 67-59 at
Emory and Hemy and 71-62 in a hard-
fought overtime battle at Eastern Men-
nonite. The Generals traded buckets
with the Wasps of Emory and Henry
for 38 minutes, only to let up in the
ﬁnal two minutes of the contest as they
were outscored 10-2.

Despite shooting only 38 percent
from the ﬁeld, the Wasps were able to
take advantage of 19 W&L turnovers
to help them emerge victorious. Jun-

, ior reserve Chad Braley was the only

General to reach the double-digit mark
in points, netting 11. Freshman
Toussaint Crawford and senior Walt
Plyler each contributed nine points in
the losing effort and senior Brian
Ricketts led the squad in rebounding
with_seven.

The Generals regulation heroics
turned into overtime blues Saturday
in their loss at Eastern Mennonite. The
Royals held a 57-54 advantage with
4.2 seconds remaining until junior Will
Ballard sank a leaning three pointer
with .9 seconds leﬁ on the clock. W&L
could not carry this momentum into
the extra frame, however, as EMU hit
10 of 14 free throws to claim a nine-
point victory.

"Aﬂer Will made that shot, I thought
we had the momentum," said senior
Scott Hudson. "But we got down early,

and they made their foul shots."

The Royals shot just 36 percent
from the ﬁeld and committed 25 tum-
overs, but went 33-44 from the charity
stripe to aid them in victory. Sopho-
more Bob Bustamante led the Gener-
als with 15 points, while Hudson tal-
lied 14 points and collected nine re-
bounds.

W&L now posts a 5-9 record over-
all, 4-7 in the ODAC. All ﬁve of their
wins have been at home.

“Obviously we play a lot better at
home," said Hudson. "But that's the next
step toward becoming a good team. We
have to learn to win on the road."

Hudson believes the Generals
started to play with the tenacity on
Saturday necessary to win on the road.
"We played with some passion defen-
sively, passion that's been lacking on
the road."

W&L hosts nationally top-ranked
Hampden Sydney Wednesday, a team

that blew them out the first timethey
met. "We deﬁnitely have a chance,"
continued Hudson. "We just have the
slow the game down, take off 25 or 30
seconds of the shot clock."

Wednesday’s game is the kickoff
for the Mock Convention weekend.
The ﬁrst 500 students through the
doors will receive a free Mock Con cup.
Mock Con will be giving away many
other promotional prizes at halftime

and throughout the game including a
VIP pass to the convention and din-
ner for two at The Wilson Walker
House. Tip-off is set for 7 p.m.

Strong start for indoor

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men's
and women's track programs came out
strong at Saturday aftemoon’s Leba-
non Valley Invitational.

No team scoring was kept at the
meet, but women’s head coach John
Tucker felt that the showing by the
Generals is a sign of good things to
come for the team.

“Saturday was a great day and a
good opener for the Generals,” Tucker
said. “We’re a young untested team
with a lot of potential.”

On the women's side, the Gener-
als took first place in two relay
events. The 4x200-meter relay team
of seniors Jill Kosch and Nancy
Dixon, junior Amy Calce, and sopho-

‘ more Melissa Palombo with came out

on top with a time of2:03.0 and the
4x800-meter relay of freshmen Burke
Duncan and Kelly Schlicter, junior

k Kathleen Moroney, and senior Au-

tumn Oczkowski won with a time of
10:38.6.

Junior Amy Calce placed second
in the longjump with ajump of 15' 5.5"

" and Schlicter took fourth place in the

1,500-meter run. Kosch also repeated
the stand out performance with a fourth
place fmish in the 400-meter dash.

For the men, junior Marc Watson
showed the speed that makes him an
incredible offensive threat on the foot-
ball ﬁeld by winning the 55-meter dash
event with a time of 6.5 seconds.

Watson, recovering from the mono-
nucleosis that sidelined him for much
of football season, took the race from
several Bridgewater runners.
Bridgewater has been dominant in that
event prior to Watson’s arrival on the
scene.

Freshman David Hicks took first in
the 1,500-meter, with a time of 4: 19.2,
and junior Chris Wahl took fourth in
the shot put with a toss of 38' 7". Se-
nior Hansell Pasco placed third in the
200-meter dash with a time of 25.0 sec-
onds.

W&L still has several weapons in
its arsenal that have not been revealed.

“A lot of great athletes didn’t get
off the bench Saturday and we’ve got
others that are still playing other
sports,” said Tucker.

W&L travels to Carlisle, Pa., on
Saturday to compete in the Dickinson
Invitational.

7 (Photo by Dave Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

OVER THE TOP: Junior heavyweight John Sensing overpowers
his opponent at the Washington and Lee Invitational Saturday.

W&L invites wrestlers

Washington and Lee sophomore
Ezra Morse won the 197-pound weight
class as the Generals placed fifth of
eight teams in the Washington and Lee
Invitational on Saturday afternoon at
the Warner Center.

Longwood College won the team
championship with 87 points and was
followed by Davidson (63), Washing-
ton & Jefferson (53.5), Scranton (52),
Washington and Lee (49.5),
Cumberland College (47), Pensacola
Christian (29), and Gallaudet (0).

Ian Kaplan of Davidson was named
the tournament's outstanding wrestler
after taking the 157-pound weight

class, the third time he has won his
weight class in the W&L Invitational.

Also putting together a solid per-
formance for W&L was junior Josh
Chamberlain, who ﬁnished second in
the l49—pound weight class.

Junior JeffPaul fell to Morse in the
championship of the l97—pound
weight class, fin_i_s_hing_as_ the runner-
up in that division, while junior John
Sensing placed third in the heavy-
weight division.

W&L is back in action on Saturday
when they travel to the Western Mary-
land Quadrangular.

—Courtesy of Sports Information

4-

 

‘I

  _  7”  
 iﬁ‘\"VVVR_‘i‘T.EA,iF"OR_::    .
T;  spams.   "1

1 'E-MIiit‘PHpi@wtu.EDu.' ; I

f—‘

$$$ EASY MONEY $$$

I will pay $40 for your
PHONE BOOK.

Call Lee Ramsey collect
(856) 577-7237

h~I.'4}f£.« our T]-

your life.

from your Army
Recruiter.

WE’ LL ERASE YOUR
COLLEGE LOAN.

If you’re stuck with a (federally insured)
student loan that’s not in default, the
Army might pay it off.

If you qualify, we’1l reduce your
debt—up to $65,000. Payment is
either ‘/3 of the debt or $1,500
for each year of service,
whichever is greater.

You’ll also have training
in a choice of skills and
enough self-assurance

to last you the rest of

Get all the details

  
   
    
 
  
   
  

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

 

‘ Obcouslr .‘hisi.t nol rnur t’1(.'t?r‘(7’£.
’ .3’ .3 A

 

PAGE 7

More ups and downs

By Robert Turner

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s women’s
basketball team (8-6, 5-5) experienced
another up and down week going 2-1
and grabbing an ODAC win. W&L
earned a victories over ODAC coun-
terpart Randolph-Macon Women’s
College and Villa-Julie, but fell to
ODAC nival Randolph-Macon.

Thursday the Generals traveled to
Lynchburg for a match-up with R-
MWC and used an 8-0 run to close
out the ﬁrst half on their way to a 69-
44 conference win.

The Generals used a nice balance
of inside and outside offense to put
the Wildcats away as sophomore for-
wards Jessica Mentz and Carter Tho-
mas had 16 and 12 points, respectively.
Senior guard Jessica Morton contrib-
uted 15 points to the effort.

The Generals took to the road again
Saturday for a game against ODAC
Randolph-Macon. W&L struggled
from the ﬂoor throughout the game,
shooting only 28 percent, and left

Ashland with a 64-51 loss. Despite the
Generals’ woes from the floor, the
game was knotted 51-51 with 7:31 re-
maining. R-MC was able to hold W&L
scoreless for the remainder to take the
win.

Once again, the Generals were
paced by Mentz (15 points) and
Morton (12 points), while sophomore
center Megan Babst recorded another
double-double. .

W&L had another road contest
Sunday, travelling to Stevenson, MD
to take on Villa Julie College.

The Generals performed solidly on
both ends of the ﬂoor, shooting 44% on
offense while forcing 28 turnovers on
defense. With that solid play, the Gener-
als were able to cruise to the 70-43 win.

Jessica Morton had another out-
standing performance, pouring in 19
points on 8-9 shooting from the ﬁeld.
Mentz (13 points, 6 rebounds) and
Babst (9 points, 5 rebounds) also gave
solid contributions.

The Generals look to gain an ODAC
win at Lynchburg on Thursday. Tip-
offis set from 7 p.m.

The split at Sewanee

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee swim
teams returned to a somewhat normal
routine after last weekend’s back-to-
back-to-back meets. The Generals trav-
eled to the University of the South
Saturday and came away with the split.
The men’s team defeated the Tigers,
1 19-73. The women’s squad fell, 130-
65, to Sewanee.

The meet was originally scheduled
for Sunday, but was moved up to avoid
the snow that was forecast for the area.

The thirteen-hour drive to
Sewanee was the longest trip of the
season for the swimmers who are in
the middle of a four-meet regular sea-
son road stint.

Two swimmers for the W&L men each
came away with two wins on the day.
Junior Colin Hayes paced the men's
squad, ﬁnishing first in the 200 free
(1 :48. 19) and 100 ﬂy (52.50). Freshman
Patrick Frankfurtwonthe 500ﬁee(4:5623)
and 100 free (10: 12.08), and senior Ken
Ervin won the 50 free with atime of 2 1 .9.



£13‘

 yin >.’."’/<‘I.\.s

Freshman Kelli Austin led the
women’s squad with two individual
wins. Austin took ﬁrst place in the 100
free (56.16) and 200 free (2:01 .94). Fel-
low classmate Blair Huffman won the
100 ﬂy with atime of 1 104.32.

Exhaustion is still a factor for the
Generals even though Saturday's meet
was the only one for the week.

“We are at the peak of our training
right now in the season,” said Huffman.
“We are having our hardest workouts
now and everyone is very tired.”

The Generals are hoping that inten-
sity will pay off in the post season,
which begins with the ODAC tourna-
ment on Feb. 18.

“The pace will slow down in a few
weeks so that we can start resting.
Everyone is still swimming very well ,

.consideringhow,tired.we are. The out-
look [for ODAC tournament] is posi- ,
tive,” said Huffman.

W&L continues its string of road
contests on Sunday when it travels to
Mary Washington for a tri-meet with
the host Eagles and Rowan College.
The meetwill begin at2:00 p.m.

Na'turalIy,the c:.ourit.ry’s premiere leadership school

‘ offers only the latest in athietic equipment.

V rm. Sure, we .\‘f'I‘(.'i'¥gih{.'}iV)’011P berg)‘. But
we also strcn_i;‘t/1cn___yuur mind. T/1ut'.\' haw 1(‘t? go about building lmrlcrs‘.
Sh<Ipirig_)m:n_g men and r'(.'(>m(’n into ronjident, dcterrriined derision niukcrs.
So. like to_1¢IImalor>lmtIIie equipment? Call I«.s'(m«i\iAax2~: es. Or mlcif
at VyWW.MARINEO.FFICER.COM'. lAou’lIi love our new rope climb;

Tlte Fem The Proud.

 

 

PAGE 8

-8
~a
E”
E
B

70% faster

tLAsT WORD

JANUARY 24, 2000

Mock Con fever is making me ill

By Kevin McManemin

DYNAMTE VS. RADICAL HARRY

“Everything is changing. People are
taking the comedians seriously and the
politicians as a joke.” '

—Will Rogers

The politicians aren’t the only ones
lying these days. Chew on this quote
from the W&L Mock Con brochure:
In a decade when America's youth
have been dubbed ”disengaged, ”
"unmotivated, " and "apathetic," the
Mock Convention of Washington and
Lee University contradicts these gen-
eralizations with its raucous realism
and remarkable prediction rate.

Whoa, whoa, whoa, slow down
there, Skippy. Let’s not confuse Mock
Con fever with real interest in politics
—— if all Americans got a day off from
work and a three-day drunken party
for conventions, they’d be pretty
friggin’ excited about politics too.

Unfortunately, the simple fact is that

Americans are by in large not very in-
terested in democracy anymore, and
our generation in particular is about
as jaded, cynical and pessimistic as
Janeane Garofalo on a three-day
downer binge. According to the U.S.
census ofﬁce, only about 20 percent
of those between the ages of 18-24
bothered to vote in the 1994 elections.
Non-voters are the true largest politi-
cal group in this country.

So, what happened? I mean, de-
mocracy won, right? The spectres of
fascism and communism have been ex-
orcised from the world, and American-
style democracy rules the planet. Why
did our generation start to ﬁnd poli-
tics about as interesting as a PBS
pledge drive? Here are a few of the
reasons:

1) The blandification of politics

The extraordinary success rate of
Mock Con predictions in the past
couple of decades is not a sign that
we’re doing more research than we
used to — it’s a sign that American

returning morality and
accountability to the Of-
fice of President

a platform of compas-
sionate conservativism
family values

a broad-based, grass-
roots campaign

partisan politics is
gridlocking this country

<|.I<HI’: TRANSLATOR

When the politicians come to town next week, they sure
are going to use a lot of clichés! But what do they all
really mean? Use this handy cliche’ translator to find out!

electing someone who
will do a better job of
keeping his affairs from
the media

still brutalizing the poor,
but feeling bad about it
afterwards

my family's values

we couldn't afford a
professional campaign

the other side's partisan
politics

Experience refreshing Coca-Cola,

 

Fizzus

politics has become as utterly banal,
dull and predictable as an episode of
“Home Improvement.”

America is run by two centrist par-
ties that differ more in rhetoric than in
ideology (and in recent years they’ve
even begun swapping rhetoric). More
importantly, America is really run by
an all-powerful mainstream media that
brands anyone who dares venture a
little to the left or right of the political
spectrum a “wacko extremist.”

The only candidates who survive
in this culture are those more middle-
of-the-road than a highway divider.
We end up with men like George W.
and his shot at super-centrism with
“compassionate conservatism,” a pa-
thetic attempt to combine the feel-
good warmth of liberalism with the
common sense of conservatism. Will
this transparent effort to garner popu-
lar support work? Of course it will.
We’re talking about Americans here,
and these are the people for whom the
brain is at best the ﬁﬁh most impor-
tant vital organ, behind the heart, the
stomach, the naughty parts and the
wallet (anyone who doesn’t consider
the wallet a vital organ is a Commie).

American voters are the desperate
women in the singles bar of the world,
waiting to be picked up by some slick,
sleazy and utterly phony huckster who
tells them exactly what they want to
hear. They know they’re only going
to get screwed and used and lied to in
the end, but they don’t care. Pardon
non-voters for not buying into it all.

2) The only ﬁghts left are the bor-
ing ﬁghts

The greedy baby boomers
snatched up all of the good political
causes. They spent their formative
years immersing themselves in noble
ventures like ending the oppression
of minorities and ensuring equal rights
for women and stopping an unjust war
and ﬁnding the hidden messages in
Sgt. Pepper. What’s left for us? Noth-
ing remotely as exciting.

Despite the media insistence that

the WTO riots in Seattle signify a “re-
birth of activism,” the fact is that the
rioters represent a tiny, tiny fringe of
America. The WTO riots have about
as much in common with the popular
youth rallies and riots of the 1960’s as
Kid Rock has with Beethoven. The
WTO riots were perpetrated by a mot-
ley collection of anarchists, animal
rights extremists and labor unions. Is-
sues like collective labor arbitration
and equal rights for sea turtles are sim-
ply not going to capture the attention
of a generation the way ending a war
or stopping racism did. And anarchism
is the political equivalent to chocolate
covered pizza— it sounds like a good
idea at ﬁrst, but then when you actu-
ally think about it seems pretty damned
stupid.

We are not very politically involved
because idealism and ideology are not
nearly as interesting as the Internet.
Political activism is nice and all, but is
changing the world going to get you a
job, or buy you a CD, or provide you,
with top quality pornography on de-
mand? No. Can the Internet do all of
these things? Yes. So pardon me for
not being moved to action by the
plight of the snow leopards, but I’ve
got mail.

3) Where are the duels?

Back in the old days, when men like
Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton
had disagreements, they settled it by
going out into a ﬁeld and shooting at
each other. NOW THAT’S POLITICS!

Sadly, the days of Charles-
Sumneresque head thrashings on the
ﬂoor of Congress are forever behind
us. Modern politics is about consen-
sus building, not winning at all costs.
Even the much-lamented negative ad-
vertising politicians resort to doesn’t
come close to the nastiness and viril-
ity of campaigning back in the l800’s,
when political parties actually ran the
major newspapers and printed what-
ever they damed well felt like, no mat-
ter how little truth was involved.

So what happened? Well, it’s no

laslus

{ inviting lo the louchus }

classic in an ice-cold glass bottle at

The Washington & Lee Snack Bar for only 59¢.

Offer ends January 3|, 2000.

coincidence that politics started get-
ting a lot nicer and a lot more sensible
around the same time women were al-
lowed into politics. Public life used to
be about gratifying grand egos, amass-
ing power, and crushing the competi-
tion —— now it’s about “caring for the
community,” “securing our children’s
futures,” and “building bridges.”
Sure, this new femocentric (??) po-
litical style might be good for the com-
munity, but, come on, admit it, aren’t

Smilus

Sometimes it takes a special little “pick-me-up” to
ride daddy’s coat-tails into office. That’s why I reach
for Coke —— it gives me that Courtney-Love-shine I
need to keep going all campaign long. Cot Coke?

  
 
    
   

you just a little wistful for the good ol’
days? Wouldn’t it be thoroughly re-
freshing to see a presidential debate
in which Steve Forbes calls Al Gore
an “ass clown” and whacks him over
the head with a baseball bat?

It’s no wonder, then, that a genera-
tion weaned on a Clockwork-Orange-
like diet of television violence ﬁnds
politics insipidly boring. Want to save
democracy for the 215‘ century? Three
simple words: dueling on C-SPAN.

Wﬁﬂenioy

cmmmcouoncamuq.-cauo=u'aamcmmaom.am..nqm.umumuamcoucouc.mpq

 

  

 

€2ns.755
R5571-
v.[o’2.
VIOIIQ
r C - L-

  

1" ‘ ‘i IL?’ ( I‘ U!’ l\...3 .

[FXlf‘J.TFi'l‘{.3‘.¥t, VA Er-£!.!f‘.G

"Pa 0 32000

. U112 ‘Ring-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

V

 

hi

, VOLUME 102, NO. 19

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

i victory, McCain takes three states

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Featuring an Exxon Valdez
ﬂoat, “reliable windsocks,” and
plenty of Texas bashing, Wash-
ington and Lee’s 2000 Republi-
Y can Mock Convention went off
without a hitch. Students
weren't disappointed with the
political spectacle that rolls
)‘ around only once during their
W&L career.

“I had a great time,” freshman
Katherine Hill. “I really enjoyed
all of the speeches, especially
Y Bob Dole’s.”

Capped off with a balloon
drop, the convention empha-
sized good times just as much
as it did the serious business of
selecting the Republican presi-
dential nominee.

To no one’s surprise, Texas
Gov. George W. Bush ran away
It with the electoral votes and
nomination. State delegations
spent months researching their
states’ electoral process, politi-
cal background and candidate
support right up until the week-
end. Working through a rigor-
ous and structured research
system, students contacted
H several leaders from their state
and gauged the state's decision
based upon their response.
Leaders in the Convention deﬁ-
nitely felt the heat of upholding
K W&L’s tradition of accuracy.

“I don’t even want to think
what would happen to me if we
get it wrong,” political chairman
David Dardis told The Roanoke
Times on Friday. “They’d prob-

nu?

ably strip the flesh from my bones
and hang the carcass to all those
who might fail in the future.”

But most students left the re-
search up to their state leaders and
just showed up at state parties and
maybe even to help with the ﬂoat.

States teamed up for parties
throughout the week and up to Sat-
urday night. From Tequila Sunrise
parties Friday and Saturday morn-
ing, to the Southern states’ party
at the Volcano Wednesday night,
students made sure to put a W&L
stamp on the whole affair.

Earlier this week, the Student Ac-
tivities Pavilion was stuffed with
state ﬂoats in various states of con-
struction. Wood shavings and the
noxious fumes of spray paint mixed
with beer and pizza as the crunch
time of Thursday night drew near.

‘Friday morning’s parade
brought plenty of humorous ﬂoats
toting students fresh from their 7:30
a.m. Champagne Brunch. Some
states opted to poke fun at them-
selves by employing state stereo-
types. The Roanoke Times empha-
sized students’ irreverence in the
parade. Mock Con only set two
rules this year: don't throw things
at the crowd and don't drink while
on the ﬂoat.

Parade highlights included
Alaska's Exxon Valdez ﬂoat, com-
plete with a drunken captain swerv-
ing around the street and oil-cov-
ered animals following behind. The
Washington, D.C. float carried
Monica Lewinsky and President
Bill Clinton while reporters sur-
rounded them.

The Hawaii ﬂoat won most hu-
morous and Georgia triumphed in

. Mock Con predicts Bush as GOP candidate

Texas governor wins sweeping “mock”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

MOCK CON LUAU: Members of the Hawaii delegation bring a little “island spirit” to a
Republican event. Their ﬂoat won ﬁrst place in the “Most Humorous” category.

the Best-overall category with their
“Midnight Train to Georgia” loco-
motive.

Friday afternoon and evening
was highlighted by its political
speakers. Most spent their time
preaching the general Republican

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

MR. VICE PRESIDENT? Rep. J.C. Watts (R-OK) brings a little “fire and brimstone” to W&L.

platform and bashing Democrats,
especially the Clinton presidency.

Oklahoma Gov. Frank Keating
provided memorable fodder by de-
picting Al Gore as, “a reliable
windsock” on issues like the NRA,
Social Security, tobacco and cam-

paign finance reform. Keating
insisted on driving his
windsock theme into the
ground and students began to
chant the slogan with him near

SEE ‘MOCK CON’ ON PAGE 2

Mock Con On—Air

National media ﬂocks to Lexington

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Mock Con’s drunken revelry is go-
ing prime time.

CNN, C-SPAN, NPR, the Washing-
ton Times, FOX News, and the Dallas
Morning News all attended Saturday’s
session. The Associated Press and
United Press International, both national
wire services that provide stories to
newspapers nationwide, attended as
well.

The Wall Street Journal, Time and
MTV may feature the Convention. ABC
Radio News aired a piece Saturday night.

Media Chair Sean Eddy said stu-
dents should check the Mock Con web
site for national air times.

“Our committee worked really hard
in the past months and especially the
last two weeks to bring in the press,”
Eddy said. “This is good publicity for

both Mock Con and the University.”

MTV may air a piece on Mock
Con for their “Choose or Lose”'se-
ries. They didn’t send a crew, but
Eddy said MTV shares footage with
CNN.

Eddy said Mock Con’ s timing be-
fore the New Hampshire primaries,
where a lot of media are spending
the weekend, limited the number of
news organizations that could have
attended.

CNN, who attended the Conven-
tion for the first time, was especially
impressed with the logistics and ex-
ecution of the student-run event,
Eddy said. All of the reporters told
Eddy that had a fun time covering
Mock Con.

The media left Eddy hanging
until the end. C-SPAN agreed to
come on Tuesday and CNN decided
to come on Friday.

 

 

Ramsey responds to controversy

N Overnight Guest House resident: “I’m not looking for trouble”

By Christie Phillips

STAFF WRITER

“I never denied it when I was ar-
rested. Back then I was young. I drank
and did drugs. There isn’t a day gone
by that I don’t want to take it all back.”
I; Todd Lee Ramsey, 33, was charged

with attempted rape of a minor in 1986.

Weeks ago he moved into the Over-

night Guest House, a residence next

to the Washington and Lee campus.

’‘ “I'm just here working. Everyday
working. I’m not looking for trouble,”
Ramsey said. “I don’t judge people
until I know them. I did something
when I was 18. I’m 33 now—there’s a
big difference.”

Since Ramsey was convicted of at-
tempted rape in 1986, he has been reg-
istered with the state as a sex offender.
)4‘ Sex offender records and registries are
made available to the public through
Megan’s Law, a law that allows citi-

zens access to the information so that
they know sex offenders living in their
neighborhoods. Through this law,
W&L security learned that Ramsey
was residing in the area.

“He hasn’t caused any problems
for us yet, but we’re keeping our eyes
open,” said Mike Young, director of
security at W&L.

On Tuesday, security sent a cam-
pus-wide e-mail about Ramsey and his
location. It warned students that
Ramsey has been convicted of at-
tempted rape twice, once in 1986 and
again in 1998. According to the Vir-
ginia State Police sex offender record,
three other convicted sex offenders
live in Lexington, but Ramsey's prox-
imity to campus worried authorities.

“We felt obligated to let everyone
know he’s residing there,” said Young.
“We just want to be safe.”

Many students have already taken
precautions to ensure their safety.

W&L sophomore Tiffany Friedel lives
in Gaines Dormitory, the student resi-
dence directly behind the Overnight

-Guest House.

“I don’t walk past that building any-
more,” she said. “It’s very scary. I go
all the way around through the gym to
get home.”

Other students echo Friedel‘ s anxi-
ety about Ramsey"s presence.

“I was walking to the Language
Lab on Tuesday night after just read-
ing the campus e-mail,” said junior
Amy Borgman. “It was dark and I got
freaked out.”

But Ramsey claims he is not here
to cause more trouble.

“I did a crime, I did my time,” he said.
”Everybody wants to judge me. I don't
judge people until I get to know them.
I’m just like y’ all are. My record doesn’t
speak for it, but I’m a kind person.”

SEE ‘RAMSEY’ ON PAGE 2

January 31, 200%

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

I SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

(J11: ‘ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

Popular reaction to Mock Con

Zounds! Welles’ Falstaff takes stage

Generals give Tigers a good ﬁght

.McManemin vs. Decency?

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2000

Fewer
ﬂasks?

Mock Con sees few
alcohol problems
By Mike Crittenden

Assocm TE EDITOR

Despite the bacchanal that was this
year's Mock Convention, major inci-
dents involving alcohol and conven-
tion goers were kept at a minimum.

“It was pretty quiet, we didn’t really
have any problems,” said Jane Wheel-
ing at the Student Health Center.

Washington and Lee’s director of
security, Mike Young, agreed saying
that this year’s Mock Convention was
fairly tame.

“We just kept an eye out and sup-
ported the Mock Convention security
people,” Young said. “It was pretty
tame.”

The convention was not without
its problems, however, as at least two
students vomited on the convention
ﬂoor, and a belligerent alumnus was
escorted from the convention. Mock
Convention’s head of security, sopho-
more Mac Everist, said it was nothing
unexpected.

“Overall, things were status quo for
a Washington and Lee function,”
Everist said.

Everist said that the biggest prob-
lem was the drunken alumnus who had
to be thrown out of the convention
because he was too belligerent and was
attempting to cause trouble.

“The man had taken one too many
trips to the VIP room,” Everist said. “He
was bothering the speakers and other
guests and so we had to get rid of him.
We warned him, but when he tried to
get on the microphone security grabbed
him and made him leave.

In addition to the two vomiteers,
both juniors, and the alumnus, two of
the delegations were not allowed to par-
ticipate in Friday’s parade through Lex-
ington because of alcohol use. Accord-
ing to one student, who asked to re-
main anonymous, the Lexington Police
Department was searching Breubaker
Field, where the ﬂoats started on Fri-

. day morning.

Both the homestate Virginia and
Tennessee ﬂoats were removed from
parade entrants before the parade be-
gan for drinking and possessing al-
cohol on or near their ﬂoats. Though
disappointing to members of each del-
egation, they made the best of it, lin-
ing up on the parade route together
and chanting. According to Everist,
the cops were well within their
bounds.

“The delegations who were caught
were way too obvious about what they
were doing,” Everist said. “Some stu-
dents went so far as to walk up to the
police and tell them they wouldn’t stop
drinking. That just isn’t smart.”

All in all, Everist said, the conven-
tion was a success from a security
standpoint except for the few minor
incidences and was even humorous.

“It was funny to watch the stu-
dents waving ﬂags fall off their chairs
occasionally.”

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
VMI MAKES THEIR MARK. The VM]
Color Guard presents the ﬂags
opening each session of Mock Con.

 

 

 

 

F I @112 Ztting-tum ﬂirt

JANUARY 31, 2000

BIG SKY COUNTRY: The Montana state ﬂoat brought some backwoods c
Lexington during Friday morning’s parade. Those aren’t real bears or ﬁrearms, by the way.

hoto by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
arm to the streets of

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

A FLASHBACK TO ‘96?: Keynote speaker and 1996 GOP Presidential candidate Bob Dole
addresses the crowd during Saturday morning’s session.

‘RAMSEY’ from page 1

Ramsey spent 12 years in prison for his conviction in
1986.

“Life inside isn’t easy," he said. “Everyone thinks its
great in prison - you get three hot meals and a bed to sleep
in. But it isn't like that. You wake up in the morning and
wonder ifyou’re going to live.”

“Prison is, I guess you could say, another world,” he
continued. “It's nothing compared to this one that you
enjoy.”

Ramsey was released on Feb. 10, 1997. In 1998 he was
again convicted of attempted rape here in Rockbridge
County.

“I didn’t do it, that second time” Ramsey said. “My
lawyer told me to plea bargain, so I plea bargained. Ifl was
found guilty by ajudge I would have gone back to jail for
good. I didn’t want to go back tojail.”

Ramsey said he had sex with the woman who accused
him of rape the second time, but it was not forced contact.

“Nine times out of 10, the girl who accused me will say
I didn’t do it,” he said. “She just needed someone to blame.”

For his plea bargain, Ramsey received a sentence of 100
days in jail and ﬁve years probation. He is currently serv-
ing that probation.

“I’mjust a person,” he said. “Ijust want to get on with
my life. Iwant to pay my bills and court ﬁnes and get out of
here in a couple of months.”

Ramsey was arrested Tuesday night on a capius for not
paying a court ﬁne. That night he was also charged with
three counts of passing worthless checks. After paying a
ﬁne, he was released.

“I was arrested for a $50 court ﬁne,” he said. “I had to
pay $300 to get out ofjail. Heck, I should have just paid the
court ﬁne.”

Ramsey is currently working for the electric company
on a new construction site in the area. He moved into the
Overnight Guest Houses after he caught his live-in girl-

friend with another man.

“I walked in on her and another guy,” Ramsey said. “I
kicked her and him out butt naked and told her it was over.
But I couldn't live in that house anymore. That's why I'm
staying here.”

Ramsey does not think he's asking for trouble living in
the Guest Houses, which are located next to three fresh-
man dorms.

“I'm not trying to go back to prison,” he said. “IfI look
at my past I'll never make a future for myself.”

“If you want to know about my past, ask me. I’m
ashamed, but I’ll talk. Everyone makes mistakes, some are
just bigger than others.”

Though Ramsey claims he is a gentle man, his past
speaks for itself. While in prison, Ramsey stabbed a fellow
inmate.

“It was a choice, me or him,” he said. “He pulled a knife
on me and so I stabbed him. Ifa guy pulls a knife on you,
you know he's going to use it — ifnot now, sometime.”

If caught stabbing the inmate, Ramsey could have
earned more time behind bars. But he wasn't caught.

In his 12 years of imprisonment, Ramsey was moved
seven times to six different penitentiaries.

“You get moved around a lot when you get in trouble,”
he said.

Ramsey also continued his drug use in prison.

“Me and cocaine, we were good buds,” he said. “There
are more drugs in prison than on the streets. You want
homemade mash, you got it. You want a drink, name your
favorite."

Ramsey has two tattoos to show for his years in prison.
A huge Guns ‘N Roses symbol marks his right forearm. On
his left forearm is a heart with a dagger through it and a
snake climbing the dagger.

“See that one,” he said. “Know what that means? ‘Love
sucks?”

‘MOCK CON’ from page 1———

the end of the speech. But Keating seemed oblivious
to their mocking chants at the press conference after-
wards.

“It's an honor and great opportunity for me to come
here,” Keating said. “I'm really impressed by the num-
ber of people involved. These young people are in-
formed and it's essential to know your leaders.”

Keating went on to describe why he has come out
in support of Gov. Bush.

“Bush is the
governor of a
country and he's
doing it well,”
Keating said.
“He's making
tough decisions
and advocates a
consistent value
system.”

Keating ar-
rived one hour
before taking
the stage and
left after dinner
for Oklahoma
City since the
state legislature
is set to begin
budget hearings
this week.

Bob Ross,
the 1996 Mock
Con Political
Chairman who is
now an Okla-
homa City law-
yer, suggested
the trip to
Keating and he
im m e d i a t e ly
agreed. Sopho-

MOCK CON PANDEMONIUM. Delegates show their state pride at

“I thought he was a powerful speaker with good
things to say about the Republican platform,” fresh-
man Patrick Lauler said. “He translated a political mes-
sage into a sermon.”

Watts was one of the keynote speakers at the 1996
Republican Convention. Mock Con Advisor William
Connelly said Watts presence is felt throughout the party.

“He has a galvanizing effect on the party,” Connelly
said. “He broadens the party's base.” ‘

The Pressroom was filled with supporters wearing
“J.C. Watts for President” buttons after the speech.
Watts talked
with only a few
in the throng;
most were con-
tent to watch
him up close
and try to get an
autograph. It
was Watts first
visit to W&L,
although his
staff attended in
1996 and ad-
vised him to ac-
cept the invita-
tion.

“The Repub-
lican Party
needsito make
who we are rel-
evant to young
people and a
night like to-
night doesn't
hurt in connect-
ing with the
youth,” Watts
said. “It would
be nice if all of
Congress could
be around this

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
raw energy and

more Drew _ _ _ _ not be so
Crighton is a one of the sessions, anxiously awaiting the keynote speaker. jaded.”
friend of When asked

Keating's son when they lived in Northern Virginia
and met Keating after the speech.

Virginia Attorney General Mark Earley ﬁlled the omi-
nous TBA spot in Session II's schedule. He was called
late in the week and jumped at the chance to speak.

“I was happy to do it,” Earley said. “This is a great
opportunity for student and community involvement
in the electoral process."

Republican National Committee Chairman Jim
Nicholson followed with a speech poking fun at Gore's
propensity to claim responsibility for popular initia-
tives like the Internet. Nicholson used slide projec-
tions in a speech that seemed like a long string of
jokes about Gore and Clinton. Nicholson received a
tepid response at best from students for his efforts at
humor.

Afterwards, Nicholson praised the convention.

“I hope our convention is as well executed and or-
ganized as yours,” Nicholson said. “The energy and
enthusiasm out there is really contagious.”

Nicholson also described his opinion ofthe central
issue in the presidential race.

“The character and trust issue will be the most im-
portant because people don't trust the president and
Gore can't restore that trust,” Nicholson said. “He's
joined at the hip with Clinton.”

Oklahoma Representative J.C. Watts was a crowd
favorite. His fiery style was straight out of the
preacher's pulpit, where he has spent some time. He
managed to quiet the inebriated crowd and bring it to
its feet at will. His speech focused on youth, national
pride and the need to unite the Republican party.

He ended with a metaphorical story on the disap-
pearance of“little Johnny” and the need tojoin hands
with others for the common good.

about running under Bush as Vice President, Watts,
who hasn't annou-nced if he will run for the House
again, strongly hinted he would take the opportu-
nity.

“It would be like your Mother calling,” Watts said.
“I am a Bush supporter and will do all I can, but the
nominees owe me nothing . . .just good government.”

Watts left Washington on Friday, stayed at W&L

.. three hours before .his speech, and left after the press

conference for the Super Bowl in Atlanta. _.

Fireworks filled the sky by the footbridge to round
out day one.

Area Congressman Bob Goodlatte kicked off
Saturday's session. He was followed by former Secre-
tary of Education Bill Bennett. Bennett was spotted at
the Palms Friday night and made reference to his
"search for virtue" there in his speech.

Bennett focused on attacking Clinton, the Demo-
cratic ideal of“big government,” and the liberal faults
in foreign policy.

“[Clinton] has disgraced and degraded everything
he has touched,” Bennett said. “It's time to put the

grown-ups back in charge of foreign policy.”

Convention keynote speaker and 1996 presidential
candidate Bob Dole rounded out the speaker list. Dole
praised the convention during his speech.

“You may be responsible for hundreds of thou-
sands of people participating in the political process
and that is worth the time you spend here,” Dole said.

Dole went on to criticize Gore's lack of action in the
Clinton White House.

“If you were second in command, our Vice Presi-
dent, in one ofthe most corrupt administrations in our
nation's history and you did nothing to stop it,” Dole
said, “indeed, you applauded it.”

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

AND THE NOMINEE IS. . . The balloons drop on the crowd Saturday afternoon after the convention
nominates George W. Bush as the future Republican candidate for the presidency.

 

JANUARY 31, 2000

OP

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

INION

 

PAGE 3

Staff

Editorial

Anyone who has ever set foot in the J-school knows
Prof. Brian Richardson’s famous mantra: “If your mother
says she loves you, check it out”. This is a lesson often
learned the hard way, and most majors ﬁnally get the point
via a zero received for a fact error.

Obviously, not all of the students who put together
W&L student publications are journalism majors, but we
all still strive to check everything out.

Last week, we received an advertisement from a private
individual who was offering to buy local phone books for
$40. Normally, we don’t question advertisers. We operate
under the principle that they as much right to buy space in
our publication as you, the reader, have to ignore their
message.

We have, on very rare occasions, refused advertising
based on content. And last week, based on the possibly
invasive nature of the advertisement, we did what every
survivor of Richardson’s class would do: we checked it
out.

As we read our cruciﬁxion on the back page of The
Trident this week, it became apparent that not everybody
checks everything out. Your suggestion is duly noted, and
returned for your own consideration.

We called the number that you saw last week in the
paper long before we ever printed it. It would not accept
the collect calls the ad invited. We then called the number
that appeared on the check that arrived with the ad; it was
also based in Tennessee. The infonnation regarding Todd
Ramsey had not been released to the W&L community at
that point, and we had no real reason to believe that this
was anything more than a waste of money for the adver-
tiser in view of the fact that calls could not be placed.

With the release of Todd Ramsey’s past, however, many
people in the communityjumped to the conclusion that he
had placed the ad. He did not. Ramsey has resided in the
community long enough to be able to get his hands on a
Lexington phone book, and could get a W&L directory
simply by going by the Registrar’s ofﬁce. He had no need
to offer $40 from Tennessee for information that could be
obtained freely a stone’s throw from his place of residence.

Yeah, we have a convicted felon living in our midst.
Yeah, we need to take precautions. But even convicted
felons have rights in this country, and Ramsey can live
wherever he wants to.

The idea behind Megan’s Law was to provide knowl-
edge to unsuspecting communities. It was not to ensure
that people who had made mistakes would be cruciﬁed
wherever they went. You are forewarned, W&L. Act ac-
cordingly, and let him be.

   

uote of the Week:

George Washington could not
tell a lie, Bill Clinton cannot
tell the truth, and Al Gore
cannot tell the difference.

— RNC chair Jim Nicholson AND Va.
' Attorney General Mark Earley

))
Ellie ﬂing-tum ilﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Eliana Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w1u.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

‘TNOW Tl’lA'l‘S A

 

seuiete wlwosoct" ,
gov. FmnK l<cai1n3

 

(0 K)

Impressions of the 2000 Mock Convention

Flags fluttered and swayed around the transformed
gymnasium, people roared and clapped, and wrote mes-
sages to the world on their party hats. The 2000 Republi-
can Mock Convention has come and gone, and all that is
left is our memories, or lack thereof, and our hangovers.

From the haze of the past few days emerge two striking
impressions: the lack of respect we
as an institution received from the
speakers, and the lack of thought
which went into our behavior. By
this point we have a reputation for
being spoiled drunks, perhaps de-
servedly so. Both our own chair-
men and the speakers made crowd-pleasing references to
the level of intoxication, nights at the Palms, and how much
of a party our Mock Con really is. These werejokes, made
to wake up the crowd and evoke some good feeling. How-
ever, their frequency reflects the prominence of this as-
pect of Mock Con, and only serves to cement our reputa-
tion.

We were condescended to, egged on like children rather
than thinking adults, and we largely did not contradict
this. At times the lack of respect shown by the students
was embarrassing, as when our bourbon—brined chatter
became so loud that speakers had to raise their voices to
be heard over us. We were fully aware of the cameras trained
on us, and equally aware of the behavior expected of us.
By and large, we fulﬁlled expectations, but not much more.

We had a number of intelligent, powerful, and yes,
frankly famous people on stage, relating their ideas on

7‘-if

t

G.D.I.

ei..""“"-“‘

how we should see the Republican party and democracy
in general. Perhaps I underestimate, but how many truly
listened with an ear critical enough to separate ideas of
potential value from meaningless propaganda and catch-
words? By critical listening, I am not implying a lack of
loyalty or identiﬁcation with the Republican party; I am
' referring to compassing these speakers
by the meaning and weight of their words
and behavior.

How much thought did we put into
these speeches? We responded to invo-
cations of our revered Reagan, though
perhaps with more irony by the ﬁftieth
reference. We responded to sob stories of the noble rising
out of piteous circumstances. We responded to Watts’
abstract but well delivered charm. We responded to our
beloved Elrod, and to Dole’s name, seniority and perhaps
his sincerity. We responded individually with outbursts
of words that amused us — drugs, prostitutes, etc. Last but
not least (Texans are excluded) we responded reliably but
less‘ convincingly when th‘e’Mock’Con moment called’ for
it. In comparison, the most eloquent of dissertations on
the nature of liberty in our government elicited bleary nods.

Yes, we were stirred. But with the exception of
ironic or dutiful applause, it was our emotions which were
reached, not our minds. You might argue that it was a
party convention, with agreement implicit, needing only
to raise the passions. Yet to suspend the action of the
critical mind at any time is dangerous. We are Washington
and Lee students. We are the potential future leaders, or

the best hope our country has for leaders. Intelligent, well
educated, honest, and well versed in social manipulations,
we theoretically stand to take up the reins. We are, in fan-
tasy and for two days, hardened committed republican poli-
ticians. If we submit our independent critical thought in
order to fulﬁll expectations of soaked, apathetic, aristo-
crats, and in doing so we fall into the trap of image, power,
and emotionalism with which popular politics is conducted,
we quietly and unwittingly relinquish any real power and
advantages we have. We betray ourselves, and hand con-
trol over our futures to those remaining who are all too
willing to pick up what we cast aside.

The essence of a democratic republic is the active par-
ticipation of informed persons in their government. This
past weekend has been an exercise in the actual process
that controls that system. Our high level of participation
and enthusiasm in the Mock Convention commends us,
but knowledge and recognition of the forces behind the
platfonns, ideals, spoken words and impassioned pleas are
as important as participation and passion in a real republic.
Those who grasp this will ultimately be the onestocontrol
our republic, or to betray it.

Let us be more than well-educated wealthy children
who know how to drink hard. Merely fulﬁlling expected
stereotypes leaves us with no surprises for the world and
the future - it leaves us stagnant, moving neither forward
nor back. Let us question and think, then move beyond
expectations. We have the ability to do more than the aver-
age spin-doctored public: we have the ability to take our
republic and our future, into our own hands.

Snow leaves me searching for the perfect run

As I look out over the white tundra that Lexington has
become, I become a tad nostalgic, and a little more reas-
sured that things are almost right in the world.

I grew up with snow in the Lewiston, Maine, where
snow is an all encompassing force for ﬁve months out of
the year. Like a big brother or uncle, it is omnipresent and
wise beyond its years, teaching you the basic lessons of
life. Maxims like don’t eat the yellow snow, a rock in a
snowball will always sting a little more, and the perfect
sledding run
comes only once

snow and sled; slightly out of breath, your cheeks warm
and red from the cold, you lay there and realize that Kurtz
was wrong, forthis nature’s power is beautiful in its omni-
science.

That sound in the middle ofthe

perfect run. The silence quickly being broken, we would
excitedly yell while trudging through waist deep snow, no
one wanting to say that maybe this would be the day,
maybe we would ﬁnd it. We’d sled for hours upon hours,

inventing methods of freestyle

woods as you lay there after mak- sf
ing a run, where ifyou listen hard If 
enough you can hear the snow K 

  

s  Badiporch Balderdash
Midiael Crittenden ’O1

sledding that others can’t even be-
gin to comprehend. Eventually
getting tired, we would hurriedly

hit around you, and there is noth-
ing else. Just a blank
nothingness of sound that blankets you in your

66

every ﬁfty years
and you have to
take it when it
comes.

Like Bodhi

world was perfect in its
silence and authority

For in that moment the

excitement and happiness.

My friends and I spent a lifetime in the
woods near my house, woods where you could
walk for half-a-mile and disappear from civiliza-
tion for hours. There we would search and experi-

searching for the
perfect wave in
Point Break, my friends and I lived for what we envisioned
was the perfect sledding run. A combination ofa fast slope
deep in the woods, well worn trail (ones packed down by
snowmobiles are always the best), and the right tempera-
ture and night, the perfect run is more thanjust a sled run.
The adrenaline rush ofa winter night, the feel ofthe cold
sled through gloves and boots, the cold on your cheeks,
the sounds ofplastic on snow as you whip down the trail,
leaning your body slightly left or right in order to make
turns, before ﬁnally crashing in a spectacular debacle of

 

“It was the experience ofa
lifetime that I didn’t go to.”
— Eszter Pados ’00

 

“It was a perfect mix of partying
and politics.”
—— Natalie Swope ’0l

, , ment for the perfect sledding run, and at the same
' time slowly grow up and learning about ourselves
and our friendships.

I remember waking up at 6:30 in the morning, ﬁnding
out school was canceled and immediately calling Luke and
Matt, invariably waking up their parents. We would be out
in the snow within the hour, throwing snowballs, playing
king of the snow mountain, making forts that would with-
out failure crash in on us. At some point during the day a
feeling would come over us, and looking at each other we
would all nod knowingly and run inside, grabbing our sleds
and start walking towards the wilderness that held our

run Mock Con was.”

 

“I was impressed by how well-

race home to my mom’s hot choco-
late and beef stew, ﬁlling us up with
enough energy to do it all over again.

Waiting until around seven or eight at night, when it
really was dark, we would bundle back up with gloves and
hats, ski pants and parkas, and thick winter boots. We
would then go back out and continue that search late into
the night. I found that run one day, and it is something that
stays with me today, for in that moment the world was
perfect in its silence and authority.

My friend Luke and I were in the right place at the
right time, and we made that run, the two of us on my
little orange sled. Together we made that run, and in
that moment I realized real happiness and friendship; a
kinship with a friend and nature that will never leave
me. I

This is what I remember looking out on the snow that
has surrounded us in the last week, so enjoy it, it can
teach you a lot about yourself, or at least it can for a
black bear from Maine living in the south.

  

 

“I liked the elephant.”
—— Courtney Rosenthal ’03

— Mack Ewing ’03

 

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

@1112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

IFE

JANUARY 31, 2000

Tragedy to strike W&L Friday night

the story,of his great spirit, in both its
strongest and weakest moments.

Martinez said, “This is a story that
absorbed Welles throughout his cre-
ative and personal life —— the story of
a paradise lost at the hands of a ruth-
less bureaucracy.”

Best known as an Orson Welles ﬁlm
adaptation, Martinez adapted the
script back into a play. The play brings
together stories of Falstaffs life re-
lated in Henry IV, Parts 1 and 2, Henry
V, The Merry Wives of Windsor, and a
little bit of Holinshed’s Chronicles,
which Martinez described as “a sort
ofquasi-history ofEngland.” “This is
a lot of different Shakespeare plays all
rolled in to one,” he said. “Since it’s
actually made from a ﬁlm, I think it’s
more accessible.” Not only does it take
key scenes from those plays to tell
about Falstaff’ s life and character, but
it is also a story of Prince Henry. “It’s

ﬁed as a comedy or a drama. “It’s a
little bit of both,” Martinez said.
“Falstaff is a comic character, but what
happens to him is tragic, so in that
sense it’s a little bit ofa drama as well.
He’s like a stand-up comic who has
gotten old, and no one’s really laugh-
ing at his jokes anymore. You’re sym-
pathetic to him, but you also see that
he drinks too much, is kind of a pig,
steals. . . so there are things about him
that are not very lovable. He’s kind of
a bittersweet character.”

Senior Brian Prisco will play the part
of this complex Falstaff, and he is go-
ing all out to do the job right.

“We’re having him shave his head
for the role to make him look older,”
Martinez said, adding that while Prisco
was willing, his mother was not very
happy with the arrangement.

Martinez decided last year that he
wanted to put this show on this year.

‘Now’s the time to do this.’ And he
does a wonderful job.”

So far, the cast has been working on
the show for four to ﬁve weeks, since
everyone returned from break. Students
rehearse about three hours a night, ﬁve
nights a week, plus three hours on one
of the days of the weekend.

“The students are rehearsing the
play 18-20 hours a week, which is a
tremendous amount of time,” Martinez
said. He is not a total slave-driver, how-
ever: he gave the students this week-
end off for Mock Con and the
Superbowl.

A lot of students are involved in
the play - in actors alone, there are al-
most 30, which is quite a signiﬁcant
number. Some of the cast includes
Francis McWilliams as Prince Henry,
sophomore Micah Tohnan as Hotspur,
junior Cassie Ritter as Lady Percy,
Hotspur’s wife, and even professor

swordﬁght with McWilliams (Prince
Hal) , the bathtub scene with Ritter
(Lady Percy) and the bar scene be-
tween Prisco (Falstaff) and
McWilliarns.

It has not all been easy. Tolman said,
“Long rehearsals and the language
proposes difﬁculty. Of course it is the
language that makes it so special, too.”

The cast hopes all their hard work
will be worthwhile, and they are opti-
mistic that it will. They are expecting a
fairly good turnout to the perfor-
mances. Martinez said, “We’re going
to have a lot of the local school sys-
tems out for it . . . local high schools,
English departments.”

Tolman agreed, “I think the show
is going to sail.”

The show opens Friday, Feb. 4 and
runs Feb. 5 and 7 at 8 p.m. and 6 at 2
p.m. Tickets are available from the
Lenfest Center Box Office, at 463-8000.

   

 

 

Signature Student

International Airport. Later, he
went to Northwestern University.
At different points in his North-
western career, he worked for
Stephane Kelian (a French Fran-
chise Boutique), Gianni Versace,
and Saks Fifth Avenue.

Finally, though, Freire decided
it was time to leave Chicago.

“During last spring at North-
western University, my English
professor showed interest in my
writing and after a year recom-
mended [that I] come to W&L,”
Freire said. “She believes that I will
be able to improve my writing here
much better than ifl stayed at
Northwestern University. Beverly,
my English professor believes that
a small school is the place for me.”

Currently Freire is a journalism
and mass communications major
at W&L.

Q: What do you want to do af-

    

 By Eliarma Marziani also a story about a boy who is torn “Brian is doing a really wonderful KrzysztofJasiewiczasCanterbury. _ ‘
I33‘ FEATURESEDITOR between two kinds of fathers,” job inhis role,” Martinez said. “In fact, Tohnan is excited about the play. “I     
E; Martinez said. “The prince loves one ofthe reasons I’m doing this play love Shakespeare, and the theater pro-
 Many might think that trying to di- Falstaff who is more fun-loving, and is because of Brian. Not many can do vides me with a healthy creative out- B Erianna  and contemporary.”
E: gest four Shakespeare plays at once the king.” an older Shakespearean role like that. let that allows me to forget about y FEATURESEDITOR Q: Do you play any sports?
vfmight be brt- academia A: “I might start playing soc-
 ing off a little for a few It takes aspecial kind of per-
 more than you hours,” he son to be able to, at 18 years of
E-gcan chew. said. age, go to another country
 Orson Welles This will whose language he did not
i begged to dif- not just be even know, work his way
 fer, creating any perfor— through college, and makealife
7;; Chimes at mance for for hirnselfthere. Junior Manuel
?- Midnight, a him, how— Alfredo Freireisjustsuchaper-
I, mix and adap- ever. This son.
: tation of four p e r f o r — BominVenezuelaonNov. 20,
lrshakespeare mance will 1973, Freire moved from San
llplays and a be unique, CristobaltoChicagoin 1992.
Eihistory of En- as he said, “My father got his MBA at
Iigland. Wash— “It is the Wharton School in Pennsylva- _-..,,
ifington and ﬁrst time I nia,” Freire said. “He used to Ph°‘° °°""°5y Ma""°' F'°i'°
;;Lee Univer- will ever talk a lot about the importance of cer next semester.”
5: sity Professor wear a mul— getting an education in the United Q: When you were little, what
E1TJ.D. Martinez let haircut States.” did you want to be when you
{has since on stage, All this talk must have had grew up?
fiadapted the and also the some inﬂuence on Freire, because A: “I used to think about planes
I:play into a first time he came to the United States and a lot. I drew planes, built some
iistage produc- thatIwillap- began his education in English at planes with Lego and collected
;?tion that will pear nude. Harper College in Palatine, Ill., models to scale. Maybelwanted
ijopen on Fri- The audi- where he attended college for two to be a F-16 Air Force pilot or a
fgday, Feb. 4: ence gets semesters. This was an intensive 747 commercial pilot, or I just
52 F alstaﬂ the rear English as a second language pro— wanted to travel a lot.”
 Falstaff is view.” gram. After completing the pro— Q: What is your favorite Ameri-
iwhat has been T h e gram, Freire decided that he liked can food?
frcalled a show defi— life in America, and decided to stay. A: “An American meal I like is
'-“quirky, arro- Prwro counesy rr). Mmrm nitely prom- He attended Northern Illinois New England Clam Chowder with
gant adapta- _ , _ _ _ _ _ ises some University in Dekalb, Ill., for three Conch fritters from the FloridaKeys
tion of several M'cah Tolman (left’ as Hotspur) and Francis Mcwllllams Ought’ as Prince Henry) battle In Falstaff’ action/ad- semesters. He then went to get his andNew York style cheesecake for
0 f the stage adaptation of Orson Welles’ Chimes at Midnight. This Shakespeare adaptation opens Verrrure and AA degree rrr Liberal Arrs rrr desserrr probably a Robert
Shakespeare’s Friday, Feb- 4 and runs through Feb- 7 in the Lenfest Centen great com— Truman College inChicago, inad- Mondavi 1997 FuméBlanc Reserve
plays.” It runs edy. Tolman dition to managing six shops for wine from Napa Valley is good to
through the life of Falstaff and tells The play cannot be totally classi— When Brian came along, I thought, cited his favorite scenes as a Duty Free International at O’Hare accompanyameal like this.”

Q: What,is your favorite food
overall?

A: “I love to eat and to cook,
and in 1992, I worked as a Pastry
Chef at Le Francais, a French res-
taurant in Wheeling, Illinois. I also
helped to write restaurants re-
views during my internship at
Pride Magazine last Spring. . . I
cook everyday and I can cook a
little of everything . . . I have
learned to appreciate different
types of cuisine and I do not re-
ally have a speciﬁc type of food I
prefer over others.”

Q: What is the biggest differ-
ence between Venezuela and the
U.S.?

A: “The biggest difference
right now between life in the
U.S. and in Venezuela is that
Venezuela’s democratic system
is endangered under the gover-
nance of populist President

Ks‘-

 

   , _ I . . . ter graduation? (paratrooper, as well) Hugo
  * ’ * t ' ‘‘ I ' I ' r r “Tha1- is A: “I want to be ready to go Chavez who dissolved the Con-
  4 . ,‘ , ~ g ‘ .. 72.:   r 1 I  ,_ , back to work for a magazine and gress, and rewrote the constitu-
“H _  V; 7: r  ‘ ~   I I 3300 P-mv ‘ L€Ct‘~11'e¥W¢nd}’ Sha1ilsauth.0T0f“A4 one rehable eventuallylwantto startmyown.” tion. Cuba’s President Fidel
I 6 . A t ' I  7 . Remm *0 Modesty-3’ Lee Ch_3P33- , P I w  n d S O C k " Q: What is your favorite show? Castro is a close friend of Presi-
, Booksigningand reception.  ' A: “Michael Moore’s ‘The dent Chavez.”
 di3t°1Yf°11°Win33tﬂ1€AlI1l_1lni ..:f75*. ' G°V- Frank Awful Truth.’ llike his straightfor- Currently, Freire is enjoying his
House.   , . Keg-ﬁng  wardhintervievir/ing stylerr The  [frrrere and tiwgependent life in
sues e presen s are con oversia erica, a .
Thursday, Feb. 3  »  e .
7:00 pm. Basketball (W)."W&L-‘vs. ,   
Bridgewater College. Warner Center.
Friday, Feb. 4.  I   .      
I , 7:30 p.m. Film Society. “AmisIad”*(USA,—. . r
Monday’ Jan. 31 V lf998r)),crlrirectéd by iteven Spielberg. . The R] ng—tum
8:00 p.m. ConcertGuild Barbaraand Gerhardt Sm TS“: §:fr.eS‘"f‘F':rr;r5rr,. Ada red Phi is looking for
Suhrstedts, piano duettists. Johnson ' pm‘ :2, ectedb ‘JD Marrrnéz rgerrer _ _ _
Theatre, LenfestCenter. Forreservations ,2;%ear11_r:Lenfe3/Stbénter . r ‘ r gnthuslastlc Wr1t_
calltheBoxOfﬁceat463-8000. _ . ’ ' ' ' . . .
.. 8:00 p.m. Lip Sync Contest. Sponsored by, ers to J Orn rts Staff
SARAH (Students Against r .
Tuesday, Feb. 1 . . Rockbridge Area Hunger)to beneﬁt.  and Contribute
:7'.00 p.m.i Basketball (W). W&L vs.Randolph- local food pantries. Student ActiVi~ .
V  Macon Women'sCollege.Wame_r’ ~'~ ties Pavilion.”  I . s   weekly: WI‘1t€I'S
.  "Center. ‘ t d f S
'7:00p.m. ,ContactLecture.“Panden'ngtoFeai“. the 4 Saturday, Feb. 5 .   r Wan e or new 9
‘ , Media's Crisis Mentality,” John Stossel, 1:00 _m_ 0 re BrbadeaSr_§sL‘a'Traviara,.b r .
V _ _ ; ABCNews.LeeChapel. r p Vavr/LUR_FM(91:_5)‘  r r ‘y Sports’ features’
7=30iun- .Winter_2000 P01iti°SFi1mf8S*-“La 3:00 p.m. Basketball (M), W&L ivs.iEastern opinions, and hu-
. . : Traviata” (1986) directed by Franco Mennonite University wamer .
Ziﬁirelli.Thre‘e-act operainltalianwith center‘-_ . 7 L p 11101‘!  New ldeas
. .  ’ I English Subﬁﬂeskoom Zzllcschoot 7:30 p.m. International PerforrningArts Series. V r
8:00-pan. “Concert Guild. Barbara and Gerhardt Kbae chi Ensemb1epre5en¢3 » are always W6 '
 - . . . ’Suhrstedts, piano duettists. Johnson e1assiea1mu5i¢ofviemam,Lee
, ’ Theatre, LenfestCenter. . chapel, « , , ‘  I Come: too‘
_  rt . . . 7:30 pan. Film Society. “Amistad.” Trouba- , ' 6 art Of
, Wednesday, Feb. 2 , dour Cinema. ~ C°m_e b p h_
7:30p.m. ' Wrestling. W&L vs. Southern Virginia 8:00 pm. Theatre Series. “Falstaﬁ‘.” Keller the Rmg—tum  1 .__r V
I » L 2 ”C9"°g°'Wm“°'.9°“t7" .. 10'30pm ;hsf9:ilrfi=liji:.nfestCenter' \ team! For more In" An Orson Welles’ Adaptation of Shakespeare
7:30p.m. Wmter2000PolincsFihnfesL La : ' ' V. . . C arm S. achr formation can the
A “ ' Traviata”(1986)directedby Franco “°30p‘m' "Elma ~° on’ ‘gm ' ’  b 4 5 7 20 O O: .,, 8 '4
A ‘ ' ”Zet’frrel1i.R"oom22l,C-School. , _ ofﬁce at 462-4060, ' r r * » '3 - '“ - _
8:00p.m., I ConcertGuild.~BarbaraandGerhardt, 5Und0Y. Feb° 6 V ‘  and let our Voice be  - 6,  ° 2. [)-l”l”| - ‘in: mm
’   Suhrstedts, piano duettists. ' 2:00 p.m. Theatre Series. “Falstaff.” Keller y K r  _ Tr t _ Q .  _ f N t C . ._
, Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center Th6afr6,LeIlf€St Cenfelﬁ heard! (I: O‘. ‘ ’ ’ 1 Ca ' C ( ' 1 ( I S '( " 1 LO ' _ ,
Directed by J. D. Martinez

 

 

 

@112 iﬁittg-tum lﬂhi

rum SPORTS ,.

Generals’ effort to humble Hampden-Sydney falls short

ByMike Weil . .  .  .  _

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals treated a rare packed
Warner center to a commendable effort on Wednesday,
but fell short against the nationally top-ranked Hampden-
Sydney, 56-49.

The number one ranked squad in Division III basketball
sprinted out to a 17-3 lead, but the Generals would not be
deterred. They chipped and clawed their way back into the
contest, going into the locker room down by only ﬁve at
the half, 28-23.

W&L kept this momentum up in the second half as they
continued to cut into the deﬁcit. They climbed all the way
back with 7:51 remaining, tying the game at 41.

A questionable 10 seconds call crushed the Generals
momentum however, as the Tigers begam to pull away.

W&L had one last run in them cutting the Hampden-
Sydney lead to three with 28 seconds to play. The Tigers
would go on to make their free throws down the stretch for
a seven-point victory.

The Generals were led by freshman Toussaint
Crawford, who totaled 12 points on 5-7 shooting. Crawford
has displayed true star potential this season, hitting big
shots in the big games and emerging as a leader on the

   
 

 

C0ll1'lI.

Senior Brian Ricketts added eight points and nine boards

for W&L.

The Generals’ outstanding defense performed well,
holding the Tigers to a season-low 33 percent shooting
from the ﬂoor, and only 56 points, also a season-low.

“Defense was the reason we were able to hang with this
team,” said Crawford. “Defense was the most important

thing for us.”

An unsung hero for the Generals was their sixth man on
the court, the crowd. For the first time all season, General
fans came out in huge numbers, helping generate uncom-

mon electricity in the Warner center.

“The crowd was great,” said Crawford. “Playing in front
of that crowd was probably the best sports moment I’ve

ever had.”

This crowd prompted Coach Jeff Lafave to write a carn-
pus e-mail thanking the student body for their support and
encouraging them to lend the same support for future

' ODAC match-ups.

After the defeat the Genrals’ record moved to 5-10, 4-8 in the
ODAC, while I-lampden-Sydney remained unbeaten at 17-0.

W&L faced Villa Julie on Sunday in the Warner Center
and came out on top, 80-69. The Generals used a season-
high 50 percent shooting from the ﬁeld and went 10 of 15
from three-point range to garner the victory.

W&L hits the road again Wednesday to face
Shenandoah. Tip-off is set for 7:30 p.m.

 

Women’s basketball
splits two contests

Miller tops W&L’s all-time scoring mark

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s women’s
basketball team endured another week
of mixed results in ODAC competition,
defeating Lynchburg on Thursday 61-
60 before falling to Guilford on Satur-
day 70-55.

The Generals traveled to Lynchburg
on Thursday and returned with a vic-
tory by the smallest of margins. After
shoting 51.9 percent in the ﬁrst half,
W&L went into the locker room with a
commanding 36-17 lead.

Lynchburg fought back hard to be-

‘’ gin the second half. They battled back
 iv to a ﬁve point advantage, 58-53, with

only three minutes left in regulation.

With ﬁve seconds left senior guard

  Jessica Morton went to the line with
 ' the score still notched at 60, and she
_. made one of two free throws to give
, the Generals the important conference
 _A victory.

The close ﬁnish was not the only

'; drama of the game, as W&L senior
 Ansley Miller scored eleven points to
"  increases her career total to 1084

Senior Chad Casto, and juniors

 Josh Chamberlain and John Sensing
ii" each tallied 3-0 records in leading the

. Washington and Lee wrestling team

, , to a 1-2 record at the Western Mary-
 land Quadrangular on Saturday
«,  evening in Westminster, Md.

W&L (3-3, 2-2 Centennial) began

 the evening with a narrow 21-16 loss
if * to Ursinus College. The Generals

 quickly rebounded, however, claiming

Cf decisive 42-6 victory over

§

_ W&L then went on a small run of

 :1 their own. Sophomore forward Jessica
‘  Mentz was able to tie the score at 60
 with a layup.

points. That effort put Miller over the
top and broke W&L’s all-time scoring
mark previously held by Chrissy
Burghardt.

Miller, through it all, still want the
focus on the team.

“It’s exciting to be a part of a pro-
gram that has grown so much and to
be in the record books,” she said.

“The season can go in any direc-
tion from this point, and we need to
focus on making the climb back up.”

After their exciting win Thursday
the Generals traveled to Greensboro
Saturday to take on ODAC rival
Guilford. W&L again came out strong
in the first half to take a 33-30 halftime
lead on 52.4 percent shooting.

The game remained close in the
second half, and hte Generals trailed
51-48 with little over seven minutes
leﬁin the game. Guilford then went on
a 10-0 run, effectively closing out the
previously tight contest.

W&L now maintains an overall record
of 9-7 and an even 6-6 in the ODAC.

The Generals host Randolph-Ma-
con Women’s College next Tuesday.
The match-up will be the third in a sting
of ten ODAC regular season games.
W&L has already faced R—MWC once
this season and gained one of their
most convincing road wins, 69-44.

hr Wrestling goes 1-2 at
‘J Western Maryland

Swarthmore. The match was high-
lighted by pin by Sensing in the 285-
pound classiﬁcation.

Following the win over
Swarthmore, W&L suffered a 27-12
loss to the host Green Terror.

Other Generals claiming victories in
contested matches were junior Greg
Valentine, sophomore Ezra Morse, and
freshmen John Polena and Ericson
Davis.

—Courtesy of Sports Information

Photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

    
  

 

Photo by Tiffany Fnedel/Assistant Photo Editor

ABOVE: Freshman Toussaint Crawford lays another one in for
two against Hampden-Sydney. Crawford’s leadership and
athletism have already made him a standout on the court. He
led the team with 12 points.

ABOVE LEFT: Senior center Brian Ricketts plows through the
Tiger’s defense. Ricketts posted eight points and nine
rebounds for the W&L’s cause against Hampden-Sydney.

LEFT: A huge crowd of W&L basketball fans turned out to see
the Generals take on the number one ranked Tigers. Coach
Jeff Lafave and the rest of the Generals were appreciative of
the turnout and support and hopes that the crowds will
continue to come out and rally for W&L in future conference _
games.

 

Photo by Tiffany Fnedel/Assistant Photo Editor

You are invited to attend the

Internship
& Job Fair

February 3, 2000

11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Science Center

Summer opportunities in industries like
arConsu|ting s.4rBusiness»:trSciencew:#.r
at Public Relations it N0n—pr0fit7£*?
i*:>|nternationa|»:t>Campsw:r

w.\si u.\(:'m\ .\\n I ,i=.r«. l =.\'l\'IaI«sI FY

ERVICES

 

ﬁ o
cu ° 3‘
en E‘ E
E 0 Q
N c 0
PAGE 6 E E '6 JANUARY 31, 2000 h
R I It I t’ f IA ' t
ea [)0 1 ICE! par 16S 01‘ 1'63 IIl€I‘lCaIl V0 BPS _
By Kevin MCManemin Leno With an 0Jjoke..lt’s going to be debt as one of the greatest problems In general, though, I was very tory clearly shows that Gore is eithera It is with that noble goal in mind
SHAMEBASED MAN a long, tedious campaign if they don’t of our age and somehow managed to proud of the Republican party. They blatant liar ora complete idiot. that I present the following parties,
ﬁnd something else to make fun of him blame Bill Clinton for it. Huh? Either obviously studied the election of ‘92 so, 1 wish the Republicans hick in none of which receive any attention
Wow, that Mock Con was some- for -—and quickly. the fonner Secretaiy of Education ain’t closely and learned how to make the the upcoming campaign, yet, at the from the “mainstream” media. Their ,
thing else, huh? What was it — seven My other favorite thing about the too good at math, or he conveniently vice president of the United States look same time, I’m a bit sick of the simplic- ideas may strike you as “crazy,” but
or eight speakers in a row that all felt Convention was how each skipped the chapters in history that likean utter and complete jackass. Gore ity of our us vs. them two party sys- just remember that 225 years ago some
the need to mention Al Gore’s bone- Republikaner praised Reagan as pretty clearly show that the national deﬁcit got the full Quayle treatment —— and tem. Think of how many more candi- guys had a “crazy” little idea called
headed “I invented the Internet” much the greatest leader since and national debt ballooned under this time it’s fully deserved. AlGore’s dates there would be to make fun ofif freedom,and they formed the greatest
quote? Thanks, fellas, for running that Alexander the Great and then Bill Ronald Reagan like Clinton’s waistline quote that Bill Clinton is one of the the polls reﬂected the true diversity of nation the world has ever scene. De- 0?
line into the ground faster than Jay Bennett went on to lament the national at an all-you-can-eat buffet. greatest Presidents in American his— opinions and values in America! spite Texas.
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII // I ’/I / 1111111111 ogooooooooooogoogo
u I ' res /«rug I /J/((19/.s'« (I) 10- o , ‘ fr 0
:   ET :    Vtru lent e/yon.93/-o(ro4(/({yt/I1tasv7- :   I : 7 4 : ‘
. . !M»1.Sﬂ«1't‘l3[t1't7}J£ < < t I . 1-99," for M, .
u p ar |  t code duo (1/«e-/‘err/(/y/.s'(;//-1 | n a  | , y 9 .
: lj : p Y F ﬁfty co/z.s'¢j()u.s'» (15011//1'///Stu-(/n I v I : ﬂ0'"’l¢O' pﬂ  :
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII L———————-—-il oooooooooooooooooo
Nominee: “Herb Man” Nominee: Dr. LaTeisha Hembree- Nominee: none of your business Nominee: Bryson Shaw Nominee: Preston S. Davidson IV Nominee: Candice Henson g 9'
Platform: Marijuana is, like, illegal Miller, University of Oregon Platform: It is estimated that there Platform: Now, hey, come on. I’ll Platform: Whooooo! Frat party! Platform: If you’re a young girl be-
in this country, and we in the Stoner Abstract: The purpose of this ar- are currently six billion people living admit that] loved “Rent.” Who didn’t? Ladies and gentlemen, I stand be- tween the ages of 9-14, Tigerbeat
Party totally think that blows. If ticle is to prove that the country on the planet earth — for us in the It’sjustagreat show with greatmusic fore you today to unveilthe fratparty’s magazine is putting together atotally
elected, we promise to make marijuana would bebesz governed by a commit- virulent misanthrope party, that’s —- and I don’t see why in this society two—point plan to American prosper- awesome political party just for ),
non-illegal by 2005, or 2007, or, like, as tee of learned college professors. about 5,999,999,997 too many. I can’t enjoy a great show without be- ity. By the twin cornerstones of drink- you! ! ! !!
soon as we get around to it. Platform: As the paradigms of rep- Currently the mainstream parties ing labelled “gay” by my friends and ing and hazing, we hope to fully ini- We’re totally committed to, like, a
Our opponents say that marijuana resentative democracy have shifted are debating various proposed gun colleagues. tiate all Americans into prosperity and lot of real serious issues that way af-
rots the brain and saps the energy from greatly since its inception in the days control measures. Well to gun control As the nominee for President for happiness. fect our lives.
smokers, but We heartily disagree. We of Pericles and the Greeks, nonethe- supporters we propose this simple the straight guys who enjoy Broad- Currently our nation is plagued Issues such as: CUTE BOYS!!!! ‘I’
think that marijuana is a thing Which less, history has shown that the stron- truth: guns don’t kill People; heroes way musicals but are really self-con- with a crop of lazy,_good-for-nothing We’re the only major party committed
can be used in a manner in Which the gest democracies are those built upon kill people. scious about it party, I’d just like to immigrants. That’s because the U.S. is to putting our national resources to-
case is that. . - damn, Where Was l go- aﬁnn foundation of lecturing and pub- Furthermore, We not only support point out that I have a steady girl— too easy on them. Our belief is, if you ward the conservation of our nation’s
ing With this? Oh, like, marijuana is lishing. (Sorensen, 1997) As a Woman’s right to Choose an abor- friend. Her name is Erin, we’ve been want to become an American, you’ll mostprecious resource: BOY BANDS! V
totally. . . uh. . . ha ha ha ha, Oh man, Thucydides noted, “q’Q'Zol'JZo' ", X, tion — We heartily endorse it. The dating for 16 great months, and yes, have to earn it. Through a rigorous N’Sync and Backstreet Boys will re-
I’m totally making an ass up myself ’Y W079, "YQ’Q'.” government should provide incentives fellas, we have had frequent sex. That regiment of immigrant hazing, we can place those old fogeys on the Supreme
here, dude. llike, lhad this Speech all Although the media portrays all for Women Who bravely Choose to doesn’t sound very gay to me, does insure that only those who truly de— Court if we are elected.
Worked out last night While Todd and academics as stuffy and boring, keep this mind-numbingly stupid de— it? serve to be initiated Americans will Besides conservation of domestic
I Were Watching “The Matrix,” (that (Fleming, l99l)the aggregate data has generate race of human beings from I’ve never looked at another guy make the cut. Give us your tired, your hunks, our foreign policy is totally it
movie is SO TOTALLY F***ED UP yet to fully support that conclusion, further crowding the planet with their and thought he was attractive —— hon- poor, your hungry. . . and we’ll beat geared towards bringing foreign studs
when you’re high!) really, but, ha ha According to Dr. Henry P. ﬁlthy chromosomes. Forced castration estly. Well, I mean, I can tell the differ- the hell out of them. like RICKY MARTIN and ENRIQUE
ha ha. . . Lesserman’s 1994 study, only 58 per- for sex offenders is a good start, but ence between ugly guys and good- Our ﬂrst priority, however, must be IGLESIAS to America!!!!! If they don’t
Oh yeah! We’ve got other platfonns cent of academics are described by we must build on this. How about looking guys, I mean, what women the future of America: the children. want to come, we’ll send way hotma-
too in the Stoner Party. We’re notjust colleagues as “insufferably dull and dumping birth control pills in the wa- would think isthe difference, because Under the current tyrannical system rines (boys in uniform are sooooo T
about primo bud for all ages. Like, boring,” while 27 percent are de— ter supply? I don’t think they’re good looking of government, only those2l years of cute!) to invade any country that re-
we’re totally for government subsidies scribed as “very boring,” Most inter- Health care and Social Security? myself. Not at all. Really. , age and older are allowed to enjoy the fuses to ship its hottest hunks to
for Doritos and Slim Jims and Phish estingly, the study found that fully Hey, we’ve read Darwin, and we know Look, I’m getting a bit off the sub- life-affirming joy that alcohol provides. America.
bootlegs. If elected President, I hope 6.54 percent of academics are de— that keeping alive the weak and the ject here. The platform of our party is If the frat party is elected, we promise Tigerbeat's Totally for girls politi— -3
to have in every car cassette deck in scribed by others as “not too terribly elderly just ain’t the way of nature. simple: we believe that guys should to drop the legal drinking age to four- cal party!!! is not just about hunks,
Americaabootleg copy of Phish’s epic boring.” (Lesserman, 1994) Midnight basketball for inner-city be able to walk out of “Les Mis” or and-a-half.All Americans will soon be though. We’re also about girl power
-lan. l6, 1999 Boulder, Colorado Show Clearly the data supports the un- youth? We think midnight 1’unning- “Miss Saigon” or even “Kiss of the able to enjoy the freedom to numb the and stuff. With us in charge, expect
(including the 45-minute long im- derlying conclusion that, contrary to into-traffic Would keep more kids out Spider Woman” with their heads held mind that it is our God-given right - way-inspirational leadership from awe-
proved jam of “Tweezer” and Trey popular belief, not all academics are of gangs. high and their wrists hanging reso- nay —~ our duty to uphold! some cabinet members like Britney V
Anastasio’s ﬁne wah—pedal work on horribly dull pointyheads incapable of Vote the virulent misanthrope party lutely non-limp at their sides. We in- Our founding fathers from Sam Spears and Christina Aguilera!
what many consider the deﬁnitive live providing inspiring leadership to the When you go into the voting booths tend to support Broadway with tax Adams to George Killian knew what it So get out there and get involved!
Version 0f“l’eaCheS En Regalia”). masses. Ergo, logically speaking, an next election. We’re at least honest dollars, to foster the “Lion King”s and meant to be Americans. Uphold their Show the world what girl power is all
So as you can see, we, like. . . oh academic would vis-a—vis in fact have enough to admit that we’re only look- “Cabaret”s of tomorrow. legacy by voting the frat party to about and help elect the coolest, hip- ’
crap, gotta run, Scooby’s on. (continued on pages 17-456) ing to screw you. But I’m not gay. Really. Honestly! power. Whoooo! Frat party rules! pest government ever! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!
0 0, 0 0
Wherefor be it resolved on this, the twenty-ninth day of January in the year of our Lord 2000, g‘-t P S P   p 
that the student body at Washington and Lee University did convene for a mock-convention, and I
being ﬁlled with political zeal, they did draw up a new Bill of Rights with which they agreed to be ' _ was by those brave asterisks.
governed, overthrowing the shackles of tyranny from an oppressive regime, and rededicating  a    . . . Alright, had enough sarcasm for today? Good. Let’s
the school to the principles of student self-governance and personal responsibility on which get d0W" to business-
Washingmn and Lee was once founded By Kevin MCManemin . Putting asterisks in the place of the ﬁnal letters of a blue “
A4/1 LC0 NTENT [N THE MDDLE word is not only patently ridiculous, but in a college paper
it only makes us look as if staffed by a bunch of geekish
amznhmznt 1 Last week Taylor Ruilova said “sh**” in his article in prudes. There are no children to “protect” — there are
Cilhz ahminiatratinn ﬁhall makz nu lama infringing an ti]: ﬁghtﬁ [If the ﬁtuhzntﬁ 11] The Phi. And you know, I’ve spent every waking moment only college students who know exactly what these words
since then trying to ﬁgure out just what the f“‘** he meant. mean and who use them every single day. The “vulgar” st

hunt kegs in thcir frathouscs.

message is still being communicated just ﬁne. The aster-
isks only thoroughly embarrass us.

No, no, no, no, they argue, you misunderstand, as is
common with vulgar primates such as yourself. The aster-
isks do not make us look ridiculous —— they make the paper
look classy by upholding common decency.

Well, I submit that in an era when the common man uses
these “bad words” commonly, that is the new common
decency. Censoring words that almost everybody uses ,,
only serves to uphold some outmoded, prudish, nonsen-
sical notion of acceptable speech. Just as we don’t hold
ourselves to old notions of fashion or conduct, why should
we hold ourselves to ancient notions of speech?

Please take a second to e—mail The Phi with a simple yet I
brutally direct message: f“‘** this asterisk bu"‘*sh**.

I mean, hell, was Taylor saying “shot,” or “shop,” or “ship,”
or “shod, or “shed?” Damn it, I want to know!

Then it hit me — “it” being The Phi’s copy editor for my
using the words “damn it” in this article. But as I regained
consciousness on the cold ﬂoor of the Phi ofﬁce, I sud-
denly realized what Taylor was saying — he was actually
trying to say a word that some people might think is a
naughty combination of four letters used to denote fecal
matter, but. . . don’t worry folks. . . THANK SWEET JESUS
CHRIST that our editors rushed in just in time to save the
readers from enduring Ruilova’s onslaught of ﬁlth.

Thank God that those asterisks were placed where those
two naughty letters would have gone! Another genera-
tion of impressionable W&L youth was left in the dark
about what Taylor was really trying to say, confused as I

uutznhtncnt Z
ﬁtuhcnts have the right to sag whatever than bloohg 1lI2ll fccl like without being
subizcteh to persecution bit the or. thought police.

I

umzuhmznt 3
Ertuhcnts hum: thc right to at fair trial; not the right to be railronhch out of school
for sharing gout mznlnlun iust because the iE.(!I. urns borch that mouth.

amznhmcnt 4
Eh: stuhznt boot; has the right to have at bunh they uctunllg likt plug for ZEE.

umcnhmznt 5
Eznurc shall not be uses by faculty members as an excuse for sloth unit
incompetence (unit non know who gnu are).

THE OFFICE or SPECIAL »
PROGRAMS HAS SUMMER JOBS

AVAILABLE FOR W&L STUDENTS.
amcnhmznt E

Eh: official mascot of the school is herzbg changes from “the Ecncrul" to "Ehé

Alumni College — Resident Assistants
$33.13.-hriuin’-Ecam-s1oilliu'-ﬁouthzrn-animal."

Five Resident Assistants will spend six weeks
meeting and assisting Alumni, professors, and
other interesting friends of W&L during Alumni )\
College. Responsibilities are varied and include
attending meals and other activities with guests,
transportation of guests, and maintaining rooms
in Gaines Hall. Employment is from June 13 - 3
Aug. 4, 2000 and includes room, board, and tips
in addition to salary. Application deadline is Feb.
28, 2000. For information call 463-8723.

amcuhmznt 7
Eruel nun unusual punishments will onlg be uhministcrzh outing the Designates
nlchgcshin nzrioh anh bn fullg trainch nun qunliftzh ulcogzmnsters.

» amzuhmzut B
Eh: next time E&® tries charging at frnthouse $411 for moving 8 chair from the
thirh floor to the first ﬂoor. they will hone their legs broken as the mob extortion

ruckzmrs 2 are.
ﬂl Q Summer Scholars — Counselors

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic
program for rising high school seniors.
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 y

amcuhmzut H
Eherc is NOD umznhmznt B!

nmznhmznt 111
Ehut all rights not given to the nitministrution are rzscruch big the stuhznts uuh
thzir nlcitgzs, rcsnectiuzlg.

“I can ’t wait to work for
Special Programs when I
grow up and go to W&L”

-—Raina Milling ’14

students in Graham-Lees dormitory and plan
evening and weekend activities. Employment is
from June 28 - July 30, 2000. Application
deadline is Feb. 21, 2000. For further
information call 463-8722.

‘I

€

"378. 7:35

VOLUME 102, NO. 20

Two arrested
for burglary

County residents captured
through use of checks stolen
from students’ country house
during Christmas break

By Christie Phillips
STAFF WRITER

Two men were arrested last week for the burglary of a
Washington and Lee University student country house
over Christmas break.

David Jason Fix and James Edwin Lemon, both
Rockbridge County residents, were charged with grand
larceny and breaking and entering.

“They stole a lot of stuff, like TVs and a Sony
PlayStation, but we got most ofit back,” saidjunior Will
Baker who lives at the burglerized house. “I didn’t get my
TV back because the guys apparently threw it in the river.
That’s a smart thing to do.”

Baker and his housemates reported the burglary to
the Rockbridge County Sheriffs department when they
got back from Christmas break.

“There didn’t appear to be any forced entrance,” said
junior Will Ogilvie, another resident. “The deputies said
they could only check the pawn shops around the area
for clues, but they told us not to count on anything.”

Apparently the burglars didn’t need much help from
the police in getting caught.

“They had stolen my checkbook,” said junior Jim
Wilboum, a third housemate. “I didn’t realize until I was
alerted of a $550 overdraw on my account.”

Once authorities realized that the burglars were writ-
ing checks, they traced the checks to find the men. One

,check led authorities straight to the burglars.

“They ordered a pizza and had it delivered to their
house and paid for it with one of my checks,” said
Wilbourn. “All the police had to do was look up the ad-
dress of the delivery. We’re not dealing with the bright-
est thieves here.” .

Fix and Lemon had also stolen an electronic personal
planner from Wilboum.

“They erased all my information and put in all their
friends and connections,” said Wilboum. “So when the
police got hold of that, they started calling all the num-
bers to find out where our stuff was.”

In addition to burgling the country house, Fix and
Lemon had stolen equipment from three fraternity house
basements.

“They took speakers from two fraternity houses, and
sound equipment from a third,” said Sheriff R. W. Day.
“Some of these items they had sold or given away, but
we’ve tried to return them to the Owners.”

Fix and Lemon were arrested Jan. 25. Lemon posted
bond last Friday, and Fix bonded on Tuesday.

“I’m mad they got off so quickly,” said Wilboum.
“We’re doing everything we can to get them back in jail.”

The winning Fiji team took home a $300 prize.

Nob.ody’s home. . . or is there?

U112 iftittg-tu

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

‘iii’/\.‘7~.‘~‘

LExINGToN, VIRGINIA 24450

111

tlmtfti G. LEVEIE‘-3N LIESRAHY
~§!N't ‘ = I '

U? ‘Z‘1S1T'Y

 

   

’ 7A\'-‘«"‘rlZ lpﬁ
if \’.\‘.:;L .: ~.'.~

 

FEB 0 9 ztitit/J’  ‘ or

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2000

Lip Sync. . . tamer than ever?

Though lacking in
debauchery, Lip
Sync made up for
it with the money

By Michael Crittenden

Assocu TE EDITOR

Washington and Lee students
packed the Student Activities Pa-
vilion Friday night to witness this
year’s Lip Sync competition, which
saw pledges painted blue, the
usual debauchery we have come
to expect, and the overall award
for best act going to Fiji for their
rendition of “Push It”.

Tame in comparison to previ-
ous shows, including the infamous
I998 show which included more
nudity, destruction, and lack of
taste than was ever thought pos-
sible, this year's show was quite
successful in raising money for
and promoting awareness of, SA-
RAH (Students Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger).

Each year, the money raised is
used to purchase food stuffs for
citizens in Rockbridge County
who are without. According to
Dining Services Director Jerry
Darrell, who is one of the leading
forces behind the Lip Sync, this
year's show was a huge success.

“It was a great show, as good
as any we have ever had,” Darrell
said. “We raised approximately
$850 at the door, and we believe
another $1,500 from people swip-
ing money home.”

The acts for the show mainly
consisted of each Greek
organization’s pledges performing
choreographed dances with very
little lip syncing going on. Some
standout acts included Sigma
Chi’s rendition of “Praise You” by
Fatboy Slim, and Beta’s Talking
Heads performance.

Not to be outdone, the sorori-
ties, who historically have had
much better acts than the fraterni-
ties, also put on a great show. One
of two-time defending champion
Chi Omega’s acts included girls

_ dressed in yellow “pledge shirts” get-

PUsIIIN’1T: The Fiji pledge class, under the guise of “Sexual Chocolate”
prize anyway during Friday night’s annual Lip Sync competition. All money raised benefitted SARAH.

ting mock-hazed by another girl act-
ing as a brother to the tune Of“I Will
Survive”.

In the end however, it was the
pledges from Fiji that took the crown.
The last to perform, the Fiji act in-
cluded a Chippendale-like strip show
when they took off tank-tops with
each of the five sororities written on
them. The act drew quite a response
from the mainly female audience,
which clapped long and hard for the
topless Fiji dancers.

According to Fiji pledge Ben
Bryant, the win was well deserved and
welcomed.

“We wanted to do a really good
job like the sophomores did last year,
and it was in the back of our minds
that we had a chance,” Bryant said.
“All we had to do was push it. . . push
it good.”

The show was hosted by senior
Dan Grattan, who is the student-head
of SARAH, and junior John Jensen,
who emceed the event.

DOMINATRIx?: Freshman Chi-O pledge Austin C

, skips the full monty but takes first

 

photo by Tiffany riedel/Assistant Photo Editor
alhoun in ﬁshnets and leather.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

7 photo by Lisaiin/assistanhto Editor
Boys WITH BRAINS: Freshman Fiji pledge Brian Carmody scribbles down a question to an answer
during Wednesday night’s “Pledge Jeopardy”, sponsored by the Freshmen Leadership Council.

LPD and students

discuss problems

and city policies
By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Fraternity noise violations and
MIPs were just some of the pressing
issues students tossed at local law
enforcement in last week’s “What
Are Your Rights?” discussion.

‘‘I hope tonight’s session will help
everyone gain some enlightenment
on both sides. . . [and] further agree-
ment on your status as citizen-stu-

dents,”imoderator Lad Sessions said.

Sponsored by the new student
organization, Living in Lexington as
Citizen-Students (LILACS), the talk
drew about 30 students who ques-
tioned police from Lexington and
Rockbridge County. Lexington Po-
lice ChiefBruce Beard, Rockbridge
County Sheriff R.W. Day, W&L se-
curity Director Mike Young and
everyOne’s favorite special enforce-
ment ofﬁcer Roger Clark were among
the panelists.

On the issue of alcohol. police
said they can cite anyone with open
container who is in view ofthe pub-
lic drinking, even ifthey’re on pri-

Getting to “know your rights”

vate property. Police can also charge
students with drunk in public ifthey
spot any sign of intoxication. They
insisted the charge is only to pro-
tect students from injuring them-
selves later. '
After Fall Terrn’s rash of early fra-
ternity party shutdowns, students
were anxious to hear how to avoid
them in the future. Police said every
fraternity should get a noise permit.
The city only allows parties to last
until ll a.m., but city council ex-
tended the party curfew to midnight
for W&L students. After midnight,

SEE ‘LILACS’ ON PAGE 2

 

February 7, 2000

OPINION:
Lame Lip Sync

(J11: ﬂing-tum iﬁlti

PAGE 3

Mysterious intruder doesn’t knock ﬁrst
or steal, just makes himself at home

By Christie Phillips

STAFF WRITER

Two country houses of female
Washington and Lee University stu-
dents have recently hosted some in-
truders while the owners were out.

The intruders are not there to
burgle the houses that they enter.

I They simply use the houses as if they

were their own homes, watching tele-
vision and relaxing on the couch.
They turn lights on at their leisure

and sometimes snoop through the
refrigerator.

“He never takes anything,” said
junior Virginia Brumby. “But it scared
us so much.”

Brumby and her roommates live
just outside of town on Sandbridge
Lane. With the belief Lexington and
the surrounding country to be fairly
safe, they have always left the back
door of their house unlocked.

“We don’t use the front door,”
said Brumby. “lt’s always locked and

bolted just for convenience so we
don’t have to hassle with it.”

When Brumby and her
housemates came home one day and
found the front door wide open, they
knew instantly that something was
wrong.

“We realized someone must be in
the house and we got so scared,” she
said. “We ran into a room and that’s
when we heard someone run down
the stairs and out the front door.”

Brumby called the sheriffs office,
but when deputies arrived, there was
no one near the house.

SEE ‘INTRUDER’ ON PAGE 2

W&LIFE:

It takes a campus. . .

SPORTS:
Basketball topples #1

LAsT WORD:
War on drugs

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

WRESTLE MANIA: Freshman Alex
Poor grapples with his SVC foe.

 

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor

 

 

PAGE 2

Ellie iﬁtng-tum iﬂhi

NEWS

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

Parking deck set to open March 1

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Lexington Special Enforcement Of-
ﬁcer R.D. Clark may have a lot less to
do come March 1.

The new parking deck should be
ﬁnished by the end of the month, ac-
cording to Mike _Iles, project superin-
tendent for the Haskell Co., the Jack-
sonville, F l. contractor building the
deck. The deck was originally set to
be completed in Jan.

“It's a moving target with the
weather,” Iles said. “The snow and
cold has created a lot of problems.”

Iles said freezing temperatures

cause problems when pouring con-
crete. The builders have tried to en-
close the deck and bring in kerosene
heaters to help keep the concrete
stable. The cold wasn’t the first prob-
lem encountered during construc-
tion. I
Local bedrock caused problems
when laying the foundation months
ago, Iles said. The rock directly un-
der the garage wasn’t hard enough
and builders had to drill deeper than
expected.

When completed, Washington and
Lee director of security Mike Young
said the new parking deck should
have better security than any other

parking facility in town.

“I’m totally satisﬁed with the se-
curity measures taken,” Young said.
“We didn’t pinch any pennies.”

The deck will hold several emer-
gency phones on every level and near
both elevators. A security camera sys-
tem will send several area shots to a
console in the security ofﬁce. A dis-
patcher will monitor the screens 24-
hours a day. The deck’s lighting will
be state-of-the-art in terms of safety
as well, Young said.

Young has also proposed to add
another ofﬁcer to general patrol.

“The new deck isn’t going to be a
place to worry,” Young said.

‘INTRUDER’ from page 1

The second encounter with the intruder followed the
same pattern.

“The house was cold when we came home, so we knew
the front door was open again,” Brumby explained. “We
ran into my housemate’s room, grabbed a butter knife
and turned on the alarm clock to scare anyone that was
in the house. It was stupid, but it’s what we thought
to do.”

When the women got up the nerve to search the
rest of the house they found that the TV and some
lights were on, but no one was there. Again they called
the police, who could find nothing when they came to
the house. '

“The police think it’s a weird townie who likes to
come in and use people’s houses,” said Brumby.
“We’rejust hoping it was no one too crazy. I think if it
was a murderer or something he would have confronted
us.”

Brumby and her housemates now lock all their doors
whenever they leave the house. Since they started
locking their doors, the women haven’t had any fur-
ther problems.

“Intruders are not real common, but things like that
happen once in a while,” said Sgt. Sutton of the Lex-
ington Police Department. “Most of these guys are
just freeloading, eating a free meal, sleeping, just sur-
viving I guess.”

‘LILACS’ from page 1

Junior Sanders Goodrich and her housemates also
had an intruder in their country house, located up the
road from Brumby’s house.

“Over Christmas, someone came and lived in our
house,” said Goodrich. “When we came back from
break there was food in the fridge that we hadn’t
bought, and previously locked bedroom doors were
unlocked.”

Goodrich and her housemates never encountered
the intruder.

“It looked like he just needed a place to hang out
for a couple of days,” she said.

The women think the intruder entered through the
windows, though they were not visibly tampered with.
They told their landlord about the incident, but never
called the police.

“Intruders are not always homeless,” said Sutton.
“I recall an incident two years ago ofa guy who would
intrude but never steal anything. He didn’t have to be
homeless, but he had a drug habit. He thought it was
more important to spend money on drugs than food
and shelter.”

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard warns area resi-
dents that the best way to avoid problems like this
and crime in general is to lock doors.

“Lock up to be safe,” he said. “Leaving a house or
car unlocked or open is just plain temptation.”

if police get a complaint they give the fraternity a warn-
ing and then a summons if they have to come back again
the same night. Beard said the best advice is to keep
people inside the party to reduce the noise.

Police also recommended that students register their
bike’s serial number with police to help in case it gets
stolen.

LILACS co-founder Thomas Field thought the dis-
cussion was a success for his embryonic group.

“We need to take a lot of steps and tonight was a big
step,” Field said. “Tonight got rid of a lot of stereotypes
about local law enforcement.” ‘ ’

Field got the idea for LILACS last spring when pro-
fessor of politics William Connelley said students could
compose a large voting block in the area if they were
registered to vote. LILACS sponsored a registration
drive last week and plans to bring more local ofﬁcials to
campus.

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

WHAT WOULD Miss MANNERS sAY?: Junior Justin Holton (left) crams one of the six hot dogs be

consumed in ﬁve minutes into his mouth.

john Comly: $50
buyer: jenny Thomas
Jacek Mucha: $30
buyer: Noelle Gamble
Rick Schnatz: $65
buyers: Avery Gholston and Stacy Kirnrnel
Lat Purcer: $145
buyer: Kate Blocher
Christian Batcheller: $30
buyer: Ashley Kensinger
Jon Stroebel: $90
buyer: Drew Powers
Spencer Liles: $50
buyer: Maggie Fagan
Dan Birdwhistell $65
buyer: Carly Nasca
Alex Wilkins: $60
buyer: Jane Ledlie
Thaxton Mauzy: $110
buyer: Drew Powers and Kate Blocher
Quincy Springs $110
buyer: Katherine Mead
Rob Naftel: $85
buyers: Karhlyn Pczcz, Lime Swarm, Alix Warren
Matt Howenstein: $65
buyer: Alison Becknell
Dan Grattan: $75
buyer: Huan Song

RESULTS or HABITAT FOR HUMANrrY’s
“SLAVE FOR A DAY” AUCTION:

Celtic

Connection

 

Find that s _ecial holiday gift! See
our selec ion of ﬁne im orted
goods from Ireland, Scot and, 85
other Celtic lands!

J-CWCIFY ' artwork 0 crystal ° china °sweaters
scarves ' throws 0 books 0 collectibles
Guinness items ' T-shirts ° music -food

Free Wrapping! Shipping Available.
10% 0/1" an y tartan lie or scarf with this ad

Don’t go home with the same old gifts! We have
something unique for every budget.

19 W. Nelson St.
(across the street from the movie theater)
Daily 10-5:30PM 8L Sundays

54-0-4-64—654-5
www.celticconnex.com

 

W&L String Quartet

Searching for some classy musical entertainment? Look
no further. W&L’s own Lovancy Ingram, Natalie Swope,
Allison MacQueen and Meghan Doyle want to play for
your function. The quartet may also feature clarinettist
Hayley Hall. Perfonning a mostly classical repertoire, the
group will also prepare other works upon request. Contact
Natalie at swopen@wlu.edu for additional information.

Stunning? Not to W&L students

The New York Times and Los Angeles Times both de-
scribed Arizona Sen. John McCain’s 18 percentage point
victory in the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 1 over Texas
Gov. George W. Bush as “stunning.” In Lexington, Va., the
students of Washington and Lee University responded
with a “ho-hum.”

That's because McCain's 18 point victory was exactly
what the school’s Mock Convention predicted on Jan 29.
McCain earned nine (53 percent) of New Hampshire’s 17
delegates, while Bush grabbed six (35 percent) and Steve
Forbes got two (12 percent).

W&L students were almost as impressive in Iowa a
couple of weeks ago. They picked Bush to beat Forbes by
21 percent in Iowa. Though Bush won by only 1 1 percent,
the students prediction was still two percentage points
better than the poll published by the Des Moines Register.

So what does McCain’s strong showing in New Hamp-
shire mean for the remainder of the Republican presiden-
tial race? Nothing if you continue to believe the W&L

. students. McCain earned just 83 delegates at the Mock

Convention as compared to 1,942 for Bush. W&L students
predict that McCain will carry only three states-Arizona,
New Hampshire and Vermont.

More information can be found on the Mock Conven-
tion web page.

Tuchler wins NSF grant

Matthew F. Tuchler, assistant professor of chemistry at
Washington and Lee University, has received an $86,000
grant from the National Science Foundation.

The award will be used to purchase a set of two re-
search grade lasers and supporting equipment to be used
in both introductory and upper level laboratory classes
and for research. David Sukow, assistant professor of
physics at W&L and Tom Williams, professor ofphys-
ics at W&L, are named as co-investigators of the grant
project.

“This equipment,” says Tuchler, “is part of the
ongoing commitment of the chemistry and physics
programs at Washington and Lee to introduce stu-
dents to state-of -the-art technologies early in their
college careers with the goals of enhancing their edu-
cational experience and preparing them to partici-
pate in active research programs at W&L.”

Tuchler joined the W&L chemistry department in 1998.
He earned his B.A. from Haverford College, his MS. at the
University of Chicago and his Ph.D. at the University of
Illinois at Urbana. Sukow joined the W&L faculty in the
fall of 1999. He received his B.A. from Gustavus Adolphus
College and his M.S. and Ph.D. from Duke University. Wil-
liams, head of the physics department, has been at W&L
since 1974.

Carlton Fletcher exhibit at W&L

Carlton Fletcher's show “Composing With Figures” will
be on exhibit at the Williams School from Feb. 18 through

March 31. He will give a talk about his work on Feb. 18 in
Room 221 of the Williams School at 6 p.m.

Fletcher, a founding member of the Washington Studio
School, is a painter, draftsman and printrnaker whose work
has been exhibited nationwide, with shows at the National
Academy of Art and the National Academy of Design in
New York City, the Phillips Collection and the Corcoran
Realist Gallery in San Francisco. He earned his B.F.A. from
Rhode Island School of Design and his M.F.A. from Ameri-
can University.

A review of his work by The Washington Post says his
ﬁgure studies in oil, paints and charcoals are “ﬁmily
grounded in classical traditions.and his series of moody
charcoal studies is not only ﬁne in itself, but reveals the
artist working toward a more ﬁnished version of the com-
position.”

Fletcher says he is passionate about ﬁgures: “As'stu-
dents of painting we admire Giotto, Masaccio, Caravaggio,
Cezanne, Degas and a host of other, but we hesitate to fol-
low their example. The question is: why study the masters of
ﬁgure composition unless we intend to give it a try?”

Strong publishes book on Carter

Robert A. Strong, the William Lyne Wilson Professor of
Politics at Washington and Lee University, is the author of
a new book, “Working in the World: Jimmy Carter and the
Making of American Foreign Policy” (Louisiana State Uni-
versity Press, 2000). Using nine detailed case studies based
on interviews with the participants and on recently released
documents, Strong examines how Carter addressed and
accomplished the work of foreign policy during his term.

“I ﬁnd much that was written about him when he was in
ofﬁce to be inaccurate,” said Strong, who is now working
on a book about fonner president George Bush. “He played

a much greater role in foreign affairs than he was given "

credit for. People said he was unable to control his divided
advisors. "Ihat’s not a fair portrait. Carter was fully in charge
and his advisors knew that.”

Zbigniew Brzezinski, Carter's national security advisor,
is quoted on the dust jacket as saying, “Strong gives Carter
much belated due for his personal leadership and spikes
some of the simplistic generalizations favored by the mass
media that portrayed Carter as indecisive and vacillating.”

Strong is also the author of “Decisions and Dilemmas:
Case Studies in Presidential Foreign Policy Making” and
“Statesmanship and Bureaucracy: Henry Kissinger and the
Making of American Foreign Policy.”

Strong joined the W&L faculty in 1989 and serves as
the politics department chair. Prior to coming to W&L he
served as a professor at Tulane University from 1982 to
1988. He served as an American Political Science Associa-
tion Congressional Fellow from 1988 to 1989 and worked in
the ofﬁces of Rep. Lee Hamilton and Sen. Richard Lugar.
At W&L, he teaches classes on international relations and
American politics.'He holdsdegrees from Kenyon College
(B'.A., ’1‘970),Nortlie‘r’ri Illiriois Un'iversity*(M.A., '1 977) and
the University of Virginia (Ph.D., 1980).

Chess tournament organizing

The Fighting Generals Chess Team, which has been
around for only two years, is sponsoring a chess touma-
ment. Since their beginning as a group of students and
faculty meeting in Dean Howison’s home, the group has
sponsored two single-elimination intramural tournaments.
In addition, they’ve organized an informal chess ladder
and are working on an intemet intercollegiate tournament.

The third tournament begins Feb. 23, and between 16
and 32 participants are anticipated. Competitors may sign
up at the Co-op, by sending e-mail to chess@wlu.edu, or
by calling x4728. There will be prizes for ﬁrst and second
place. Results of the ﬁrst round will be due the following
Tuesday.

For more information, go to the team's webpage at,
http://www.wlu.edu/~chess, which also has infonnation
about past and future tournaments.

Come and write for
Elite ﬂing-tum Iﬂlri

Join in the fun,
laughter, and behind-
the-scenes excitement
of W&L’s oldest and
most prestigious
newspaper

email us at phi@wlu.edu or call
X4060 and leave a message

"I

 

C

I

 

FEBRUARY7,2O00

OP

(J11: iRing-tum iﬂhi

INION

PAGE3

Lip Sync needs
another Austin

Lip Sync is a lot of things. Unfortunately, this year,
great was not one of them.

Not to say I expect insane amounts of nudity and drunk
pledges falling all over the place, but it ﬂat out did not
impress me.

I remember my freshman year when it was funny. No,
let me correct that, it was fall out of your chair hilarious.
Yes, there were an amazingly high number of disqualifica-
tions. Yes, a certain Phi Psi pledge had a small mishap.
Yes, the Sigma Nu act attempted to tear down lattices and
the SARAH sign. But, you have to look on the bright
side.

The act that
most stands out in
my mind is the Fiji
one. They did their
song and dance to
a medley of music from the Austin Powers soundtrack.
And don’t worry, they had their very own Austin. He
began in a bad suit. Then he started skipping/stumbling
around impersonating Austin Powers with the catlike
“meow”. Next, the blazer came off. This was followed by
the shirt and pants. That’s right, Fiji’s Austin was down
to his little red bikini briefs. And you mustn’t forget the
chest hair Austin possessed (which was all real). The Fiji
act was great, but of course they didn’t win because they
had the lethal combination of N.D.P. (naked, ‘drunk
pledges).

This year’s Lip Syncjust did not live up to the one two
years ago. Last year’s wasn’t as rambunctious either. And
no, it’s not because I was in it one year and not the oth-
ers. In fact, I wasn’t even in an act my freshman year. So,
I am coming to you as a bystander of the past three Lip
Syncs.

I have to admit, this year did have some very enter-
taining acts. The fraternities were surprisingly choreo-
graphed and clothed and the sororities were sadly un-
original. One of my favorite acts was the Talking Heads,
performed by Beta. The singer’s jacked up pants, the
keyboardist’s soulful tickling of the ivories, and the way
Beta dealt with the skipping CD made their act one of the
very best. Another act definitely worthy of a place was
Sigma Chi’s “Praise You.” The background dancers re-
minded me of the video with their subtle foot swaying,
frantic jumping, and stiff robot movements. Although
these were clearly two of the best acts, they didn’t so
much as place. I cannot even begin to explain this.

While Lip Sync is for a good cause and we always

 

Sir Isaac Lines
Stephanie Bianoo ’01

: raise a lot of money, if it continues to lackthe ﬂashyfun

factor the students at W&L would be better off drinking
at home watching the video from 1998. Then, they too
could revel in the unforgettable acts, such as Austin Pow-
ers, done in the true spirit of Lip Sync.

uote of the Week:

{K

I’ll be good, I’ll be good!

— Anonymous j unior guy

2’)

(J11: iiting-tum Elﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Li_'fe Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Eliana Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu. edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: 530

SIGMA CHI PRAISES You. Five pledges perform Fatboy Slim’s “Praise You” during the Lip Sync.

 

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

Are We thinking or just clapping?

I am not a Republican (pause for gasps of astonish-
ment). I just want to get that out in the open from the
beginning.

I walked into the Warner Center last Friday afternoon
as an Independent. I would like to be able to say that I was
Independent because I prefer to weigh each candidate on
their personal merits before making my
decisions, but who am I kidding — I
was apathetic, consciously not caring
at all about politics. I thought that maybe
the Mock Republican Convention
would pique my interest and that I
would actually ﬁgure out which party I wanted to join.

I learned many things on Friday.

I learned that the Chairman of the Republican National
Committee, upon being given the opportunity to address
a very large number of young people, to inﬂuence future
leaders of our nation, had no lasting impression to guide
us as we shape our lives. Instead, he chose to spend the
twenty-five minutes allotted to him to show us silly pic-
tures of Al Gore. I heard more about the evils of the Demo-
cratic Party than about any platform issue, about any of
the candidates for the nomination, or about any of the
virtues that the venerable J.C. Watts called us to portray in
his magniﬁcent speech.

I learned that Al Gore is a reliable windsock. Aﬁer hear-
ing Frank Keating repeat that phrase for twenty-five min-
utes, I was struck by the sincerity of one of his last state-

jersey Devil
&myEWtB

ments. Governor Keating called for a “restoration of good
will and honor in the White House.” He proposed that this
change could only be wrought by a Republican president,
by the dominance of the Republican Party.

Staff
Editorial

This week at Washington and Lee was quite a learning
experience for us here at The Phi, as they all are of course,
Mom and Dad. So we thought we’d send home a sort of
report card.

Actually we’ve just got space to kill, and anything
David Letterman can do, we can do better. We just can’t
get paid for it.

Top Ten Things We
Learned This Week:

10. “Photspreads” are not quite all they’re cracked up
to be. We weren’t sure whether our oh-so-clever-former-
competition was trying to be hip and call it a “Phatspread”,
or if we just need to haul ourselves into the 21st century.
But we do recommend spellcheck.

9. Taco Bell does horrible things to the wind through
the Phi office.

8. Fijis aren’t just meatheads, they’re “what are
meatheads with brains?”

7. J-Law may cover First Amendment issues, but the
tests are simply cruel and unusual.

6. Staff editorials are the best opportunity to take cheap
shots, and attribute them to an entire group of editors
who never saw it.

5. Dan Grattan does cost more than the price of a six-
pack. And for the price ofa keg, he might consider mar-
riage.

4. It’s harder than it sounds to consume four Saltines in
under a minute.

3. Beer Gardens need to be reinstated at Lip Sync,
which used to be fun.

2. Scott Guggenheimer is not funny. In fact, he’s like

Ah yes, the Republican party — the honorable party of McManemin on a bad_taste day

good-will and integrity that preaches to an impression-
able group of C-school majors and fu-
ture politicians that it is more impor-
tant we all understand that Al Gore is
not the inventor of the intemet, than to
set an example of good-will and honor.
Call me naive, call me an idealist, call me
Ishmael, but whatever you do, do not call me a Republican.

I sat down in my seat on Friday afternoon, excited by
the mass of people, the Styrofoam hats, the cameras, and,
by God, I cheered and clapped along with everyone else
whenever the speaker paused in his speech ever so slightly
— until I began to listen. When I started to listen to what
the speakers were saying instead of to the cheers of the
crowd around me I realized that I did not agree with a
single statement I was applauding.

Don’t think that I did not appreciate the Mock Conven-
tion. It awakened political interest in me and I know it is a
tremendous achievement of the W&L students involved.
When I was walking out of the Warner Center Friday
evening, a friend asked me if I was a Democrat. My answer
to her was “Now I am.” You can now officially add my name
to the list of people who need you to pray for their souls.

1. The Fiji pledge class needs to do a day-time streak
of the Colonnade.

The Ring-tum Phi

welcomes
Letters to the Editor

Please drop them oﬂ‘ outside the Phi
office or email them to us at phi@wlu.edu

Support for the performing arts lacking

Why is it that orchestra performances, and long, drawn
out appearances by “master artists” sell out Lenfest more
than the theatre departments productions? These shows
fairly consistently fill up the approximately 435 seat Keller
Theatre. Albeit, this is a large auditorium and the music
performances are mandatory for a large number of

season’s latest show, “Falstaff”, has been averaging a little
over 200 people for each performance.While this is not a
bad showing by any means, it is not nearly as strong as

the show deserves.
Falstaff has four performances. It performed Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday, and closes Monday with its fi-
nal show beginning at 8 p.m. The show has

people in music
classes, but the the- , ~
we department’  AnA<Io1’sPetspecI1ve

show after show, puts

 

Neal Willetts ’O5

everything you could want to see in a play:
greed, violence (sword fighting), whores,
wenches, and nudity. What more could you

on high—quality
shows.

I will give everyone some credit. This season’s first
two shows, “Arms & The Man” and “Biloxi Blues”, did
fairly well at the box offices. However, they were in the
Johnson Theatre, which is a much smaller arena. At most
the Johnson can seat about 120 people, and people often
must be turned away from shows.

The Keller, however, seats about 435 people, and this

want from an evening’s entertainment?

Greed, violence and nudity are what draws
the majority of us to the movie theatres, so why not to live
theatre? Live theatre is an art that has been around thou-
sands of years before the video camera, and its main at-
traction, of being live, is what makes it so special. The
comedy is more intense and the mistakes make it even
funnier. Best of all, it’s right in front of you, so close you
can reach out and touch it.

The show,s main draw, however, aside from the nudity,
violence and greed, is the talent of the actors. Senior
Brian Prisco, juniors Francis McWilliams, Howie
Sanbom, Blair Mitchell, Scott Cameron, sophomores
Rachel Welch and Micah Tolman, and freshman Emily
Pace light up the stage with their dramatic and comedic
abilities, each showcasing their talents in amazing per-
formances.

These actors have years of experience among them, and
plenty of shows under their belts. The talent, vivacity, and
love of theatre shine in their performances, making the ex-
perience even more enjoyable.

So, what more convincing could you possibly need?
Whores, greed, violence, nudity and some of the best tai-
ent in our school, all rolled into one.

Therefore, I expect to see a full house Monday night
and a bunch of people outside brawling over the last few
tickets, which, by the way, are free for students. Yet an-
other great incentive.

TALKbaCk...What did you think of Lip Sync?

 

“I’m too old for Lip Sync.”
—Ericka Balm ’0l

 

“I’d rather ski.”

— Tara Friedel ‘O2

 

“I liked seeing girls in sports bras.”
—- Ben Jolly ’02

 

 

“It sucked.”
—— Chris Pickens ’03

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

@112 ﬁling-tum ﬂirt

IF E

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

It takes a campus to make a difference

Students help autistic boy make strides

By Demaree Peck

SPECIAL TO THE PHI

“Touch bug!” Brent Rosengren, a
junior at W&L, spreads four pictures
on a table. My eight-year old son,
Caleb, touches a picture of beetle.
“Brouhahahahaha!” Brent explodes in
a loud monster voice, picking Caleb up
by his feet and swinging him over his
shoulders. Caleb laughs with delight.

An ice cold can of Coke sits entic-
ingly on the dining room table. “What
do you want? Say ‘Coke.’” Brent gives
Caleb the toy microphone.
“COHKUH!” Caleb proudly echoes.
“Awesome job, Caleb!” Brent makes
Caleb feel like a superstar.

“How many?” Amanda Lewis, a
sophomore, shows Caleb a picture of 10
balloons. Caleb scans the field of three
numbers on the table and picks up the
card with the number 10 written on it.
“Stupendous, buddy! Let’ s go for a ride!”
She gives Caleb a diuyin g tilt-a-whirl all
around the room in a chair on wheels.

“Which jelly-bean do you want?”
Senior Kelley Landry offers a choice of
two different colored jel1y—beans. Caleb
opens his PECS (Picture Exchange
Communication System) book, finds
three picture cards, arranges them in
order on a short ruler, and hands her a
sentence. Kelley reads it to him: “I
want orange jelly-bean! Excellent think-
ing!” She hands hirn his chosen treat.

“Build this.” Sophomore Jane Pontti
holds up a random photograph of a
structure made with 10
blocks. Caleb
uni sitatingly builds an
identical structure of
blocks. Jane leaps out
of her chair and dances
with Caleb, while sing-
ing, “For he’s a jolly
good fellow!”

“What do you want
‘go work for?” Stephanie
Miller, a junior, takes
Caleb to a board with
several pictures at-
tached to it. He selects
one and puts it on a
small clipboard, on
which are five pennies
serving as tokens to be
earned. “You want to
work for magazines?
Let’s go!” Stephanie
lays out several word
cards and hands Caleb a
series of pictures. “Put
with plant.” Caleb matches the pictures
to the corresponding words. “Bravo!”
Stephanie encourages him. “Only two
more pennies until you can have a maga-
zine!”

Jennifer Titus, a senior psychology
major, says nothing. She puts before
Caleb the parts of a marble maze and a
toy schedule made of sequenced pho-
tographs depicting how to build it.
Caleb independently puts the maze to-
gether, turning the pages of photo-
graphs as he goes, needing only a
slight prompt to reverse the direction
of a ramp. “I knew you could do it!”

Junior Brent Rosengren, Cale s favorite
teddy-bear, teaches him to say "up."

Jen gives Caleb a marble and he flaps
his hands in excitement as he watches
it roll down the
vortex of the
maze. She adds
to the fun by
bouncing Caleb
up and down in
acrobatic arcs on
a giant ball.

To these six
students -—- and
to the many
W&L students
who la ld the
groundwork be-
fore them——Ann-
Marie Harrill.
Leah Sawyer. and
others —— I want
to say thank youi
For cheering on
my son with so
much enthusiasm and dedication, you
deserve to be applauded. I can’t tickle
you or roll you on a mat, so l‘ll settle for
saying, as you have so many times con-
gratulated my son: “Hooray! Phenom-
enal! Thumbs up!"

Who, readers are asking, is Caleb?
Caleb is the son of professor of com-
puter science Ken Lambert and myself,
Demaree Peck. Caleb is a bright-eyed,
affectionate young boy who enjoys at-
tention and praise. He loves to be tick-
led and squeezed like a hot dog under
the blankets on his bed. He loves to
throw pebbles into Wood’s Creek. He

iaree Peck

 

loves to swing, swim. and sled down
hills. He enjoys playing puzzle games
on his computer. He likes music, espe-
cially Eric Clapton. He is afraid ofthe
dark and insists on sleeping with his
light on. Caleb has a selective eye for
special things that interest him. When
he was two, he walked for miles through
town, touching every single ﬂower
along the way. Once Caleb redecorated
the living room with atower of 10 rolls
of toilet paper stacked on top of the
stairway banister. At breakfast time,
he once asked for a bagel, not so he
could eat it, but so that he could run off

and string it. Caleb holds the world’s
record for eating an M&M in 10 bites.
Caleb is an exceptional child.

Those of us who love Caleb know

  

him as an individual; however, he car-
ries with him a label of “Autism” which
unfortunately, serves more to stigma-
tize than to help him. Since Caleb was
diagnosed in 1993, the incidence of
autism has increased from one in 10,000
to one in 500, and in some communi-
ties, one in 300. It has been declared an
epidemic. Although people suspect
that environmental toxins such as vac-
cines may be a contributing factor, cre-
ating blocked metabolic pathways and
sensory disturbances in the brain, no-
body knows the cause of this mysteri-
ous developmental disability. Caleb
was born normal. At about eight
months, he began to slip away from us
into his own impenetrable and ritualis-
tic world. Because of his condition,
Caleb is, as yet, unable to talk and has
profound difficulty understanding the
complex world of social relationships
and communication that the rest of us
take for granted. He perceives the world
differently. Without a verbal walking
stick with which to navigate his way,
he lacks the ability to organize his en-
vironment on his own. Caleb is like a
child locked away in the chambers of a
sunken boat. To help him, the therapists
must dive down to find where he is, and
bring him up to the surface. To me, Caleb
is a hero who is trying his best to survive
in a world made incomprehensible by his
own malfunctioning nervous system.
And the students who are trying to help
heal the broken circuit connecting him
to the world are equally heroic.

Although just 20 years ago, autistic
children were considered unteachable
and destined for institutionalization,
research now supports that early in-
tensive intervention is critical to help-
ing them reach their full potential within
the community. In our home—based pro-
gram, students teach Caleb according
to a promising, research-based method
known as ABA, or Applied Behavior
Analysis. ABA breaks tasks down into
simple components and teaches dis-
crimination through a series of hierar-
chical, discrete trials. The key to its
success is positive reinforcement.
Above all, learning has to be fun.

The therapy needs to be intensive

' .

_ _ Photo courtes
"Tici<Ll:D” TO BE RIGHT: Senior Kelley Landry rewards

Caleb Lambert with squeezes and cotton candy for correctly
identifying “ears” in a “Body Parts” drill.

  
  
 
 

8:00 p.m.

: 8:00 p.m.

 

. »._ Macon College. Warner Center.
ii Theatre ‘Series. “Falstaff.” Adapted and
' , j  directed by JD. Martinez. Keller The-

: «C atrlelenfest Center. For reservations call
« . ._ s ., . .thelLenfestCenterBox Office, 463-8000.
. ,    Play. “Moral,” a three-act com-
' ' 7   '7’ ‘ C. . edy’ by Bavarian playwright Ludwig

‘ C . ’rThoma. Johnson Theater, Lenfest.

7 p.m.

 

8:30 p.m.

 aay 
basketball (w). W&L vs. Randolph-

, g _ 6:00 p.m.
\ , Macon College. Warner Center.

   
 

= Lenfest Center. I

. ..;"lIednesasy. Feb. 9

_ V p , 7 :00 p.m.
,  Lecture. “Telling the Truth in Journal-

Friday, Feb..11

 Play. “Moral.”}ohnson Theater, ,

Monday, Feb. 14

ism,” Steve Rosenfeld, former  C:  1

rial page editor and columnist of the

Washington Post. Northen Atidito- ‘

iiurn.

Lecture. “The Transﬁguration of the is

Mount: New Readings of Biblical

Texts,” Prof. Phyllis Trible, Associ- ’

ate Dean and Professor of Biblical
Studies, Wake Forest University. I s

Northen Auditorium. Reception and I

book signing to folloyvﬁ .

German PIay._‘FMoral.’:§Joih::n‘ so

ater, Lenfest Center. 9

Thursday, Feb. 10  . . 4 . 

Basketball~(W). W&L vs. Hollins
University. Warner Center.

Lecture. “Nutrition supplements and
their application to sports perfor-
mance,” Dr. Mike Powers, assistant
professor, University of Florida.
Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis
Hall. '

(Undergraduate). washingtoirnoii-j

day begins after classes.) Classes re- ‘
sumeMonday, Feb.21i. \/3:».   .

Basketball (M). W&L vs.

Bridgewater College. WarnerICen_ter.,

in order to be effective. We are striving
to provide Caleb with 40 hours a week
of one-to-one therapy. This involves a
substantial time commitment from each
student, who typically
works with Caleb for six
hours each week, over
the course of two three-
hour shifts. Most stu-
dents are paid, al-
though some have
done internships
through the psychol-
ogy department for
course credit. I wish to
thank professors Nancy
Margand and David
Elmes for supervising
these internships.

I hope that the stu-
dents have found their
work with Caleb as re-
warding as I have. Their
efforts have paid off.
Caleb is making good
progress. In addition to the satisfaction
of seeing Caleb leam, student therapists
receive professional training during
monthly scheduled workshops provided
by C.A.R. D., the Center for Autism and
Related Disorders. Later this month, the
students and I will receive further train-
ing at a model educational site, the Vir-
ginia Institute of Autism, in
Charlottesville.

This is an exciting time to be involved
in Caleb’s program. We have just re-
ceived ﬁlnding from the local school
district, which means that we can af-
ford to make more hours and training
available. In addition, some students
will have the unique opportunity to ac-
company Caleb as a “shadow” into the
regular school setting, to facilitate his
integration with his typically develop-
ing peers. More than ever before, work-
ing with Caleb can be a valuable learn-
ing opportunity, affording students
hands-on experience with a real boy
outside of a textbook -— a boy who
desperately needs their help.

Ken and I are the keepers of the
hope. We are grateful to those special
W& L students who have joined us in
the solitary lighthouse to shine the
beacon of compassion, tolerance, and
love into Caleb’s life. In our case, it takes
a campus to raise a child.

Editor's note: If you would like to
make a diﬂerence in Caleb ’s life, and
wish to have more information about
his program, Demaree Peck can be

reached at dgeck@,5ockbridge. net, or
at 464-1420.

   

ee Peck

 

something about commitments.
Shuttling between football prac-
tices, rehearsals for Southern Com-
fort, GCF meetings, SAMs (Stu-
dent Athlete Mentors) and acting
as president of Phi Gamma Delta,
Lipsey spends more than enough
of his time being busy with other
organizations.

Lipsey, a business major, was
originally born in Louisiana.
Lipsey now lives outside of Or-
lando, Florida, with his parents and
two younger brothers, one of
whom will be coming to Washing-
ton and Lee University next year
as a freshman.

Q: What made you choose
Washington and Lee ?

“When it came down to it,
W&L was the best school that I
got into,” Lipsey said. “I was im-
pressed by the business school
and I knew that size-wise, I could
definitely play football here.”

And play football he has. One
of the four co-captains for next
year’s team, Lipsey was the
league’s leading tackler in the
ODAC last year.

Q: Why do you play football?

“Football is a great way to get
away from academics. Plus, it is a
sport I have always loved and it
has helped me grow as a person.
The football team is also like a fam-
ily; some of the first as well as
some of my best friends are from
the football team.”

Football has not always been
Lipsey’s sport however, he was a
champion weightlifter in high
school in addition to his gridiron
conquests.

Off the field Lipsey is also suc-
cessful. As president of Fiji he has
led his fraternity to first place fin-

Signature Student
yayson 51/bsey ’0]

Junior Jayson Lipsey knows~

ishes in grades, Lip Sync, and a
current lead in the intramural
standings. Lipsey is quick to
point out that the rise in house
success has been a group effort.

“The guys in the house have

    

Pho

 

urtesy of the Calyx

really worked hard to get where
we are,” Lipsey said. “It is im-
portant to us to work hard and
encourage a positive image on
campus.”

Q: How has W&L helped you
grow?

“I think that W&L has really
loosened me up, which I guess is
one way ofmaturing. I have also
been amazed at the increase in
campus ministry involvement.”

Q: Where do you see yourself
in 10 years?

“In 10 years I see myselfmar—
ried, with a couple ofkids,'hope-
fully the owner of my own busi-
ness, as well as the member ofa
ministry.”

Q: What do you do for fun,
apart from your extracurricular
activities?

“I enjoy a good cigar, listen-
ing to Harry Connick Jr. and
spending time with my beautiful
girlfriend.”

WRITE FOR THE PHI!

(we command you.)

Valentine’s Day J umbalaya

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Tired of reading sickly-sweet ar-
ticles and love stories every year at
Valentine’s Day? Or are you one of the
people who loves sappy articles,
watches “An Affair to Remember” and
“Sleepless in Seattle” religiously

a Christian one. Instead of Lupercus,
the Church designated Valentine the
patron saint of lovers. Hence, the holi-
day was Christianized. Though they
ended the lottery, men still used
Valentine’s Day, Feb. 14th, as a day to
attempt to woo the women they loved,
oﬁen sending their beloved messages

Several men came out of the car, a
couple uniformed and a couple non-
uniformed. These men were actually
members of Capone’s gang, pretend-
ing to be police. They burst into the
warehouse as if doing a bootlegging
raid and told the men to line up against
walls. As soon as the men complied,

the “police” broke out in ma-

every Valentine’s Day, and has
pink heart vinyl clings on your
dorm window (so am 1!)?
Regardless, this year’s
Valentine’s Day story has some-
thing for everyone. Read on.

Histog:

Valentine’s Day honors the
Catholic Saint Valentine, a mar-
tyr who was beheaded in 270
A.D. Supposedly Emperor
Claudius refused to let his sol-
diers get married in those days,
because he felt it split their at-
tention and loyalties. Valentine,

 

chine-gun fire. The “police”
emerged alive, having killed all
the men inside. Since Moran,
who was supposed to have
been the target of the assassi-
nation, was late, Capone’s men
missed him. Though it was un-
provable, since Capone was in
Florida at the time of the attack,
Moran knew that Capone had
done it. The attack, though bril-
liant and untraceable, signaled
the beginning of the end for
Capone. He had gone too far.
In this massacre, Capone drew
so much attention to himself that
he made the government deter-

a Catholic priest, disobeyed
Claudius’ edict by secretly marrying

young men and their lovers. Claudius

later found out. At first he tried to con-

vert Valentine to paganism, but when

he would not comply, he ordered him

beheaded. While in prison, Valentine

healed his jailer’s blind daughter, and

directly before his death sent her a mes-

sage signed “Your Valentine.”

One story says that in the 5th cen-
tury, the Romans had been celebrat-
ing a holiday in mid-February, honor-
ing the pagan god Lupercus, for al-
most 800 years. In this holiday, young
men had a “rite of passage” ceremony
in which they would draw the name of
a teenage girl in a lottery, and the girl
whose name they drew would become
their sexual pal't:il;;'  ‘LE1; 3 The
Catholic Church decided to look for a
way to convert the pagan holiday into

signed with Valentine’s name.
Violence:

Not all people celebrate Valentine’s
Day with teddy bears and chocolates.
On Valentine’s Day of 1929, the gang
of Al Capone bloodied the streets of
Chicago with the bodies of members
of Bugs Moran’s gang, in a notorious
massacre that ultimately led to
Capone’s downfall. The morning of
the 14th, seven of Moran’s men stood
waiting for a truck cheap bootlegged
whiskey (tipped off by a man later
found to be connected to Capone’s
gang) in a warehouse.

Moran was supposed to meet them
there, but he was late. While the men
were waiting for lvlor-all and tin. ti Ululk,
a police car came up to the warehouse.
Moran, just arriving, saw it and hid.

mined to nail him. In the mean-
time, Capone gave another meaning
to color red that is predominant on
Valentine’s Day.

Cute (and alternatelv
frightening)links:
Propose online:

http://www.invision.net/cupid/

valentines forever weddinghtml
Apply to get married on the Empire
State Building on Valentine’s Day:
http://www.esbnyc.com/html/
happy valentine s dav.html
Love Calculator: calculate probability
of a successful relationship with your
crush (or try other fun matches -— Bill
Clinton and I got an 84 percent!) :
http://www.lovecalcillatoncorg
LICL d. tutu Lv your ‘vu|\.ulI.ilA\« pust-
marked in Loveland:
http://www.loveland.org/valentine/

1’.

 

 

K

k

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

SP0

 

‘ UP THE MXDDLE: Senior Jessica Morton blasts through the defense during the Generals’ upset of
\ Bridegewater College on Thursday. Morton tallied thirteen points on the day.

i the Warner 

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Gener-
als’ men’s basketball team contin-
ued their home success and their

road woes this week, falling to-

V Shenandoah 73-67 before topping
Eastern Mennonite 56-51 Saturday
at the Warner Center.

The Generals held an early seven
point lead on the Hornets of
Shenandoah, but would suffer a 9-0
run for a 37-33 halftime deﬁcit. .

W&L would reclaim the advan-
tage, as the Hornets connected on
,g 12-14 free throws to secure the vic-

tory.

The Generals were led by fresh-
man Scott Hetterman, who tallied
career-highs in points and rebounds

V with 16 and seven, respectively.
Junior Will Ballard added 13 for

the Generals, and classmate Chad

Braley tallied 11, including three

from behind the arc.

Shenandoah shot 92 percent from
the line, hitting 23 oftheir 25 foul
shots. The loss leaves the Generals
still searching for their ﬁrst win away
it from Lexington.

“Wejust come out more pumped
up at home than we do on the road,”
said Ballard.

W&L avenged a previous over-
time loss on the road with
Saturday’s victory versus. Eastern
Mennonite.

With_ the win, the Generals moved
k to 7-2 at home.

The Generals again held an early
advantage before Eastern Menno-
nite used a 12-0 run to take a 25-17
lead with 19 minutes to play.

1‘ The Royals would build their lead
up to 1 1 before the Generals started
their comeback.

W&L surged on a 23-6 run to give

lg them a 43-37 lead that they would
not relinquish.

EMU would cut the lead to one,
but the Generals connected on eight
of 10 free throws down the stretch

ll to seal the victory.

Generals lacrosse players receive honors

Street & Smith's College Lacrosse
USA Pre-season All-America teams
have been announced and Washing-
ton and Lee had seven players hon-

’‘ ored. Only defending national cham-
pion Salisbury State had more All-
America selections (8).

A trio ofjuniors, attackman Matt V

y‘, Dugan, midﬁelder Pope Hackney, and
defenseman Pete lwancio were all
named to the First Team All-America
list. All three earned Pre-season First
Team All-America honors by Faceoff

V 2000 Men’s Lacrosse Yearbook.

Dugan was the ODAC Player of
the Year and a Second Team All-
American last season after tallying
57 goals and 27 assists for 84 points.
Hackney was a First Team All-ODAC
and Third Team All-America selec-

 

Braley led the Generals with 17
points, nailing four of seven from
three point land. Senior Scott Hudson
tallied nine points and three blocks,
and senior Brian Ricketts added eight
boards for the Generals.

Despite shooting 32 percent from
the floor and being out—rebounded
46-32, the Generals used stellar de-
fense and good free throw shooting
(1 8-22) to earn the win.

tion in 1999 after scoring 27 goals and
dishing 10 assists, while lwancio
earned the same honors after help-
ing the Generals post the nation's top
scoring defense (5.20 gpg).

Senior attackman Colin
Dougherty earned Second Team
Preseason All-America honors by
CLUSA after garnering the same
honor by Faceoff 2000. Dougherty
was named Second Team All-ODAC
last season after totaling 26 goals
and 26 assists for 52 points. He
earned Honorable Mention All-
America honors following the 1998
season, but was riddled with inju-
ries in 1999.

Senior defenseman Charlie Antrim,
senior attackman Chris Brown, and
junior goalie Wes Hays were all

Men’s basketba1l’s success in
enter continues

    

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor
How MUCH ARE POINTS THESE DAYs?: Senior Brian Ricketts pre-
pares to shoot a free throw during Saturday’s win over EMU.

“The win was real big,” contin-
ued Ballard. “We need to string a
few together before the conference
tournament starts.”

“We’d like to get on a roll, and
we have to use our home games to
do it.”

W&L returns to action Monday
night at the Warner Center when
they host Randolph-Macon. Tip—off
is set for 7 p.m.

named Honorable Mention Pre-sea-
son All-America.

Like Dougherty, Antrim also
battled through an injury—plagued
1999 season to earn First Team All-
ODAC and Honorable Mention All-
America honors. He was named to
Faceoffs Second Team Pre-season
All-America squad.

Hays finished the 1999 season
third in Division III in goals-against
average (5.91) and posted a .600 save
percentage.

Washington and Lee returns 24
letterwinners, nine starters, and its top
nine scorers to the field this season af-
ter going 13-2 last year. The Generals
won the ODAC with a perfect 6-0 record
and advanced to the quarterﬁnals of
the NCAA Toumament.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor’

@112 Tiling-tum iﬂlti

RTS

PAGE 5

Women’s basketball hands
ODAC front-runner upset

By Steele Cooper

SPOR TS EDITOR

Though the Washington and Lee women’s basketball
teams season may be considered by some a disappoint-
ment, it is not without its bright spots.

The Generals proved that they are not to be discounted in
the ODAC when they beat the top-ranked team in the confer-
ence, Bridgewater College on Thursday, 60-57. The week
was not without its cursory letdown, however, as the Gener-
als fell to Emory and Henry, 53-42, on Saturday.

On Saturday at E&H, turnovers and poor shooting kept
the Generals from going two for two on the week. W&L was
only able to connect on 29 percent of their shots from the
floor and 14 of the Wasps’ points came from the Generals’ 18
turnovers.

“We couldn’t shoot on Saturday. You can't win basket-
ball games when you only score 42 points,” said senior Jes-
sica Morton.

Morton also said that the Generals suffered a lack of men-
tal preparation going into the game.

“It was atough road trip for us. Once we got there, we had
to wait through [an Emory and Henry] men’s game and so we
didn’t get the warrn-up and preparation we’re used to,” she
said.

Sophomore forward Jessica Mentz led the Generals with
15 points and 13 rebounds. Morton posted seven points and
two assists.

The Generals are now 1 1-8 overall and 8-7 in the ODAC.

. The week started off on an season-high note for W&L
when they handed a loss to the then 10-2 top-ranked
Bridgewater. W&L headed into the locker room at halftime
with a 20-23 lead but were not able to cruise all the way

through the second half.

W&L trailed by four with little more than seven minutes
remaining in the contest. The teams traded small leads for
most of the second half until sophomore Sarah Schmidt nailed
a running lay-up with only 1 :51 left to give the Generals the
last lead they would need to close out the win.

Senior guard Ansley Miller added another 17 points to
the W&L scoring record on Thursday on seven-of-1 I shoot-
ing. Miller connected on 2-of-3 from three-point range.

Sophomore center Megan Babst scored 14 points and
three blocks. Morton posted a 13 point effort.

A combination of a winning defensive gamble, improved
ball management, and dead-on shooting from the ﬂoor made
the upset happen. W&L shifted to a trapping defense to
concentrate on BC’s two strongest players, a guard and a
post player.

“The trapping defense worked well because we were able
to pack in against their post player and extend to cover the
guard,” said Morton.

That defense held the Eagles to a mere 28.8 percent shoot-
mg.

“We kept our turnovers down and didn’t freak out in
tough situations,” she said. “We were able to keep our com-
posure.”

The Generals shot almost 49 percent from the ﬁeld and
52.2 percent during the second half. The Eagles were out-
rebounded 35-3 1 by the Generals.

The upset has the Generals thinking ahead to the ODAC
tournament.

“There is no dominant team in the conference so it’s still
wide open,” said Morton.

The next step comes on Tuesday when W&L hosts
Randolph-Macon on Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.

Junior_Josh Chamberlain‘ andfreshinafn Ericson

‘ Davis each wrestled their way to,third-plac‘e‘finishes

at the Newport _New_s.Ap'prentice‘ Invitational on Sat-
urday. ' if 5 4 ii A’  ‘

Chamberlain and Davis each ,.posted?'p_ins, in their

Both wrestlers thenlwere able to regroup ‘ b ttlingltlreir
ways . rough ‘the consolation jbrackets o  third-

iplaééflhishééii . r . A .    .
  0ﬂ1¢r.G¢ne!a1s. claiming yictqncsmcqhtested marches

: ‘wine seniorchad,‘c;asto,andjuni6i‘cnégVe1entine. V
 ﬁnished seventh  pthevteamscoringi with ‘a
total of 24 ‘points: The Generals now have an overall
record ,of 4-3 and 62-2 . in Centennia1- Conference
n'1éfch‘‘'‘‘"'’s_ ’     . . l . '  l
J 'S¢ﬁi<.'>f:Ch53    aIi<11.1a°¢"S Only
pii1iIi_1¢*?dﬁ18liié   ‘£24921 Viétory

°VefS9“l11¢!i1eYii‘3$i1‘l?C°“ég€'bn W°¢ln¢S?1?Y€:V¢ning-

S Washington} aiid‘1.fee's :.§iioijtien's§.sil:viiiitning team
swept a double idlial swimmeet on?-Thursday’evening
in Radford, Va, triui1‘1phing.'o_v_er_tl1e’host Highlanders
by a score of:'_78-17,-while also defeating I-lollins Uni-

versity by  count of 82-.13.  ,  w

era _ed_:victories'iiril0 of _the 11
events comprising the 'eomp:etition,Thep:Clenera1s (10-

The‘Washington and Lee indooihaek teams trav-
eled across townoyer the weekend to compete in the
VMI Winter Indoor Relays. . - j - ‘ ’_ y - 3.3:. .,

The Generals were led by junior Marc Watson and
freshman Burke Duncan, each ofwhom geiiiered fourth-
place ﬁnishes irljhe competition. No ‘team scoring was
kept in the meet? ’ f _ i J ;

Watsonclaimed fourth place in the ﬁnals of the men's
55-meter dash in a time of 6?.5,7‘seconds.

 

‘opening matchesbefore losing iiijtlie ‘_sec,ond,r”o_und., _

 

Casto, wrestling in the 125-pound classiﬁcation, re- ‘
corded afall atthe 4:56  ofhis  »
Marranto. The win pushed lCast,o's record to’15-:4,'on ,
the season and 7-0 «in dual meets. Tsophomdre fl'3_3.-

pounder Ben‘Segal followed up“‘Casto's'win Afw:ith"a’:7-4 .
victory over Corey Hickinan,  the_Generals aquick
9-Olead. , . .5 ~_:   .. . _. i : _  

» Freshman John Polena then1won_,liis;141'-‘ iind  W
by forfeit, increasing the ;_ eadltoiil 0_.Aﬁ_er;SV{C '

(2?4)Fa1li°df0 19l111_V‘lith,il1'l,5,f9s;l‘l‘:‘.l9T. -.Gfé8’y‘ll°l1ll¥‘.9 » :.
recordedla bigi‘wi_n_at,    l A  A
by a score of 9-5, pushing the‘W6fi‘l; leadhto-1 ” Junior
John Sensing then clinched die~victory;fo}  Gener-

.als with a forfeit win at.285 pounds,‘ .: 1  .» 

 

    

     

The Generals willretum topactioin on ‘when
they will travel to Baltimore, Md., for the , -
, Quadrangular. The quad-match set tobegingat 12:00

p_m_ . g, * g_ .   —. .

 

' 5, 4-0 ODAC) took theﬁrst two. places’ in five of the
heats. Freshman Kathleen Gibson recorded ‘tlir'ee"1ife- V‘
time bestsinthe victories._   L f‘ 1 C ' :

W&L's victoryover Hollins clinched_the  regu- ‘
lar-season ODAC champion,ship.;__ ' ‘ 7. V   L ‘-

W&L willretum to action" at_”th'e' ODAC/Atlantic
States Championships on Feb, '18-20. 0

Duncan, W&L's top ﬁnisher on the women's side,
crossedtl1eliI1eirrthe3,000-rneternmwithatirneof 1 1:08.70.

The Generals had two other top-10 ﬁnishers in the
meet. Freshman Kelly Schlicter ﬁnished in seventh place
in the women's 800-meternm (2:3 170), while junior Chris
Wahl took home ninth place in the men's shot put (39'
06.5"),

W&L's teams will retum to action at Lynchburg Col-
lege on Feb. 8. ‘

Head Coah Jim Stagnita is opti-
mistic about the upcoming season.

“This is the first team I've had that
has returned so many All-Americans

following an NCAA Tournament E N G L A N D ,9 I T A L Y
berth,” said Stagnitta.

“These guys have been to two
NCAA Tournaments inarow. Look- H O N G K O N G * S PA IN
ing at things from a factual stand-
point, this is the strongest group of  B  *  N 

returnees I've ever had. We have two
guys that will contend for the (W& L)
career scoring record and a solid
group of defensemen and goalies.
I've never had such a stable group of
goalies returning.”

The Generals begin their season
when they host Elmira on Wednes-
day, Feb. 23.

Planning to stutlv Abroad?
gyracuse Ilasjmur ticket!

SYRACUSE; -
STUDYABROAD 2, A

119 Euclid Ave/Box D Syracuse, NY 13244

   

?”l!i1drl‘

— Courtesy Sports Information

800 235 3472 suabx-oad@syt.edu
http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa

 

 

PAGE 6

http://members.
xoom.oom_XOOM
lprimalllmahirl
index.html

LAST WORD

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

Casualties continue to mount in the war on drugs

By Kevin McManemin

ROCK ON LONDON, ROCK ON CHICAGO

The numbers are in for I 999 from
the Rockbridge Regional Drug Task
Force. The task force 's eﬂorts last year
resulted in a total of I 2 7 drug charges
being filed including 76 felonies. The
task force seized over 98-thousand
dollars worth of narcotics last year
including nearly 7000 grams 0 mari-

juana and nearly 40 grams of powder
and crack cocaine. (WREL)

Wow. 127 drug arrests is ahell ofa
lot for such a small town. And hey, in
a city of 7000 people, the 7000 grams
of pot works out nicely! That’s one
hell of a party you’ve spoiled, thank
you very much Rockbridge Regional
Drug Task Force.

Is itjust me, or is the war on drugs
working out about as well for this
country as Vietnam? Why are we
spending billions of tax dollars on a
task as impossible as the Forbes cam-
paign? Why are we ﬁlling our prisons
with harmless dopers when the real de-
generates of our society —— murder-
ers, rapists, democrats — are getting
off with slaps on the wrist? And why,

It takes
to raise

by Kevin McManemin

ROCK N ‘ROLL MCDONALDS

Saying that Sesame Street “no
longer reflected the true diversity of
America,” yesterday the third district
Federal Court ordered sweeping new
cast changes to the long-running
show. “We cannot allow our children
to be corrupted by a show which does
not provide adequate role models for
all youth,” the Honorable Sarah
Fleishman said.

Most of the current cast of humans
and monsters will be laid off — and
many of them had strong words about
the ruling. Big Bird called the court’s
decision a “crock of Snuffelupagus, if
you catch my driﬁ.” Grover said the
trial was “the saddest thing to happen
on Sesame Street since Mr. Hooper
died.” But the muppet most affected
is doubtlessly Oscar the Grouch, who
was executed by ﬁring squad this
morning for the capital crime of insen-
sitivity. “We have to send a message
to our youth that a negative attitude
will get you nowhere,” the Honorable
William H. Goldstein said.

We at the Last Word have obtained
a spec-script of the new court-ordered
Sesame Street. It is presented here for
your ediﬁcation and enjoyment:

seam strut
Ellsuo 951
Ilrlm: AM. 2000

Sunny day keeping the
clouds away

On my way to where the air
is sweet

Can you tell me how to get,

how to get to Sesame
Street?
ELMO: Elmo is so happy!

So many.new friends on
Sesame Street! Hello, new
muppet Brother Khalid-
Muhammed!

BKM: Waddup, Brother Elmo.

ELMO: Elmo want to sing
the ABC song!

BKM: Alright. A is for
Anarchy. B is for
Brotherhood. C is for
Oppression. There's your
f***ing ABC's.

ELMO: Elmo not like that
song!

BKM: What do you want to
learn that disgusting
Anglo—Saxoid language for,

« anyway? When Allah's Holy

Revolution wipes the white
Satan and his filthy
languages off the earth,

in a culture that defends a woman’s
choice to abort her fetus as “her right
to control her body,” are supposedly
free citizens not allowed to put a little
heroin in the ol’

using drugs, but we now know that
studies have proven DARE about as
effective a drug deterrent as a Grate-
ful Dead concert. And this should

come as a sur-

b100dStf8am prise to no one.
whenever they our schools
jolly well wantto? can’t even teach

The answer, kids the multipli-
of course, is that cation tables _

drugs are bad for
people, and the
g o v e r n m e n t
should protect
people from bad
things. By that

 

did we honestly
expect them to.
teach the youth
of America how
to make respon-
sible moral deci-

logic, though, the sions?
government So ifthe law
should pass a law or education
outlawing the Keith Richards’s face says, won’t deter kids
USA Network. “c’mon kids, I dare you to do from using drugs,
As long as drugs! I dare you!” what will? Easy:
there is a supply 60’s rock stars.
of drugs and a Back in the

demand for them, all the laws in the
world aren’t going to keep capitalism
from running its course. So laws and
Regional Drug Task Forces aren’t the
answer to drug abuse —- education is.

Just kidding. It sounds nice to say
that educating kids will stop them from

a village
a muppet

there will be rejoicing in
the streets, Brother Elmo!

ELMO: Elmo like rejoicing!
Well, Elmo has to go to
Sesame Street's newest
shop now ~ Lezbo’s eco-
feminist bookstore!

(ELMO walks into the
store. BERT is at
the counter)

BERT: Excuse me, do you
have any books about paper

clips?

LEZBO: Take your phallus
elsewhere!

BERT: What?

LEZBO: You heard me, pig!
BERT: And to think Ernie
and I marched in the
parade for people like you!

(BERT storms out)

ELMO: Hi, Lezbo! Nice new
eyebrow and nose rings!

LEZBO:
Thanks!

Hello, Elmo.

ELMO: Elmo love reading!

LEZBO: Good! Here's a book

for you: A History of Rape:
Dissecting the White

Misogynist Culture .

ELMO: Do you have any books
on numbers?

LEZBO: Numbers? How about
this number: 140 million.
That's the number of
innocent trees and plants
murdered every day by the
plutocratic phalluses in
charge.

ELMO: How about numbers
like five or seven?

LEZBO: You and your
bourgeois numbers!

(JORGE the
differently—abled-
transgendered-
hermaphroditic—
Tejano-Latino-
muppet—American
wheels his
wheelchair into
LEZBO's bookstore)

JORGE: Hi Lezbo! Hi Elmo!

ELMO: I-li, Jorge the

good ol’ days, Ginger Baker used to
shoot heroin behind his eyeballs to
keep him going during his 20-minute
long drum solos with rock’s ﬁrst su-

 

differently—abled-
t r axis g erid e1:e d —
hermaphroditic-Tejano—
Latino-muppet-American!
How's it going?

JORGE: OK!
LEZBO: Just OK?

the
can

JORGE: Sometimes OK is
very best thing you
be! (cue music)

Well sometimes you
happy

And sometimes you are
But if you are OK
Then you can’t be doing
baaaaaaad...

are

sad

I've got parts from both
the sexes

I'm a bilingual from Texas
I drive a wheelchair not
a Lexus

That's OK!

ELMO: You're OK!

JORGE: I have sex with
guys and gals

Doesn' t mean I'm bacchanal
Means I've got twice as
many pals

That's OK

LEZBO: You're OK!

JORGE: Ohhhhh. . .

My wheelchair didn't keep
me from following my dream
Of playing on my school's
varsity basketball team.
Though I can't dribble or
shoot the ball I know that
that's OK.

I'll bet the coach is glad
that the court ordered me
to play.

That's OK!

ELMO: You're OK!
LEZBO: We're OK!

JORGE: I'm OK!

ALL: We're Okaaaaaaaay!

ELMO: That's a great song!
Goodbye everyone! See you
next week!

LEZBO: ELMO! That was
insensitive to our blind
viewers!

ELMO: Elmo Sorry! See or
hear you next week! Please
don’t fire Elmo!

Today 's show was brought to you by
the letters h and o and by the political
doctrine "Marxism. "

pergroup, Cream. Today, Ginger Baker
looks like he’s been run over by a
dumptruck, which backed over his face
four times and dumped a whole load
ofugly on him.

Keith Richards is actually 57 years
old, which comes as a surprise to any-
one who has seen a recent pic of the
bloke and knows that he looks like he
could be Bob Dole’s grandfather. What
a drag it is getting old, eh, Keith? And
Ringo Starr. . . well. . . he’s stilljust
Ringo Starr. That’s divine punishment
enough.

Aging sixties rock stars are the real
tragic faces of drug abuse. And the
ones l’ve mentioned are the ones who
survived! We don’t even need to bring

up Jim, J imi, Janis, and the acid casu-
alties like Syd Barrett and Peter Green,
once-brilliant men who fried their
brains into Ozzy-Osboume-like unin-
telligibility.

So please, we don’t need to con-
centrate our efforts on campy PSA’s
to tell kids “how to say no.” Any kid
whose life is worth protecting knows
how to say no —— we need to give him
a reason to. If you want to scare kids
sober, have a PSA in which Bob Dylan,
Lou Reed and Mick Jagger face the
camera, take off their sunglasses and
loudly proclaim, “Kids, this is the face
of drug abuse.” Street dealers won’t
be able to give the stuff away after
that.

 

Bob Dylan shows off his medal
for years of dedicated service
to pot growers everywhere.

W&L alums get funky on
idletime’s debut album

By Josh Harvey

PHI Music CRl'lI(.‘

There must be something about
idletime. I’m talking about three
‘ W&L alums and some New Orleans
musicians who are giggin’ four nights
a week and about to go full time.
Leggett and Wilkinson have deﬁ-
nitely come a long way since their
stint with Aquanautilus their senior
year in 1997, both in their playing and
their song writing.

However, the band’s sound is
grounded in a long tradition of self-
indulgent jam bands like New Or-
leans’ Greyboy Allstars and Michael
Ray and The Kosmic Krewe, with
hints of local favorites Agents of
Good Roots, and even bigger acts
like Widespread Panic, Phish and
Medeski, Martin and Wood. Unfor-
tunately, their ﬁrst album, “time stops
. . .” is consequently sterile, if tech-
nically sound. ‘

Jam bands are almost as serious a

 

problem to music as the Spice Girls.
The genre is so appealing to newer
musicians due to the success of the
aforementioned bands, but let’s ad-
mit it (and I can say with a fair
amount of certainty): Agents
sucked in the inceptionary years. It
takes serious practice, skill, band
communication and stage presence,
and only seasoned veterans can pull
it off (and how many of the hun-
dreds of Phish jams a year are even
uninspired and flat?) Young bands
who are emulating this tradition are
prone to rambling solos, looseness
of arrangement and lack of cohesion
within songs. It's one thing to hear
Medeski or Joshua Redman play a
ﬁve minute solo, but it takes serious
taste to present‘ that successfully.
Bands like idletime (and I think
“Widespread” as well) will have to
hone these elements through gigs
and time together, a long, slow path.
It’ s a route that can pay off, but, until
then, tracks that last longer than ﬁve

minutes should be strongly
avoided. Songs like “gus” would
be a lot more effective as a four-
minute, one-solo showcase than a
small epic rambling around nine min-
utes. People’s attentions wane fast
(mine included), especially in our
Britney-Ricky era. Additionally, the
CD’s production is loose: the few
vocals are sometimes underrnixed,
and the drums sound way too thin
and tinny. All together, the album
suffers from too much high-end,
treble frequency, no depth/warrnth
of sound, and no dynamic contrast.

The boys are building chops on
the road, and I am especially im-
pressed by Aaron’s funky bass
work. idletime show promise, but it
will take a year or so of together-
ness to tighten arrangements. There
must be something about idletime,
but I’m waiting to see for myself.
Perhaps I will be proven seriously
wrong when the shows starts
Wednesday night.

 

motivated self-starter!

F

I writing lyrics that include at least eight profani-
ties a line. Previous songwriting or musical expe-
rience absolutely unnecessary!

Latin Kings Crime Syndicate
—— Street Pimp. '

Resumes are now being accepted for the posi-
tion of street corner pimp. Desired Qualiﬁcations:
at least 4th grade education, and 2-3 years experi-
I ence as mid-level drug pusher. Duties include
maintaining and updating a database of hoes and
johns, networking with our clients and occasional
beatings. Must be a people-person, and a highly-

JOB] INTERNSHIP PAIR!

Wednesday, Feb. 30, 2-5 p. m. in the

Science Center

. check out these great career
opportunities!

e.com — e-slacker.

We at e.com are committed to providing Internet solutions to today’s e-businesses. I
What does that mean? ABSOLUTELY NOTHING! We just sit around the office
I watching CNBC all day and watching our stock prices soar through the roof! Come J
join us — salaries start at four million a year.

Neverland Ranch — Intern. ,

Greetings from Michael Jackson’s Neverland Ranch! If you're a recent college
grad, or a boy 8-13, the Neverland Ranch has an exciting career opportunity for
you! Duties include llama-herding, maintenance of oxygen tanks, minor reconstruc-
tive surgery, light typing, and oral sex. A Thriller of a time guaranteed for all!

Epitaph Records — Songwriter.

Would you like to work as a songwriter for the # 1 punk record label in the world?
Do you know at least three power chords on the guitar? If the answer to both of
these questions is yes, then we’d like to hire you! Duties include writing music easy
enough to be played by a baby chimpanzee and

 

  J 
cjournalism majors?’  

 

  

  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Y.

3’.

¥

X’

C

 

 

  

,4

X

4 $78. 755’

    

’ ’ iJ¥?l\1i.7[g;t,:g;;Iy
R9 9 2 a .>..w'~ ¢..~’.t'-I’f’v’if5l£!£Til¥=z
V. /02. ezaarr

I90. 2,!

VOLUME 102, No.21

Two freshmen
face SJ C trial

Students allegedly pull ﬁre alarms prior
to Feb break; may be suspended or ﬁned

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Two freshmen will face a Student Ju-
diciary Council tiial this week, following
an incident of two fire alarms going off
in Grahain-Lees and Baker dormitories
the Friday before February break.

On the aftemoon of Feb. 11, dorm
counselors Jim McKnight and Michael
Crittenden were watching a movie on
the second ﬂoor of the dorm when the
fire alarm went off. They spotted three
men racing around the dorm, gave chase,
and apprehended them. McKnight and
Crittenden then referred the names to
security. I

Freshmen Andrew Juge and Brendan
Malone were initially suspended for the
remainder of the academic year on
Thursday aﬁemoon, with the option of
reapplying for admission next year. Fri-
day, however, the decision was changed
and they were given an SJC trial.

The third freshman, J .P. Hyland, was
with Juge and Malone but apparently
did not pull an alarm himself, and will
not face trial.

Following their suspension, Juge
and Malone circulated a petition on
Thursday evening in protest of the de-

cision, collecting an estimated 400-500
signatures. Further controversy arose
over the question of student self-gov-
emance. According to Dean of Fresh-
men Mark Dalhouse, there are several
disciplinary options outlined in the stu-
dent handbook, ranging from referral to
the SJC to suspension.

“My initial response was to go ahead
with the suspension, but that started a
debate about student self-govemance,”
Dalhouse said. “The issue is fire safety,
so I felt that at that point it was wisest to
hand it overto the SJC to decide on pun-

ishment.”
Dalhouse explained that he opted for

the harsher punishment because this
incident is not isolated.

“We’ve had an ongoing problem with
pulled alarms this year,” Dalhouse said.
“And now kids don’t know when to
leave the dorms, because there have
been so many cases of pulled alarms. It
was to a crisis point.”

According to Dalhouse, most perpe-
trators have gotten away with pulling
alarms in the past. “This is the first time,
to my knowledge, that actual names
have reached my desk,” he said.

The trial date is still uncertain, but is
expected to take place early this week.

 Ulicﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2000

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
' SPRINGTERM ARRIVES? (left to right) Freshmen Lindsey Duran, Stacey Kimmel, Beth Gray, Avery Gholston and Jane Ledlie enjoy
the unseasonably warm weather experienced last week.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

HEAui3ANGER’s BALL. Freshman Nick Ramsey, perspective student K.C. Wilson, freshmen
Jennifer Fallon, Liz Townsend, Matt Bracewell, sophomore Britt Shaffer and her date Jon
Schieffelbein dress the part at the Chi-Omega/Theta function Saturday night at Zollman’s.

Rep. Lewis to address W&L

Decorated Civil Rights leader to speak on his experiences

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Civil rights legend and Atlanta-area Congressman John
Lewis will speak in Lee Chapel tonight. Lewis’ speech,
sponsored by Contact, the Minority Students Associa-
tion, PRIDE, and the Ofﬂce of Student Affairs, will detail
his involvement in the Civil Rights Movement. The speech
begins at 8 p.m. and will be followed by a reception in the
Alumni House. -

“I’m really excited to see him because I ’ve heard he’s a
dynamic speaker and I ’m intrigued by his civil rights activ-
ism,” said MSA member Renita Perkins.

MSA sent Lewisan official invitation to speak last year.
He was slated to speak for Martin Luther King day, but
had to come today instead. As an elected ofﬁcial, Lewis
can’t accept a fee, but his travel expenses were paid for by
his campus sponsors.

Ryan Gielen, publicity chair for Contact, is especially
happy to have Lewis.

“This is the second year that we (Contact) have been
trying to put something together with PRIDE and MSA,”
Gielen said, “and finally we found a great speaker with an
incredible story to tell, so we booked him.”

John Lewis was born the son of sharecroppers outside
Troy, Ala. He grew up on his family’s farm and attended

I segregated public schools.

hi Dec. 1998, Pres. Bill Clinton presented the first Eleanor
Roosevelt Award for Human Rights to John Lewis. Lewis

also won the 1999 Franklin D. Roosevelt Freedom Medal.

In 1961, Lewis volunteered to participate in the Free-
dom Rides, which were organized to challenge segrega-
tion at interstate bus terminals across the South.

During the height of the Civil Rights Movement, from
1963 to 1966, Lewis was the Chairman of the Student Non-
violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), which he helped
fomi. SNCC was largely responsible for the sit-ins and other
activities of students in the struggle for civil rights.

Despite his youth, John Lewis became a recognized
leader in the Civil Rights Movement. By 1963, he was rec-
ognized as one of the “Big Six” leaders of the Civil Rights
Movement. Lewis, at the age of 23, was one of the plan-
ners and a keynote speaker at the historic “March on Wash-
ington” in Aug., 1963.

In 1965, Lewis and Hosea Williams led 525 marchers
across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Sehna, Ala. State troop-
ers attacked the marchers in a confrontation that became
known as “Bloody Sunday.” That fateful march and a sub-
sequent march between Sehna and Montgomery, Ala. led
to the Voting Rights Act of 1965. '

Despite more than 40 arrests, physical attacks and seri-
ous injuries, John Lewis remained a devoted advocate of
the philosophy of nonviolence.

Lewis coauthored “Walking with the Wind: A Memoir
of the Movement” with writer Michael D’Orso. The book
is a firsthand account of this nation’s civil rights move-
ment. In May 1999, John Lewis received the prestigious
Robert F. Kennedy Book Award.

 

80’s group Run DMC to

headline 2000 FD concert

Rap pioneers bring a little “old school”, mixed reactions, to Vegas

Michael Crittenden
ASSOCIA TE EDITOR

Washington and Lee students have to dig up some
Adidas warm-ups and gold chains for this year’s Fancy Dress
kickoff concert featuring old-school rap messiahs Run DMC
and the Sugarhill Gang.

The concert, held annually the Thursday night before
Washington and Lee’s Fancy Dress ball, will feature the two
pioneering rap groups whose heyday may have been in the
80s, but who SAB President Dave Levinson hopes will draw
a large crowd to the Pavilion on Thursday night.

“These guys are the pioneers of the rap movement, and
it should be a pretty fun concert,” Levinson said. “People
should come dressed in their best 805 clothes and be ready
for a great time.”

Levinson said that another reason for students to make
sure they attend the show is that the word on the street is
that this could be the last tour for both groups. “Students
have to catch them now or forever hold their peace,” he said.

Born in Hollis, Queens, Run DMC features childhood
friends Run, DMC and Jam Master Jay. Most famous for
their cover of Aerosmith’s “Walk This Way,” the first cross-
over rock and rap duet was one of MTV’s most played vid-
eos of all time. Run DMC was also famous for songs such as
“Christmas in Hollis”, “You be lllin’”, and “My Adidas”.

Though they have been overtaken by the rap genre they
themselves spawned, Run DMC remains a recognized act
that students are expecting to kick freestyle at the Pavilion.

“I think it should be pretty cool,” freshman Glenn Delaney
said. “They were a little before my time, so it should be cool
to hear some of the masters of the Old-school.”

Like DMC, Sugarhill Gang are one of the original rap
groups, and are credited with the first mainstream rap hit,
the 80s urban anthem “Rapper’s Delight” which in addition
to billions of hours of air play across America, has also been
covered and sampled from by a number of artists. Featuring
the lyrical stylings of Wonder Mike, Big Bank Hank, and
Master Gee, Sugarhill Gang promises to put on a great show.

Student reaction has been fairly positive so far, though
some students have made comments about the group’s age.
One student even commented that he was afraid the mem-
bers of Sugarhill might have a heart attack on stage, but that
aside, he was looking forward to throwing on his Adidas
and bumping the night away.

According to Levinson, the SAB went through a lot of
work to land the two _famous groups. In the end, the deci-
sion was made based on DMC/Sugarhill’s popularity, fa-
mous name, and availability. One SAB source said that the
group also looked at bands such as George Clinton and P-
Funk, moe, James Brown and Bela Fleck, but that because of
scheduling problems and unavailability, Run DMC and
Sugarhill got the call.

The concert doors open at 8 p.m. on Thursday, and the
concert will most likely start around 9. Tickets go on sale
this week in front of the Co-op, $12 for students with their
W&L cards, and $15 for everyone else. Tickets will also be
on sale at the door for $15 for everyone.

February 28, 2000

OPINION:
Perspectives: Beware! !

W&LIFE:
Lights, luck, luxury. . . Vegas

SP(_)RTS2_ _
Spring’s in the air

LAST WORD:
FD FAQs

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

photo by Emily Barries/Photo Editor
GivE’EM HEci<!:Junior David Sigler
winds up in this past week’s game.

 

PAGE 2

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂtii

  NEWS

piiulu vy bmlly names/rnoto I‘.dlt0l'

 “PUT ME IN COACH, I’M READY TO PLAY!” Spectators at last week’s baseball game carry the tailgate tradition over into February.

, The parking garage saga continues.
.' Originally slated to open this week, the
' tentative opening date has been moved
back to March 15.
The garage is four levels high and
has a capacity for 607 vehicles.
During regular business hours, the
garage will be open to all faculty, staff
and visitors. Commuting students and
students living in the sorority houses
also will be allowed to use the garage.

  

E-mail General Notes to 
II

 

West-Settle to give Class of ‘62 lecture

Cecile West-Settle, associate professor of romance lan-
guages at Washington and Lee University, will present this
year’s Class of 1962 Fellowship Lecture on Wednesday,
March I at 7 p.m. in Leybum Library’s Northen Auditorium.
The title of her lecture is “Sleeping Beauty Awakes: Vital
,Mo(nu)ments in the Recent Poetry of Luisa Castro.” The
lecture is open to the public and a reception will follow.

The Class of 1962 Fellowship Program was established in
1987 with a gift of an endowment to support the scholarship
and research of the undergraduate faculty.

The Class of 1962 presented the gift at its 25th reunion

-..“to acknowledge its indebtedness and gratitude to the Uni-
versity for the undergraduate education it received and to
.make an expression of the gratitude in a manner that will
beneﬁt the University in a substantial way.”

The funds are awarded in conjunction with an approved
full-year faculty leave research project. Upon completion of

_ the leave year, each Class of 1962 Fellow presents the re-
., sults of the project to the University’s faculty and students.

West-Settle received her B.A. in 1966 from Agnes Scott
College and Ph.D. in 19th and 20th century Spanish litera-
ture in 1983 from Emory University. She joined the W&L
faculty in 1987 after teaching Spanish at Virginia Military
Institute from 1983 to 1987. Her ﬁeld of specialization is the

itontémporary prose and poetry of Spain.

Any»

93rd Fancy Dress Ball on March 3

Washington and Lee University will hold its 93 rd an-
nual Fancy Dress Ball on Friday, March 3 at the
University's Warner Center/Doremus Gymnasium complex.

The annual event has its origins in a costume ball that
fonner University librarian and drama teacher Annie Jo
White staged for her students in 1907. Over the years, the
Fancy Dress Ball has become the gala social event of the
year at W&L.

The theme for this year’s ball is “Lights, Luck,
Luxurydestination Vegas.” The black tie event annually
draws over 2,000 students, alumni and guests and will fea-
ture The Ray Caddell Swing Orchestra and Casper. The
event, sponsored by the Student Activities Board, gets
underway at 9:30 p.m.

Other Fancy Dress related activities include a concert
by Run DMC and The Sugar Hill Gang on Thursday night.

The garage contains two eleva-
tors. One elevator. is located near
the footbridge and another elevator
is located at the end of the garage
near the Lenfest Center. The first el-
evator has access from all four park-
ing levels, but _there is no access to
the Lenfest-side elevator from level
one of the garage.

To get to campus, walkways to
the original footbridge and Lenfest

Bored? Too much time to kill on a Sunday night?

HELP!

Work for the Phi. Don’t call us, and we’ll call you.

;Parking deck opening delayed

Center are located off level four of
the garage. The bridge to the new
sorority houses is located off level
three of the garage.

As soon as the garage opens, all
parking in the lots in front of Doremus
Gymnasium, the Williams School,
Reid Hall and the drive to the library
will close. Additionally, the driveways
behind the gym, the Lee House and
the dining hall will be used only for

      

Latin music comes to Lee Chapel

The Sol y Canto Trio will perform Latin American mu-
sic in Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University on
Thursday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m. Namu, a Ugandan story-
teller, musician and dancer, will perform in Lee Chapel on
March 8 at 7:30 p.m.

Sol y Canto has been praised by the Boston Globe as
“sublime ambassadors of Pan-Latin tradition,” and are
known for their upbeat bilingual Afro-Latin and Carib-
bean dance and folkloric rhythms.

Named for the sun (sol) and for song (canto) the trio
combines the talents of Puerto Rican/Argentine singer/
percussionist Rosi Ambor with those of her husband,
the New Mexican guitarist/composer Brian Amador, and
of the Spanish/British/Puerto Rican vocalist and multi
instrumentalist Alan del Castillo. ’

In addition to their rich three-part hannony vocals, the
ensemble performs on Spanish guitar, bongos, a multi-
tude of small percussion from all over Latin America, a
quena (bamboo ﬂute) and the Central American ocarina,
a small ceramic wind instrument.

The program includes a haunting Venezuelan tonada,
a percussion—driven Afro-Uruguayan candome and a Cu-
ban son. The group will also perform a ﬂamenco guitar
solo, a bilingual lullaby, an Afro-Peruvian lando, a Brazil-
ian ijex, and Argentine tango and a danceable Puerto
Rican bombas and plenas.

Sol y Canto has recorded several CD5, among them
Senero del Sol and Sancocho, chosen by the Boston Globe
as one of the ten best recordings of 1994.

The concert is sponsored by the ofﬁce of international
education at W&L, with support by the Pickens Endow-
ment for the Performing Arts. There is no charge for ad-
mission and all are invited to attend.

Cable Two to rebroadcast Mock Con

Washington and Lee’s Cable Two station will rebroad-
cast selected speeches from Mock Convention 2000. All
broadcasts begin at 8 p.m.

The schedule is Monday, March 6 sessions I and II
with former Sen. Bill Brock (R-Tenn.), Gov. Frank Keating
(R-Okla.), Mayor of Jersey City Bret Schundler, Virginia
Attorney General Mark Early and Republican National
Chairman Jim Nicholson.

Tuesday, March 7 sessions [I and III with Rep. J.C.
Watts (R-Okla.), Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and former
Secretary of Education Bill Bennett. Wednesday, March

session III features Sen. Bob Dole, the 1996 Republican

presidential nominee.

  

again

service vehicles. Limited parking will
remain in front of the security ofﬁce
for service vehicles and handicapped
parking.

The total net gain in parking is ap-
proximately 350 spaces, with 100 of
those spaces designated for the new
sorority houses.

Broadcast voice and e—mail mes-
sages will be sent out to the campus
community with the ofﬁcial opening
date for the garage. Information also
will be posted on the web at
www.wlu.edu/news.

— courtesy Brian Logue

 

FEBRUARY 28, 2000

Alcohol a factor in

most student arrests rt

Veteran officer offers insights on LPD

By Daniel Sozomenu
STAFF WRITER

It’s no big secret that students at
Washington and Lee enjoy alcohol.
While drinking is something that’s
usually sloughed off as an excess of
the young, in Lexington, the indul-
gence is more like a plague.

According to Lexington patrolman
Mike Hess, 80 percent of his arrests in
the ﬁve years he’s been here have
been alcohol related. This includes di-
rect infractions such as DUI’s (Driv-
ing Under the Inﬂuence), MIP’s (Mi-
nor in Possession) and public drunk-
enness, as well as indirect infractions,
such as assault and vandalism stem-
ming from alcohol.

“I think it’s partly the university’s
fault,” Hess said. “For those first
couple weeks at the beginning of the
year, they have those fraternity par-
ties which basically encourage under-
age drinking.”

Hess isn’t just railing out against
what he thinks is generally irrespon-
sible behavior. He’s generally con-
cerned for the safety of the students.

“Every Friday or Saturday night in
the ﬁve years I’ve been here, wouldn’t
a night go by without ﬁnding a co-ed,
drunk as a skunk, wandering around
alone on the streets of Lexington,”
Hess said. “If a serial rapist off the
interstate, or some sort of sexual preda-
tor, found about this place, he’d be
having a buffet.”

While that may sound slightly
crass, Hess’s point resonates. He feels
that Washington and Lee students get
a false sense of security in their bu-
colic little community, and ultimately
put themselves in danger.

Coincidentally, Hess states that the
increase in alcohol related arrests ac-i
tually ensures the students the safety
they otherwise may be jeopardizing.

LIKE FREE TICKETS?

LIKE GOOD MUSIC?

The NEW WLUR 91.5 FM will
be giving away your chance to
win free WLUR CD5 and free
tickets to the April 6 Red Hot
Chili Peppers & Foo Fighters
show in Roanoke. Listen
between 5 and 5:30 p.m.

everyday this month to win.

ROCK 2-8 P.M. EVERY WEEKDAY
RAP — 8-12 A.M. WED. & FRI.
DANCE -- 8-12 A.M. THURS.

SKA — 8-10 P.M. MON.

“We know that in jail, you’re not
going to get hurt that night, or raped,
or put yourself in a position to hurt
yourself,” Hess said. “You sober up
in a safe environment where you’re su-
pervised.”

While this may sound benevolent,
there’s a deeper logic behind this prac-
tice: the police department’s own
safety from litigation. The police de-
partment may actually be held ac-
countable for negligence should an
officer stop a student on the street for
drunkenness, and simply let that stu-
dent go with a warning. Should some-
thing happen to that student thereaf-
ter, the police department may be held
accountable for his or her welfare.

“If you think about it, I am the last
person who has a chance to put that
student someplace safe,” Hess said.
“If something happens to that student
after I’ve seen him, it’s technically my
fault.”

Hess says that he and other ofﬁc-
ers often feel that an arrest is unfair,
and instead will summon W&L secu-
rity to safeguard the student and bring
the student home. Still, that doesn’t
alleviate the liability issue.

“Technically, if a security ofﬁcer
bringsiyou home, he is supposed to
stay with you until you sober up,”
Hess says. “Otherwise, W&L could
face the same sort of problems.”

One other reason for the increase
in arrests is officers’ individual discre-
tion. Hess notes with joviality that
some ofﬁcers, particularly recent ad-
ditions to the force, are a little more
zealous to show that they’re enforc-
ing the law.

“What they see as a major infrac-
tion may not be seen as such by some-
one with more experience,” Hess says
with a smirk. “Me, I’ve been on the
job 25 years. I don’t have to prove

anything to anybody.”

   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     

‘K

J

(

r
I

2*‘:

  

I

5

i

 

FEBRUARY28,2O00

O PiN‘““ibN

PAGE3

. Calling home

My mom called the other day and we had a lovely
discussion. She was surprised that I was so talkative and
pointed out that our telephone conversations are usually
painful. I had to agree. Normally, mom talks about the
neighbors’ children and people whom I don’t know or
care about. I just sit there interjecting a random, “Oh re-
ally,” “That’s funny,” or “Interesting.”

What seems like two hours later (probably only ﬁve
minutes), dad gets on the phone bitching me out for be-
ing so stupid. His points make perfectly logical sense. In
all honesty I am
an immense fool
when dealing
with practical
matters. Dad’s a
practical guy;
I’m not. For in-
stance, my Spring Term course registration opened at 3
p.m. on Friday. I forgot about it even though many people
reminded me, asking “So Pesce, what classes are you
taking Spring Term?” I responded, “Phooey yo, I forgot
to register.” Luckily, I remembered before my window
closed on Sunday afternoon. So the answer to the ques-
tion is, “My last history seminar,” for anyone who cares.
Life is all about details, and I just do poorly with details.
So I guess that speaks poorly about me on life, but I deal.

Anyway, mom gives the phone to dad who complains
about my ﬁnancial management skills. “Take an account-
ing or business class, you idiot.” “But dad, I’m not good
with money.” “Yes, genius, that is why you need to take a
business class.” “But shouldn’t I concentrate on my
strengths?” “One day your life will depend on your abil-
ity to perform well on those aspects of life at which you
have proven incompetent.” “Yes dad, I know.” “Here, your
mother has something else she wants to tell you.” “Ok”
“I forgot to tell you what happened to Mr. Pela at choir
rehearsal. Blah, blah, blah.” “Oh really.” “Wak wak wak
wak. Wak wak wak wak wak wak. Wak wak.” “Interest-
ing.” Then our weekly duty ends.

This recent phone call, however, differed from most.
Mom began by telling me, “Dad is out doing your job.”
“Cutting the grass?” “Of course. He’s already complain-
ing about the heat. It’s been 80 degrees and humid here
all week.” Then we made fun of dad’s barrage of com-
plaining. We talked about the Mardi Gras excitement back
home. Then we made fun of my brother for cutting his
hand on a beer bottle. Silly Doug!

Next mom told me about her upcoming dental work —
three root canals. Fun stuff. We talked about how ugly
her teeth are. I told her that she needs dentures. Getting
upset, she cracked some mean “yo momma” jokes. She
really knows how to go for the jugular. I knew it at age
ﬁve when I used to say, “Meannie,” and get smacked
upside the head.

So dad came in from cutting the grass and gave me a
little pop quiz. “How much money is currently in your
checking account? How much have you charged to the
Visa card?” I asked to poll the audience. He was not
amused. I thought I was pretty darn clever. I’m still pat-
ting myself on the back for that one.

In any case, mom got back on the phone and we talked
for a while longer. She said that she enjoyed the phone
call and told me that most of the time I am not fun to talk
to. I took issue with that comment. I talk to myself all the
time. I get quite a kick out of my conversation.

Well, even if this article has meant nothing at all to you
and you feel dumber for having read it, it means a lot to
me. I use it as a type of psychotherapy. Perhaps next time .
I will tell you all about the Pesce family Thanksgiving
dinner. Introducing the crazy character of my grandfather

provides much amusement.

 

Off His Rocker
Stephen Pesoe ’01

 

Ellie iling-tum ilﬁhi

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Emily Barnes

Lisa Lin

Dave Hanson
Tiffany Friedel

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent. ‘

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http.‘//wlu. edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

SPRING TERM IN FEBRUARY? Professor Kary Smout took advantage of the beautiful
Writing class outside on the steps of Lee Chapel.

photo by someone/Assistant Photo Editor

weather last week and taught his Advanced Creative

1,001 things: Lack of climate control

Perhaps it is the recent arrival of warm weather that has
compelled me to whine about warmth this week, though
more likely it is simply my constant urge to complain to
anyone willing to listen directing my gripes. Hey, lucky

« you.

I for one am very happy that Mother Nature has de-
cided to bless this place with sunshine and humidity (if
only I had curly hair that could be a whole different article)
— kind of makes those of us who went
somewhere warm feel a little stupid and
those of us who went. . . uh, home a
little less gypped.

The Hill has once again resumed its
lazy lounger lawn décor and there is an
air of joviality among students. Going to class is that much
more distasteful with the sun pouring through the window
and the very loud co-op talkers’ conversation permeating

 

through layers of concrete and brick to remind you of life _

outside. The lure of warm rooms as an escape from the
bitter, windy cold outside is no longer as potent as it once
was. . .

Though, let’s be honest here. I was certainly never lured
into the C-School because of warmth. In fact, the C-School
and, well, pretty much every other building on campus,
has the most wackjob heating system, I think it is safe to
say, in the entire country.

I mean, you would think that with enough money and
trustees to build sorority houses and reseed the front lawn
every other week someone could ﬁnd a way to install a
normal heating device. Oh, but no! That would be too
easy. It seems no one has even made an effort at tempera-
ture control.

I suspect the whole control part has been neglected
and the heating plant has been allowed to develop a mind
of its own entirely. Instead, with every class, your body is
forced to spend a good portion of the hour acclimatizing
to any number and extreme of temperatures.

But let’s take the C-School as the first example. . . It is
hard enough to have to pay attention during class when it
would be so much nicer to be sitting on a bench, but slowly
roasting to death only adds to the agony. Once your body
has adjusted to the horriﬁc shock on entering the C-School
(the actual weather outside makes no difference because
no matter what season it is, the building will be the exact
opposite temperature outside), it is doubly hit upon enter-
ing any one of the classrooms. What’s more, there is no
escape.

. There is no opportunity to crack a window and allow
sweet breezes to waft in and relieve you. In fact, friends,
do not even try to open the windows, it will be in vain,
because for some very unusual reason they are conve-

 

, Lhgmmeﬁﬂlﬁnp
 Katy Harding ’01

niently painted shut. And, as if that wasn’t enough, it
takes a rocket scientist to put the damn blinds down, so
along with being sweated out you will be burnt out as
well.

The problem here though, is that you caimot prepare
for this kind of interior weather by dressing in bathing
suits because if you have a class in a different room, then
chances are you will freeze to death (um. . . can you say
room 327).

I go from being red from heat ex-
haustion to blue from hypothermia. If
you are lucky enough to find a func-
tioning computer in the lab then you
are sure to turn into an ice block and
if you are lucky enough to get a couch in the library then
you will suffer second-degree burns from over exposure
to the sun.

There is no happy medium. I don’t even know if this
has been proven, but I will make guess that extremes in
temperature are not good for a human body.

This kind of dueling temperatures is not just an idio-
syncrasy of the C-school either. No! Students of every
major get to experience the wonder that is W&L climate
control (what control?!?!). If you walk into the Registrar’s
office any month before December and any date aﬁer Feb-
ruary then you have to be outﬁtted by polar expedition
experts — the air conditioning as well as the attitudes are
perpetually set to frigid.

Yet, once again, if you enter the adjoining J-School
then you have to promptly strip to compensate for the
heating overkill. Your body is constantly questioning what
hotness to anticipate next. However, it’s not as if you can
expect any regularity further down the Colonnade.

It seems that though new, the Science Center utilizes
the same heating philosophy as the rest of campus (or it
could also be that it is essentially a greenhouse that makes
that building insanely hot).

Oddly enough, the only building that seems to main-
tain some endurable temperatures is the Library. But, there
it is a win-lose situation. Yes, you won’t have tote your
personal fan and wool sweater along with you, but rather
than die from heat exhaustion, your eyes will be seared
shut from having to stare at the beautifully colored walls
for too long.

You know, people, it’s the little things that make a
difference; the 250th imprinted napkins, the cabbage
plants on the island near Security. Inherently these
things are taken for granted and you don’t really miss
the until they are gone. Well, I never thought that I
would miss dependable air temperature. It’s kind of
irritating actually.

uote of the Week:

 

I can do it, alright. I know
all about making love.

— Anonymous junior girl

Staff
  Editorial

We could not silently stand by as the Admissions Office
changed this year’s Honor Scholar “weekend” to the Sun-
day, Monday, and Tuesday of this week. In this oh-so-
subtle change, they deprived us of all the fun and excite-
ment of Honor’s Scholars past. Some examples: that guy
and the girl in Newcomb, exploring each other’s “academic
records” late night; that famous ice luge/hall crawl night at
Pika three years ago that was the downfall of many a present
junior; the HS who unable to find his way home from Red
Square and just climbed a tree and spent the night there.

This year, however, we will have no such stories to tell,
and more importantly, neither will they. We understand that
the focus is an academic contest, but it is also a chance for
the Admissions Ofﬁce to bring some perspectives here who
may be on the bubble or need some convincing, and to sell
our school to them. We all know a large part of this school
is the social scene; yeah we have great academics, but what
is unique is the dynamic between social and academic life.

So in our mission to provide the public with the informa-
tion that they need, here goes. To the Honor Scholars, even
though you won’t see a lot of it if any, this school parties
like no other and that’s the way we like it. Over 75 percent of
us are Greek, like to drink, and have a great time partying.
There is a reason we are rated one of the top drinking schools
in the country, because it’s true. Some would say that this
isn’t a selling point for these impressionable youths, but
we would rather have them know and make their decision
based on a true knowledge of the school they are choosing.
So with that knowledge in hand kiddies, good luck, make
the right decision for you, and remember that if you do go
out, that a tree is never a good place to spend the night. i

ii

TALI{back...Why are you looking forward to FD?

“It will be nice to see the work
ﬁnished and to have a life again.”
-Catlierine Mead ’01

“I want to see how our work pays off
and how people respond to it.”
-Latrina Stokes ’02

“I decorated the entryway and
first impressions are important.”
-Graham Frankel ’02

 

“The theme is really fun and
lighthearted.”
-Emily Hager ’02

 

 

PAGE 4 '

  5 : i (I112 filing-tum iﬂlii

IFE

FEBRUARY 28, 2000

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

With Mock Con barely over, an-
other huge event looms in the near
future, “The social event of the
South”: FD. The person responsible
for bringing it all together? Wash ing-
ton and Lee University junior
Catherine Mead.

Mead is double majoring in poli-
tics and European history and plans
on using neither of them in her life
profession. She hopes to do events
planning after college, planning cor-
porate PR events such as large par-
ties and banquets. “I can’t imagine
a deskjob. I need to be moving, so
[events planning] keeps me on my
toes,” she said.

Last year she was the FD deco-
rations subcommittee chair, and last
spring she decided to apply to be
the FD chair this year. She is very
excited about the progress so far
and promises, “This year, we’re go-
ing all out for Vegas!”

Recently she has been devoting
40 hours a week to FD preparations.
She doesn’t begrudge the time and
work at all, though. “It just has to
get done,” she said. “It’s fun. I
wouldn’t change it.”

Somehow she manages to balance
the time commitment of FD with being
the Kappa Delta sorority president and
a participant of club softball.

Q: What was your favorite Hal-
loween costume growing up?

A: “A genie costume [like from
“I dream of Jeanie”]. I wore a purple

Signature Student
Ga/£er1he 77(ea0/ ’0]

leotard under it, and there were sheer
billowing pants and a little hairpiece
thing with a veil over my eyes.”

Q: Who is your hero? And why?

 

Photo courtesy of the Calyx

A: “My mom.That could take up
a whole article . . . Ijust really ad-
mire her strength, her integrity, and
the fact that she’s always been my
best friend.”

Q: What are your favorite quotes
or life mottoes?

A: “Laugh at least once a day.”

“There’s no shame in trying and
losing. There’s only shame in not
trying at all.”

Q: If you had to give up either
the ability to see, to hear, or to
speak, which would it be?

A: “Probably to speak. I couldn’t
give up seeing . . . you can commu-
nicate so much emotion with your
eyes. And I’d hate to not be able to
hear my friends’ and family’s
voices.”

Q: By what words do you hope
to be remembered?

A: “Honest, trustworthy, and
genuine.”

Fancy Dress presents a night in Vegas

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

FD. The two letters on everyone’s
lips and consistently running through
everyone’s (or at least all the
girls’) minds. What exactly is
it? We all know that it is “the
social event of the South” and
“W&L’s $80,000 answer to
prom,” but what exactly is it?
The answer is: another W&L
tradition that keeps campus the
happiest in the nation (or at
least really close).

Usually in the middle of win-
ter term, the term notorious for
being the most cruel both to
freshman guys and the GPA-
conscious, the Fancy Dress
ball is a break, a night of fun,
kicking back, and letting things
go on the dance ﬂoor. The fun
is a constant in all the FD’s
W&L has had. The difference
each year comes with the
theme, which determines the
decorations, some students’

mittee open up in the fall of the follow-
ing year. This year, a little less than 50
people are on the FD committee, bro-
ken down into seven other sub-com-
mittees: decorations (which is then

Entertainment at FD will include
Casper and the Ray Caddell Swing
Orchestra, plus a few surprises that
people will ﬁnd out there. There will
be a rafﬂe for the opportunity to win a

it will look like] a surprise so we don’t
give it all away.” Mead said.

The committee and contract work-
ers moved in to the Pavilion on Feb. 5,
and a few people stayed over Feb
Break to work.

“Now’s the really
big crunch time,”
Mead said.

The group moves
into Warner center on
Tuesday to begin set-
ting up there.

Only those on the
committee know ex-
actly what to expect
the gym to looklike
when FD rolls around
Friday nightat 9p.m.,
but those who have
experienced FD be-
fore know to expect
something great.
Last year the theme
was “Le Bal Masque:
a Renaissance ofthe
First Fancy Dress
Ball.” The theme was

outﬁts, and the general level
of excitement on campus.

FD has had almost every
theme one could think of (which makes
the jobs of the steering committees a
little harder), from the Chinese Court
of Chu Chin Chow (1921) to the C010-
nial Ball (1932) to King Arthur’s Court
(1950) to the Lost Cities of Gold (1984).
A 1963 pre-F D cocktail party in honor
of the chairman had a Playboy theme.
Themes have varied, but the wonder-
ful experience of Fancy Dress-goers
has remained the same due to the hard
work of the FD Steering Committee.

The FD Chair is chosen in the
spring, and other positions on the com-

28- 

Sophomores begin Spring term Web
* F istratibri at assigned times.
.‘,‘Ralph,E1lison’s Juneteenth:
, , ,g‘'the Narrative Color Line,’;..
F F Callahan. Room 327, C-school.

. W&L vs. Stetson Univer-

ityicourts.

Qspirituaiiiy and Healirigi'nJu'- 
, anessa0chs,University ofVir'- . “
com 327, Williams School. , -

istration at assigriedvtimes.

CLOTHING DRIVE!

SPONSORED BY THE PANHELLENIC COUNCIL
TO BENEFIT PROJECT HORIZON

Donations will be collected in Leyburn Library
between Feb. 28 — March 8.

Any donations are greatly appreciated, but
especially formal wear, accessories and purses.
All items will be sold through Tempt Me,

a local consignment shop.

Come support this great cause!

   

a..-

broken down for speciﬁc comers of
the large gym, the small gym, the en-
trance, the balcony, and the hallway),
construction, entertainment, playbill,
memorabilia, public relations, and in-
vitations. A little over 20 other people
are serving as contract workers for the
dance, building and setting up deco-
rations in exchange for FD tickets for
themselves and their dates.

The theme is chosen in October but
kept secret (as much as possible at
such a small school) until the invita-
tions go out a couple weeks before
the dance, to build anticipation and
then extra excitement when they ﬁnally
do come out. Students returning from
Feb Break this year found their pull-
out deck of cards invitations announc-
ing this year’s theme: “Lights. Luck.
Luxury. . . destination Vegas.”

trip to Vegas. About 2000 invitations
have gone out for the event, to stu-
dents, faculty and staff, and some
alumni.

Decorations are the biggest ex-
pense and receive the biggest chunk
of the budget, because it gets expen-

sive to go out and buy decorations ,

and the makings for them, such as lum-
ber and paint.

Fancy Dress chair junior Catherine
Mead (’01) said that this year’s deco-

' rations will include lots of lights, bright

colors, and big decorations. There will
be a lighter tone to it, and yet it will
also incorporate some elegance. There
will be a lounge feel in part of it, yet
also the big buildings and lights as-
pect. Lots of things will,be,.built ona
large scale. F 1

“We’re trying to keep [exactly what

Most W&L students Lave

Based on wal cunt Survey
data tram 1998, 1999

Funded In: a grant from

Virginia nenartment 0' 
Mﬂllllﬂlili Beverage Cﬂlllflll

_ I Photo by Tiffany Frieder/Assistant Photo Editor
FD committee members work on decorations Saturday afternoon in the Pavilion.

  

that ofthe ﬁrst FD,
used again in com-
memoration of the
250th celebration ofthe school. The
big gym was set up to be a banquet
hall, like that ofa castle. The small
gym had a forest, a dragon’s cave,
and a stone chapel. The entrance to
the gym was a moat, and the hall-
way was set up to look like castle
walls.

Mead says to expect bigger and
better this year.

She says that the gym will look
great, and she hopes students really
get into it. “I’d love to’ see guys
dressed as Elvis or girls with boas. The
great thing about the theme is it gives
people the liberty to do as they wish
[dress in costume or not]. It’s not quite
as limiting.”

2‘ ’Most of all, she and the committee
hope people will enjoy living it up in
Vegas for a night.

  

I

I

 

 
     

 

FEBRUARY 28, 2000

Basebal1’s
hot streak

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals
aseball team went a perfect 3-0 this
week, edging Bates in a 11-10 thriller
efore sweeping a double header from
Muhlenberg, 4-3 and 17- 1.

The Generals jumped to an 8-2 lead
after four innings in their home opener
against Bates, but the Bobcats scored 8
runs in the 5th through 8th innings to
take a 10-8 advantage into the bottom
of the ninth.

Bates reliever Kevin Welsh retired
the first two batters of the inning but
the Generals rallied to tie the score at 10
when junior Jason May scored on an
error by the Bobcats’ second baseman.

The Generals then emerged victori-

ous in the 10th when sophomore catcher
Todd Gosselink singled past a brought-
in inﬁeld scoring senior Chris Stakem
for the winning run.
1‘ Stakem led the Generals at the plate,
going 2 for 4 with 3 RBI. Senior first
basemen Russell Wren went 3 for 5 on
the day and freshman Michael Hanson
notched the win by striking out two in a
perfect 10th inning.

Game one of the double header was
another thriller as the score was knot-
ted at three entering the bottom of the
kventh.

Freshman catcher Bobby Littlehale
broke the tie when he singled in senior
outﬁelder Jon Madden for the winning
rim. .

T Junior righthander David Sigler was
the star of the game, earning the com-
plete game three-hit Victory, striking out
eight and allowing no earned rims. '
., Game two was a break from the last
two thrillers, as the Generals blasted the
Mules in a 17-1 laugher.

W&L’s offense was led by senior

E112 Ring-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor‘

SEEING 11‘ THROUGH TO THE END: The Generals’ dugout looks on
during Wednesday’s 10-inning thriller against Bates College.

2 for 3 with four RBI and two rims.
Littlehale also starred again, going 3 for
5 with three RBI and two runs.

Hanson pitched brilliantly, going six
innings allowing only one earned run
and four hits for the victory. The sweep
gives the Generals needed momentum
heading into their ODAC opener on Sat-
urday.

“Obviously it was a step in the right
direction,”- said third baseman Matt
“Bingo” Kozora. “We struggled defen-

sively a little, but by the end of the sec-
ond Muhlenberg game, we found our
gloves.”

Playing at home doesn’t hurt either.
“It’s nice to have the support of all of
the fans,” said senior Andy Thompson.

With the sweep the Generals im-
proved to 4-4. They open the ODAC
season with a double header at
homeagainst Emory and Hemy on Sat-
urday. First pitch is set to be thrown at
noon.

econd baseman Mike Elder who went

asketball ends with ODACs

Men’s basketball makes noise
in tourney, comes up short

Women’s basketball falls in
quarterﬁnals to Roanoke

By Mike Weil

,. STAFF WRITER

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

Using their ﬁrst road victory to earn the sixth seed in
the ODAC tournament, the Washington and Lee mens’
basketball team shocked Bridgewater in the quarterﬁnals
before losing to second seeded Roanoke in the semiﬁ-
nals.

The Generals jumped out early on Bridgewater for a
27-23 halftime lead. The Eagles fought back, however,
and had a 47-44 advantage with 2:23 to play. Senior
Brian Ricketts would then net a layup and add a free
throw for a three point play to tie the game.

W&L then went 8-8 from the line in the ﬁnal two
minutes en route to a 55-50 victory.

‘( The Generals were led by Ricketts, who notched a
double double with 11 points and 12 boards.

The story of the game was free throws, however, as
W&L went a perfect 19-19 from the line setting a school
record for percentage, and tying the ODAC mark.

)4‘ The Generals put up a hard-fought battle in the semi-
ﬁnals as well, but were edged 66-60 by second-seeded
and 20th ranked Roanoke.

W&L led for much of the ﬁrst half, and entered the
locker room with a 29-27 lead. The lead would hold
ilntil the 15:47 mark of the second half, when Colby
Leftwich hailed a layup for a 35-34 lead.

The Generals would never regain the lead, although
they continued to ﬁght and forced the eventual ODAC
champions to earn the victory.

W&L was led by freshman Ryan Small, who notched
14 points on three of ﬁve shooting from behind the arc.
Junior Will Ballard added 13 points and seven rebounds,
and Ricketts scored 10 points to go along with his ﬁve

oards. Ricketts also set "a new ODAC tournament
record by going 13-13 from the line in the two games.

For the game, the Generals shot 50 percent from the
floor, 50 percent from three-point land, and 75 percent
from the line. They played their hearts out in this ﬁnal
game of the season, and proved they could hang with
the top teams of the ODAC.

Rpanoke defeated national heavy-wieght Hamden
Sydeny, 69-63, to take home the ODAC championship.
Ricketts received an honorable mention in the ODAC.

“It was really big” [to play well in the tournament],
said freshman Will Cotter. “We have a young team, we
got a chance to see what potential we have.”

K Cotter stressed the importance of the seniors in this
young team’s development.

“The seniors were great for us. They were great lead-
ers and really dedicated to the team. A lot of kids in
their class quit, but they were the ones that stuck it out.
llt’s important for our freshman class to have the work
ethic they do.”

And as for the keys to becoming a top team in the

- ODAC? “We’ve got to keep our freshman class together,

-._ (1 make sure everyone’s priority stays on basketball,”
- said. “We need to follow the seniors’ example, and
»;®,’ll be successful.”

Washington and Lee's Women's basketball team closed
out their season Thursday witth a tough 72-58 loss to
Roanoke in the quarterﬁnals of the ODAC tournament in
Salem, VA. The Generals end their season with an overall
record of 13 wins and 12 losses, and a 10-10 regular season
ODAC record.

Before the ODAC tournament began, W&L faced a
tough series of road games against ODAC rivals. On Feb.
12 the Generals loss to the Roanoke Maroons 66-49 in a
preview of their tournament contest.

The Generals were led against Roanoke by sophomore
center reserve Leslie Fishback, who tallied her ﬁrst career
double-double with 1 1 points and 10 rebounds.

Two days later W&L traveled to Virginia Wesleyan
and were defeated 61-52 in a Valentine’s day match-up
before earning a victory at Eastern Mennonite 71-54 on
Feb. 16.

Against Eastern Mennonite, sophomore forward Jes-
sica Mentz scored an impressive 20 points in the first half,
and the Generals dished out 21 team assists while commit-
ting only 12 turnovers for the game. Coming off this vic-
tory, W&L appeared conﬁdent heading into their re-match
with Roanoke in the ODAC tournament.

The Generals struggled out of the gate against Roanoke
though, and shot only 29 percent in the first half while
turning the ball over 18 times.

The Maroons capitalized on W&L’s struggles, and shot
42 percent in the period en route to a 40-21 half-time ad-
vantage. Washington and Lee did not give up in the sec-
ond half though, and cut Roanoke’s lead to 12 points with
3:13 left in the game. The Generals could get no closer
though, and despite their efforts, ended up losing 72-58.

The Generals were led again by Jessica Mentz, who
poured in 14 points and grabbed 15 rebounds. Senior guard
Ansley Miller closed out her stellar W&L career with I 1
points, and sophomore guard Carter Thomas added 10
points and ﬁve rebounds.

Though the Generals’ season ended on a somewhat
sour note, it was another impressive year for the team.
They finished with a winning record, and for the second
consecutive year produced a .500 or better winning per-
centage.

They were also close to winning many other games,
games that will perhaps be won in the in years to come as
the Generals’ future looks promising.

Though the Generals will be hurt by the departure of
star seniors Jessica Morton and Ansley Miller (whose 1 1
points in the ODAC tournament gave her a record 1 , 1 65 for
her career), the returning players appear ready to pick up
the slack.

Returning next year for Washington and Lee are, among
others, all-ODAC honorable mention sophomores Megan
Babst and Jessica Mentz, along with Carter Thomas, Sarah
Schmidt, and Leslie Fischbeck.

With these solid players gaining more experience every
year, the future appears bright for the Generals.

Men’s lacrosse off and running  

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The 2000 Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team provided no
suprises during thier ﬁrst two games
of the season this week.

First up for the Generals was Elmira
College. W&L came away from its sea-

son and home opener with the 17-7

win.

Picking up where he left off last
season was junior pre—season All-
American Matt Dugan. Dugan posted
four goals and two assists. Three of
Dugan’s goals came as a part of a
W&L ﬁve-goal unanswered streak
that would carry the Generals to the
half with a 10-3 lead.

Nine Generals found the back of the
net on Wednesday’s game including
Dugan. Senior Colin Dougherty
scored three goals and dished one
assist. Senior Chris Brown led the Gen-
erals in assists with four and notched
two goals.

Sophomore John Moore and Jun-
ior pre-season All-American Pope
Hackney also both scored two goals
apiece. Freshmen Rob Brown and Will
Sharp, Senior Greg Meyers, and Jun-
ior pre-season All-American Pete
Iwancio each added one goal for
W&L.

Junior Wes Hays made ten saves
at the goal for the Generals during his
54 minutes on the ﬁeld.

The Generals traveled to Greens-
boro, NC to face Greensboro College

 

PAGE 5

  

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

DEAD IN Hrs TRACKS: Junior Pete Iwancio hands his man a ﬁrm
check during Wednesday’s home opener against Elmira College.

on Saturday. W&L handed the Pride a
stout beating, 23-7.

Dugan once again led the offense
with ﬁve goals and as many assists.
His ﬁrst two goals came as a part of
the three consecutive goals that the
Generals used to open the contest.
Dugan came back from the half with
the ﬁrst two goals of the third period
to give W&L a 13-2 lead.

The Generals have yet to fall be-
hind at any point in either of their first
two games.

Several other Generals had a mul-
tiple-scoring day on Saturday. Hack-

ney posted four goals and Meyers
came up with three.

Moore, junior Tom Burke, and
sophomore Andrew Barnett each
scored two goals on the day.

The Generals were able to work
three goalies into Saturday’s lineup.
Hayes led the group with four saves.

W&L hosts Washington College
on Saturday at 1:30. This match-up
should serve as a more accurate test
of the season to come than W&L’s fust
two easy wins. Washington handed
the Generals their only regular-season
loss last year, 8-9.

W&L records fall at ODACS

By Steele Cooper

SPOR TS EDITOR

While the ODAC Indoor Track
Championships on Saturday yielded
no great team ﬁnishes for the Gener-
als, several individuals delivered
standout performances and set new
Washington and Lee records.

Junior Marc Watson won the champi-
onship heat of the 55-meter dash, break-
ing the school record with an NCAA pro-
visional-qualifying time of 6.44 seconds.

Junior Amy Calce also smashed a
W&L record, leaping 16' 4.25" in the
longjump. In the face of tough ODAC
competition, however, Calce’s jump
only won her sixth place in the event.

In spite of such efforts, the Gener-
als lagged behind the rest of the ﬁeld
in team standings. The men’s squad
ﬁnished ﬁfth of the ﬁve teams at the
championships, and the women placed
fourth in the ﬁeld of ﬁve teams.

Other individual highlights for the
Generals included multiple second-

place ﬁnishes. The W&L women's
4x800 meter relay team ﬁnished sec-
ond in a time of 10:50.62, while the
men’s 4x400 relay squad also garnered
runner-up honors, breaking the tape
in a time of3:47.10. Senior Autumn
Oczkowski ﬁnished second in the
women's 800 meter run in a time of
2:28.25. . .

' The event was the ﬁnal team com-
petition of W&L’s indoor season and
the NCAA championships are sched-
uled for Mar. 10.

4.5:».-‘tn’ I32‘): .r‘)'-

Naturally. the c:«:3uritr“y’s prerriiere leadership ‘school

offers a renowned staff of courteous iristi~uctor*s.

 

 
   

 

I don’t know
why I call him

PAGE 6

ELAST WORD

Fancy Dress 2000 FAQ

By Kevin McManemin

BREAKFAST OF Cmw-1oNs

What is the theme of this year ‘s fancy dress ball?
According to the FD homepage, this year’s theme is
“Le Bal Masque, a Renaissance of the First Fancy Dress.”

Wasn ’t that last year ’s theme?
And how! The FD homepage hasn’t been updated in
over a year.

So what's this year ’s real theme?
I dunno. Something about dice. I think “Night at the
Craps Table.”

What band did the SAB get for FD this year?
Run DMC.

Come on, stop joking. What band is really playing?
Run DMC.

Jiminy Christmas, you weren't kidding? Those guys
are still around?
Apparently.

What decaying 80's band are we going to have next
year —— Bananarama?

I’m pretty sure it’s going to be Grandmaster Flash, as
part of the SAB’s continuing “let’s keep pretending the
average W&L student has even the slightest appreciation
for rap” campaign.

So anyway, where should I take my date for dinner?

That depends. If you’re looking to impress, go Wilson-
Walker or Sheridan Livery. If you’re going “as friends”
and already know there’s no chance of sex, just stick with
MickieD’s or Taco Bell.

That's outrageous.
The only thing that’s outrageous are the prices at the
Wilson-Walker House.

So is it true that a lot of people smuggle ﬂasks into the
gym on F D? -

Oh yes; the gym hasn’t been that full of ﬂasks since _i

Mock Con. At least this time the worst thing the drunk
people can do is throw up on their dates, rather than.,sub-
jecting the entire school to a mindless, drunken rant about
gun control.

That was pretty funny. Hey, is it true that one year at
Mock Con some students nominated Prof JD F utch for
Vice President of the United States, but the chair wouldn 't
recognize them?

Can we get back to FD questions, please?

The Rockbridge?

Sorry. Uh. . . what are your thoughts on taking road
school girls to the dance?

I say go for it. Road school girls are like riding a bike:
scary at ﬁrst, but surprisingly easy.

I hope you get lots of complaint letters for that line.
Me too.

So is it a good idea to stock up on the free condoms the
LIFE Committee gives out for FD weekend?

It doesn’t matter. Herpes is still going to be passed
around this campus faster than a bong at a Phish show.

Are you saying that abstinence is the only real pre-
vention against pregnancy and other se.xually-transmit-
ted diseases?

Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha .

Shut up.
Are we done yet? Can I go home?

I guess. Any last words of advice about FD?
Have fun, and try not to puke all over the decorations.

his fd preparations

Thursday Rent tux.
my Change into tux. Comb hair. Go to the Ball.

her fcl preparations

Sunday Drive to Roanoke with best friend to buy a
new dress.

Monday Drive to Harrisonburg to pick out some new
shoes to go with the dress.

Tuesday Try on dress. Well, that store in Roanoke
must have had faulty minors, because the dress you
picked out makes your hips look ENORMOUS. Drive
back to Roanoke to buy another dress.

Wednesday Drive to Charlottesville to buy new shoes
to go along with new dress.

Thursday Buy some new mascara and blush for the
dance. Make an appointment at the hairdresser’s.
Friday Skip classes to begin FD preparations at 9:30
a.m. That includes: haircut, manicure, brush teeth, use
mouthwash, shave legs, shower, blow-dry hair, apply
first layer of makeup, put on dress, drive to the store at
the last minute to buy new shoes, (upon second look,
the ones you had picked out really don ’t match) apply
second layer of makeup, style hair, put on perfume,
realize you don’t like that perfume, take it all olf, shower,
change, run to store to buy perfume you like, come
back, put on dress, restyle hair, put on shoes, apply
three layers of makeup and the new perfume, go to the
Ball

' /ID the/rres’

TRASH BAl2G€ TO §TAT€l‘l ISLAND

 

Friday Night at the Pawtuckctt, Rhode Island Vii (Iinic
The ruins of Pompeii: Orgius Romanus

DALLAS coweovs LOCKER ROOM
Community College Christmas A
Swarm! The Locust Infestation

A Day in the Lile of Robert Downey Jr.

FEBRUARY 28, 2000 ‘

NEW YORK
STYLE CRUST

gr»?

PIZZA, SUBS, PASTA, CALZONES,
SALADS, BEER ON PREMISES

student
travel.

plzzA

Under New
Management!

1213 N. Lee Hwy Next to Wal-Mart

463-3399

counciltravel.com
1-800-Zcouncil

£47’ IIV 01?
I14/(E 01/7'

 

“Independent

Vol. 8, No. 14 $1.95

A DYQCATIE.

February,2000

Clem Botetourt is concerned with the state of the
youth of Rockbridge County. “Them kids today, they
gets them some book leamin’ and suddenly they thinks
they too good to work down at the quarry no more, I tell
you what,” Botetourt said.

Botetourt is just one of a growing number of local
citizens who fear that Lexington’s historic industries —
like the quarry, Burger King and the tanning salon —
stand to lose their best crop of future employees should
the youth continue to be haunted by the gruesome spec-
tre of education.

Others cite education as responsible for a disturbing
demographic shift in the area. Only ﬁve years ago, al-
most half of Rockbridge County residents listed their
occupation as “hunting/gathering with stone—age tools.”
Today, only one-third of Rockbridge residents live as
primitive hunter-gatherers, while the ranks of the so-
called “educated” professionals such as doctors, law-
yers and record company executives continue to swell.

Mary Anne Saunders, President of the Lexington
Chapter of Christian Right Activist Parents, (CRAP) ob-
jects strongly to education as a tool of Satan. “If God
done wanted us to learn multiplication tables, he’d a put
‘em in the Bible,” Saunders said. CRAP advocates a
“Bible-based, Jesus—approved” educational system in
which objectional subjects such as science, math, phi-
losophy, history, English, music and art are replaced
with a strict regiment of Bible-reading and daily lash-
beatings.

But is it already too late to turn back the tide of edu-
cation from Lexington? As the following numbers indi-

Exclusive Report: Are
Lexington’
teaching too much?

s schools

cate, as many as one-third of the students in some local
educational institutions are passing basic competency
tests in given subjects:

Maury River Middle School
Reedin’ 34%
Ritin’ 23%
Countin’ 24%
Speekin’ good 42%
Walkin’ upright 59%
Rockbridge Area Regional Prison
Breakin’ rocks 53%
Makin’ plates 13%
Takin’ it 87%

cont. on pg. 17

 

“We're more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie.”

3 W. Nelson St. Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7 :00p.m.
Lexington, VA 24450 Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
540-464-1501 I Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

Inside

pgs. 3-16
13 pages of manifestos from
demented right-wing militia goons
pg. 35
great new possum soup recipe

pg. 24
adopt a trout

   

 

If you are a non-business major and you want to improve your marketability,

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California Berkeley
Summer BASE Program IS FORYOU!
july 5 - August I I, 2000
Learn the fundamentals of:
° Accounting ° Marketing
° Finance ° Organizational Behavior
° Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research
° Business related computer applications
0 Effective communication & presentation skills
° Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

 

Sophomores,juniors, and Seniors will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits,
guest speakers and student presentations.

For more information, visit our website at
haas.berke|ey.edulUndergradIbase.htm|
or contact us via email at: BASE@haas.berke|ey.edu

 

   

V

‘V.
.':

, X

-’ 2.72.755

R55?-
\/.101
no.2’;
C /2,

  

.MMt}'9 13. ttrvsaunm LIBRARY
\.I\/A.’3H‘ll~.£(:’:’L’1'l‘w)  LEE UMVERSITY’
 >. M ':‘.v.-'..¢»§»3

U112 ﬂing-tum Iﬂlttii"

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

.. y

4

VOLUME 102, No.22

White Book
review ﬁnished

Whitebook review committee
hands over ﬁndings to EC
By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Recommending a few policy changes and 250 gram-
matical changes, the White Book Review Committee and
their comprehensive, 76-page report will go in front of the
Executive Committee tonight in an open meeting.

Drawing upon survey results from the student body
and faculty, the Committee's report proposes several
“changes to improve the layout, grammar, consistency, clar-
ity and substance of the White Book.” The White Book is
the ruling publication of the University Honor System.

“The White Book was written by a committee and it
reads like that,” Review Committee Chairman Rob Bailey
said, referring to the often confusing language of the book.

To adopt any proposal, it must be supported by two-
thirds of the EC at two separate meetings, said EC Presi-
dent Jeff Cook. Tonight the Review Committee willofﬁ-
cially present their report to the EC, who will ask questions
throughout.

Cook plans on visiting most campus groups, like Greeks
and MSA, to get their opinion on any changes. This meet-
ing will be followed on March 20 by a campus-wide forum
on changing the White Book.

“The EC will consider the Review Committee’s recom-
mendations carefully,” Cook said. He added that the EC
will especially concentrate on campus opinions of their
accountability in honor decisions. '

The Review Committee recommends the EC add a sec-
tion to deﬁne the Honor Advocate program, change the
makeup of the preliminary investigation team, not allow
the accused to be punished for disclosing information on
the violation or EC hearing, allow the accused's advocates
to contact EC witnesses before the hearing, and allow dis-
cussion of information about a Student Body Hearing out-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

side the University community.

The last section of the report consists of a full, ideal

_version of the White Book if penned by the Review Com-

mittee.

photo by Emily Bamesl Photo Editor

TIIIs CEILING IsN’T TOO wELL DECORATED. Duke law student Evans Rice dips sophomore Elizabeth Alford at Friday

night’s 93rd‘ Annual Fancy Dress Ball. Many students took advantage of swing’ dance lessons earlier that week.

Going dry? Four W&L fraternities may ban alcohol

Rising insurance costs, declining image force nationals to can the spirits for all chapter housing

By Michael Crittenden

ASSOCIA TE EDITOR

Washington and Lee University
alumnus Matt May has returned to
Lexington for Alumni Weekend each
year since his graduation in 1997. Ar-
riving in town, he usually stops by one
of the local supermarkets in order to
buy a few cases of beer to take to his
fraternity house.

May, a graduate brother in Phi
Gamma Delta (Fiji), says he enjoys re-
turning to the fraternity and spending
time with the undergraduate members
over a few beers.

“Alumni like to come back to the

house and relive our college days.”
May said. “It Is a tradition of sorts to

return to your house, share some
drinks and stories, and to have a fun
time.”

Tradition or not, the national poli-
cies Of four Washington and Lee fra-
ternities may soon prevent students
and alumni alike from ever drinking in

their fraternity houses again. Set to go
into effect July 1,2000, national poli-
cies will prohibit the use or posses-
sion of alcohol in the fraternity houses
of Phi Delta Theta (Phi Delt), Sigma
Nu, Phi Kappa Sigma (Phi Kap) and
Fiji.

According to representatives from
the four national fraternities the re-
sponse nationwide has been positive.
In Lexington, however, both students
and administration have attacked the
policies. While Fiji and Sigma Nu ap-
pear to be able to reach a compromise,
Phi Kap and Phi Delt are playing a
high—stakes game of chicken, waiting
for their national fraternity to move

ﬁrst. If they don’t, both fraternities
have said they might de-affiliate with

their national fraternity. Fraternity
members have complained that the
new policies would destroy the cam-
pus social life, and prevent them from
successfully recruiting new members.
The administration has also weighed
in on the issue, in support of the stu-

dents.

“I don’t believe that prohibition of
alcohol in the fraternity houses is the
best way to educate students about
alcohol problem,” Dean of Students
David Howison said. “I really don’t
believe this will work on our campus,
because of the nature of the students
here.”

While Howison made clear that the
University policy does not support
underage drinking by students, he
noted that drinking is not a foreign
concept to Washington and Lee stu-
dents. The percentage of students at
Washington and Lee who drink, be-
tween 80-85 percent, is much higher

than the national average. Howison
also said that the responsible use of

alcohol should be the focus of the is-
sue.

“I definitely believe that there is a
place for the social use of alcohol in
fraternity houses,” Howison said. “It
is the abuse of alcohol we must curb,
not the use, and the University is tak-

LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL. The Emma Gibbs Band serenades the Saturd

photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor
ay afternoon crowd at Phi Psi.

ing those steps.”

Senior Phi Delt member Christopher
Ball agrees with Howison, saying that
the answer to alcohol problems will not
be found in the new policies.

“Drinking is a social problem that
you can’t change with one fell
swoop,” Ball said. “That doesn’t deal
with the reality of the situation.”

But for the national representatives
of the four houses the reality is that
they have chosen a way to deal with
what they see as a problem of national
pro ortions.

' " This is a national issue that is not
going to go away anytime soon,” said
Fiji’s Executive Director, Bob Baney.
“I know of at least 10 other fraternities
that have some type of alcohol—free
housing policy in lace, and at least 40
that have an alcohol-free policy as a
requirement for the colonization or dis-
cipline of chapters.”

The current movement toward al-
cohol-free housing comes as a result
of the alcohol-related deaths of frater-

nity members across the country in
recent years. In 1997 the deaths of two
fraternity pledges, one at Fiji at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy, and one at Sigma Alpha Epsilon
(SAE) at Louisiana State University,
resulted in headlines nationwide. Both
Benjamin Wynne and Scott Krueger
died of alcohol poisoning that resulted
from binge drinking, defined as hav-
ing more than ﬁve drinks at one sit-
ting.

Washington and Lee has seen its

own alcohol-related-tragedies in re-

cent years. In 1996 student David Th-
ompson died in a drunken driving ac-
cident, and in the spring of 1997 fresh-
man Jack Bowden fell out of his third-
floor dormitory window while intoxi-
cated.

According to Baney, the alcohol-
free housing movement is a direct re-
action to the alcohol abuse on college
campuses and in the fraternity houses.»

SEE ‘GOING DRY?’ ON PAGE 2

MONDAY, MARCH 6, 2000

VMI grad
indicted
for arson

1998 barracks ﬁre
stem federal charge

By Katie Clark

STAFF WRITER

A barracks ﬁre set almost two years
ago has kindled legal problems for a
recent Virginia Military Institute gradu-
ate.

John Daniel Payne ofAshland, who
graduated last September, was in-
dicted by a federal grand jury on
charges of setting fire to a room in the
VMI barracks and obstruction of jus-
tice last week in Roanoke. An indict-
ment is a formal charge, not a finding
of guilt.

According to a U.S. Bureau of Al-
cohol, Tobacco, and Fireanns news
release, these charges arose from evi-
dence uncovered in an ATF, Virginia
State Police, and United States attor-
ney investigation.

Payne is accused of starting a fire
in a room recently vacated by three
expelled senior cadets. The fire broke
out around 3:30 a.m. on May 2, I998,
moments after a “drumming Out” cer-
emony was held for the dismissed se-
niors and for three expelled freshman.

ATF Agent Bart McEntire declined
to elaborate on the obstruction of jus-
tice charge since the indictment is
sealed. Federal charges were ﬁled be-
cause the barracks is a registered Na-
tional Historic Landmark.

The federal arson statute carries a
maximum 20-year penalty. VMI cannot
revoke Payne’s degree since he has
already graduated.

The investigation was delayed be-
cause the ﬁre occurred in May, VMI
spokesman Col. Michael Strickler said.

“The fire happened at the end of
the school year, and people went away
for the summer,” he said. “The state
police had to travel to interview
people.”

Strickler said a lack of student co-
operation also slowed the investiga-
tion.

“No one was saying anything,” he
said.

According to the ATF, the seniors
who had occupied the vandalized
room had been expelled for striking
three freshmen with belts during a haz-
ing ritual. The freshmen were dis-
missed for initially lying about this rat-
line incident to cadet investigators.

The seniors were serving as
“dykes,” or senior mentors, to the three
freshmen.

Strickler said Payne did not live on
the floor where the fire occurred.

Payne could not be reached for com-. .

ment.

The blaze was quickly extin-
guished, and no one was injured. The
damage was minimal.

March 6, 2000

OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlti

Phi and Trident bashing

Memories. . . FD 2000

Men’s lax downs national rival

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

OUTTA MY wAY!:Junior Ellen Ritsch
blows by a startled opponent.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

 

 

PAGE 2

Eh;

filing-tum iﬂlri

NEWS

MARCH 6, 2000

‘GOING DRY?’ from page 1

“One reason we are taking these steps is the health and
wellness of our fellow brothers. We are not proud of what
happened at M.I.T. and the University of Pennsylvania
(where an alumnus died from an alcohol-related fall last
year),” Baney said. “When situations like this arise we
can’t sit around and say it will be business as usual. This
is not about putting someone in a grave, it’s about protect-
ing our brotherhood.”

High proﬁle deaths like
those of Krueger and

alcohol in our fraternities, we are saying it’s okay to break
the law,” Baney said. “The law of the land is not something
to just be overlooked because you are in college, and it is
not something we can overlook.”

The representatives also said the policies are an at-
tempt to shift the alcohol-dominated focus that has plagued
fraternities back to the ideals of the fraternities.

“We wish, and hope, that fraternity membership is based

more on the ideals of the
fraternity, and less on

66

Wynne have led to fratemi-
ties being ranked in the top
10 of the most difﬁcult orga-
nizations to insure; ranked
higher than bars and equal
to nuclear waste facilities
when it comes to getting li-

chapter alive

Switching to another fraternity, like Delta
Kappa Epsilon, is a viable option to keep our

—- Phi Kap President Brian Carney

drinking,” Biggs said.
“There are plenty of drink-
ing clubs out there, but we
are a fraternity whose prin-
ciples are not based on a
ﬁfth of liquor.”

Baney agreed Fiji was

99

ability coverage. Large law-
suit settlements, such as the
$430,000-plus that SAE had to pay as a result of Wynne’s
death, have caused insurance companies to avoid the risk.

According to Phi Delt Executive Director Bob Briggs,
the problem in ﬁnding liability insurance is the major impe-
tus in the move toward alcohol-free housing.

“If someday fraternities can’t get liability insurance, then
the reality is that those houses will be closed,” Biggs said.
“Fratemities are a business. It’s a tough pill to swallow,
but it's the truth.”

Members of the four W&L fraternities are aware of the
business aspects of running a fraternity, and say they will
be unable to compete with the other fraternity “businesses”
on campus if they are forced to go dry.

Fraternities at W&L market themselves on the social
atmosphere they present, May said. “Whether it_ good
or bad, it’s the reality of the situation. By taking away
alcohol from a few houses, you handicap those houses
and they will wither on the vine.”

Biggs said that today only a limited number of insur-
ance companies will grant liability insurance to fratemi-
ties. When a company does agree to underwrite a frater-
nity, the cost is usually much greater than for other organi-
zations. In a recent National Interfratemity Conference
study, the average member paid $120 - $160 a year for liabil-
ity insurance, while the average sorority woman paid $12 -
$25. According to Baney, that’s because all of the national
sororities have alcohol-free housing.

-“If we set ourselves up for risk [by having alcohol in
the fraternity house], we are going to pay for it,” Baney
said. “We are also lighting a time bomb that will eventually
explode and we will suffer from it.”

Thought Fiji did not face trial for the death of Scott
Krueger, the fear of that possibility, and the impending
cost of a large lawsuit like at the University of Texas, fuel
the move toward alcohol-free housing.

“If we have a situation where we have to make a large
pay—out because a student dies of alcohol poisoning in
one of our houses, or because of a Phi Gam party, there will
be no Phi Gamma Delta,” Baney said. “We will no longer
exist. A prudent, rational organization must take these steps
in order to stay in business.”

Members of the W&L community say, however, they
have been taking these steps for the last 10 years with
positive results. In 1989 the school started a fraternity re-
naissance program aimed at improving the failing Greek
system. Houses were half-destroyed, and the dereliction
of fraternity members was appalling, according to one
Board of Trustees member.

“The Alumni Board was so disgusted with the appear-
ance and the behavior of [the] members that it suggested
to the Board of Trustees that they ‘clean them up or shut
them down’,” said trustee J. Thomas Touchton ’6 1.

Starting with rebuilding the fraternity houses, which
included a “party room” in the basement of each fraternity,
the system has been built back to one of the strongest
Greek systems in the country. More than 80 percent of
male students participate in one of the school's 15 fratemi-
ties.

“Since the fraternity renaissance was started, the sys-
tem is better in nearly ever respect,” Howison said. “We
have seen consistent academic improvement and a reduc-
tion in the number of students arrested for alcohol-related
crimes. It has been quite successful in increasing the aware-
ness of students at W&L.”

In addition to steps by the administration to educate
students about alcohol use, student groups have also been
proactive in promoting awareness. Live Drive is a student-
run organization that organizes volunteers to act as sober
drivers on Friday and Saturday nights during the school
year. Another group, LIFE (Lifestyle Information For Ev-
eryone) acts as a resource for health information, and pre-
sents skits about alcohol use to incoming freshmen during
orientation week.

Some studentshave also raised concerns that the na-
tional fraternities appear to be sacriﬁcing their local chap-
ters to protect themselves from lawsuits.

“It’s frustrating because they’re covering their asses
and leaving us out in the cold, abandoning us,” Ball said.
“They are saying, ‘be in our fraternity, but don’t expect us
to help you in any way if something is to happen.’ We are
still liable if there’s an accident, but they aren’t.”

While the concerns of securing liability insurance and
avoiding lawsuits appears to be the main concern of the
national fraternities, all have also said that is not the only
impetus for alcohol-free housing. They also cite the prob-
lems of underage drinking, a return to fraternity values and
improvement of chapter quality control. Phi Kap Executive
Vice President Bob Miller insists that liability is not his
concern at all.

“Liability is not the issue here, alcohol use and abuse,
and the people who are getting hurt, are,” Miller said. “We
have to curb underage drinking and deal with the problem
honestly and openly.”

The other national fraternity representatives agreed
with Miller, noting that the legal drinking age in every state
is 21. Because most college students are under 21, it is
only logical to ban alcohol, Baney said.

“We recognize that around 75 percent of college stu-
dents are under the legal drinking age of 2 1, and if we allow

built on a core group of val-
ues that does not include
drinking. He said understanding that fact is necessary for
those students who are against the alcohol-free initiative.

“We want people to join for the right reasons - an envi-
romnent of friendship, academic involvement and citizen-
ship,” Baney said. “That is what our founders built this
fraternity on, not on a keg party.”

Advocates of the alcohol-free housing movement cite
improvements in chapters that have adopted alcohol-free

housing. According to Biggs, the 94 of Phi Delt’s 140 chap-
ters that have adopted alcohol-free housing have seen an

amazing tum-around.

“The positives are there,” Biggs said. “In those houses
[that are alcohol-free] we have seen an increase in recruit-
ment of new members, improved pledgeship programs [and]
academics, and safer and cleaner chapter houses.”

“The increase in the recruitment of new members has
been a welcome result of the alcohol-free housing policy,”
said Biggs. Since the mid-’ 80s the number of new members
joining fraternities has been dropping sharply on many
college campuses. According to Baney, the adoption of
alcohol-free housing has made fraternities more attractive
to prospective members.

But such a move may not go over as well in Lexington.
Members of the four fraternities are concerned with losing
potential members if they are forced to go dry. On a cam-
pus where 75 percent of the incoming freshmen drink (com-
pared to the national average of 50 percent of incoming
freshmen); and the social life is centered on parties at fra-
ternities, being an alcohol-free house is a scary proposi-
tion.

. “Rush is going to be that much more difﬁcult, if not
impossible,” said Ball.

Unlike at most schools, Washington and Lee’s formal

rush period takes place during the school’s Winter Term,

instead of during the ﬁrst few weeks of fall term. Because
W&L has rush in its second semester, the ﬁrst semester is
used by fraternities to get to know potential members dur-
ing parties and other social events. Most of these events
occur at the fraternity houses and all include the use of
alcohol. According to Phi Kap’s Washington and Lee chap-
ter President Brian Carney, it is the nature of the school.

“Students at this school are going to drink. That is the
reality of the situation,” Carney said. “80-90 percent of
the students who come to this school want to join a fra-
ternity or sorority, and to drink. This school is built on
students who like to work hard and party hard.”

The honesty of that statement is overwhelmingly held
by most of the Washington and Lee community, who are
quite honest about drinking underage at fraternities. Most
say that lack of other social outlets and the safety of the
fraternity houses, makes fraternity parties the best op-
tion.

“Drinking at fraternities is natural because there isn’t
anything else to do,” said senior Dillon Whisler. “They
are safe because they are close to campus, and they al-
low a controlled environment for students to have fun
without getting out of hand.”

The parties at Washington and Lee are controlled by
the University through a number of measures. Fratemi-
ties must register all parties with the school, and must
also provide security, and obtain a noise permit from the
town of Lexington. Howison says the system could be
improved, but that the one in place does work.

“The alcohol policy in fraternities can be improved,
and will be in the future, but they have worked well in
reducing the risk,” said Howison.

The impending July 1, 2000 deadline for alcohol-free
housing has forced fraternity members at the Washing-
ton and Lee fraternities to consider their options. All four
have expressed a hope for a compromise between nation-
als and the local chapters, but many see it as unlikely.

“They are very hard-headed and not fun to talk to,”
said Carney. “We would love to work out a compromise
that would increase the level of safety but not prohibit
the responsible use of alcohol. Unfortunately, they don’t
want to compromise.”

Carney said the local Phi Kap chapter asked their na-
tional fraternity for an exemption from the policy, but were
ﬂatly refused. He said the options now available to the
fraternity are limited.

“Our ﬁrst goal is to work out an extension/deferral
policy with nationals, in order to give us more time to
make this transition,” Carney said. “Ifthat doesn't work,
then our second goal would be to switch our national
afﬁliation to another fraternity like Delta Kappa Epsilon
(DKE).”

An extension would defer the adoption of alcohol-
free housing for some period of time so the chapter could
make more preparations for the change. Carney said this
was not likely, and that the local Phi Kap chapter had
looked into changing national afﬁliations, and had spo-
ken to national representatives from DKE. He said that at
this point, switching afﬁliations looks like their best op-
tion.

“Switching to another fraternity, like DKE, is a viable
option to keep our chapter alive,” Carney said. “It is ob-
viously not what we want to do, but we do not want to
see our house die because ofthis (alcohol-free) policy.”

Miller expressed dismay at the attitude of the Wash-

ington and Lee Phi Kap chapter saying it would be “ri-
diculous” to give an extension to one chapter.

“Why should [the chapter at] Washington and Lee
tell us what our policies are going to be,” Miller said.
“That will not work. I can’t run my organization that
way.”

Under Washington and Lee University policy, Phi Kap
would be allowed to change fraternal afﬁliations, but only
to another national fraternity. University policy prohib-
its local fraternities from existing at W&L, but does allow
any national fraternity. Howison said he hopes the situ-
ation does not progress that far, however.

“I really hope that would not be the case, however,
University policy would allow them to reafﬁliate,” said
Howison. “I would hate for a chapter to have to take that
step.”

Phi Delt is in a similar position, but has said it will not -

change afﬁliations. Instead, the chapter has created a
presentation that they plan to present to nationals in or-
der to obtain the extension policy. Ball, the creator of the
presentation, said that it outlines the chapter’s case
against going dry.

“We plan on showing that the alcohol-free housing
policy would have negative consequences here at Wash-
ington and Lee,” Ball said. “The fraternity renaissance,
improvements to fraternities, the steps the University is
taking to improve awareness, the reduction in alcohol-

related arrests. and the overall nature of Washington and
Lee.”

Ball said members plan to make the presentation to
national representatives early this semester, but said the
chances of success are fairly low.

“This is a very tough position to defend, and an uphill
battle when dealing with nationals,” Ball said. “If we
aren’t granted some sort of extension, I have no idea
what we will do.”

The other two fraternities, Fiji and Sigma Nu, are in a
much different position from Phi Kap and Phi Delt. Of the
four fraternities, only F iji’s national alcohol-free policy al-
lows for a deferral period from the July 1, 2000 date. The
policy, which allows for a one-tirne, two-year deferral, is of-
fered to chapters who excel.

The policy requires a chapter to have a house grade point
average above that of the all-men’s grade point average,
and not to be the subject of any disciplinary actions by the
University. It also requires the chapter to submit their
pledgeship program to the national fraternity, and to be in
good ﬁnancial standing with the fraternity. According to
Lipsey, Washington and Lee’s Fiji chapter should be granted
the extension. 1

“We are very, very optimistic about receiving the exten-
sion,” said Lipsey. “The response from nationals has been
encouraging and we are anxiously awaiting their response.
We have met all the necessary criteria and we are sure this

 

President Elrod continues his fight

against cancer
President John Elrod is continuing to receive che-
motherapy treatments for lung cancer.
"He's doing well and meeting his professional obli-
gations," said University spokesman Brian Shaw.
Elrod recently returned from an alumni activity in
Tuscaloosa, Ala. and plans to travel to other activities
across the nation, Shaw said.
Elrod travels to Charlottesville for treatments every
week as part of his four month regimen. He's currently

a .battling a cancer formation in his lungs.

Shaw'said the University will keep everyone informed
of Elrod's condition.

W&L to induct 53 at Phi Beta

Kappa Convocation

Washington and Lee University's Phi Beta Kappa
chapter will induct 53 current and former undergradu-
ate students into its honor society on Tuesday, March
14. The ceremony takes place at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Of the new members, there are four from the Class of
1999, 29 from this year's senior class and 20 from the
junior class. Phi Beta Kappa is the nation's oldest and
most respected undergraduate honors organization and
W&L‘s chapter, Gamma of Virginia, was founded in 191 1.

Gail McMurray Gibson, the William R. KenanVJr. Pro-
fessor of English and Humanities at Davidson College,
will deliver the keynote address at the convocation.
Bynum's lecture is titled, "Forbidden Territories: Liter-
ary Scholarship and the Mission Impossible of Robert
Southwell."

Gibson has served on the Davidson faculty since
1983 and spent eight years on the faculty at Princeton
University before going to Davidson. She earned her
A.B. in English from Duke University in 1970, her M.A.
in medieval studies at Duke in 1972 and her Ph.D. in
English from the University ofVirginia in 1975.

Gibson is the author of The Theater of Devotion:
East Anglian Drama and Society in the Late Middle
Ages and is currently writing Childbed Mysteries, a
book about late-medieval childbirth as theater, ritual
and social performance.

New York Times correspondent to

speak on 2000 Election

R.W. Apple Jr., chief correspondent for The New York
Times, will speak at Washington and Lee University on
Wednesday, March 15 at 4:30 p.m. in Leybum Library's
Northen Auditorium. Apple's public lecture is titled,
"Politics and Pundits Forty Years On: The Campaign of
2000."

will work in our favor.”

Baney said that the extension policy was added to the
original alcohol-free policy, because the fraternity under-
stands the “size of the step they are taking.”

“We are treading new ground here and breaking some
social norms,” Baney said. “We see some chapters taking
some extra time to make the transition.”

Similarly, the Sigma Nu Chapter is also seeking an exten-

sion from their national fratemity in order to make the transi- 11

tion easier. According to President-elect Matt Jacobs, the
response has been positive from nationals in working to-
wards a compromise.

“I would say I am cautiously optimistic of attaining some
sort of extension before July 1,” said Jacobs. “We are work-
ing with our alurrmi representatives to outline our position,
and plan on presenting them in January to our national fra-
ternity. Hopefully there is a positive solution.”

Jacobs said that if an extension is not granted, then he is —,

unsure of what steps his chapter will take. He says they
don’t want to reafﬁliate, and they will not ignore a fraternity
policy, but don’t feel they can survive at Washington and
Lee with alcohol-free housing.

The solution to the impasse between the national frater- *1

nities and the Washington and Lee chapters is an issue that
is still being wrestled with by both sides. At a November
meeting held in Lexington, representatives from both camps

and the University met to discuss the standoff. National‘

fraternity representatives gave a presentation of the hen-
eﬁts of alcohol-free housing. Afterwards, representatives

from Washington and Lee presented their concerns. Though
no solutions were decided on, and there is no future meet-
ings plarmed, Baney said the meeting was a success.

“The meeting was a cordial exchange of information and
ideas’ a good initial dialogue between everyone,” said Baney.

A solution has still not been reached, however, and other
than Fiji, the other three fraternity chapters at Washington
and Lee still face an uncertain path ahead. Concerned with
their survival and ability to attract new members in a system
ﬂooded with alcohol, the chapters maintain that they can-
not adopt alcohol-free housing. On the other side of the

fence, the national fraternities, concerned with the risk of _

lawsuits and deaths, are calling for a return to the alcohol-
free ideals of the founders of their fraternities. To Phi Kap
President Gherry Pettit, alcohol isn’t part of the fraternity
experience.

“Ideally I look to the day when a lack of alcohol won’t be »

a problem, an event doesn3t have to be centered on the use
of alcohol,” said Pettit.

To Washington and Lee students, however, this is a for-
eign reality. Drinking and socializing at fraternities go hand-
in-hand as part of the college experience. Said May: “There
is a reason why ‘there is a‘Iways'a'\cr_owd of peoplegaround a

keg. Whether'it’s‘ gb6d’or'bad'is' ifotithe que'stion,'it’s'jiist

the way W&L is.”

Apple became chief correspondent for The Times in
1997 after serving 12 years as chief Washington corre-
spondent and four years as the Washington D.C. bu-
reau chief. He writes extensively on a wide range of
topics, including politics, foreign policy and economic
questions, as well as food, wine, travel and the arts.

Since joining The Times in 1963, he has written from
more than 100 countries, reported on elections in Spain,
Britain, Russia, France, Sweden, Finland and other coun-
tries, and a wide variety of other stories on‘ﬁve conti-
nents. He previously has served as The Times bureau
chief in Albany, Saigon, Lagos, Nairobi, London and
Moscow. He headed The Time's coverage of the Gulf
War in 1991.

At home, Apple has been involved in the coverage
of 17 national conventions and eight presidential elec-
tions. He was the newspaper's national political corre-
spondent from 1970 to 1976. Prior to joining the paper,
he covered the civil rights movement in the South for
NBC News. '

Apple graduated magna cum laude from Columbia
University in 1961 and he has also received honorary
degrees from Denison University, Knox College and
Gettysburg College. Apple's visit to W&L is sponsored
by the department ofjournalism and mass communica-
tions.

Pulitzer Prize winner to speak at
W&L Journalism Ethics Institute

Jack Nelson, chief Washington correspondent for
the Los Angeles Times since 1996 will be the keynote
speaker at the Washington and Lee University Joumal-
ism Ethics Institute on Friday, March 10. Nelson will
speak at 4:30 p.m. in Room 327 ofthe Williams School
of Commerce, Economics and Politics. His lecture is
titled, "Joumalism Ethics: Seeking Solutions as Well as
Problems."

Nelson won a Pulitzer Prize in 1960 while writing for
the Atlanta Constitution for a series of articles expos-
ing irregularities in the world's largest mental institu-
tion at Milledgeville, Ga. He also won a Drew Pearson
Award for Investigative Reporting in 1975.

Nelson joined the Los Angeles Times staff in 1965
as the Atlanta bureau chief. He was an investigative
reporter from 1970 to 1975 and served as' the Washing-
ton D.C. bureau chief from 1975 until accepting his
present appointment in 1996. He began his journalism
career as a reporter with the Biloxi (Miss.) Daily Herald
from 1947 to 1951 and then was a staff writer for the
Atlanta Constitution from 1952 to 1965.

Nelson is the author of Terror in the Night: The Klan's
Campaign Against the Jews, published in 1993 and Cap-
tive Voices-High School Journalism in America, pub-

lished in 1974. He is the co-author of four other books, ,

including Beyond Reagan-The Politics of Upheaval,
published in 1986. Nelson is a graduate of Georgia State
College and was a Nieman Fellow in politics, history
and public administration at Harvard University.

Nelson's visit is sponsored by the department of jour-
nalism and mass communications and the Knight Pro-
gram in Journalism Ethics.

._?f.  .z_..-..,.. -\——«. ._ ..—...

H.

 

MARCH 6, 2000

OP

‘Lillie iﬂing-tum ilﬂlit

INION

 

PAGE 3

Owning up to
our mistakes

In college journalism, as in anything else, some weeks
are just better than others.

On the last page of this paper, you’re used to seeing
some form of satire; be it witty, semi-witty or just down-
right moronic. Kevin McManemin, in the ﬁne tradition
of back-page editors, is loved, hated, but mostly be-
moaned for it. Not this week, folks.

We screwed up.

Not “we”, The Phi, but “we”, McManemin and my-
self.

Last week a mock issue of The Rockbridge Advocate
appeared on the backpage of The Phi. The content, en-
titled “Are Lexington’s schools teaching too much?”,
had its mo-

ments, but

generally ——-—-"""—'-'—. _
perpetuated EX€Cut1V€ Editor
the stereo- .

type of the _ Polly Dolg m
W&L stu-

dent looking

down his nose, past the silver spoon in his mouth, at
the local community he has chosen to inhabit for four
years. This in itself, while arrogant and hypocritical given
the source, is not an error. It is ignorance and snobbery,
and overwhelmingly common at W&L. But all people,
McManemin included, are entitled to their opinions, and
it is not my place to make sure that The Phi reflects my
personal opinions. It is, however, my responsibility to
make sure that we cause no undue harm.

The error occurred when McManemin downloaded

The Rockbridge Advocate 's banner from their website,
and used it without their permission. In effect, simply
took what was not his. I personally compounded the
error when I failed to recognize the banner as the actual
one used by The Advocate, took it for just another
graphic creation, and let it go to print. Ignorance, how-
ever, is no excuse; it’s quite simply pathetic.
_ The Phi has a strict policy regarding the use of mate-
rials from the intemet, and anything downloaded is al-
ways given the proper credit. My editors know this, and
act accordingly. When a question arises, they bring it
to my attention, and we always choose to err on the side
of caution. That this happened, and was allowed to hap-
pen by me, makes me sick.

Since I discovered the mistake on Tuesday, I have
taken those steps within my power to correct it.

AMcManemin no longer has a position with The Phi. I

have spoken with members of the administration, as well
as Doug Harwood, the editor of The Advocate.

I have accepted responsibility for our mistake, and
now I extend my sincere apologies to Doug Harwood.
In addition, I apologize to the W&L community for fail-
ing to enforce the values espoused by the Honor Sys-
tern.

One of the most frequent complaints I get about The
Phi is that it’s not The New York Times, and we should
lighten up a little. No one is more aware of our inexperi-
ence and lowly status as a student paper than myself,
but that doesn't make it ﬁne for us to put whatever four-
letter words in print because we use them in everyday
life, to ignore legitimate news stories because they in-
volve our friends, or to swipe banners from the intemet.
Every week we come in and try to ﬁnd common ground
between our dual roles as students and aspiring jour-
nalists. And every once in a while, we completely blow
it. This is one of those times.

Next week will be better, I just know it.

Tillie iﬂing-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith
Opinions Editor Stephanie Bianeo
W&Liﬁa Editor Ellana Marziani
Sports Editor Steele Cooper
Photo Editor Emily Barnes

Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin
David Hanson
Neal Willetts
Tara Friedel

Assistant Photo Editors

Layout Editors

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of

libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu. edu/~pht'

Annual subsription rate: 530

////.///////////

r_r___

<>"<74f7o‘7{

\

l

 
 

‘Fancy Dress 2000: We all
need somebody to lean on

It seems like everyone has a story to tell aﬁer this week-
end, rather, after every Fancy Dress weekend. My fun ex-
perience is somewhat embarrassing. . . It all started Thurs-
day night. Good times were had by all: Sugar Hill Gang and
Run DMC had the student body jumping, getting home
from the Pavilion was uneventful, post-parties went on

skills. I made Friday a relatively early night to rest up my
ankle for Saturday. After being excused from working in
the Dining Hall for brunch because of my injury, I donned
my sunglasses and sandals and limped out to the Lodge
once again, this time to relax in the sun with the musical
entertainment of Puddleduck and the unparalleled enter-

tainment from the pledges. Pool

move my right leg?
Ypu can imagine my distress
upon having to call all of my profes-

uninterrupted. So how is it that I
W 

woke up Friday morning unable to

Tara Friedel ‘O2

noodles, ﬂoaties, beach balls, and
crutches were everywhere, as were
bottles of champagne and top-qual-

Evil Twin

sors, apologizing for missing class

due to a badly sprained ankle. You and I know they all

thought I was running around all night, drunk as a skunk,
' falling everywhere and unable to wake up for class. The
nurses in the Inﬁrmary laughed at me and made fun of me
despite my protests of “Au contraire!”

To clear my good name, I was NOT drunk so I would
have remembered pulling all the ligaments in my right ankle
and I WAS awake at 7:15 a.m. that Friday morning pre-
pared for all my classes.

Fortunately I have wonderful friends who generously
donated their time to me all day: taking me to get my ankle
wrapped and 600 mg Ibuprofen horse pills, making me
healthy snacks and fresh baked cookies to eat with my
pills, running errands for me, and basically pampering me
like crazy. It was a weird day, after all, considering NBC
was having technical difﬁculties, classes were canceled
everywhere, and my friend’s car wouldn’t start aﬁer com-
ing to pick up the math homework from me to hand in later
that afternoon. I was able to take a bath, which was nice,
because it’s incredible how hard it is to get ready for any
function on one foot, even though my room is a 10’ by 10’.

When 5 p.m. rolled around, though, I was ready to go.
Dress, hair, makeup, crutches, everything! Gretchen Tencza
was sweet enough to decorate my crutches with silver
stars ﬁt for a queen. So off Matt (my date) and I were to the
party bus the Chi Psi Lodge had rented to take us to this
amazing Japanese steak house in Roanoke (it was quite a
blessing to sit for an hour each way).

After a while I became quite accustomed to gimping
around, and thanks to quality time at the cocktail party
and some foot elevation I was ready to go to the Ball!
Amazingly enough I was able to put my crutches down
and drag Matt from room to room where we could enjoy
the bands, our friends’ company, and my creative dancing

“As a committee member, it was
hard work but lots of fun!”

—Amanda Kelley ‘02

‘‘I didn’t have a date, but who
needs one? I had a great time.’

ity Dominican cigars. The atmo-

sphere worked wonders for my
ankle and I officially gained the nickname “Gimp.” We re-
laxed for a while afterward, eating dinner at Salemo’s and
watching Happy Gilmore.

Aﬁer a brief visit to Otterville, Matt and I headed back
to the Lodge to ﬁnd everyone passed out but that group
of troopers, alums included, who get better and better at
causing trouble as the night goes on. Cheese ﬁghts and
ﬁreworks ensued as Late Night got sketchy. The time ﬁ-
nally came to call the night quits. I had to wrestle my
crutches and handbag away from Matt, who had grown
quite fond of carrying them all weekend, at last able to
sleep for those three precious hours before my house woke
up and gathered in the hallway, recalling somewhat hazy

.egperiences from the previous evening. I gathered my
strength and hobbled to brunch, where my friends will-
ingly shared the events of their weekends at other houses
and parties. I still think my weekend was the most fun.

A quick thank you to all who helped me out this week-
end in my gimpiness. I had a wonderful time and deeply
appreciate the extra lengths you all went to to make my
injury bearable and somewhat humorous. I promised you
an interesting time, right? Anything for you special people!

So how did I sprain my ankle so badly it was 25 differ-
ent colors and the size of a grapefruit? Maybe I stepped
on it wrong (I was wearing heels, after all) and just didn’t
realize, or maybe I got up in the middle of the night and fell
on one of the million black shoes scattered all over my
floor from the then recent scramble to dress for the
evening’s events.

In honor of the Fancy Dress theme of this year, my luck
ran out — I threw the dice badly, ended up with huge
gambling debts, and my loan shark sent one of his men to
come break my leg. It makes for a pretty good story to tell
everyone next year, don’t you think?

 

— John Creek ’02

“I didn’t even know who my date

7 91

W88.

— Brandon Herd ’02

Once again,
The Trident is a
hit and miss

For some reason the editors over at The Trident de-
cided last week to give their staff circus midget an-
other opportunity to be funny in a shody attack on
this paper. And much like when you release a monkey
from its
cage, it in-
variably
invovles
the mon-
key play-
ing in its
own feces
and throwing a lot of crap around. Just like Mr.
Guggenheimer’s article (if, in fact, it really deserves that
moniker).

It struck me as the tropes of a exceedingly
unhumorous individual, trying a bit too hard. Of course
most of the student body didn’t get a chance to see it
because for some reason our counterpart keeps forgetting
to get their papers printed, causing The Trident to appear

  

3 Bad<pord1B_alderdash
 Michael Crittenden 01

i any time from Wednesday to Friday.

This is understandable however, since I know the
editors over at The Trident are working hard to get all
the hard-hitting stories that we miss. Or the ones we
get. It seems that the “reporters” for The Trident seem
to have a penchant for just taking stories we’ve al-
ready done and spitting them back out three days later.
That way the student body has no excuse for missing
the “news”.

Take last week’s issue: there’s an article about the
freshmen who pulled the ﬁre alarms that we had already
ran, an article on the FD bands we had already done, and
an editorial on letting the Honor Scholars party that we
had already done.

As much as I enjoy doing your work for you and giving
you ideas for stuff to write, come on, at least have some
originality.

I also love the fact that The Trident is brave enough to
run controversial stories on topics like the swing dance
club, GCF ski retreats, the ABC store, and the Volcano
shutting down. . . again. The high level of journalism that
must go into these in-depth reports is amazing. Unfortu-
nately they are frequently written in a style more suited for
the “Highlights for Children” magazine, or even on the
level of “See Spot run.” Either that or there are complete
sentences left out.

My favorite part of last week’s issue was the letter to
the editor talking about men’s basketball that was cut off
in mid-sentence and never ﬁnished anywhere else in the
rag you call a paper. You should probably look into ﬁnish-
ing what you started.

I also am quite interested about the attack on our habit
of including weekly staff editorials. See, the whole con-
cept of a staff editorial is to express what the whole staff
feels. Hence, when we write something as a staff editorial it
can be attributed to all of us. Of course it is a tool used by
real newspapers, so you probably wouldn’t know about
that, being too busy searching for that perfect piece of
ﬂuff.

Oh, and what you referred to in your article as “nick-
names” are called bylines by newspapers. Difﬁcult con-
cept I know.

We actually have an extra copy of the AP Stylebook
and Libel Manual if you want to borrow a copy. In fact,
stop by some Sunday and we can show you how you’d go
about ﬁnding stories with more substance than a bag of
feathers.

Or you could use it to stand on so that the next time you
open your mouth we adults don’t have to lean down to
hear you all the time.

   

 uote of the week:
((

Why aren’t you guys at
Cat Fancy?

— Confused law school prospectives

TALKbaCk...WI1at did you think of FD?

“It was a lot like a high school
prom with better decorations.”
—— Divya Mohan ‘O2

 

 

(‘I112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlti

 VV& IFE

MARCH 6, 2000

 

Lights, Luck and Luxury: Destination Las Veas

   

Scenes from Washington and Lee’s 93rd Fancy'Dress Ball , ' it

I .

photo by Emily Barnes/
Photo Editor

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

  
 
 
 

HAVING A ‘BALL’: Ashley Rowland of Auburn.University, junior CAMERA SIIY? Junior Ted Adams and his date strike a pose.

Ward Davenport, Julie Stanley of Wofford College and
junior Patrick Stowe.

DESTINATION: VEGAS. Musical entertainment
Casper transports students to a place where
lights, luck and luxury rule, at Washington and
Lee’s 93rd Annual Fancy Dress Ball.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
SHALL WE DANCE? A couple sways to some of FD’s softer sounds.

 

- photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MR. PRESIDENT? Marilyn Monroe, reportedly
visiting from South America, put in an appearance.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Y’ALL AIN’T NUTIIIN’ BUT HOUNDDOGS: Students gather around special guest impersonator Elvis Presley, from his vintage Vegas days.

I

Y

 

oSl' \/\/&L/ stuclants Lave

RETIREMENT INSURANEE MUTUALFUNDS TRUST SEFIVIEES TUITION FINANEING

While TIAA-[REF

invests for the long term,
it's nice to see performance
like this today.

TlAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by    ACETJ

combining two disciplined investment strategies.

_ _ “/n - % "/o
In our equity accounts, for example, we combine . . .
active management with enhanced indexing.With two 1 YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE INCEPTION
, AS OF 12/31/99 AS OF 12/31/99 5/1/92
strategies, we have two ways to seek out

With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest

performance opportunities—helping to make your

investmentsworktwiceas hard retirement company and the leading choice on

EXPENSERATIO Combine this with our low America's campuses. If that sounds good to

cmcwm expenses and youqi see how you, consider this numberl 800-842-2776. Call and ﬁnd
EQUITIES

0.37“

T|AA-CREF stands apart from out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today

the competition. and tomorrow.

Based on wet cont survev
data tram 1998,1999 I V
Ensuringthefuture 1 8 0 D 8 4 2 ' 2 7 7 6

Fllllllﬂll II a rant from ‘ ‘ T .
V 9 i i for those who shape it.”
have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are sub'ect to additional risks from changing

currency values, interest rates, government regulations, and political and economic conditions. 2.TlAA—CREF expenses are subject to change an are not guaranteed for the future. 3.

vi    - Source: Morningstar, Inc. 12/31/99,tracking 279 world stock mutual funds.TlAA{REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real
Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.TlAA and TIAA-CREF
Life Insurance Co.issue insurance and annuities.TlAA{REF Trust Cornpany,FS8 provides trust rviceslnvestment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not banlt guar-

    n(r)tt03oT¢'!’.J\og{rEt;re/c)t(>)mplete information on CREF, including charges and expenses,cal| 1 800 842—2776, ext. 5509, for the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send money.©
2 l .

www.tiaa-tref.org

1.The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return.These returns and the value of the principal you

Buy an ice cold can of
Coca-Colai classic _
from specially marked
on-campus vending

machines and you
could win an exclusive
Universal Music CD.
Offer ends

March 31, 2000.

Look for more Universal
Studios experiences

this summer!

UNIVERSAL MUSIC

Special Markets

 

PAGE 6

SP0

Glitz itting-tum lﬂlti

RTS

MARCH 6, 2000

Lax passes
ﬁrst test

Fifth-ranked Washington and Lee
surged to a 7-1 halﬁime advantage and
held off a furious second half rally by
sixth-ranked Washington College for
a 10-8 win over the Shoremen on Sat-
urday aftemoon. The win makes head
coach Jim Stagnitta (109-39) the
winningest lacrosse coach in W&L
history, surpassing Jack Emmer (1973-
83).

W&L (3-0) went up top 4-0 with
13:24 remaining in the ﬁrst half on a
pair of goals by senior attackman Colin
Dougherty and one each by senior
attackman Chris Brown and junior
midﬁelder Bernie Norton.

' Washington (0-1) retaliated with
6:33 left in the half to cut the W&L
lead to 4- 1.

The Generals then reeled off/, three
goals in the ﬁnal 4:49, one by sopho-
more midﬁelder John Moore, and two
by Brown, to take to 7-1 halftime lead.

Washington then began its come-
back to cut the Generals lead to just 7-
4 with 2:05 left in the third. However,
Brown would add another goal for
W&L with :35 remaining in the period
to give the Generals an 8-4 edge head-
ing into the ﬁnal quarter.

In the fourth, W&L struck ﬁrst as
junior midﬁelder Tom Burke scored
off an assist from Norton with 13:33
remaining to give the Generals a 9-4
lead.

The Shoremen came back with a
goal just 18 seconds later and another
just 18 seconds after that to slice the
W&L lead to 9-6.

Dougherty notched his third goal
of the day with 7: 14 remaining to give
W&L a 10-8 lead and the defense
would stiffen to hold the Shoremen
scoreless for the duration of the game.

Dougherty led the Generals with
three goals and three assists, while
Brown tallied four goals. Norton
notched one goal and three assists,
while junior attackman Matt Dugan
added a pair of assists. Junior goalie
Wes Hays notched eight saves in
goal.

Washington and Lee will be in ac-
tion again on Sunday, Mar. 12, as it
hosts third-ranked Gettysburg in a
1:00 pm contest.

-— Courtesy of Sports Information

Visit the CRT website to receive more
information and to request
an application.

Castle
Rock

Institute

student

counciltravel.com
1-800-Zcouncil

CONTAINING THE OPPOSITION: Sophomores Eloise Priest and Emily

Generals’ win on Saturday. W&L cruised over Denison 18-10 to improve their record to 2-0.

Generals baseball earns split on weekend

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Gener-
als’ baseballteam went two for four
on the weekend, getting swept at
Saturday’s doubleheader against
Emory and Henry before sweeping
Washington and Jefferson on Sun-
day.

The Generals were unable to mus-
ter up much offense the in game on
Saturday, tallying only six hits while
striking out eleven times. Junior
David Sigler took the loss for the
Generals, allowing ﬁve earned runs
on 13 hits.

Sophomore third baseman Matt
Kozora let the Generals notching
two hits and two RBIs in W&L’s 6-3
loss.

Game two provided a similar story
as the Waspsjumped on the Gener-
als early and the W&L bats were

www.castle—roc.k.org

PO. Box 792. Brevard, NC 28712

8Z8«8(>Z» 7 59

slumping. Emory and Henry scored
six runs in the first inning, and
would never look back for a 9-3 vic-
tory.

Wasp junior catcher Josh Glaze
earned his place in W&L history,
slamming the ﬁrst ever home run in
the new Smith Field. Senior
rightﬁelder Schuyler Marshall went
2-for-3 to lead the Generals offen-
sively. The losses were the ﬁrst suf-
fered by the Generals at home this
season.

Sunday brought different results
for the Generals, as they swept
Washington and Jefferson to even
up their ODAC record at 2-2.

The Presidents jumped in front in
their half ofthe ﬁrst inning with an
unearned run, but the Generals re-
sponded in a big way in the bottom
half.

W&L loaded the bases to start
the inning, bringing sophomore

catcher Todd Gosselink to the plate.
Gosselink belted W&L’s ﬁrst home
run at Smith Field, and the ﬁrst
grand slam in ﬁeld history, giving
the Generals a 4-1 lead.

They would score four more runs
in the inning and cruise on their way
to a 15-1 victory.

W&L was led by senior Chris
Stakem who threw a complete game
two-hitter, striking out six while only
walking one.

Game two would beia struggle for
the Generals, who found themselves
down 7-3 in the bottom ofthe ﬁfth.
However five Washington and
Jefferson errors along with four
W&L hits produced a six run inning
and a 9-7 lead that would not be re-
linquished.

Freshman Kyle Droppers pitched
two innings in reliefto earn the win,
and senior David Hanson pitched
two thirds of an inning to earn the

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Owens transition to double team their Denison opponent during the

save in the Generals’ 11-10 victory.

Offensively, Stakem went 4-for-4
for the game while freshmen Bobby
Littlehale and Michael Hanson
notched two hits apiece.

Sunday’s excellent play was in
steep contrast to Saturday’s de-
bacle. -
“It was a combination of things,”
said Stakem. “Obviously Washing-
ton and Jefferson wasn’t as strong
ofa team, but we were able to com-
bine better defensive play with more
consistent offense.”

And as for the two hit master-
piece he threw on Sunday?

“I was able to throw all three of
my pitches for strikes, and Todd
Gosselink called a great game. The
offspeed pitches were really work-
ing.”

The Generals return to action
Wednesday when they host Villa
Julie at 3:00 p.m.

Women’s
lax goes 2-0

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s women’s la-
crosse team used a high-powered of-
fense and a solid defense to earn two
impressive victories this week against
Hollins and Denison.

On Wednesday, the Generals trav-
eled to Roanoke for their season
opener against ODAC rival Hollins.
The generals wasted little time getting
on the board, as freshman attacker
Leslie Bogart notched the ﬁrst goal of
her promising career 4:03 into the
game.

W&L continued its early domi-
nance, scoring four more unanswered
goals to gain a 5-0 lead late in the ﬁrst
half.

Hollins remained reasonable close
in the second half until the Generals
put the game out of reach on goals by
sophomore Emily Owens, senior
Katherine Riddle, and freshman Laura
Wilson. Senior goalkeeper Ginny
Jemigan also had a solid season de-
but, recording nine saves in the Gen-
erals’ 9-5 victory.

W&L’ s offense was even more po-
tent on Saturday as the Generals de-
feated the Big Red ofDenison 18- 10 in
their first home contest of the season.

The game was close early, and
Denison even led 2-1 8:42 into the first
half. W&L then went on a tear, scor-
ing six unanswered goals to take a 7-2
lead with 3:53 left in the first half.

The Generals added another goal
before the half, but Denison also
scored twice, and W&L took an 8-3
lead into intermission.

The Generals cam out strong to start
the second half, scoring ﬁve straight
goals to take a commanding 13-5 lead
with 24:00 left in the match. W&L
coasted to the win from that point.

W&L was led by Riddle and junior
Ellen Ritch who both posted ﬁve goals.
Bogart and Wilson also had impressive
performances for the second straight
game with two goals each. Bogart
added a team-high four assists. Jemigan
had ten saves for the Generals.

The Generals (2-0 overall, l-0
ODAC) put their undefeated record on
the‘ line Saturday at Randolph-Macon.
Game time is set for 1:00 p.m.

Please describe

{—

:4 ..«:

, p Academicgcouple‘  donoraged‘21-Z8  9  it I

 Outstanding-SATs‘-‘academics, analytical,‘even-tempered,i,‘darkb:ha.irand
I olivecornplection, even-featured, 5’7’—’_ or taller, .and lean/athletic build. , 7 I

l“

rnotivationaélong withiseverallretumable photositozf

I PO Box 22, WestKingston,
- Rhode Island 02892. A
I All serious replies answered.

<  $4,;,i:..:j’é‘f(forr1pensation$-1.2,00():.-. ),.:j’s '8

  

4.

The June 12"‘ LSAT
is approaching.

Get the score that gets you in.

Classes start March 21

at Washington and Lee

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com

‘LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council.

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
INTO DEBT.

up to a $65,000 limit.

in default.

 

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not _

And debt relief is just one of the many beneﬁts
you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

(540) 886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Under the Army’s
Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
three-year enlistment.

Each year you serve
on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one-
third or $1,500, which-
ever amount is greater,

 

It never
gets 010':
E1; article
could go
here!

Write P121’

Sports.
Email:
phi@wlu.edu.
All serious
replies
answered.

‘C

~q'

1'

‘I’

 

u

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

\=\.I.!\S3-'iNi3‘1‘xi“\l  :  is-ix’ 'E'+-SSFY
A

   

VOLUME 102, NO. 23

Idaho loses

over shirts  

Coach loses job for role in
designing controversial shirt;
student mediation continues

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Although the Mock Convention took place more than
a month ago, the Idaho delegation continues to face the
consequences of a provocative T-shirt produced for the
event

The shirt, which featured a busty black woman pro-
claiming “I-da-ho”, has been perceived of as sexist and
racist by many. Several Washington and Lee student or-
ganizations, including the Minority Student Association
and the Women’s Forum, complained to the administra-
tion.

In a meeting this past week, the faculty unanimously
approved a resolution condemning the shirts, which stated
that, “this incident and others of a similar nature are com-
pletely inconsistent with the values of the University.”
The resolution was distributed to the W&L community
via e-mail, and full—page ads have appeared in both cam-
pus newspapers.

In addition, assistant baseball coach John Baizley was
ﬁred this week, following student outcry, for his role in
designing the shirts. Baizley is also the owner of Univer-
sity Sportwear, and designs many T-shirts for various
campus organizations and events.

Sophomore Jason Williams was one of the members of
the Idaho delegation who was offended by the shirt, and
chose not to buy one.

“They were just described to me, but I had no idea
how bad they were going to be,” Williams said, who didn’t
actually see the shirts until complaints had been made a
few weeks after Mock Con. “It was really disgusting. It
amazed me that someone could even come up with some-
thing like that, that it would even occur to them.”

According to Williams, the Idaho delegation initially
said that those involved were willing to accept any pro-
posed remedy. Open meetings to discuss race issues
were subsequently held so that students might voice
their opinions. In addition, W&L president John Elrod
held an open forum session this week to address the
issue. One ofthe most common complaints was that the
administration had not reacted in a suitable manner, nor
ofits own accord.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

photo by Emily Bamesl Photo Editor

AN OPEN FORUM. Students were given the opportunity to question President John Elrod during an
open forum held this week. Many were dismayed at the initial lack of response from the

administration to the Idaho T-shirts.

“There was a lot of general dissatisfaction with the
administration for not having reacted strongly enough,”
Williams said.

MSA president Lezael Haynes was one of tho"e who
objected to the University’s initial lack of response to the
shirts. Baizley retained his coaching position until this
week, even though administrators had been notiﬁed more
than two weeks ago.

“The administration shouldn’t have had to have minor-
ity feedback in Order to know that Mr. Baizley should be
ﬁred,” Haynes said. “Nowhere else can you engage in rac-
ism or sexism and still expect to keep your job.”

Haynes also felt that the open sessions didn’t ac-
complish all that they were supposed to, because only
about one-third of the 25-member Idaho delegation par-
ticipated. Haynes has met personally with the Idaho state
chairman, junior Regan Reaud, and University Media-
tor Tiffany Cummings in order to work toward a solu-
tion.

Haynes said that those mediation sessions have been
very productive.

“A large part of that is that Reagan has realized he was
wrong, and is eager to make amends,” she said. Haynes
added that the terms discussed thus far include a letter of
apology, a full effort to recall the shirts and some form of
community service directed at a minority cause. The temis
of the reprimand will be ﬁnalized today, according to
Haynes.

Reaud has already issued a recall on the shirts, of
which there are 30, but has only gotten four back. He
gave his own two shirts to Associate Dean of Students
Courtney Penn, and has yet to account for the remaining
24. According to Haynes, another problem is that no one
else on the delegation has admitted responsibility.

“We’re hoping to get some sort of administrative sup-
port,” Haynes said. “Hopefully, the deans will investi-
gate this fully, ﬁnd out who else was responsible, and
assign them some sort of punishment.”

SAB lands a “fish” and moe. for concert

Alumni Weekend concert will
feature two diverse bands

By Michael Crittenden

ASSOCIA r1: EDITOR

Despite the impossibility of reaching the level of last
year’s Alumni Weekend festivities, the Student Activities
Board hopes to rock undergraduates and alums alike with
the announcement of this year’s bands, Leftover Salmon
and moe.

“I think it will really be a great show to kickoff Spring
Term with,” SAB president, senior Dave Levinson said.
“We’ve been trying to get them to come all year, and now we
ﬁnally have them. It’s really exciting.”

Alumni Weekend, May 4 -6, this year will feature the two
bands, neither of which is a stranger to the Lexington area.
In recent years both Leftover Salmon and moe. have played
to Washington and Lee audiences during Alumni Weekend

and at the Buffalo Creek Music Festival festivities. Most
interesting about the two bands is the diverse sound they
will bring to their performances.

SAB member senior Gavin Dean is familiar with both
bands.

“I’ve seen both of the bands since I’ve been here,” he
said, “and they’ll deﬁnitely ﬁt in with the Spring Term atmo-
sphere.”

Leftover Salmon, a group that plays a self-proclaimed
mix of “polyethnic cajun slarngrass” is most famous for its
1995 live album Ask the Fish. Led by leadisinger Vince
Herman and one of the nation’s best mandolin players, Drew
Emmitt, the band features an intriguing mix of acoustic gui-
tar, ﬁddle, mandolin, and waterhom, along with a solid bass
and drums duo, the musical stylings of Leftover Salmon
have garnered the group a large fan base throughout the
United States. The fans, who call themselves LoSers, seem
to be enchanted with LoS’s puerile humor, and penchant for
innocent fun coupled with outstanding music. Described
by one person as music “as an art form with comical antics,”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

BLOWING HIS OwN HORN: Junior Scott Meister (center) plays during a University Jazz
Ensemble concert. held on Saturday. Junior Hillary Bryant also was a featured soloist.

the group is famous for keeping it mellow.

“This is not music for people who take themselves, the
tunes they listen too, or the world in general too seriously,”
according to www.leftoversalmon.com, the group’s
webpage.

On the other side of the coin is moe., a group made fa-
mous by its long jams and eclectic humor. Named after the
old Louis Jordan tune “Five Guys Named Moe,” the group
was fonned in 1991. Playing a mix of music from blues to
pop, moe. recently released a double-live album entitled “L”.
Casting themselves as a band with a “sense of humor that
loves to have fun,” moe.’s contemporary rock masterings
have gained it a fan base similar to that of Leftover Salmon.
Calling themselves “moerons”, the fans are known to fol-
low the band quite loyally.

Student reaction has been fairly low-key this far away
from the concert, but Levinson said he thought it should be
a success.

Said freshman Ann Whitham, “They both sound like
things you find in your refrigerator.”

 

MONDAY, MARCH 13, 2000

Local stores
face e-rivals

Some Lex merchants notice
an internet-related decline in
business and retaliate in kind

By Katie Clark

STA FF WRITER

Although the nation has ﬁnally squashed the Y2K bug,
Lexington businesses are still dealing with the infestation
of a different computer pest: the Internet.

“I’ve seen a severe drop in business in the last year,
primarily because of the Internet,” said Wayne Raynal,
owner of the now-closed Night Owl Music.

Raynal says he closed his music store last month be-
cause his customers no longer came to Night Owl, an oc-
currence he blames in part on various Internet companies’
promotions.

“The bigger businesses aren’t concerned with what the
consumer wants, but with getting the consumer to buy
what they have,” he said.

Raynal says he worries about Internet pages that are
misleading.

“People think they are paying less when they buy CDs
online. They forget that they have to pay UPS fees,” he
said. “The companies don’t clearly post their shipping
prices. It’s in the ﬁne print. I wish people would realize it
would [have] been cheaper to come into Night Owl and
buy a CD.”

Some local businesses have competed more success-
fully with Internet vendors. The Best Seller, a downtown
bookstore, lowered prices to contend with online dealers
like Amazon.com.

“Once we stopped charging for special orders, the num-
ber of orders increased and we actually started making a
larger profit,” said manager Tom Lomax.

Jim Casey, professor of economics at Washington and
Lee University, believes downtown stores need to do more
than lower their prices to stay in business.

“I do not think it is a matter of protecting themselves
from the Internet, rather using the Internet,” Casey said.
“Small stores need to think about how they can beneﬁt
from using the Internet, not how the Internet hurts them.”

Marlene Benniston, an employee of Cocoa Mill Choco-
late, says her store is proﬁting from the Internet. Cocoa
Mill Chocolate has developed its own Internet site to stay
competitive in the gift shop market. She says the store has
enjoyed increased sales from trafﬁc to the site.

“We recognized how convenient it would be for people
looking for a speciﬁc product, like chocolates, to place an
order over the Internet,” Benniston said. “We’ve given people
another way to mail order candy and send holiday gifts.”

Some local businesses remain conﬁdent that the growth
of Internet sales won’t affect their proﬁts, even if they
don’t offer competing web sites.

Scott R. Bunten, owner of Reel Time, a ﬂy ﬁshing sup-
ply store, says downtown merchants can continue to pros-
per, but they need to sell unique merchandise.

“In my line of business, people like to play with my
products before they buy them,” Bunten said. “My cus-
tomers want to take a $600 reel and practice casting it in the
lot behind the store. You can’t do that with the Internet
companies.”

Bunten said store owners should be aware of the deals
manufacturers make with Internet distributors.

“My business is protected from Internet competition
because Internet distributors pay the same price I do for
merchandise,” he said.

Tom Osella, owner of Healthy Foods Market, is not con-
cerned about the lntemet taking business away from his
store because of the friendly service he provides.

“Our business is going strong and hasn’t slowed
down,” he said. “The more depersonalized the world be-
comes, the more people like us better.”

March 13, 2000

OPINION:

W&L1EE:
St. Patrick

SPORTS:

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

The ruckus in Idaho continues

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

Men’s lax downs national rival

PAGES 6-7

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
DEFENSIVE. Junior Pete Iwancio tries
to defend an undefeated season.

 

PAGE 2

 

Clinton strategist to speak

Dick Morris, chief political strategist for President
Clinton, will speak in Lee Chapel on Thursday, March 16 at
7:30 p.m.

Morris is a longtime political strategist whose clients
have included Clinton, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott,
Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld, California Gov. Pete Wil-
son and numerous other high proﬁle political leaders.

Called “the most inﬂuential private citizen in America”
by Time, Morris is the author of “Behind the Oval Ofﬁce:
Winning the Presidency in the 90’s.”

Morris’ talk will attempt to uncloak the system of power,
polls and patronage that drives government policy and
provide a riveting peek into the workings of the White
House. He will also analyze the effect of baby boomers on
politics and speculate on the changes today's generation
will bring to government.

Film Society to present “Tango”

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present a
delightful drama of music and dance, “Tango” (Spain/Ar-
gentina, 1998), directed by Carlos Saura.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on March 17 and 18, in
the Troubadour Cinema. As always, there is no charge for
admission, although contributions are welcome. This ﬁlm
is in Spanish, with English subtitles, and is rated PG-13.

 

Ellie

Tiling.-tum {ﬂirt

NEWS

Set in Buenos Aires, this Oscar-nominated ﬁlm tells the
story of a director who yearns to make the ultimate tango
movie, only to ﬁnd political, business and — ofcourse ——
romantic complications.

Featuring ﬁery music and stunning choreography and
gorgeously ﬁlmed by the great cinematographer Vittorio
Storaro, “Tango” is a treat for the ear and eye. The San
Francisco Chronicle called “Tango”, “one of the most
purelyjoyful pieces ofcinema in years.”

Ensembles prepare to go Down Under

The W&L Wind and Jazz Ensembles will present a pre-
tour concert on March 21 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center, in
preparation for their weeklong tour of Australia. Forty-
seven students will perform six concerts at the University
of Melbourne and at the music conservatory at the Uni-
versity of Newcastle during W&L’s Spring Break.

Tuesday’s performance will have a deﬁnite American
ﬂair to it. Marches by Sousa, a selection by Charles Ives,
an American original, arrangements of Renaissance dances
by the contemporary composer Jan Bach, strains from West
Side Story, a tune by Australia’s favorite son, Percy
Grainger, and a trumpet solo by W&L junior, Scott Meister
are the important ingredients that will make this concert
special for the audience and for W&L’s music ambassa-
dors. Barry Kolman, associate professor of music, con-
ducts the University Wind Ensemble, consisting of stu-
dents, outstanding local residents and W&L faculty.

The Jazz Ensemble, directed by Teny Vosbein, assis-
tant professor of music, will present works from the librar-
ies of the great American jazz bands. Selections include
works by Basie, Ellington and the Benny Goodman-Gene
Krupa solid gold smash hit, Sing Sing Sing.

The concert is free and open to the public.

Student directors present One Acts

As spring approaches, excitement builds in the Wash-
ington and Lee theater department as the advanced direct-
ing class prepares to showcase their talents in the One Acts
2000. The One Acts, a theater department tradition for over
27 years, is a student-run production. Popular for its highly
charged atmosphere and unusual plays, the One Acts draw
a large student audience eager to see works not typically
produced during the regular theatre series season. 7

Under the supervision of directing professor and fac-
ulty advisor J. D. Martinez, work for the One Acts begins
in January, when the young directors choose a short work
and begin organizing the necessary elements to prepare
the production for opening night. Decisions concerning
casting, scheduling, photography, scenery, lighting and
costumes are all made by the student directors.

The seven one-act plays will be perfonned in two sepa-
rate bills. Act 1 directors Vanessa Chen ’O1, Francis
McWilliarns ’O1 , Ryan Truax ’01 and Johnny Bubb ’00 will
present their plays on March 23 at 8 p.m., continuing on
March 25 at 2 p.m. and March 27 at 8 p.m. Act 1 features
“The St. Valentine’s Day Massacre” by Allen Knee, Fore-
play or the Art of the Fugue by David Ives, “Misreadings”
by Neena Beber and “Teeth” by Tina Howe.

Act 2 will showcase student directors Patrick Driscoll
’00, Zeenie Ginwalla ’O1 and Julieann Ulin ’O1 , featuring
“Molly and James” by Sheila Walsh, “Reverse Transcrip-
tion” by Tony Kushner and “For Whom the Southern
Belle Tolls” by Christopher Durang. Opening night for
Act 2 is March 24 at 8 p.m., continuing on March 26 at 2
p.m. and March 28 at 8 p.m.

The ‘One Acts are the most popular theater department
presentation among W&L students. No tickets are required
and admission is free.

RESERVE

OFFICERS’

TRAINING

CORPS

 
 

on a Sunday night?

HELP!

Work for the Phi.’

Call us, don’t make us call you.

Academic couple seeks
EGG DONOR 21-28

for East Coast clinic. Compensation

$12,000. Outstanding SATs and academics,

analytical, even-tempered, dark hair and

eyes,,olive complexion, even-featured, 5’7”

or taller, and lean/athletic build. Please
describe motivation along w/several
[returnable] photos to:
POB 22
West Kingston, RI 02892
All serious replies answered

Bored? Too much time to’ kill

        

SUMMER SCHOOL
  ON THEIR WAY

If you didn't sign up for
ROTC as a freshman or
sophomore. you can still
catch up to your class-
mates by attending
Army ROTC Camp
Challenge. a paid six-
week summer course in

FOR PEOPLE
TO THE TOP.

leadership training. By the
time you graduate from col-
lege. you’ll have the creden-
tials oi an Army officer.
You'll also have the self-
confidence and disci~
pline it takes to succeed
in college and beyond.

 

 
 

New an"

credit hietl   o

L@ TOYOTA real values. everyday.—] Wwwggttoyota _COm

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.

TOYOTA-101

MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY
INTRODUCING THEM NEW

TOYOTA ECHO

THERE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outelde, great room on the inelde.
Crulee the highway at 40 Ml’G’...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi-tech
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicke out 108 horsepower
any time you want it. And beet of all, Echo ie the lowest priced Toyota!

ii" thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe those with limited
r leaee a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for detaile.

MARCH 13, 2000

New dean of Law School named

David F. Partlett, professor of law at Vanderbilt Uni-
versity Law School, has been named dean of the Wash-
ington and Lee University School of Law. He will begin
his duties on July 1.

“I am perfectly delighted with David Partlett’s appoint-
ment as law dean,” said Washington and Lee President
John Elrod. “He brings outstanding qualiﬁcations and
long experience to the deanship at Washington and Lee.
We look forward to his dynamic leadership in the years
ahead.”

Partlett will replace Mark Grunewald, who has been
serving as the interim dean since July.

Partlett earned his LL.B. from the University of Sydney
School ofLaw in 1970, his LL.M. from the University of
Michigan Law School in 1974 and his S.J.D. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Law in 1980.

From 1974 to 1975, Partlett served as a senior legal
ofﬁcer for the Commonwealth Attomey-General’s Depart-
ment in Canberra, Australia, where he was responsible
for policy advice on the Racial Discrimination Act and
other related human rights legislation. .

Partlett then served as principal law reform ofﬁcer for
the Australian Law Reform Commission before joining
the faculty of the Australian National University in 1978.
Partlett was a member of the faculty there through 1987
and served as associate dean from 1982 to 1985.

Partlett was a visiting professor of law at Vanderbilt
during the 1987-88 academic year and then joined the
faculty full-time. At Vanderbilt, he has served as a senior
fellow in the Institute for Public Policy Studies and served
as chief of staff on the Vanderbilt University Chancellor
Search Committee this year. Partlett was also the acting
dean of the Vanderbilt University Law School during the
1996-97 academic year.

Partlett has received several awards and honors at
Vanderbilt, including the Paul Hartman Award (1993) for
excellence in teaching, the Distinguished Service Award
(1996) from the law school and the Thomas Jefferson
Award (1998) for distinguished service to the university
through extraordinary contributions as a member of the
faculty in the councils and government of the university.

Actively engaged in scholarly research, Partlett is the
author of numerous books and articles on torts and law
and medicine. His ﬁrst book, “Professional Negligence
“(1985) was one of the ﬁrst works of commonwealth schol-
arship to apply economic insights to tort law. In 1994, he
collaborated on a book titled “Child Mental Health and
the Law”. Partlett has recently completed the latest edi-
tion of Prosser & Wade’s Cases and Materials on Torts,
the leading torts casebook. He also has a contract for a
forthcoming book “Defamation and Free Speech: A Study
of Different Cultures”.

The W&L School of Law dates to 1849 and is annually
ranked among the top law schools in the country, serving
approximately 365 law students.

N.Y. Times correspondent to speak

R.W. Apple Jr., chief correspondent for The New York
Times, will speak on Wed., March 15 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. Apple’s public lecture is titled, “Politics and
Pundits Forty Years On: The Campaign of 2000.”

Apple became chief correspondent for The Times in
1997 after serving 12 years as chief Washington corre-
spondent and four years as the Washington D.C. bureau
chief. He writes extensively on a wide range of topics,
including politics, foreign policy and economic questions,
as well as food, wine, travel and the arts.

Since joining The Times in 1963, he has written from
more than 100 countries, reported on various international
elections, and a wide variety of other stories on ﬁve con-

tinents. He previously has served as The Times bureau .

chief in Albany, Saigon, Lagos, Nairobi, London and Mos-
cow. He headed The Times’ coverage of the Gulf War in
1991.

At home, Apple has been involved in the coverage
of 17 national conventions and eight presidential elec- '
tions. He was the newspaper’s national political corre-
spondent from 1970 to 1976. Prior tojoining the paper,
he covered the civil rights movement in the South for
NBC News. He was also a reporter for the Wall Street
Journal.

 
  

 

 

   
 

(5 ’ ‘ 9
A ' A

@

The faculty of Washington and Lee
condemns in the strongest possible terms
the racist and sexist slur displayed on
the t—shirts of the Idaho delegation
during the Mock Convention.
This incident and others of a similar
nature are completely inconsistent
with the values of the University.
They underscore the need for a
renewed University—wide commitment
to inclusiveness. We pledge ourselves
to direct action to improve the
understanding of everyone in our
community of the obligations of civility

and respect for persons.

ADVERTISEMENT PAID BY THE UNIVERSITY FACULTY

 

 

PAGE 4

OP

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum tam

INION

 

MARCH 13, 2000

Idaho T-shirt:
Get over it

In thinking ofa topic to write about this week, I could
not help but be compelled to address the Idaho delegation
T-shirt. Afterall, how can I ignore letters to the editor, a
forum, and a man resigning from his long-time coaching
position?

The Idaho T-shirt, which I’m sure by this time every-
body fully understands the design, may not have been in
good taste,
but needs to
be examined (:2 1;
without go-
ing off the
deep end. It
was not
right. It was
not appropriate. I make no excuses, but before jumping all
over University Sportwear and intentionally trying to hurt
the business please look at other facts.

Jack Baizley is a great man. He loves this school. That’s
why he’s here. He loved coaching the baseball team, but
sadly no longer is doing so. He loves this school so much
he opened a store selling W&L products. Now some stu-
dents arejoining forces in an attempt to boycott his store.
That’s uncalled for.

Since this school is overrun by the Greek system (and
that’s not a criticism), let’s take time to look at it more
closely. Hmm. . . themes of mixers. . . “Pimps and prosti-
tutes”, “Bros, hos, and 40s”, “Presidents and interns”,
“Redneck ball”, “Whitetrash trailerbash”, just to name a
few. These mixers have T-shirts. And, these all have slurs
to some extent, but nothing is said about them. If some
supersensitive group saw these names, they quite easily
could be up in arms, complain to administration, hold a
meeting, boycott a store, but they don’t. That’s right, they
don’t. Why is that? The answer is simple: It is not meant
to be taken seriously.

I think that should be said again. It is not meant to be
taken seriously.

If I was one of these overly sensitive people, I could
easily be offended by everyday life, not only here at W&L
but all over. But I’m not. I could whine and complain be-
cause women are objectified. I could have even been with
those on the anti-Idaho delegation kick and taken the shirt
personally because the picture was of a woman and refer-
ring to her as a “ho”. But I didn’t. It in no way means that

I’m passive, in fact I’m the opposite, but I know how to
pick and choose my battles and I am able to recognize
whether there is a battle to begin with. The Idaho delega-
tion was making ajoke. Do you remember what that is?
Evidently not.

Even though the students at this school are criticized
for being racially insensitive, they are not as deeply in the
dark ages as some would have you believe.

So, I think it’s time to stop pointing fingers every time
something goes wrong. It’sjust like the crying wolf prob-
lem: When you do it too often, people stop listening. At
the rate things are going, if and when a real problem sur-
faces no one will listen. And when pointing ﬁngers, let’s
be consistent. Afterall, other people are also offensive in
what they wear, say, and do.

The bottom line is that the Idaho delegation had the
right to make the shirt. It’s freedom of speech. And for
those of you who don’t like the shirt, don’t buy it, don’t
wear it, or even point at the person you see wearing the
shirt on the Colonnade and mumble that you don’t think
it’s right. I really don’t care what you think about the shirt,
just don’t try to force others to join in your crusade in
misinterpreting a joke.

Ellie Ring-tum {ﬂirt

 

- Alexander the Grape
W; Stephanie Bianoo ‘O1

 

 

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University ‘
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

https//wIu.edu/-phi V

Annual subsription rate: 530

Idaho T-shirts.

IDAHO DEBATE. Assistant Dean of Students Courtney Penn partcipates in the forum about the

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

it

Top Ten Stupid

Pledgeship Moments .

10. The pledges not being allowed to talk to girls.

9.The dramatic reading of“Green Eggs and Ham” out—§

side of the library.

8.The pledge in front of the Post Office with the “No
hope in dope” sandwich board. '

7. The pledges “Give Texas back to Mexico” protest in,‘
front of the Co—op.

6. The pledges “Give Texas back to Mexico” petition in
front of the Co—op.

5. The pledge that has to skateboard all around cam-y
pus.

4.The pledges that came to the basketball games with
“Hudson” and “Ricketts” painted on their chests.

3. The pledge in the library and science center eleva~y
tors in their own rendition oftuxedos saying, “What ﬂoor
please?”

2. The pledge that rides around campus on an orange
horse and locks it up when going to class. ,4

1. Flava Flavjamming around campus with his Adidas
warm-up suit, chain necklace with huge clock, old-school
shades, and boombox.

 uote of the Week: ,
(( I
If anyone else asks me for a
threesome, foursome,
ﬁvesome, or sixsome, I’ll. . .
ll‘

— Anonymous sophomore girl

LETTERS TO

Alum calls for racial tolerance
from W&L community

Dear Editor,

I am writing to express my outrage and disappointment
with this situation. I cannot believe that this kind of be-
havior by an employee of the university was handled in
such a lenient manner. Will someone please explain to me
why Washington and Lee is more outraged by incidents of
hazing than they are incidents of racial insensitivity com-
mitted by someone on their payroll? People are dismissed
on theirjobs everyday for simply making a racial slur, let
alone producing and marketing one under the umbrella of
a prestigious university such as Washington and Lee.

It saddens me that an institution which prides itself on
civil behavior would allow such an uncivil act to occur
without a stiff punishment. Faculty and staff members, no
matter the capacity they work in, are representatives of the
university. The T-shirt itself is an insult, but even more
insulting is the way in which the offender has been dealt
with.

As a student, I sat in on many meetings committed to
solving diversity issues and creating a more accepting cli-
mate for minorities. I left those meetings hopeful that those
students behind me would not have to take time out of
their studies to deal with these same problems. However, it
appears that my fellow classmates and I were given alot of
lip service to appease us until graduation. Things have
seemingly gotten worse for minority students at Washing-
ton and Lee. The institution needs to put some action be-
hind their words and prove that they are working towards
a more inclusive climate. Allowing incidents such as this
to pass without due consequence sends a very negative
message to minorities at Washington and Lee. The mes-
sage comes across loud and clear that we do not value
your contribution to this institution, and even worse, we
do not value your differences either.

The offending party should be promptly dismissed and
financial support for his business should cease. Washing-

3"

THE EDITOR

ton and Lee needs to send a very clear message that this
kind of behavior will not be tolerated under any circum-
stances.

As an alumnus, I am still very much involved in the
university, however my passion has always been to im-
prove the climate for minority students. Many minority
alumni leave Washington and Lee bitter and vowing never
to return. These sentiments are a result of the environment
that exists beyond the Colonnade. Whether they realize it
or not, the administration sends the vibe that they really
could care less about the minority students. Thus, they go
through Washington and Lee feeling as though no one
will listen, no one understands, and furthermore, no one
cares.

This is why Washington and Lee has a hard time re-
cruiting minority students. Incidents such as the Idaho T-
shirt are merely a symptom of the real problems that lie
within this institution. Until Washington and Lee decides
and conveys that minorities are an asset to the community,
our beloved school will never reach its full potential.

Sincerely,

Shanntonnette L. Wade ’99

University Sportwear owner
speaks out about Idaho shirt

Dear Editor,

University Sportwear would like to publicly apologize
to the Washington and Lee community for its role in the
production of the Idaho Delegation T-shirt. To be perfectly
blunt, we were wrong.

In meetings with offended parties, it has been made
known to us that not only this shirt, but shirts we have
produced for various organizations in the past, have been
offensive. In response, we issue the following pledge:
Henceforth we will not produce any product which de-
picts or perpetuates any racial, cultural or gender based

stereotype, or demeans any racial, cultural or gender based
group. This pledge will be prominently displayed in ourh
store and serve as a constant reminder to our customers
and ourselves of this policy.

With great personal loss, I have learned a valuable les-
son from this episode which has stained the otherwise;
excellent record of minority and gender relations which my
company and I have achieved. It is our express desire that
Washington and Lee and its extended community also learn
these lessons and use this is a springboard to greater di-
versity and growth. "

Our. sincere apology respectfully submitted,

John D. Baizley

#1

Secretary of State warns stu-

dents about vacation dangers_

Dear Editor,

As the season of spring breaks and summer vacations
approaches, I ask for your assistance in alerting American
students about the risks and consequences of reckless‘
behavior while studyingor travelling abroad. '

Each year, many American students serve time in for-
eign jails or await trial in detention because they were un-
aware of the risks of using or possessing drugs while over-
seas. Many young Americans are also arrested in foreign.
lands because of inappropriate behavior associated with
heavy drinking.

The State Department’s Bureau of Consular Affairs is
responsible for the protection and welfare of U.S. citizens
being held in foreign jails, they cannot get them release .

Additional safety information can be viewed and down-
loaded from the Consular Affairs’ home page of Internet at
http://travel.state.gov.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely,

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright

Y

What is th craziest thin
you’ve ever done at a party?

“Beat up a band member.”
—~ Ivan Zdanov ‘02

‘‘I wrestled a blow-up alligator
in a kiddie pool."

~ ~ Tara Friedel ’02

“I usually don’t remember thm..”
— Josh Counts ’02

“Christie and I got into a
bottle throwing contest."
— Kate Mobley ‘02

I!’

l.
l

2

 

 

.   Ellie iﬂing-tum lﬂhi

A Wee bit 0’ Saint Paddy’s day lore

St. Patrick: The man whose saintly acts
inspire rather unsaintly celebrations

MARCH 13, 2000

Signature Student
ézoﬁn (30122/y ’01i

mission to spread God’s word
throughout that kingdom.
By the time he died, Patrick had

snakes were worshipped; hence,
Patrick, who worked on casting pa-
ganism from the island, is said to have

“Ifa story gets out, it’s only one B E - - - and would take him home. Before re- baptized tens of thousands and cast the snakes away.
' ' ' , - , allll 1 . . . . .
By Eiiarina Marziani side,” he said. “Students don t get y 11 aMarZ1an turning home, Patrick visited the fa- turned a predominantly pagan land
FEATURESEDITOR to hear some ofthe stuffthat comes FEATURESEDITOR mous French bishop, Germanus of

into one predominantly Christian. He
died in Ireland on March 17, c. 460
A.D.

Shamrock:

The Shamrock is a symbol ofthe
Trinity. Before Christianity arose in
Ireland, it was sacred to the druids

Where have you seen that name
before? Probably plastered all over
the dining hall doors and other stra-

out in hearings.” Each year when March 17 rolls
around, most ofus get visions ofrau-

cous parades, “Kiss me, I’m Irish”

Auxerre. During this visit, Patrick
deepened his love for Christ and His
Scriptures. When he ﬁnally reached

tegic places on campus. John Comly
just ﬁnished a successful race for
the presidency of the Executive
Committee. Comly served as his
c|ass’s representative to the E.C. this
year and is looking forward to his
year presiding over the Committee.

Though he is an economics ma-
jor and involved in several campus
activities including Generals Chris-
tian Fellowship, Southern Comfort,
and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon frater-
nity, he considers his work with the
E.C. a key part ofhis time at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

“lt’s been the most rewarding

  

Photo counesy of the ('0/yx

He hopes to maintain conﬁdenti-
ality, while at the same time have the
E.C. say as much as it can and be as
accountable as it can be to the stu-
dent body. He stresses that students
should talk to candidates running to

 

pins, and the one green outﬁt in our
closet.

St. Patrick’s Day is known, and cel-
ebrated loudly, throughout the coun-
try. But who exactly was the man for
whom the day was named?

Patrick was the son of a British
nobleman, rather uneducated and not
spiritual at all. He was kidnapped at
the age of 16 by Irish raiders and sold
into slavery to Miliucc, a pagan chief-
tain—king. Patrick’s job was tending
the king’s sheep. For six years he lived
on a rainy mountain, tending the
sheep. It was a lonelyjob, and before
long Patrick found himself saying the

home, his family and
friends were delighted to

and considered a
mystical number. Leg-

see him and begged him
to stay, but one night
Patrick had a vision in
which he heard the
voices of the Irish call-
ing him back to Ireland.
Patrick knew he had
to go. He started his work
as a missionary to Ireland
in 430 AD. Ireland was a
thoroughly pagan coun-
try, led by druids who
performed human and
animal sacriﬁces to local

end has it that when
Patrick gave one of
his open-air sermons,
he illustrated the Trin-
ity by plucking a
shamrock from the
grass.

Leprechaun:
Perhaps the most

greatly debated leg-
end is that ofthe lep-
rechaun. The most
widely accepted leg-

thing l’ve done at this school,” he be their representatives and ﬁnd out prayers taught to him by his grandfa- gods. end is that the lepre-
said. where they stand on issues and what ther, and soon internalizing them and Spiritism, black magic, chaun is a dwarf, per-
He thinks that getting more in- they consider honorable and dishon- forming arelationship with God. and occult rituals haps 2 feet tall, who

volved by serving as president will
be an even more rewarding experi-
ence. “I believe in the system and
really respect the school and the
system,” he said. “I thought [serv-
ing as president] would be a great
honor to do.”

Comly did not run with a platform.
“I think the duty of the E.C. presi-
dent is to reflect the current student
body’s ideas about honor,” he said.
“Myjob will be to can'y out what the
White Book Review comes up with.”

He was, however, more than will-
ing to talk about what he thinks of
the system, what changes he expects
to see, and what the system ideally
should be.

He believes that education is

orable, and then vote for the candi-
date that they believe represents
them. That is the best way for trust
in the system to be maintained.
Comly is strongly in favor of the
single-sanction honor system. “I
don’t believe honor can be measured
by grade,” he said. “Honor is mea-
sured in intent, and I believe that can
be black and white.” He says that,
while it is possible that dishonorable
people could change and become
honorable, at a small school like W&L
where the community hinges on
people’s respect for the system, the
single-sanction is crucial.

He is always happy to discuss the V

honor system with people, and he
looks forward to another great year

One night, six years after arriving
in Ireland, Patrick heard God’s voice
telling him, “Soon you will go to your
own country. See, your ship is ready.”
That night Patrick ran away. Eventu-
ally he came upon a ship setting sail

abounded. Patrick felt it
was his calling to intro-
duce all these people to
Christianity. In Tara, he

 

is a shoemaker by
trade. He is crafty and
nearly impossible to
catch. He owns a pot

had a famous face—off
with the highest druid

courtesy: wwwgeocities.com/SouthBeach/Boardwalk/2 747/graphics/stpatgraphs.htm

and begged for passage, promising
payment from his parents later. The
captain at ﬁrst refused, at which time
Patrick went off for a time of prayer
asking for God’s guidance. Soon af-
ter a sailor came up to him and told
him the captain had changed his mind

priest, a series of contests of spirits,
in which the druid priests lost, all dy-
ing or converting. For 30 years Patrick
stayed and continued converting Ire-
land, castle byecastle. Patrick met in-
dividually with the local kings, tell-
ing them about Jesus and gaining per-

Snakes:
Legend has it that Patrick drove

the snakes from Ireland. There are no
snakes in Ireland, but whether or not
that can be attributed to Patrick is de-
batable. The reason for this legend
may be that in many pagan religions

of gold, and if some-
one catches him, he
will give him his treasure. However,
a person who finds a leprechaun
must keep his eye on him, because
if he does not, the leprechaun will
get away. People try to track him
by listening for the sound of his
shoemaker’s hammer.

W&L’s Phi Beta Kappa to induct 52

 

  

      

    

 

   

' ' ' k’ th l'b I rtadsci ces. - _
very important in making the honor with the E.C. By Ehanna Marzlanl WOIQBIE 6 [beta a S n “eh th New Inductees, elected January  .
_ _ FEATURESEDITOR mem ers are genera y in e
system work. “We’re really going to Q: What are your plans for this \ top tenth percentile of their graduat_
push education,” he Said: Summer? _ The Washington and Lee Univer— ing class. Most inductees are under— From the Class of2000 From the Class of200l
Next year there will be a new . A: “Probably working ata ﬁnan- my Gamma Chapter of phi Beta 1 graduates, but some
White 300k, according i0 the new Ciai 5ei'ViCes e0mP3n}’» Possibiv aiso Kappa will induct 52 new members chapters, including Brittany Anne Ahlstrom Joshua Donald Chamberlain
. System as deciated attet the i999’ working ash camp ieadet totaweek’ on Ttuesday. Four of the new in- W&L’s, also occasion— Shannon Elizabeth Bell William David Christ
it Zooo White Book Review is eothpiete for it group iike Yotihg Life” ductees will be from the graduated A ally induct graduates. Rachel Leanne Bowes Katherine Derbes Eagan

Man)’ studehts vviii be reiieved to Q3 what do you Pia” oh doing Class of 1999,28 from this year’s ‘- _ Interestingly, the cer- Erin Ashley Buck Dana Marie Early

i<h0W that the EC Wiii be making 3 after graduation? senior class and 20 from the junior E"-."‘e' emony at Lee Chapel will Kristen Elizabeth Burr Joel Patrick Fechisin

new Vide0 aiS0- C0mi}’ h0PeS t0 A3 “Maybe going to iaw sehooi- class.  I not be the actual induc- Joshua Eben Carpenter Emily Thomas Fonnan

.- have 3" open forum at the begin‘ iirh diso ihterested ih ousihess-it Founded in 1776 at the College  tion ofthenew PBK mem- Lance Vernon Clack Jordan Samuel Ginsberg
hing 0rneXt)’ear to exbiaihthe honor Q3 when You were iittiev vvhatdtd of William and Mary, Phi Beta 2 V bers. According to PBK Edward Cantey Clarkson Susan Ellen Groves
system in detaii T0 Snidenis~ You Want t0 be Wheh You grew up? Kappa is the oldest and most pres- 5 regulations, the induc- David Jason Damiani Anne Cummins Hazlett
“i think that 3 ibr ofthe mistrust A5 “A tiremah ahd ii trash their tigious honor society in the United 1 tion must be a more se- Sean Craig Eddy Raquelle Alicia Headley
ebmes from Peobie being uhiii' Ridihg oh the outside or 3 iriovihg States. PBK recognizes academic cretive service open only Hayley King Hall Nathan Rollins Hoot
/1 formed,” Comly said. truck just seemed pretty neat to U10” achievement and scholarship, and to new and old PBK mem- Christopher Edward Hatzis Rachel Alaina Perdue
One or the toughest Parts or the Q3 What was 3 favorite itaiiovv‘ promotes the liberal arts education. bers. In the evening, a Warren Eliot Hedges Angela Christine Roman
honor system is the requirement for Cell Costume? Chapters of PBK select students C°"”e5'V “'ww'i’bk'°tg closed ceremony will Amy Cathryn Kane Kimberly Ann Russell
e°iitidehti3iitY- white Comiv sav s A5 “One year i was A'C- oiater with an outstanding academic record take place in which each inductee will Kirsten Rae Malm Nicholas Robert Ryan-Lang
thatconﬁdentiaiity is an absoiute he‘ from “Saved by the Beii-it i did the to become members, who have dem— be given his certiﬁcate and key, will be Stephanie Ann McKnight Kathie Soroka
Y Cessiiy i0 get some Witnesses t0 haiithings tight roiiiiig biaei‘ Jearisa onstrated some knowledge in math taught the society’s secret handshake, David Jason Miller Gina Lynn Spezialetti
speak and hence make the system the big White tennis shoes” and foreign languages and have done and will sign the membership book. Matthew Thomas Mills _ Jennifer Ruth Strawbridge
W0Ti<» ii aiso Peses Pmbiems He has ebme 3 ioiig W3)“ three-fourths of their undergraduate The Lee Chapel ceremony, how- Matthew Paul Neumayer Nathan Kyle Urquhart
ever, allows the new inductees to be Nancy LeAnne Reinhart Patrick Beaumont Wright
in’ _ , g _ _ _ publicly recognized. Classes will be Timothy Norman Showalter
i i  ' V ’  i , adjusted on Tuesday so that students Ashley Elizabeth Shreves
  o o .. 4.0.0 . . ..  . ..(W) W&L .:L shb V and faculty will be able to go to the Susan Neisler Smith From theGraduat€d C1355 0f1999

V ‘ I - .;.  .  '  ’ " "VV ' , ’ ' I  5 P-"L erosse ' vs‘ Y1“? urg-- . _ convocation to congratulate these Susan Erica Terzian

V_  ‘ VV . 1 VV » , 3 V I V Ltbettyﬂaiiﬁeld‘ , I ' A outstanding members of the Washing- Amanda Lauren Thayer Heather Marie Bradley

X 4:30 p‘m‘ Lecture‘ R‘w' Apple ‘it’ chiefchp ton and Lee community. The ceremony Meredith Lynn Welch Aaron Louis Habefmah
respondent for 771_eNew York Times’ will take place at Lee Chapel at 12:15 Mary Elizabeth Winfrey Leah Edwards R0binS0n
. Nottiieii Auditorium‘ , e R . p.m. . Courtney Catherine Yevich Courtney Breckenridge Stovall
4:30 p.m. Glasgow Endowment Series Read- p
. ing. Poet F leda Brown. duPont Au- /
*— d.,,,,um_ A   WRITE FOR THE PHI! W know W W M WRITE FOR ;:HE£H1.’
  WRITE FOR THE PHI! W RITE FOR HE HI-
Thursday, March 16 . -
7:30 .m. Contact Lecture. “The Future of
t P Pl't' D‘kM “h‘f lit‘ 1'
oi ics,” ic orris, 0 ie po ica
V strategist for President Clinton. - it
  1.14  ,   THIS YEARALOT or COLLEGE
T”““°Y'M°'"°   are ~ ~ GRADUATING
K. All Day 0 Adjusted classschedule for Phi Beta eioo Wit’ t’e°tu_re~ gapaness Society iii :    
 2 I ‘ Kappa Convocation. ,  1.‘ Ttaiisitiotiﬁ Dorothy R°biii,s’M°wr-v’  
 . . A rm r 10 ore I
 A 800 a‘m._8'45 am. fo e sen r.f ign service officer
E: B 3:50 a.m.-9:35 a.m. Nmiien A“<i“°n“m- ,
:1} c 9:40a.Vm.-10:25 am. _ _ Under the Army s
nfa in 10:30a.m.V- 11:15 am. - Friday, March 17 Loan Repayment ~
 E 11:20 a.m.-12:05pm. 3:00 p.m. Tennis (M). W&L vs. Guilford program, you could get
Convocation. 12:l5‘p.m.‘- 1:45 pm. College. Varsity Courts._ _ out from under with a
* F 1:50 p.m.-2:35 pm. 7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Tango” (Spain/Ar- threeyear enlistment
A G 2:40 pm. -3:25 pm, gentina, 1998), Troubadour Cinema Each year you serve
H 3330 P3174315 Pm? on active du reduces
i  Sdtt-ir'ddY« Mdheti to your indebtedness by one-
. . . J 5- OP,-m-" - _ P-In _ 9:00 am. Tennis (M). W&L vs. Eastern third 01.31500, which
12:15 p.m Phi Beta Kappa Convocation. Gail Mennonite. Varsity Courts, r mount is water
It I I M°Mw1“dYGii’S°na Wiiiiainnidmanir-» 2:00 p.m. Tennis (M). W&L vs. Virginia . . eve a g ’
. Davidson College. use Chapel. Wesleyan Varsity com, up to a $65,000 11m1_t. ,
I. 3,00 pm, Basebaii, w&L vs, Mary Washington. The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
‘ 1 SmithField. I », 4 , , V d M h 19 and certain other federally insured loans, which are not
A. . ,Sun ay, arc . .
8:00 p.m. Spring Choral Concert. Keller Theatre, . . &L V. . . In default it,  I ;
,4 _ V fest Center g i 9.00 am. Tennis (W). W vs. irginia _ , , f h b ft V .  1  ., g,  , § , V ,
, _ . Le“ ., . - .  Wesleym Varsity Courts, And debt reliefisjust one o t e many ene i s , , » I I  , , _._ .
t . V I V ‘V C ‘V 12:00 p.m. Baseball. W&L vs. West Virginia you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter. °
Wednesday, MGP‘Ci\-  ' ‘ L g _ Tech. Smith Field. (doubleheader) (5 ) 8 8 6 Z 65 1   
Ar 3:00 pm. Lacrosse (M). W&L -vs. Dickinson. 1:00 p.m. Tennis (W). W&L vs. Mary Wash- _ ® .
A , Wilson Field. ington. Varsity Courts. V      BE_ 1 1_8 0 O _ 2  u n l
www.goarmy.com ! W T

 

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 iﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

PORT

MARCH 13, 2000

Men’s lax falls to Gettysbur

The Generals held the fourth-
ranked Bullets to only six
goals but could not capitalize
on scoring opportunities

By Brendan Harrington
STAFF WRITER

In lacrosse, like most other sports, the team that
makes the fewest mistakes usually wins the game.

‘ Yesterday afternoon at Wilson Field, fourth-ranked
Gettysburg made fewer mistakes and downed second-
ranked Washington and Lee 6-4 in an all-out defen-
sive war.

The Bullets netted the game-winning goal with 13:56
l_eft in the fourth quarter when attackman Ric Bremer
scored off an Adam Aiello assist to give Gettysburg a
5-4 lead.

Gettysburg played keep-away for the rest of the
game and midﬁelder Tommy Pearce scored on an empty
net with 46 seconds left to put the game away.

“We just didn’t shoot the ball well today and we
made some costly mistakes,” W&L head coach Jim
Stagnitta said following the game. “We learned a valu-
able lesson today. You can’t make mistakes against a
good team and expect to win.”

Before yesterday’s 6-4 loss, Washington and Lee
had won 54 straight games when holding their oppo-
nents to eight goals or less. The streak dates back to
1993, when W&L lost to Ohio Wesleyan in the
quarterfinals ofthe NCAA tournament.

Bullets goalie Andrew Barter, considered by many
to be the best goalie in Division 111, made nine saves
and shut down the Generals. W&L junior goalie Wes
Hays, however, playedjust as good if not better than
Barter, making 12 saves and keeping the Generals in
the game. 1

“Barter is a great player, but we have to shoot bet-
ter,” Stagnitta said. “Wes Hays played a great game.
It was two athletic teams going at it today, and wejust
made too many mistakes.”

One ofthose mistakes took place when Gettysburg
scored the game-winning goal.

Junior midfielder Pope Hackney accidentally came
off the field, thinking that he was being substituted
-for. But there was no substitution, and Gettysburg
9 took advantage ofthe mistake, scoring a goal with the

extra man.

Another key mistake took place in the third quarter
whenjunior defenseman Pete Iwancio turned the ball

g in defensive showdown

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

TRYING TO HOLD THEM OFF: Junior goalie Wes Hayes looks to clear the ball in Sunday’s match up against Gettysburg as sophomore EricKontargyris
and junior Greg Meyers manage surrounding Bullets. The Generals dropped the contest to the fourth-ranked Bullets, 6-4. W&L has not lost a

game where their opponents were held under eight goals since 1993.

over in his own zonejust after the Generals had killed
off a penalty. Bullets attackman Ross Garretson took
advantage of the turnover and scored an unassisted
goal to give Gettysburg a 4-3 lead.

The Generals also missed a number of opportuni-
ties on the offensive end.

“We had a number of opportunites right on the door
step but we just didn’t finish,” Stagnitta said.

The Generals went 0-4 on the extra-man attack, while
the Bullets went 1-4. W&L has scored on only 32 per-
cent of their extra-man opportunities so far this year,

Mos’tW&L students

usealcohol

Based on wet con: survey
data irom 1998,1999

Funded llll a grant trom

  VILABC

llirgi _ia Ilenartment or
Alﬂﬂllllllc Beverage c0Ill|’0l

and the lack of extra-man offense hurt the Generals
against the Bullets.

“I thought we generated good scoring opportuni-
ties when we had the extra man,” Stagnitta said.
“Again, it gets back to being able to finish, and today
we didn’t finish.”

The Generals scored the first goal ofthe game and
took a 1-0 lead when sophomore midfielder Andrew
Barnett scored off an assist from senior Colin
Dougherty with 8:50 left in the first quarter.

But Gettysburg tied the game less than a minute
later on an unassisted goal by Mark Pollack.

Junior attackman Matt Dugan scored two second quar-
ter goals for W&L, and Wes Cadman and Pearce added

goals for Gettysburg to make the score 3-3 at the half.

Garretson took advantage of lwancio’s mistake to
give Gettysburg a 4-3 lead with 9:55 left in the third
quarter. The Generals tied the game 4-4 as time expired
in the third quarter.

The Bullets outshot the Generals 24-23 while W&L
won the battle ofthe ground balls, 43-40. The Gener-
als completed 11 of 20 clears while the Bullets com-
pleted 12 of21 clears.

The Generals are back in action on Wednesday af-
ternoon at Wilson Field against Dickinson.

“We just have to learn from this game,” Stagnitta
said. “lt’s a long season, there’s plenty of games left
to play.”

like this today.

TIAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by
combining two disciplined investment strategies.

in our equity accounts, for example, we combine
active management with enhanced indexing.With two
strategies, we have two ways to seek out
performance opportunities—helping to make your

investments work twice as hard.

EXpEN5E RATIO Combine this with our low
Cmﬁwm mwsm expenses and you'll see how
EQUIIIES AVERAGE

TlAA-CREF stands apart from

0.37"’ 1.92“

the competition.

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.”

2000 TIAA-(REF 1/00.

While TIAA-[REF
invests for the long term,
it's nice to see performance

 

[REF GLOBAL EUUITI 5 AEET.“

35.05% 22.02"’" 18.7 5''’'’

1 YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE lNCEPTlON
AS OF 12/31/99 AS OF 12/31/99 5/1/92

With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest
retirement company and the leading choice on
America's campuses. If that sounds good to
you, consider this number 1 800-842-2776. Call and ﬁnd
out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today

and tomorrow.

18111] 842-2775

www.tiaa-tref.org

 

t.The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you
have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are sub'e<t to additional risks from changing
currency values, interest rates, government regulations. and political and economic conditions. 2.TIAA-CHEF expenses are subject to change an are not guaranteed tor the future 3
Source: Morningstar, lnc. 12/31/99,tracking 279 world stock mutual lunds.TIAA-CHEF individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the ‘HAA Real
Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual lunds and tuition savings agreementsTlAA and TlAA{REF
Life Insurance Co issue insurance and annu'rties.TIAA{REF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.Inve.stmem ,
antnod. For more complete information on CREF. including charges and expenses,cal| l 800 842-2776,ext. 5509,lor the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send money.O

‘ an not FDIC Insured, may lose value and outlet banlr gugp

 

 

‘   SP“‘o“‘““ﬁ*?i“s

. MARCH 13,2000 pAG,7 ‘1

Women’s lax
falls to R-MC

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s lacrosse team could
not overcome an early onslaught by the Yellow Jacket
of Randolph-Macon Saturday. »

The Generals traveled to Ashland to take on the con-
ference power and were sent home with a 13-8 loss.
That first loss ofthe season brings the General’s over-
all record to 2-1, and their ODAC record to l- 1.

The Yellow Jackets wasted no time getting started
and the Generals could not ﬁnd their rhythm in the ﬁrst
half. R-MC led the Generals 5-1 at the half. The contest
was more evenly matched up after the intermission as
the Yellow Jackets only outscored the Generals by one
goal.

R-MC outshot W&L 33-21, and Generals’ senior goal
keeper Ginny Jernigan came up with 13 saves.

R-MC was paced by the outstanding performance of
conference stand—out Carrie Winkler. She scored four
ofthe Yellow Jackets’ ﬁve ﬁrst-half goals on her way to
a seven goal day.

Senior Katherine Riddle, freshman Laura Wilson, and
sophomore Emily Owens led the Generals in scoring
with two goals apiece. Sophomores Courtenay Fisher
and Julie Carskadon each came up with one goal on the
day.

Sophomore defender Eloise Priest, back on defense
after a stint at attack last season, said that the Gener-
als’ nerves kept them from playing as hard as they could
on Saturday.

“We played a little scared and timid. When wego
into a game with conﬁdence and play like we all know
we can, we can win and beat everybody,” she said.

Priest did say that the transition this season minus
several key players from last year’s squad had been a
smooth one and she was hard—pressed to identify any
one area ofthe game where the Generals would be lack-
ing this season.

The Generals hope to bounce back from this ODAC
loss with a win against-Lynchburg on Wednesday. Game
time is set for 4:00 p.m.

Write Phi sports.

Email phi@w1u.edu.

 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

LEADING THE WAY: Freshman Kelly Schlicter claims the win in the 1500-meter
run during Saturday’s Washington and Lee Track and Field Invitational.

Baseball dishes it

out and takes it, too

By Mike Weil
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team handed Villa Julie a 15-8 pound-
ing on Wednesday before being
swept in a double header yesterday
against Guilford.

The Generals jumped on Villa Julie
early on Wednesday, scoring four runs
in the bottom of the ﬁrst. The Mus-
tang pitcher only retired one batter
before being pulled.

W&L notched its largest lead of
the game in the sixth inning at 12-3,
allowing them to coast to victory.

Freshman right-hander Michael
Hanson hurled six quality innings to
increase his season record to 3-1.

Freshman leftfielder Bobby
Littlehale went 4-for-5 on the day and
tallied three runs.

Senior shortstop David Hanson
went 3-for-5 with three RBIs, and class-
mate Schuyler Marshall notched two
hits, while driving in two runs and scor-
ing two as well.

The Generals did not experience
this same success Sunday however,"
getting blown away 7-3 and 12-0 by.
Guilford at the new Smith Field.

Sophomore catcher Todd Gosselink
and freshman DH Brian Gladyz led the
Generals, each going 2-for-3 in the first
game.

The Generals produced no high-
lights in second game, falling behind
4-0 in the bottom of the first and com-
ing up with only two hits for the game.
Senior Chris Stakem took the loss for
W&L. .

“Their pitching was a lot better than
1 expected,” said David Hanson. “We
didn’t put any pressure on them of-
fensively.”

The Generals now fall to 7-8 over-‘
all, and 0-4 in the ODAC.

“We obviously are in a hole, but
baseball’s a wierd sport.” Hanson said.
“We just need to get hot, get a streak
going. We can still make a run at it.”

W&L returns to action Tuesday
with a 3 p.m. contest against non-con-
ference foe, Mary Washington.

Women’s track has

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

Saturday, the men’s and women’s
outdoor hosted the W&L Track and
Field Invitational. The invitational was
the ﬁrst and last home contest of the
season for both squads.

The women came out on top of their
ﬁeld of eight teams, and the men fin-
ished fourth of nine teams.

The women claimed victories in a va-
riety of of events on Saturday. Senior
Jill Kosch took home the titles in both

perfect home record

the 200-meter and 400-meter dashes.

Freshman Burke Duncan blew out
the competition in the 3,000-meter run
and her classmate Kelly Schlicter won
the 1,500-meter run.

Senior Amy Calce won the long jump
and sophomore Sarah Schmidt sur-
passed the ﬁeld in the javelin.

The men’s sprints remained strong
on Saturday. Junior Marc Watson won
the 100-meter dash in 1 1 .02 seconds and
the 4x 1 00 relay team took second .

W&L travels to the Roanoke Col-
lege Invitational on Saturday.

Buy an ice cold can of

Coca-Cola" classic

from specially marked

on-campus vending

machines and you

could win an exclusive

Universal Music CD.

Offer ends

March 3l, 2000.

Look for more Universal

Studios experiences

this summer!

UNlVERSAL M USIC

Special Markets

‘ \
\

I

G

viii
.0

i

u
2
‘V
‘(I

$33:



_— ;.<(...»,».w§w.§,.o:v%_m*«&

v§"~4,»4.q9»¢<-"\‘°"‘ ;,,,,/,,..v.,... ¢~ '-

redit Suisse First Boston.



:iFR'

Source

“Bank of the Last 25 Years" as awarded by International Financing
Review, the jou nal of record of the international capital markets.

wvvw csfb.com

CREDIT FIRST
UISSE BOSTON

v
CW '2.

. .
€ 372*. 7.55

\/-M9,.
i"».>.../“4,

ifttng-tum {H11 t 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsrrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

-. MES G. l..i1”\’8l..iRN IJBRAFTY
W:'~:.::i'-5lI‘«lE§%TON. 3: LEE LJNJVHQHY

mimorm, wt  —-

iv, - 4‘ ~. 
‘ 9
J

,,VOLUME 102, NO. 24

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2000

Morris offers
insights on

2000 election

Siezes Watts idea, tells W&L:
I’m going to make you famous

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee provided political adviser, FOX
News panelist and columnist Dick Morris with a new idea
Wednesday.

While discussing potential GOP vice-presidential nomi-
nees, several students suggested Oklahoma Rep. J .C.
Watts as a candidate, after his electrifying speech at this
year’s Republican Mock Convention. Morris loved the
idea.

“This country is dying for minority leadership, espe-
cially in the GOP,” he said. “I’m going to make Washing-
ton and Lee world-famous.” Morris will suggest Watts as
a potential vice-presidential candidate in his New York
Post column, and mention W&L as the genesis of the
idea. If Bush reads the article and likes the idea, Morris
said W&L might start something.

Morris, the campaign advisor credited with Clinton’s
1996 presidential victory, spoke in Lee Chapel Thursday
night. Morris touched on a variety of political topics, from
the 2000 election to the future of politics, in a free-ﬂowing
and engaging speech.

Morris thinks the 2000 presidential election will be in-
consequential since both candidates have essentially the
same views. Besides, Morris added, Congress will be po-
litically split between parties and will negate any of the
president’s measures anyway.

Morris believes Gore could win by running on the en-
vironment, one of the few issues where the public sup-
ports him over Bush. In most other issues, the candidates
are essentially tied in public support. Morris said he ad-
vised Clinton to make education an issue in 1996, which
turned into a huge boost for the President.

“You have to take the issue in which you have an ad-
vantage with the people and make it an even bigger is-
sue,” Morris said.

Morris believes Bush can win if he sticks with his vi-
sion, an idealogical campaign of “compassionate conser-
vatism,” instead of tossing mud around with Gore on po-
litical speciﬁcs, where Gore excels.

Morris believes Gore will pick a VP “just like him” be-
cause Gore thinks he did such a good job in that post.
Sen. Evan Bayh of Indiana is Morris’ pick for Gore.

Bush will probably pick McCain out of political neces-
sity to win, Morris said, even though McCain said he
doesn’t want the postition. Gen. Colin Powell would pro-

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

THE NEW ‘TRICKY DICK’? Former Clinton campaign advisor Dick Morris discusses the future of politics
and the 2000 campaign Thursday night. Contact members Dustin Olsen and Elizabeth Harvey look on.

vide Bush with a big push. Morris doubts Bush will pick
Elizabeth Dole because ofher ties with Bob Dole.
“Bush would go to bed with Liddy and wake up with Bob,’
Morris said. *
Morris ended his Q&A session by describing the time
Clinton came to him for advice on the Lewinsky affair. Mor-
ris, who ran into his Own sexual troubles when he was caught

sucking the toes of a prostitute, said he immediately empa-

thized with Clinton.

“I told him ‘You poor SOB, I know exactly what you’re
going through,” Morris said. “To which Clinton responded,
‘Ever since the election, I’ve had to shut down my body sexu-
ally.’ Think about that folks, the man is married.”

Looking to the future, Morris believes the Internet will
return political control to the people. He believes the public
will vote on every major political issue through the Internet.

Their votes will be politically binding for politicians. Cam-
paign ﬁnance will be unnecessary as well, since the
Internet will replace the need for television advertising.
Instead, web surfers will’ be drawn into politicians’ sites
according to their stance on issues.

Contact chair Elizabeth Harvey thinks the committee
deﬁnitely got a lot out of Morris’ $5,000 fee. He even ﬂew
coach.

“I’m really excited so many people came and they
weren’t disappointed,” Harvey said. “There was so much
Q&A it was virtually a talk show. He was the most dy-
namic and entertaining speaker we’ve had yet this year.”

Freshman Matt Dougherty was impressed as well.

“He was more entertaining than I thought he’d be,”
Dougherty said. “A more ‘off-the-cuff’ speaker than I ex-
pected.”

Idaho hits
state news

Regional media pick
up on W&L melee,
question reputation

,EC/SJC elections closely contested

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

>( Some heated Executive Committee and Student Judicial

‘f

Council elections came to an end this week. 21 students vied
for 12 EC and SJC positions, prompting run-offs in every cat-
egory but the 2003 class representative for SJ C, won by
Kempton Presley.

The high number of candidates came as no surprise to Emily
Ramey, chair ofthe Voter Regulations Board.

“We worked hard to increase the number of people who ran
for EC and SJC positions,” Ramey said. The Board increased

by campus awareness through the number of campus notices, signs

and word of mouth.

The result was a tight race in almost every category.

- “Because every race was so close, we counted everything
twice,” Ramey said.

New 2001 EC Representative Anna Baker had never run for
office at W&L before last week. Baker decided to run when no
other women were set to run. She also saw an opportunity to
change the way the EC operated.

it “I plan on re-evaluating the true purpose of the Honor Code

Or

by focusing not on whether a student could see that test six
desks away, but if they had that intent,” Baker said. “I want to

get to the true feeling behind the action, not whether or not it .

could have occurred.”

Baker thinks that her sex played a factor in her election.

“Being a female had a lot to do with my election,” Baker
said. “People thought it might be an all-male committee and
they wanted to even out the odds.”

W&LIFE:

The Big Five winners:
EC president —— John Comly ’01

SJ C chair-- Jordan Ginsberg ’01
SJC secretary —— Juliet Berry ’O1

SJ C — Jason Ward
SJ C —— Melissa Palombo

SJ C — Kempton Presley

THE ENVELOPE PLEASE. . .

EC vice president — Rob Naﬁel ’O2
EC secretary —— Carling Dinkler ’O2

Representatives for the classes of. . .
2001 : EC — Anna Baker & Tyler J orgensen

2002: EC —— Liz Nacozy & Marshall Schutt

2003: EC —— Catie Caldwell & Will Coffrnan

C-‘I112 iliiltg-111111  March 20,2000

OPINION: SPORTS:

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

The Idaho Mock Convention T-shirts
and the controversy surrounding them
has gone statewide.

On Sat, March 1 1, The Roanoke Times
ran a story on the T-shirt in their Virginia
section. The story has also been cov-
ered in The Daily News Leader of
Staunton and The Daily Progress of
Charlottesville.

The Times article points out that even
though very few shirts were printed, and
almost no one has seen them, the con-
troversy has “managed to offend every
minority and gender-based organization
on campus as well as the whole faculty.”

The article went on to point out the
T-shirt doesn’t help W&L project its de-
sired minority-friendly image.

“At a time when W&L is working to
address minority students’ concerns and
its reputation as a place where the Old
South is still revered, the shirt and its
creators triggered a landslide of resent-
ment.”

The T-shirt features a caricature of a
busty black woman in a skimpy red dress
and high—heeled boots over the phrase
‘‘I DA HO.”

University Spokesman Brian Shaw told
The Times, “I regret that an incident like
this caused us to have this conversation.
On the other hand, it’s a conversation
we need to have.”

Assistant Dean of Students Dean Penn
told The Times that the wholeincident re-
ﬂects a larger problem on campus.

“The ‘I DA HO’ T-shirt is only a symp-
tom of a larger need to better educate the
community to respect others,” Penn said.

University President John Elrod re-
sponded to the whole affair in a letter this
week.

“The Idaho T-shirt incident. . . contra-
dicts what this University stands for and
never should have occured or. this cam-
pus,” Elrod wrote. “We can and must do
better. Life on this campus should not be
a burden for any student.”

One Acts highlight
student run productions

PAGE 3

Idaho, Idaho,
we got Idaho

PAGE 4

Baseball grabs their first
ODAC victory

, ' photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
RIDE M CowBOY.: Freshman Zach Fake could be seen all last week

around campus dressed for the closing days of pledgeship.

PAGES 5

 

MARCH 20, 2000

.9‘

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
HE’s READING YOUR MIND: Entertainer Craig Karges made his second W&L appearance Friday
night to an excellent turnout, and a receptive audience. He is shown herd guessing a person’s
identity from their dog’s first name and their mother’s maiden name. .

KAPPA DELTA SHAMROCK PROJECT

SUNDAY, MARCH 26TH
BENEFITS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE
AND PROJECT HORIZON

3 ON 3
BASKETBALL
TOURNAMENT!
CASH PRIZES
OFFERED!

SIGN-UPS IN FRONT OF
THE CO—OP DURING
THE DAY, AND AT D-

HALL DURING DINNER

TIL MARCH 22ND

Most L students Lave

Basetl on wet eon: Survev
data from 1998,1999

Funded Irv a grant from

I so

Virginia Ilenartment of
Alcoholic Beverage control

 

E-mail General Notes to 
" wlu.edu "

 

Technology exam offered

How can you stand out among the liberal arts gradu-
ates seeking internships and jobs in Information Age? One
way is to take Tek.Xam, an examination designed by ex-
perts in business and higher education. The examination
will be offered free of charge at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity from 5-10 p.m. on Tuesday, April, 18.

Tek.XaIn is an information technology certiﬁcation exam
that tests and certiﬁes liberal arts students on computer
literacy and information technology skills desired by em-
ployers. These skills include the operation of technology;
retrieving, interpreting, and presenting information; and
legal and ethical issues in the use of technology. Created
by the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges (V FIC)
and recognized by a growing list of prominent employers,
the Tek.XaIn credential provides a way for college stu-
dents to demonstrate their mastery of technology applica-
tions and problem-solving tools. The Tek.Xam credential
is awarded to those who attain a passing score in each of

. the skill areas of the on-line test.

W&L students can register for the April 18 test by e-
mailing Earl Edwards (ete@wlu.edu) with the following in-
formation: name, local address, phone number, e-mail ad-
dress, major ﬁeld of study, expected date of graduation. A
limited number of seats are available for the test. The dead-
line for registration is 4:30 p.m. Friday, April 7.

For more information about Tek.XaIn visit the following
web sites: www.wlu.edu/computing/students/tekxam.htInl

“Being John Malkovich” in Lex

The Washington and Lee Film society will conclude its
Winter schedule with the very unusual and very success-
ﬁll “Being John Malkovich” (USA, 1999), directed by Spike
Jonze.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
March 24,and 25, in the Troubadour Cinema. As always,
there is no charge for admission, although contributions
are welcome. This film is in English, and is rated “R” by the
Motion Picture Association of America.

“Being John Malkovich” is undoubtedly one of the most
original, creative and richly entertaining ﬁhns in recent
years. An eccentric street puppeteer (John Cusack) dis-
covers a portal that leads directly into the head of actor
John Malkovich (played by John Malkovich). This out-
landish premise is only the beginning —— the ﬁlm contin-
ues to wittily astonish and surprise.

Critic Roger Ebert writes than “every once in a long,
long while a movie comes along that is like no othera movie
that creates a new world for us and uses it to produce
wonderful things.” This film is nominated for three Acad-
emy Awards, including Best Director and Best Original
Screenplay, with the awards to be announced Monday
evening. ., ,  r. ..

W&L holds national theater program

Washington and Lee University will hold the fourth Na-
tional Symposium on Theater in Academe from Thursday,
March 23 through Saturday, March 25. The program brings ,t
together scholars from colleges and universities across the
country who use theater as a means of teaching.

Domnica Radulescu, associate professor of romance lan-
guages at W&L, is the director and organizer of the event
and says that it often brings together “theater fanatics try- ‘
ing to bridge the gap between education and theater.”

Radulescu has been using theater as a way of enhanc-
ing her teaching for a number of years and began talking to
colleagues at other institutions who were doing the same.
She gathered them together on the W&L campus for the l‘
fnst time in 1995.

For more information, contact Radulescu at 463-8030.

Zen.Priest to give demonstration is

Noted Zen priest Fukushima Keido, head of one of
Japan’s leading Zen temples, will visit Washington and
Lee on Tuesday, March 28. He will speak at 4 p.m. in the
auditorium of duPont Hall, in a visit sponsored by the East‘
Asian Studies Program at W&L. ‘ '

Fukushima is the chief abbot of Tofukuji, a temple in
Kyoto, Japan that is the main temple of one particular
branch of Zen Buddhism. He is regarded as a master of
Zen, and his wisdom and guidance are therefore soughtv
out by many practitioners of Zen in Japan. Among his
activities is an annual trip to several centers in the United
States, and, aﬁer an initial visit in 1996, this year he returns
to Lexington.

His lecture will include comments about Zen Buddhism,‘
and will conclude with a demonstration of Japanese callig-
raphy. Calligraphy in the context of Zen is often noted for
its bold display of swiftly executed, abbreviated brush-
work in monochrome ink. Calligraphy is used in Zen Bud-1
dhism usually to brush a relevant word or phrase on a
vertical hanging scroll that will be hung in a room used for
meditation in the temple.

USSO to perform Moussorgsky

Critics and audiences alike are consistent in their praise
for Thomas Pandolﬁ’s dramatic, yet sensitive style of pi-
ano playing. “A pianist who will clearly bear watching,”
declares The Washington Post. “An artist who is the mas-V
ter of both the grand gesture and the sensual line.”

Pandolﬁ will join the 75-member Washington and Lee
University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra on Saturday,
March 25 at 8 p.m. in a performance of Edvard Grieg’s popu-Y
lar Piano Concerto in A minor at the Lenfest Center.

Moussorgsky’s ground-breaking piano masterpiece,
Pictures at an Exhibition, inspired by the creations of his
friend Victor Hartmann, an artist and architect, consists of
10 miniature masterpieces. 1

Barry Kolman, associate professor of music, conducts
the University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra, which
is free to the public. An exhibition of original student art
works, sponsored by the Art Department, will be presented
in the lobby of the Lenfest,Center. 

P
‘ l

like this today.

TIAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by
combining two disciplined investment strategies.

In our equity accounts, for example, we combine
active management with enhanced indexing. With two
strategies, we have two ways to seek out

performance opportunities—he|ping to make your

investments work twice as hard.

EXPENSE RATIO Combine this with our low
mmwm mousm expenses and you'll see how
EQUIJIES AVERAGE

TIAA-CREF stands apart from

o.37“ 1.92“

the competition.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.""'

Life Insurance Coissue insurance and annui1ies.11AA-CREF Trust Company, FSB ,
2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00.

While TIAA-[REF I
invests for the long term,
it's nice to see performance

   

r
  INSUFIANEE MUTUALFUNDS THUSTSEBVIEES  

7‘

 

1!
35 05'” 22 02% 18 75””
. . .1‘, 1
ASC)1F\iE2/Dill/99 rsérlriifrrss '°"”°Es'r”r‘5§a""°"
With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest
retirement company and the leading choice on M
America's campuses. If that sounds good to
you, consider this number I 800-342-2775. Call and find
out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today i
and tomorrow.
wt
1800 842-2775   r

www.tiaa-tref.org

‘l.The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return.These returns and the value of the principal you

have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are sub‘ect to additional risks from changing V
currency values, interest rates, government regulations, and political and economic conditions. 2. YIAA-CREF expenses are sub’

Source: Morningstar, Inc. 12/31/99,tracking 279 world stock mutual funds.‘nAA{REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes CREF certiﬁcates and interests in the TIM Real
Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.TIAA and TIAA{REF
, ides trust services. Investment
untied. For more complete Information on CREF, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2776,ext. 5509, for the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send rnoney_o

ect to change an are not guaranteed for the future. 3.

products am not FDIC Insured. may lose value and are not bank guar-

 

 

I
E

i

i

x.
Y yl
I l /9 ﬁatwaexd 79”‘/few/Q’
 9" TTR6¢- kﬁe “J @990 
\
m3‘\\l:E\T\—\*&@ WM W9?"
(Oz
r \a ‘.
V 3

‘ MARCH 20, 2000

Just for a little variety this week, we here at The Phi
thought that we would try to include something on this

£ " page that does not have to do with Idaho. So, we thought,

what else has been going on here in our little world? Surely
there must be something beyond the boundaries of Idaho?
And then the answer came. It came early last Tuesday
morning when the entire University was forced to awaken
just a little earlier than usual.
The Phi Beta Kappa convention.
Why on earth must the collective W&L schedule shift
various times each year in order to accommodate a select
‘( bunch" of students (read: the Nerd Herd). It’s like our staff
autonomously declaring that every Monday classes will
not be held before 3 p.m., because of the sleep this lovely
publication deprives us of every Sunday evening.
_ _ In fact, that’s not a bad damn idea. We’ll get back to
‘ you on that one.

OPINION
W&L must return to
honor, civility and respect

 Staff Editorial

As far as Phi Beta Kappa, ODK, and all the other little
we-need-more-Greek-letters-associated-with-our-Roman-
nurneraled-names associations who continually don’t in-
vite us to join, we have a simple suggestion: if your grades
are so wonderﬁil that you got in in the first place, chances
are you can afford to miss a class or two.

Nobody else goes to your little convention, nobody
cares what fascinating (read: not fascinating) speaker they
got this year to speak on the scintillating (read: self-con-
gratulatory) virtue of being academically superior to the
rest of the Free World. You do. Therefore, we’ 11 just write
you a hall pass, and you can go without fear of detention.

' We’re not going until we get the little engraved invita-
tions and keys and whatever other fun paraphernalia y’all
get.

Besides, we obviously need every second we can get in
the classroom.

‘ ‘ I00.‘
I” POL - ' \

 

lVAHo

 
  

tuote of the week:
{I

He is about as cool as
I gonorrhea on a hot July day

Jr —— Random guy at the Palm’s

2}

Please submit Letters
to the Editor to The
Ring-tum Phi

Drop off in the University Center room 208

(‘Litre ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Polly Doig

Michael Crittenden
Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

LETTER To THE EDITOR

Students should not be asked
to “get over” Idaho T-shirt

Dear Editor,

I have officially reached my boiling point! Recently the
minority and women students of Washington & Lee Univer-
sity were violated by the production of a hoirendously of-
fensive shirt. This shirt, worn by the Idaho delegation, de-
picted a scantily clad black woman with bestial facial and
body features. Above the picture read, “I -da-ho”. We are all
well aware that the women and minority students of this
university have taken action against those who were re-
sponsible for this incident. It is the backlash of this action
that has particularly ﬁustrated me.

There was an opinion published that told all those who
were offended by the shirt to just simply “get over it”. Well,
aren’t we just a model of rational thought. We should take
incidents like this and brush them off as “jokes”. It is this
type of sentiment that pervades the consciousness of some
white W&L students. It is this type of student who also
says things like “you wouldn’t be here if you weren’t black”.
Both of these sentiments are devoid of any consideration of
the entire story. How can you pass judgement on another
person’ s sensitivity, if you have not tried to understand what
it means to be that person?

People that ﬁt into this category seem to think that this
country is equal with respect to race relations. This is why
they have the audacity to say things such as “Get over it” or
“You are only her because you are black”. Do they think that
the end of the Civil Rights Movement meant that everything
was equal? Let’s first think about the ramifications of the
“Original Violation”, slavery. So as not to lose you, I will
proceed slowly. Let’s first agree upon on how long slavery
existed, roughly 400 years. Let’s also assume that a new
generation was born to each family, during this time, roughly
every 20 years. What does that leave us with? Yes, all you
math majors, 20 generations of slaves. I didn’t even think it

TALKBACK.

President Elrod addresses
the Idaho T-shirt incident

Dear Members of the Washington and Lee Family:

Washington and Lee is a community that for a very long
time has been shaped by the core
values of honor, respect for others

 

PAGE 3

casionally ﬁnd themselves singled out in class, not as indi-
viduals, but as the stereotyped spokespersons for their
whole race. Occasionally, overt and very public slurs like
the Idaho T-shirt understandably anger these students and
indicate that we as a community still do not measure up to

the rhetoric about our core values.
We can and must do bet-
ter. Life on this campus

66

and civility. These values are of-
ten articulated in our public state-
ments about the University, in our
policies, in editorials and stories
appearing in our campus newspa-

It contradicts what this
University stands for and

should not be a burden for
any student. It should be an
occasion for intellectual and
moral growth, an expansion
of our horizons and aware-

pers, in our daily conversations, in never Should have Oc_ ness of others, an occasion
the classroom and in many other _ , for making new and lasting
places and on many other occa— Cuffed OI’1thlS campus. friendships, an opportunity

sions. They are central to our rheto-
ric about who we are and what we

to better understand and

stand for as a University. It is this

rhetoric about values and their im-

portance in our lives that distinguishes Washington and
Lee University and gives to it the special character that it
has.

The Idaho T-shirt incident contradicts these values; it
contradicts what this University stands for and never
should have occurred on this campus. This sort of vulgar,
wrong, hurtful, and offensive image conveys to our black
and female students that they are second class citizens on
this campus.

This incident of incivility and disrespect is the third of
its kind this year alone and indicates that for some of us
these values are at best only rhetorical in nature — words
to be spoken from time to time, if that, but not lived in
relation to all persons in this community.

Life on this campus for our minority students is not
easy. Being in a minority never is, but being in a minority
on this campus, given the values that guide us, should not
be the difficulty it often is.

Take, as an example, being a black student. Without
thinking we say things that are hurtful and offensive to or
within earshot of these fellow students. They often endure
verbal or written and social slights that make them feel
unwelcome and uncomfortable on this campus. They oc-

’ , care for people who are dif-
ferent from ourselves.

I am grateful for the
faculty’s strong statement provoked by the Idaho T-shirt
incident. Its call for a more inclusive community is power-
fully stated. I am as grateful that it created a nine person
Task Force to improve the quality of life for all minority
students. I am grateful that the trustees last spring created
a committee under the leadership of three trustees, Tom
Shepherd, A. C. Hubbard and William Hill to examine from
top to bottom the quality of life for minority students on
this campus. This Committee will now be advised and sup-
ported by the faculty Task Force, while the Task Force also
gives these issues its own consideration. The administra-
tion welcomes recommendations from the Shepherd Com-
mittee and the Task Force and will rely upon both as well as
student leaders for assistance in implementing them.

We must put this hurtful incident behind us, as we must
put before us the challenge it has left in its wake. I ask each
of you to join me in an honest and concerted effort to make
this community as good as its rhetoric by becoming a com-
munity which makes every one of its students feel truly
welcome and at home here.

Sincerely,

John W. Elrod

was that much, but let’s take this further. How long has it
been since blacks were given equal rights under the law?
Well, if I use my fingers, I get roughly 30 years. It is impor-
tant to emphasize that we were only given equal rights un-
der the law. We still do not experience equal rights in other
facets of life. I will explain this later so as not to accelerate
the pace of enlightenment. So we have now calculated that
there have been 1 .5 generations of equality. Wow! Do people
think that you can actually undo 400 years of damage only
by doing work for 3 .75 percent of the time you spent bleed-
ing us for free labor? (Northemers should not be exempt
from this responsibility because of the lack of effectiveness
of Reconstruction) Instead of thinking that everything is
equal, maybe you should realize that you still have 370 years
of hard labor in “40 Acres and a Mule Federal Penitentiary”.

Now that we understand that there is no way to currently
have this “equality”, we must turn to its effects. Once upon
a time, many wise people got togetherand thought up this
wonderful idea of affirmative action. It was created to help
those who would otherwise have no opportunity to pursue
the American dream.

If a person comes from a family that consists of people
who have never gone to college and do not have the neces-
sary skills to survive in this society; they would be given
assistance. When we give this member of the family a chance
to be educated in the same way whites are, they should be
able to function in society. That ability to function would
then pass to his son or daughter; they would be able to
afford books or a computer, both of which help mankind
educate themselves. Therefore, the country would not have
to shell out billions of dollars in welfare to keep millions of
heads above water.

It is not enough to simply be hardworking in this coun-
try. There are plenty of people who would work a minimum
wage job if they could actually support themselves with
that income. This is why we have affirmative action. So you
should now know why I find it offensive when people say
things like “You are only here because you are black”. The
fact is, there are people in this country who are poor and

 

“Isn’t there anything else going
on at W&L?”
— Matt OBrion ‘O1

 

“It’s the tip of the iceberg for
underlying issues.”
— Lauren LaFauci ’Ol

uneducated onlybecause. they ,are.,black. So maybe you
should “Get Over It”.

On to the definition of a joke, which you had a ball pa-
tronizing us with. Thanks but no thanks. It’s my turn. Let me
start by asking this question: When another person decides
to laugh about a very negative quality in you, what do you
do? (a) write an opinion article on how funny that joke was
(b) feel a little upset because you were the butt of a nasty
joke (c) ask Webster what a joke is? I should apologize here
because this is a trick question. The answer is (b) and (c).
The problem with this situation is that people are laughing
at you. They’re having a good time at your expense. Should
we expect you to laugh with them? Therefore we should
have eliminated (a). By process of elimination we are left
with (b) and (c). Minorities would simply answer (b), but
since you never had the word joke on a vocabulary test in
high school, you should also answer (c). I would assume
that this type of thought process would be “common sense,”
but you know what they say about people who “assume.”

It is a very cruel world for minorities in this country so
you should understand why we are sensitive to attacks.
This country has worn our armor down over a period of 500
years. So don’t expect me to laugh about any more so-called
jokes, because you won’t see any smiles, all you will see is

anger reddening my face. In a half-century, or so, you will be
the minority and I will not have forgotten my anger. It will
invigorate me at that old age. If you want equality, as I do,
there will be no more jokes, no more patronizing opinion
articles, and no more ignorance. You should take these con-
siderations into account and not tell me to “get over” any-
thing, ever again!

Sincerely,

Toussaint Crawford ’03

Editor ’s Note: The "get over it" article referred to in
this letter did not use the phrase “you are only here
because you are black” or any phrase with that
connotation

What do you think about
" the Idaho T-shirt uproar?

 

“The response was drastically
blown out of proportion.”
-— Ryan Truax ’Ol

 

 

“I’m so sick ofit.”
——Jean Rowan ‘O1

 

 

PAGE 4

W&I§

he Tiling-tum lﬂhi

IFE  

 

MARCH 20, 2000

UJHQSSG

C5 en
701

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Some people spend years adjust-
ing to a new country and new cul-
ture. Not so with Vanessa Chen, a
junior from Toronto, Canada. A

at Washington and Lee University.

“I came as a prospective and I
had a lot of ﬁm,” she said. “I looked
at a lot of schools on the east coast,
and I liked this one the best. It has
a really good journalism school, and

school in the South was just really
different than anything I would
have had going to school at home,
so I thought that the change of pace
would be really interesting.”

The main difference that she has
found between the United States
and Canada has been in the atti-
tudes of the people.

“People are a lot more liberal and
open-minded in Canada,” she said.
“They’re not all freaky Republicans.”

Nevertheless, she has gotten

A « used to life here and is working on

ﬁnding her niche. She decided to
graduate early because, as she said,
“I just came to the conclusion I
didn’t want to be an undergrad any-
more. I wanted to get on to ﬁlm
school or grad school or work.”
She hopes to continue her edu-
cation at a school like UCLA or
USC. She is well on her way with
the incredible internships that she
has had the opportunity to take.
Last summer, Chen interned with
the Jim Henson Company, best
known for its productions such as
“Sesame Street” and “The Muppet
Show.” Chen, searching for an in-
ternship, went to their web site, saw
that they had aniinternship pro-
gram, applied, and was accepted.
“I’ve always been a big fan of
“Sesame Street,” and working there
just seemed like it would be a lot of
fun,” she said. “It was a kid’s dream
come true.”

SIGNATURE STUDENT

    

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Chen interned in the children’s
programming and development de-
partment, the department respon-
sible for coming up with ideas for
shows and movies. Far from being
a typical photocopying, ﬁling, cof-
fee-making intern, Chen was able

in negotiations to buy the rights to
one of those books,” she said.
Having enjoyed her taste of pro-
fessional life last summer, Chen
plans on targeting a different audi-
ence this summer. She will be work-

ferences. Once a month I get to go
to a premiere,” she said.

While neither of these intem-
ships were_paid, she gets college
credit and priceless work experience
for them. At W&L, she gets addi-
tional experience through her ma-
jors. She is the director of The
Saint Valentine’s Day Massacre,
one of the One Acts 2000 perfor-
mances opening in the Lenfest
Center on March 23.

Eventually, she hopes to be a
ﬁlm producer out of Los Angeles.

“All the internships that I’ve
done have been in L.A., and that’s
just the best place for what I want
to do,” she said.

Q: What is your favorite movie?

A: “Swimming With Sharks,
with Frank Whaley and Kevin
Spacey — it’s just sick, disturbing
and hilarious.”

Q: When you were little, what
did you want to be when you grew
up?

A: “The Incredible Hulk, or
Wonder Woman.”

Q: What’s the best part of be-
ing a j—school major?

A: “The candy dish in Melissa
Cox’s office.”

Q: Who is your hero, and why?

A: “My mom. She has just made
a lot of sacriﬁces for me, and she’s
just an incredibly strong lady.”

Apparently, her daughter takes
aﬁer her.

 

 

 

Students o it all in just One Act

One Acts 2000: Seven student/directors
take control of the Lenfest Center

By Eliarma Marziani
F154 TURES EDITOR

Armed students have not violently
invaded Lenfest Center and demanded
control. Rather, it is that time of year,
when students take over every aspect
of theater production and present their
masterpieces to the entire community:
One Acts 2000.

One Acts 2000 is a compilation of
seven one-act, student-directed plays.

These directing students spent fall
term deciding on a play to direct, the
first half of winter term researching that
particular play, and the second half
bringing it all together. The student
directors were responsible for all ar-

. . _ rangements including casting, sched- on a conﬂict between the
fomer my Henson cgmpany mtem’ to gf“ Involved and See some of uling, scenery, lighting, and costum- two. That conﬂict reveals
pI'0SpCCtlVC  Intern, and 3 her ldeas come allve.  a a between them 
double major inprimjoumalism and “I had read a couple of books gI’rofessor J D Martinez has super neged)s to be bridged
:11:;t:rr’a::::ngf1%: c%ar::uC:t1::;:s 1:26 (S)l(l)I:If:1)‘r)'r_rt\};aSthIotv1v1S°u2§:; vised and advised the students, but Senior Johnny Bubb
Successfun thrust herseif into life g ’ the bulk of the responsibility has been decided to direct a bizarre

y at the end ofthe summer they were theirs. Their success will be judged as play by Tina Howe, aptly

the play; open Thursday night. The
One Acts is a more than 27-year old
theater tradition, and this year’s rep-
ertoire doesn’t seem likely to disap-
point the high expectations set by
years past.

directed by Washington and Lee Uni-
versity junior Vanessa Chen. Chen de-

scribed the plot, “Every year, these two
ex-lovers meet on Valentine’s Day.
This year’s meeting takes an extremely
bizarre twist. . .“

Junior Francis McWilliams also
chose to direct a comedy, Foreplay,
or the Art of the Fugue, by David Ives
which he describes as, “Chuck has
only three things on his mind, mak-
ing a nice shot, keeping score and
getting it in the hole —— the seduc-
tive art of miniature golf, that is, or is
it?” ’

Junior Ryan Truax directs Nenna
Beber’s Misreadings, a
more serious play about
a student/teacher rela-
tionship, which focuses

named Teeth. Bubb said
of its plot, “In a routine
visit to the dentist, a
woman reveals her deep-
est fears to him, whose
characteristics and ac-

Walsh, is directed by se-
nior Patrick Driscoll. The

play is set in 1912 Dublin and tells the
story of James Joyce who wants to
immortalize Molly Bloom in his writ-
ing, and the incredible lengths he
needs to go to in order to gain her con-
sent.

Junior Zeenie Ginwalla will be di-
recting Tony Kushner’s Reverse Tran-
scription, a dark comedy telling the
tale of six playwrights who broke into
a cemetery to bury another.

For Whom the Southern Belle Tolls
is a Christopher Durang parody di-
rected by junior Juliann Ulin. “The play
is a parody on Tennessee Williams’
The Glass Menagerie and takes a hi-
larious look at the efforts of a South-
ern belle mother clinging to her ‘charm

and vivacity’ to marry off her hypo-
chondriac son to a feminine caller,”
she said.

The-directors have had a busy year
preparing for this event, and hope for
a good turnout. They have enjoyed
the experience, though.

“It has been so incredibly easy for
me because my actors [Colin Tate and
Cassie Ritter] are so professional, and
my stage manager [Brook deRosa] is
just making life so easy on me,” said
Chen. “I feel that I haven’t done work
at all on it!”

Act One opens Thursday night at
8 p.m., and Act Two opens Friday night
at 8 p.m. No tickets are required for
these performances.

 

I :::e‘:; ttglgiuzasliogggﬁliglf  mg for HBO” Media Relations De’ The program is split into two acts, tions closely resemble

TN . y’ ’ partmem‘ , _ _ each of which has its own night. those of a mad scientist.”

15 3 great liberal 3115 0011689, and “A lot of it Will involve being on Act one Actlawo,

it s really hardto find one of those set for productions. Some of it will The St. Valentine ,s Day Massacre’ Molly and James’ a I photo comm Sum wager
"1 Canada’ Gomg to a really small ha“? to be Preparing for Press 0011' written by Allan Knee, is a comedy comedy written by sheila Dentist Dr. Rose (sophomore Scott Gray) and patient Amy (freshman

Mary Carol Mazza) begin an extraordinary dental visit in Teeth, one of
seven student directed one act plays to be featured in One Acts 2000.

TOYOTA-l Oi

MORE VALUE/LESS MONEY §

INTKODUCING THEALLNEW

TOYOTA ECHO

THERE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looks on the outeide, great room on the ineide.

Cruise the highway at 40 Ml’G'...vcry thrifty. Power? Plenty! it’s a 1.5 liter hi—tech

16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicke ou1:lO8 horsepower

any time you want it. And heat of all, Echo ie the loweet priced Toyota!

 

Academic couple seeks
Egg Donor 21-28

for East Coast clinic.
Compensation $12,000.
Outstanding SATs and
academics, analytical,
even-tempered, dark hair
and eyes, olive complex-
ion, even-featured, 5’ 7”
or taller, and leanlathletic
build. Please describe mo-
tivation along wlseveral
[returnable] photos to:

1

 

Now an thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe those with limited

credit hietory buy or leaee a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details. PCB 22

West Kingston, RI 02892

r @ TOYOTA real values. everyday.—-I www_g51;-[;Oy01;a_COm V All seriousreplies answered

‘EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.

A

l

h

MARCH 20, 2000

S

@112 Iatng-tum lﬂlrt

PORTS

PAGE 5

No. 5 men’s lacrosse rebounds with two wins on week

By Brendan Harrington

STAFF WRITER

The ﬁfth-ranked Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team completed their tour of the Centennial Conference this
week by posting wins over Dickinson and Franklin &
Marshall.

On Saturday aﬁemoon the Generals downed Franklin &
Marshall 17-10 in Lancaster, Pa. Junior attackrnan Bernie
Norton scored four goals and two assists to lead the Gener-
als, while juniors Matt Dugan and Pope Hackney each added
four goals.

“I thought we played pretty well both offensively and
defensively,” Norton said. “We just had a few mental lapses
that can be easily corrected.”

Senior attackman Chris Brown Brown notched three goals,

and senior attackman Colin Dougherty had one goal and four
assists, as the Generals really spread it around on oﬂ°ense.

“There’s a whole bunch of us on offense that have a lot
of experience,” Norton said. “Whether it’s me or Pope or
Dugan, someone is going to get it done each game.”

The Generals (5-1) struck ﬁrst just 34 seconds into the
contest when Brown scored off an assist from Dougherty.
The Diplomats (1-3) tied the contest 1-1 with 8:39 left in the
first quarter, but just 5 1 seconds later Bernie Norton put the
Generals ahead for good by scoring his first goal of the day.

The Generals ledjust 4-2'at the end of the first quarter,
but W&L took control of the game in the second quarter by
scoring seven goals en route to a 1 1-5 halﬁime lead.

Dugan opened the second half with back-to-back goals
to give W&L what turned out to be their biggest lead of the
game at 13-5. From there W&L coasted to the victory.

Junior goalie Wes Hays made seven saves for the Gen-
erals and F&M’s Bob Michel and David Kahn combined
to stop 14 W&L shots. The Generals outshot the Diplo-
mats 47- 19.

The Generals posted their first shutout in seven years
when they defeated Dickinson 23-0 at Wilson Field on
Wednesday afternoon.

Brown tallied a career-high nine points for W&L as he
scored six goals and added three assists. The Generals
outshot the Red Devils 78-7 in producing their first shutout
since a 23-0 win over Shenandoah in 1993.

The Generals led 14-0 at the half and rested their regulars
during the second half, but still came away with the 23-goal
victory.

Attackmen Andrew Jones and Dugan each scored three
goals for the Generals, while junior Wes Hays combined

The Generals fall to Franklin
& Marshall 10-6, but re-

bound with a home win over
ODAC foe Lynchburg

The Franklin & Marshall women's lacrosse team
handed Washington and Lee its second loss of the sea-
son on Saturday, downing the visiting Generals by a 10-6
margin.

F&M jumped out to an early 2-0 lead before W&L
could tally a goal. Sophomore Courtenay Fisher got the
Generals on the board with an unassisted goal at the 22:22
mark of the first half. Freshmen Laura Wilson and Leslie
Bogart then tallied goals just :44 seconds apart to give W&L
what proved to be its only lead of the contest at 3-2.

The Diplomats rallied, scoring the final three goals of
the first half for a 5-3 lead at the break.

F&M continued its streak at the onset of the second
half, notching the first two goals for a 7-3 lead. W&L senior
Katherine Riddle connected for two second half goals, but
the Generals could never climb back into the game.

For the game, the Diplomats outshot W&L by a count
of 22-2 1 . W&L senior Ginny Jemigan tallied 12 saves in
goal to help keep the Generals within striking distance.
Kim Kelly and Laura Fine led F&M with three goals apiece.

Junior attacker Ellen Ritsch tallied two goals less than
one minute apart to break a 3-3 deadlock with 11:08 re-
maining and propel the Washington and Lee women's
lacrosse team to a 5-3 victory over visiting Lynchburg
College on Wednesday.

Lynchburg jumped to an early 1-0 lead when sopho-
more Jodi Graul netted an unassisted goal just 8:46 into
the contest. W&L quickly answered, however, as Fisher
connected for two unassisted goals, giving the Generals
a 2-1 lead entering the halftime break.

W&L (3-2, 2-1 ODAC) increased its lead to 3-1 just :52

More up and down for women’s lacrosse

RUN LOLA, RUN: Sophomore Courtenay Fisher ﬂys by during W&L’s win over Lynchburg on Wednesday.

seconds into the second half when freshman Laura Wilson
scored off an assist from senior Katherine Riddle. The Hornets
retaliated, eventually tying the contest at 3-3 on an Erin Campbell
goal with 13 :40 remaining in regulation. With the score knotted,
Ritsch ﬁred home the garne-winner at the 1 1 :08 mark, giving the
Generals a 4-3 lead. Her second goal came just :55 seconds later.

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

Senior Ginny Jemigan had a stellar game in goal for
. W&L, stopping 1 5 Hornet shots. Lynchburg also received
a solid effort from its netrninder as sophomore J en
McHugh produced 14 saves.
W&L hosts Mary Washington at 2 p.m on Saturday.
—Courtesy of Sports Information

with freshman Brandon Ross and senior Dan Grattan to get .

the shutout in goal.’

Norton says it can be easy to look right past weaker
opponents like Dickinson and F&M, but in the end the team
stays focused.

“The coaches and the captains make sure we don’t look
past these games,” Norton said. “We know we have to play
it one game at a time.”

The Generals are now 3-1 against teams from the Centen-
nial Conference, with wins against Washington College,
Dickinson and F&M. The Generals only loss of the season
was a 6-4 loss to Gettysburg last Sunday.

“I think we’re over the Gettysburg loss,” Norton said.
“There’s not much we can do unless we meet them in the
playoffs. But it was a positive week and Coach Stagnitta
was happy with what went on.”

Baseball gets their. . .

First ODAC Win

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball team split a double
header with Hampden Sydney Saturday to earn their first
ODAC win of the season, and contribute to a 4-1 week.

The Generals opened up the week on Tuesday with an 8-
3 blowout over Mary Washington. Freshman sensation
Michael Hanson hurled a complete game six-hitter while
smashing two home runs. Hanson’s older brother, David,
went 2-for-4 on the day, as did senior Schuyler Marshall and
sophomore Matt Kozora. Marshall also added two RBIs.

Saturday brought the Generals their first ODAC victory
as they opened up the double header with Hampden Sydney
with a 4-2 victory before falling 1-0 in the nightcap. Hanson
again heated up in game one, going yard on the fnst pitch of
the game for a 1-0 lead. The Generals built their lead to 4-0 the
next inning, keyed by an RBI single by senior John Madden.
Senior righthander David Sigler tossed a complete game eight-
hitter, allowing only one earned run and striking out nine.

Senior hurler Chris Stakem pitched brilliantly in game two,
but lost in a 1-0 pitchers duel.

The Generals swept Sunday’s double header at West Vir-
ginia Tech, taking game one 3-2 and the nightcap 5-3. Hanson
pitched another complete game in game one, allowing only
three hits and no earned rims for his fifth victory of the
season. Marshall knocked in the game winning RBI in the
bottom of the seventh, scoring Hanson for W&L’s third run.

W&L righthander Kevin Swenson earned his first career
victory in game two, going 6 1/3 innings with only seven hits.

“We should have come out with two wins [Saturday],”
said Littlehale. “We couldn’t get the bats going for [Stakem].”

As for freshman star Michael Hanson?

“He works hard, and he’s just good. That’s the bottom line.”

The Generals first ODAC win was nice, but still gives
them a big hill to climb. Does Littlehale believe the Generals
can get back in the conference race?

“Hopefully. That’s all I can say about that, hopefully.”

W&L (1 1-9, 1-5 ODAC) returns to action on Wednesday
when they travel to Bridgewater for a 3 p.m. contest.

Women’s tennis coasting in ODACS, looking to nationals

By Steele Cooper
SPOR Ts EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s tennis has gone looking
'or some competition outside of the Old Dominion Athletic
Zonference.

The Generals defeated Virginia Wesleyan and Mary
Vashington both 9-0 on Sunday. The win over VWU was
~ne more in a string of cursory beatings that the tennis team
as handed to ODAC opponents, but the win over MWC
ignaled promising times ahead for the regional force.

“It really was an amazing win,” said head coach Cinda
tankin. “They’re a powerhouse in the South. We’ve beaten
hem before, but never really handed them a drumming like

his before,”

W&L has not dropped a single match in their 10-0 streak
aver ODAC foes. Wednesday, the Generals cruised through
Mo conference matches, beating Bridgewater and Eastern

Mennonite both 9-0 on Wednesday. Over the course of the
12 singles matches and three doubles matches, the Generals
collectively dropped only 23 games while claiming 192 on
their way to the convincing victories.

Top seeded senior Erin Eggers defeated Amy Sauder of
EMU 6-4, 6-0. That first set was the best performance by any
of the Generals’ opponents in Wednesday’s matches.

The Generals won seven shutout matches. Senior Brooke
Hartzell and freshmen Alyson Brice, Laura Bruno, Molly
Wooten, and Bonnie Goldsmith all won their singles con-
tests 6-0, 6-0.

Senior Liz Gay and sophomore Manning Willard, playing
third doubles against Bridgewater grabbed the 8-0 shutout.
The third doubles team of junior Christina Campbell and
Wooten fared just as well against EMU, winning 8-0.

Long story made short, the Generals sit high atop the
ODAC and don’t look as if they are going anywhere but up
for a long time.

'lL.\_.‘Jll._.\..__\\"_/....’...

M

EARLY WORSHIP

A contemporary Worship Service
at Lexington Presbyterian Church
8:45-9:30 a.m. in Dunlap Auditorium
Would you like to attend church, but you’re looking for

something less formal than “the usual?”

We invite you to join

195 for OUT “CW, infonnal, Early Worship service. Casual dress
1S ﬁne. We’ll be serving rolls, juice and coffee both before and
aﬁer the worship service.

on

“I don’t think we’ 11 have any problem in the ODAC,” said
Rankin. ‘‘It has been our expectation to win the ODAC.”

Friday, the women’s tennis team traveled to Charlotte to
face the Division I Forty-niners of UNCC looking for some
worthy competition. The Generals almost pulled off the up-
set against the Conference USA team, but came up short in
a 5-4 loss, bringing their overall record to 1 1-2.

The two singles wins for the Generals came from the
deep stock of talented freshman players. Freshman Erika
Proko (3) easily blew past Lauren Hastings of UNCC in
straight sets, 6-1, 6-1. Her classmate Brandi Jane Wedgewoith
(5) defeated Stacie Luders of UNCC also in straight sets, 6-
2, 6-4.

“The freshmen have really, really helped the program this
year,” said Rankin. “They have contributed so much, and
will make this program get stronger and stronger.”

In doubles play, the Generals won two of the three matches.
Sophomore Melissa Hatley and Hartzell trounced their oppo-
nents by the score of eight games to one, and sophomore
Sallie Gray Strang and Bruno won their match 8-2.

This performance against a D-1 team bodes well for the
Generals, who will host the most important tournament of
their regular season this weekend at the Fab-Five T‘oinna-
ment. W&L and the four other teams that will compete are all
ranked number 11 or higher in the nation. W&L is ranked
ninth.

This year, selection for the NCAA tournament has been
“regionalized.” Only the top two teams from each region will
be extended a bid to the national tournament. W&L, Emory,
and Sewanee are the three biggest contenders for those two
spots. The Fab-Five Tournament could give the Generals
great positioning going into the regional tournament

“Saturday [at the Fab-Five Tournament] we will play
Emory. We have to beat them to get the number one seed in
the region,” said Rankin. “This tournament is the whole
heart of our season.”

The Generals look to continue steam rolling through the
ODAC on Monday when they face Randolph-Macon
Women’s College. W&L faces number 11 Kenyon in the
opening round of the F ab-F ive Tournament on Friday.

Swimmer Hayes
competes at NCAAs

student travel.

it’s he re.

Washington and Lee junior Colin
Hayes finished ninth out of25 com-
petitors in the 200-yard butterﬂy pre-
liminaries at the NCAA Champion-
ship Meet held at Emory University.

Hayes’ time of 1:53.00 marked his
lifetime best. The top time in the
event (1151.05) was recorded byjun-
ior John Limouze of Oberlin College.

The ninth place ﬁnish guarantees
Hayes honorable mention All-
America status.

Hayes’s performance at the Grove
City Invitational on Feb. 19 was good
enough to earn the NCAA provi-
sional qualifying time in the 200-yard
butterfly. He won that event in
1:53.53. Hayes’ performance with 95
overall points at that meet also
helped the W&L men’s swim team to
a first place finish out of the seven
teams at the invitational.

Hayes is the top seed entering the
consolation ﬁnals heat.

He also earned honorable men-
tion A11-America status in the 100-
yard butterﬂy, finishing in 12th place
overall.

Hayes’ time of 50.99 in the 100-
yard butterﬂy marked his lifetime
best.

The top time in the event (48.29)
was recorded by senior Aaron Cole
of Denison University.

Hayes also ﬁnished 39th of 52
competitors in the 200-yard indi-
vidual medley, which was held on
Thursday afternoon.

Hayes’ time of 1:57.96 marked his
second-best time ever. The top time
in the event (1 :51.83) was recorded
by freshman Reed Boon of Kenyon
College.

——Courtesy of Sports Information

 

 Who  the greatest impact in the equity markets in 1999?

gigimarketiperfcrmance: An average A
      increase forlead-managed lPOsand
afsecondary offerings. 9  ‘ "  

#1 increase in market share: Largest percentage
increase in total equity underwriting volume
Versus any other firm.

CREDIT FIRST
  N www.csfb.com

 

  

VOLUME 102, NO. 25

 

"P. ,‘;.':~:g §";,"t;*I,-.» ., I . .
, -‘}.6f‘.:.',;‘...i- G. .,_. ’ if-.r-I L,3RA;qy
‘JV!-\.>H:i\lL"-ff? are 4'. 5.5-}; UNII/easrrv

   

 

he ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

“WE’vE BEEN COMING EVERY MONDAY FOR 102 YEARS.”

THIRD RING OF HELL, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1066

@112 {ﬂirt

April 1,
1492

Hill ofﬁcials:
“Racism no
big deal”

See the Deans run

Girl wakes up
in own puddle

of vomit
See Gilliam 409

Double-ply
Trident
replaces toilet

paper
See Gaines
bathrooms

GCF: “The

. Hell with it”

See Jerry Falwell
after school

Independent
maintains

“own identity”
See Woods Creek

Atkins spotted
living under
BV bridge

See SAEs bring him
food

Student has
friends in
Athens,

Chapel Hill
See Cool Guy

Phi Proﬁle:
Special Forces

ofﬁcer Clahk

See definition of
Napoleonic

New Spring
term courses

announced:

SOC 248 “The Less For-
tunate: How to Talk to Your
Non-Big Four Friends”

ANTH 134 “Oakleys on
"a Rainy Day: A Study of
Non-functional Clothing”

HIST 172 “Indifference at
W&L: A Historical Perspec-
tive”

CHEM 104 “Getting the
Most for your Ecstasy Dol-
lar”

ENGN 264 “Why Are You
at W&L?”

JOUR 321 “Ethics, We
Don’ Need No Steenkin’
Ethics”

See The Phi

By Chip Furlow

STAFF WRITER

In a controversial move, the administration
banned ﬂip-ﬂops on campus Friday.

“We felt this was the right move,” said Dean
of Students David Howison. “I mean really,
there’s a line and I say we’ve crossed it.”

The move was made in response to the over-
whelming prevalence of unkempt Greek mem-
bers roaming campus.

“I’m in support of a casual classroom for the
students,” said professor of history J.D. Futch.
“But when I have guys coming in wearing a camo
hat and ﬂip-ﬂops. . . I mean, that doesn’t even
match. Who wears ﬂip-ﬂops to go hunting?”

Students gathered Friday evening to pro-
test the decision. “They tried to pull the same
sh** with Croakies last year and we beat that.
We just wanted to get out and voice our opin-
ion,” said senior Phi Kap Russell Mackin as he
ﬁlled a cup from the lukewarm keg of Natural
Light attendant at the protest. “Plus, there’s
not really anything going on tonight.” The pro-

test began to grow unruly when the keg ran out
shortly aﬂer midnight.

“All of a sudden I got this call from Dean
Howison’s house,” said Security officer J.R.
“Butch” Reynolds. “ When I arrived on the scene,
I saw about 50 students beating the sh** out of a
Honda Accord and chanting ‘Go to Hell Howison.’
It was scary. You try telling 50 frat guys to quit
beating a car.” The Accord, which, it was later de-
termined, belonged to Howison’s visiting mother-
in-law, suffered more than $6,000 in damage.

The students ended their riot by burning
Howison in effigy. Lexington police, garbed in riot
gear and pitching tear gas canisters, ﬁnally quelled
the disturbance around 2:30 a.m.

Tension had been building since the adminis-
tration announced two weeks ago that it would
sign an exclusive distribution contract with New
Balance and Patagonia.

“We’re very excited to solidify our relationship
with these campus apparell leaders,” President John
Elrod said. “This should streamline a lot of our
student’s clothing purchases. Plus, it’ll hopefully
help nip the whole Abercrombie thing in the bud.”

photo by The Biscuit

BIRKS A POOR SUBSTITUTE: Students put the beat down on Howison’s crappy car.

Administration bans ﬂip-ﬂops on campus

Controversial footwear decision sparks anti-Howison sentiment in ass—kickin’ midnight kegger and bonﬁre

LAYING DOWN THE LAW LIKE MAMA sAYs: Thomas “Baner” Bane about to open a
can o’ “whup—ass” on ﬂip-ﬂopping student offender Jessica Morton.

photo by The Biscuit

Prospective “very impressed” by W&L Alcohol use

Tradition, tailgates and Phi Psi’s third ﬂoor excite
girl; strong possibility she’ll apply, admissions says

By Ling-Ling

PHI PANDA BEAR

Prospective student Lisa Woodring was im-
pressed by the strong traditions at Washington
and Lee, sources close to her indicate.

After visiting last weekend, “She was just rav-
ing about all the tradition they have up there,”
said her mother, Judy Woodring. “The honor sys-
tem, the speaking tradition, and all those really

old brick buildings. I guess she’s just a very tradi-
tional girl.”

Besides the honor, friendliness, and neat-o ar-
chitecture, Lisa found other traditions intact at
the school.

“Yeah, she said everybody just gets wasted all
day long there,” noted Julie Thomas, a member of
Woodring’s soccer team. “Apparently they have this
tailgate thing whereeverybody dresses up and drinks
before football games. It’s a real tradition, I guess.”

Other Washington and Lee traditions
Woodring was able to participate in included wear-
ing her new black pants, puking in the Graham-
Lees toilets and pleasuring a junior Econ major in
a third floor room of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity
house.

Thus, according to super-secret sources at ad-
missions, W&L and Woodring would seem to be
the perfect match. It seems likely that the pro-
spective will choose to attend W&L.

“Yeah, she wants to go somewhere with a lot
of brick buildings and ivy, and she didn’t get into
Dartmouth, so I guess it’s W&L,” remarked John
Woodring, the prospective’s brother.

Students, workers exchange nervous glances

Construction workers becoming part of W&L
landscape, cause uneasiness among rich kids

“NO COMMENT”: Construction workers stubbornly refuse The Phi’s
relentless efforts to discuss student/worker relations.

By Holly Wood

STAFF WRITER

“Yeah, seems like every site
I’m on there’s some t‘******

senior

Company.

rette.”

photo by The Biscuit

Brichford.

In the latest renewal of the
age-old tradition of uneasy co-
existence of the social classes,
Economics
Reynolds Jackson exchanged
on Tuesday a curt, nervous
glance with Gary Brichford, a
brick mason working on the new
parking garage for the Haskell

“Yeah, there’s always the
same guy standing there when
I walk by. I guess he’s like a
guard or something,” said Jack-
son. “I’m never sure whether to
say ‘hi’ or not.”

“Yeah, I totally see the same
guy every day,” said Katherine
Bannister, a junior English ma-
jor. “He’s always smoking a ciga-

Brichford has become a fa-
miliar sight to the motorists and
pedestrians who pass his post
at the Nelson Street entrance to
the project site. Jackson and
Bannister are not alone in their
reaction. Several students have
reported feelings of intense
guilt and anxiety as a result of
their daily walk past the con-
struction site, a phenomenon
which is not unfamiliar to

rich kids think they can say ‘hi’
to you and it makes it alright I ’m
working two shifts to feed my
family back in West Virginia
while they get drunk every week-
end on Mommy and Daddy’s
bill,” he said.

Brichford has yet to experi-
ence any feelings of solidarity
with the friendly students. “I
guess they think they’re all real
t‘****** Socialists or some-
thing. Right on comrade,” said
Brichford as he climbed into his
1986 Yugo hatchback before
making the drive to his room at
the Econo-Lodge on Route 1 1.

Bannister has made it a goal
to say “hi” before the end of the
year. “It seems like they work re-
ally hard, so the least we can do
is make them feel welcome here. I
get so mad when people just walk
by them like they’re not even
human beings. I mean, we do
have a Speaking Tradition here.”

Jackson concurred. “Yeah, I
guess they are building our park-
ing garage for us, even if they
have taken their sweet P“ * * * * *
time with it. Can you believe l’ve
had to park my Four-Runner
over in the Red Light District for
the last month? It’s almost not
even worth driving anymore.”

major

antiquated?

Java at the GHQ draws
huge crowd, while country
party at Windfall ignored

By Poison
OPEN UP AND SAY/lHHH....

In a stunning turn of events Wednesday night,
“Java at the GHQ”, a non-alcoholic alternative
to the traditional party scene, outdrew the keg
party simultaneously taking place at Windfall.

“Yeah, I get pretty tired of drinking with my
friends and talking to hot girls,” remarked Scott
Garrett, a sophomore Phi Delt, “I was just ready
for a change, you know?”

Garrett was not alone. The “Java” night drew
its highest attendance ever on Wednesday, an
occurrence which administrators were at a loss
to explain.

“I don’t know what the hell’s going on.” said
a confused Dean Howison, as he fought his way
through the gaggle of KDs standing in front of
the coffee bar. “Is anyone driving out to Wind-
fall later?”

Some called the “Java” attendance record a
ﬂuke; others saw it as a seminal event in Wash-
ington and Lee history.

Jane Horton, head of Student Health noted,
“I really think the culture’s changing here. I mean
really, how many generations of W&L kids can
spend their time standing around in polo shirts,
and khakis, drinking, before it gets boring? I think
coffee is really the new answer to quelling the
mind-numbing boredom of living in Lexington
as a an 18-21 year old.”

One reason for the big draw might have been
“Java at the GHQ’s” Amsterdam Night. The an-
nual theme night featured several Dutch activi-
ties like tulip planting, a Van Gogh exhibit and an
exhibit on windmill making. But the main draw may
have been the “Phatty J” booth featuring large
“marijuana cigarettes” and optional “bong hits.”
Several hookers were on hand as well, represent-
ing Amsterdam’s famous Red Light District. Over-
all, patrons were impressed.

“Where else can I try the new K-bud from Nova
Scotia on the University’s tab,” said drooping sopho-
more David Crawford. “Plus, cheap whores definitely
don’t hurt. Thank you Virginia ABC Boar .”

 

 

 

 

     

 

  

   

  
   
  

      
   
 
     

          
  
  

‘ X 7 5 : I @112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlii ‘
PAGE 2 I F E ,
_ RIL FOOL s IssUE ’
. O O
Slﬂnalurc Special True faith IS found; PA WWN S at W&L

0 . “ *

  By Maj or John Thomas I used to be a member of EH4L, but upon talking to

CLOSETPWP thelPA:VthWNS people and rethinking my belief system, I

. Have on ever wondered wha . , . . rea ize _ at we were all sharing a belief in the same ideas,
owando-y 9 a) 1%] Claéz by your Seem? DO you Seek C0I:S:ta;E11::lE::§:;a;:::naS(::lC3 we werejust misguided in our focus,” Paul said. “Wayne »‘~

ers because thinking for yourself is no longer fun? Have ::sa:rand ahragls. haﬁfgen’ the Father’ and an other Sing"

B I B C 1 you ever wanted to join an elitist group who looks down 6 mere y ls C 1 rem’ so to speak’ Burt. (BaFCz_irach)’

y ' ' uu on others based upon a singular belief‘? If you answered Tom JoneS’.Englebert’ they were all made m H15 Image’

REPORTEREXTRAORDINAIRE “yes” to any of these questions Washington and Lee’s but Wayne IS the Supreme Leader",

The announcement this Week that Washington newest campus group is perfect on you’ The group opens each meeting with a series of perfor- ii
and Lee’s new parking deck will not open until the People Always Wanting Wayne Newton’s Singing inan.ces by the Chlldren Ofwayne’ who Slilg Songs by’ or
end of the next millennium was greeted with a series (P.A.W.W.N.S), a self-proclaimed “cult-esque” group has inspired b.y’ Wayne’ The group th.en studles Wayne 1”"
ofgroans from one end ofoampus to the omen recently brought its unique brand of hypocrisy and hate_ ICS, interviews with Wayne, and discuss how Wayne has

There W35: h°WeVeT» one Person who was made mongering to Lexington. Their leader, Peter, explained the $2:/Ved the human rage‘ .One member’ Matthew’ says i»
“downright giddy” by this announcement. group’s mission. iyne has changed hls Me‘ _

He is LeXlngt0n’S OW“ Special F0reeS Officer “Our whole thing is faith in Wayne Newton and His 1 Igamember the ﬁist meetmg I Came to’ Someone
Rand)’ Dwight Clahk singing,” Peter said. “What we do for our Wayne mis- p éye Dank? Schoen and I knew I wa,s,SaVed from t.he

A great deal of Clahk’sjob description consists sion, is come to a location and give out cups and CD5, Ejoistzlys my me h.ad be?“ about before’ Matthew s.ald'
Ofparking enforcementiwhkh he Performs extremely take people on Wayne retreats, and for all intents and d Sk ayne 529:?’ my hme danke Schoen’ Oh’ my “me '
dillgembﬂ busting dangerous Students and residents purposes, brainwash individuals into proclaiming their win? Schoen '- ~ .
who look suspiciously like they’ll make use of 10- beliefin Waynega SIR WAYNE. The PAWWNS esteemed leader d Le group invites all members. of the Washington
nginute parking for 11 minutes, lovingly fastening The groups has seen modest success here in Lexington and Cu“ inspriations Mr- Wayne NeWt0n- Etilnd 1::oc3:;tmi:n\l£,i;::O::1edattdbdlscovfg3:6 ml? :1‘?-

“ oots” to tires, and callin his friends at the towin ' ' * - - i e “We mug 15
amasmmmaai£mmaaiaa.g zﬁiaghseaaaﬂaaaadeihaa 8$i$h$§$£2%%$$$ﬁ£ﬁ;$$'X:$2ﬁ“$5%n““???“e”e“”“ ”

4‘ ‘ ‘I ‘ ' is . . - ' . ., 1 IZ
Clahlivsiidlildsinxi ‘Iii, Ah wontid ta tow cahs, EH4L (Englebert Humperdinck 4 Life) and FOCUS (Fans piained the transmom Bring); fri 611%, p Z3 an Us 66 games to follow’

The City of Lexington has indeed recognized the . M.‘

E3333"?i’§‘§;?;l”§ZZiiiiiﬁiiiﬁiiéiﬁifiiiifffi T“”"5d°Y»M°rCh3°Iei . ‘ I '
to his existing golf cart’ based on and named after 12:00 p.m. Charity Beneﬁt. ffI)u1}kYoor£favonte Campus B1abberrnouth.”

Clahk’s own favorite Oscar Meyer Weiner Mobile. Sponsored :,b\¥fTh’e R".7g41f”’,£hi Legal Defense Fund’

Clahk has high hopes of expansion for the future. 8:00 p'm° ’Lecm?? Sene.§‘e¥1:m.E5liq°tlmc’iL'MiQmnl’ Professors .

“Yep. Since that dang garage won’t be openin’ Emerltlofphliosophy .3‘  9‘.“"§’5“y' “The Changlilg :'
anytime soon, Ah’m gunna be cashin’ in on y’all Role 0t:PSe'ud°:. °.c“1e»ty' "La Ch.ape]‘Recepu°n to
sorry sunzab****es,” Clahk cackled gleefully, add- follow mth?ilB7Qsf!t‘?vn.g:1i.t.R°Qngli:  1 .  I . I P ’
ing that, uh, what he really meant was that he would 11:00 p‘m' Lecture Senesf : Qught to be President‘? Sponsored .
continue to strive to keep the streets of Lexington by the College  " I  ‘,
safe from hazardously arked SUVs. “And, course, _ H ‘
since, well, Ah, uh, befieal busy doin’ that, the city . . M F|”ldClY. March  .  . “  f , , .  3  ‘ 2 L E . .
can’t help but wanna buy me that Humvee Ah be T d M , i   . 6:00 a.m. VOIunteerSem1ﬁa{.oj;.  diOl3ir1Ad1T1i1.?i3n'aﬁ°n C313’? Get ~ P
needin’ to enforce the law to the best of mah capa- Ues aY' _a.rc . _ I e  W371!-ll15lHaVel0D0ItF01"ﬁ1em-”‘ ..
bilitiosy . 10:30 a.m. First annual One Man March on Washington Hall. Sponsored by sponsoredgy H'a§im‘i_-/floor‘  and The Thnberpramers Gmm ,

Clahk contends that his wish for a Humvee has ‘ the Couegf Democrat‘ I i 4300 P-'“- Squash    "On o1legé.;Libei;ty Hall Field.‘
absolutely nothing to do with insecurity about his I 6:30 P-m-‘ , R95P°[}3ib{1“YSYmP°§1um-P5Y°h-11}at¢13P°n1Y°°m€S§V¢17250Y€313- 7:30 p.m. Winter 2000’Poi  ‘Ei$stasy”’(l:981L)'ldirected . ~
manhood’ Absolutely nothing 7:30 p.m. A Organizational meeting. “W&L will be a single-sex institution anonymously; French;  "b,titles.Room 221, Williams School, . .

Anyway, Should you got done with Class one day, ’ agam” club. Arlington Women’s Center. 9:00 p.m. Candlelight‘ hon“ daho Awareness Day.‘ St. Patrick’s. ‘
and as you approach your car notice a little yellow  . c ’ ~  ‘  ” P * C '1  ii  .. if . if '‘
paper thoughtfully tucked under your windshield ,, W6dH€$dGy, MGPCH  , Saturday’  .: _  gm  E V
wiper, think of that tricky little Officer Clahk, and 7:30 p.m. Organizational meeting. “I lost a J. Crew pea coat at Pi Phi” 1:00 p_m, . concert, Lex_ gtoiiiflhil §s:(§rchestra;:Wiﬂr Xylophone solo
how he’s just saved the streets of Lexington — from . support group. Room 109, University Center. P by Jeannie'Pfi{;e‘ .¥oh11" I I '0 r, Lenfest Center.
you, sucker. 8:00 p.m. . Java at the GHQ. Special guest speaker. “How to deal with 3:00 p.m. » Ping.-pong(V  J L, _, g , niversity; Front Lawn. e e 3'

—-The Phi thanks Billy Joe Tiddledum for trans- , , George W33 daughter on campus. The do’s and don’ts,”  , 4;0Q,p,m_, ».~;3ynch,on;g¢¢;§f, L V’ 0 ' C“ ‘ v '

Iating assistance during Ofﬁcer Clahks interview.   ~, 7 o -,  Bill Clinton, President, United States. W&L mvenlurged to attend. -   . . ',,Tw¢m'51y I ‘:2; I « “

v

“How much ya got?” “Bea Arthur.” “Nothing I haven’t already done “It’s all in my name, baby!” “Only something I’d really enjoy —
— Polly Doig ‘O0 —— Max Smith ‘01 for free.” — Neal Willetts ’03 like clean up puke at The Palms.”
— Hollister Hovey ’00 —— Emily Barnes ’0l 7

TOYOTA

TOYOTA -1 01

MORE VALUE/LESS MONEY
INTRODUCING mm NEW

TOYOTA ECHO

THERE’S AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looko on the outoldc, great room on the inside.
Cruioc the highway at 40 Ml’G'...vcry thrifty. Power? Plenty! ll:’o a 1.5 liter hi-tech
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicko out lO8 horccpowcr
any time you want it. And boat of all, Echo lo the lowcot priced Toyota!

Hard-up middle-aged fat chick seeks:

Sperm Donor
ages 13-??

 

Compensation $12,000, »
$24,000 if hand-delivered.
Must have pulse, SATs no

higher than 550 (com- "

bined), low-fertility rate,

dwarf-like stature, pasty-
white complexion, albinos
preferred. Please describe

motivation and send i
several [ we wallpaper our

bathroom with them]

photos to: re

lNeedAMan@sendyourseed.com
All serious replies answered

   

New _  thru Toyota Motor Credit l"I6lP5 thoec with limited
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Cclica. Soc dealer for dctalla.

L@ TOYOTA real values. every day. —l wwwg at-i-loyota _co m

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.

APRIL FOOL’S ISSUE

iﬂing-tum lﬂhi

LER

PAGE 3

« E-mail General Notes to 
I71‘

Research conclusive: Ennui is genuine

In a striking study released Monday, researchers from
the NYU Department of Psychology challenged cynical
notions about the ennui often found among Washington
and Lee students.

“Contrary to what some people believe, and to what we
ourselves expected to ﬁnd, the indifference and apathy of
these students is quite genuine,” remarked Josh Barker,
head of the study.

Some critics of W&L society have in the past insinu-
ated that the boredom so characteristic of many students
was “just a front,” used to appear “cool” and aloof.

“That’s not true,” noted Barker. “Perhaps in the past,
the attitude commonly referred to as ‘ennui’ was part of

Ellie Etna-tum iﬂlii

Polly Doig
MikeCrittenden
Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
As If

The Biscuit

Lisa Lin

Neal Willetts

Executive in Charge of Hazing
Spirits Editor

Breaking Fluff Editor
Otterville Editor
Upcoming Fluff Editor
Filler Editor

Ex-Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Picture Girl

Assistant Picture Girl
Executive Editor ’s Slave

The Ring-tum Phi is published under extreme duress
during the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from the sale of crack and other
hallucinogenic drugs, with additional revenue from the
prostitution of staff members. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, who is
kept locked where she belongs in the basement of the
University Center.

The Ring-tum Phi does not welcome submissions or
letters anymore. Don’t cry to us; keep your opinions to
yourself. We don’t care. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the
right to edit submissions for opinion and length, and if
you’re dissing us, forget about it. Letters and columns
do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board, just select members whom you may feel free to
contact individually. Advertising does not reﬂect the
opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff, for those of
you who got your panties in a bunch over that
phonebook thing. This newspaper frequently violates
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi.
208 University Center ‘
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

some deliberate, self-conscious image. But it has now be-
come so ingrained in the culture that it is really just a natu-
ral orientation towards life for most students.”

The study was conducted by gauging subject response
to various stimuli, including pictures of starving children,
reports of a death in their family, and tales of injustice from
the Civil Rights movement. Subjects were then exposed to
more benign stimuli. -

“I guess we knew we were dealing with some deep-
seated ennui when we got more explosive responses to
stuff like ‘the parking garage won’t really be ﬁnished until
next fall; there’s nothing going on this weekend; the Co-
op quit selling Swedish Fish,’ that soit of stuff.”

There was also a more free-fomi portion of the study, in
which students were asked to write essays in response to
questions such as “What, ideally, would you do with your
life?; When have you been most impassioned in your life?;
What is your vision of Utopia?”

Most participants apparently thought themselves in the
midst of a history exam.

“I don’t even think they read the questions,” Barker
noted. “I think conducting the survey in Newcomb was a
real mistake. Those blue books didn’t help either, I guess.”

Independent maintains “own identity”

Dave Lemon, a junior anthropology major popular
around campus for his wit and eclectic sense of style, re-
vealed in a press conference Monday that he declined to
go through fraternity rush because he wished to “maintain
my own identity, you know? I mean, I don’t need forty
guys around me who all wear the same clothes, and have
the same hairstyle, and wear the same shoes, just to make
me feel good about myself,” Lemon said, as he ﬁngered
the beaded necklace which has become HIS trademark.

The conference was held in response to a question from
a friend, who asked Lemon Saturday night as they both
enjoyed the sounds of Snack Bar Jones at the Sigma Chi
fraternity house.

“Why didn’t you pledge?” asked the friend.

Lemon immediately rolled his eyes and displayed a large
grin.

“Man, that is so typical,” he said.

He then took his friend by the arm and said, “I’ll tell you
about it some time.

Secret “big four” breeding grounds
discovered by Rockbridge Sheriff

Local authorities were shocked Tuesday by the dis-
covery of a secret breeding grounds in a remote section of
Rockbridge County. Sheriff R.C. Slowcum led the task force
which discovered the grounds after a tip from a local teen-
ager, who stumbled upon the area while looking for a place
to take his girl.

The ﬁve-acre “ranch,” as one observer described it, is
apparently intended for the sole purpose of producing
young men to feed into W&L’s fabled “big four fratemi—
ties. . . [Funny cliches about W&L fraternity members
followed but were cut for space.]

Thetas show dominatrix style

Once again, Kappa Alpha Theta is on top in IM sports events

By J oc Breef

STAFF WRITER

In brutal fashion, Kappa Alpha
Theta has once again asserted its
dominance in women’s intramurals
competition. Taking first place in all
sports except ping-pong, Theta domi-
nation was utter and complete.

“We Rock! I !” exclaimed one happy
Theta as she bounded through the
halls of the Warner Center.

Theta sealed the overall champion-
ship following a bloody indoor soccer
season, but has continued to ﬁeld
teams into the spring. There are plans
to enter a team in the men’s IM foot-
ball toumament next fall.

“Dude, I’m scared,” said Roger
Bailey, member of the L2 football team,
this year’s champions. “I heard those
girls mess sh** up.”

Inside sources attribute the
sorority’s continued success to a
rigourous weight training program and
heavy use of mass-building protein
shakes.

“Yeah, some of the girls were get-
ting pretty slack in the weight room
earlier in the year. We had a few closed
meetings, and there were some pretty
intense exchanges,” said junior Kelly
Mclnnis.

“But I think we came out of it a stron-
ger, tougher group of athletic young
women.” _

In a related note, Coach Jones, head
of the IM program, held a press con-
ference Monday to dispel rumors that

Theta would be included in the men’s.

IM division next year.

“There are not now, nor have there
ever been, plans to include the Kappa
Alpha Theta sorority in the men’s in-
tramural league. We as an athletic de-
partment staff looked at the problem
closely, and we have full conﬁdence
in the safety measures now in place to
protect the young women competing

against these extraordinarily ﬁt la-

’dies.”V‘

Photo by The Biscuit
You I)oN’T WANT ANY or THIs! Do YOU WANT SOME or THIS?! DIoN’T
THINK You WANTED ANY or THIs! This is as close as these Thetas
would let our photographer get to them on the soccer ﬁeld.
“This is OUR‘ HOUSE,” they y"’elled.""‘Gef“oiit of “OUR house!”i

gm M osl’ W&L Shiclcisls

Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out how
those assets can provide you with a comfortable
retirement isquite another.

At T|AA~CREF, we can help you with both. You
can count on us not only while you're saving and
planning for retirement, but in retirement, too.

Just call us. We'll show you how our ﬂexible range
of payout options can meet your retirement goals.

With TIAA-CREF, you beneﬁt from something few
other companies can offer: a total commitment to

your financial well-being, today and tomorrow.

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.”

IAA-CHEF provides

inancial solutions
to last a lifetime.

With TIAA-CREF’s _
Retirement Income Options.‘
you can receive:

- Cash withdrawals

- Systematic or fixed—period payments
- Interest-only payments

- Lifetime income payments

- A combination of these

[REF GlUBAl‘El]U|T|ES AEET.’

36.05% 22.02” 18.7 5"’"

1 YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE INCEPTION
AS or 12/31/99 As or 12/31/99 5/1/92

1800 842-2775

www.tiaa-tref.org._

. . . . . . . . . - additional tax. Additional
1.Dependin upon our institution. Under federal tax |aw,wittidrawals prior to age 591/2 are Subled ‘0 (E5t'|¢1|0|’l§.3ﬂd "WY 3'50 be 91519“ ‘° 3 "M . . . le
restrictions glso applly to the WM Traditional Annuity. 2.The investment results_shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past pe|rfcrmanC5‘gif:l‘£2'¢?i':‘a<?‘p"'i‘c‘le"|i“)'°V:‘ "’$?"“‘p_
mes of yexumfrhese returns and the value of the principal you have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may bel more or ass maiigal and egmomic (ondm0nSvT‘AA>
tion. Foreign stock markets are subject to addmonal risks from changing currency values, interest rates, government regu aIIOI"!‘S, anpepscznﬂ mvemm Sewices me dismbmes
CREF Individual and Institutional Services, In<._d_istributes CREF cemﬁcat_e_s and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account_.fTeIac ers Cerco issue insurance and ianmmies. "AA?
the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.Tl/IA and TlM—CREF Li e nsuran .

CREFTrust Company, FSB provides trust services. Investment

‘ are not FDIC Insured. maylose value and are not bank guaranteed. For more complete i"f°'m-“lo”

on CREF, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-Z776,rexi. 5509, for the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send money. 0 2000 T|AA'CREF 1/00-

Baserl on wet Boll! survev
data from 1998,1999

Funded llll a grant from

7/1490  

Virginia llenartment of
Alcoholic Beiieragecontrol

 

 LAST WORD 

APRIL F OOLS ISSUE

Hollywood hits W&L 

   

ikv

marisa coughlan kris pollina _ _ _ _ mark rolston (Sha wshank jim stagnitta
(Teaching Mrs. Tingle) daVld $ChWlmm9l’ mike wlenlck Redemption & Aliens)

     
 

mena suvari katie boening peter gallagher greg meyers

nick carter
(American Beauty) (American Beauty)

(backstreet boys)

    

.4 2. *” » i A
michael rapaport brian brantley wes bentley zach fake tom green
(Beautiful Girls) (American Beauty)

       

mi¢h39’ 5tiP9 josh harvey Iucy Iiu B emily belcher

elizabth harve y
(Ally McBeal)

      

topher grace turner vosseler I angelina jolie heather mcdonald
(That ‘70s Show)

 

meg ryan kate mason sharon stone michelle backus

 

