 

Rin

VOLUME LXXXII_, NUMBER}

 

s-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia September 9, 1982

~
THe ee ce LINIVERSIT®
" nl f& EE UNIVENS
SHINGTON & LE
a VA. 24450

LEXINGTON,

SEP 10 1982

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tech provost wins presidency

By Todd Smith

No one was surprised when he entered the C-school classroom for
the press conference. The word was already in the press that this
trim, freckled man in a blue blazer had been offered the presidency
of Washington and Lee.

Speaking clearly and cautiously, John D. Wilson, 51, accepted,
and outlined why he was ‘‘totally committed to liberal arts educa-
tion.’”’

“We are born in a sliver of time and place and culture. We come
out of backgrounds that are circumscribed by genetics and by en-
vironment. We live our 70 to 80 years on the planet in that narrow
cocoon of culture and experience. And all that we know of ourselves
and our world if we lived only that life would be very, very
parochial, indeed,” Wilson said.

‘‘And what I see the liberal arts and science doing is permitting
us to enlarge that life, to enter different times, different cultures,
live different lives. Hamlet’s fictional life is every bit as relevant as
Elizabeth I’s historical life,”’ he said.

The official announcement came at the press conference Wednes-
day, Aug. 1, from James M. Ballengee, rector of the board of
trustees. Wilson was elected that morning by a special meeting of
the board in Northen Auditorium.

However, the news leaked at Virginia Polytechnic Institute,
where Wilson is Provost and Executive Vice President. On Satur-
day, Aug. 28, Charles Hite wrote in the Roanoke Times & World
News that Wilson had gotten the nod.

Hite called W&L to confirm his story before running it. ‘“‘We told
him we would neither confirm nor deny the story,’’ a W&L official
said. But had Hite gotten wrong information, ‘‘we would have said,
‘you better go back and check your information.’ ”

By the time the trustees saw the article, they had been warned
that it would be coming out. Many already knew that Wilson would
probably be the choice.

“It was generally understood that Wilson was the top candidate
from the start,’ said Frank Parsons, assistant to the president.
Yet, the selection process was a diligent and legitimate one, Par-
sons said.

‘T’ve heard nothing to suggest that this was a preconceived
choice or that the review process was just an exercise. No, it was
too close,’ Parsons said.

Over 200 candidates were considered in the review process,

 

l

John D. Wilson, right, answers a reporter’s question on coeduca-
tion at a press conference Wednesday, Sept. 1. James Ballengee,
right, announced at the conference that the W&L board of trustees

which started when President Robert E.R. Huntley announced in

February that he would step down after a massive ten-year

development program that raised $70 million for W&L. Huntley has
held the post since 1968 and has said that he wishes to leave office at
the end of the calendar year.

Wilson pians to begin his duties on Feb. 1, 1983.

Wilson is a figure not unknown in this area. The Roanoke Times &
World News ran an editorial .Jednesday noting Wilson’s skill in
handling reporters’ questions at the press conference a week
before:

“That’s not surprising, since Wilson is an experienced ad-
ministrator with a thorough knowledge of higher education in
Virginia and in the nation.

“For the past seven years, he has been the No. 2 man at Tech
behind President William Lavery. Wilson has been the chief officer
responsible for the university’s academic life.”

Wilson has turned down the presidency of Michigan State Univer-
sity, his alma mater, and a chancellorship position at the Universi-
ty of Virginia. Before accepting the position at VPI, Wilson had
been president of Wells College (for women) in Aurora, N.Y., for
seven years.

A native of Lapeer, Mich., Wilson received a B.A. degree in
history with high honor from Michigan State, where he was elected
to both Phi Kappa Phi, an honorary scholarship society, and Phi
Alpha Theta (a history honor) society. He was also president of his
student body.

At Michigan State, Wilson was a standout athlete, playing defen-
sive halfback on the 1952 Michigan State team that won the national
championship.

Following his graduation, Wilson attended Oxford University in
England as a Rhodes Scholar. There he received his M.A.

His administrative experience began in 1959 when he served as
assistant to the vice president of academic affairs and then assis-
tant to the president of State University of New York. In 1963 he
returned to Michigan State as director of the honors college.

Wilson received his Ph.D. in Elizabethan Literature in 1967 at
Michigan State, where between 1965 and 1968, Wilson taught
English.

Wilson and his wife Anne Veronica have four children: Stephen, |

22; Anthony, 20; Patrick, 18; and Sara, 14.

     

elected Wilson to succeed President Robert E.R. Huntley. (photo
by Pat Hinely, W&L)

 

 

 

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

Inside

 

° Police

trials end:
Seven convicted,
two acquitted,p.3

®Wilson on

liberal arts: p.

‘Quality means a

4

first rate faculty’

°A Ring-tum
what? p.2

° Minks on the
rush trail:

James Henderson:

In Memoriam

In all flourishing institutions,
there are people who keep the
mechanisms _ functioning
smoothly and in balance. They
are usually off-stage, unknown
to most participants. But
without them the machinery
jerks along and even stalls.

Such a person was James
Henderson, who worked in the
Co-op building. Most of his wak-
ing hours for the past 26 years
were spent within the maze of
its complex architecture. He
and only he, knew where
everything was; he delivered
supplies and equipment on time
to the proper locations; and, ex-
pert mechanic that he was, he
fixed everything from cars to
clocks that quit.

James was independent of
thought, witty and, on occasion,
humorously cantankerous. He
was a kind man. He died where
he had thouroughly lived. We in
the Co-op building don’t know
what we will do without him.

Betty E. Munger, manager
W&L Bookstore

 
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982

Opinion

 

 

 

 

Editors of the Ring-tum Phi for 1900-1901

What the hell’s a Ring-tum Phi*

(Reprinted from the Ring-
tum Phi of Dec. 5, 1967.)

Come back with us now to the
days when telephones (Lex-
ington had all of 68 of them, an
advertisement boasted) were
known as “up-to-date electric
call bells.”’ 1897.

Back when stealing a bell-
clapper was called ‘‘a naughty

one’s frolic,’ in the same year:

that the New York Post confer-
red on Lexington (we’re
serious) the title ‘‘Athens of the
South’’ — there came into being
a small weekly newspaper,
published ‘‘by the students for
the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity community.”’

They named it after the most
popular of that University’s
football cheers:
Phi.’’

“Coincident with the ad-
ministration of President
Wilson begins the career of a
new publication at Washington
and Lee, the Ring-tum Phi,”’
noted the Collegian, a
magazine. ‘“‘The Ring-tum Phi
is a weekly journal and presents
a pleasing appearance. It meets
a distinct need in the University
and relieves the Collegian of
what formerly has tended to
clog and retard.”

Literary Magazine

“The Collegian is primarily a
literary magazine, and when
the editors heretofore were
forced to cram in a limitless
number of locals, they always
bewailed the dismal incongrui-
ty. Henceforth, we rejoice to
say, the Collegian is freed'from
matters of this kind, and will
not be compelled to try to serve
two ends at once....

“Gentlemen of the Ring-tum
Phi, you have our best wishes.
Gentlemen of the Ring-tum Phi,
we give you our sincerest
thanks. Students of W. and L.,
we congratulate you on the ad-

“Ring-tum-

vent of the long needed week-
ly!”

The year was 1897. The
Southern Collegian was still a
high-quality magazine, and was
published by the Graham
Literary Society. The Ring-tum

Phi was supposed to be a

somewhat lighter, perhaps even
ribald, complement to the Col-
legian.

Eighteen and ninety-seven.
The year the football coach had
to send away for a special
noseguard ‘“‘to protect the col-
ossal proboscis which accom-
panies Mr. Fitzhugh’s
countenance.” (‘‘Mr. Fitzhugh
was a student; everybody then
was a Mister, Doctor, Professor
or Reverend.”’)

Scandalous Verse

Eighteen and ninety-seven.
The year of the Great ‘‘Hell’’
Scandal. It seems the very first
editor-in-chief, George
Houston, in the fourth issue of
the neophyte newspaper,
published a column of ‘‘Football
Songs,” one of which concluded
with this verse:

Each other’s back, boys,
Has got a knack, boys,
For making gains, sir,
Round the end.

And it’s asin, sir,

For Oberlin, sir (Oberlin being
a W&L player),

To buck the VMI boys’ line so
awful hard.

Then join the yell, boys,
And yell like hell, boys,
Sure enough.

To W&L U., boys,
And football, too, boys,
Let’s give a rousing, rumbling,
roaring football yell.
Ring-tum Phi, stickeri bum,
&c, &c.
Well, hell broke loose. The
next issue, an incensed letter-
to-the-editor writer (nothing

new under the sun) said:

“There appeared in the col-
umns of the Ring-tum Phi, last
week, a song which, to the
thoughtful person, had very lit-
tle to recommend it....The only
thing that I can see that would
have recommended it to the
editorial eye is the little smack
of naughtiness which makes the
first rhyme in the last verse.

“The Editor seems to be filled
with pride to even know the
author; he puts the verse in the
first column of his newspaper,
and writes an editorial com-
mending it as ‘especially good.’
He says the words tire the voice
very little.

“Now everyone who knows
anything of the subject, knows
that the sound of that ‘h’ has a
very rasping effect on the vocal
chords. How much better it
would have been had the line
read: ‘And yell right well,
boys.’ It would have sounded
better, been easier on the voice,
and would have saved the
writer and the Editor from
showing off their weakness.

“It can be admitted that, to
some eyes, there is something
worthy of admiration in a dark,
purple crime, but to bow before
a sinlet like this is weakness
personified.

“In the future let me suggest
that the Editor follow the path
of virtue. He will not only find it
pleasant, but may keep from
showing his lack of taste.
(Signed) -R.”’

‘R’’ intimidated Mr.
Houston, Who wouldn’t be in-
timidated if he were editing a
brand-new paper, that nobody,
not even students, had ever
heard of, named the Ring-tum
Phi, and somebody comes along
and accused him of printing ‘‘a
sinlet”’ on his front page?

 

 

Anew Phi

In 1897, W&L had a new president — named Wilson — and a new
weekly journal, the Ring-tum Phi. Eighty-five years later, we have
another new president — named Wilson — and a new Phi.

The small changes are already evident; the real impact of our
new approach will grow throughout the fall term. This is the
earliest Phi in recent memory, the humble product of News Editor
John Cleghorn, Business Manager Steve Perry, Managing Editor
Evans Attwell and myself. Though meager, I hope it shows our
commitment to a professional graphic approach as well as our en-
thusiasm.

In September’s issues, look for: ,

FEATURES — Under Features Editor Scott Tilley, the new
Phi will have more interviews than ever. Our faculty, alumni and
student body offer limitless potential for interesting personality
profiles. It’s important for you to suggest subjects (thanks, but
we’re already working on President Huntley). Tilley can be reach-
ed at 463-6000.

NEWS — Of course the most important aspect of the Phi is its
coverage of campus events. News Editor Cleghorn has the most dif-
ficult job of all — writing as well as managing the reporting staff.
Cleghorn can be reached at 463-7568. Assisting him is Rick Swagler,
who will cover the Executive Committee.,

COLUMNS — All members of the W&L community are in-
vited to write columns. Humor pieces are most eagerly sought.
Political opinions should somehow relate to our school, our age
group, this region, etc. Those who remember Betty Munger’s col-
umn on Fancy Dress last year will be pleased to see that she is
again writing for us.

This year we have abandoned the anonymous editorial that ran
on the left side of every editorial page. Such anonymous editorials
encourage reckless writing and imply that there is some agree-
ment among Phi editors on a topic (which there never is). In its
place will be signed editorials, like this one, by Cleghorn, myself
and our experienced reporters.

However, this format provides ample room for students and pro-
fessors with something to say about Washington and Lee.

THE PHI LITERARY SUPPLEMENT — This esoteric title
applies to a monthly page of book reviews and commentary on the
arts at Washington and Lee.

What we are trying to do is get you involved in the newspaper and
thereby more involved in the school. The new Phi exists only to
strengthen the sense of unity that pervades W&L in the good years
and has, perhaps, evaded us in recent years.

We realized last year that people were turning to our editorial
page hoping to see someone embarrassed or some committee har-
pooned. Under Editor-in-Chief Bill Whalen, the Phi took a less an-
tagonistic stance toward the Executive Committee than the year
before. We hope that E.C. subcommittees will take advantage of
the Phi as a forum and a way of reaching potential members.

The Phi is not giving up the aggressive approach to news that
seniors remember from the days of editors Randy Smith and John
Billmyre. We will continue to follow every story until all the facts
are on the table, as we did last year with the Interfraternity Council
study of a possibly delayed Rush.

Our first priority, finally, is accesibility. If you feel you can con-
tribute to the Phi, and want to, let us know. There will be an
organizational meeting for writers and photographers in Fairfax
Lounge in the Student Center Tuesday, Sept. 14, at7 p.m.

If you'd like to talk to me about the Phi, I can be reached in our of-
fice (463-9111, ext. 373 or in room 129 of Davis Dormitory
(463-9306). You are already involved. Make it count for something.

Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The

 

» Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum

Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

7

Me ee ee Wi eee Todd Smith
PUOMIOES TEDBOIIS occ cece cc cecedadoccecesasesccovceseubecsss Steve Perry
eee ee Evans Attwell
Pe INN 6 60.06.0065 055227 080000 CROCE EETTIi CO) Oat bcdas John Cleghorn
POE ONO i's io eee Fes CONNIE eeeeeeredeevees G. Bruce Potter
Pe MN ks Kick) ek ess sth ences B. Scott Tilley
IIE o.oo. 9.0:0.0.0:0005855 0) 00000000 0058058888 Rick Swagler, Bill Roberts,

Charles Alcorn

 

 

 

 
Seven convicted as police trials end

by John Cleghorn

Following the indictments of
thirteen acting and former
members of the Lexington
police force last spring for
alleged involvement in a police
theft ring, trials have continued
throughout the summer
resulting in six former officers
serving jail sentences, one of-
ficer on probation, two officers
being tried and acquitted, two
other cases ending in hung
juries and two cases being drop-
ped by prosecuting com-
monwealth attorney Beverly C.
“John” Read.

“The remaining charges
against five former and
suspended officers were drop-
ped in the Rockbridge circuit
court last Wednesday and no
other charges are expected to
be pressed.

Read explained, saying, ‘‘The
results in those trials make it
clear that convictions cannot be
obtained in the remaining five
cases.”

Read’s final statment to the
circuit court contained the
following rationale for ending
the trials: “It would be fun-
damentally unfair and expen-
sive and unfortunate for our
community to continue the pro-
secutions for the sole purpose of
placing criminal evidence in a
public forum.

“It would be better. and more
efficient to remit these matters
to Chief Kirby and the City of
Lexington, and to Sheriff
Reynolds and the County of
Rockbridge for administrative
disposition. Such ad-
ministrative action does not re-
quire ‘proof beyond a
reasonable doubt’ as in a
criminal prosecution; further-
more, acts of criminal wrongdo-
ing may be considered even
though those crimes were bar-
red for criminal prosecution.

“I shall make available all
material evidence in my posses-
sion to assist them in this task
and hope they will see fit to read
all the statements from the in-
vestigation, to interview key
witnesses and to use available
techniques, such as polygraphs,
to insure that only those officers

 

Lexington
Lighting

Your

 

Study Lamp
Headquarters

5 W. Washington St.
463-9338

 

 

 

 

 

 

fully qualified are reinstated as
law enforcement officers.”’

Of the five cases involving ac-
ting officers, two ended in ac-
quittals, two in hung juries and
one in a conviction.

Suspended officer William
Knick, tried for twelvc charges
of involvement with the alleged
theft ring including statutory
burglary, receiving stolen
goods, conspiracy, grand
larceny and petit larceny,was
found not guilty last week.
Knick has since shown intent to
resign from the force, chiefly
for medical reasons.

Officer J.K. Colbert, indicted
for petit larceny for allegedly
stealing a car battery, was also
found not guilty this month and
will be investigated for
reinstatement to the force.

Suspended officers Tony
Clark and Richard Wright, both
indicted on charges of statutory
burglary, conspiracy, and petit
larceny will also be considered
for reinstatement to the police
force after their trials ended in
hung juries.

The fifth acting police officer
to be indicted, Donald Stub-
blefield, was convicted on
charges of petit larceny and
was sentenced to a_ twelve
month jail term.

Although Lexington Police
Chief James Kirby is on vaca-
tion this week, acting police
chief Lieutenant B.M. Beard
was reached for questioning.
Beard said that the investiga-
tion of suspended officer Col-
bert is already underway.
Beard was unsure how long the
investigations would continue.

State police investigators
have offered to supply a lie
detector machine, or poly-
graph, to be used in the in-
vestigations but Beard did not
know if Chief Kirby is planning
to make it a part of his in-
vestigations.

In the case involving Carl

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

Shoes, Clothing
& Accessories

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

 

 

 

 

 

r CRAFTS PLUS, INC. A

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES i
Open Mon.-Fri. 10-5; Sat. 10-4 4
4 31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355 i

Ba car cscs a ss OD DS OD DD OD em Ee ea em en

Emore of the Rockbridge Coun-
ty Sheriff's Department, who
was indicted for allegedly
receiving stolen goods, the
charges were dropped, as were
the charges against Lexington
Police officer Timmy Coleman.
In each of the cases against
former Lexington police of-
ficers a conviction resulted.and
a jail term ensucd,Jack Purvis,
John Moore, Danny Moore,
Wayne Rhodenizer,and Marvin
Hamilton, a state trooper, all
received sentences ranging
from eight months to two five-
year’prison terms for crimes of

conspiracy. ;
Members of the Buena Vista

Police Force and the Rock-
bridge County Sheriff’s Depart-
ment have been working in
their off time to assist the short-
handed Lexington force while
the suspended officers have
undergone trials and investiga-
tions.

The size of the Lexington
Police force is usually around 14
members according to Lieute-
nant Beard. At the time of the
initial indictments, the force
numbered 13 officers, five of
which were indicted.

Former Lexington officer
Barry Flint, whose cooperation
with the state police in-
vestigators began the long in-
vestigations into the theft ring
last spring, received immunity
from some of the charges
against him and is presently on
probation.

When asked if he was
satisfied with the end of the
criminal prosecutions Lex-
ington Mayor Charles Phillips
replied, ‘‘There’s no question
that we’re pleased with the end
of the investigations. It has
been a long and difficult six
months for everybody.”’

Mayor Phillips noted however
that the ordeal will not be over
until the police reinstatement is
finished and the police force is
at full strength.

The College Town Shop

“We Need You”

See us for a super selection in:

¢ Long Sleeve Shirts — Muted Plaids
¢ Washable Cotton Cords: $27%-$30
¢ Button Down Chamois Shirts

The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982, Page 3

SPREE aH IE RP er ARN SE EIEN PTE PE ONSEN TSP ESS OE SEA TE SOI ESE A a A RR Te ern
SSE ELIT ERS RES ELON ELE NE EN ELE LE LONE TEL TER ION IE TE I REEL NATE EMER ATES ESI I NOTE BN TEGAN EER ER RETR HE

 

 

Reeves Center opens

“The China Trade: Currents
and Cross Currents of Taste,”
and several of the sessions will

Four days of private lectures
will accompany Saturday’s
opening of the newly renovated
and renamed Reeves Center for
Research and Exhibition of
Porcelain and Paintings.

The opening ceremony will
begin at 1:45 p.m. on the front
steps of what was Tucker Hall
Annex until last year. The
building, which dates back to
the 1840s, sits on the north end
of the Colonnade.

The lectures are part of a
four-day meeting of the
Decorative Arts Trust which,
beginning today, is expected to
draw 200 students collectors,
curators and dealers of
decorative art.

The theme of the meeting is

involve discussions of
Washington and Lee’s Reeves
Collection of Chinese export
porcelain.

The Reeves Center houses the
study collection of 18th, 19th and
20th century ceramics given to
Washington and Lee in 1967 by
Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D.
Reeves of Rhode Island. Reeves
was a 1927 graduate of the W&L
law school.

Paintings and watercolors by
Mrs. Reeves, who signed most
of her paintings with her
maiden name, Louise Her-
reshoff, will hang in the center.

 

 

 

Calendar

Friday, Sept. 10.
All Day — Upperclassmen Matriculate: Payne Hall.
Saturday, Sept. 11
1:45 p.m. — Opening Ceremonies: Reeves Center.
Sunday, Sept. 12
12 - 5 p.m. — Skylark Open House and Family Picnic: for the

Dniversity Community.

Monday, Sept. 13

Undergraduate classes begin.

Through Oct. 4 — ‘The American Scene,” Early 20th Century
Prints from the Museum of Modern Art. DuPont Gallery.

111 W. Nelson St.

¢ New Colors in Rugby Shirts

—HOUSE CHARGE ACCOUNTS—VISA— MASTER CHARGE—

“We Want You”

DL44.4.4.4.4.4.4.5.4. 4.2
POO OOOO OCC COC S

$6344.4.4.4.5.4.4.44.4.5.4.2
OOOO CCC CCC CCC CS

 

S66 LDA44444.44.4.4.4.4 4444.4...
SS SSS PSC CC CSCO C OOOO PS
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982

 

Transcript of Wilson press conference

Reproduced here
is the first half of
a transcript of
John D. Wilson’s
remarks ata
news conference
Wednesday, Sept.
1, at which he was
named to succeed
President Robert
E.R. Huntley at
Washington and
Lee University.

Space and dead-
line restrictions
demand that the
rest of the
Wilson’s remarks
be run ata later
date.

“IT needn’t take long to tell those of you who are here how
gratified I am, how very pleased the whole Wilson family is, to have
this invitation extended to us. We accept with great pleasure, witha
sense of adventure and hope for the future. It’s a venerable, great
institution, and we’re really deeply appreciative of the chance to be
associated with it.”’

“The transition from Blacksburg to Lexington is a 90-minute
ransition by U.S. 81. It will take us some time, however, to make
hat move, and I fully look forward to being in residence here
myself, with my wife and my daughter coming back and forth for
the spring until we can all be together as soon as Sarah finishes that
first year in high school. So we look forward to it very much in-

Question: Dr. Wilson, with the apparently declining revenue
coming out of the federal government student aid programs, do you
see doing anything to boost student aid programs here at W&L
itself?

Dr. Wilson: Yes, well I think it is a matter of serious concern. The
escalating cost of private education which we’ve experienced over
the past 20 years — we hope, for one, Charles (Hite, Roanoke Times
& World News), that that will be able to taper off just a bit — but
there is no more important side of an endowment portfolio of a
private institution than its scholarship endowment.”

“I’m not, I’ll be frank to say, especially acquainted yet with the
alignment in the Washington and Lee endowment, but I think stu-
dent aid has got to be a priority. We have to make the distinctive
educational opportunity that this institution represents available to
young men of talent, and to try to do that without special concern
for socio-economic conditions. And that does mean that student
financial aid will be an important part of the future, as it has been
of the past.”

Question: Washington and Lee is in a very competitive position
as far as faculty salaries. Do you see the university being able to
continue that in the future? You’re coming off a very successful
fund-raising campaign. Are you going to be in pretty good shape for
that, do you think?

Dr. Wilson: Charles. you’re asking questions that are prophetic
in character. I certainly hope so. There could be nothing more im-
portant than maintaining the quality of this faculty. It’s an extraor-
dinary faculty. I made as many discreet inquiries as I could on my
end, without making it apparent to the Roanoke Times that I’d been
extended the possibility of an invitation here, about the quality of
the faculty, because this, obviously, is the starting point.
Washington and Lee can be very, very proud of the teaching men
and women — the scholar teachers — who have been assembled
here. And to attract successors and to retain those currently on this
staff will be the first priority of the university. And I’’m sure that’s
going to take increasing effort, increasing endowment.”

“I’m afraid that Dr. Huntley is going to be a very difficult man to
follow. Everyone in this room appreciates that. Everyone in higher
education appreciates that. The 67 million dollars was an extraor-
dinary, successful accomplishment for this university, with the
board (of trustees) and Bob, Farris (Hotchkiss, director of develop-
ment) and all others, faculty, who made that possible. I fear it can’t
stop, that that challenge will be here. It’s been before this institu-
tion for over 200 years and it will continue to be a responsibility. I
will have to make such contributions as I can. But we’ll never be

we +

— MUSIC THIS WEEK —

Thurs.
Fri.
Sat.

The Monarchs
Halls of Grass

Charisma
463-9331

 

free of the obligation to provide the financial base for a first rate in-
stitution.”

“There has developed of late a literature of euphoria about hard
times. I think it’s — I maybe put that badly — but as we look at
demographic decline and the potential decline in enrollments in
private institutions, and as the federal government has con-
spicuously withdrawn from some elements of support of higher
education, and retrenchment and reallocation and so on become
the watchwords of higher education, there has developed a kind of
counter-theme of ‘Oh, good, this is a wonderful opportunity to con-
centrate upon quality, that we don’t have to worry about quantity
anymore.”’

‘7 think there’s a terrible bit of self-deception involved in that,
because, unless we redefine quality in some superficial way, we
cannot escape the fact that quality costs money.”’

“Quality means, in the Washington and Lee context, a first-rate
faculty, it means first-rate students, who when necessary can be
helped with financial aid, it means good equipment in our
laboratories, it means a library acquisition budget that makes
sense, it means a civilized faculty-student ratio, so that teaching
and learning can go forward, it means maintaining a campus of ex-
traordinary beauty and historical significance — and these things
are not cheap. You cannot do this while resources are decilining.
We have a first obligation to protect that kind of quality. And that
will continue to ask of us all extraordinary support for a very
distinctive institution that warrants it.”

Question: How do you envision your role at Washington and Lee
and the direction in which Washington and Lee will move in the
future, after the takeover?

Dr. Wilson: Well, my first obligation and my first pleasure will be
to come to know the people of much better than I now do. I hope,
over the course of the fall, to make visits on weekends when I can to
become acquainted with the administrative officers, the staff of the
university, and especially to begin the task of coming to know the
faculty, and to know the work of individual members of the faculty
and to get a sense of the rhythm of the place. I don’t come to this
university with some blueprint in my back pocket. It would be a
presumptuous act to suppose that I know the future or that I can
predict the future of this university.’’

“I think here we have the great resource of 200 years and more of
tradition, of a sense of quality, of a sense of style, and the first
obligation will be to protect that, to make sure that does not erode.”

“But in terms of developing the intellectual resources of the
university, what new fields will come about — you know, intellec-
tual work is hard to predict. It’s awfully hard to say today that if ac-
quatic ecology, 10 or 15 years ago, was an exciting subject, what
tomorrow’s exciting subject will be. I have some notions about that,
the faculty will have some notions about that, and part of the task of
a university administration is to sense that, to try to sense the good
people, the good minds, who have the ideas that will shape the
future, and then to make sure, in quiet ways, the resources are
there to cultivate them.”’

“It’s kind of a simple kerosene theory of university adminisira-
tion, perhaps: if you see a bright spot, throw kerosene on it, step
back. But in a way I think that’s truly what we ought to be about.”

“The university administration can serve best when it aids in the
recruitment and retention of a first-rate faculty and student body,

/

Welcome New & Returning Students

ns p

$

TRAVEL
Seven ine

NO CHARGE FOR
ANY SERVICES

19 SOUTH MAIN
LEXINGTON, VA.
463-2197

For all your travel arrangements; ca
Lexington’s professional travel agenc
The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982, Page 5

Sf PIERS SS REEL IOS I LOANS LOSE SELLE NEEDS SELLE EES ELLE LLL LALLA LEE DEE LEE L ERLE LL LA LALBBDLL.LALLERL ALPEN LLBLLIALE LAAN LE LEAL LIE
i CA GE ESE TET OES TL EELS SRE TENE EOL IE LIE LEE LES LILLIES LEE SELLE LEP DEEL LLL PELL LL LLL SELL IDEALS SSE SAAS ABELL LIE EE

and then spending most of its time removing impediments to the
work of those crucial constituencies of the university. I have some
general notions about where I think some exciting work will be go-
ing forward, but I’d rather wait, frankly, until I get a sense of the
faculty’s sense of that before we predict which way we might go.”’

Question: Dr. Wilson, W and L has a distinguished liberal arts
tradition. How do you see yourself fitting into that tradition?

Dr. Wilson: Well, 1 wouldn’t be here at all if I weren’t entirely
committed to a liberal arts education. I took my undergraduate
degree in history, with special interest in English and Russian
history. I did graduate work abroad and then in this country in
English literature. I think I know what the sciences are about, in a
generalist way, and I do include the sciences when I talk about the
liberal disciplines, and they do play a crucial role in the liberal
education of young people.”

“T think the sense of conviction I have about the value of liberal
arts comes out of what I would express, perhaps, as a peculiar,
maybe even the vicarious, the vicarious character of those fields.”’

‘‘We are born, ina sliver of time and space and culture. We come
out of backgrounds that are circumscribed by genetics and by en-
vironment. We live our 70 to 80 years on the planet in that cocoon of
culture and experience. And all that we know, of ourselves and the
world, if we lived only that life, would be very, very parochial in-
deed. And what I see the liberal arts and sciences as doing, at least
in one sense, is permitting us to enlarge to enlarge that life, to enter
different times, different cultures, live different lives. And
Hamlet’s fictional life is every bit as relevant as Elizabeth I’s
historical life. So we can be part of another experience and add to
our understanding of human nature.”

‘“‘And it seems to me that though there are no pat formulas for

  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
     
   
     
 
      
   
      
      
    

John D. Wilson (photo by Pat
Hinely, W&L)

&
SUITS BY:

Deansgate
John Peel
Gant
Haspel

 

     
   
   

SPORTCOATS

human happiness, the first obligation we have to ourselves and to
our students is to make them understand that self-knowledge is
ultimately the key to any chance we might have for a glimpse of
human happiness. And I cannot conceive of reaching adulthood
with any full sense of that without very deep exposure to the liberal
disciplines.”

“There are many other things that are cultivated by the liberal
experience. To be sure, we do hope to sharpen intellectual skills
along those several pathways. But essentially what we’re doing is
expanding each student’s knowledge of himself by having him live
human experiences that other wise would be totally inaccessible to
him or to her, And I think that’s absolutely a vital task, perhaps the
most crucial four years in the development of a mature and
thoughtful human being.”’

There’s a notion purveyed that it’s all over in the first 18 months,
I mean, that the human being is fixed and shaped in that
time, but I believe that not to be true. I think at 22, I was a very dif-
ferent person from the callow youth who wanted to be a sports-
writer — a very honorable, I thought, and I mean that seriously,
choice at the time, but that was not, at 22, my vision of the world. At
18, it very clearly was. And some very important things happened
in that interlude, thanks to the intervention of some civilized people
who cared enough about me to help me to enlarge my sense of
myself, and of human possiblity.”

“The Detroit Free-Press lost a most ardent Tiger fan in the pro-
cess.” (Laughter. )

Question: Dr. Wilson, do you forsee in any time during your
tenure the admission of women as undergraduates?

Dr. Wilson: I wondered when we would get to that. (Laughter)
Those of you who have taken a look at my biographical outline will
know that I spent seven years, very nearly seven years as president
of a college for women. And that was a very, very rewarding and in-
teresting tenure. I enjoyed it very much indeed. I went to Wells Col-
lege, though, I must say, in 1968 on the assumption that I was join-
ing a first-rate undergraduate college of the liberal arts and
sciences. I was not self-consciously associating myself with a
single-sexed college for women. If you think that was myopic, you
may be right.”

“But the point is in 1968 we weren’t terribly concerned with that
sort of thing. We had had a national experience which in turn had
built upon the experience in the West of hundreds of years of first-
rate university and collegiate education, most of which, in quality
places, had been gender specific. That’s sort of an antiseptic way to
put it. (Laughter) Had been single-sex. And the women’s colleges

that came along, thanks to Henry Wells, who had created the Wells-
Fargo Company, and Matthew Vassar, who I understand was a
great brewery mogul, or whatever, that these people were trying to
create a parallel opportunity for women which had been denied
them. And so some first-rate colleges for women developed in the
Northeast, first, and then in other sections of the country.”

“I think all of that made me, and I was very conscious of the
history of higher education in this country, to be sure, self-
counscious about that, so that I was a little baffled when, one after

SHOES BY:

Bass
American Gentleman
Clarks
Top-Sider

OUTERWEAR BY
Woolrich

Student Charge

RAINCOATS BY

London Fog Topsider
Special Selection of Izod Shirts 2 Price!

We are looking forward to seeing you.

 

another, the predominantly male colleges, exclusively male col
leges in most cases, began to form task forces and blue-ribbon com
mittees, and issuing in due course reports that contradicted the
success stories that each of those institutions had in one way or
another achieved.”’ :

“In effect they said, ‘It isn’t a natural experience that we pro.
vide, it isn’t natural to educate people to be without exposure in the
classroom to the other point of view, whichever way this went. So
we had developing a kind of new pedagogy that assumed somethin;:
narrow and twisted in the depravation of the other point of view.
Now I think there was an awful lot of mythology associated with
those reports. As I said, I think they contradicted institutional ex.
perience. And I believe that the coeducation issue, of course in the
early 70s it was still so new people weren’t sure how long it would
remain to be an issue, whether it was a fad, whether it was
something simply being talked about — I think that’s no longer the
case — clearly coeducation and the coeducationalization of male
colleges and female colleges has gone apace so that it’s almost a
given. But I think, in that sense, it’s passed out of the realm of
something we have to worry immediately about or think im-
mediately about.”’

“This university has been able to attract, it continues to be able
to attract first-rate students, and retain them, and to educate them
to become successful citizens of the larger world, and that seems to
me to be a useful mission.”

“And I don’t know enough about the ‘Washington and Lee ex-
perience,’ if I may put quotation marks around that phrase, to
know how much of it comes out of its gender, as it were, or how
much of it might change if women were admitted in equal numbers
to Washington and Lee. Obviously, I want to wait a time and get
some better sense of what that experience is before I offer any fur-
ther opinions on the subject.”

“I would say this: that we would not be in the position of ad-
vocating a change at this stage. I will not argue with the board (of
trustees) that we ought to contradict success. So we’ll look and see
how that goes. I do favor the education of women. I do find civiliz-
ing the society of men and women together. I do think the women’s
colleges played an important role, and continue to, and I especially
think it important that those colleges were able, when it was useful
to do so, to break down the stereotypical way of thinking about stu-
dent and field. When I was at Michigan State years ago, I
remember vividly the bright young woman in biochemistry who
said, ‘I can’t stand it anymore. It’s such a male province over
there. They patronize me. They don’t mean to but they patronize
me every time I come.’ It was a male province because
biochemistry was something men frequently chose, and women
frequently chose the arts and so on. And so you had a kind of cur-
riculum separation that I thought was really quite destructive. Now
again that’s pretty well behind us in coeducational places. We have
as many women enrolled at Virginia Tech, for example, in the col-
lege of engineering, or more, frankly, than we do in the college of
education or the college of human resources. So that’s all changed
in the last 10 or 15 years, and it’s very healthy that it should have.

SS SS a iii

Aluin-Benniz

Welcome Back:

Be sure to come by and look at our Fall Selections !

SWEATERS BY:

Deans
Woolrich

Izod

  

SHIRTS BY:

Sero
Woolrich
Izod

100% Cotton
Khaki

Master Charge

SO I I I PO lal ce er ee ee nd ere eal ae or need tee ase eed ee ered oe oe
-_—— ed —— —
pep lard ceed teed ted — ef

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

FRESHMINKS Romp

UNAWARE OF THE
MADNESS SOON TO

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

Seige
FRESHMINKS:
BE ON GUARD

 

 

 

 

 

~oanypengg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ TOOL |

He's FURNITURE )
: HK

ic
ES

 

 
 
  
 

  

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan

| | Loh Obfce Sunol JEWELERS
| @ henan oah fice eT Watches and

Jewelry Repai
4 _ Help For All Your Office Needs ei we
N ‘We order’’ GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
! Old Main Street Hand E & Class Rings
N Lexington, Va. 24450 HELEN DUKE en

(703) 463-4062 TED DUKE

 

 

11W. Nelson 463-2022 }

 

  
 
 

iF THEY SHOW OFF THE VACUU CULTIVATE SOMEONE IN THE DEMAND A BID IF You'RE
ener i S MIGHT SE A TEST HOUSE WHO CAN COACH YOU. |A_ LEGACY. 7 ices
Do NOT TURN ITON. , AP AN
F i Sa. HOW AMA ONCL#5
i HAVING re AND ERE GAMMA TAU?
ETING WOMEN.
ae HERE, TALK OU ston y
vg TO PETUNIA. C NX OOODDE w="
~ ae -~_
NN Ay Aahe “a ij
*)
Ol ARXN
i. (¥ oP Z,
DERY
= WY Al
THE BALL SESSION EXTENDING as BID | Tk may be Wrongs
ke ime accepting. it' iA.
| fa Mm ne prespenrg ‘but it's alrish
| u ;

 

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Serving Quality Foods to

Students, Alumni and Parents

for 50 Years.

 
 

 

 

 

An Angle of Vision by Betty Munger

Summer
ponderings

In June, when school closed and the students left, a
certain peace descended. We strolled across the cam-
pus, stopped to gossip and went about our business in
a more measured fashion. Urgent crises disap-
peared; the Summer Workshops brought relaxed peo-
ple to the campus and there was even a touch of
languor.

We, in the Bookstore, attended to housekeeping
chores. Inventories were checked; the University
auditors were coped with; and the place was put back
together again after the chaos of winter.

By July, however, a lull had set in. Book sales near-
ly zeroed out, and, in all honesty, things were
downright dull. We began to wonder: Did Tom get
that dream job in Yellowstone? Was Dick going to
make enough money to go abroad next Spring term?
How was Harry’s rocky romance working out? Sur-
prisingly, we began to miss the turbulence of 1300
students.

In August, the fall textbooks began to cascade down
the back chute, tens of cartons at a time. The
strenuous work set in: the unpacking, the pricing
(Good Lord, how the prices have jumped. Be warn-
ed!) and the shelving. We were looking toward the fall
and again wondering, had summer experiences of-
fered students expanded horizons and wider perspec-
_, tives? New Jokes? New Loves? stunning tans? Would
they be returning with a bit more intellectual curiosi-
ty as well as that perpetual pressure for better
grades? And what about the entering freshmen?
That’s easier: earnest, dazed at first, and quite laid
back. Wonder and excitement will be carefully con-
cealed.

A month or so ago, ‘‘The New Yorker” ran a car-
toon which is now posted in the Bookstore. It shows a
1968 hippie saying, ‘‘Wow -- Like Groovy,” and his
1982 coat-and-tied counterpart saying, ‘‘Gulp!”’

No doubt, the world of 1982 has a lot to swallow
hard about, but there is hope that this coming year
will have a little less “Gulp” and a touch more
‘6 ‘Wow ! 9

Welcome Back

The Drug Store of Personal Service
We will cash your checks
(Student I.D. please)
Make Change for your laundry machines
We appreciate your patronage

Charge Accounts Invited
Prescriptions — Health and Beauty Aids
Soft and Hard Contact Lens Supplies }
Greeting Cards and Wrap

C ,
: 17 S. MAIN STREET

PHONE (703) 463-2373

 

Banned books
on display

The bookstore manager
usually displays dictionaries
and other reference books for
the first weeks of class, but this
year she is using her display
table for a political message.

Betty Munger is showing off
banned books.

The books range from ‘‘Alice
in Wonderland” to ‘‘The Adven-
tures of Huckleberry Finn’’ to
“The Catcher in the Rye.’’ And
around the books Mrs. Munger
has wrapped heavy chains and
padlocks.

Mrs. Munger used a list of
banned books provided by the
National Association of College
Stores, and the American
Booksellers and American
Libray Associations. These
three groups have a combined
membership of more than
50,000, Mrs. Munger said.

The associations ‘‘believe
that a free people, placing a
high value on the freedoms of
speech and thought, will not
abrogate its freedom of choice
in reading matter,” according
to a press release.

,

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982, Page 7

Cliff Wargellin

Dormitory.
Pat Hinely, W&L)

VARNER & POLE

115 S. Main St.
For your extra pieces of furniture

a Sc ae

Student Activities Board...
Continues

TUESDAYS
IN THE PIT

 

 

 

Sept.14 Root Boy Slim
Sept. 21 Brice Street
Sept. 28 The Movies

MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
WIDE SCREEN TV

DALLAS vs. PITTSBURG
9:00 P.M.
HOT DOGS

2/$1°°

EP OOD O > OEE 0-0 <>) OEE 0 E> 0-0-0 ED 0-<EED-0-<EED-0 ED (<0 <---> (0) 0-0

i

A long way
from home

and

parents John and Altha
of Birmingham, Mich.,
move into Graham-Lees
(photo by

 

|

S(O D0 <()-<O-<0 <( <0 () <-(:) <-- )

i
|
|
!
| Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1982
| ,
|
|
|
ah LEXINGTON...
|
|
:
|
|
|
|
|

IT ALL HAPPENS ON THE CORNER?

 

Nelson & Jefferson St. |
 

VOLUME LXXXII NUMBER2

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia September 16, 1982

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON. VA. 24450

SEP 17 1982

 

MOM PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT WO. 36

 

 

 

Noise violation dispute settled

by Rob Schlegel
and John Cleghorn

Thanks to a meeting involving Interfraternity Council President
Mason Ellerbe, Chi Psi Danny Einstein, and Lexington police
Lieutenant Bruce Beard, there is now an agreement concerning
noise violations for fraternity houses.

At the September 14 meeting of the IFC, both Einstein and
Ellerbe presented the results of the previous day’s meeting with
Beard.

Lexington police officers have a three step format to follow for
noise violations. First, the officers will not visit a fraternity house
unless there is a citizen’s complaint or unless they can hear the
music at least 50 feet from the house. Secondly, if there is a com-
plaint, the particular officer will give the fraternity a written warn-
ing. It will be signed by four members of the fraternity whose
names will be turned into the IFC. Finally, if there is no response to
the warning, a violation will be the next course of action.

“We'll give a little and they’ll give a little,” said IFC Treasurer
Emery Ellinger. ‘‘The IFC has come to an agreement with the
townspeople and with the police. It’s a friendly situation.”

The new rule differs greatly from previous rules concerning
noise violations, which were left vague and resulted in numerous
misunderstandings between fraternities and the local police.

Lt. Beard stressed the point to Einstein and Ellerbe that if the
W&L fraternities abuse this priviledge, they will lose it. According
to Ellerbe, Beard seemed quite sincere in agreeing with this plan.

The Lexington police officer also asked that the fraternities try to

keep townspeople out of their parties. In addition he suggested that
the fraternities talk to any neighbors who might complain about
noise from a party and try to settle things before a party takes
place.
- Another problem brought up at this Monday meeting was park-
ing. A number of cars have been towed for parking violations ac-
cording to Beard. Much of the problem is caused by girls from the
surrounding schools, Ellerbe noted. Letters will be sent to these
schools informing girls of the parking regulations in Lexington.

The meeting between the two fraternity representatives and
Beard was arranged in order to smooth over difficulties between
W&L fraternities and the Lexington community. Chi Psi President

 

Sunday night and the hourly repeat of a small cannon signaled
fraternity members to shout out freshmen names, and lead them
off to a soda-pop social with the brothers, By the fourth and fifth

was present in large part because his fraternity had a party
mistakenly shut down by the Lexington police last spring.

In disciplinary business, the IFC penalized Kappa Alpha for
disobeying a band rule during Rush last week. According to Steve
Jones, IFC Vice-President, KA contracted bands for Thursday,
Sept.9, and the following Saturday, Sept. 11, which violates the IFC
specification that fraternities are allowed only one band a week
during Rush.

Kappa Alpha received a fine of $150 and two weeks social proba-
tion to begin the Monday following Parents’ weekend, Oct.23.

“The rule was made clear,” explained Jones, ‘‘It seemed to be
clear to all the other fraternities but not to KA. It was an honest
mistake but it was a mistake and we treated it as such.”

KA is the first house to be penalized by the IFC thus far in Rush.

In other matters, the IFC decided to hire someone to pick up
trash in front of fraternities after parties for the remainder of rush
as townspeople had complained of the litter.

Todd Smith, Editor in Chief of the Ring-tum Phi, spoke in front of
the IFC to gather support for his idea of publishing fraternity ex-
penses for freshmen in the newspaper. Smith expressed intention to
write a paragraph or two for each particular fraternity explaining
the costs and what they pay for.

The IFC opposed this idea because it would create a stigma to be
attached to prices, and it would be difficult to describe what a
freshman got for his money. It was suggested that Smith write an
editorial advising freshmen during Rush to ask the fraternity
members about the exact expenses. In addition it was noted that in
many houses, freshmen may join even if they cannot pay the full
expense.

Dean Dan Murphy, in charge of fraternity affairs, mentioned
that he received a call from Southern Seminary concerning signs
advertising for fraternitiy parties. Murphy suggested that the signs
be placed in proper places such as bulletin boards. Murp also
stressed that liquor should not be advertised on these signs because
it might attract ABC officials to the parties.

As for rush, 352 students registered this fall. The IFC members
strongly supported this year’s format involving open contact before

Rush began. It was noted that students signed up for fewer open
houses than last year.

open houses, the crowd of freshmen and the voices of the fratminks
were noticeably thin. (Phi photo by David Sprunt, more Rush
photos, page 2)

Text
prices
soar

by Alan Armitage

With a jump in book prices
and an over-all increase in the
number of books assigned by
the professors, the Washington
and Lee Bookstore has become
an expensive place to visit.

The price of books published
by the major publishing com-
panies increased by 14.8% in the
calendar year ending Dec. 31,
1981, according to Mrs. Betty
Munger, manager of the book-
store.

Technical books for the
science courses have increased
in price more rapidly than other
books, Mrs. Munger said, but
students taking other courses
are not getting away any
cheaper.

“The Calculus book which I
bought for $23.95 two years ago
now costs $32.90,’’ said junior
Paul Levy, who works in the
bookstore. ‘‘But someone tak-
ing an English course with 5 or 6
paperbacks at $6.00 apiece is
going to end up paying the same
amount for his books.”’

In the past many students
have been able to find used
books which they could borrow
or buy from other students. This
year, though, that will not be as
viable an alternative. ‘Many of
the Chemistry, Economics, and
Religion texts, as well as
others, are new editions,”’ said
Nick Leitch, another junior who
works in the _ bookstore.

Mrs. Munger and Levy said
the bookstore had done between
$60,000 and $70,000 in business
on Monday alone, although
most students had not purchas-
ed all their books. ‘‘Many of the
students I saw today paid from
$110 to $130 for all their books,”’
said Levy.

Many students are upset by
the high prices they have to pay
for their books, but do not
understand that the bookstore
does not generally make a pro-
fit on a year-to-year basis, Mrs.
Munger said. The bookstore did
make a profit last year, but ran
a deficit in 1980-81. ‘The record
store (now defunct) hurt us two
years ago,”’ she said. “But we
made a profit last year from the
sale of Charles Flood’s book

(Lee, The Last Years,) and
that had nothing to do with
texts.”’

Another problem many stu-
dents face in the bookstore is
finding that a book they need is
sold out. Mrs. Munger said that
she tries to avoid that problem
every year and she still runs out
of some books. ‘‘Many pro-
fessors only guess at the
number of students they will
have in a specific course,’’ she
said, ‘‘and I have to take it from
there.”

So far though this year is go-
ing well. ‘‘We’ll just have to
wait and see,’”’ said Mrs
Munger.
e €
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982 Opin 10n
RARE RELLR Re SERENE OPA EERE NE SER MT IS AN

 

be OF

# Rush 1982

  
    

by Todd Smith

Rush is in the thick of confusion and excitement this week,
despite last year’s efforts by some to postpone the whole affair a
month or even a term. And it’s doing even better now that freshmen
are given a chance to see the fraternities before they must sign up
for open houses.

But the chance is still there for Rushees to get caught up in the
machinery.

It’s hard for me to imagine myself so naive as to sign up for open
houses in random order, unaware that only the first three were
really serious. That is, however, exactly what I did in the fall of
1979; and last year it was said that one freshman signed up in
alphabetical order.

Freshmen that don’t tune in get tuned out, more often than not. So
the onus is on them to take an aggressive and informed approach.

~Don’t let yourself be strung along. Out of common decency,
some fraternities will be nice to you even when they have no inten-
tion of giving you a bid. You will probably be able to tell how you
stand if you watch for hints and ask questions. —

~Don’t give up. There’s a house for most students who want to be
in a house. And sometimes that house doesn’t know it. I remember
one freshman who started lobbying my fraternity in an intense way
after Rush was over. Intensity is a rarety as most Rushees try to
act cool and uncommitted, but this mink got in.

~ Know the facts. Don’t be afraid to ask, “How much is this real-
ly going to cost me?”’ At some point during Rush, whether even
before getting a bid, go to the treasurer and get an accurate picture
of the price of brotherhood. Some houses will surprise you with
their reasonable rates, others will surprise you with the high cost of
partying. Just don’t be surprised after you have pledged.

Fraternities can help by having an itemized list of expenses to
show those Rushees who ask.

~And, finally, don’t let it all intimidate you. There are abuses,
and some freshmen are ‘“‘caught in the machinery,” but I have yet
to see serious maliciousness in Rush. Every house seriously wants
Rush to be successful and painless, and if freshmen take precau-
tions, ask questions and don’t take it all too seriously, it will be very
successful.

Ring-tum Phi

P.O. Box 899, Lexington, Va. 24450

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

WN iis 6 ig 6S Ce Re DERE NE E4 6 BEREAN eH ehe be rUborees Todd Smith

WAIT bb ciiy ceeded k kc cece Fhe CRer ee ra ee teepececegrececst Steve Perry

Te areee eee ay eT ee Tete rere Evans Attwell

PN ss bobs bar tiie liens cca rn deed heer ee eel eeieestneede John Cleghorn

PN ENO oi bi es Vee Peirce redte ii eeee clea ccegenitins G. Bruce Potter

Rush: Zeta Beta Tau brothers man a registra- Pomtures HOME... occ sist cccccceevecveesencecsesvossccevesteoves B. Scott Tilley

tion table in Gilliam quadrangle (top photo). RMN ices Ohishi iit ies ie Rick Swagler, Bill Roberts,

David Short (left) greets freshmen at Sigma a

i. by David Sprunt)

ge t in bene Claire Ps ders joins the Delts HORE PROURIMONOE 66s Finck id cess ccc valeoverpeenseedeceeescedaeas David Sprunt :
Sunday evening in Gilliam quad. (Phi photo by PUMAIOI ioe aioe ra secisene Ned Abbe, Robert Miller ) *
Todd Smith) Jeffery Lis, Eric Campbell i

 

 

    
    
      

     
    

TO YOU KNOW —~

oe ionn cf BUNNY'S NOT BND ot Teper BuT WHAT IF Y WANNA
WENT TOV.ES! TOO SMART, BUT ]] Weonc sine or _| SHE SAYS NO? 1 GO TOA
Just Good | 1 SuRE NEED A i} THe HORSE. 'SN'T/ SHE'D NEVER GOl\CooK-duT?

    

FRIENDS
HEE HEE (RUT ea
FRANCE WAS WONDE >

FUNNY? HEE Heel Out witH ME.

    
 
   

     

 

BY ToDD SMITH

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982, Page 3

 

 

 

 

Designed in the mid-1940s to house World War II veterans attend-
ing Washington and Lee, the Davidson Park apartments are being
demolished by the university. The barracks-like Davidson Park
group was used primarily to house married students. (Phi photo by
David Sprunt)

 

 

 

“A Man for All Seasons”’

The Washington and Lee University Theatre will hold auditions
for its first production of the season, ‘‘A Man for All Seasons,’”’ on
Sunday and Monday, Sept. 19 and 20. “‘A Man for All Seasons”
depicts English Lord Chancellor Thomas More’s struggle between
his Roman Catholic faith and allegiance to King Henry 8th.

The tryouts will be at 2 p.m. on Sunday, Sept. 19, and at 3 p.m. on
Monday, Sept. 20, in the University Theatre on the corner of Main
and Henry Streets. They are open to the public. There are roles for
11 men and three women.

Parents

Subscribe Now

 

 

 

 

 

 

CAMP UE MALE-FEMALE HOTTESY RASA UBCOMTRELLAD SEXUAL
wes RATIO HANGOUT RELEASE SUBSTANCE YEMPURATURE
Preppy Perfect The gates: All “Cow tipping”: NoDoz 130 degrees: a lot of
milkmaid © sorts of boys toppling somno- (Well, you can't smoldering at
e A “rollup.” lent bovines get busted.) an all-girl school
as N
N
N
nN

 

 
   

 

 

 

 

Burned by Playboy?

 

Reproduced from Playboy

Sweet Briar smoulders

by Bill Roberts
Sweet Briar College is described as ‘‘smolder-
ing’’ and ranked at 7th place among 20 colleges in
the October issue of Playboy magazine.
But a spokeswoman for the Amherst, Va., school
dismissed the article as inaccurate in its treat-
ment of Sweet Briar.

Playboy’s Associate Editor Kevin Cook
surveyed students at ten American colleges and
found that sexual attitudes have become more
permissive since the last survey in the 1960s.

But that survey did not include Sweet Briar, said
Janet Lowrey, the college’s public information
director.

The article, “Sex on Campus ’82,” features a

fold-out comic page in which The University of ©

Texas is ranked number one at ‘212 degrees: a
libidinous boil,” while Harvard University is 15th
at ‘‘72 degrees: just too stuffy to be fun.”

The page characterizes Sweet Briar girls as
‘‘preppie milk maids,” but rated them 7th at ‘130
degrees : a lot of smoldering at an all-girl school.”

“Sex Central” for Sweet Briar girls is the
University of Virginia and the hottest hang out on
campus is the UVa gates where all sorts of boys
“roll up’? (a reference to marijuana), the
magazine said.

to the Ring-tum Phi

Any parent who thinks his son is
going to write home once a week from
college is in for more of an education

than the son.

The Ring-tum Phi
Box 899
Lexington, Va. 24450

Yes, please enter my sub-
scription to the Ring-tum Phi.

| have enclosed $72.00

ee eT)

All issues
delivered right

to your mail box
every week of the

academic year for $172.00

Those who want to blow off steam at Sweet Briar
go ‘“‘cow tipping;’’ the art of toppling somnolent
bovines, according to the Playboy article.

This isn’t true, Lowrey said. .

“Cow tipping is sort of a legendary thing that
has been talked about but I don’t know of anyone
that has been cow tipping,’ Lowrey said. The
closest cows are at a dairy at Sweet Briar that pro-
vides the college with its milk and butter.

No Sweet Briar students were ever questioned
by Playboy and the campus has never been visited
by Playboy personnel, Lowrey said.

“‘We have talked to Mr. Kevin Cook, the author
of the article, and it appears that they sent out on-
ly 10 questionnaires,’ she said Sweet Briar was
not included in the survey.

“He did a lot of imagining and it wasn’t based on
any factual information;’’ Lowrey said.

According to Lowrey, Cook said he got the infor-
mation about cow tipping and “rolling up’”’ at the
gates from the ‘Yale Insider’s Guide to Colleges,”
a handbook of articles about American colleges
and written by students at Yale University.

As for the sexual temperature; that appears to
have come from rumors, Lowrey said.

“The administration is not really bothered with
it,”’ she said. “It’s not embarrassing in that we
feel it is just the way Playboy operates.”

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982

 

‘Excellence’ attracts history professor from Chapel Hill

Lamar Cecil Jr.
(W&L photo by Pat Hinely)

ee

Student Activities Board...
Continues

 

> O-<EED-0-<ED-0 <---> 0 <0 SD SD SD () SD 0) SD () SD () SD) GD () EDO

cS

 

TUESDAYS
IN THE PIT

The Cockpit

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

September 21st
Brice Street

Wide Screen TV

FOOTBALL
Every Monday Night

by B. Scott Tilley

Lamar Cecil Jr. teaned back in his chair, munched on a Lays
potato chip, and pondered the reasons he left the academically
prestigious University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to accept a
full professorship in the Washington and Lee History department.

“One reason is its size. At the University of North Carolina, I
would walk across campus and see hundreds and hundreds of
students and not a face that I recognized,’’ said Cecil, 50. ‘“‘With a
faculty equal to the size of the student body here, you did well to
know half of your colleagues.

“I also prefer undergraduate teaching to graduate. At Chapel
Hill, you find more and more of your time being spent with
graduate students. W&L is almost exclusively devoted to
undergraduates.

“So I wanted a small, undergraduate school, but what led me to
W&L particularly was the excellence of its reputation. There have
been some very distinguished professors of history — Professor
Jenks himself, Robert Paxton at Columbia, and Henry A. Turner at
Yale — and that was particularly interesting to me,”’ he said.

Cecil was born in Beaumont, Texas, but attended Episcopal High
School in Alexandria, Virginia. He returned west to receive his B.A.
from Rice University in Texas. He received his Ph.D. from Johns
Hopkins University in Baltimore where he also had his first
teaching job. He taught at Princeton University as well, before
joining the UNC staff in 1968.

He has written two books, ‘‘Albert Ballin: Business and Polics in
Imperial Germany,”” and “The German Diplomatic Service,
1871-1914."’ Another book, a biography of Wilhelm II, is in the
works.

Eight teachers have joined
the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity undergraduate faculty, and
three more have been appointed
to the W&L School of Law facul-

New teachers on the under-
graduate faculty are Peter W.
Bergstrom, assistant professor

of biology; Douglas A. Burns,
instructor in geology; John D.
i Parker, assistant professor of
history; Robert Lee Pour, in-
structor in mathematics; E.
Wyatt Prunty, visiting assistant
professor of English; Debora
Anne Rindge, instructor in fine
arts; Robert Richard Ripple,
assistant professor of military
science; and Larry M. Stene,
assistant professor of fine arts.

The new appointments in the
School of Law are John W. Lar-
son, visiting associate professor
of law; Toni M. Massaro, assis-
tant professor of law; Brian C.
Murchison, assistant professor
of law.

The university earlier an-
nounced the appointment of
Lamar Cecil Jr. as professor of
history. (See story this page. )

Peter W. Bergstrom
(biology) received the B.A.

degree from Bennington (Ver-
mont) College and the M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the Univer-

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

| need your head

 

in my business

9 South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. -6:00p.m.

‘I see him as one of the most fascinating characters in history,”’
said Cecil. ‘“‘While he was a most unattractive person, he had a
fascination, a sense of...evil. He was almost solely responsible for
World War I in an age where the affairs of the world were control-
led by a tiny handful of aristocratic kings and rulers. It seems
awesome how the personality of one man could affect so many
millions of people.”’ ,

Cecil will only be teaching two classes this term, a section of 101
and a class called the Renaissance. Winter term he will teach a new
class, the Reformation, and he will take over the classes on Russian
history at Jenks’ retirement next year. ‘‘Assuming you all like me
and let me stay,’’ he said with a laugh.

“‘T wanted the advantage of sharing (Jenks’) last year with him. I
will value the experience,”’ he said, explaining why he came a year
before the opening occurred . He said he doesn’t believe he is being
“‘primed”’ to replace Jenks as head of the department and added,
“That is not my intention.”’

Cecil has a wife and two daughters, 3 and 4. “I anticipate they are
going to love growing up here,”’ he said.

A daily swimmer, he has been impressed with the athletic
facilities here, as well as the library (‘‘a splendid undergraduate
collection’’), and the Alumni House coffee every morning.

Cecil said he also believes in the ideas of honor and chivalry that
are supposed to be exemplified by the Washington and Lee student.
He couldn’t comment on their validity though, since he has met few
students. ‘‘You’ll have to come back for a ‘before and after’ inter-

 

view,’’ he said.

sity of Chicago. He has taught
part-time at Loyola University
of Chicago and has assisted at
the University of Chicago and
the University of Illinois-
Chicago Circle.

Douglas A. Burns (geology)
received the B.S. degree from
Hope College and the M.S. from
the University of Virginia. He
has served as a teaching assis-
tant at the University of Virgin-
ia and at the Bermuda Biolog-

‘ical Station. He is the co-author
of three articles published in
scientific publications. His ap-
pointment is for one year,
replacing Frederic L. Schwab,
professor of geology, who will
be on leave. y

John David Parker (history)
received the B.A. from Baylor
University and the M.A. from
the University of Texas. He is a
Ph.D. candidate at the Univer-
sity of Washington, where he
served as a teaching assistant.
He received a Fulbright Grant
to Brazil in 1976-77. He has
published several translations
to or from Portuguese.

Robert Lee Pour
(mathematics) received the
B.S. from Bowling Green State
University and the M. A. from
the University of Virginia. He
has taught in secondary schools

Eleven join faculty

and also as a teaching assistant
at the University of Virginia
and as an instructor at Pied-
mont Virginia Community Col-
lege. His appointment is for one
year.

E. Wyatt Prunty (English)
received the B.A. from the
University of the South, the M.
A. from Johns Hopkins, and the
Ph.D. from Louisiana State
University, where he served as
an instructor in 1978-79. Since
September 1979, he has been
assistant professor of English
at Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute and State University. He
is the author of five articles in
scholarly publications, 85
poems in various periodicals,
and two books on poetry. His ap-
pointment is for one year,
replacing Dabney Stuart, pro-
fessor of English, who will be on

: leave.

Deborah Anne Rindge (fine
arts) received the B.A. from the
University of California, Santa
Barbara and the M.A. from
Ohio State University. She has
served as an instructor at the
University of Alabama in Birm-
ingham since 1980. She has
published several articles in
scholarly periodicals.

(continued on page 5)

SPP POD QAO IP IVP ODL LP LPP OVP LP LPP

 

DINERS CLUB 11:30 AM-10:00 PM—SAT. 4PM 10 Pm

ALOAA WOK

RESTAURANT
SPECIALIZING IN
CHINESE @ POLYNESIAN @ AMERICAN
FOOD AT ITS “FINEST”
EXOTIC DRINKS & COCKTAILS
SERVING LUNCH & DINNER

car- 463-9342 ‘),

HOURS CLOSED MONDAYS—OPEN TUES.-FRI.

SUNDAY CHINESE BUFFET 12 NOON-3 PM
° | 409S. MAINST., LEXINGTON.
ili DINNER-CHOICE OF 60 ENTREES

LPVLPVAPV PVP VP VAP LP AP OP VLP VAP PVP AP VV IVP VL

SUN. 12 NOON-10PM—SUN. BUFFET I7NOON-2:900M =
VIA DAILY LUNCHEON SPECIAL fy

    
  
 

DVI LP

 

aga So MON

—-

on,
This fall’s new faculty: standing from left, Lamar Cecil Jr.; John W. Larson; Robert Lee Pour; John
David Parker; Jeffery A. Gray; Peter W. Bergstrom; E. Wyatt Prunty; seated from left, Douglas A.
Burns; Brian C. Murchison; Toni M. Mossaro; Deborah Anne Rindge; and Larry M. Stene. (W&L photo

by Pat Hinely)

Faculty

(continued from page 4)

Robert Richard Ripple
(military science) received the
B.S. from the University of
Maryland and has also studied
at the State University of New
York at Buffalo. A captain in
the Army, he has served as a
platoon leader and a company
commander.

Larry M. Stene (fine arts)
received the B.S. from Moor-
head State College and the
M.F.A. in Sculpture from the
University of Illinois, He has
taught at North Dakota State
University (1974-76) and has
been assistant professor at
Bemidji State University since
1976.

Law Faculty

John Larson (law) is
associate professor of law at
Florida State University. A
graduate of the University of
Michigan, he received the law
degree from the University of
Iowa and was an associate with
the Minneapolis law firm of
Dorsey, Marquart, Windhorst,
West & Halladay from 1964 to
1967. After three years of ser-
vice in the U.S. Navy, he was
assistant to the president at the
University of Iowa from 1967 to
1972 before joining the law
faculty at Florida State. He will
be at W&L for one year.

Toni M. Massaro (law)
received her B.S. degree from
Northwestern University and
her law degree from the College
of William and Mary. She was
previously an associate with the
Chicago law firm of Vedder,
Price, Kaufman and Kamm-
holz.

Brian Murchison (law)
received both his B.A. and law
degrees from Yale University.
He served as a Peace Corps
volunteer in Benin, West Africa,
from 1974 to 1976. He joined the
Washington, D.C., law firm of
Hamel, Park, McCabe and
Saunders as an associate in 1979
following his graduation from
the Yale University law school.

(W&L News Office)

 

 

Calendar

 

Thursday, Sept. 16
8 p.m. — Open House University Theatre. Sponsored by the
Drama dept. Public invited.
Friday, Sept. 17
W&L Debate Tournament. For further information, call Prof.
Halford Ryan, 463-9111, Ext. 345.
Water Polo: W&L ‘Fall Classic,” Twombly Pool.
7 & 9 p.m. — Film: It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad World. University
Center Conference room. Admission $1.
Saturday, Sept. 18
Jewish New Year
W&L Debate Tournament.
Water Polo: W&L ‘‘Fall Classic”’ continues.
1:30p.m. — Football: Generals vs. Emory & Henry. Wilson Field.
7 & 9 p.m. — Film: It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad World. University
Center Conference Room. Admission $1.
Sunday, Sept. 19
Class Agents Weekend
Water Polo: W&L “Fall Classic” continues.
7 & 9 p.m. — Film: It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad World. University
Center Conference room. Admission $1.
Monday, Sept. 20
In the Gallery: (though Oct. 8) “The American Scene;” Early
20th Century Prints from MOMA. DuPont Gallery. The Gallery is
open to the public without charge from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday, and 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Sunday.
Tuesday, Sept. 21
Away Athletic Event: Soccer: Generals vs. Eastern Mennonite.

The Jackson Barber Shop

Carl White Proprietor

‘‘Valley’s Oldest’”’

| WHITE FRONT SUPERMARKET

167 S. Main St. 463-3106 «

      
   

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!!

We offer many services that will benefit
you this school year.

Charge Accounts for Groceries (Bill Can Be Sent Home)
S&H Green Stamps, (Will Help Buy Supplies For Dorm Or
Fraternity Needs)
Fine Quality Meats and Produce With as Competitive Prices
As Any Of The Chains
% Weekend Specials On Beer And Wines (Longnecks Available
And If You Don’t See What You Like, Just Ask)
Complete Wine Department With Competitive Prices.
t *% Free Deliveries To Fraternities.

ASE TRAE GRR) VRRIIN GREE AIMEE A) ARERR BCR GSCI GES ORES

a

(SRG aE OF OE 6 AE S < © <a

The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982, Page 5

 

oy /

de*fineistive
deleiecartesesen
Spanky’s Defines

Delicatessen With A
Selection Of Fine Foods

Delicatessen
Meats

A great deli begins with fine
meats. Pastrami, corned
beef, mortadello, proscuitto,
liverwurst, ham, salamig,
bolognag$, and much more.
Whether you need enough
for a sandwich, or enough for
a banquet Spanky's can fill
your order and do itin a style
that will make you proud.

Cheeses

Cheeses from around the
world define a deli too. But-
tery brie, sharp cheddars,
mild cheddars, swiss,
edams, and much, much
more are ready for your
selection at Spanky's. We
never stop iooking for in-
teresting cheeses to please
your palate.

Pastries

Lovers of baked goods will
love our selection of breads,
bagels, cookies, brownies,
Candy, and cheese cake.
Italian bread lovers rejoice
when they eat our genuine
Italian bread with its crunchy
crust. Bagel lovers jump with
joy at our selection of six
varieties of bagels from New
York. Brownie fanciers
always favor our famous
brownies. Cheese cake peo-
ple swoon at the delicious
richness of our cheese cake.
Cookie monsters roar with
delight at the just the sight of
our cookie selection. Stop in
today for a true delicatessen
selection of fine baked
goods.

Gourmet Foods
At Spanky's you will find
shelves and shelves filled
with gourmet foods from
around the world. Anchovies,
kipper snacks, caviar, ar-
tichoke hearts Mexican

jalepeno peppers, pickles,
treats from the Orient, olives,
pickled herring, and lots, lots
more. If you are looking for
the unusual, hard to find, ex-
otic foods come to Spanky's
for an adventure in shopping
and dining.

Wines

French colombards, burgun-
dies, champagnes, chabiis,
cabarnets, ports, sher-
ries....whatever your taste in
wine come to Spanky's. We
take pride in the choice of
wines for you at Spanky's.

Delicatessen
Salads

Take home a homemade
saiad from Spanky's. A great
deli has good homemade
salads made from quality in-
gredients for you. Macaroni
Salad,potato salad,

salad, shrimp salad,

slaw... all fresh, all ready tor
you at ‘Spanky’ s

Imported

Coffees and Teas

Flavorful coffees ground to
order are also available at
Spanky's. Try a full bodied
Vienna Roast from Spanky's,
or our Mocha Java blend. Tea
lovers will find their cups run-
neth over at Spanky's with
imported black teas, herb
teas, spice teas, and blends
to please tea lovers brewing
pleasures.

Catering

Spanky's can help you with
the. delicious food necessary
to make any social event a
success. Weddings, bir-
thdays, business receptions,

any party is better when
catered by Spanky's. Let us
know your requirements. We
can help.

It takes a lot to make
a deli great.

At Spanky’s We Believe
It’s Worth It.

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va.
463-3338

vi @ jl
ONG F&F

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982 Soe Mra
. Pr =" - : a

 

   

a

=

   
 
 
 
 
 
 

x
+

pes

NEARLY 300 W&l MEN TAKi
er MILITARY SCIENCE PROGRA!
a ACTIVITIES, FRATERNITY Li
| SCHOLARS, VARSITY ATHLE' |
REPRESENTATIVES...OUR CAD
- OF W&L’S TOP STUDENTS — |
OFFICERS. JOIN THEM.

 

 

   

 

 

yess 3

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERS
THE LEADERSHIP CUR

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982, Page 7

  
  
 
 
   
 

ART IN THE UNIVERSITY'S
WITH ITS WIDE-RANGING
DERS, PHI BETA KAPPA
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
S FORM A “WHO'S WHO"
‘AINING TO BECOME ARMY

 

 

 

 
  

SOPHOMORES, REGISTER NOW FOR MS 211
| and CALL or VISIT CPT. BUDDY KELLER at the
“ MILITARY SCIENCE BUILDING:

463-4730; CAMPUS 242.

TY ARMY ROTC:
RICULUM

 

~~ ene
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982

QUPER

 
   
   
  

    

   

WELCOME BACK

Fe >> SALE PRICES

SAVINGS GOOD THRU SAT., OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK GOOD TH R U SAT. S E PT. 18

THE SUBJECT IS SAVINGS

mw COKE

 
     

     
 

 
  

 

\

 
  
   
  
  
 

PEPSI PLANTERS
DR. PEPPER Reg. 5.15
MR. PIBB _——

eo /} 100’s 5.35

¢ Nea/CIGARETTES
Warning: The Surgeon General Has
BONUS BUY i Determined That Cigarette Smoking !s

Dangerous to Your Health.
<S oF Ns

 

 

 

 
   
 
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
  
        
 
 
   

 

 

TYPING PAPER || FILLER PAPER, a
200 sheets, 8-1/2" x 11" pe i Page PARSONS TABLE Sandalfoot or teintorced toe

in fashion colors

 

 

 

 

PAIRS

\. FOR

 

 

28 995
L Reg. 1.87 a Reg. 1.71)
mn es a =

BIC
3 + MATH BOOK SH AVER
{ By | disaae Saat
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS UNBREAKABLE
STUDENT MATH KIT HANGERS eS CASSETTE —
TI-35 Plastic, in assorted colors. minute, Dian

 

 

 

| 4828, | 104%

Reg. 22.99) a FOR each j \

 

\. 9OMINUTE 2-pack...... 3.99 )\_
(/ WINDSOR UNLIMITED

         
 
 
   
      
 
 

     
    
    

  

   

PORTABLE AM/FM
as | STEREO HEADPHONE
49 | WIPE-OFF AM/FM-MPX RADIO
_.., MEMO BOARD ttalty-portable
— for eaten: aA, ‘arene
notes, quick figuring.
Aasanaa rg WINDSOR HOT POT one ee trem

 

 
 
  

extra-long cor-
ds, and more.
Model $T1400

Electric, enameled.
In assorted colors.

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

PORTABLE

A. STORAGE/ RECORD CABINET : TELEVISION
Rustic Malibu finish x x ; i a |
with sliding doors. Easy to assemble. i ha trl A. 3-DRAWER CHEST ss lis
YOUR CHOICE Model BT-316NR oodgrain finish on rugged fiber E

board. 19-1/2"' x 13-1/8” x 12-3/4”

C. 3 SHELF BOOKCASE 2 88 5 Q9 || 5. shor storace Box aS

 

Rustic Malibu finish. 9-1/2" x Holds 9 pairs or purses. Woodgrain

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a ‘ i Reg. 29.88 Reg. 5.99
24-1/2"' 29-1/2"' h. Solid core Reg. 78.88 finish fiber board. 26-1/4'' x 13-1/4”
K_ construction. Easy to assemble. EACH - .. J \ x 12-3/4''. Easy assembly. —™ zl
WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO LIMIT QUANTITIES : =
TRAINCHECK POUCY VISA® Route 11 N. PHARMACY HOURS: STORE HOURS:
(3 aa Lexinat 9 a.m. ’til 10 p.m. Mon. thru Friday Open 9 a.m. ’til Midnight
t Terenas conrad no oa exington, Va. Saturday 9 a.m. ’til9 p.m. Monday thru Saturday

Val brend wher :
\ Soeesonanceetiona ts memo 463-7126 Sunday 10a.m. ’til 9 p.m. 9a.m. 'til9 p.m. Sunday

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Record

number
applies

by Tom Baker

Washington and Lee received
more applications for this fall’s
freshman class than for any
class ever before, the admis-
sions office has announced.

Of the grand total of applica-
tions —1,605 — the university of-
fered admission to 794 young
men. About 360 accepted and
matriculated.

Robert Huntley, dean of

freshmen, said that the faculty
has found this year’s entering
Students exceptionally well-
acquainted with the catalogue
and the course offerings.
Huntley said that freshmen had
been sent sample schedule plan-
ning material during the sum-
mer.
The class of 1986 includes 23
National Merit Scholars, and 19
who finished first or second in
their high school graduating
class.

Public schools sent more to
fill up the freshmen class than
did private schools: 57 percent
public, 43 private.

The average score of this
year’s freshmen on the verbal
section of the Scholastic Ap-
titude Test was 565; the average
on the math section was 610.

Of the 804 students outside
these special categories who ap-
plied from public schools, 53
percent were accepted, i.e., 426.
Of the 676 who applied from
private schools, only 43 percent
were accepted.

Annual
Fund tops
record

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity received a record $1,279,983
in unrestricted gifts toward the
university’s day-to-day oper-
ating expenses for 1981-82. The
final total reflects an increase
of 9.3 percent over last year’s
total of $1,170,941. This is the
third time in the past three
years that the annual fund at
W&L has exceeded $1 million.

The gifts provided almost 10
percent of the university’s
operating budget.

Still Waiting For
An Overdue
Financial Aid Check?

Call or drop
business office. Your
check may be in.

Don’t Delay!

by the

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982, Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

James Whitehead, W&L secretary, speaks at opening of Reeves
Center on Saturday, above. Whitehead was credited at the
ceremony as ‘‘the guiding spirit’ that prompted the renovation of

Reeves Center opened

A center for the study of Washington and Lee’s Reeves porcelain
and Herreshoff paintings was officially opened Saturday.

Dean of the College William Watt praised W&L’s secretary,
James Whitehead, as the ‘‘guiding spirit” behind the restoration of
what was formerly Tucker Annex.

“One of the most important things is that (the collection) is
available for undergraduate study and particularly with that
‘hands-on’ approach would not be allowed to happen at most of the

   

the buidling. (W&L photo by Pat Hinely) At right, visitors review
paintings by Louise Herreshoff Reeves at the newly opened center.
(Phi photo by Jeffery Lis)

larger (cities),’’ Donald Gonsalves, of the Colonial Willliamsburg
Foundation, said in a speech Saturday afternoon.

Both the porcelain and the paintings were given to the university
in 1967 by Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves of Providence, R.I. Mr.
Reeves, a 1927 graduate of the W&L law school, and his wife had
collected more than 2,000 items of ceramic art dating from the late
17th century through the first half of the 20th century.

The collection is particularly rich in mid-18th and early 19th cen-
tury Chinese export porcelain, some of which was decorated with
eagles and the stars and stripes to please 19th century Americans.

The Reeves gift also included paintings by Mrs. Reeves, who
signed with her maiden name, Louise Herreshoff.

 

 

ee I IT ™ a ™ a e”™e”™ es

 

a aN TI ee

UDC 90 3-PACK
Reg. $13.47
NOW $10.49

hoe
Records-Tapes 9 => 3
Stereo Components R

LEXINGTON - BUENA VISTA SHOPPING PARK 463-9494

audio-
Technica

 

MAXELL
LNC-120—2 BAG
List $11.18
OUR PRICE $7.99

MAXELL
LNC-46—2 BAG
List $5.18
OUR PRICE $3.89

MAXELL TDK
UDXL II Deal DC-60 2-PACK

2-UDXL Il Reg. -$4.99
c-90’s NOW ONLY $3.99
Reg. $10.98 TDK

NOW $9.98 DC-90 2-BAG
Reg. $6.50
NOW ONLY $4.99

 

MAXELL

 

UDC 90 2-PACK
Reg. $8.98
NOW $7.49

MEMOREX
HI-BIAS—3 BAG
Buy 2, Get One FREE
Reg. $17.97
NOW $11.98

 

Cartridges

He 6s.
AT110E AT126LC adphonésy

@ SANYO

Mini-Size Stereo Component
System

 

: =

List $130.00
OUR PRICE $24.95 OUR PRICE $49.95

 

| From.
$29.95 - $149.95

List $65.00

SANYO Micro- @SANYO Mini-
ini Size Stereo Cassette Size AM/FM Cassette
Player : Stereo Player

dphones

 

$159”

100’s of Hard-to-find LP’s, from $1.99
Over 1400 Used L P’s, starting at 10°

@SANYO Mini

AM/FM Stereo Cassette Player Stereo Cassette Player

with Lightweight Stereo with Lightweight Headphones
\

—SUPERCUT-OUTS— {G

 

 

 

RS TUNER/AMPLIFIER
+ Sensitive AM/FM stereo tuner.
+ Plenty of power: 20 watts per channel
+ Separate bass and trebie controls
* LED signal strength meter.
D5 CASSETTE DECK
* Plays any tape type, including Metal
+ Dolby* noise reduction
+ Iuminated VU meters
SS SPEAKER SYSTEM
* + Powerful 2-way #peakers with 4° cone

= , _ Wooters and 2° tweeters

_——; List $499°°

ly | -@ Our Price
igge agg 429"

@ SANYO Miniature @SANYO AM/FM
Cassette Recorder with

Variable Monitor

  

 

 

 
 

Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982

Sports

 

 

Defending champ W&L hosts Wasps

by Andy Hoppes

Washington and Lee’s foot-
ball team kicks off its 1982
season Saturday afternoon at
Wilson Field against Emory &
Henry College.

Coach Gary Fallon’s Gener-
als will be defending the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
crown they captured last year
en route to an 8-2 season. W&L
will also be trying to extend a
six game winning streak they
started last year.

Thirty-two lettermen return
from last year’s championship
club including several key per-
formers at the skill positions.
Lost to graduation are Kodak
Division III All-American Mike
Pressler and all-ODAC tight
end Mike Fogarty and safety
Barry Thompson.

Chief among the many superb
players returning is senior
tailback Chris Cavalline.
Cavalline gained 765 yards
rushing last season while earn-
ing ODAC Player of the Year
honors. He was also a valuable
receiver coming out of the
backfield.

Returning to quarterback the
Generals is Al Paradise.
Paradise had an excellent 1981

"season, completing over 50% of
his passes for 1,014 yards and
six touchdowns.

W&L’s second leading ground
gainer last season, Pat
McGuire, also returns to the
backfield. McGuire rushed for
230 yards in 1981.

While Cavalline will probably
be in the main offensive threat,

RENT A...

   
      

     
  
 

Gin
PLY

BOL © Att |

   

ws eel

 
  
 
 
 

no defense can hope to stop the
Generals by stopping Cavalline
alone. “‘They’ve got to be
respectful of everyone in our
backfield. We have a four-back
threat,’’ Coach Fallon observ-
ed.

W&L’s fine offensive line
should give the backs plenty of
running room. Anchoring the of-
fensive line are Senior Andy
Foley and junior Glenn
Kirschner.

If the offense stalls, Fallon
can call on his barefooted place-
kicker Bill Devine to put three
points on the board. Devine
kicked seven field goals last
year and has extremely good
range for a Division III kicker.

On defense, tri-captain Ken
Manganiello will be a stalwart
at defensive end, but the
Generals must find replace-
ments for five starters lost to
graduation.

‘“‘That’s an area where we’re
going to have to find answers as
we go along,’ noted Coach
Fallon. ‘‘We got to hope that our
youngsters that are trying to fill
those positions will come
through.”’

-Overall, W&L looks like a
favorite in the ODAC race, but
Coach Fallon remains noncom-
mittal. ‘“‘We can beat all nine
opponents on our schedule if we
stay healthy and get in the right
frame of mind. If we’re not
healthy or not in the right frame
of mind any of our nine op-
ponents could beat us,”’ Fallon
asserted.

Fallon also expects W&L’s op-

  

AVAILABLE THRU:

ee ore

, KEEPS (ORAET BEER FROSTY COLD!

WITHOUT ICE OR ELECTRICITY

$11.00 for the
WEEK-END!

USABLE ANYTIME ANYWHERE
Green Valley Rent-Alls
call 463-4680 Monday thru Saturday

; eh? Keg-Tainer will keep a 39° keg under LO°for
24 hours w/o ice, in 80° heat.

ponents to be particularly fired
up when they take on the
Generals. ‘‘We’re not very
popular. People just like to get
after W&L in all sports. It
makes a lot of other teams’
seasons if they can beat us,”’
Fallon pointed out.

This week’s opponent, Emory
& Henry, brings an 0-2 record to
Wilson Field, but if the game
follows the historical pattern, it
should be close. Last year the
Generals needed a goal line
stand to hold off the Wasps for a
24-17 win.

There have been several
other close games in recent
years, and Emory & Henry ac-
tually leads the all-time series
6-5. “We have to warn our kids
that they’re not going to lay
down and die,”’ Fallon stated.

There are three reasons the
1982 Washington and Lee Uni-
versity cross country team
should be successful: Jon,
Angus, and Frank.

Senior captain Jon Kelafant
(Staunton, Va.), junior Angus
McBryde (Charlotte, N.C.), and
sophomore Frank Pittman
(Atlanta, Ga.) led the 1981
Generals to a successful (8-3-0
record) season. Head coach
Dick Miller has every reason to
believe the trio will enable W&L
to improve in 1982.

McBryde led the Generals in
seven of their eight competi-

  
  
     
 

 

 
 

      
        

Freshman tailback Chris Bleggi hurdles the defensive line for a

 

touchdown in last Saturday’s Blue-White scrimmage. The Generals
open their season Saturday against Emory and Henry College.

Trio to lead harriers

tions last fall, including the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Championship meet where he
placed seventh overall to
become the first W&L harrier to
receive All-Conference hohors
(awarded to the top seven
finishers), His time in the 8000-
meter, 5l-runner event was
26:33, 18 seconds behind the
winner.

McBryde also led W&L at the
NCAA Division III East
Regional Qualifying meet by
placing eighth overall in a 72-
man field. His time in that 8000-
meter race was 25:47.1, 27
seconds behind the winner.

Pittman and Kelafant com-
bined with McBryde to form
W&L’s 1-2-3 finishers in nearly
every race last fall. Pittman led
the team in one competition,

placed second in six (including
the ODAC and NCAA events),
and third in one meet. Kelafant
finished second for the team in
one race, third in five runs. Pitt-
man placed 11th overall in the
Conference Championships
(26:57) and 10th in the NCAA
East Regional race (25:58.5).
Kelafant was 19th in the ODAC
meet (27:53) and 33rd in the
NCAA event (27:04.3).

Two other 1981 lettermen will
return this fall: Paul Chapman
(Short Hills, N.J.) and
sophomore Ben Lipscomb
(Greenville, S.C.), who each
provided team points during the
1981 campaign.

The Generals open their cam-
paign against Mary Washington
and Washington College on
Sept. 25.

2nd Hand Shop
7 North Jefferson St.

Buy, Sell or Trade Anything New or Old
Also Music Shop and
Blue Grass Band Booking

520 E. Nelson St.

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS
‘Me Red Front Grocery

309 N. Main

 

FRAZIER’S EXXON
SERVICE CENTER

State Inspections

tuneups, minor repairs, parts
and state insepction

MON.—SAT. 7:30 a.m. -8 p.m. SUN. 10 a.m. -6 p.m.

 

 
       
       

Would you like a
business of your own?

Earn extra money in
your spare time? Se-

cond or third income?
For appointment call

463-6676. No informa-

tion over the phone.

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982, Page 11

 

Water polo opens with goalie problems

If goalkeeping is the most im-
portant aspect of water polo,
then the Washington and Lee
squad may well have some pro-
blems when they open their
season with the W&L Fall
Classic this weekend.

Andy Gates, last year’s start-
ing goalie, did not return to
school this fall. And junior
Kevin Kadesky, Gates’ backup,
has a swollen spleen and is
questionable for this weekend’s
action in Cy Twombly pool.

Who does that leave? Well,
according to head coach Page
Remillard, if Kadesky is unable
to play, freshman Charles Poer
will handle the duties in the
shallow end, and swimmer Jeff
Gee will tend goal in the deep
end. Should anything happen to
either of them, W&L has three
additional freshmen who can

play the position.

Lefthanded senior Ken John-
stone, who scored the crucial
goals last year in the Generals’
Southern League tournament
victory over the University of
Richmond, is president of his
fraternity and will not play
water polo.

However, junior Matt Raven-
craft, also a lefty, attended the
National Junior Development
Camp in Colorado Springs with
sophomore Bobby Pearson over
the summer and qualified for
the Junior Development team,
which faced teams from other
countries.

He figures to challenge
seniors Bob Marshall and Keith
Kadesky and Pearson for the
two open starting berths.

Returning starters from last
year’s 31-5 squad are senior

W&L Soccer to begin
‘excellent’ schedule

by Will Kidwell

The Washington and Lee soc-
cer team will open an ‘“‘ex-
cellent” schedule on September
21 at Eastern Mennonite. The
team will have a strong return-
ing group of upperclassmen as
well as some very promising
freshman talent.

The upperclassmen who have
returned this year appear to
have worked harder this sum-
mer than in the past. A grueling
summer fitness program has
them in fine physical condition
as they approach the season.
Furthermore, there seems to be
more intelligent off the ball
movement this year than in the
past, according to Piranian.

So far there have been no ma-
jor injuries in preseason prac-
tices and all the players on the
team are expected to be fit for
the season opener against
Eastern Mennonite. However,
there is a possibility that in-
juries later in the year could
cause a problem, particularly
in the defense.

It is possible that there will be
a lot of substituting in the mid-
field and forward positions,
however.

Piranian says that there has
been more emphasis placed on
offense this year than in the

 

first six games, five will be
played on the road. However,
all of the teams played can, in
the opinion of Piranian, be
beaten by the Generals if they
make a concerted team effort.

Overall, Piranian has termed
the schedule to be ‘‘excellent,
challenging, andrealistic.” __

For now, Piranian is looking
only at the Eastern Mennonite
game. He says that all of the
teams the Generals will face
are worthy and a challenge.
However, as in the past, the
team will worry only about the
next game on the schedule and
not make any plans or predic-
tions beyond that.

However, with a strong core
of returning players, the pro-
mising freshmen, the overall
cohesiveness of the team, and
the improved schedule, Pira-
nian is optimistic about the up-
coming season.

Erik Peterson, who scored a
school-record 152 goals, and
juniors Rand McClain (49
assists, 40 goals), Tim Rock (42
goals) and Don Smith (20 goals,
30 assists).

Peterson and McClain were
named to the Division III all-
American team by the US.
Water Polo Coaches Associa-
tion, and they joined Raven-
craft on the silver-medal South
squad at the National Sports

Festival in Indianapolis over
the summer. That squad,
coached by Remillard, had
never before even won a game
at the Sports Festival.

Also, Smith participated in
the Outdoor National Cham-
pionships at Stanford Universi-

ty.

Remillard believes that these
players will ‘‘benefit from their
experiences over the sum-
mer...The knowledge and ex-

Generally Speaking
°82 Generals feature offense

by G. Bruce Potter

Washington and Lee football
coach Gary Fallon’s nickname
is “Falcon,” but his club this
season will more likely resem-
ble the San Diego Chargers of
the NF'L with a prolific offense
and a relatively weak defense.

The Generals lost six all-
ODAC performers from last
year’s 8-2 squad, but they
should more than make up for it
with an offense featuring the
passing of junior Al Paradise,
the running of senior Chris
Cavalline (as well as Paradise),
and the receiving of seniors Phil
Hrabar and Steve Corbeille.

All of that experience and
talent (not to mention an offen-
sive line featuring all-ODAC
performers Andy Foley and
Glenn Kirschner ) should lead to
some exciting and explosive
football this season on Wilson
Field.

This was evident in last Satur-
day’s controlled scrimmage on
Wilson Field. At one point,
starting on the three-yard line
on each play, the offense was
able to score five consecutive
times against a defense that
last year had thrown up several
crucial goal-line stands.

First, Cavalline scored twice,
once on a pitchout and once ona
handoff — both to the left. Then,

 
 
  

yy W —e

YAS
My Hair Care

os Ee For You.

Joy)
is
Via
M) Y 9 AM-5P.M.
Old Main Building

Paradise rolled out to his left,
and, not finding anyone open,
scooted into the end zone.
Senior tailback Pat McGuire
made an incredible catch for a
score, and finally, sophomore
fullback Danny Jayne burst up
the middle for a touchdown.

Corbeille, a three-year letter-
man, looked particularly im-
pressive as he used his small
size — 5-4, 142 pounds — to get
open and make some impres-
sive catches.

Freshman tailback Chris
Bleggi showed a considerable
amount of potential as he ripped
off a 49-yard touchdown dash.

But the major problems seem
to be on defense and especially
in the secondary. There was a
lot of defensive confusion in the
scrimmage as players were

 

  

—WELCOME STUDENTS—

perience you acquire at pro-
grams like these are in-
valuable.”’

The W&L Fall Classic will
open with a game between the
Generals and Johns Hopkins at
7:00 p.m. Friday. Other teams
participating in the round-robin
tournament will be Kenyon Col-
lege, Monmouth College, United
States Naval Academy, and
defending champion Slippery
Rock State College.

shuttled back and forth on near-
ly every play as the coaches
tried to find a successful com-
bination.

The defensive line appears to
be fairly solid with seniors Ken
Manganiello and Mark Yerke at
the ends and Bill Dederick,
Marty Manasco, and Doug
Teague on the inside. .

The kicking game is strong
with senior Bill Devine as the
barefooted place kicker and
Cavalline and McGuire sharing
the punting duties, although
McGuire did have a punt block-
ed in Saturday’s scrimmage.

Overall, the Generals will be
looking to improve on last
year’s ODAC championship,
and they have the personnel to
do it, especially since the of-
fense has the potential to score
every time it touches the ball.

 

HERE’S WHAT YOU WILL
FIND AT PRES BROWNS

Athletic Supplies —

Lacrosse

Sticks, Frisbees, Basketballs, Etc.
Athletic Shoes — Nike, New

Balance, Adidas,

Converse and Pony
Sportswear — Levis and

Woolrich

Hunting and Fishing Supplies
— Dove Ammo Camo Suits $4.99

Photo Supplies — Kodak Film
and Processing Camera

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

past. | Lexington, Va. ‘
One of the most difficult ! | r Batteries and Darkroom
aspects of the schedule 46 3 -9588 Accessories
is the fact that of the Y
Hamric & Sheridan N Pres Brown’s
JEWELERS IMPORTED CHEESES DELI MEATS PARTY PLATTERS 115 W Nelson St
BIG DELICIOUS DELI SANDWICHES "
Watches and Open 9:00 to 5:30 Mon. - Sat.
Jewelry Repairs Ole Main Saudiwich Shoppe Se en... ee
OLDMAINSTREET | 106 W. Weshingnst. == Sd
ee LEXINGTON, VA. 24450 Lexington, Virginia 703-463-6055 j
Hand Engraving & Class Rings TONY SCHLOTTER 25 cents OFF on a large Sundae !
PROPRIETOR 703-463-2995 with this coupon. |
11 W. Nelson 463-2022 (cial Expires 9/23/82 J

 

 

 
Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1982

IT ALL HAPPENS ON THE CORNER!!
: 9AM oe

 

Nelson & Jefferson St.
   

 

VOLUME LXXxXIl

‘NUMBER 3

  

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 36

 

 

 

 

 

EC: Who suffers

by FD change?

by Rick Swagler

In its second meeting of the
school year, the W&L Executive
Committee discussed a pro-
posal to move Fancy Dress
Weekend from the current date
of March 4-5 to the weekend of
March 18-19.

The move was proposed by
Law School representative Ken
Terwilleger, after having dis-
cussed the matter with other
law students. According to Ter-
willeger, the problem with the
current date is that it coincides
with the beginning of the law
school’s spring holiday.

Terwilleger argued that in
order for law students to attend
this event, they must sacrifice
the first weekend of their break.
“It’s not fair to ask them to
stick around for something
their funds have paid for,”’ Ter-
willeger said.

Townsend Oast of the Student
Activities Board was present at
the meeting to answer questions
and defend the current date.
Oast made four points:

vSome fraternities have
already booked bands and
many groups from out-of-state
plan their tours around Fancy
Dress,

~The March 18 date may pre-
sent a difficult work load
because of the close proximity
to exams (two weeks) and the

number of papers usually due at
that particular time,

vFancy Dress has _tradi-
tionally been a winter event us-
ed to break up the time between
Washington Break and Spring
Term. Holding the event that
late in March would make it
more of a spring event, and

vy Law students usually have
classes on the Friday before
their spring break, and they
could leave on Saturday.

Terwilleger ended by saying
that the plans for Fancy Dress
should not be made around the
fraternities because ‘“‘though
they are an important part of
the University community, they
aren’t part of the school.” Ter-
willeger also said that he didn’t
think the winter tradition was
‘‘all that hard-core.”’

Junior representative Scott
Mason asked that the SAB find
out whether the girls’ schools
would be in session, and Presi-
dent Bennett Ross suggested
that the motion to vote be tabled
until further information was
brought before the Committee
by interested students.

“The ramifications will be ex-
treme and I don’t want us to
make this decision tonight,’
Ross said.

Vice President Morgan Grif-
fith argued that by tabling the

(continued on page 5)

Bridgewater Student
-Young man challenges the U.S. draft

by B. Scott Tilley

BRIDGEWATER — This
sleepy little town, home of
Virginia’s first coeducation col-
lege, is about to be cast into na-
tional attention. On November
15, the first day of final exams
at Bridgewater College, senior
Enten Eller may begin a sen-
tence of up to six years in prison
for violation of the Selective
Service Act.

Federal District Judge James
Turk, at the end of Eller’s
August trial in Roanoke, asked
the 20-year-old if he had any
comments. “I told him that I
could not, in good conscience,
register,”’ said Eller in a recent
interview on the Bridgewater
campus. ‘“Ten seconds later, he
told me I had 90 days to
register.’’

As the end of the 90-day

period approaches, Enten is

standing firm. On the morning
of November 15, his probation
officer will report that there has
been a violation of probation.
The resulting hearing could pro-
duce a jail sentence of up to 6
years under the Youth Correc-
tions Act.

A six-footer with black hair
and glasses who likes to play
Star Trek on the college com-
puter, Eller said the final deci-
sion to be a non-registrant took
place the night he heard Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter make the
announcement to reinstate reg-
istration. ‘That night I took
some time and dealt with the
issue. At that point I felt I was
being led to not register, so I
didn’t,” he said.

“I anticipate not registering,
which should be a surprise to no
one, When I took the position in

the first place, I took it knowing
I could go to prison. Simply

pene

Polo

anyone?

The British Army Polo Team
defeated the Farmington Coun-

The Brits are playing exhibition
matchs up and down the Easter
seaboard. They are brought

 

years. This was the first time
they have won at VMI since
they first came in 1976.

because I’ve been given another
90 days to think about it doesn’t
change where I’m at — doesn’t
mean I’m running scared.

‘Now, there’s tension there,
It’s like someone dropped a
sword and it missed you so they
raised it back up and put it
above your head for a second
shot. It’s back to where I was in
the first place — back to square
one.”

A California native, Eller car-
ried a Bible with him during the
interview, and calls on religion
and God as the foundation of his
position, as well as his support
throughout. His father, Ver-
nard, is a minister in the
Church of the Brethren,
historically associated with the
Quakers and Mennonites for its
extreme pacifism. Eller said
that he believed that all war 1s
“sin,” but that is not the reason
for his non-registration.

try Club (of Charlottesville), ?
514 to 4, Wednesday afternoon
on the VMI parade grounds. ®

 

here by the Lexington English- %% *
‘speaking Union every two @

“The basic belief in my posi-
tion is that I need to obey God
before anyone else. Obedience
to God is first. It doesn’t matter
if I’m opposed to war...I don’t
make those kind of statements
with the position because that’s
not where I’m coming from,”
said the math-physics double
major.

“I’m not using the position as
a soapbox to address militar-
ism, or nuclear war, or
anything. This is what I have to
do for me to obey God, at least
as I understand Him and as I
see Him.

“‘Now, it’s possible that I
could be mistaken, because I
can’t prove to you God is
leading me to do this. I can’t
prove it to myself. I don’t think
God lends Himself to being pro-
ven...Who has more power of
authority, God or the U.S. gov-
ernment? The answer’s kind of

 

Po
3 SE aR Rae See Bey ~ Sotaapeaerhce cam

 

 

obvious,” he said with a laugh.

Eller has been active in other
types of ‘peace movements.’’
He is involved with the Ground
Zero anti-nuclear weapons
group, the Virginia State Peace-
making Committee, the Peace
Awareness Group on Campus,
and the Christians for Peace
group in Harrisonburg. The pro-
blem with most peace
movements though, Eller said,
is that they have forgotten the
true source of peace. And that is
God.

He also considers himself
patriotic. ‘‘Americans like to
think of themselves as very
patriotic, but you take the
American Revolution. That was
disobedience to the core, but yet
that was patriotic...If I’m point-
ing a better way or showing
God’s love, I don’t see how that
can be wrong for a nation,”’ he
said.
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982

 
  
 

ie

E

needs time, strategy

Opinion

‘ANE LeMNT STERRED

ON \r."

 

to allocate student money

by Todd Smith

Last year, two of the SAB’s
representatives were slightly
drunk when they made their
budget request to the EC.

The EC wasn’t in peak condi-
tion either: it was now 2 a.m.
Wednesday and they had been
sitting since 6:30 p.m. the day
before.

This is the EC budget hear-
ing, and it happens again Thurs-
day, Sept. 30. Last year’s ordeal
took eight hours. In that time
the Executive Committee
allocated over $92,000. As the
Phi noted last year, the question
isn’t why the EC wants to get it
over in one night. The question
is, How can they?

How can they evaluate Con-
tact, the Student Activities
Board, The Student Bar Asso-
ciation, the publications, the In-
tellectual Symposium, the
Political Review, the Outing
Club, the Computer Club, fenc-
ing and rugby all at once?

This year’s EC looks more
capable than ever before, and
certainly can be trusted to
allocate fairly. But you'll just
have to trust them because you
certainly won't understand
them.

As we noted in our Oct. 8,
1981, editorial, ‘‘The Criteria
excludes sleeping bags, picnics
and Infoton computer _ ter-
minals. The criteria includes
oranges, scrun sleds and porno
weekends.”’ You figure it out.

Last year’s presdient Eric
Myers said at the beginning of
his term, and his successor,
Bennett Ross, reaffirmed, that!
the biggest factor in the deci-
sion making process is the sub-
committee’s track record. If
they have used their money
frugally and efficiently, they
are rewarded.

Correction

In the Sept. 16 Interfraternity
Council story we misreported
when the Kappa Alpha social
probation would start. It will
start the Monday following
Homecoming. The Phi regrets
the error.

If that’s true then the SAB
will be getting nothing at all this
year. They even overspent what
the EC gave them for seconds to
bail them out for Fancy Dress.

The decision of how much to
allocate a sub-committee is
more complex. As John Vla-
hoplus, senior representative
has noted, the number of
students that benefit from the
service must also be counted in.

And then the EC must make
judgement calls between
oranges and parties and sleep-
ing bags. Last year’s judge-
ment not to finance the Inter-
varsity Christian Fellowship
produced a debate in which the
EC was asked, point blank,
“What exactly is your cri-
teria?’’ The answer was fuzzy.

There was no real answer.

And there are no real answers

to be had. But if the EC must re-
ly on judgement calls and intui-
tion to get out the budget, then
the students ought to be able to
watch their decision-making
process. And yet, what student
would want to sit in on an eight-
hour marathon?

It seems to me that only by
breaking up the hearing into

a]
aL

Letter:

two or three sessions can the
process become clear.

Of course, the general student
body is not going to get excited
about budgets and flock to
meetings spread over several
days. But as it is now, even club
members with a real interest
are discouraged from attend-
ing. As the evening wears on
and the schedule becomes a
joke, each group must wait for
its turn to come up at some
unknown time. Supporters of
various groups stick their heads
in, are told it will be another 30
minutes, and give up.

The only benefit that would
come from one eight hour ses-
sion is the time saved. Seniors
on the EC may be worried about
the Oct. 2 Law School Admis-
sions Test, and others may just
as soon get the budget over
with.

But aren’t the budgets the
most important thing the EC
handles, except for the honor
code?

The EC can best serve all our
interests by making the
budgeting process more ac-
cessible, and that probably
means getting rid of the budget
marathon.

Review needs you

Editor:

Last spring, an article in the
Ring-tum Phi likened the W&L
Political Review to The New
Republic. The author complain-
ed that such a conservative stu-
dent body should have a more
representative publication.
Because Review co-Editors C.
Jay Robbins and I are members
of Young Americans for Free-
dom, our delighted liberal col-
leagues subjected us to a great
deal of grief.

The Review is non-partisan
and will remain so; we welcome
all sides of the issues. No
“right-wing” articles will ap-
pear, however, if none is sub-

mitted. Since the Reaganites at
the law school could convene in
a phone booth, undergraduates
must help represent the Right
— and the Left and Middle, of
course. Faculty submissions
are welcome also.

If you are interested in
writing for the W&L Political
Review, please attend the in-
troductory meeting on Thurs-
day, September 23 at 7 p.m. in
Room 114 of the Student Center.
or contact co-Editor James
Falk at 463-9852.

Sincerely,

John M. McGarry ’83 L
Co-Editor-in-Chief
W&L Political Review

THRUSH Oe steaks rts

 

Were our police
rotten to the top?

by John Cleghorn

When prosecuting attorney Beverly C. “John”
Read dropped the final cases in the Lexington police
trials three weeks ago, the Lexington-Rockbridge
community was allowed a deep breath of relief. Thir-
teen men who had been indicted came under in-
dividual scrutiny over the summer, seven of whom
were convicted. John Read’s reasoning for ending the
trials satisfied most people, as he appealed that the
community had experienced enough.

Read continued by saying that it remained for Chief
Kirby and the City of Lexington to initiate internal in-
vestigations to find whether or not the police force is
capable of recovering and beginning anew.

A week ago the Lexington City Council took the first
step in continuing the pursuit of the issue. Mayor
Charles Phillips asked Councilman T.C. Imeson to
read a resolution which announced that a special in-
vestigation would be executed by the city into the Of-
fice of the Chief of Police. This investigation attacks
the heart of the matter as it will focus on the leader-
ship, or the lack thereof, of a police force in which a
theft ring operated unnoticed for almost a decade.

The relationships within such an operation are in-
tricate and the questions concerning those relation-
ships are myriad. A valuable part of this investigation
would be an examination of the statments of each of
the officers who have been previously investigated. In
these statements, which are part of the public record,
there is evidence of a mutual understanding between
the officers concerning the common practice of steal-
ing from Lexington businesses such as Adair-Hutton,
Lexington Motors: and Spanky’s. It is up to the city
investigations to determine the depth of knowledge, if
any, that Chief Kirby had about these thefts and also
to discover why the theft ring, made up of law en-
forcement officers; was not terminated.

Also in the public record there are vague references
to impropriety on behalf of the leadership of the force.
With such questionable and suspicious allusions con-
cer ning the authority of the present police force left
unanswered, the issue remains open.

The Mayor, the City Council, and the Police Chief
himself must be satisfied with the leadership of the
Lexington Police Force. The investigations asked for
Thursday by the City Council should disclose the re-
maining questions of just how widespread the theft
‘ring was in its operation, and why it was able to
operate so smoothly for so long.

Ring-tum Phi

P.O. Box 899, Lexington, Va. 24450

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

in | Pe en Fe Pepe re epee ee ee Todd Smith
IN 55s pn chs cba 11 063 Tek 1 1 sian da creas Gh Steve Perry
WHI DOT 5h 6b cs R578 5 os £00010 00 ks rc A dca bee Evans Attwell
TOE OT eh Cr OC RENEE en REA ite es John Cleghorn
| FPP ee ie ORT Eee eo yee ee G, Bruce Potter
POON INO i 6aos ha Gede Uechntes cats oie a cis B. Scott Tilley
UO os bbe chide bee 4a bined h sees bie ae Rick Swagler, Bill Roberts,
Charles Alcorn

PRVOTUINE AORMGIN ic i ie iv cece cccceedcsvevccec cect, Ree Often
PTI oid gs 6s bine eth cage trast ettisicis Al Bryant, Charles King,
Brad Houston, Tim Mulraney, Jim Wood

ee ee Jim Wood

mem mm me mm mm me ee ee

— a me ng,

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982, Page 3

 

Lexington brightens with new bar and live music

by Bill Roberts

Live music and entertain-
ment will be the main attrac-
tions at the new bar on the cor-
ner of Nelson and Jefferson
streets with the video games in
front and the signs displaying
‘Palms Operahouse.”’

It is the latest business
endeavor by Doug Higgins and
Jay Korn, who are the co-
owners of the Campus Corner
record store and The Palms
restaraunt.

The Operahouse opened its
doors to the partying public last
Friday with an offering of live
music, beer and Mexican food:
a combination the entrepre-
neurs hope will bring in the
crowds.

“Friday, opening night, the
place was packed,” said Mack
Mason who is both a participant
in the venture with Higgins and
Korn and the group’s spokes-
man. Mason is also a part
owner of the Lexington Dry

A grease fire broke out in the
kitchen of the W&L Co-op
building at about 6:45 a.m.
Tuesday destroying a stove and
an adjacent wall, totalling ap-
proximately $2,500 in damages,
according to Food Services
Director Gerry Darrell.

 

The damages will keep the
Co-op from cooking most hot
food for about two weeks but

Workers try to get things back to normal Tuesda
worth of damage (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Small fire damages Co-op

Goods Co. clothing store across
Nelson St. from the Opera-
house.

‘“‘Live music and entertain-
ment are the main thrust of the
place,’’ Mason said. The plan is
to bring in bands at least every
Wednesday, Friday and Satur-
day nights, if not more often.
That emphasis on performing
musicians is the rationale
behind the title “‘Operahouse,”’
which they prefixed with
“‘Palms’’ for name recognition
by the public, Mason said.

In keeping with the musical
theme, Mike Seeger, a folk
singer, will be playing Thurs-
day night and ‘‘108,’’ a middle-
of-the-road band from Char-

‘ lottesville, will be playing both

nights this weekend, Mason
said.

The building, which once
housed a Virginia Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board Store,
was renovated during the sum-
mer by Larry Dreshler, a Lex-

french fries and some other
foods will still be available,
Darrell said.

The Lexington Fire Depart-
ment arrived soon after the fire
became uncontrollable and ex-
tinguished the blaze before the
wall behind the stove collapsed,
Darrell said.

“Nobody with any sense
fights a grease fire,” said Co-op
cook Joan Mays. “‘We just got

Peta al A linn an te nes in ea i en EP

WOOD'S CREEK
GROCERY

ington builder. Mason said the
total cost of the renovation was
approximately $60,000.

An acoustically designed
band stand and a tile covered
beer bar are features of the in-
terior. A separate video-game
room is available for the
pleasure of Operahouse clien-
tele.

“These are the types of places
you see up and down the streets
of New York City, not in
southwest Virginia,’ Mason
said.

Higgins and Korn bought the
building June 25 for $102,500 ac-
cording to courthouse docu-
ments. To finance the project
they took a 15-year, variable
rate loan for $82,500 at a 17.5
percent interest rate from the
United Virginia Bank of Lex-
ington.

“We started talking, about a
year ago, about having a place
in Lexington that would be a cut
above everything else,’ Mason
said. ‘‘Now it is a reality.”

 

y in the Co-op kitchen after a grease-fire caused $2,500

out and called the fire depart-
ment.”

“The Fire Department pre-
vented some real problems,”’
added Darrell, ‘‘They really
saved the building.’’

The wall behind the stove will
be rebuilt and the fire ex-
tinguishing system upgraded,
according to Darrell.

There were no injuries in the
mishap.

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

I need your head
in my business

Bar-hoppers chat Wednesday night at the crowded new Palms

 

Operahouse. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Calendar

Thursday, Sept. 23
5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: ‘‘Mithridates, he died old,’”’ James
K. Shillington, W&L dept. of chemistry. Howe 401. Preceded by tea

at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402.

7 p.m. — ARIEL: Literary Magazine Organizational Meeting

Fairfax Lounge.

Friday, Sept. 24
7&9p.m. — FILM: Rebel Without a Cause, University Center

Conference Room. Admission $1.

Saturday, Sept. 25
8:30 a.m. — Golf V.M.I.-W&L Invitational Golf Classic. Lex-

ington Country Club.

Water Polo W&L Invitational. Twombly Pool.
7 & 9 p.m. — FILM Rebel Without a Cause, University Center

Conference Room. Admission $1.

AWAY Athletic Events: Football: Centre, Cross Country:

Washington College.

Sunday, Sept. 26
8:30 a.m. — Golf V.M.I.-W&L Invitational Golf Classic. Lex-

ington Country Club.

Water Polo W&L Invitational. Twombly Pool.
7 &9p.m. — FILM: Rebel Without a Cause, University Center

Conference Room. Admission $1.

Away Athletic Event: Soccer: Haverford.

Wednesday, Sept. 29
Away Athletic Event: Soccer: Mary Washington.

Placement & Interviews

Tues., Sept. 28 — Uni. of
Alabama — MBA — 1 p.m. to 4
p.m,

Tues. Sept. 28 — Rice Univ.
—MBA — 9a.m. to noon.

Wed., Sept. 29 — New York
Univ. — MBA — 9a.m. to noon.

Fri., Oct. 1 — Duke Univ. —
MBA 9 a.m. to3 p.m.

Fri., Oct. 1 — Loyola Univ.,
New Orleans Law — 9 a.m. to
noon.

For an appointment see
Carole Chappel in the Place-
ment Office or call extension

FLORIST &

GREENERY

“For the coldest beer in town”

411 Lime Kiln Lane
i Lexington, Va.

Rnatlindiiteditndlidiie it ith oe oi eS ees

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9152

9South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.

teat tit tie tite tite tie ti te ie eee ea

       
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982

    

 

 

 

 

   
     
   
   

(\ Se€ Now! You WANT T
BLACKBALL MY FAVORITE

Don'T You!?

 

 

 

Plant aah

Students and professors took advantage of a plant sale this week

Ze

in front of the Co-op. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

AIR FARES
INCREASE

OCT 1 — BUY EARLY — SAVE!

Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

a

WINTER SKI TRIPS

Call Now

     

Mb Vy Ui
}U YA

WELL, NO-SI?-EE-BoB! He's

THE GEST COMPUTER PROGRAMER
| EVER MET. HE HAS A TRS-30
DISC-DRINNE PROGRAMED To
PLAY PARCHEES!. YOU CAN'T
BALL HIM!!

Jp ye

2
Wh A .
ie, <F7 SS

MOMA

“The American Scene:
1920-1940,”’ is an exhibition of 42
prints from the collection of the
Museum of Modern Art, New
York, will be on view in the
W&L duPont Gallery until Oct.
8.

The duPont Gallery is open
from 9 to 5 each weekday, from
11 to 3 on Saturdays, and from 2
to 4 on Sundays. Admission is
free.

“3 <

New

by Charles Thompson

An anonymous alumnus of
Washington and Lee has made a
gift to the university to
establish the Shannon-Clark
Lectures in English. The newly
established program will sup-
port an annual lecture in
English or American literature
by a visiting scholar.

The Shannon-Clark lectures

4

ALOHA WOK

463-9342

   

 

  
 

ae

——

  

 

ACTUALLY, ALFONSO, WE
ALL LIke HIM. BuT Wwe

   
      
 
 

 

 

 

Minorities

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity has received a $15,000 grant
from the Hearst Foundation
Inc. of New York, to be used for
financial aid for minority
students

The Hearst Foundation was
established in 1935 by the late
William Randolph Hearst, with
assets valued at more than $42
million.

The Hearst Foundation grant
is the third such grant
Washington and Lee has receiv-
ed to support minority student
aid in the last 15 months.
Earlier, the Gannett Founda-
tion made a $10,000 grant and
the Hillsdale Foundation made
a $24,000 grant.

speakers series funded

in English series honors both
Edgar Finley Shannon, a
former member of the W&L
English faculty, and Harriet
Fishburn Clark, a grandmother
of the donor.

Shannon was head of the
English Department at W&L
from 1914 through his death in
1938. He was a_ recognized
authority on Chaucer and

Chinese, Polynesian, and

American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails

Open Tuesday through Sunday

——wW

Luncheon 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner 5 - 10

Closed Saturday Luncheon

Sunday Lunch Buffet 12 - 2:30

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

Music

Fourteen members of the
Washington and Lee University
Glee Club will be appearing in
the Southwest Virginia Opera
Society’s production of Giusep-
pe Verdi’s ‘‘Rigoletto’’ in

Roanoke this month.

Performances are Sept. 24
and 25 at 8:15 p.m. in Olin Hall
at Roanoke College.

  

authored a standard work on
the subject, “Chaucer and the
Roman Poets.”” Shannon was
also instrumental in the
development of the university
library’s holdings.

The first speaker in the series
will be his son Edgar Finley
Shannon, Jr., a former presi-
dent of the University of Virgin-
ia. Shannon is a member of
W&L’s board of trustees and a
noted authority on Tennyson.
The date of Shannon’s lecture
will be announced soon.

The Shannon name will be
linked in the endowment with
that of Mrs. Clark, a daughter
of native Virginian Samuel
Allen Fishburn. It was her often
expressed desire that her
grandchildren receive a sound
education that inspired one of
them to endow a lectureship in
her memory.

We Care For You in A

Very Personal Way

 

Aspirin 100’s 59c

Pro-T. Brush 2/$1.15

Aspirin 250’s $1.19 ' *

 

BIERER’S
PHARMACY

ONE NORTH MAIN STREET

(CORNER OF WASHINGTON)
LEXINGTON, VA

463-3119

 

 
5.

* ott

 

omseamenee seamrsame enema

I ANN AION, ING,” eR, meme

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982, Page 5

 

 

Review

Offenders: Good
but better when loud

by Edwin Bell

The Offenders (i.e. Bruce Olsen and the Offenders) have played
for W&L several times and seem to be a crowd favorite. The band is
composed of Bruce Olsen (guitar and vocals), Terry Garland
(guitar and vocals), Chris Link (drums), and Richard Cowles (bass
and vocals). Generic Records, a local label in Richmond, has just
released the Offenders’ debut album titled ‘“The Record.”

Although the album contains a generous amount of songs, 12,
most only range from 2 to 4 minutes in length. ‘“‘The Record” opens

with “Genuine Kamakaze Weekend”’ a song fairly reminiscent of |

the W&L phrase of work hard, party hard. It seems to be written
with W&L in mind with lines like ‘I Love the Girls’ Schools.’’ The
following song ‘‘Wait and See”’ contains a nice guitar solo but the
lyrics become redundant. In the third song ‘‘Hard On Baby”
Richard Cowles sings with a much more sharp and biting voice
than Olsen’s, which is like Jagger’s in that he makes the lyrics in-
distinguishable. While the next song, also by R. Cowles, tells the
story of a pessimistic future (‘‘no good times remain’), it contains
a pleasant catchy guitar riff. ‘‘(Immediate Relief” starts to reveal
what most of the Offenders’ songs are about — sex (‘‘temporary
love affairs’).

The last and longest cut on the first side called ‘Hearts Break
Down’”’ is probably the best. It has a nice Tom Petty sound and a
great guitar solo at the end. The second side of the album starts out
strong but then slowly falls apart. ‘“‘Just For Fun’’ is another sex
song (“‘I won’t use any whips and I broke all my chains’’) and ‘“‘Up-
town Boy” continues this theme while containing some nice-sax
work. The rest of the second side ‘‘Maximum Assumption,”’ ‘“Runn-
ing From A Life of Crime,” ‘‘Who’s Gonna Pay the Bill,” and
‘‘Money Machine’’ continue the theme of faulty lyrics.

The pluses of the album are Richard Cowles’ vocals on his three
songs and Chris Link’s rhythmic drive from the drums. The minus
is the songwriting on most of the cuts.

In closing, one hint should be revealed. As with the early Stones’
._Tecords, the album sounds much better when played at a high
volume. yet, overall, 1ur vneir first ettort the album remains a gooa

start.

in applying

 

  
 

anal

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Executive Committee debates the date of Fancy Dress. From left, president Bennett Ross,
secretary Mike Singer, law rep Ken Terwillinger and senior rep Peter Baumgartner. (Phi photo by

Robert Miller)

EC meeting

(continued from page 1)

motion to vote, “all we’ll be do-
ing is heating up the debate.”’

But Ross said he thought the
students ‘‘should have an oppor-
tunity to speak.”

Junior representative Ted
McQuiston echoed this senti-
ment — “I'd feel uneasy casting
my vote on what I’ve heard
tonight.”

Students interested in voicing
their opinions on this matter
were urged to attend the next
EC meeting, Monday night at
6:30 in the EC Room of the Stu-
dent Center.

In other action, the EC voted
to lend Kevin Kelley, president

 

Yale School of Management
will be on campus Wednesday,
September 29, 1982 2:00-3:00 p.m.

to talk with students interested

 

 

of the sophomore class, $300 to
help cover the expenses of the
Sophomore Class Homecoming
party. The money is to be

repaid on the Monday or Tues- ©

day following the party.

The Committee announced
that budget requests are due on
the 27th and that budget hear-
ings will begin on Thursday,
September 30, at 5 p.m.

The final action was a deci-
sion to donate $200 to the
Stonewall Jackson Hospital
Auxiliary in the name of the late
Mrs. Roy Lee Steinheimer Jr.,
wife of the Dean of the Law
School.

Ariel

The Ariel, W&L’s student
literary magazine, is now ac-
cepting manuscripts and photo-
graphs for possible publication.
The staff will consider short fic-
tion, poetry, plays, and essays
for the Fall edition.
Manuscripts should be placed in
the Ariel mailbox in Payne
Hall.

Additionally, any student in-
terested in working on the staff
is encouraged to attend the
organizational meeting tonight
at 7 in the Fairfax Lounge of the
University Center. If you can-
not attend this meeting or want
more information, call Rick
Swagler at 463-9206.

 

 

the game.

 

WHAT A
WEEKEND!

SATURDAY, SEPT. 25 the
VMI KEYDETS invite you to
join them in Lexington for a

full dress parade at 11:30, a
barbecue chicken lunch at

noon, the destruction of
CENTRAL FLORIDA at 2,
and the Original Drifters, the
Band of Oz, and the Chairmen
of the Board in concert at

7 pm for $3.00 if you attend

Join us.

YOU WON’T
BELIEVE THE
SPIRIT:

 

 
 

a

Phi waxes poetical in new supplement

by Todd Smith

Poetry in the Phi?

This week we are kicking off the Phi Literary Supplement with
two artists’ insights into the man who set our school on the cur-
ricular and philosophical path we still follow today: Robert E. Lee.
"The Killer Angels,” reviewed by Steve Jones on the next page,
shows The Battle of Gettysburg through the eyes of its main par-
ticipants, including Lee.

The other glimpse into the personality of the emotional ‘‘marble
man’”’ comes from the poem ‘‘Lee in the Mountains,” written by
Donald Davidson.

Davidson was the most “unreconstructed” of the Southern
Agrarian writers when he wrote the poem in 1938. Agrarians believ-

ed, in the tradition of Thomas Jefferson, that the farmer and the
planter were God’s chosen people. Davidson manned the bulwark
against the 20th century and its mechanized undoing of the
Southern way of life.

But Davidson passes up the opportunity to have Lee exort us to
“save our Confederate money.” In this poem, we see Lee playing
with the idea of carrying on the Civil War, now over, by taking it up
into the Blue Ridge mountains. The idea quickly passes, however,
as he remembers the ‘‘beardless boys (who) go up to death’’ and
“‘the weeping of young women.”’

We are left we the aging Lee, president of Washington College,
working on his father’s memoirs for publication and encouraging
his students to, as it were, lift up their eyes unto the hills.

“Lee in the Mountains,”’ by Donald Davidson

Waiking into the shadows, walking alone
Where the sun falls through the ruined boughs of locusts
Up to the president’s office....
Hearing the voices
Whisper, Hush, it is General Lee! And strangely
Hearing my own voice say, Good morning, boys.
(Don’t get up. You are early. It is long
Before the bell. You will have long to wait
On these cold steps...)

The young have time to wait.

But soldiers’ faces under their tossing flags
Lift no more by any road or field,
And I am spent with old wars and new sorrow.
Walking the rocky path, where steps decay
And the paint cracks and grass eats on the stone.
It is not General Lee, young men...
It is Robert Lee in a dark civilian suit who walks,
An outlaw fumbling for the latch, a voice
_ Jommanding ina dream where no flag flies.
My father’s house is taken and his hearth
. eft to the candle-drippings where the ashes
Vhirl at a chimney-breath on the cold stone.
can hardly remember my father’s look, I cannot
\nswer his voice as he calls farewell in the misty
“lounting where riders gather at gates.
ie was old then — I was a child — his hand
leld out for mine, some daybreak snatched away.
And he rode out, a broken man. Now let
His lone grave keep, surer than cypress roots,
The vow I made beside him. God too late
Unseals to certain eyes the drift
Of time and the hopes of men and a sacred cause.
The fortune of the Lees goes with the land
Whose sons will keep it still. My mother
Told me much. She sat among the candles,
Fingering the Memoirs, now so long unread.
And as my pen moves on across the page
Her voice comes back, a murmuring distillation
Of old Virginia times now faint and gone,
The hurt of all that was and cannot be.

Why did my father write? I know he saw

History clutched as a wraith out of blowing mist
Where tongues are loud, and a glut of little souls
Laps at the too much blood and the burning house.
He would have his say, but I shall not have mine.
What I do is only a son’s devoir

To a lost father. Let him only speak.

The rest must pass to men who never knew

(But on a written page) the strike of armies,

And never heard the long Confederate cry
Charges through the muzzling smoke or saw the bright
Eyes of the beardless boys go up to death.

It is Robert Lee who writes with his father’s hand —
The rest must go unsaid and the lips be locked.

If all were told, as it cannot be told —

If all the dread opinion of the heart

Now could speak, now in the shame and torment
Lashing the bound and trampled States —

If a word were said, as it cannot be said —

I see clear waters run in Virginia's Valley

And in the house the weeping of young women

Rises no more. The waves of grain begin.
The Shenandoah is golden with new grain.
The Blue Ridge, crowned with a haze of light,
Thunders no more. The horse is at plough. The rifle
Returns to the chimney crotch and the hunter’s hand.
And nothing else than this? Was it for this
That on an April day we stacked our arms
Obedient of a soldier’s trust? To lie
Ground by heels of little men,
Forever maimed, defeated, lost, impugned?
And was I then betrayed? Did I betray?
If it were said, as still it might be said —
If it were said, and a word should run like fire,
Like living fire into the roots of grass,
The sunken flag would kindle on wild hills,
The brooding hearts would waken, and the dream
itir like a crippled phantom under the pines,
\nd this torn earth would quicken into shouting
3eneath the feet of ragged bands — .
The pen
Turns to the waiting page, the sword
3ows to the rust that cankers and the silence.
Among these boys whose eyes lift up to mine
Within gray walls where droning wasps repeat
A hollow reveille, I still must face
Day after day, the courier with his summons
Once more to surrender, now to surrender all.
Without arms or men I stand, but with knowledge only
I face what long I saw, before others knew,
When Pickett’s men streamed back, and I heard the tangled
Cry of the Wilderness wounded, bloody with doom.
The mountains, once I said, in the little room
At Richmond, by the juddled fire, but still
The President shook his head. The mountains wait,
I said, in the long beat and rattle of siege
At cratered Petersburg. Too late
We sought the mountains and those people came.
And Lee is in the mountains now, beyond Appomatox,
Listening long for voices that never will speak
Again; hearing the hoofbeats come and go and fade
Without a stope, without a brown hand lifting
The tent-flap, or a bugle call at dawn,
Or ever on the long white road the flag
Of Jackson’s quick brigads. I am alone,
Trapped, consenting, taken at last in mountains.
It is not the bugle now, or the long roll beating.
The simple stroke of a chapel bell forbids
The hurtling dream, recalls the lonely mind.
Young men, the God of your fathers is a just
And merciful God Who in this blood once shed
On your green altars measures out all days,
And measures out the grace
Whereby alone we live;
And in His might He waits,
Brooding within the certitude of time,
To bring this lost forsaken valor
And the fierce faith undying
And the love quenchless
To flower among the hills to which we cleave,
To fruit upon the mountains whither we flee,
Never forsaking, never denying
His children and His children’s children forever
Unto all generations of the faithful heart.

1938

bey
Shaara tal
hs SN /

by Steve.

Seldom can one find a historical
documented fact and yet contains
lack: believable personalities anc
Shaara succeeds with “The Killer
winning recreation of the Battle o:
perspective of the key particip:
thoughts and words, Shaara illustr
dramatic battle must have been lik«

Any insight into this battle mus
general strategies of the two ar
Robert E. Lee, having previously «
Hooker, was confident that he cou
morale of the Confederates was at
Union army soundly at every tur
RQ should not press north into Union t

war. Also, the fields and orchards
support the burden of feeding the
went.

Union newspapers were outragec
clamored for Hooker’s replaceme
vowing to track Lee down and en;
rebels back across the Potomac. §
Lee during the three day battle oi
narration among Lee’s second in
U.S. General John Buford, and'U.
Shaara masterfully presents thedi
only as much as the principles kno\

The effect upon the reader is |
course which the battle finally did '
should, or should not, have been m
conditions which led to the mistake

For example, General Lee has
morale and needs of his men and s¢
way to keep the spirit of the cause ;
of attacking from poor ground and
tics. Longstreet ultimately fores
Lee’s fabled “‘Pickett’s Charge,”
sp anyway. ve
“+ On the Union side, General Bufc

strategy. Having trailed the Conf
; first to realize that they are conve
reinforcements, Buford chooses
defends it bravely until the infa:
gambling decision by Buford give:
tage in the ensuing battle. ¢

Chamberlain also provides a f
professor thrust into commar
Chamberlain must hold the rebels
his troops to affix bayonets and «
cond day for the Union. r

While sticking to historic fact,
his interpretaion of the battle. Fi:
the clashes themselves, in a hn
Crane’s style in “The Red Beds
carefully explains the strategy a
clear, readable maps, thus enabii
behind the actions. ¥

; Shaara stresses the role of fault
fa progression. Lee does not know, fi
Meade has replaced Hooker. .L
displacement of troops because
“joyriding” through Maryland an
ing information. All this could hay
mation could have changed Lee’s |

Shaara’s intention of giving a‘)
count of any story about the Battle
ed. Any story about so grave a «
Shaara tells this story with clarit
recommended especially to al} t!
and absolutely to those interested

oO 0 A™
500 1000 .

Yards

   
 

 

Al

 
ent

 

=—2 -

4%

eo @

Sbatyese

e
®

ces you t

NO
Jones

novel which never sways from
; what the works of historians
i genuine sensitivity. Michael
Angels,” a 1975 Pulitzer-prize-
f Gettysburg. Writing from the
ints and reconstructing their
‘ates what the Civil War’s most
it begin with knowledge of the
mies. Confederate commander
jefeated Union commander Joe
ld whip Hooker anywhere. The
a peak, for they had beaten the +
‘n. Lee saw no reason why he
erritory and attempt to end the
of central Pennsylvania would
Army of Virginia. So north he

>

i by the invasion, and politicians
nt. George Meade was chosen,
gage him, hopefully forcing the
ihaara looks through the eyes of
f July, 1863. He also rotates the
| command, James Longstreet,
S. Col. Lawrence Chamberlain.
iffering viewpoints by disclosing
v, day by day, hour by hour.

otal involvement. Knowing the
take, one realizes what decisions
iade. But one can understand the
S.

a genuine understanding of the
2es attack and victory as the only
alive. Longstreet sees the danger
urges caution and defensive tac-
ees disaster as the outcome of
but he sends his men up the hill

ord is our first insight into Union
ederate army unseen, Buford is
rging at Gettysburg. Banking ony
the ground for the battle, and
itry arrives to the rescue. This
3 the Union an immediate advan-

ascinating viewpoint. A college

Gettysburg, ]

RODES

se

i
r

is
_

id of the Maine Volunteers, ¢- gz

5 without ammunition. He orders }: -
tharge — thereby saving the se- {*-

o~
~

Shaara uses two fictional tools in
rst, he uses graphic evocation of
nanner reminiscent of Stephen) -.
re of Courage.” Second, Shaara
nd tactics of the two sides using
ing the reader to see the reasons

‘y communications in the battle’s
or example, that the ill-tempered
ee does not know of the Union
‘ his scout, J.E.B. Stuart, was

bes de

ae
c woe -“ Loans

ws

d Pennsylvania instead of gather-A °.*.
re been very different. Such infor- ) .

plans.
vivid, dramatic and sensitive ac-
of Gettysburg is surely recogniz-

y and ease. The Killer Angels” is fs
hose interested in the Civil War, ‘
in reading a good book.

ett

a)
ee
ae
a

  

 
   

 
 
 
 

  

\y
b™
tonflict is to objectively tell, but! Ba.

A
eos
a
vee

ae ae ce ¥¢ ;
or gear E: SyKES Lee’s plan for
Tita Pickett’s charge
Hy 4 Big Round Top |

5;

/

863

“yee

se ql ceee,
oltee

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

Excerpt ;

(The following excerpt is from “The Killer Ange s,” copyright 1974
by Michael Shaara, and published by Random House Inc., New
York, N.Y. Here Robert E. Lee is seen on the night following the se-
cond day of the battle of Gettysburg. )

Lee moved off into the dark pasture. Now in motion he was aware
of stiffness, of weakness, of a suspended fear. He moved as if his
body was filled with cold cement that was slowly hardening, and
yet there was something inside bright and hot and fearful, as if
something somewhere could break at any moment, as \f a rock in
his chest was teetering and could come crashing down\ He found
the dark horse in the night and stood caressing the warm $ in, thick
bristly mane, feeding sugar, talking.

Two alternatives. We move away to better ground, as Longstreet
suggests. Or we stay. To the end.

cea Lee knelt and began to pray. His engineer’s mind went on
thinking while he prayed. He could find no flaw: we will go up the
center and split them in two, on the defense no longer, attacking at
last, Pickett and Hood and McLaws. By the end of the prayer he
was certain: he felt a releasing thrill. This was the way, as God
would have it. Face to face with the enemy, on grounds of his own
choosing. End with honor.

  

THIRD DAY -
-2:30 P.M.-

    

 

  
 
    

  

 

     

 

Exquisite
Imported

Cheeses

HOURS:

Mon.-Sat. 9 am-l am
Sun. 10 am-l am

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA
463-3338

 

 

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982

YoU CAN SAVE MONEY
AT:

“lee Rep Front Grocery

309 N. Main Street

eWeekly Specials 463-4878

eQuantity Discounts
eEvery Day Low Prices
eDelivery Available
— eWe Rent “KEG-TAINERS”
(Keeps Kegs Cold WITHOUT Ice)

WE STOCK A FULL LINE OF KEGS

S
+i KX. Busch , $7.50 Case
WEE 12 0z. Cans a $] 89 Six Pack

$6.95 Case

Canada Dry Mixers
12/28 oz. Bottles

 

me 2 Liter Bottles $1 29 Each
Pee
| NATIONAL California Cellars Wines
1.5 Liter

  

BOHEMIAN
Daan

$4.89

 

12 oz. Returnables

$4 " FF ons

Plus Deposit
The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982, Page 9

 

 

Freshmen muscle through orienting bustle

by Mike Allen

The class of ’86, the 360
newest members of the Wash-
ington and Lee community, has
gotten off to a strong, quick
start.

Their year began with a
rigorous orientation schedule
which included more than eight
hours of meetings in Lee
Chapel. The end of these seem-
ingly interminable proceedings
was celebrated Wednesday
night with a chip-in bash in the
Graham-Lees quad.

Dean of Freshmen Robert
Huntley said he was pleased
with how the first week went,
although it was somewhat dif-
ferent this time from previous
years. “It was a more ragged
orientation than in the past,’’ he
said recently ‘‘We compressed
five days of orientation into
three. Before, we had a more
leisurely pace, but this year, we
moved so quickly that once a
mistake was made, there was
no turning back. My nerves
were in a_ ragged state,”
Huntley said.

Still, he prefers the shorter
orientation period. ‘‘If I could
find a way to do it in one day, I’d
do it,’’ he said. The more com-
pact schedule was introduced
this year in order, says Dr.
Huntley, ‘‘to alleviate the
boredom I sometimes saw on
students’ faces.”’

Because the Graham-Lees
dormitory had just been reno-

vated, there were the usual in-
conveniences that go with open-
ing a new facility. Doors that
didn’t open, keys that didn’t
work, and furniture that was
stuck all came up, but Dean

the freshman class would tell
me what they found redundant,
unnecessary, and unhelpful,”
he said. Presumably, positive
remarks would be welcomed,
also.

 

“We compressed five days of
orientation into three.........my nerves

were in a ragged state.”

--Dean Huntley

Huntley says ‘‘we just hustled a
little harder and a little faster,
and we got it worked out.’’

Huntley, who is also director
of the Outing Club on campus,
described this year’s freshman
class as ‘‘an especially good
group.”’ He says that professors
who are advisors have reported
back to him that the students
this year have been much more
familiar with the registration
procedures than some have
been in the past. Also, he says,
they’ve been ‘“‘asking more
penetrating, substantive ques-
tions regarding classes, ma-
jors, and career choices, - and
have really been thinking
seriously about their futures
here.”’

Next year’s first week of
school is already being planned,
and Dean Huntley says he
would appreciate some student
feedback to guide him. ‘‘I wish

One area in which he might
like to see some changes is the
selection of faculty advisers.
The system used, he thinks,
‘goes against the grain and the
logic of a liberal arts college.
The idea of a liberal arts educa-
tion is to explore broadly and
widely with no preconceived no-
tions.”’ When a student is given
a faculty adviser from a field in
which he has expressed _ in-
terest, that may put limits on
him. Dean Huntley pointed out
that an English professor in
unlikely to steer an advisee
toward changing his major to
chemistry, even if that might be
the best course for the student.
“I’m not sure we’re doing the
students a favor,’’ he says.

Huntley says this year’s
freshmen have a real advan-
tage in the quality of their dorm
counselors. ‘‘I wouldn’t stay in
this job for five minutes if it

weren’t for those 26 men,’’ he
says. “The service they per-
form for the university is
greater than any other single
organization on campus.”’ He
says they’re outstanding men
who often take the job because
‘{t’s a small way they can
repay the system for what their
dorm counselor did for them.’’

A major part of the first week
for freshman is registering for
classes, and Registrar Harold
Head believes it went ‘‘very
well — it’s the best we’ve ever
had. Everything went
smoothly. The students seemed
to respond to instructions, and
did what they were supposed to
do.”’

A question which frequently
comes up is why students aren’t
given their choice of time
period for each course. Mr.
Head says that the computer
just can’t do that — it’s hard
enough to balance the class sec-
tions and come up with a sche-
dule for each student that’s free
of conflicts. Mr. Head says we
have an excellent registration
system which makes it much
easier on the students than that
at almost any other school.

He’s also often asked why
they can’t give every student a
schedule which includes a lunch
hour. Every term, about 20-25
students are faced with a block
of classes that precludes eating
at the regular lunch hour. Mr.
Head says that until 1970, there
were no classes from 1-2,

eliminating the scheduling pro-
blem. Since then, though, it has
come up, but there’s really
nothing that can be done. ‘‘They
do have a choice, though,” he
says. They can add/drop free of
charge, or change their eating
habits.

Registration for the winter
term will be October 28 for
freshmen and on the three
previous days for upperclass-
men, and Mr. Head _ says
students should ‘‘already be
thinking about courses they
want to take in the winter.”’
Prior to registration, there will
be sheets posted showing when
sections of classes will be
meeting, and he says students
should consult these to work out
any conflicts in their schedules.
‘95 percent of it,’’ he says, ‘‘is
what’s in the catalog, but the 5
percent that’s been changed is
what can cause the problems.”

Associate Director of Admis-
sions Van Pate discussed the
new class from an admissions
point of view. ‘‘The only distinc-
tive characteristic of this class
is that there are no distinctive
characteristics,’’ he said. “‘It’s
one of the most diverse groups
we’ve enrolled in a long time.
It’s a strong class, academical-
ly, and there’s great geographic
diversity.’’ He says W&L men
tend to have been leaders in
high school, so we have a lot of
editors, class presidents, and
community leaders in the new
class.

 

  
 

 

 

than the son.

The Ring-tum Phi

Box 899

Hrs es cs ca SS SGD OOD OD OG HH CE MED GY CY HY CS SnD ul

Parents

Subscribe Now
to the Ring-tum Phi

Any parent who thinks his son is
going to write home once a week from
college is in for more of an education

~

Lexington, Va. 24450
Yes, please enter my sub-

scription to the Ring-tum Phi.
| have enclosed $72.00

z
ow
3
oe
ht a Pe i ee Yh Se a A NN aR

¢@re O08 6 6 8 08s 48 640 66 6 OS 8G 8 AEs 0 st i Oe A 4 tO 8

  

All issues
delivered right

to your mail box
every week of the

academic year for $72.00

 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982

Sports

 

Water polo places third with 3-2 mark

Slippery Rock claims title again

By Mike Stachura

The Washington and Lee water polo team began
play last weekend by placing third in the annual
W&L “Fall Classic’? tournament. Taking top
laurels again this year was Slippery Rock State
College, finishing with a 5-0 slate.

The Midshipmen of the Naval Academy pulled
into second place, losing only to the Rockets, while
the Generals came in at third place with a 3-2
record for the tournament. Rounding out the field
were Monmouth College (2-3), Johns Hopkins
University (1-4), and Kenyon College (0-5) who
finished fourth, fifth, and sixth respectively.

Commenting on his team’s showing in the tour-
nament, intense fourth-year head coach Page
Remillard said after Monday’s practice session,
“No, we weren’t satisfied with our performance.
We’re not where we expected to be at this point.
But,”’ he added, ‘“‘that’s not to say we aren’t
benefiting from this experience.”

Remillard cited mental errors due to fatigue
and an inability to concentrate on reading
defenses as key factors in the Generals’ two
losses. He also noted, ‘‘If we were going to lose
some games, this is the time to do it.”’

Generally Speaking

 

Something striking about NFL season

by G. Bruce Potter

The Generals began on an up note, winning their
first three contests of the tourney. W&L easily
disposed of their first opponent, Johns Hopkins,
19-9, then returned to take morning and afternoon
triumphs on Saturday over Monmouth and Ken-
yon, the former being a hard-fought one point vic-
tory.

Things reversed themselves Saturday night,
however, as the Generals came up against a
strong Navy team. The opportunistic Middies,
utilizing a fine passing attack coupled with a
tough-when-they-had-to-be defense, overcame the
obstinate Generals 18-16. In the tournament's final
match-up W&L went up against East Coast power
Slippery Rock. Fighting gamely, the Generals
made the Rock earn their 14-9 win.

W&L will play the role of host again this
weekend for the ‘‘Generals Invitational’? which
begins on Saturday morning. Visiting teams in-
clude George Washington, Florida, UNC-
Wilmington, and the Northern Virginia Club.
‘‘We’re hoping to win it,” said Coach Remillard,
who will be looking for improvement in the
squad’s play.

Notice anything missing from
the Cockpit ad on the facing
page?

That’s right, there’s nothing
in the ad about the Cockpit’s
wide-screen television on which
students can enjoy Monday
Night Football with Howard
and the gang.

And by now you've probably
figured out why. Right again,
the National Football League
players have gone on strike.
And although an avid pro foot-
ball fan, this reporter goes on

record as supporting the play-
ers for several reasons.

First, the average pro foot-
ball player only makes $84,000 a
year. Only, yousay?

Yes, only, because that is half
what the average baseball or
basketball player earns, and
the career of a football player is
considerably shorter, four
years on the average. Also, the
risk involved in playing pro
football is enormous. Just ask
Darryl Stingly, New England
Patriots wide receiver who was
paralyzed due to a football in-

jury several years ago.
Although the players’ original
request of 55% of the gross
revenues, about $19 million per
team per year, was un-
precedented, that demand had
been on the table for over 18
months with no response from
the owners. The owners finally
countered with an offer about
two weeks ago that did nothing
that the players wanted.
However, the players were
willing to bargain in an attempt
to prevent a strike, and they

(continued on page 11)

 

Freshman Tim Stanford fires a goal (above) against Johns
Hopkins on Friday in the W&L “Fall Classic.” Below, a Hopkins
defender puts pressure on the ball. (Phi photos by Bruce Potter)

SERVIOTAR.

Wednesday N mar Tie Cas
a
' LEXINGTON HARDWARE
'
i
i

Each Wednesday night 5:30
tramurals will begin today with

TTS TE SEO eer Whee TEL Be
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and <a competition in football and ten-

Garlic Bread you can eat for ms.

Activities in these two sports
TY

will continue through October
cS 9 iy iy 14, and the playoffs will be held
600 E. Nelson St. Lexington PHONE 463-7000

IM’s open today

Washington and Lee In-

   
  

463-2242

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

+ ER GS © ORE © EE 6 6 EE 6 EE 6 © RE © le @

from October 15 to October 20.

The intramural golf tourna-
ment will be held on October 4
and 11.

Journalism 101

 
      
    
 
  
    
 

Lexington Lighting

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* ©
j WHITE FRONT SUPERMARKET | 4 f pe it
1167 S. Main St. 3 463-3106 6 Your Study Lamp Headquarters See Mrs. Cook.
i > W. Washington St. Reid Hall
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!! mo
é We offer many services that will benefit ° Lexington Pres cripti on C enter amric eridan
you this school year. i JEWELERS
i — aia sil Nia A aes 11 West Washington Street
C Accounts for Groceries ( Bill Can Be Sent Home « : ks
i a gal Govan temes, (Will Help Buy Supplies For Dorm Or ‘ Lexington, Virginia 24450 Watches and
‘ Fraternity Needs)  * d Jewelry Repairs
e* Fine Quality Meats and Produce With as Competitive Prices Fr rescriptions, dental products,
As Any Of The Chains i :
i * Weekend Specials On Beer And Wines men’s after shaves and colognes GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
ik Complete Wine Department With Competitive Prices. i f : Hand Engraving & Class Rings
' % Free Deliveries To Fraternities. and other toiletries.
ociectmedintane amides aia 11W. Nelson 463-2022 ”

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1982, Page 11

 

Generals use early lead
to down E&H, 21-15

by Andy Hoppes

Washington and Lee’s foot-
ball team opened its 1982 season
with a 21-15 win over Emory
and Henry College Saturday.

The Generals seemed ready
to bury the Wasps when they
opened a 21-6 halftime lead. But
Emory and Henry shut out the
Generals the rest of the way,
and almost rallied to win.

‘“‘We’ve got to get a little more
stamina. We can’t allow them to
get back in the ball game,”
W&L coach Gary Fallon said.

Junior quarterback Al
Paradise handled all three first
half touchdowns. Paradise
scored on runs of two and six
yards and hit junior Dave Judge
with a 24 yard touchdown
strike.

W&L scored on its opening
drive when Paradise plunged
into the endzone from two yards
out. A 33-yard halfback option
pass from senior Chris Caval-
line to classmate Jerry Thomp-
son and a 17 yard completion to
Cavalline highlighted the drive.

W&L’s second touchdown was
set up by a fine special-teams
play. Sophomore Bill ‘Morrow
blocked an E&H punt and junior
linebacker John Cole recovered
for W&L at the six yard line. On
the next play Paradise score on
an option run and senior kicker
Bill Devine nailed the extra
point for a 14-0 General lead.

Emory & Henry recovered a
fumble at the W&L 38 to set up
their first score. A 25 yard pass
from Chip Thayer to Steve
Larus put Emory & Henry back
into the game at 14-6.

Senior Ken Manganiello in-
tercepted an E&H pass at the
Wasps’ 28 to set up what proved
to be the winning touchdown for

While the W&L offense stalled
in the second half, Emory &
Henry rallied. The Wasps
scored on a 2 yard run by Henry
Ferguson at 11:29 of the third
quarter and on a 22 yard field
goal by Mike McElroy with 3:08
left in the fourth quarter to nar-
row the lead to 21-15.

On the next possession, W&L
consumed all by 45 seconds of
the clock, getting a crucial first
down on a 93-yard pass from
Paradise to Jerry Thompson.

When E&H finally got the ball
back they could pick up only one
first down before W&L line-
backer Don Kellermen picked
off an E&H pass to seal the vic-
tory for the Generals.

Defensively, the Generals
yielded 279 yards in the game,
but managed to turn in plenty of
drive-stopping plays. The
defense intercepted three Wasp
passes and recovered one fum-
ble.

Coach Gary Fallon had mixed
feelings about his team’s initial
performance. Fallon liked the
way his defense played in clutch
situations, but he stated, “I
don’t think we played a totally
good game offensively. We
were a little sporadic.”’

Paradise finished the day 12
of 17 passing for 123 yards.
Chris Cavalline was the Gener-
als’ leading rusher with 55

The Country Kitchen
An Old Fashion Bakerv
leo,

Eat in or take out

 
 

yards on 19 carries. Cavalline
was also the leading receiver
with five receptions for 45
yards.

This Saturday W&L travels to
Danville, Kentucky, to take on
Centre College in a non-league
game. ;

W&L will go into the game
with three major injuries.
Senior tailback Pat McGuire,
sophomore fullback Danny
Jayne, and sophomore defen-
sive end Bill Morrow will pro-

bably all be lost for the season.

Generally Speaking

(continued from page 10)

responded by demanding only
50% of the television revenues,
which will be $2.1 billion over
the next five years. Although
television revenues are the
teams’ main source of income,
it was a true effort by the
players to really begin a
bargaining process.

The owners, however, re-
jected categorically the pro-
posal, and the strike was on.

However, one can merely
hope that both sides will sit
down at the bargaining table
and make an effort to reach an
agreement and inject excite-
ment back into Sunday after-
noons, especially since the Red-
skins are in first place.

  

 
   

  

Quarterback Al Paradise (5) ha

W&L. Dave Judge got the points Birthday and other special occasion

on the board for W&L with a 24 CAKES ij
yard catch of an Al Paradise . '
nas edits 9:00 loitin tas halt fs North Main Phone: 703-463-5691

<a © <a © <0 <0 <0 <0 EE 0 0 <a

: KEEPS (ORVNET GEER FROSTY COLD!

WITHOUT ICE OR ELECTRICITY

$11.00 for the
WEEK-END!

USABLE ANYTIME ANYWHERE

AVAILABLE THRU:

Green Valley Rent-Alls
call 463-4680 Monday thru Saturday

8 Ty Keg-Tainer will keep a 35° keg under LO°for

$7 SAR

    
  
   
   
   
   
   
      
 

  

RENT A...

 
   

 
    
    

  

  
      
    

 

24 hours w/o ice, in 80° heat.

   

Se STS ESTES Veet aes eeeees

eevee tiuweener

 

 

 

 

 

  

Mc 5
ae ee

ht Se Batis ait Bae ke %

nds off to fullback Ken Robinson
in the Generals’ 21-15 victory over Emory and Henry College last
Saturday. (W&L Photo)

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

September 28

‘It’s The Place To B”’

 

 

 
[Seer

PRESENTS RECORDING ARTIST | O ‘

MIKE SEEGER

THURS. 23 — 8:30 p.m.

   

LS) Meme Cy i 1 4
CO U3 ““108""

ER ae
meRock & Rou “”1Q8’’

EOI rrr irri rrr

 

DEES y thy

Km
HOURS
Mion. - Sat.

Ke eg

 

ON THE CORNER!! NELSON & JEFFERSON
THE UNIVERSITY {35
WASHING) TON ;

OCT 11999 pinches

Third Keydet dies after crash ~

by JOHN CLEGHORN
Stanley Ross, a second classman at Virginia
f Military Institute, died Tuesday night from injuries
suffered in an automobile accident in which two
other cadets and one Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College student were immediately killed Saturday,
a spokesman for VMI said.

Ross died in a Roanoke hospital where he had
_ been taken immediately after the accident Satur-

_ day morning.

Diane Elaine Doggett, a Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College student also injured in the acci-
dent, will undergo surgery to reset her broken jaw
this week. Despite injuries sustained in the acci-

oe
/ERSITY

dent, she is in stable condition, according to sources
in the Office of the Dean at Randolph-Macon.

At about 2:45 Saturday morning, a Plymouth
Horizon containing the 3 VMI students and 2
Randolph-Macon girls was travelling south on U.S.
11 in excess of 100 mph, according to police tests,
when the driver lost control of the vehicle. The
Plymouth turned on its side and skidded almost 500
feet before it plunged into the median and rolled
over several times.

The vehicle came to rest in the northbound lane
where it was then clipped by a vehicle driven by
Forrest Jenkins, a junior at W&L, and then hit

(continued on page 2)

 

( Phi photo by David Sprunt)

 

  

VOLUME LXXXIl

 

 

Rin

NUMBER 4

 

s-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, V

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S, POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

irginia September 30, 1982

 

 

Sloppiness cost FD $15,000,director says

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi Staff Writer

Of the more than $65,000 spent for last
year’s Fancy Dress Weekend, at least
$15,000 was lost through poor manage-
ment or bad planning, according to two
students associated with the event.

The ‘‘waste’’ was detailed by this
year’s Fancy Dress director, John
Haywood, and confirmed by former
SAB treasurer Randall Jacoby. It in-
cludes:

yvpaying $6,500 for decorative
lighting and the expenses of a Florida
lighting consultant and_ three
assistants,

vy paying more than $1,400 to two
women for designing the balcony
backdrop (materials not included),

vusing materials for the backdrop
that were unsuited and unnecessarily
expensive, and

paying Washington and Lee $6,000
for the morning-after clean-up.

Haywood cited John Martin and Bob-
by Schmidt as the main contributors to
the overspending. Martin was a co-
chairman of the Student Activities
Board, and Schmidt chaired the
University Center Committee, which
answers directly to the SAB. Both Mar-
tin and Schmidt graduated last year.

Contacted at home in Richmond,
Martin challenged some of the figures
cited by Haywood and Jacoby. His
main objection to the allegations is that
the budget for Fancy Dress was set to
match expected ticket sales of 2,000.
When only 1,450 tickets were sold, the
finger-pointing began, Martin said.

“If we had sold all those tickets, you
wouldn’t be hearing any of this,’’ Mar-
tin said.

Martin also blamed the new location
for some of the over-runs. Last year
was the first time Fancy Dress was
held in the new gym.

Haywood said that a large part of the
$15,000 lost could have been saved if the
weekend’s Atlanta Rhythm Section con-
cert had been more successful.

The concert cost $21,000 to produce
and only collected $8,000 in ticket sales.
Haywood attributed that loss to poor
planning and said that a venture of this
type will probably not be tried in the
future.

Martin dismissed the allegation that

the ARS concert was poorly planned as
irrelevant.

Because the 1982 Fancy Dress budget
was vague and did not detail ‘‘miscella-
neous expenditures,” it is hard to tell
who’s closer to the truth —Martin or
Haywood.

But even a carefully prepared budget
could not settle the question, ‘‘Was the
$65,000-plus event worth it?”’

Haywood called many of the decora-
tion expenses ‘‘unnecessary.”’

The decorative illumination of the
two gyms was done by Frost II-
luminating Co. of West Palm Beach,
Fla. Four employees of the company
were flown up and paid $6,500 for work-
ing a day and a half hanging lights.

Haywood said that the lighting was
“‘good, but not worth $6,500.”’

The company was recommended by
Schmidt’s mother and Martin’s aunt.

Martin said he appeals to the students
to decide whether the lighting was
worth it, as he believed it was. He said
another lighting company was asked to
submit an estimate but that Frost was
more economical.

“This year, we don’t want to continue
that kind of outside help. Outside con-
tracting will only be used when it is ab-
solutely necessary,’’ Haywood stated.

Another bone of contention is the —

backdrop for the gym balcony, which
was made up to portray a Paris street.
For services that are not detailed in the
budget, Ellen Gervey and Karen Lee
were paid $650 and $770 respectively.

Martin said that Gervey had ex-
perience designing backdrops for the
W&L drama department and that Lee
was a local art teacher. He said that the
designing, painting and sewing they did
justified the $1,400-plus expense.

“It’s ridiculous to pay for work that
we could do ourselves,’’ Haywood said.

Furthermore, these two women were
contracted by Scmidt and Martin
without the permission of the SAB and
without open discussion, Jacoby and
Haywood said.

When asked about this, Martin said
he could not recall whether the board
had been informed.

This backdrop, Haywood claims, was
more expensive than necessary. Foam
board was used when corrugated card-
board would have been cheaper, he
said.

  

 

The materials were also unsuited for

the job. When the foam board was ©

painted, it warped and had to be hot-
glued to the wall of the balcony,
Haywood said. That added to the cost of
cleaning up.

The use of lighter-weight materials in
the backdrop and the use of an SAB
member to design it would have saved
approximately $2,000, Haywood said.
All expenditures for the backdrop were
approved by Martin.

Martin said that the budget for the
balcony was $2,000 and that he stayed
under that figure.

Because the list of miscellaneous sup-
plies for Fancy Dress was not itemized,
Martin’s claim cannot be immediately
backed up. Neither can Haywood’s
claim, for that matter.

Another unnecessary expense was
artwork, Haywood said. A Hollins Col-
lege student was paid about $200 for
various designs, including the invita-
tion. Haywood thinks this too should
have been done by SAB members.

Although Haywood, a sophomore,
does not think the SAB should do all the
cleanup, he said that this aspect was
much too expensive last year.

‘People were getting time and a half
for tearing paper off the wall,”
Haywood said. ‘‘Buildings and Grounds

 

did an excellent job, but it wasn’t worth
the money.”

Clean-up costs alone were $6,000, a
tenth of the budget.

Buildings and Grounds and the SAB
did not get their signals straight on the
clean-up, either. Haywood said the SAB
intended to take down the silver-colored
ceiling covering with its own members.
Instead, Buildings and Grounds took it
down and damaged it in the process.

Also, several ice-chests owned by the
Dining Hall were thrown out instead of
returned, according to former SAB
member Chris Peacock, who has
graduated.

The only thing that everyone agrees
on is this: the SAB can tighten its ac-
counting and spending procedures. SAB
chairman Lanier Edge stated recently
that access to SAB funds will be limited
more this year than last.

As it was, the system of sending out
checks did not allow accountants to tell
what the checks had been used for.

Haywood forsees little of the confu-
sion that marked last year’s Fancy
Dress in this year’s ball. He added that
under the leadership of Edge, the whole
SAB would run more smoothly.

‘“‘The number-one problem was hav-
ing two co-chairmen trying to handle
everything instead of delegating
authority,’’ Haywood said.

Bobby Schmidt and John Martin, second and third from left, pose for Calyx at
last year’s Fancy Dress ARS concert.

 

 
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982

 

 

 

Calendar

 

Thursday, Sept. 30
5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: ‘‘Light-induced binding of enzymes
to photoreceptor membranes”’ or ‘‘Gee... No, G.T.E.,’’ Scott W.
Hall, ’83. Howe 401. Preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402.
Friday, Oct. 1
Degree applications for December graduates due.
Homecoming
Law Council meeting. Lewis Hall.
Away Athletic Event: Water Polo: Slippery Rock Invitational.
Saturday, Oct. 2

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi E.C. correspondent

Fancy Dress will not be mov-
ed from its originally scheduled
date, March 4, the Executive
Committee decided at its Mon-
day night meeting.

Law school representative
Ken Terwilleger was expected
to make a motion to change the
date, which now falls on the
first weekend of a law school
vacation. At the Sept. 20 E.C.
meeting, Terwilleger suggested
that the event be moved to
March 18 to allow greater law
student participation.

After hearing from Student
Activities Board members John
Haywood (Fancy Dress direc-
tor), Townsend Oast and Len
Howard (SAB co-chairmen), no

Homecoming

Law Council meeting. Lewis Hall

8:30 a.m. — LSAT. Newcomb Hall.

10 a.m. — Soccer: Generals vs. Maryville College Wilson Field.

11:30 a.m. — Cross Country: Generals vs. Norfolk State Univ. &

Roanoke College.

1:30 p.m. — Football: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon. Wilson Field.

Homecoming Concert: Sponsored by the Student Activities Board.

Away Athletic Event: Water polo: Slippery Rock Invitational.
Sunday, Oct. 3

Homecoming

1 p.m. — Alumni-Varsity Lacrosse Game. Wilson Field.

Away Athletic Event: Water polo: Slippery Rock Invitational.

Monday, Oct.4 motion was made to change the
4:30 p.m.—Faculty Meeting: Northen Auditorium. date. The arguments were
Tuesday, Oct. 5 essentially the same as those

 

 

Away Athletic Event: Soccer: Roanoke College. heard last week:

vHaywood said that the
March 18 date would leave too
little time to decorate, and

~The March 18 date would
conflict with school work and
studying for exams.

vIn addition, the 18th is also
the weekend of Hollins’ Cotillion
and Sweet Briar students’
Spring Break.

In response, Terwilleger in-
troduced a motion that would
set up a sub-committee to
recommend to the E.C. a
method of making a ‘“‘monetary

 

Featuring Vintage Goods

<S FURNITURE, TOYS,

JEWELRY, RECORDS,
POTTERY,

GLASSWARE, AND
MORE...

Please Stop By!
207 S. Main St.

COLLECTABLES

 

allowance” to law students
because of their exclusion. This
allowance might take the form
of cheaper tickets or a larger
allotment of funds to the Stu-
dent Bar Association.

To justify tha: motion, Ter-
willeger commented that the
weekend was ‘‘adversely
scheduled’ regarding law
students, that it cut into their
break, and that there was a
“good sense of unfairness.”’

Vice President Morgan Grif-
fith came out against the mo-
tion saying it was ‘“‘too com-
plicated and sets a bad prece-
dent. We should defeat this now,
and remember it when the SBA
budget comes up.”’

Terwilleger countered, say-
ing “If we vote this motion
down, we’re going to dig a
deeper chasm,” referring to the
separation of the law and under-
graduate schools. In response,
Terwilleger withdrew his
original motion and introduced
a compromise motion.

The new motion asked that
the committee remember that
the law students were being
“denied” Fancy Dress when
considering the SBA budget.

The motion passed.

The Committee also discuss-
ed the student tax of $60 and
whether or not it should be rais-
ed for the 1983-84 academic year
to help defray the costs of Mock
Convention.

    
 

Wednesday Night Buffet

       
 

Each Wednesday night 5:30

 

Chinese, Polynesian, and
American Cuisine

Exotic Cocktails

 

   
    
  
   
 
      

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and - = A

Garlic Bread you can eat for

LOHA WOK

463-9342

 
 

 
 

Ss:
—~
=

 
 

+ {UCCdcas

600 E. Nelson St.

Lexington

wr

The “Columns” Welcomes All Students and Alumni to try our
delicious menu.

Specially Prepared Entrees — Luncheon & Dinner
COCKTAILS — BEER — WINE
FRI.: Wildgrass — LIVE ENTERTAINMENT — SAT.: The Monarchs

30 N. Main OPEN 11 A.M. tol A.M. 463-9331

| Sun. Buffet 12-12:30-$4.25]
“Carry-out Available”’
Open Tuesday through Sunday

Closed Saturday Luncheon
Sunday Lunch Buffet 12-2:30

 

 
    
         

Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10

 

FLORIST &
- GREENERY

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9152

EC settles FD question

Pete Baumgaertner introduc-
ed a motion that the student tax
remain at $60. Gunnar Jordan
of the Mock Convention Com-
mittee said that extra money
was needed ‘“‘to cover ex-
penses.”’

President Bennett Ross com-
mented that he thought it was
‘really mnecessary.’’ In
response, Baumgaertner
replaced his motion with a new
motion to increase the tax to $70
with the stipulation that $5 from
each student go to the Mock
convention. The other $5 is a
traditional raise to help support
new organizations.

Junior Representative Ted .

McQuiston asked if $5 was
enough, and Jordan replied that
the committee had really
wanted to propose a $10-per-
student appropriation. Ross,
however, replied that ‘‘they can
propose all they want,” and the
$70 student tax was approved.

In other business, Ross an-
nounced that (John Sancilio)
had been elected Freshman
Law Representative, and that
petitions for freshman elections
were due with 50 signatures on
Monday, October 8 in the EC
room. The elections will be held
on Monday Oct. 18.

Budget hearings have been
moved to Wednesday, Oct. 6, at
5p.m.

 

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO |

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

  

  

HOMECOMING SPECIAL

FRIDAY NIGHT -
BUD 12 PACK

SUNDAY NIGHT
*4.59

 
i

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982, Page 3

= a DN NEA REAR NSE LEE DASE AE OLDE SELES SLRS LEE REALL ALLELE LLL LLL LEA ELLELLIEL SIS LE ALLEL LSS LOL
SENSE ESSAI AFA APS EAE SANE SRL EE ELLA ALLEL ALLIES LAID LLL ALLE VEEL DAA LN DLL IESE LABELS ALLL SDL LAL ALLL ELLIE IEE.

By MIKE ALLEN

Phi Staff Writer
The complex legal battle for
‘e possession of Col Alto, the
storic Lexington house now
wned by Washington and Lee,
ill continue for some time as
2 result of a court ruling Mon-

ay.

U.S. District Court Judge J.
arry Michael upheld his ruling
‘ last June that a federal court
es not have jurisdiction in the
ise. The complete implica-
.ons of the judgment for either
de are unclear.

Col Alto, a large property
aar the Lambda Chi Alpha
aternity house, was given to
ie University by Rosa Tucker
4ason in 1957 with the stipula-
on that the University would
.ke possession upon her death.
he died in January 1961.

Laura Tucker Fletcher, 89,
.e sister of Mrs. Mason, is su-
ig for title to the house and $1
sillion in damages on the
-ounds that the property is not
ing used as Mrs. Mason in-
_nded when she bequeathed it
» the school.

The 17-room house, which sits
1a hill atop eight acres of pro-
erty on Lexington’s east side,
as built in 1827 by James
IcDowell, former governor of
‘irginia. Mrs. Fletcher’s suit,
‘led in April 1981, charged the
miversity with “neglect” of
ye property.

‘The building is now used
cimarily for storage. In the
ast, it has housed students and
‘een the site of informal social
unctions.

Frank Parsons, assistant to
V&L president Robert E.R.
iuntley, said Wednesday that
he property “has been used all
slong.” He added that Pro-
essors Hamer and Stevenson
urrently live in outbuildings,
r “‘dependencies,”’ of Col Alto.

Reached Wednesday at Judge
dichael’s chambers in Char-

et tt <b> @<aE 0-0

lottesville, clerk of the court
John MclIntosh detailed the
judge’s ruling for the Ring-tum
Phi. (Local newspapers have
misinterpreted the edict.)

Monday’s action was a sus-
tainment of a June 7 ruling.
This original ruling stated that
Mrs. Fletcher’s case, as filed,
cannot be heard in federal
court. Judge Michael’s ruling
“was just that he didn’t have
jurisdiction. . .he has not ruled
on the merits of the case,”
McIntosh said.

The June 7 decision would
have stood had not the the plain-
tiff (Mrs. Fletcher) appealed
the ruling. Judge Michael heard
additional arguments this sum-
mer and handed down the same
ruling as before.

Mrs. Fletcher’s attorney, E.
Griffith Dodson Jr., has said
that he will appeal the decision
to the Fourth U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in Richmond.
According to Mcintosh, that
court could overturn Monday’s
decision regarding jurisdiction.
and send the case back to Judge
Michael for a ruling on its
merits.

The question of jurisdiction is
a complex one. The case was
entered in federal court
because of ‘‘diversity” — Mrs.
Fletcher lives in Maryland, and
W&L is incorporated in Virgina.

So far, simple enough.

However, Judge Michael
dismissed the case because he

IMPORTED CHEESES

TONY SCHLOTTER
PROPRIETOR

DELI MEATS

BIG DELICIOUS DELI SANDWICHES

Ola Main Sandtnich Shoppe

OLD MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

Court balks Col Alto ruling

believes that Mrs. Mason’s
nieces and nephews, in addition
to Mrs. Fletcher, have an in-
terest in the case.

Therefore, they had to par-
ticipate, or ‘‘be joined,’’ in the
suit. Some of the nieces and
nephews live in Virginia, which
“destroys diversity,’’ McIntosh
said.

If any of the plaintiffs reside
in the same state as the defen-
dant, the case is then a matter
for the state court instead of the
federal court.

Dodson said Wednesday from

his office in Roanoke that he

and his client disagree with
Judge Michael’s statement that
the court had found ‘“‘beyond
doubt that Mrs. Mason’s nieces
and nephews have an interest
relating to the subject.”’

Will he appeal Monday’s deci-

sion? “That’s our plan,” Dod-

son said.
The length of the appeals pro-
cess, Dodson said, ‘‘depends on

the congestion of the docket of }

the the Fourth Circuit Court of
Appeals.’’ Dodson said he had

 

not talked to Mrs. Fletcher as

since Monday’s ruling, but that
he had mailed her the news.

He refused further comment
on the case.

Eric Lee Sisler, W&L’s at-
torney, declined to discuss the
litigation. “That’s not some-
thing I do. . .I don’t generally
talk with the press.”’

PARTY PLATTERS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Country Kitchen

An Old Fashion Bakerv

Eat in or take out

 

  

Birthday and other special occasion

CAKES

} North Main

 

Custom Designed Flowers
' Corsages for your date
; $3.50 and up
\ 8-5 Mon. - Saft.
223 S. Main St. 463-4521

 

 

Phone: 703-463-5691

ORES AIDES AEDES CRN EN OAM AE O ARE @ EERE S ACRE

"ERB The Flower Center

     
    

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   

(Phi photo by David Sprunt)

2nd Hand Shop
7 North Jefferson St.

Buy, Sell or Trade Anything New or Old
Also Music Shop and
Biue Grass Band Booking

 

PRES BROWN’S

New Skeet Shipment Is In!
1982 Woolrich Clothing

Now on Display

115 W. Nelson Street ¢ 463-5982

  
 
    
     
  

  

 

 

Lexington Prescription Center

11 West Washington
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Prescriptions, dental products,
men’s after shaves and colognes

and other toiletries.

  
 
  
 
  
 

  
 
 
  
  
 

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

I'need your head
in my business.

Street

  
  

 
  

9South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.

 

 

 

{
§

  
 
  
  

‘Hamric & Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

) GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

463-2022

 

11 W. Nelson

(

 

iGHS

The Dairy Store
BEER *WINE *SNACKS

463-2229

 

OPEN 7 DAYS 6-12

 

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982

 

  

O

 

pinion

 

 

 

  

ro A pictde e’s worth

Remember this photograph. Three VMI cadets and

engenders.

drinks.

a Randolph-Macon Woman’s College student died
because this car was abused. Police tests indicated
that this Plymouth Horizon was traveling at over 100
miles per hour when it flipped out of control Saturday "

morning.
| Whether the driver was intoxicated or just trying to
get back to the Post before curfew, this photograph
speaks to all of us about reckless driving. It speaks
more eloquently than any of us can about the sorrow
and frustration that brashness or stupidity

Don’t ask, ‘‘What makes Cadets do this?” Instead,
consider the times you or friends of yours came back
from a woman’s college too late or after too many

Remember this photograph. omy
The editors of the Ring-tum Phi -

 

The Ross solution

By TODD SMITH
Phi Editor-in-Chief.

Bennett Ross thinks he has a
solution to a big problem:
Budgets.

The Executive Committee
returned from summer vaca-
tion afraid that they were
dangerously low on money.
Representatives were unsure as
to whether the Interfraternity
Council was going to be able to
make the second payment on a
pledge of $7,500 for the Contact
speakers program. It was
rumored that the IFC had spent
the money on its Spring
Weekend because it had never
received a bill from the EC.

The IFC did pay off the rest of
the pledge by the start of school.
(It should be noted that the IFC
is not an EC subcommittee. )

But the problem remains —
Who is keeping track of student
funds? Your student activities
fee is increasing to $70 from $60
this year and $55 last year.
That’s a hefty jump, but it’s not
Ross’ solution.

Ross is president of the EC,

~ but his remedy depends mostly

on his vice president, law school
student Morgan Griffith. The
plan is for Griffith to sit down
with every subcommittee a cou-
ple of times each semester and
go over the University com-
puter‘s print-out of the subcom-
mittee’s expenditures.

Had the Student Activities
Board been answerable for its
expenditures, we students
might now be able to figure out
what happened to the $65,000 to
$70,000 spent on the Fancy
Dress Ball. According to last
year’s treasurer Randall
Jacoby and this year’s Fancy
Dress director John Haywood, a
great deal of that money fell
through the cracks.

As our page-one story in-
dicates, there is no reliable way
to figure out how much was
done by special consultants to
the SAB. Another problem is the
SAB practise of writing
vouchers out in the name of

Minks by Todd Smith

 

Rememeee, 'm Just

DOING THIS AS A FAVOR

FOR You GAMMA NUS.
You PROMISED THAT
| WOULDN'T WIN!

  

members (‘‘pay Joe Schmoe
$100”) so ‘that kegs can be
bought at the last minute.

But the IFC and the SAB are
not alone. All subcommittees
would benefit from a.better net-
work of communications on
financial matters. Even the
Ring-tum Phi found its books
slightly inaccurate when the
computer print-out was brought

in.

So the Ross solution depends
on Morgan Griffith. Our vice
president was an outstanding
member on the EC last year,
and is up to the job. Last year
Griffith first learned of the Ross
solution through a Phi staff
writer and scoffed. But Ross
has not backed down, and he
said Wednesday that Griffith
was now agreeable.

With the W&L Mock Conven-
tion shifting into high gear for
the spring of 1984, the EC must
take on the burden of clarifying
the budget system before more
money is lost. This means that
the overworked EC cannot kick
back and relax after ths
Wednesday’s budget hearings.
It’s a year-long job.

 

 

ING )

zeN |982--
MISS BUNNY
AIRBORNE!

8

ie

=a
WY) @

Wreck:

(continued from page 1)

directly in the right lane by a
car driven by Bill Thau, also a
W&L junior.

Both Thau’s automobile and
the Plymouth were judged as
total losses. The two students
escaped without injury.

 

All but one of the passengers
of the overturned vehicle were
thrown from the car, three of
whom were found in the me-
dian. The body of Margaret N.
Abbitt of Randolph-Macon was
trapped in the Plymouth and
was later cut from the vehicle.

The cadets who were im-
mediately killed in the accident
were James N. Bogosian and
Daniel F. Lawless. Both were
second classmen.

Ring-tum Phi

 

P.O. Box 899, Lexington, Va. 24450
The Ring-tum Phi is published every Tharsday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Beard elects the Editer-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum

Phi is otherwise

independent.
Letters to the Editer and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

Features Editor .............ccseeeeees

PA GRIBOIR 6 ooo oc as cccawevinscecoce

On pleeease, don't
moke me kiss hiv’

UY

Ce VAR OREM A bea cde 6 tgee Steve Perry

eed ee eer cceeeuevecee B. Scott Tilley
ves cuiaiaed Rick Swagler, Bill Roberts,

Charles Aicorn

creeks ewe Al Bryant, Charles King,
Brad Houston, Tim Mulraney, Jim Wood
The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982, Page 5

 

Reagan line on loans

The author, Edward Elmendorf, is Deputy Assistant Secretary for Stu-
dent Financial Assistnace in the Department of Education.

Newspaper, radio, and television reports of substantial cuts in
Federal financial aid to college students have triggered a barrage
of phone calls to the U.S. Department of Education in Washington,
D.C.

Callers, both students and parents, are often confused by
misleading or incomplete information. Many have expressed fear
that the government has let them down; that college is no longer af-
fordable.

It is true that student financial assistance programs have
undergone considerable change in the past two years, There have
been some reductions. Most of the changes, however, reflect an ef-
fort to return the aid programs to their original purpose, which was
to help students cover the cost of a college education — not carry
the whole burden. A successful return to original intent will help en-
sure the survival of these aid programs for future students.

Federal financial assistance is divided into three categories.
“Grants” are awards of money that do not have to be paid back.
“‘Loans’’ are borrowed money which a student must repay with in-
terest. “‘Work-Study” provides the chance to work and earn money
to off-set college costs while attending classes.

The Pell Grant Program is one of the best known of the Federal
student aid programs. Formerly called the Basic Educational Op-
portunity Grant, Pell is often the first source of aid in a package
which may be composed of other Federal and non-Federal sources. .
In the 1982-83 school year, 2.55 million students share $2,279,040,000
in Pell Grants.

 

  

>

c
U2

    
   

IN
The Cockpit
W&L STUDENT

ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

SUPER
GRIT

‘Cowboy

October 5

ye ee ee el ll ta ell I el a le el

"It's The Place To Be”

LF ET EE TSE OAS
rhe Fe tN ee a A eS a el Sal Dee I ek

 

 

 

 

 

The U.S. Department of Education uses a standard formula to
determine who qualifies for Pell Grants. Students should contact
the college financial aid administrator to apply on the free “‘Ap-
plication for Federal Student Aid.’’ This is the form used for all
Federal student aid programs. The Department guarantees that
each participating school will receive the money it needs to pay
Pell Grants to eligible students.

The Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant provides
another mechanism for making awards to students. SEOG is dif-
ferent from the Pell Grant in that it is managed by the financial aid
administrator of each participating college. Each school receives a
set amount of money from the Department and when that money is
gone, there are no more SEOG funds for the year.

In 1982-83 the Department of Education will provide 440,000
students with $278,400,000 in Supplemental Educational Opportuni-
ty Grants. Students will get up to $2,000 a year under this program.

Grant programs are designed to help the most needy students get
a college education. The Pell Grant, in particular, is targeted to
help those students whose families earn less than $12,000 per year.
Grant aid is not meant to cover all college costs but is expected to
be combined with a reasonable contribution from the student’s
family and individual self-help, generally in the form of loans,
private scholarships, and work.

Another type of student financial assistance is the College Work-
Study Program. Designed to provide on- or off-campus jobs for
undergraduate and graduate students who need financial
assistance, Work-Study is usually managed by the college financial
aid administrator. Some 950,000 students will receive $528 million
under this program in 1982-83.

A great deal of publicity has been generated lately on Federal
student loans, particularly the National Direct Student Loan Pro-
gram. Although all colleges do not participate in the NDSL pro-
gram, 3,340 of them do. This program makes available low interest
(5 percent) loans that students must begin repaying six months
after completing school (either by graduating, leaving, or dropping
below half-time status). Up to 10 years is allowed to repay the loan.
Application is made to a school’s financial aid adminstrator who
manages the loan fund. The fund is a revolving account, designed to
allow a school to continually make new loans as existing loans are
repaid. About 800,000 students will receive NDSLs in 1982-83; 10,000
more than in 1981-82.

Recently, Secretary of Education R.H. Bell signed a regulation
which provides incentives for an institution to reduce the default
rate of its NDSL program fund. A college which has a default rate
over 25 percent is asked to turn responsibility for collecting the debt
over to the Federal government. If an institution is not prepared to
do this, and the default rate remains 25 percent or more, the
Federal government will cut off NDSL funding.

The Guaranteed Student Loan Program, much in the news lately,
makes available low interest loans to students; with the Federal
government paying the interest while a student is in school. These
loans are made by a lender (such as a bank, credit union, or sav-
ings and loan association) and insured by either the Federal
government or a State Guarantee Agency. This, the largest student
aid program, will make available over $9.5 billion in loans during
the 1982-83 school year.

Undergraduate students can borrow up to $2,500 a year and
graduate students can borrow up to $5,000 under GSL. The total
debt an undergraduate can carry is $12,500. For graduate or profes-
sional study this figure is $25,000. A student borrower whose family
income is less than $30,000 automatically qualifies for an interest-
subsidized loan. Students whose family income exceeds $30,000
may still be eligible for GSL interest benefits if the college’s finan-
cial aid administrator determines that the student has
demonstrated financial need.

A new program started in 1981, called the Auxiliary Loan (or
PLUS) Program, allows parents, independent students, and
graduate students to borrow up to $3,000 a year. There is no income
cut off for eligibility. The interest on PLUS loans will be lowered
from 14 to 12 percent sometime in October as a result of lower
average U.S. Treasury bill interest rates.

As the economy continues to recover, we can expect a continued
lowering of interest rates, thus easing student repayment costs and
reducing Federal expenditures. In addition, the Reagan Ad-
ministration has embarked on a major initiative to collect delin-
quent and defaulted loans under the National Direct and
Guaranteed Student Loan Programs. It is anticipated that $80
million will be collected in 1983. Congress has been asked to allow
funds collected on delinquent loans to be recycled in the loan pro-
grams; under present law, such funds are returned to the
Treasury. Returning money to the loan funds would make more
money available to future college students.

Student aid reforms proposed by the Reagan Administration re-
establish the fundamental principle that a student and his or her
family share the primary responsibility for meeting college costs.
The Federal and State government have a role in bridging the gap
between what a family can reasonably contribute and the cost of at-
tending college. Only by maintaining its fiscal integrity can the
Federa! government continue to play its part in bridging this gap
through student aid programs.

 

Opinion

 

 

 

With freshman Executive
Committee elections Oct. 18,
it’s time to talk politics. Now,
in former times, the
greybeards tell me, campaigns
at W&L were wondrous things,
wrapped in bunting and
rhetoric. There was speechify-
ing and the kissing of babies,
the broaching of keys and the
slinging of mud. There was, in
short, fun.

No longer. I do not wish to
be disingenuous. I may very
well run for office again
myself. But regardless of

By Markham
S. Pyle

whether I do or not, I hope Our
Noble Leaders will see fit to
restore some color to the pre-
sent drab, pedestrian system
which elected them. One
longterm observer suggests
that this is in fact why they
don’t change the status quo,
that they feel lost without it. I
cannot say if this is true or
not. It is notable that, while
politics in general is the art of
the controversial, Our Noble
Leaders avoid same like Marx-
ists avoid Wall Street.
Whatever their motives for
promoting the present even-
handed dullness, I do know
that there is ample room for
improvement in the method
whereby we choose our
leaders.

One would assume, for in-
stance, that any public body
charged with the disbursment
of funds would by its alloca-
tions occasion controversy ;
and so it does. But no can-
didate for that august chamber
can, as matters now obtain,
address these issues while
campaigning. The most he can
do, really, is tape up some
hastily-crayoned posters and
hope it doesn’t rain. I have
racked the old grey matter
(which ain’t, I admit, what it
used to be), and I remain at a
loss for any rational explana-
tion for the status quo. I mean,
c’mon, guys, why aren’t there
speeches? I have often heard
electors lament that the most
they can do is vote for a
vaguely familiar face and keep
their fingers crossed.

It is only a combination of
dumb luck and the Grace of
God that has so far given us,
by and large, such decent and
diligent, if hardly notable, men
to serve us.

The remedy for this malaise
is, I am assured, a real cam-
paigning season, with
speeches, rallies, beer busts,
scandals and parades. I trust
Our Noble Leaders will lay
aside any purely personal con-
siderations and move to
restore what is at once a proud
tradition, a bold innovation
and just plain common sense.

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982

 

Wanted: Preppy, industrious minks

 

 

 

\

wel

 

 

Buddy Atkins addresses IFC Tuesday night. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

By B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Features Editor
Michael Raus, a sophomore

at American University in

Washington, says he noticed
two characteristics prevalent

among Washington and Lee

men: they are preppy, and they
are responsible and industrious
enough to handle a business of
their own.

Thus W&L became one of 12
schools at which Michael is now

attempting to sell a franchise of
his business, Rent-A-Prep.

Raus said the motto of the
company is “‘You name it, we

do it.”” From lawn mowing to

hedge work, housesitting to
bartending and painting, the
company rents out preps to take
care of customers’ needs.

The painters wear Rent-A-
Prep T-shirts and Duckhead
painters pants. Yard workers
sport madras shorts and

alligator shirts. Bartenders or
party-car-parkers don oxford
button downs, blazers, madras
slacks, and penny loafers.

   

Administrator night for the IFC

by JOHN HARRISON
Phi IFC Correspondent

Comments by Univeristy
Treasurer Stewert Epley and
Assistant Alumni Secretary
Buddy Atkins highlighted Tues-
day’s bi-monthly meeting of the
Interfraternity Council.

Epley emphasized the impor-
tance of each house keeping up
its payments to the school for
the mandatory maintenance
and operations program. Under
the program, which the Univer-
sity established in the summer
of 1980, inspectors go to each
house monthly to determine if
items such as stoves and elec-
trical wiring should be re-
paired. Each house pays a
minimum fee for the program.

Assistant Dean of Students
Dan Murphy told the Council
that questions about what
should and should not be
repaired should be directed to
James Arthur, Superintendant
of Buildings and Grounds.

After reminding the Council
that each chapter must submit
monthly financial statements,
Epley reemphasized that if a
house defaults on its monthly
payment, the school then has
the right to advertise the sale of
the house for four to six weeks.

Atkins stated that a major
concern of the Alumni Office is
alumni relations with their
fraternities.

In the interest of getting
alumni to support their houses
financially, he said, fraternities
need a project that alumni will
be willing to contribute to.

“Projects may vary from
house to house,” said Atkins;
“but they should lead to the
steady improvement of the
quality of the house. You want
to prove that present members
are interested in improving and
keeping up the house in order to
warrant their support,’’ Atkins
said.

Atkins added that his office
has received many com-
pliments from alumni who have
noticed the improvements in
the appearance of most houses
in the recent years.

IFC President Mason Ellerbe
reminded the Council that the
Lexington Police will not give
houses any more permits for
amplified music on weeknights.

After Ellerbe remarked that
the police’s new warning
system for loud music seems to
be working, Vice-President
Steve Jones and Murphy advis-

ed that the warning system
should not be taken advantage
of

Said Murphy, ‘The police
have been incredibly cooper-
ative about this, so don’t abuse
a

Murphy also advised the
houses against using the land
along the Maury River and the
area behind the Stonewall
Jackson House as sources of
bamboo for beach parties.

Chi Psi President Danny
Einstein told the council that he

would appreciate any coopera-’

tion in recovering $1,000 worth
of paintings and drawings that
were removed from the house
between 2 and 8 a.m. Sept. 19.

Phi Gamma Delta received
three weeks of probation from
the judicial Board of the IFC for
having a band on a weeknight.
Fiji President Chris Kibler said
the judgement would be appeal-
ed

Said Kibler, ‘‘We want to get
a thorough understanding of the
rules involved and what our op-
tions are. From what I’ve
heard, another house got only
two weeks for the same viola-
tion.”’

Raus said that he and his best
friend, Byron Burge, formed
the business the summer after
they graduated from Country
Day School in Louisville, Ken-
tucky.

“We couldn’t get summer
jobs, and the only way to make
some money for school was to
form our own business,” he said
ina recent telephone interview.

“The previous winter we had
parked cars at parties and
bartended, but that would have
limited us a great deal, so we
went into yard work. This sum-
mer we diversified even more
and went into house painting.

“We decided anyone could
ask to do odd jobs, but nine
times out of 10, a person with a
well-dressed appearance will
get the job over someone in rag-
ged out jeans and a T-shirt.

“Since we went to prep
school, we thought we’d use our
natural abilities — use what we
were raised as.

“The common idea is that
preps are lazy and lay around

and drink all the time. But
we're getting out and working
hard,” he said.

The business has now expand-
ed to 25 franchises From Dallas
to Nantucket. Franchises can
be bought for $350. Raus said
the licensing agreement in-
cludes the rights to use the
“Rent a Prep’’ logo and a
market management program
that teaches everything needed
by the franchise owner, ‘‘from
A to Z.” By the time he
graduates, Raus hopes to have
at least one franchise in every

- State in the union. At that time,

he plans on selling the business
to a new enterprising high
school entrepreneur.

Of the 12 schools, UVa and
Hampden-Sydney were also
chosen from Virginia. Harvard,
Princeton, and Yale topped the
list of remaining schools.

“It’s very popular in Virgin-
ia,” he concluded. “For one,
people are willing to work here,
and two, it’s a preppy area.”

Atwood’s FEC
shuffles schedules

By MIKE ALLEN

Phi staff writer
The Executive Committee
Monday night elected seniors
Pete Baumgaertner and Danny
Einstein as the two student
representatives to the Faculty
Executive Committee for this

academic year.
Dr. Edward Atwood, Jr.,
Dean of the School of

Economics, Commerce, and
Politics, is chairman of the
F.E.C. He recently discussed
the Committee’s functions.
“The majority of matters we
deal with are students desiring
exceptions to faculty regula-
tions,’’ Atwood said. He said the
F.E.C. also acts ‘‘ad interim”’
for the faculty — it takes ac-
tions on any matter which must
be dealt with before the mon-
thly faculty meeting.

“Anything that doesn’t clear-
ly belong to another committee
will usually come to the
F.E.C.,” said Dr. Atwood,
who’s been chairman of the
committee since he became
Dean in 1969.

An examination of the Com-
mittee’s minutes shows that it
deals primarily with matters
such as especially heavy or
light course loads, changes in
majors, and requests for excep-
tions to exam schedules and
other regulations. Dean Atwood
said such requests are granted
“when there are extenuating
circumstances beyond the con-
trol of the student.’’ Committee
decisions, he says, are general-
ly unanimous.

The F.E.C. also approves any

temporary change in the sche-
dule of classes, such as the
suspension of afternoon classes
for the Mock Convention. The
calendar for each academic
year is submitted toit each year
by a calendar committee. The
F.E.C. then discusses, and
sometimes amends it, before
approval. Therefore, the Com-
mittee was instrumental in set-
ting up the six-week Spring
term several years ago.

The Committee also im-
plemented the relatively recent
individual examinations sche-
dule W&L uses. This system
could be altered at any time by
Committee action.

“Tf it (individual exam sche-
dules) is ever changed, it’ll be
because students took advan-
tage of it,” Dean Atwood said.
“That doesn’t necessarily mean
cheating, but students who keep
changing exam times and mak-
ing trouble for everyone.”’

Dean Atwood says that
students who wish to appeal a
matter to the Committee should
do so in writing through his of-
fice. “Students do not appear
before the Committee,” he em-
phasized.

The Committee, which meets
weekly in McCormick Hall, sub-
mits its minutes for approval by
the University Council and then
the faculty. The F.E.C. is com-
posed of the Deans of the three
Colleges, the Dean of Students,
five faculty members who serve
three year terms and the two
students appointed by the Ex-
ecutive Committee who serve
one year terms.
 

 

Homecoming features Dregs

by EDWIN BELL

Phi Entertainment Writer

Homecoming is here again.
The October 1-2 date, a weekend
earlier than last year’s home-
coming, has sneaked up on a
few of us. But the SAB and
sophomore class are ready and
waiting with plenty of good
entertainment for the weekend,
while the Washington and Lee
Generals are ready for revenge
and to get back on the winning
trail. The Homecoming Queen
will also be crowned in Dr. Shill-
ington’s unique style. Also the
freshmen will get their first
taste of a W&L party at Zoll-
man’s pavillion. Overall, the

One advantage of being out-
doors is that there will be no
trouble with noise violations,
commented Edge. Another big
advantage is that beer will be
served as 30 kegs will be tapped
at 7:30 p.m. This event is open
to all people with a college I.D.
and there is no charge of admis-
sion. Edge would also like
students to park at Doremus
Gym and not to park in the
buildings and grounds area or
the ROTC parking lot. These

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Presents

“TT — Ge

posed of Rod Morgenstein
(drums, percussion); Andy
West (bass); Steve Morse
(guitar, banjo); Mark O’Connor
and T. Lavitz.

The reason their sound is
unusual is that it is instru-
mental; no voices. But their
new album features vocalist
Alex Ligertwood, who, accor-
ding to Townsend Oast of the
SAB, will appear Friday night.

Saturday’s homecoming
events will highlight the
Washington and Lee Generals’
game with ODAC rival Ran-
dolph-Macon. Game time is 1:30
and admission is free to W&L
students ($3.00 for adults, $2.00

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982, Page 7

 

 

homecoming weekend looks to Sees for persons with college 1.D.’s).

be a fine production. During the half-time break the
The SAB is responsible for Clifton Forge Marching Band
S\ will perform. The Homecoming
‘Queen, to be selected by a com-
mittee from nominees of the 17

a®

door amphitheatre. In the past With special guest

kicking off the weekend with
two bands in a makeshift out- S65

Homecoming has been in Dore. THE OFFENDERS

mus gym, but this year the SAB
has chosen a more advan-
tageous and refreshing site, The
stage will be located in the bowl
behind the ROTC building and
adjacent to the Woods Creek
Apartments. Originally, the
bands were scheduled to per-
form in the parking lot behind
the Law School, but Lanier
Edge, president of the SAB,
said that an unusual problem
occured this year.

Instead of the common pro-
blem of not having enough
power for the bands, the Law
School provided too much. Suf-
ficient lighting will be provided
by the buildings and grounds
department.

The weather for Friday is ex-
pected to be sunny and mild but,
in case of bad weather, the
bands will preform in Doremus
Gym.

areas will be needed for
emergency security measures.
Opening the Homecoming
show at 8:00 p.m. is a band that
should be very familiar to the
W&L audience — The Of-
fenders. Bruce Olson and the
gang, who drew a bill for $700,
play mostly late 60’s music and
songs from their new album
“The Record.” The Offenders
should provide the proper
stimulus to prepare the au-
dience for the main attraction.
The Dregs (formerly the Dix-
ie Dregs), who cost the SAB
$3,200, will open featuring an
atypical sound for bands with
southern roots. The Dregs are
from Macon, Ga., and record
with Arista Records. The group,
which has three albums out,
“Free Fall,’ ‘‘What If,’ and
“Industry Standards,” is com-

Notices

QD 0 fraternities and _ the _in-

‘dependents, will be crowned by
Dr. Shillington with a kiss.

After the game, the sopho-
more class will sponsor a party
at Zollman’s Pavillion.
Sophomore class President
Kevin Kelly said that the party
has been changed from 3:00 to
4:00 in order for all students to
watch the football game. Ad-
mission to the Pavillion will be
a class pass or a $4.00 ticket ob-
tained at the gates of the
Pavillion. The Sophomore party
will feature T.C. and the Strays
($1,000) and vodka punch will
be served. T.C. and the Strays
are probably one of the best col-
lege bands that come to W&L.
The music will last until 8:00
p.m. This party will close out
the University sponsored
weekend.

 

 
 
 

First aid

Do you know what to do when
junior chugs the Drano under
the sink? Do you know what to
do when you encounter Lex-
ington’s inevitable, tragic auto
accidents? Do you know what
your camping partner has and
how to help him when he
becomes uncontrollably chilled,
nauseous, and delirious (as-
suming away drugs)?

It is important to be familiar
with basic emergency medical
procedures for injured persons.
Red Cross Advanced First Aid
provides practical knowledge
that allows effective help in
emergency situations. Such
knowledge is often required for
those who work with young peo-

ple in any variety of jobs. Such
knowledge is indispensable for
those who spend time in the out-
doors.

An Advanced First Aid course
will be offered this fall for the
Lexington-Buena Vista area if
enough individuals express in-
terest (6 or more). The course
will cover, among other topics:
burns, fractures, poisoning,
water safety, and artificial
respiration. The course will
meet twice a week and will in-
volve approximately 45 hours of
classroom time. Members of
the Buena Vista Rescue Squad
will conduct the course. The
evenings the class will meet will
depend on those involved.

If interested, please contact
David Hansen (463-6918 after
9:30 p.m.) or write: David
Hansen, Washington and Lee
School of Law, Lewis Hall, Car-
rel 203, Lexington, VA 24450.

The deadline for signing up is
Monday, Oct. 4, so that the
course may be completed this
semester.

    
   
   
   
 

Pictures

Underclass portraits will be
taken beginning Monday, Oct.
4, and ending Friday, Oct. 8.

Come to room 200 in the Uni-
versity Center anytime next
week from 9:30 a.m. to noon and
from 12:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.

If you did not pay the sitting
fee during matriculation, you
may pay Carole Chappell (in
the office near the Cockpit)
before being photographed.

Seniors who wish to have pic-
tures made, for resumes, ap-
plications, etc., may sit at no
charge.

Don’t wait until Friday to
have your picture taken unless

you enjoy waiting in long lines.

Phil Murray
Calyx Editor

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va.

463-3338

Monday-
Saturday
9a.m.-la.m.
Sunday 10a.m.-la.m.
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982

The Lampost

Into the house of the Lord

By TOM BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

At first glance, the whole af-
fair could be described as your
basic Beatles theme party.

The bottom floor of the house
is filled with people dressed as
members of the Fab Four, lis-
tening to tunes from ‘‘Rubber
Soul.”

But there are subtle dif-
ferences to this gathering. No
one is going to dive off the man-
tle, climb on the roof, or roll
around on the floor. And no mat-
ter how much punch you drink,
your mental outlook is not going
to change.

These subtleties exist
because this is not a fraternity
party, but rather a ‘‘non-
alcoholic theme party” being
sponsored by the Lampost.
Despite being a fairly new and
obviously unorthodox group in
the Washington and Lee com-
munity, the people who live at
the Lampost are firm about the
purpose of their house.

According to Mo Gill, a senior
living at the Lampost, there is a
real ‘‘purpose’’ for the
organization. ‘‘It’s a house
where Christians can get
together to become a family in
Jesus Christ. Our first concern
is for each other,”’ Gill said.

“The Lampost is also an

outreach for those who don’t fit
into other (social) organiza-
tions,” Gill said. Moreover, Gill
sees the house as a ministry
that provides an outreach for
members of the community.

Keith Goretzka, Lampost
president, agrees with Gill that
Christian fellowship is the main
idea for the house.

Goretzka thinks of the Lam-
post as ‘‘nine fellows living
together (and) sharing their
lives in Christ.” This shared ex-
perience in Christ is enhanced,
according to Goretzka, by a
“spiritual fulfillment program”’
that includes morning prayers
and involvement with Inter-
Varsity Christian Fellowship.
The Lampost and I-VCF are two
separate organizations.

The house was started last
year by two W&L students,
Gary Carneal and Frank
Williams, who wanted a house
where students could live
together and strive for a Chris-
tian lifestyle. The two students
received strong support from
the university, in the form of a
low interest loan and from
private individuals, in the form
of gifts and donations, Goretzka
said.

The result of the two seniors’
efforts was a house on Randolph
Street and the commitment of

tive
pqeesoso) bel

thompson

band

tickets available

surrounding women’s colleges

nine students to create a Chris-
tian environment.

While the students living in
the house have various back-
grounds and denominations,
they all admit some sort of
loyalty to living a Christian life,
Goretzka said.

As the program has progress-
ed, Goretzka has seen the role
of the house to expand in the
community. For example, last
spring when two women were
evicted from their apartment,
the Lampost provided a shelter
for them for several days.

While the social programs for
the Lampost might appear low-
key, Gill and Goretzka both feel
that the house provides a social
alternative that is more con-
structive and ‘‘wholesome”’
than many other social oppor-
tunities for W&L students.

The program includes these
non-alcoholic theme parties and
trips to the women’s colleges
for parties with fellowship
groups at those schools.

Goretzka also feels that the
university ‘‘seems more than
willing...to provide an alter-
native atmosphere that is more
constructive than other (social
opportunities ).’”’ Goretzka cited
the newly formed International
House as an example of the uni-
versity’s willingness.

Keith Goretzka (Photo by David Sprunt)

As for any long-term plans for
the Lampost, Goretzka has
ideas about expanding the
house to fit more members, and
wants to establish a solid finan-
cial basis for the house.

“We’re in good financial
shape and we’ve got lots of
generous friends,’’ Goretzka
said.

“I see only good things for our
future.”’

zollman’s pavillion
october eight, nine...

3O kegs $4-cover

through :

chi psi fraternity

flip side

campus corner

valid college id required

 
The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982, Page 9

@
ne

Computer helps paper writers

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi Staff Writer

Modern researchers no
longer wade through stacks of
indexes to find references to 4-
year-old articles, long outdated
by an inexorable flood of infor-
mation in today’s media.

Instead they take advantage
of the magical technology of our
microchip era by letting com-
puters do the wading.

The new way to do library
research for term papers and
theses is to use the ‘‘Dialog’’ In-
formation Services Inc., com-
puter to which the Washington
and Lee library has had access
since September of 1981.

Only those students in classes
specially designated by the pro-
fessor are given free access to
the computer. Others must pay
cash for the service. ;

The dialog system can search
through hundreds of thousands
of bibliographic references to
find articles on any specific
topic in less than ten minutes.
This task would take the tradi-
tional researcher weeks and
months.

To gain access to that infor-
mation, a university librarian
will call a telecommunications
“‘node,’’ or broadcast station, in
North Carolina, which then
bounces a signal off a satellite
to the computer in Palo Alto,
Calif.

Having secured a line of com-
munication to the Dialog com-
puter, the librarian simply con-
nects a Texas Instruments data
terminal to the telephone and
starts typing orders into the ter-
minal.

By giving the computer a few
key words, the user can search
for articles, essays, disserta-
tions and books on any desired
topic.

“Normally what someone
must do when he or she resear-
ches something is to have a
loose idea about their topic,”’
said Richard F. Grefe,
References and Public Services
Librarian. But with the Dialog
system, the topic must be
carefully defined, Grefe said.

The search method relies on a
variation of Boolean logic, the
process of combining a few key
words to focus on a subject.
Thus, given the key words
“Reagan administration” and
“Information leaks,’’ the com-
puter would compile two
bibliographic lists. A cross
reference between the two lists
would then produce a focused
set of references to articles con-
cerning information leaks in the
Reagan administration.

Topics need not be political.
References for the fields of
science technology, medicine,
business and law are all includ-
ed in the computer. In short, it
can provide references on any
topic that has ever been the sub-
ject of a publication.

That broad range of material
is the reason why the topic must
be carefully defined.

“We have to have the ques-
tion laid out in specific and
detailed form,’ Grefe said.
‘“‘We have to do this because,
One, it is a very expensive ser-
vice, we are charged by the
minute, and Two, the computer
is very stupid, it cannot guess
what you want,” he said.

Once the precise subject has
been given to the computer, and
a database chosen, the actual
search takes only a few
seconds.

A database is an organized
body of information stored in a
computer. The Dialog computer
has over 125 databases in its
memory. Typically, the data-
bases are compiled and updated
by independent firms and then
sold or leased to Dialog. One
such database is ‘‘Newsearch’’
which is leased to Dialog by the
Information Access Corpora-
tion of Los Altos, Calif. It costs
the user $95 per hour for access
to that information.

Newsearch includes all the
articles in three national news-
papers, 370 magazines, 660 law
journals and six law news-
papers. The Newsearch keeps
articles on file for 35 days and
then drops them into one of
three other databases, the Na-
tional Newspaper Index, the
Legal Resources Index, and the
Magazine index, also by RAC.

The advantage of computer
over traditional printed indexes
is one of immediacy. With the

will be open Saturday
October 2nd

00 P:M:
STOP BY AND SEE US|!

Also our Herff Jones ring representative will be here.

computer, one can have the
references quickly and be sure
they are the most recent
available, where a printed in-
dex may be several months
behind. The Dialog system

eliminates that time lag.
The university allows each

professor to designate one
course above the 200 level for
free use of the Dialog system.
Every student in the designated
class is allowed one search on
the system. Some profesosors
have assigned term papers to
classes and given the students
the opportunity to use the
Dialog search as‘a tool for
developing a thorough and up-
to-date bibliography. But this is
only temporary.

‘Basically what we are say-
ing is these are the rules we are
going to play under, but we
reserve the right to change if we
get flooded,”’ Grefe said. ‘I do
not know of another undergrad-
uate college or university which
allows students to have search-
es done like this,”’ he said.

“Virtually every university
now has a system,” Grefe said.
There are three commercial
database systems offering
bibliographic searches for a
price. Dialog is the largest and
most powerful of these informa-
tion retrieval systems.

“After a while it may be the
only way to do research,” Grefe
said. “It is the wave of the
future.”’

9:00 - |

WELCOME BACK
ALUMNI

The University
~ Snack Bar & Supply

 

Last week’s plant sale returns Tuesday 10-2 in front of the Co-op.

An Angle of Vision

 

You and your new plant

By BETTY MUNGER

Buying a house plant is rather like coming home with a new baby.

There it is; bright, sparkling and all ours. Where to put it? Sun or
shade? What about drafts? How often should we feed it? Does it look ..
alittle pale? Ye gods, we're responsible for this living thing! _ i.

We make it through the first few days by hovering over it, by feel-.
ing the soil, dry or wet, and looking under the leaves for signs of ver:
min. We ask everyone we meet how their plants are getting along. ; .
We compare notes, suggestions and alternate methods of plant rais:

ing.

We finally turn to the printed word, to the Dr. Spocks of the plant, “y
world. There are all sorts of care — and feeding books — good ones —
—for us to learn from and to lean on. Books such as ‘‘House Plants for.
the Purple Thumb”’ and ‘‘Making Things Grow Indoors,” Two of the.
best books are “Greenworks’’ and ‘The Woman's Day Book of House.
Plants.” Gradually, we reach a more casual way of life with these
members of our household. We even forget about them for
hours/days at a time. They survive and so do we.

One day there appears — incredibly — a new leaf, a smile or a bud.
It’s all been well worth it and we puff with pride. Nobody tells us,
however, that before too long these wards of ours will grow leggy,
bushy and darn near take over the whole place.

   
   
   
  

  

Store

   

    
age 10, The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982

Sports

 

Centre upsets W&L, snaps win streak

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Centre College upset the W&L
football team 34-21 last Satur-
day, handing the Generals their
first loss of the season and
breaking a seven game W&L
winning streak.

The loss evened W&L’s
season record at 1-1. W&L re-
mains 1-0 in the ODAC going in-
to this Saturday’s 1:30 matchup
with Randolph-Macon at Wilson
Field.

Against Centre, W&L jumped
out to a quick 7-0 lead at 6:49 of
the first quarter on senior Chris
Cavalline’s 2-yard run. Caval-
line lead the Generals with 65
yards rushing for the game.

Centre bounced back to take a
14-7 lead with a pair of second
quarter touchdowns. Mike Hall
hit Geoff Pope with a 44-yard
touchdown pass at 13:34 of the
period and Mike McGurn
scored on a 5-yard run with 58
seconds left in the half.

W&L narrowed the intermis-
sion deficit to 14-13 with some
last-second heroics. Junior Al
Paradise passed 35 yards to
sophomore Tom Wiser for a
touchdown as time expired. The
conversion failed.

Paradise had another strong
performance at quarterback for
the Generals, completing 16 of
32 passes for 193 yards.

“It doesn’t surprise me,”
stated W&L Coach Gary Fallon.

“Al really works toward
perfection. We hope that he’s

LOST

Gold Cross Pen

Reward

463-9885

MOO CMO OEE

 

going to show improvement
every week,”’ Fallon said.

In the second half it was Cen-
tre quarterback Mike Hall who
dominated the game though.
Hall, who finished the game 16-
for-24, passing for 320 yards,
threw for two of Centre’s three
second half touchdowns.

The Generals lone second half
touchdown came on a 1-yard
run by sophomore Gene Girard
at 8:15 of the final period. A two-
point conversion on a pass from

~ Head water polo coach Page emillard makes a point during a a
break in the action last weekend in the W&L Invitational in Cy

Paradise to Girard got W&L to
within seven points at 28-21, but
that was as close as they would
get.

Centre snuffed out any hope
of a W&L comeback with a
touchdown of their own only 15
seconds after Girard’s score.
Hall hit Dave Block with a 76-
yard scoring pass.

W&L will face stiff competi-
tion from Randolph-Macon
when they try to run their
ODAC record to 2-0 Saturday.

 

Twombly pool. (Phi photo by Bruce Potter)

   

Lexington Lighting
‘Your Study Lamp Headquarters”
> W. Washington St.

PLCC CO eee eee ee eee eee eae eee LCL LLL

ATHLETIC ATTIC

114 W. Washington St.

15% Of

463-5666

FRIDAY & SATURDAY
ONLY!

ALL MERCHANDISE IN THE STORE.

(See our arrivals of Hang Ten Warm-ups, and Rain
and Wind Suits by NIKE: Turtlenecks by NIKE)

SIDEWALK SALE

*5.00 RACK

Includes Tennis Shorts and Shirts,
T-Shirts and Misc. Items.

$7.00 BARREL

Nylon Running Shorts- NOW JUST ‘7%

CLOSE OUT

of some shoes at cost or below!

Wa LLL LLL LLL LLL LL I SI A

sage 8 GP a el Bl a a! a a 5

  
    

SD 0D 0D 0D 0-0

SOREL LDRRLO2L ERO DORA PAAR OPA DOPAC WAPOA

Randolph-Macon comes into the
game with a perfect 3-0 record.
They own non-league wins over
Guilford, Iona, and West
Virginia Tech.

“This may be the most
talented backfield and offensive
team we face all year,” Fallon
pointed out. The Yellowjackets
are lead by quarterback An-
drew Tate and running backs
Gary Richins and Alan Spinney.

Fallon indicated that W&L
must try to control the ball by

mixing in both the run and the
pass. “We've got to keep away
from situations which dictate to
you one or the other,”’ he noted.

In addition to the facts that
the Generals will be coming off
a loss and it will be Homecom-
ing Weekend, W&L has another
reason to be fired up.

“We've never beaten them in
the five years I’ve been here. If
that isn’t enough frosting on the
cake, I don’t know how we can
sweeten it,’ Fallon stated.

Water polo recovers
with tournament title

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

Oh, what a difference a week
makes.

Two weeks ago, after W&L’s
“Fall Classic,’ head coach
Page Remillard found his water
polo team at a middling 3-2 with
problems in the team’s mental
game.

By last Sunday afternoon,
however, his Generals had
taken command of their game
— as well as everyone else’s

—to capture the ‘‘Generals’ In-
‘vitational’’ championship.

Finishing behind the
Generals were the Northern
Virginia Club at 4-1 for the
weekend, and Florida (3-2),
while George Washington,

UNC-Wilmington and Virginia
Commonwealth, all with 1-4
slates finished fourth, fifth and
sixth respectively in terms of
average goal difference.

W&L dominated the entire
tournament and brought their
overall season mark to 8-2.
“‘We’re real happy with the
mental aspect of our game,’’
asserted a contented Coach
Remillard. His satisfaction was
apparent as a_ noticeably
calmer mentor roamed pool-
side.

Remillard also noted that the
Generals had markedly de-
creased mistakes and, in turn,
were able to dictate play in

(continued on page 11)

FP ED ED ED OE ED ED ED () OED () SR

LEXINGTON RESTAURANT

STEAKS ¢ SEAFOOD ¢ SALADS |

Moderate Prices |

Homecooked Meals

810 S. Main St.

7 A.M.-9:30 P.M. 7 Days © 463-5894 A
piece ode ceiaioem-ceniioeipiaie cansdiaboden

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

) AIR FARES
INCREASE

OCT 1— BUY EARLY — SAVE!

Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

#

i

v9

,

WINTER SKI TRIPS

Call Now

CALL
463-7174

 
Generally Speaking

 

Sun doesn’t always shine

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Sports Editor

It rained Sunday for the first
time in several weeks, and it
was perhaps appropriate. For
the first time in their last eight
contests, the Washington and
Lee football team lost a game.

The Generals had _ been
defeated by Centre College 34-21
at Centre on Saturday and the
campus mood Sunday was
gloomy. After all, everyone had
expected this to be the Gen-
erals’ season, and now they had
lost only their second game, and
a tough Randolph-Macon team
was to be in town for Homecom-
ing the following week.

However, the mood was far
from gloomy at Cy Twombly
pool in the depths of the Warner
gymnasium as one Washington
and Lee team was living up to
expectations, although not
many students knew about it.

The Washington and Lee
water polo team was busy
defeating the University of
North Carolina at Wilmington
21-9 and the University of

Florida 17-6 to capture the W&L
Invitational title for the second
year in a row.

The squad had only been able
to amass a 3-2 record the
previous week in the W&L “Fall
Classic.” Following wins over
Johns Hopkins, Monmouth and
Kenyon, the promising team
dropped contests to the Naval
Academy and (who else?) Slip-
pery Rock, the same team that
provided four of the Generals’
five losses last season.

Head coach Page Remillard,
understandably upset about his
team’s performance, never-
theless had to be pleased by the
fact that the other coaches at
the ‘Classic’? said that this
year’s version of the water polo
squad was better than last
year’s.

And the team showed some
improvement last weekend as
they had no problem in winning
all five games and capturing
their own invitational title.
However, they may still be just
a step away from putting it all
together for a great season,

 

Water polo

(continued from page 10)

every game. Another important
aspect of last week’s tourna-
ment was the building of team
depth as everyone on the squad
contributed to the Generals’
victory.

W&L got out to a fast start
Saturday morning as_ they
destroyed George Washington,
16-1. The Generals then pro-
ceeded to leave the rest of the
field floundering the frustrated
in Cy Twombly Pool. More
overwhelming victories were
the rest of the story as W&L
posted scores of 21-6, 15-7, 21-9,
and 17-6 over VCU, the North-
ern Virginia Club, UNC-
Wilmington and Florida respec-
tively.

Standouts for W&L included
Erik Peterson and fellow senior
Bob Marshall, along with
juniors Matt Ravencraft and
Rand McClain. The foursome
and the rest of the Generals con-
trolled play in their offensive
zone through effective passing,
while their defensive intensity
was awe-inspiring. Coupled
with fine goaltending from
Kevin Kadesky, this defense
allowed just 5.8 goals per game
for the tournament.

This weekend the Generals
head north to Pennsylvania
looking for revenge at the Slip-
pery Rock State Invitational.
Last weekend’s springboard
has the players emotionally
ready and some offensive hon-
ing this week could put the
Generals in position to return
the favor to the Rock.

Golfers place eleventh in

By DAVID STUART
Phi Staff Writer

The fourth W&L-VMI Fall In-
vitational golf tournament
awarded James Madison and
Old Dominion first place after
18 holes of play Saturday at the
Lexington Golf and Country
Club.

Sunday’s downpour ‘‘washed
out” the remaining 18 holes of
the 36-hole tournament, accord-
ing to W&L golf coach Buck
Leslie. Saturday’s action in-
volved 20 teams, making this
year’s field of participants the
largest ever at the Invitational.

Leslie’s best four golfers com-
bined a score of 315 (or 31 over

We Care For You in A

Very Personal Way

 

Aspirin 100’s 59c

Aspirin 250’s_ $1.19
Pro-T. Brush 2/$1.15

 

BIERER’S

PHARMACY

ONE NORTH MAIN STREET
(CORNER OF WASHINGTON)

LEXINGTON, VA

463-3119

 

and, finally, a victory over Slip-
pery Rock, a school recently in
the limelight because the
Detroit Lions’ (of the NFL,
remember that?) starting full-
back, had star Billy Sims not
reported to camp, would have
been a rookie from that il-

lustrious school in Penn-
sylvania.
Washington and Lee lost only

one senior from last year’s 31-5
squad, Mike Bernot. However,
starting goalie Andy Gates did
not return to school this fall,
and senior Ken Johnstone left
the team to become president of
his fraternity.

After a few minor problems,
though, the Generals seemed to
have filled the gaps. Junior
Kevin Kadesky has stepped into
Gates’ shoes at the goalie spot,
and Remillard has a couple of
fine young field players to take
the place of Bernot and
Johnstone.

Matt Ravencraft, a junior
who worked hard over the sum-
mer at the National Junior
Development camp, has shown
an incredible amount of im-
provement and is among the:
squad’s scoring leaders. Also,
W&L appears to have recruited
a top-notch player in freshman
Tim Stanford, who has already
seen quite a bit of action.

With these additions, and the
return of all-Americans Erik
Peterson, Rand McClain, Tim
Rock and Don Smith, the
Generals have a shot at improv-
ing on last season’s record and
fifth-place finish in the NCAA
Eastern Championships.

par) placing them eleventh in

the field and second among ~

ODAC teams. Roanoke finished
first among ODAC teams with
307.

“For this time of year it was a
respectable showing, but we
could have played better,”’
Leslie said. Adding the fact that
W&L is one of the later starting
schools in the area, Leslie com-
mented that ‘‘a few of us (W&L

119 SOUTH MAIN, LEXINGTON 463-9491

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1982, Page 11

Holmes, Poorman, McGrath

pace W&L comeback

Crucial second-half goals by
freshman Bill Holmes and
senior Brad Poorman gave the
Washington and Lee soccer
team a 42 come-from-behind
victory over Haverford College
Sunday.

Despite an early first-half
goal by Holmes, the Generals,
now 1-0-1, fell behind 2-1 at the
beginning of the second half.
However, Holmes scored on an
assist from junior Ted Petrides,
and seniors Brad Poorman and
Tom Elder each tallied with
assists from freshman Steve
McGrath to provide the final
margin.

Clash of the
Washingtons

The Washington and Lee
cross-country team placed se-
cond in the “Battle of the
Washingtons” on Saturday, as
they defeated Washington Col-
lege but lost to Mary Washing-
ton

Junior Angus McBryde’s
fifth-place finish paced. the
Generals, who accumulated 44
points to Mary Washington’s 16
and Washington College’s 78.

Sophomore Frank Pittman
(26:51) and senior John Kela-
fant (27:31) finished second and
third for the squad behind
McBryde’s time of 26:18.
Sophomore Mark Pembroke
and freshman Bob Glenn round-
ed out Washington and Lee’s top
five.

 

On Tuesday, Sept. 21, Wash-
ington and Lee had fought
through two overtime periods to
tie Eastern Mennonite 1-1. The
teams were scoreless at the end
of 90 minutes of regulation.
Nine minutes into the first ten-
minute overtime, McGrath
gave the Generals the lead, but
EMC tied up the game with a
goal only two minutes later.

Following a match yesterday,
the Generals will open their
home campaign on Saturday at
10a.m. against Maryville.

Alumni lacrosse

to be Sunday

The eighth annual varsity-
alumni lacrosse game, high-
light of fall lacrosse practice,
will be held Sunday at 1:00 p.m.
on Wilson Field.

The alumni took a 16-9 victory
in last year’s matchup to take a
4-3 lead in the series.

Editor wanted

The Ring-tum Phi is now tak-
ing applications for the position
of sports editor. No previous

Phi experience is necessary.
Any interested students should
stop by the Phi office in the Stu-
dent Center, room 206, or con-
tact Phi sports editor Bruce
Potter (463-2683) or editor-in-
chief Todd Smith (463-9306).

rain-shortened event

and Bridgewater)
started (playing).’’

have just

Frank English, a first-year
senior, led the Generals with a
fourever par 75. Juniors Bruce
Blythe and Whit Kelly scored 79
and 80 and senior Tom Webb
finished with an 81.

Last year the golf team
posted a 6-0 won-loss record

over the season but graduation
was costly as the Generals lost
four seniors.

Leslie was hesitant to com-
ment on the freshmen tryouts,
preferring to say only that there
was ‘some talent” and that he
wants them to prove them-
selves before mentioning
names.

WHITE FRONT SUPERMARKET |

e
ls S. Main St.

account,

STOP BY THIS WEEKEND and save
on your ‘‘Homecoming” grocery needs.

Sales on Gallo Wine, Miller Beer,

Coke, Pepsi, Taco Dinners, Spaghetti,
Spaghetti Sauce, Campbell’s Soup, etc.

While in ask about opening up a charge

463-31%

SSI 8 MES ER TC TT S TT

Te

eee ee
ne

8
¥

Si i oe

  

 

ee ae
PALMS Opera house] 4
LADIES NITE! oy

ELEVA ULC a © 2

 

THUR 30=beach nite! 1. OAST'S PLAYBACK

TAPE SHOW.
one more before winter comes!

ma YOUR PLACE
Tg) oe ee
die AFTER ,
| 9:30-1:30 HOMECOMING

DANCE.
one of Lexington’s all time favorite bands -
ola CCM a EL

SAT= charisma LEXINGTON'S

| Ay
great dance music!! 9:30-1:30 Q

SPECIALS

MON. - FRI.

ON THE CORNER!! NELSON & JEFFERSON
 

Avth.
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
§ ? T e 758 WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
5 g LEXINGTON, VA. 24450
K5¢2 a
Vv. ¥% 4 .
. NON PROFIT ORG.
o : U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

   

 

Rin

VOLUME LXXxXIl NUMBER5

 

 

 

s-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia October 7, 1982

 

 

 

 

ad ie a ee of a, a

EC doubles
budget hearings

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

Rather than have one budget hearing reach into the wee hours of
the morning, the EC decided Monday to split that hearing into two
separate sessions.

One session was held Wednesday night. The second begins
tonight at 6:30 p.m.

Junior representative Scott Mason explained his reasoning for
voting in favor of the motion, saying “‘it looks better to do it in two
nights.”

Vice President Morgan Griffith also emphasized this point, but
defended last year’s method with the comment that ‘‘we didn’t
make any wrong decisions last year.”’

Most of the requests were heard Wednesday night, with the re-
mainder to be heard tonight.

President Bennett Ross cited larger budget requests from some
clubs as one reason for the move. For example, Ross said, the Stu-
dent Association for Black Unity is requesting $19,000 this year.

Steve Metrazzo appeared on behalf of the Mock Convention com-
mittee to explain that the committee did not want to request money
now, but wished the E.C. to bear in mind their sizeable budget. The
committee had wanted an increase in the amount of student taxes
set aside for it. Last week, the E.C. set aside $5 per student.

“I question the rationale of setting aside $7.50 when we really
don’t have any idea of what things cost,” Ross said.

The Mock Convention committee budget ‘“‘liberalized’’ expenses
and listed incomes conservatively, Mock Convention officers said.

Newly-elected freshman law representative John Sicilian
brought up the subject of the Fancy Dress Weekend date again,
particulary the method of choosing the date. He called it ‘‘ass-
backwards to check other schools’ schedules,” before checking the
schedule at the law school.

Ross reminded him that the College is all-male and that Fancy
Dress depends on W&L men getting dates from area women’s col-
leges for the most part.

The EC also announced that it is welcoming students to submit
proposals for revising the White Book and/or the Constitution.
Copies of both are available in Carole Chapell’s office in the Student

 

Minking out at
Homecoming _

Homecoming was a roaring success with the
Dregs’ Friday night concert behind the library —
(above) and with Eleanor Ponder, of Hollins taking
the Homecoming Queen’s crown at halftime. The
Generals edged out the Yellowjackets of Randolph-
Macon, 20-19, for the first time since 1976 (see page
7). (Phi photos by David Sprunt) ©

 

 

 

 

Center.

Two held for beating, stabbing of local man

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Jack Roberson, a_ life-long
resident of Lexington who was
beaten and stabbed in his home
Sunday night, is in stable condi-
tion at Stonewall Jackson Hos-
pital. Two juvenile suspects are
in custody awaiting trial.

L.E. Richardson, Executive
Vice President of the hospital,
said Mr. Roberson was brought
to the emergency room with a
stab wound and was put in in-
tensive care for treatment.
Citing hospital policy, he refus-
ed to provide any additional
details.

A member of the hospital
staff who asked not to be iden-
tified said of Mr. Roberson, ‘‘He
has suffered multiple injuries
and at present his condition is
satisfactory.”” The man con-
firmed that Mr. Roberson had
been removed from the inten-
sive care unit Tuesday morn-
ing. He said there is no indica-
tion as to how long Mr. Rober-
son will need to remain hospi-
talized.

Acting Chief of Police for Lex-

ington Lieutenant Bruce M.
Beard said that two young white
males came to Mr. Roberson’s
door at about 5:30 p.m. Sunday
and asked for a glass of water.
As he went to get the water, the
two followed him into the house,
where the assault took place.

Hospital records show that
Mr. Roberson was admitted at
5:55 p.m. Lieutenant Beard said
Roberson was treated for stab
wounds to the left side of his
chest, lacerations to his throat
and the palm of his left hand,
and lacerations to his left ear.

According to Beard, a fifteen-
and a sixteen-year-old youth,
both residents of Lexington, are
being held as suspects in the
case at the Shenandoah Valley
Detention Home. Because they
are minors, their names have
not been released.

One of the suspects cut
himself in the alleged attack on
Roberson and was taken to
Stonewall Jackson Hospital for
treatment by a passerby in an
automobile. There he was taken
into custody. Beard says that
led them to the second suspect,

who was arrested at his home.

The state police mobile crime
lab was immediately called to
the scene of the crime. Lex-
ington police officers Charles
Carpenter and David Rhoden-
izer are investigating the at-
tack, and Beard says he expects
the investigation will continue
for about another week. He said
the resources of the police
department have been fully
utilized in the wake of the stabb-
ing because ‘‘this is a major
event for a community this
size.”

Beard added that charges
have not yet been filed against
the youths, but will be very
shortly.

A hearing regarding the case
was held Tuesday morning at
the Juvenile and Domestic Re-
lalations Court. Because the
suspects are juveniles, the
hearing was closed.

Officer Carpenter, who repre-
sented the police department at
the hearing, said that ‘‘we prov-
ed there is probable cause for
detention based on what they
were alleged to have done and

on their criminal
records.”

Carpenter said a hearing will
be held Monday to determine
whether the suspects will be
tried as adults or stand trial
with juvenile status. The trial
will take place at the Rock-
bridge County Courthouse in
Lexington.

Mr. Roberson, 66, is well-
known in town for his interest in
antiques. He lives alone in Mid-
dleton House, one of the oldest
homes in the city, across the
street from the fire department
at 111 South Jefferson.

His sister, Elizabeth P.
Keevan of Alexandria, was call-
ed into town Monday. She called

prior

the attackers ‘‘two young
hoodlums’’ and_ ‘‘vicious
monsters.”

“I certainly hope that these
people are taken proper care of
in regard to being taken off the
street.... I hope they’re pro-
secuted and put away,” she
said.

After visiting Roberson Tues-
day she said that he is in ‘‘ex-
cellent spirits.... He is lucid and

clear as a bell.”” Mrs. Keevan
said ‘‘his improvement from
yesterday is amazing.” She
continued, ‘‘I can’t believe he’s
been hit over the head and
beaten and everything else.”’

She said that his ear is par-
tially cut off, and that apparent-
ly the attackers tried to sever it
completely. Mrs. Keevan says
Roberson had seen one of the
assailants before, but did not
know the other. One of them had
come to the door earlier
because he was ‘‘willing to do
work.”’ Mr. Roberson apparent-
ly declined the offer.

Mrs. Keevan said her brother
“was a gentle, kind person who
never would harm a soul.”’ She
said Roberson was a small
man, and that the attackers
‘just took advantage of an
elderly person.”

“He was not in the best of
health,’”’ she said. ‘‘He had a
stroke several years ago and
lost the full use of his left side.”’

She said she’s gotten ‘‘dozens
and dozens”’ of calls from well-

(continued on page 5)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1982

 

 

 

 

It could happen to anyone

By B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Features Editor

A shock wave ripped across a complex web of
friends and family when a car carrying three VMI
cadets and two Randolph-Macon women crashed
Saturday morning, Sept. 25.

Part of the web was the younger brother of Danny
Lawless. He looked up to his Cadet brother with
pride. Danny was an Electrical Engineering major
on a Navy Scholarship. A second classman, he had
become a member of the VMI wrestling team as a
rat. He enjoyed shagging. On Saturday morning,
Sept. 22, the younger brother learned that his big
brother was dead.

Jim Bogosian was affectionately called Bogo by
his Brother Rats. Like Lawless, he was on the
Dean’s Honor List at VMI. A Navy ROTC scholar
and a German major, Jim was a Cadet Sergeant
and member of the tennis team. He loved horses,
spending his free time training them. His sister,
was traveling in Europe when the shock came from
her parents in Michigan. Her brother was dead.

On Tuesday night, Sept. 28, Stan Ross became the
third cadet and fourth person to die from the
catastrophic accident. He lived in room 265 at VMI
with Jim and Danny; indeed, they were not only
roomates but Brother Rats in the true sense of the
words. Enrolled in Air Force ROTC, Stan was presi-
dent of the International Relations Club and a
member of the Hop Committee (like W&L’s SAB).
Stan’s parents received the tragic news only months
after adopting a two and one-half year old child.

The fourth victim was Margaret N. Abbitt of Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College. She was from New-
port News, Va. Also in the car was Diane Ellain
Doggett, whose injuries were not fatal.

Analysis

By now, all W&L students have heard about the
accident on Route 11 just north of Lexington. But for
many of us the shock wave never really hit. The
cadets remain faceless strangers in uniforms. They
died, some might casually think, because it was
“their time.”

But these were students like us — our peers and
our brothers. It might have well been us and not
them in that car. J

Virginia Military Institute’s chaplain, Col.
Charles Caudill, hopes both VMI and W&L students
will realize that. The human web of caring should
entwine both campuses.

No Washington & Lee student was present at
either of the two memorial services held at VMI,
Caudill said.

‘“‘W&L and VMI are so close, we need to get to
know each other more,” said Chaplain Caudill.
“Everybody who travels on that highway needed to
have come, just because they care. We’re not talk-
ing about ‘‘others,”’ we’re talking about ourselves.
It would have been meaningful to us if some W&L
students would have been there.

‘“‘We need to develop a feeling of caring. If W&L
had been the one holding a memorial service for
students, I hope VMI would care. If two students,
one from VMI and one from W&L, had been in the
car, I don’t know if there would have been a joint
service. It would be interesting to see what would
happen. I don’t know,” Chaplain Caudill continued.

He compared W&L and VMI to two families living
next door to each other. If two brothers in one fami-
ly died, he said, the other family would be concern-
ed.

“‘Let’s suffer together and rejoice together,’’ he
continued, quoting scripture. He explained that in
his four years at VMI, there have been “‘no social
events or cultural events to recognize we even exist
side by side.”’

Chaplain Caudill explained that he has seen
growth between the Christian communites on the
two campuses — even though he would like to see

 

   

  

oe
oe % r Rage

Col. Charles Caudill (Phi photo by David Sprunt),

more. He was instrumental in founding the Lampost
at W&L, and in sponsoring a joint Easter service
which was held in Lee Chapel last spring.

After spending most of Saturday telephoning
parents to inform them of the deaths, he still
mustered enough strength to speak at W&L’s Inter-
Varsity meeting that night.

“One reason I was able to speak that Saturday
night despite my own pain and mourning, is that I
knew I could find someone that cared, and I did.
Afterwards, I was able to come back ... knowing
that whichever way we walked, someone would be
there caring. If we all had that feeling, that VMI’s
pain is W&L’s pain, and W&L’s pain is VMI’s pain.

*“‘Many of you guys were high school buddies and
neighbors. Let’s recognize it,”’ he said.

Steve Hupp, a second classman and a classmate
of the three victims, said that the concern expressed
by W&L has been an inspiration.

“‘Many guys here didn’t feel any W&L guys cared,
but I know some guys over there and it has amazed
me how they cared. I was sorry to see they weren’t
at the service, but I think it was more a feeling of
friction than not caring ... It’s great to walk into our
chapel on Sunday morning and see W&L guys. They
know they’re welcome and that school friction won’t
get in the way,’’ Steve said.

W&L Dean of Students Lewis John, said that
Washington & Lee ‘‘has been fortunate that it hasn’t
had more serious accidents.’’

There have been several accidents during Dean
John’s time here, but he indicated that several steps
have been taken to educate students about the
dangers of speeding and/or drunk driving. They in-
clude remarks he makes during freshmen orienta-
tion, a dorm counselor alcohol awareness program,
and the possible purchase in the near future of a
Breathalizer to help educate students about alcohol
intake levels.

Dean John also expressed the desire for W&L and
VMI to become closer, despite the nature of the stu-
dent life, which tends to prevent it.

Chaplain Caudill, reflecting back on the accident,
said that the corps of cadets and the families of the
victims were inspirations to him.

“One thing is vivid, and that is that (the three
cadets) were deeply loved by their families ... they
were diverse families, but similar in their love.

 

“T couldn’t be prouder than being the chaplain to -

this corps right now, the way they handled
themselves. There were Cadets who wanted to go to
the funerals, and we sent them to New York, New
Jersey, and Michigan, as well as the memorial ser-
vice at Randolph-Macon. I think we missed some-
thing by not having a service with Randolph-Macon,
VMI, and W&L.”’

Through it all, Chaplain Caudill has also remain-
ed strong, a hard task since he was friends with the
three cadets. He remembers them as freshmen
when they came to him with problems in the rat
line.

‘‘We impersonalize it fast, saying it can’t happen
to us. We knew they were human beings, but too fast
we put it behind us as if it didn’t happen. We avoid
pain at any cost, and end up blocking out the
reasons behind the tragedy,’’ he said.

 

 

Calendar

Thursday, Oct. 7

5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: ‘How Green is my Gasoline,”
Richard W. Young, ’83. Howe 401. Preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in
Howe 402.

8 p.m. — Concert: Robert Silverman, pianist. Sponsored by the
Concert Guild. Lee Chapel.

Friday, Oct. 8

W&L Debate Tournament. For further information, call Prof.
Halford Ryan at 463-9111, Ext. 345.

3 p.m. — Lecture: ‘ ‘Ostpolitik’ in West Germany from Detente to
the Pipeline.” Jurgen Weiss. Northen Auditorium. Public invited.
Sponsored by the International Club.

7 & 9:30 p.m. — Film: ‘‘Where the Buffalo Roam’’ University
Center Conference Room. Admission $1.

8:30 p.m. — Film: ‘‘The Tin Drum” (Germany, 1979), 142 min. Dir.
Volker Schlondorff. Lewis Hall, Classroom A. Preceeded by an
open reception at 7:30 p.m. Public invited. Free.

Away Athletic Event: Water Polo, Southern League Tourney, Rich-
mond.

Saturday, Oct. 9

W&L Debate Tournament continues

7 & 9:30 p.m. — Film: “Where The Buffalo Roam” University
Center Conference Room. Admission $1.

8:30 p.m. — Film: “The Tin Drum’ (Germany 1979), 142 min. Dir.
Volker Schlondorff. Lewis Hall, Classroom A. Preceded by an open
reception at 7:30 p.m. Public invited free.

Away Athletic Events: Water Polo, Southern League Tourney,
Richmond; Football, Maryville; Soccer, Hampden-Sydney; Cross
Country, Catholic Univ. & American Univ.

Sunday, Oct. 10

7 & 9:30 p.m. — Film: ‘“‘Where The Buffalo Roam.” University
Center Conference Room. Admission $1.

Away Athletic Event: Water Polo, Southern League Tourney, Rich-
mond.

Monday, Oct. 11
8 p.m. — The Shannon-Clarke Lecture in English by Dr. Edgar
Shannon Jr., Lee Chapel. Public invited.

Tuesday, Oct. 12
11 a.m. - 5 p.m. — Blood drive: Sponsored by Chi Psi Fraternity.
Doremus Gum.

Wednesday, Oct. 13

3p.m. --- Soccer: Generals vs. Gettysburg. Wilson Field.

Letters

SAB tightens up

long hours which John Martin,
Blake Witherington and Bobby
Schmidt gave to the committee.
The success of the 75th Fancy
Dress reflects their efforts.
Finally, I wish to bring out a
point which the article only
briefly mentioned. The Ex-
ecutive Committee has conclud-
ed a major reorganization of the
SAB. This should enable the
committee to meet its goal of a
high quality Fancy Dress with

Editor:

I wish to clarify several
points concerning the Septem-
ber 30th article (‘Sloppiness
cost FD $15,000, director says’’)
in which I and other SAB
members were quoted.

First, the reason why we are
studying the 75th Fancy Dress
Ball is to learn where we can
cut losses while maintaining a
high quality production. We are
not personally attacking former

SAB Chairmen. reasonable losses.
Second, it is important to John W. Haywood
remember the hard work and Fancy Dress Director

Ring-tum Phi

P.O. Box 899, Lexington, Va. 24450

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

MII 0865 A 6G (a 0140905015 Cs Todd Smith
Rr NI 655 5 eo) ihe hi (der ON as si OGL Steve Perry
ON 666 5 594 515 00 00 4005.0 0 6058 Fs DR Evans Attwell
I eS Ore re Pee ree epee, John Cleghorn
I ok 5k Fg 05s 004 04 kk i G. Bruce Potter
EPR Ades reed fa Oo hihi ae B. Scott Tilley
re eee eee ere rr rer David Sprunt
PONE iio. cere i ca 6 00 ee ake Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Jeffery Lis, Robert Miller
IE bn 0k 05 0 60ees ba oe ok bakkie Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

Norma Ann Claxton, Barry Flemming, John Harrison
Andrew Hoppes, Nelson Patterson, Bill Roberts
Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler, Mike Stachura

PI I 665 086i Se I ic Tom O'Brien
HUMINT fh cs ices ied ened Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Houston, Tim Mulraney, Jim Wood
CHCUISIIO NENRE RO Pi ERAN ha Ss Jim Wood
The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1982, Page 3

 

 

W&L reacts to draft sign-up

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi Staff Writer

There was mixed student
reaction at Washington and Lee
University to the sentencing
Monday in San Diego, Calif., of
Benjamin H. Sasway to two-
and-one-half years in prison for
not registering with the Selec-
tive Service System. :

Sasway was released on
$10,000 bail pending appeal of
his case to the 9th Circuit Court
of Appeals. According to recent
news reports, Sasway’s legal
grounds for appeal include
arguments that the Selective
Service Act is unconstitutional,
that prosecutors illegally sin-
gled out him and other
outspoken resisters for prosecu-
tion, and that because he had no
criminal intent, his felony con-
viction is improper.

Enton Eller, a student at
Bridgewater College near Har-
risonburg, Va., has been given
until mid-Novemeber to regis-
ter or face a prison sentence.
Eller told the Associated Press
in August that to register under
threat ‘‘would make a farce out
of his efforts to obey the
authority of God,’ ‘‘a higher
judge,’’ whom he says led him
to resist registration.

Meanwhile there are more
than 10 other men who have
been indicted for allegedly
resisting the registration law
and government officials
estimate that about 500,000
Americans have failed to
register.

The maximum penalty is five
years in prison and a $10,000
fine for refusing to register.

An informal survey by the
Ring-tum Phi soliciting student
comments on this general trend
of events yielded a variety of
opinions.

“‘T registered more out of con-
venience than belief. Now I

have come to regret that, hav-
ing seen what happened to En-
ton Eller,” the News Director

     
    
   
     
    

 
 

  
 

Lexington - Buena Vista Shopping Plaza 463-9494

Records - Tapes
Stereo Components

ROBBIN THOMPSON L.P.

“Two B’s Please” °3.99
Robbin Thompson
Concert Tickets
On Sale *4.00
For Friday, October Sth

for the college’s WLUR-FM,
Steve Warren, said.

“It is really a shame that we
can’t allow some portion of our
society to be active pacifists
and that everybody has to con-
form to some belief,’’ Warren
said.

“T really respect Eller, the
guy from Bridgewater,’’ Mike
Sokolowski said. ‘‘It is hollow to
be against the draft and Car-
ter’s whole gaffe, and then to go
register because you are afraid
of the repercussions.”’

‘*You have to be able to place
your ideals above those of the
state without questioning the
state’s authority, and I think
that can be done legitimately,”
Sokolowski said.

Top students in jail?

Keith Goretzka who is both an
ROTC scholarship student and
a senior religion major came
out clearly against the registra-
tion law.

“The law, in general, I have
negative feelings towards,”
Goretzka said. ‘‘What we are
doing as a nation is imprisoning
our moral leaders, and that is a
very serious problem.”’

“If it were not for the regis-
tration, these guys would be
tops in their communities, but
we are putting them in jail,”
Goretzka said.

‘‘What does that say about the
law?”’ he asked.

‘T could not stand behind the
law as it now is.”’ Goretzka said.

But while some students ex-
pressed opposition to the law_or
the idea of a draft, others had
favorable opinions.

“If there were not a tough law
like that, then people would
have ignored registration al-
together,” John Delehanty, a
senior economics major said.

“T think everybody should
register, there is no harm init,”’
Delehanty said. ‘‘It just makes
the government aware of who
they have available if they
decide they want to institute the
draft,”’ he said.

Registration doesn’t
equal draft
“Registration does not mean
that there is going to be a
draft,” said Morris Lewis, a
senior business administration
major who had been involved in

ROTC but dropped out because

he said he does not want to go
into the army.

“TY think that he (Sasway)
should have registered,’’ said
Robert Kurek, who is a
sophomore journalism major
and a ROTC scholarship stu-
dent. “If there were a draft, I
could see it, but there is no draft
and (registration) is the law.”

“I do sympathize with them,
but I do not condone their
means to an end,” Kurek said.
“There are other, more legal
ways to go about showing dis-
agreement,’ he said.

‘Registration does _ not
necessarily mean they are go-
ing to go to war, the govern-
ment only wants to know who is
around just in case,” said Lee
Hollis, a Sigma Alpha Epsilon
pledge.

“Tt is a law and they should
obey it,” he said.

“It seems like a stiff jail
sentence, but I think they de-
serve to pay for their national
insubordination,’’ said Phi
Delta Theta pledge Rob Mc-
Cullogh.

‘‘T think the jail sentence is
pretty fitting because I think it
will serve as an example to
others,’ said freshman Leslie
Hall.

“If it were me...”’

In expressing his opinion,
Senior Executive Committee
Representative John Viahoplus
acknowledged the difficult posi-
tion of both the government in
having to enforce registration
and the resister in having to
disobey the law.

“Eller is between a rock and
a hard place,’’ Viahoplus
said. “I would probably do the
same thing if I were in his posi-
tion.”’

 

Pres. Robert E.R. Huntley presents a W&L pin to George
Caukwell, vice master of University College at Oxford, who visited
W&L Monday night to talk about ways of beefing up contributions
to his state supported school. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

 

Police chief investigated

by JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor
The Lexington City Council has named a former FBI agent to

conduct the investigation into the Office of the Chief of Police,

Mayor Charles Phillips announced in last week’s council meeting.

Kirby holds that post presently but has requested and received
administrative leave while the investigation is underway.

Several vague references at this summer’s police trials to Kirby
have raised questions about Kirby’s knowledge of the thefts. Kirby
has maintained that he had no knowledge of the theft ring’s opera-
tion during his six years as chief.

Statements of other officers made in the initial probe into the
theft ring suggest that Chief Kirby ran the department in a loosely
organized fashion and did not concern himself sufficiently with the
day to day activities of the patrolmen, some of whom were con-
victed for larcenies they committed while on duty.

The investigation will be concerned with the extent of Chief Kir-
by’s knowledge of these thefts and any evidence brought up in the
initial trials that might suggest Kirby’s involvement to any degree.

Leonard M. “Bucky’’ Walters, who worked for the FBI as a
special investigator from 1942-73 and later for the House of
Representatives also as an investigator, was the city’s choice to
perform the probe.

Walters has already conducted an investigation of this nature,
and was determined to be the most qualified of several men looked
at by the city, according to Mayor Phillips.

But the Shenandoah Intelligence Agency, a firm which conducts
similar investigations, claims Walters is not qualified for the posi-
tion. Although Walters has worked as a federal agent, the Shenan-
doah Intelligence Agency maintains he may not be familiar with
Virginia law and therefore is complaining on those grounds, the
Ring-tum Phi has learned.

Walters’ appointment is a result of a motion made by the city
council in September to investigate the office of Police Chief James
A. Kirby. This investigation follows a previous exposure of a police
theft ring that operated in Lexington throughout the 1970s. The pro-
be of that theft ring left many unanswered questions in relation to
Chief Kirby’s knowledge of the thefts.

 

EARN CASH AS OUR
SALES REP FOR
CAMPING GEAR

We’re a leading direct
mail firm specializing in
brand name camping and
backpacking gear. Our
prices are discounted,
resulting in excellent
sales potential. We need
sales representatives
who will earn commis-
sions by selling from our
catalog. You have no in-
ventory to worry about
—just develop and pro-
cess orders. For informa-

tion and = application,
call:
Buckhead Ouffitters,

toll free, at
1-800-241-2672

 

 

STARTING FRIDAY:

AT THE
BROADMOOR TWIN CINEMAS

 

A
MIDSUMME

NIGHTS o
SEX COM EDY sa),

TONY ROBERTS
MARY STEENBURGEN P.G.

   
 

 

 

 

Take Rt. 11 N. to Rt. 340, go N. 7 miles to the Broadmoor Shopping Plaza.

$1.50 With Ad or With LD.
SHOWS: 7:30 & 9:15 337-2012

 

 
 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1982

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va.

463-3338

in your
favorite

deli foods.

Monday-
Saturday

9a.m.-la.m.
Sunday 10a.m.-la.m.

  
 

Films: The Tin Drum

 

 

Sigma Chi

a aie poe foreign film and is based on e ts 2
Ibarachatgp erie: ee Gunter Grass’s highly popular - k
The Washington and Lee Film novel, first published in 1959. & w

Society’s first presentation of
the 1982-83 season will be the
1979 German film ‘The Tin
Drum” directed by Volker
Schlondorff. The film will be
shown at 8:30 p.m. (note time
change) on Friday, Oct. 8 and
Saturday, Oct. 9 in Classroom A
of Lewis Hall. There is no ad-
mission charge and the public is
invited.

Each night’s showing will be
preceded at 7:30 by a coffee-
and-cake reception, providing

ington recent films of quality
that have not appeared in local
theatres, invites interested per-
sons to attend this get-ac-
quainted reception.

“The Tin Drum” won the
Academy Award in 1981 for best

 

 

Last chance to have your
underclass yearbook portrait
taken.

Tomorrow is the final day.
There will not be a make-up
day.

The photographers will be in
Room 200 of the University

 

 

“The Tin Drum” is one of a
number of recent German ar-
tistic efforts dealing with the
notorious traumas of the twen-
tieth centry. In this case, we
view the world through the eyes
of insane asylum inmate Oskar
Matzerath, born in Danzig in
1924 and so revolted — at the
age of three — by the world
around him that he decides to
stop growing. Thereafter,
Oskar becomes an observer of
life, battling its absurdities with

Bringing to the screen a pic-
turesque novel of metaphor and
allegory is no easy task and
Schlondorff’s film version of
“The Tin Drum’ has _ been
criticized by some for failing to
do justice to the book. It has
been noted that the novel as-
saults the intellect, while the
film attacks the senses. Schlon-
dorff fills the screen with star-
tling images, a number of which
may be overpowering for the
sensitive viewer. (Ironically,
this film is not for children of
any age. )

Deaver’s

Mini Market
BUSCH
Six Packs *1.99

Rt. 60

9a.m.-9 p.m.

463-4542

social pro

Sigma Chi was fined $150 and
placed on social probation for
two weeks by the Judicial
Board of the Interfraternity
Council.

The decision was made after
it was learned that the house ex-
ceeded the IFC limit on the
number of bands per week of
Rush.

Bill Tommins, Sigma Chi

« u cD VC x0; an eae cyl his tin drum and his glass- social chairman, said the band
Bis porters of the Society andmake chattering shrieks; one critic had been booked last spring and
fDe new friends. The W&L Film calls Oskar a sort of “moral had been paid for before it per-

Society, which brings to Lex- Geiger counter.” formed at the house.

“‘We had no control over it,”’
Tommins explained. ‘“‘We had
the choice of either losing $500
by canceling the band or going
ahead with it and expecting
some kind of action by the IFC.

Sigma Chi plans to appeal the
board’s judgement.

SAB wins
with Dregs

T. Oast, Student Activities

Center from 9:30 a.m. - 4:30 “The Tin Drum” is an am- :
\ \V bie ; Board Co-Chairman and enter-
e pm. bitious and thought-provoking —tainment coordinator, announc-

Please wear coat and tie. film, one that is certain to be et

° e : ed that the board’s Homecom-

Phil Murray | among the most memorable : .
S e( 1a 7 e Calyx Editor resentations in Lexington this Ing peevemtaton of The Dregs
vo ao 8 and the Offenders last Friday

was ‘“‘a complete success. We
feel like everything went real
smoothly with the two bands.”
A crowd estimated at 1000 at-
tended the concert held on the
back campus of the W&L Law
School. The production cost the
SAB $3,900.

Oast reminded students that
on Nov. 6, the SAB will present
The Nighthawks at Zollman’s
Pavilion. The SAB-sponsored
“Tuesdays in the Pit” program
will also continue with the Deal
performing this Saturday and
The White Animals following on
Tuesday in the W&L Cockpit.

Oast commented, ‘‘Since rush

THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR

¢ Allentown, PA
EDUCATIONAL TESTING

* Atlanta, GA

+ New York City

+ Philadelphia, PA
«Connecticut + Pittsburgh, PA

* Illinois + Virginia

* Long Island, NY » Washington, DC
* New Jersey + Westchester, NY

PREPARE NOW FOR DECEMBER 4 EXAM

NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-hr. courses: Live lectures - Simulated exam
conditions Special home-study materials Tape library - Up-to-date
course materials-Group & individual counseling

CBA a TRC) 1a

has ended and Homecoming is
over, the campus may seem
dead to a lot of people over the
next couple of weeks.

“But SAB productions are
spaced evenly and remain cons-
tant throughout the year.’’ Oast
urged all W&L students to sup-
port SAB productions ‘“‘so we
can maintain a high quality of
entertainment.”

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

| need your head

 

 

PREPARATION COURSE

y@

For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering the
LSAT exam and the Law Schoo! admission process Call now or write:

rou rree (800) 223-2618

The National Center for Educational Testing
1271 Ave. of the Americas, Suite 777

New York, N.Y. 10020
GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or
take the next course FREE.

Contact locally:
C. Jay Robbins

(703) 463-6687 in my business

 

9 South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.

 

 

  

 

 
 

 

Pianist
tonight

A performance by Canadian
pianist Robert Silverman will
open the 1982-83 season of the
Washington and Lee University
Concert Guild on Thursday,
Oct. 7, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Tickets for the concert will be
available at the door and are $4
for adults and $2 for non-Wash-
ington and Lee students.

Silverman’s concert will con-
sist of ‘‘Six Pieces, Op. 118” by
Brahms, ‘Sonata in C-sharp
minor, Op. 27 No. 2’’ by Beetho-
ven, and “Sonata No. 1 in D
minor, Op. 28” by Rachman-
inoff.

A native of Montreal, Silver-
man has been a soloist with
several important North
American orchestras and has
earned critical acclaim for his
performances.

In its review of his ap-
pearance with the Milwaukee
Symphony, the Milwaukee
Sentinel called Silverman “a

Stabbing

(continued from page 1)

wishers. The police depart-
ment, she says, ‘“‘has been very
good,’’ and she said Lieutenant
Beard ‘‘was very nice’’ when
she went to talk with him on
Monday.

Roberson and Mrs. Keevan
grew up in the house, which she
said was built around 1792 and
has been in the family since the
1920’s. She said he used to have
an antique shop in town where
he repaired and decorated fur-
niture. It was closed after his
stroke, but he remained active
in his collecting.

Henry Simpson, owner of
Lexingington Antiques on
Washingington Street, called
the incident ‘‘shocking.” He
said he and Mr. Roberson were
“friends” and that he saw him
every day.

“Me’s had a routine since his
stroke,”’ ~Siuapson said, ‘‘He
needed exercising, soo’d am
by every day.”

‘Simpson said Roberson wai

“knowledgeable” and ‘knew
the finer points’ about anti-
ques. He said Roberson was “‘an
original character ... he had
strong beliefs and he’d say what
he thought.”

He said he was confident of
Mr. Roberson’s strength. “I
knew he’d be all right.”

 
 

ALOHA woK

463-9342

iirst-rate pianist by any stan-
dard ... great sensitivity and
formidable technical power. He
also exudes a warm friendly
personality which gives depth
and audience appeal to his
recitals.’’

Silverman, who is making his
third visit to the Washington
and Lee campus, is currently on
the piano faculty of the Univer-
sity of British Columbia. He is
well known to radio and televi-
sion audiences in Canada
through his frequent appear-
ances as a performer and
broadcaster. In addition, he is a
first-rate teacher whose

‘students have distinguished

themselves internationally.

Silverman’s performance is
the first of four concerts spon-
sored this academic year by the
Washington and Lee Concert
Guild.

For ticket information, con-
tact the Music Division at
Washington and Lee by
telephoning 463-9111, Ext. 232.

(W&L News Office)

Monday
Tennyson
scholar

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr. will
speak on “ ‘The Thews of
Anakim’: Postulations of the
Superhuman in Tennyson’s
Poetry,” Monday, Oct. 11, in
Lee Chapel.

The lecture is scheduled for 8
p.m. and is open to the public.

Shannon, who served as presi-
dent of the University of Virgin-
ia for 15 years, is an interna-
tionally recognized authority on
Alfred, Lord Tennyson. Shan-
non will inaugurate the
Shannon-Clark Lectures in
English, established by an an-
onymous gift to support an an-
nual lecture in English or
American literature by a dis-
tinguished visiting scholar.

 

 

 

Senior workshops

The Office of Career Develop-
ment and Placement will offer a
series of group workshops for
seniors. Sehiors from all majors
are encouraged to participate.
Sessions will be held in the
University Center Room 114.

Resume Writing
Thursday, Oct. 7,7 p.m.

Which Is The Right
Career For Me?
Tuesday, Oct. 12, 7 p.m.
Thursday, Oct. 14, 4 p.m.
Job Hunting Techniques
Tuesday, Oct. 19, 4 p.m.
Thursday, Oct. 21,7 p.m.

Interviewing Techniques
Tuesday, Oct. 26, 7 p.m.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1982, Page 5

Focus
Interdisciplinary symposium

IN
The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

 

Share an insight

 

 

 

 

 

|

ie

 

 

THE DEAL

OCTOBER 9th

 

 

Chinese, Polynesian, and

|Sun. Buffet 12-12:30-$4,25|

Open Tuesday through Sunday

Sunday Lunch Buffet 12-2:30

 

 

 

 

r; $< ore

Enjoy Horseback Riding
a Farm

Trail.Rides $5 an Hour
— Lessons Also Available —

63-9472

 

;
fave HK a)

 

 

 

Lexington Prescription Center

11 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

and other toiletries.

3 tkK hr

Prescriptions, dental products,

ee
men’s after shaves and colsgnes

  

ee a i a a a a a eee eee ee eee ee ee a a ee ee ee

THE
WHITE ANIMALS

OCTOBER 12th

 

i a ae oo i ae a ee ee ee ee

  

 

 

So ae

 
 

  

“It's The Place To Be’

ae le ee le el ll el ll

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30
until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,

Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, ~~
Garlic Bread you can eat for na

 

 

 

   
    

 

4 ~~
- ae

    
   

  
   

   
 
  
 

    
 
 

 
  
 

 

 

. American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

“Carry-out Available”

Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10
Closed Saturday Luncheon

 

 

x Hamric & Sheridan

  
    
 
       
 
      
 
   
 

 

JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

11 W. Nelson

 

 

463-2022

 

 

Oh
600 E. Nelson St. PHONE 463-7000
qe 0 ee 6 <em> 0 <a 0 > 0 ee 0 cm 0 <> 0 ee 6 0

Pater ace)
The Country Kitchen
An Old Fashion Bakery

Eat in or take out

 
   
 
 

   

   

Birthday and other special occasion
CAKES

fs North Main Phone: 703-463-5691
rage 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1982

 

Water polo ‘improving,
ups record to 10-4

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

It was another weekend of im-
provement for water polo,
Generals’ style. Despite a 2-2
record that put W&L at 10-4 for
the season and a third place
finish at the Slippery Rock State
Invitational, it was a relatively
pleased Coach Page Remillard
that returned to Lexington.

Taking top honors in Penn-
sylvania was host Slippery
Rock, followed by Bucknell,
with Ohio State, Indiana
University of Pennsylvania,
and Cleveland State rounding
out the bottom three slots.

W&L began the tournament
Friday evening with a 20-9
thumping of Cleveland State.
But later that night they fell to
the Bisons from Bucknell, 12-10,
although the scoring was even
in the second half.

Saturday the Generals met
nemesis Slippery Rock but fell
short of the mark again despite
outscoring Slippery Rock 11-8 in
the second half. W&L lost by
one goal, 19-18. They closed out
the invitational by taking out
their frustrations on Ohio State
with a 21-10 victory.

‘‘We played very well and we
are improving more than other
teams are,’’ commented Coach
Remillard. He was quite pleas-
ed with the offensive perfor-

mance as the Generals amass-
ed 69 goals in four contests.
‘“‘We’re pleased with our offen-
sive pressure and intensity,”
continued Remillard.

On the negative side,
however, the fourth-year men-
tor finds his squad vexed by its
own defense, specifically the
goaltending. As a matter of
fact, the Generals stopped only
a third of the attempted shots in
the deep end of the pool.

‘Something has to happen
there if we’re to beat these good
teams,’’ Remillard admitted.
The team will be working on
team defense this week, but one
can expect some one-on-one
meetings with Remillard and
his goalies.

This weekend W&L begins
conference play by hosting Zone
I play in the Southern League
Tournament, featuring teams
from Lynchburg, James Madi-
son, VMI, and George Washing-
ton. Remillard feels with
deserved confidence that the
Generals should be the favored
team both for the conference
and state titles and sees the up-
coming competition as a
“weekend of execution.’’ Play
begins Friday afternoon and
will continue at Cy Twombly
Pool through Saturday after-
noon.

 

  
   
   
   
  
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
 

Prayers
unanswered

Even prayer couldn’t help
this Maryville goalie last Satur-
day on Wilson Field as Wash-
ington and Lee demolished the
Scots by a 7-1 count for their
third consecutive victory.

However, the Generals drop-
ped their first game of the
season to Roanoke College on
Tuesday by a 3-2 count. Their
record is now 3-1-1.

Senior Brad Poorman scored
two of his three goals in the first
half as Washington and Lee rac-
ed toa 4-0 lead at halftime.

Tom Elder, Bill Holmes, Bob
Coleman and Eric Obeck each
tallied one goal for W&L. Senior
co-captain Mark Carduner
passed out two assists.

In the loss to Roanoke, the
Generals never led, despite
managing to tie the Maroons at
1-1 and 2-2 on goals by Poor-
man. The winner for Roanoke
came with just nine minutes to
go in the game.

Last Wednesday, Roland
Simon’s header with eleven
seconds on the clock gave the
Generals a 2-1 road victory over
Mary Washington.

Mary Washington had taken a
1-0 lead just five minutes into
the game, but Poorman tied the
score early in the second half
with a shot from the left wing.

 
 

october eight, nine. ~
3O kegs $4 cover

tickets available through:

chi psi_ fraternity

flip side

esti eLi Mme) eta E :
surrounding women’s colleges. —

é
ia

valid college id required

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1982, Page 7

 

W&L comes from behind for 20-19 win

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Sophomore Gene Girard’s
one-yard touchdown plunge and
a two-point conversion early in
the fourth quarter capped a
20-19 come-back victory for the
Washington & Lee Generals
over Randolph-Macon Satur-
day.
Randolph-Macon had the op-
portunity to blow the game open
in the second quarter, but tough
defense by W&L inside their
own twenty and a multitude of
Yellow Jacket miscues left the
Generals only six points down
at the half.

It was W&L which opened the
scoring, though, on a 25-yard
field goal by Bill Devine with 54
seconds left in the opening
quarter.

Randolph-Macon quickly re-

taliated. On the next play
fullback Alan Spinney romped
52 yards to the Generals’ 14-
yard line. One play later Gary
Richins scored from eight years
out. After a missed extra point
the Yellow Jackets led 6-3.

The next time RMC touched
the ball, they again demon-
strated their explosive offense
and their incompetent kicking
game. Gary Richins sprinted 55
yards for a touchdown and a
12-3 lead. It stayed that way
when the Yellow Jackets miss-
ed the extra point again.

On their next possession,
W&L utilized a pair of long runs
by Paradise to mount a threat.
When the drive stalled, Bill
Devine booted a 27-yard field
goal with 5:49 left in the half to
narrow the RMC lead to 12-6.

In the final five minutes the
Yellow Jackets wasted two ex-
cellent scoring opportunities.
After driving from their own 33-
yard line, an RMC receiver
dropped a sure touchdown pass
and kicker Cody Dearing miss-
ed a 27-yard field goal.

It looked like the Yellow
Jackets might still widen their
12-6 lead when Richins returned
a punt 60 yards to the W&L 22
with 26 seconds remaining.
W&L’s defense stiffened and
forced a field goal attempt,
which was blocked by sopho-
more Jim Lyall.

“Anytime you take away a
scoring threat it’s got to really
pick you up going into the locker
room,” noted W&L Coach Gary
Fallon.

W&L capitalized on an RMC
fumble to tie the game at 12-12
on Chris Cavalline’s one-yard
dive at 6:10 of the third quarter.

Less than six minutes later,
RMC went out in front 19-12 ona
2-yard touchdown run by Rich-
ins. Richins’ third touchdown of
the day was set up by a 76-yard
run by Alan Wright.

W&L bounced back quickly to
score the winning touchdown on

HI GUYS
I’m Dick Cerone,
W&L ’82, New on
the Food Service
Management
Team. My first
official act is to
ROLL BACK
BEER prices in the
Pit.

— I —

 

Girard’s run with 12:32 left in
the game. John Thompson hit
Cavalline with a pass for the
two-point conversion, which
gave the Generals their margin
of victory at 20-19.

“I was really pleased with
John’s performance. He had
some confidence coming in
there,’’ stated Coach Fallon.

The rest of the game belonged
to the Generals’ defense, as

they buried the Yellow Jackets
in their own territory.

“I knew this was a good team
we were going against. My kids
really rose to the occasion,”
said Fallon proudly.

The win boosted W&L to 2-0 in
the ODAC and 2-1 overall.

This Saturday the Generals
travel to Maryville College to
take on the Scots in an Old

Dominion Athletic Conference
game.

‘“‘Maryville is going to be a
physical game. If we’re not
careful, it could be another Cen-
tre,’’ warned Coach Fallon.

Quarterback Al Paradise’s
sprained ankle makes him a
questionable starter for the
game. Fallon thinks he pro-
bably will be able to play,
though.

McBryde leads harriers to 4-1 mark

Junior Angus McBryde
claimed the overall title Satur-
day as the Washington and Lee
cross-country team defeated
three other squads to up its
record to 4-1. The Generals
finished with 32 points to place
ahead of Roanoke (41), Norfolk
State University (86), and
Virginia State University (no
team score).

McBryde’s time of 27:57 was

Alumni downs
varsity, 14-11

The alumni scored two goals
late in the third period to break
an 8-8 tie and go on toa 14-11 vic-
tory over the varsity lacrosse
squad Sunday on Wilson Field.

The win gives the alumni a 5-3
edge in the series, which high-
lights fall lacrosse practice.

The Cockpit
|

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

 

EFFECTIVE TODAY, THURS., OCT. 7

ABC Law won’t allow us to advertize beer prices. Come in and see for yourself.

NEW MENU ITEMS:

Philly Hot Pretzels
14 Lb. Fresh Roasted Peanuts

NEW REGULAR HAPPY HOURS:
Monday —3-4&7-8
Wednesday — 3:30 - 6:30
* Friday — 3:30-6:00

PHI SPECIAL — with this ad
* Friday, Oct. 8 (during Happy Hour) FREE HANDFUL of
Fresh Roasted Peanuts — One per customer, till we run out

of 30 lbs.

 

five seconds better than that of
the second-place finisher. Soph-
omore Frank Pittman, senior
Jon Kelafant, junior Paul Chap-
man, and freshman Bob Glenn

  
   
 

Rt. 60

   

Deaver’s

Mini Market

BUSCH
Six Packs ‘1.99

9a.m.-9p.m.

We Care For You in A
Very Personal Way

rounded out the W&L top five.

The Generals next home meet
will be the Virginia Division II
and III Championships on Oc-
tober 16.

463-4542

  

 

 

Aspirin 100’s 59c

 

Aspirin 250’s $1.19
Pro-T.Brush 2/$1.15

    
   

 

 

   

AIR FARES
INCREASE OCT) —
BUY EARLY — SAVE!

A
‘..

BIERER’S

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

 

# Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

WINTER SKI TRIPS

EAST LEX

SPECIAL
BUD 54: °4-59

     
 

 
 

 
 

PHARMACY
re nome mas ere ==>
LEXINGTON, VA 463-3119

       
   
   
     
  

Call Now

CALL
463-7174

  

  
       

  
   
  
      

A a i ag acy Ne
SaaS Se :
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 7, 1982

[PALMS Opera house |

SNOT O ANT HNO ye

All You Can Eat ** $3 : Og re i UO

Pee ey

THURS 7 ** WILDGRASS

Great local Bluegrass group! Ist time at Opera House
9-1:00

Ea
rYYXYXLILILIIILILILIS Iii
|
:
)

FRI 8 ee a - ra SUPER TOP 40 DANCE BAND

9:30 - 1:30 PC ROM SCOR CEC Ly

     

SAT 9 cz oe | 08”’ eT ari L

Tamils
9:30 - 1:30 month!!!

WED 13 ** BLUES

EXPRESS

NEW HOURS:
Tues. -Sat.
oT

Closed Monday

ON THE CORNER!! NELSON & JEFFERSON
THE UNIVE
WASHINGTON &
LEXINGTON

i LIBRARY
» LEE UNIVERSIT®
VA. 24450

.. pages 6, 7

 

Shillington, Washburn ee

s-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia October 14, 1982

  

VOLUME 82

Rin

NUMBER 6

 
 
 

 

NON PROFIT ORG»
U.S. POSTAGE ||)

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

EC divies up
$102,000 pie

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

As has become both a tradi-
tion and a_ necessity, the
representatives from W&L’s
large variety of clubs and
organizations met with the
members of the E.C. last
Wednesday and Thursday
nights, begging for scraps from
the Committee’s $102,000
budget.

Requests ranged from the
Mock Convention’s request for
$300 to cover office expenses to
the SAB’s gargantuan request
of $58,370.

The first evening’s business
was uneventful until the Inter-
national Club came up to re-
quest $1,837.

When Senior Rep. John Vla-
hoplus moved to appropriate
$1,400, club president Henry
Baey’s reaction was “It could
be worse.’’ EC President Ben-
nett Ross reminded Baey, “It
might still be.’’ It was; the club
got $1,100.

Phil Murray of the Calyx
made what he called a “‘more
than reasonable request ot
$10,900.’ The next evening,
while searching for money to
give the SAB, the EC made it an
even more reasonable $10,000.

The biggest discussion of the
Wednesday night meeting was
about Focus and its publication,
Excelsior. Focus was set up by
last year’s committee to estab-
lish a symposium every four
years to consider philosophic

scientific, economic aspects of
specific issues, for example,
“nuclear energy.”

‘“‘What we’re looking at here
is another damned expensive
Mock Convention,’’ Vlahoplus
said. ‘I think it’s only fair that
the Administration foot the bill
because it is an academic pur-
suit,”

The question became not how
much money the EC should give
it.

‘“‘We expect to have lectures,
seminars, pamphlets, and dis-
plays at the Symposium and if
the money and the commit-
ment aren’t there on the part of
the university, we might as well
forget it,’ said Chris Bouquet,
chairman of Focus. The general
feeling on the Committee seem-
ed to be one of ‘‘let’s keep it
afloat but not support it com-
pletely.” As a result the Com-
mittee voted to give them $600
of their requested $995.70, hop-
ing that the university would
get the message that the EC
would rather not support the
group completely.

The Student Bar Association,
represented by John McGarry
and Fred Earley, had a novel
approach to the proceedings.
Before they got very far into
their presentation, the SBA
made voluntary cuts of $2,000.
This was not quite enough, for
the EC however, which even-
tually gave them $16,800 of their
originally requested $19,455.

(continued on page 5)

 

 

 

The bar at Zollman’s Pavilion sits ignored after Alcohol Control officials confiscated some 30 kegs of
beer. The party continued, however, with music by the Robbin Thompson Band. (Phi photo by David
Sprunt)

Police raid Chi Psi party

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor

Sheriff's Deputies, State
Troopers and alcohol control of-
ficials raided a party at
Zollman’s Pavilion Friday,
charging six Washington and
Lee University students with
criminal offenses.

The party, sponsored by the
students, was a private function
featuring the Robbin Thompson
Band.

Three members of Chi Psi
fraterntiy and three other
students received the charges
which were class one misde-
meanors punishable with a 30-60
day jail sentence and a $50-$100
fine.

Spokesmen for the State In-
formation Office and the Staun-
ton Office of the Alcoholic
Beverage Commission refused
to comment on the incident.

Danny Einstein, president of
Chi Psi, appeared before the
Student Executive Committee
Monday to explain his side of
the incident. Einstein stressed
that every precaution was
taken by those involved with the
party and that technically they
were selling tickets for the band
and not for the beer which was
free.

In response to Einstein’s re-
quest for support, the EC
released a statement backing
those who were charged saying
“this committee believes that
the persons involved are essen-
tially victims of selective en-
forcement and possible faulty
application of state liquor
regulations.”’

A party of similar nature was
held by the sophomore class on
Homecoming Saturday. A band
performed at the party and

vodka punch was served to
those students permitted inside
the party who had previously
shown a class pass or payed $4

at the gate, according to
sophomore Class President
Kevin Kelly.

Because admittance to the
party specified a class pass or
Status as a guest of a W&L stu-
dent, it was similar to the party
raided Friday which required a
college id.

The ABC was aware of the
sophomore party because the
vodka was purchased at a local
state store, Kelly said, but did
not chose to raid it.

It was inconsistent cases such
as this and others that prompt-
ed the Executive Committee’s
vote of confidence for those in-
volved with the party raided
Friday, according to Senior
Rep. John Vlahoplus.

 

Diplomat predicts pipeline will make news again

 

Jurgen Weiss of the West German embassy lectures on the Soviet
pipeline controversy and the NATO family. “If you had a sister,
would you force her to do something she did not want to do?” Weiss

asked. (W&L photo by Pete Cronin)

By MICHAEL F. KILLEA
Special to The Phi

The East-West natural gas
pipeline could jump back into
the news soon, a West German
diplomat said at Washington
and Lee Friday, Oct. 8.

Jurgen Weiss, the assistant to
the Ambassador of the Federal
Republic of Germany to the
United States, spoke under the
auspices of the International
Club about the pipeline deal and
its relation to the general
development of detente in the
West.

Fighting in Lebanon has
crowded the pipeline off the
front page of newspapers, but
the West German government’s
recent shift from moderate-

leftist Social Democrats to
right-wing Christian Democrats
could change that, Weiss said.

In a brief review of West Ger-
many’s politico-economic_his-
tory from the post-war years to
the present, Weiss explained
the Federal Republic’s initia-
tion of Ostpolitik in the late
1960s. According to Weiss, Ger-
many and the East Block States
agreed to ‘‘...renounce the use
of violence to change borders,
but leave open the chance to
change borders by peaceful
means.” This is important to
West Germany because it
secured the potential of reunify-
ing the two Germanies, the
Federal Republic’s supreme
“national goal.’”’

By the early 1970s, the rest of
the Western world followed
Germany’s. example with the
policy of detente.

“Americans and all Euro-
peans agreed that we should try
to seek cooperation with
Eastern countries, and
especially with the Soviet
Union, and base this coopera-
tion on military strength. We
cannot bargain with a basis of
military weakness because the
Soviets respect strength,”
which Weiss referred to as an
“unfortunate fact of life.’’

Mr. Weiss then commented
on today’s political climate
regarding the East and Russia
as a “period of change.” “In

(continued on page 8)

 
 

 

a is
mh

NOW ASK THEM IF THEY HAVE EVER BEEN, AND WHY ARE THEY NOW, COMMUNIST, PINKO SUBVERSIVES. ;

 

Letters

 

EC supports Chi Psi

Editor:

The Executive Committee of
the Student Body has adopted
the following statement in
regard to the Virginia Alcoholic
Beverage Commission’s recent
actions during the Pavilion par-
ty of 8 October featuring the
Robbin Thompson Band.

“The Executive Committee
hereby expresses its confi-
dence in those six individuals
and the Chi Psi Fraternity as a
whole who have been accused of
legal wrongdoing involving the
sale of alcohol.

“Because the function in
question was administered con-
sistently and, in some cases,
even more stringently than past
University sponsored events,
this Committee believes that
the persons involved are essen-
tially victims of selective en-
forcement and possible faulty
application of state liquor
regulations. Moreover, because
the practices of the Alcoholic
Beverage Commission have a

direct bearing on the structure
of all future social events at this
university, the Executive Com-
mittee is commited to seeking a

Hockey,Mock C anyone?

Editor: —

In light of recent Phi
coverage regarding budget re-
quests for the 1984 Mock Dem-
ocratic Convention, the Conven-
tion officers would like to in-
form the W&L community that
there will be a meeting Thurs-
day, October 21, open to all in-
terested freshmen, sopho-
mores, juniors, as well as any
first or second year law
students. The meeting will
begin at 8 p.m. in the library’s
Moody Northen auditorium and
the major emphasis will be to
introduce students to the pur-
pose and significance of the
Mock Convention. A color film
along with past convention
literature will be used and we

clarification of the applicable
rules in question.”

The Executive Committee

11 October 1982

urge all interest students to at-
tend.

Also, this Monday, October
18, there will be an organiza-
tional meeting of the W&L ice
hockey club at 7 p.m. in New-
comb Hall, room N-7. This new-
ly school subsidized organiza-
tion is open to all students with
some form of hockey ex-
perience, who are willing to
contribute the time and per-
sonal funds ($20 or $25) to form
a team. We will arrange outside
competition as well as scrim-
mages among ourselves. All
home games will be played at
the Salem-Roanoke. Civic
Center.

Peter Muller
; Tri-Chairman 1984
Mock Democratic Convention

All ‘a part of my community’

“Wasn't it terrible about
Jack. You know, one of those
boys lives just below the
house.” It was last Saturday
evening and I was over at the
home of my former landlady.
We must have talked for over
an hour about “goings-on” in
our respective lives and were at
that moment discussing the re-
cent assault on Jack Roberson
by the youths in Lexington.
Once I left Mrs. Shaners, I
began to think about Mr. Rober-
son, the boy below the house,
the Shaners, and myself.

What came to mind was the
real closeness that all of us
shared. Mr. Roberson was not
simply another casualty read
about in the paper. He was my
neighbor whose house I had
passed innumerable times on
my way to and from school.
Mrs. Shaner, my former land-
lady, was oh so much more to
me. She was my neighbor, too.

And even that boy who ‘“‘lives
just below the house’’ was my
neighbor in Lexington. The
point was that I was myself not
merely a college student on an
extended visit to a Virginia
town. No, I realized that Lex-
ington was my town and her
people were mine. “Bone of my
bone, flesh of my flesh.”’
Chaplain Caudill of the Vir-
ginia Military Institute was
quoted in last week’s Phi as say-
ing that ‘“‘We need to develop a
feeling of caring.... Let’s suffer
together and rejoice together.”
Of course, Chaplain Caudill is
so right. We all should suffer
when one of our own dies in an
accident or is assaulted in his
home. And when Mrs. Shaner
offers me a piece of pie I rejoice
with her in the bounty of her
cupboard and smile as I enjoy
her marvelous Southern hospi-
tality. And I pause to think of
that boy below the house who is

also a part of my community. A
neighbor.

To my way of thinking, one of
the grandest traditions at Wash-
ington and Lee is that of
greeting one another along the
walk. It is our way of recogniz-
ing each other as neighbors in
the academic community. Re-
gardless of how grouchy or in-
sincere the “good morning”’
may sound, it is to my mind a
huge step in the right direction.
A step towards acknowledging
each person on the walk as a
fellow human being, someone
worth saying “‘hello’’ to.

It was terrible about Mr.
Roberson and I’m sure many of
us swore an oath or shed a tear
at reading about the attack.
Good, I say. Good that we
should care enough to react in
some visible manner. Because
Jack Roberson is our neighbor.

By KEITH E. GORETZKA

Analysis

Fraternities
must answer up

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

EC President Bennett Ross went to Tuesday’s In-
terfraternity Council meeting with a few questions.
What he got were surprisingly good answers, and a
promise of action.

Who will pay for the Contact speakers program,
Ross wanted to know. Feeling budget restrictions, the
EC granted only $8,500 of the $12,000 Contact asked
for. That’s not odd, considering that only one club got
what it asked for.

What was odd was the abuse heaped on the IFC in
its absense. The EC was ‘“‘ticked’’ to have to decide
how to fund Contact without any idea of how much the
IFC would chip in. The IFC originally financed all of
the Contact budget, as a way of improving the frater-
nities’ image on the hill. The EC was invited to share
the cost in the 70s, and recently has paid more for
speakers than the IFC.

“T think the IFC is being irresponsible,”’ said Vice
President Morgan Griffith at the hearings, and the
committee agreed to push the IFC for some commit-
ment, one way or the other.

What Ross got from the IFC were some reasonable
objections. IFC President Mason Ellerbe had a good
question: Does the IFC benefit especially from Con-
tact? How much prestige accrues to fraternities in the
form of positive publicity?

Once the IFC decides whether to support Contact,
the options are many and varied. The IFC could raise
the dues it charges its members and match the EC’s
$8,500 appropriation. The IFC could simply pay $7,500
as it did last year.

Ross also got a promise from Ellerbe — that the
IFC would make a decision by Tuesday, Oct. 19.

It’s no easy situation. But Contact is the IFC’s baby,
at least in theory. To back out drastically now, or to
hint publically at dropping Contact in the future
would tarnish what is already a not untarnished im-
age.

Ring-tum Phi

P.O. Box 899, Lexington, Va. 24450

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate scheol year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

 

BGMOPAA CHIE .iciccrccceroccccccecrecceGneedeeetresreeteeeeestnebene Todd Smith
Business Manager...........eseeeeeeeeseeee Beer relcdtieedecatesstveves Steve Perry
Managing Editor ...........ccscecscvcecceeecssecengusecsverenccrees Evans Attwell
| reer errr errr 7) Esc ee John Cleghorn
Sports Editor. ...... ccc cceceeeeeneveevecevensneereeereeeereseeeses G, Bruce Potter
Wms HANNO oo iva cep hehe cveecccscccgeagcbecvcdecesagerccestens B. Scott Tilley
Head Photographer .......cccscscccccccccccvesecsessvseesseescrisees David Sprunt
PROLOMTAPNETS 0... ccecdicccerccsnencecerreepererscepereee Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Jeffery Lis, Robert Miller
RREPOPUELS oc ceccccesccccssesesevecsseeesonreers Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

Norma Ann Claxton, Barry Flemming, John Harrison
Andrew Hoppes, Nelson Patterson, Bill Roberts
Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler, Mike Stachura

Advertising Manager ........-sscecevccceeecrreerceteveeneeeossnsenes Tom O'Brien
py eer ier ei ee ee a

Brad Houston, Tim Mulraney, Jim Wood
Civediation MOUABET igus crc cccre cee Ere boiee tics teerscesaceeeeerncneeees Jim Wood

 
 

Video games seem to draw as many patrons as do the chicken burgers at Lloyd’s of Lexington. This
fast food restaurant has come a long way from its rocky start two years ago. (Phi photo by Eric Camp-
bell)

‘Lloyd’s’ climbs to success

By TED LECLERCQ
Special To The Phi

Lloyd’s of Lexington, that
chicken sandwich emporium,
might well be compared to Mec-
ca, the Saudi Arabian spritual
center. What other local site
draws as many students? At
two in the morning, after an in-
tense night of carousing, just
where are you likely to be?
Unless you’re down the road,
you’re probably at Lloyd’s.

Although many students
patronize this most convenient
establishment, few know the
brief but rocky beginnings of
Lloyd’s of Lexington.

Operating since November of
1980, Lloyd’s has become a focal
point for W&L late night munch-
ing. Yet for a year, Lloyd’s
teetered on the brink of finan-
cial disaster. During the first
two months, owner Lloyd Smith
spent 10,000 borrowed dollars to
get things going, and of that,
lost $6,000.

Things looked bleak, but, said
Lloyd, “I had something to pro-
ve to Hardee’s (former
employer) and to myself.’’

With a credit extension from
his food supplier and borrowing
against his car, Lloyd’s stayed
open.

“The banks wanted me to
shut my doors — I wouldn’t,”
Lloyd said. “The restaurant
was the Lord’s purpose (for
me).’’

Hanging in there with little
other than faith and resolve,
Lloyd has increased his gross
earnings some 650% in almost
two years. Yet, with his increas-
ed earnings, Lloyd’s overall
profit has remained relatively
modest.

As gross earnings have in-
creased, Lloyd has sought to
maintain the high quality of his
food. Unlike Hardee’s,
which uses frozen patties, the
hamburger meat at Lloyd’s is
bought fresh daily from the
White Front grocery, Lloyd
said.

Additionally, Lloyd’s roast
beef is sliced from a large rump
roast and is not “processed beef
with fillers” like that of his
competition, he said.

“One question that frequently
came up,” said Lloyd, ‘was
why I didn’t serve beer with
our food.’’ His two-part
response was that his lease
specifically prohibited it and
that most students are obnox-
ious enough as it is after a big

party without more beer.’
Although original sentiment felt
Lloyd’s would not make it
because he did not sell beer,
things have worked out because
most people are tired of drink-
ing when they finally make it
there.

In large part, these late night
munchers have made Lloyd’s a
success.

“The turning point, was when
we opened 24 hours a day,”
Lloyd said. Lloyd’s became the
only all-night restaurant in the
city.

The restaurant’s support has
come primarily from the W&L
student body.

“‘A local may sneak in, but
they know it’s W&L’s place
after five o’clock,”’ Lloyd said.

By far, his busiest hours are

from 12 to 3 a.m., on Thursday,
Saturday and Sunday morn-
ings.
. Lloyd’s will be celebrating its
second anniversary in Novem-
ber. With quality food and
unbeatable hours, Lloyd’s has
become the way to end the even-
ing. It’s almost chic to be seen
there at 3 a.m. What an asset to
trashed, starving, yet always
fashion-conscious W&L _ stu-
dents.

Cartoon sale starts today in Pit

“Eh, What’s up, Doc?”’

What’s up is the value of
animation cel paintings,
according to collectors of these
unusual fragments of American
popular culture.

More than 250 of these paint-
ings are the subject of a special
exhibit and sale. Washington &
Lee will host this event Thurs.
-Fri., Oct. 14-15, 1982 from 10
a.m. until 7 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Center (by the Cockpit).
The public is invited.

Animation cel paintings, call-
ed ‘‘cels,” are the paintings ac-
tually filmed in making ani-
mated cartoons. Each char-
acter is painted by hand on a
clear sheet of acetate, usually
11” x 14” or larger, then placed

against a background and pho-
tographed one-by-one to pro-
duce a reel of motion picture
film. Cels are the culmination of
the artistic process — the final
image that is photographed by
the camera.

A representative of Gallery
Lainzberg, the nation’s best-
known specialist in this unique
art form, will be on hand to
answer questions.

The Exhibit/Sale highlights
the work of two veteran Warner
Bros. _producer/directors:
Chuck Jones, creator of Wile E.
Coyote and the Roadrunner,
and Pepe le Pew; and Friz
Freleng, who created Tweety
and Sylvester, and brought
Yosemite Sam to life. Both
Jones and Freleng have been

cartooning for more than 50
years and both have been
honored with several Academy
Awards.

There will also be animation
cel paintings of their other crea-
tions — Bugs Bunny, Daffy
Duck and the Tasmanian Devil.
Some of these paintings have
been signed.

Of equal importance in the ex-
hibit is a collection of animation
cel paintings from some Walt
Disney films including ‘‘The
Jungle Book,’’ ‘‘Robin Hood,”
“Rescuers,” and ‘The Fox and
the Hound.” A selection of vin-
tage Disney animation draw-
ings from the 1930’s and 1940’s,
including a few choice drawings
of Mickey Mouse, will also be
offered.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982, Page 3

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va.

463-3338

Monday-
Saturday

9a.m.-la.m.
Sunday 10a.m.-la.m.

 

 

  
    
    

SPALIRY
©

| The
great place
to

ee

 

 

 

 

 

e

great place

to dine!

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982

 

 

Republicans roll

By B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Features Editor

A visit to campus Tuesday by
U.S. Congress hopeful Kevin
Miller kicked off a week of flur-
ried activities as Washington
and Lee’s fall campaign moved
into full swing.

The week culminated today
with a visit from Republican
Senate candidate Paul Trible
and a mock election.

Miller, a Republican hoping
to fill the seat being vacated by
the retirement of M. Caldwell
Butler, was officially in town
for the opening of Lexington’s
Republican headquarters, but
he spent several hours here on
campus.

A reception, press con-
ference, meeting with Presi-
dent Huntley, and a visit to the
blood drive were among the ac-
tivities that took place during
his time here.

Among the many comments
Miller made, the sharpest were
directed at Richard Davis, the
Democratic candidate for U.S.
Senate and a comment Davis
made last week in Alexandria.
Concerning social security,
Davis told a group of retired
citizens:

‘‘When the time comes for the
government to pay us back,
they ought to pay us back. I
don’t care where it comes from.
If that means tough luck for the
younger generation coming
along, that’s just tough luck.”

Miller said in response, ‘‘I
can’t believe he said that. He’s
made some silly statements,
but I think that one is totally ir-
responsible. If there’s anything
we need to do, it’s to restore
confidence in the social security
system.”

oe eS

YOU CAN WAIT YEARS FOR

  

;
'
ae
<

through town

This is what you call a media event. Republican Kevin Miller, vy-
ing for US Congress, is seen here with College Republicans and
local leaders opening party headquarters on Washington Street.
(Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Miller also indicated that he
is pleased with the “clean”
election taking place here in the
6th district, and took time to
stress the different views on the
issues taken by him and his op-
ponent, Democrat James Olin.
Miller supports the third stage
of the federal tax decrease,
repeal of the Davis-Bacon act,
and adoption of a national right
to work law, all measures Olin
is opposed to.

Mock Election Today

The mock election today will
be the culmination of a week’s
work by both the College Re-
publicans and the Young Demo-
crats. Sponsored by the Wash-
ington and Lee Political
Review, the election is open this
afternoon until 5 p.m. The Dem-
ocrats have Olin and Davis on
the ballot for Congress and
Senate, respectively; the
Republicans have Miller and
Senate candidate Paul S. Tri-
ble.

A JOB WITH RESPONSIBILITY,

OR YOU CAN GET
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE NAVY
NOW.

A civilian job with responsibility may take years to ob-
tain, even with a college degree. But if you meet Navy
standards, after four months of Officer Candidate
School (OCS), you can become a Navy officer. And that
means lots of responsibility, a good salary and fringe
benefits, including travel, post-graduate educational
opportunities, 30 days’ paid vacation earned annually,

plus more.

if you’re getting your degree now, contact your col-
lege Placement Office to find out when a Navy
Representative will be on campus. Send your resume

or call:

NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

Trible was on campus this
afternoon at a Mock Election
Rally staged by the CRs. To-
night, his wife Rosemarie will
be at Sweet Briar College to
speak at 7 p.m. There, she will
announce to the media the
results of today’s mock election
and one at Radford College, the
first two in the state this year.

Ariel

wants
you

October 31 has been set as the
deadline for submitting works
to Ariel, W&L’s student literary
magazine. The staff of Ariel will
consider short stories, essays,
one-act plays, poetry, and pho-
tographs for publication in the
Fall issue.

Submissions may be left in

‘the Ariel mailbox on the first

floor of Payne Hall. For more
information, call Rick Swagler
at 463-9206.

 

 

By EDWIN BELL
Phi Entertainment Writer

Billy Price and the Keystone Rhythm Band’s first album is the
product of many performances and hard work.

Green Dolphin Records released the album ‘“‘Is it Over?”’ in 1980,
but somehow it has resurfaced just recently. Billy Price has been -
around for a long time and has certainly paid his dues. He grew up
in New Jersey, where he was influenced by the sounds of rhythm
and blues. People such as Bobby Bland, Otis Redding, Sam Cooke, -
James Brown, and Jackie Wilson have made their mark on Billy
Price. In the late 1960s Price formed the Rhythm Kings who
became well-known throughout the New Jersey area.

He is probably best known for his work with guitarist Roy
Buchanan. Price was Buchanan’s lead vocalist on two albums and
toured the U.S. with him. Also a cover of Tyrone Davis’ ‘‘Can I
change My Mind” received considerable national airplay.

Review: Billy Price

In 1978 Billy Price formed the Keystone Rhythm Band, which has
become popular in Central and Western Pennsylvania, Washington
D.C., Virginia, Maryland, and the Southeast. The band has opened
for many well-known acts such as Muddy Waters, Southside
Johnny and Asbury Dukes, Greg Allman and The Nighthawks. The
Keystone Rhythm Band features Billy Price (vocals), Eric Leeds
(baritone saxophone), Jack Emminger (tenor saxophone), T.
Valentine (bass), Steve Binsberger (keyboards), Dave Dodd
(drums), and Keith Grimes (guitar). Also studio musicians Kenny
Blake (alto saxophone), Charles Roethal (guitar) and Don Garvin
(guitar and producer) contribute their talents to the album. The
components for a pure rhythm and blues band are surely within
this group.

The album opens with a classic R&B song, ‘‘Eldorado Cafe’ that
is carried by Price’s soulful voice and smooth combinations of the
alto and tenor sax. The second song ‘‘She’s Tough’”’ is about a
woman who “walked past the clock and the clock won’t tell time.”
Probably the highlight of the song is the laugh of Billy Price and the
smooth and perfect timing of the vocals and saxophones. The next
song is the title cut ‘‘Is It Over?’’ The last song of the first side is
“Slip Away’’; it is about the plea for his baby to slip away with him
for awhile. This song best exhibits Price’s ability to time and
phrase the words of a song.

The second side also contains good songs. (‘‘MaMa, Come Quick,
and Bring Your) Lickin’ Stick’’ is paced at a faster tempo and ac-
cented by a drum solo using brushes. ‘‘Please Send Me Someone To
Love’’ is a love ballad that is built around the remorseful sound of
the baritone saxophone. The last two songs “‘Steppin’ Up in Class”
and ‘‘Ace of Spades” are fast stepping soul classics.

If you like smooth-sounding rhythm and blues music this album
is one for your collection. Billy Price has been called ‘‘one of the
best rhythm and blues singers around’’ and the band was named
“Artist of the Year” in 1979 by a Pittsburgh Music Magazine. The
alto, baritone, and tenor saxophones mesh with the soulful singing
of Billy Price to produce the New Jersey rhythm and blues sound
that Price was raised on.

 

 

 

Librarian offers term paper help

 

Members of the staff at the
University Libary will be offer-
ing term paper clinics next
week. Anyone interested in
assistance in selecting a topic
for an assigned paper, finding
sources of information on a

AIR FARES
INCREASE OCT1—
BUY EARLY — SAVE!

topic or organizing a paper is
welcome to attend.

There will be two sessions:
one for Social Science papers
(including Sociology, An-
thropology, Economics, Geog-
raphy, History, Political

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

g Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

ie
Ss g
2

WINTER SKI TRIPS

Call Now

CALL
463-7174

 

Science and Psychology); and
one for Humanities (including
Literature, Art, Music, Philo-
sophy and Religion).

The Social Science Term
Paper Clinic will be held Tues-
day, Oct. 19 at 4 p.m. The
Humanities Term Paper Clinic
will be held Wednesday, Oct. 20
at4p.m.

The clinics are open to all
students. Anyone interested in
the clinics please meet at the
Reference Desk.

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5966

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982, Page 5

 

 

 

 

Budgets

(continued from page 1)
‘Realistically, we know we
can’t ask the EC for $19,000,”
Ron Magee of the Student
Association for Black Unity told
the EC Thursday night.
Originally, it was thought that
SABU was going to ask the EC
for $19,000 at the hearings. As it
turned out, this was the entire
budget and the organization
was only asking for $10,000.

The EC decided to try to meet
the need for minority-oriented
speakers and entertainment by
funding groups other than
SABU.

“It’s an interest we can meet
through a more careful direc-
tion of our other committees.
We can tell Contact, ‘‘you will
bring in one speaker agreed
upon with SABU,” Vlahoplus
said. In the end, the EC ap-
propriated $1,200 and stipulated
that SABU and Contact agree
on a speaker together. The vote
was unamimous.

With $59,872 left to ap-
propriate, the EC heard from
Kevin Brown and Luke Cor-
nelius of the Outing Club who
presented their ‘‘bare-bones
budget of $1,342.86.

Vice President Morgan Grif-
fith moved to appropriate $400
and Rep. Ken Terwilleger said
that he hoped the money would
be spent on ‘‘safety items.” The
$400 figure passed.

Contact
“We're ticked ... we’re ticked

o

at the Interfraternity Council
for one thing. We can’t be ex-
pected to foot the bill for every
committee,’ Ross exclaimed
about the Contact speakers
series. Contact was funded by
both the IFC and the EC.

But Thursday night the EC:

had no idea whether Contact
would get any money from the
IFC.

“The IFC is mismanaged to
begin with. We’ve got to get
some kind of permanent fun-
ding for Contact. I don’t know
what the solution is,’’ Ross said.

“It would be very nice for a
permanent fund system; I’m
just trying to cover the bases
for this year,’’ Mike Drinkwater
of the committee replied. The
general feeling among the EC
members seemed to be one of
wanting to cut the EC portion of
the Contact budget to force the
IFC to pull its fair share.

The IFC was not present.

‘Inherent in any motion is the
idea that we’re going after the
IFC,” Ross said after it was
moved that Contact be given
$8,500 of its requested $12,000.

‘‘What else do they do besides
pick up their trash? They
should want to do this — it’s
good PR for them,” Griffith
commented. The $8,500 figure
passed.

Todd Smith and Steve Perry
represented the Ring-tum Phi
before the EC. The Phi re-
quested $12,309 but was told by

 

ORGANIZATION

Hockey Club
Mock Convention
International Club
Rugby Club
Fencing Club
Film Society

W&L Political Rev.
Ariel
Excelsior/Focus
Calyx

SBA

SABU

Contact
Ring-tum-Phi
Outing Club

SAB

EC

LAST YEAR THIS YEAR COST PER
ALLOCATION ALLOCATION STUDENT
~~ 360.00 21

_ 300.00 18

150.00 1,050.00 61

609.56 495.38 .28

600.00 700.00 40
1,125.00 1,200.00 .70
900.00 1,150.00 .67
2,100.00 1,800.00 1.05
600.00 39

10,000.00 10,000.00 5.83
15,825.00 16,800.00 9.80

_ 1,200.00 .70

9,000.00 8,500.00 4.96
10,180.00 11,750.00 6.85

- 400.00 .23

38,915.23 40,022.00 23.35
8,145.00 8,300.00 4.84

 

 

the EC that since the Publica-
tions Board had so much money
(over $7000) that The Phi’s
budget would be cut.

“IT don’t see why we should
give them that much when
they’ve got money in that
fund,’’ Terwilleger commented.

Griffith replied to his fellow
EC member, ‘The purse
strings control an awful lot. I
don’t think we have a right to
tell them to dip into their fund.”

Smith explained to the EC
that the purpose of the Publica-
tions Board and the fund is to
“insulate” the EC from law
suits and cost overruns. Conse-
quently, the Publications Board
also insulates The Phi from the
EC, theoretically.

“I feel like we’re no longer a

- semi-autonomous body,’’ Smith
stated. The Phi was given

EC ponders parties, honor

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

Danny Einstein, president of
the Chi Psi Fraternity appeared
before the Executive Commit-
tee to explain his fraternity’s
role in the incident at the
Pavilion last Friday night and
to ask for the Committee’s sup-
port and help.

The fraternity sponsored a
party at Zollman’s Pavilion
which was raided by State
Police and sheriff’s deputies.
(See related story.)

“You do everything you can
to ensure that everyone knows
the ABC regulations and the
IFC can see that the fraternities
know them. We just want your
support,” Einstein told the EC
Monday night. The EC seemed
to agree that such support was
in order, and decided to draft a
vote of confidence.

“The police could come to
almost any party and nuke us,”
Senior Rep. John Vlahoplus
said, ‘‘If this is a precedent,
then we’ll have to start carding
people at Fancy Dress. It’s a
far-reaching thing.”’

The Committee also reviewed
a proposal from the faculty to
raise the distribution re-
quirements to 53 credits (ex-
cluding exemptions). This is not
so much an increase in number
as it is a more definite specifi-
cation of required courses.
Vlahoplus referred to this as
“legislating students into

courses.’’ The Committee plans
to talk to their constituents and
discuss the matter at the Oc-
tober 25 meeting. The faculty
will not vote on the proposed
changes until the November
meeting.

Markham Pyle, a_ junior,
presented the committee with a
set of proposed White Book revi-
sions. The committee reviewed
the revisions and discussed
them at length with Pyle and
other members of the student
body present at the meeting.
The consensus of the committee
was that the changes were too
drastic and would entail a com-
pletely different system from

 

the one currently employed.

Pyle said that he and others
were motivated to formulate
the revision because he
“gathered that there is a great
loss of confidence in the
system.”

Rep. Ken Terwilleger said
that he didn’t ‘‘see lack of con-
fidence as grounds for chang-
ing a system. ’’

President Bennett Ross
stated that the EC is ‘‘com-
mitted to making changes’”’ and
welcomed any other sugges-
tions for revision.

Ross also announced that
final budget approval will be
October 18.

MOUNT

PRESENTS:

An outdoor party with,

Pitchfork
From Duke U.

 

With tapes by
Bristol Sound

From 2-6?
On Sun., Oct. 17

_Free admission! B.Y.0.B.

 

a a li Be

Minn, Minn, tll Sin ttle Minn, atti.

 

$11,750, and Ross commented
that ‘$11,750 will say that we
realize the paper can be great. I
think the Pub Board would be
amenable to paying $600 or $700
for operating expenses.”

The SAB was the final
organization to come before the
EC. Lanier Edge, this year’s
chairman, ended up taking the
remainder of the funds and
some extra. In order for the EC

to give the SAB the predeter-
mined $40,000, it was necessary
to cut $200 from the SBA budget,
$50 from the Political Review,
$50 from the Calyx. The SAB
ended up with $40,022. Ross
closed the meeting, saying,
“There is no money anywhere
else.”

These appropriations are only
tentative, pending final EC ap-
proval October 18.

Sa ll Mine Ain lll Ain a Ae a cll i

 

 

 

IN
The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

Blue
Sparks

October 19

“It's The Place To Be”

ee ae ee ee 0” ee ee” ee ~*~ _e lee

 

 

 

 

 

a

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982

 

Washburn shifts

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi Staff Writer

In September the University
announced the formation of a
new group to develop and pro-
mote long-range giving and
estate plans of Washington and
Lee alumni and friends.

As part of that plan William
C. Washburn, executive secre-
tary of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc. will step aside to
become an associate director of
development in the new group.

‘“‘My responsibility will be to
assist the development office in
promoting and advertising (to
Washington and Lee alumni)
the whole field of estate plan-
ning and deferred giving,”
Washburn said Tuesday. He
described his new post as a ‘‘dif-
ferent phase of the same kind of
work.”’

Washburn, 64, joined the ad-
ministration in 1958 as Alumni
Secretary. “It was a public
relations position to develop
and maintain alumni chapters
throughout the country,’ he
said. In addition to the alumni
chapters, Washburn was re-
sponsible for directing and rais-
ing the Alumni Fund until that
job was taken over by the
development office in 1968.

According to a recent article
in the W&L Alumni Magazine,
the number of alumni chapters
has doubled under Washburn’s
guidance. Reunion programs
have been expanded, and alum-
ni travel opportunities  in-
stituted during his tenure. The
creation of the Special Alumni
Conference, the Distinguished
Alumni Award, the Summer
Alumni College and the con-
struction of the Alumni House
came under Washburn’s leader-
ship.

Washburn has seen changes
at Washington and Lee since he
first came here as a freshman
in 1936. In the late 1930s most
students did not have cars,
everyone wore coats and ties,
and Saturday classes were no
big deal. Now, almost 50 years

Tennyson

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

Approximately 200 people at-
tended the inauguration of the
Shannon-Clark lecture series in
English in Lee Chapel Monday
night. Dr. Edgar Finley Shan-
non, Commonwealth Professor
of English at the University of
Virginia, honorary vice presi-
dent of the Tennyson Society,
and a 1939 graduate of W&L,
spoke on the superhuman
aspirations expressed in Alfred,
Lord Tennyson’s poetry.

After greetings by Dr. Sidney
Coulling, chairman of _ the
department of English, and an
introduction by President
Robert Huntley, Shannon, past
UVapresident, noted that ‘‘my
father and especially my
mother’. would be honored .by

later Washington and Lee has
changed for the better, Wash-
burn said. And it is a change in
which he has been instrumental
as executive secretary of
Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc.

“Physical changes on the
campus, certainly in the last ten
years, have been magnificent”
Washburn said. ‘‘For a student
today the facilities available
are much better than they were
for a student in my day.”’

Washburn, takes no credit for
himself for the success of the 10-
year capital development pro-
gram guided by President
Robert E.R. Huntley. ‘‘The suc-
cess of that program has been
due to the magnetic personality
of Bob Huntley,’’ Washburn
said, “‘and to the whole idea of
this 10-year development pro-
gram we have been in.”’

But the contribution of Bill
Washburn to the development
of Washington and Lee has been
substantial. In his own words,
“The alumni office has been out
in the grass roots, cultivating
the seeds of support for the
university.”

With regard to student life,
Washburn has seen a metamor-
phosis from the straight-laced
style of the late 1930s through
the radical sixties to the pro-
gressive age of the 1980s. Upon
returning to Washington and
Lee in 1958 to become Alumni
Secretary Washburn said.
“What struck me was the
number of students that had
automobiles.

“There was no. other
outstanding change, except the
students seemed more mobile
than in the late thirties.’ he
said

Gradually though, the con-
cept of “going down the road”
changed to “giris coming over
here.”’ Washburn said.

“There are more occasions
now for the young ladies to
come to Lexington than there
were in my day,” he said.

“There have been many

gears

changes in the fraternity and
non-fraternity system.’ he
said. “On the bad side, the
deterioration of the houses was
bound to come.

‘The students went through a
period where their attitudes
towards their property and
others’ property was not as sen-
sitive as it was in my day,”’ said
Washburn, who was a W&L Sig-
ma Alpha Epsilon fraternity
member. “‘But that attitude is
changing now; the students are
much more sensitive to proper-
ty rights.”

Washburn also noted a trend
of students moving from frater-
nities to apartments in town.

‘‘When I was in school a stu-
dent looked forward to being a
senior so he could live in the
house.”” Washburn said. Now
most fraternity members do
their time in the house as
sophomores and move on.

“The national trend of subur-
bia hit all college campuses and
it became the accepted thing to

have apartments,” he said.

“That had something. to do
with the ‘modus operandi’ of the
ladies,’”’ Washburn said.

‘Ladies were once required
to stay in approved rooming
houses,’’ he said. ‘Now they
can stay wherever they want.”

As for academics at Washing-
ton and Lee, several things
have changed during Wash-
burn’s time. Notably, the Satur-
day classes which were dropped
in the late 1960s and the addi-
tion, in the mid 1970s of the
short spring semester.

When Saturday classes were
dropped, Washburn said,
“There was some feeling at the
time that it would be detrimen-
tal to intramural sports.”

“T don’t think that was
generally true,” he said.

The addition of the short term
in the spring has been ac-
cepted as good both by the
students and the faculty.”
Washburn said.

Next year a new grading
system will allow teachers to

 

“Yes, what can I do for you?” says retiring Alumni secretary
Bill Washburn, who has three notepads on his desk to handle the in-
coming calls. Washburn will move into the directorship of a new
group which promotes long-range giving and estate planning. (Phi

photo by David Sprunt)

give students plus or minus
grades allowing a greater flex-
ibility in assigning term marks.
“I would think it will be good to
allow greater flexibility,” he
said.

The prospects for the future
of W&L are bright, Washburn
said. ‘Assuming no catastro-
phic economic problems, I envi-
sion Washington and Lee’s
future as very healthy.”

‘“‘We can expect our people to
support us the way they always
have,’’ he said.

Washburn graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1940 with
a B.A. in Economics. After
graduation, he went straight to
work for the ship building divi-

sion of Bethlehem Steel in New
York City.

“Because I was in a war
manufacturing company, I was
deferred from service in the
military until Oct. 1943,”’ he
said. He was then drafted into
the Navy as a supply officer.

After being discharged by the
Navy in 1946, he returned to his
home state of Alabama to work
for the Gulf States Paper Cor-
poration in Tuscaloosa.

After another brief stint with
the Navy as a procurement of-
ficer during the Korean War,
Washburn went back to the
paper company for a few years
before coming to Washington
and Lee.

scholar kicks off new lecture series

the lecture series bearing his
father’s name.

In his lecture, the renowned
scholar remarked that men
“wish to transcend the limita-
tion of their humanity.” This
“continuing crisis of the spirit’’
is shown constantly throughout
Tennyson’s poetry. Tracing the
development of _ this
superhuman theme from one of
Tennyson’s first poems, ‘‘Ar-
mageddon,’’ to his last, “In
Memorium,”’ Shannon told the
audience that Tennyson, while
realizing that the human could
not become divine, believed
man could elevate his spirit and
transcend time and death by
practicing unselfish and selfless
love.

Taking the title of his work
from. Tennyson’s final poem,

Shannon explained that ‘the
Thews of Anakim,”’ the title of
his lecture, alluded to the
Biblical inhabitants of Canaan
whose extraordinary size and
might (‘“‘Thews” refers to mus-
cle or sinewy tissue) made
them appear as superhuman to
the Israelis.

Earlier in the day, Shannon
had lectured the English staff
and students interested in
British or American literature
on Tennyson at the University’s
Blue Ridge estate, Skylark.
Shannon, after reviewing Ten-
nyson’s life, works, and theme,
surprised those present by play-
ing copies of original recordings
of Tennyson reading his own
poetry.

“The lecture series is design-
ed to give interested students

and faculty the chance to talk
with an eminent scholar in an
informal atmosphere,” said
Coulling, adding that the series
is designed for a two-day visit
and lecture period. ‘‘The lec-
ture was beautifully worked
out. We in the department are
pleased to see (the series)
begun.”

The lecture series, privately
endowed by an anonymous
donor, takes its name from
Edgar Finley Shannon, chair-
man of W&L’s department of
English from 1914 to 1938 and
father of the series’ first lec-
turer, and Harriet M.F. Clark, a
grandmother to the anonymous
donor and advocate of liberal
arts education. Only one lec-
turer will speak per academic
year under the series name.

 

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon

Coulling noted that the donor re-
mains anonymous in hope that
others will endow departments
in the university for similar
liberal arts lecture series.
The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982, Page 7

 

Shillington: the poet-professor defies labels

 

Keith Shillington, in typical regalia, sits in the grandstands at the
Oct. 2 Homecoming game against Randolph-Macon at Ashland.
(W&L photo by Charles Mason)

“Cups 99

Cups-
Dainty Fragile china cups
Standing mirrored by their sister saucers
Rich cream colored
Bearing unrealistic flowers that never this orb
or any other planet bore

Cups
Holding streaming liquid drunk by vampire lips
Whose breaking is held within these hands.

Lives
Frail and tissue, sin scared lives
Being mimicked by their Fellowmen

Trusting mankind!
Flecked with all unnatural traits that never the

God intended His creation bear.
Lives

Holding guarded secrets known only to one’s
conscience’s lips.
Whose spanning is held within these hands.

 

pesos won
UGLIEST BARTENDER

BEER CHUG
AND SANDWICH -EAT ING CONTEST
ToDAy AND Tomorrow
SEE RICH WEISSMAN

PROCEEDS GO TO HIGHT MS.

 

 

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

On the shelf above a cluttered
desk in the Chemistry depart-
ment, there sits a worn binder
with yellowed pages of poetry
between its covers. The first
work is entitled “‘Cups,’’ and it’s
signed by James K. Shillington.

“Cups” was written by a
young man aspiring to the fine
arts, and creative writing and

‘ teaching especially. But a col-

lege professor warned him
about the tedium of reading
other people’s work.

Instead, Shillington became a
chemist and a teacher. Now, he
is a legend among W&L’s pre-
med students and alumni, and a
figure highly respected by
fellow science professors.

“He makes you work hard
from day one, but you learn
Organic chemistry,’”’ a fellow
faculty member said. ‘And
your grades equal the work put
in, That means, in his case, that
(the grades) must be above
average.”

Shillington is not the average
professor. Usually seen bedeck-
ed in stripes or loud colors, and
he always wears a fishing hat
adorned by sunglasses, iden-
tification card and a poppy.

“The cartoon in The Phi
(Sept. 28) didn’t show the poppy
in my hat. They de-poppified
my hat,’’ Shillington said. ‘I
guess that’s the same as
deflowering it,’’ he said.

Shillington can be inscrutable
at times, and his conversation
intermingles dry wit, joviality
and seriousness. He refers to
his teaching as ‘interfering
with people.”’

By ‘‘interfering,” Shillington
said he meant ‘making lives
hectic.”’

Shillington interupted a re-
cent interview to shout lab in-
structions to students through-
out the lab. That may be unor-
thodox, but it is pure Shill-
ington.

“When he comes to some-
thing he really wants you to
know, he makes sure you catch
it,” said one pre-med student.
“‘He’d say, ‘This binds to this,
THIS BINDS TO THIS! THIS
BINDS TO THIS!!!”

And yet, “interfering” also
means enjoying seeing students
learn.

“] don’t know why one
teaches, but I like it,’’ Shill-
ington said.

He is dedicated to his science,
and hates to see it get the ‘‘short
shift.” ‘I believe science (train-
ing) should be started earlier in
life. . . .Most students, however,
don’t take science until high
school, probably in their last
year or two,” he said.

As he flipped through a lab
manual, Shillington lamented
the University’s “liberal arts”
label. ‘‘Liberal arts is not a pro-
per name for the degree or cur-
riclum. It cheats science.
‘Arts,’ by definition, points to
the humanities,’’ he said.

-These are hardly the words
one might expect from Shill-
ington, who as an Iowa farmboy
dreamed of being a poet. (He
also considered being a florist,
and his lab is brightened by the
healthy plants nestled in every
window of his lab.)

Shillington pursued his
writing in college, joining a club
where he wrote something
“every other week. We sat
around and critiqued each
other’s works.’’ He composed
sonnets, poems and tributes un-
til ‘‘I burned out at 40.

“Everyone burns out at 40,”
he said.

But it is hard to think of Shill-
ington as ‘‘burnt out.”’ Active in
theater all his life, Shillington
will portray Cardinal Wolsey in
next week’s W&L production of
‘‘A Man for All Seasons.”

In addition, he collects fine
art, reads, gardens and cooks.

In his home garden, Shill-
ington grows ‘‘a few flowers
and some vegetables, like ‘to-
mahhhtoes.’ In Virginia, we say
‘trahhhsh basket’ and ‘to-
mahhhtoes’ and ‘plahhhster
cast’. Not ‘Plahhhster
cahhhst,’” he quipped.

Shillington turns enigmatic
when one questions why an
academically accomplished
chemist like him would stay at a
small school. ‘I’ve stayed here.
Why? I don’t know. They’ve
decided I could stay here,” he
said, pointing in the direction of
the Colonnade and its ad-
ministration offices.

Since he began teaching at
Washington and Lee in 1953,
Shillington has seen the rules
relaxed. The informality of the
last ten to fifteen years is
perhaps the most obvious dif-
ference.

“Oh God, has it changed. The
school was much more rigorous
and formal then,”’ he said. ‘‘Do
you still observe a speaking
tradition? Must you still wear a
coat and tie? We have had a
violent change,”’ he said.

 

Under the dress code, stu-
dents had to wear coat and tie to
lab. “In the Chemistry depart-
ment, we had to petition the ad-
ministration or order to allow
students to change before lab,”
said Shillington (who was wear-
ing no tie). ‘“‘They brought their
change of clothing, and we
changed out in the hall.”’

Student dress may have
changed, but for Shillington the
students have remained the
same academically.

“T’ve not noticed much dif-
ference, though I have had pre-
meds mainly. They are terribly
hard workers and always have
been,” he said. “I like the
students, though they don’t
think so.”

A student survey in the 70s
ranked Shillington as the third
most popular professor.
Students still look forward to
the halftime of Homecoming,
when Shillington bestows a kiss
on the Queen.

Popularity notwithstanding,
Shillington is tough with his
students’ conduct in and out of
class. He distributes warnings
that if he finds a pre-med in-
volved in fraternity hazing, he
will note it in the pre-med’s
recommendation to medical
school. And pre-meds attach a
lot of importance to the Shill-
ington Recommendation.

“‘T hate hazing. No ‘doctor-to-
be’ can be that inhuman, I tell
my students,”’ he said.

“As I tell my students, I have
a heart of gold.

“But it melts at 170¢
degrees,’’ he quipped.

Asked to describe himself,
Shillington offers another
enigma.

“I don’t know how to describe
myself. That’s not easy. I think
of myself as rolling around in-
side a large envelope,” he mut-
tered, his hands folded together
and his eyes staring straight
ahead.

‘Will that do?”’

id

i

Shillington kisses Homecoming Queen Eleanor Ponder to the
crowd’s delight at halftime. Ponder’s escort, SAE David Purdue,
empathizes at right. Shillington has kissed the Homecoming Queen
since the late 1960s. (W&L phote by Pete Cronin), .
cities

ES SRS ates: . SE. te

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982

 

Dave Cole, Jay O’Brien and two unidentified friends whooping it up in the W&L Cockpit Friday night
as The Deal played to a packed house. Tuesday night The White Animals also drew a capacity crowd,
which is good news for Cockpit managers who have witnessed several disappointing turnouts for this
year’s Tuesdays in the Pit program. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

West German lectures

(continued from page 1)
America it is said quite rightly
that the policy of Detente has
led to a development which is
fatal to Western security ... We
Europeans on the other hand,
say this is all true, but if we give
up ties which have grown over
10 years, then we will be back to
the Cold War of the ’60s.’’

Economically, said Weiss,
Americans allege that Western
Europe’s ties with Russia will
make it dependent on the Soviet
Union.

“This is not true,’”’ he added.
“Our (Germany’s) total ex-
ports to the Soviet Union in 1981
were only one-third of what we
exported to Switzerland or
Austria ... We would not be able
to be blackmailed by the Soviet
Union.”’

In this connection Weiss men-

 

 

 

 

 

tioned the construction of the
pipeline between the Soviet
Union and Western Europe. For
West Germany, a_ country
which must import all of its
natural gas and oil, Russia is
the cheapest source of one of
those resources, natural gas.
The Soviet Union, included
Weiss, is a very reliable trading
partner. However, based on
fears that profits Russia will
make from its sale of natural
gas would be used to further in-
crease its military strength,
President Reagan imposed
sanctions on those Italian,
Japanese, French, English, and
West German companies which
continued to supply products for
the pipeline construction.

Weiss called this a “‘breach of
law because Reagan made
these sanctions applicable to

contracts made two years ago.
We certainly do not want the
United States to determine our
trade policy, (especially) in a
retroactive way.”

Weiss expressed his faith that
this problem can be solved, but
emphasized the danger of weak-
ening America’s ties with
Western Europe. ‘‘If we can be
cut off, without being warned
beforehand, from using Ameri-
can technology, which we pay
for, in our relations with other
nations, then we will do without
it.

‘‘We (the NATO members)
are a family,” concluded Weiss.
“Tf you had a sister, would you
force her to do something she
did not want to do?’’ Unfor-
tunately, Weiss said, President
Reagan told West Germany
what to do.

 

 

Calendar

 

 

Thursday, Oct. 14

BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING:

Philadelphia, PA.

(Det. - 14, 1, 36).

3:30 p.m. — J.V. Soccer: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney. Wilson

Field.

5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: ‘‘Drifting & Dreaming,” H. Kenneth
Williams, ’83. Howe 401. Preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402.
Friday, Oct. 15

7&9p.m. — FILM:
Room. Admission $1.

‘“‘MASH.” University Center Conference

Away Athletic event: Water Polo: Bucknell Tourney.
Saturday, Oct. 16

8:30 a.m. — GRE. Newcomb Hall

11 a.m. — Cross Country: Va. State Division II & III] Champion-

ships.

1:30 p.m. — Football:
Field.

7&9 p.m. — FILM:
Room. Admission $1.

Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney. Wilson

‘‘MASH.” University Center Conference

Away Athletic Events: Soccer: Messiah; Water Polo: Bucknell

Tourney.

Sunday, Oct. 17

7&9 p.m. — FILM:
Room. Admission $1.

“MASH.” University Center Conference

Away Athletic Event: Water Polo: Bucknell Tourney.
Monday, Oct. 18

Noon-2 p.m. FILM:
Classroom C, Lewis Hall. Free.

‘Judge Horton and the Scottsboro Boys.”’

4:30 p.m. — Special Faculty Meeting. Northen Auditorium.
Tuesday, Oct. 19

3:30 p.m. — Soccer: Generals vs. Lynchburg. Wilson Field.

7:30-9:30 p.m. — FILM: “Judge Horton and the Scottsboro Boys.”

Lewis Hall.

Wednesday, Oct. 20
4p.m. — J.V. Soccer: W&L Reserves vs. ‘‘B’’ Team. Wilson Field.

 

Grad schools interview

The following graduate schools
of business will be on campus to
talk with interested students
from all majors about their
graduate programs. Sign-up in
advance please.

University of Pittsburgh,
Tuesday, Oct. 26.

University of North Carolina,
Friday, Oct. 29.

The following law schools will
be visiting W&L in October and

 

 

 

 

ALOHA WOK

463- 9342

fer

Xo
¥ ae

Chinese, Polynesian, and

American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 

| Sun. Buffet 12- 2:30-$4.25]

“Carry-out Available’

Open Tuesday through Sunday
Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10
Closed Saturday Luncheon

November. Please sign up in
advance.

Emory, Wednesday, Oct. 20.

Tulane Law, Monday, Oct. 25,
2-4 p.m.

Pace University, Thursday,
Oct. 28.

Wake Forest, Thursday, Oct.
28.

Richmond, Tuesday, Nov. 2

Washington & Lee, Thursday,
Nov. 4.

Tel seutTH

 

 

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

i need your head
in my business

9 South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, nt —

CP Te Ce emcee nag

OTT NY
Ee

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

 

Bu

PHONE 463-7000

 
 

 

W&L caps off
‘building’ years

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

For the first time in 14 years,
the freshman class at W&L will
not become accustomed to a
campus with major reconstruc-
tion underway.

The only work scheduled for
this year, according to Mr.
Frank Parsons, Assistant to
President Huntley and, since
June, University Editor, is the
minor electrical work yet to be
done on new lights being install-
ed throughout the campus.

“We’re pretty much caught
up as far as renovations are
concerned,” Parsons said in a
recent interview, noting that on-
ly the Steinheimer house near
the Co-op and the no. 32 house
next to the alumni house await
work.

Since President Huntley took
office in 1968, the university has
undergone $36 million worth of
renovation. The aggressive re-
construction program saw the
law school, library, and Warner
Center built, with extensive
remodeling occuring in the
School of Commerce, Tucker,
Reid, and Newcomb Halls and
other buildings.

The majority of the funds us-
ed in the projects came from
alumni gifts and other dona-
tions.

The most recent renovation,
and perhaps the most visible to
the freshman, is the Graham-
Lees Dormitory. Begun in June
1981, the project costing $3.5
million including new fur-
nishings. Finished ahead of
schedule this past June, Gra-
ham-Lees was used for summer
lacrosse and basketball camps.

With the removal of construc-
tion equipment used in the dor-
mitory project came the resur-
facing and landscaping of the

parking lot in front of the
Doremus Gymnasium. In addi-
tion to the $135,000 paving and
resurfacing costs is the cost of
new lighting fixtures for the
area.

“The lighting was bought in a
package deal,’”’ Parsons noted.
“The lights for the parking lot,
the walkway between the main
halls and the library, and in
front of the houses on the front
campus were paid for at one
price.”’

Parsons said the lights near
the library are being installed
because of the lack of light shed
by the other halls in the vicinity
at night. When the architect
recommended that no addi-
tional lighting be installed on
the path during the construction
of the library, it was believed
the light given from classrooms
in the halls where students
would be studying, coupled with
the reflecting lights set in the
ground at the center.of the
walkway islands, would be suf-
ficient.

Few students, however, have
made use of the classrooms,
and the lights are being install-
ed to brighten the area. Studies
are also being made for addi-
tional lighting near Parmley,
Howe, and duPont Halls.

Future plans for renovations
on campus include the possible
conversion of a University-
owned train station south of
campus into a new theater
freshman dormitory near there.
Parsons also said the tennis
courts under the footbridge
may be resurfaced for all-
weather use like the ones above
the stadium, though adding that
any plans are only tentative un-
til new President John D.
Wilson takes office in January.

Seniors

Only two weeks remain
to have your senior pic-

ture taken.

The Calyx

is under

deadline pressures. Late
pictures cannot be put in
the book. Don’t delay!
Sign up in the Co-op now!

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982, Page 9

 

By Robert B. Youngblood
Special to The Phi
Ballet, drama,

bridge Concert-Theatre Series.

Subscribers will enjoy perfor-
mances by the Indianapolis
Ballet Theater on Oct. 23 at 3
p.m., a stage presentation of
Charles Dickens’ “Christmas
Carol” on Dec. 4 at 3 p.m., a con-
cert by The Preservation Hall

Jazz Band on Feb. 8 at 8 p.m.

and a return engagement of the

 

jazz and
chamber music are all part of
the 38th season of the Rock-

 

A favorite of RCTS crowds is the Preservation Hall Jazz Band, which will play Feb. 8 at VMI.

Concert series starts up

area schools will have an oppor-
tunity to learn from the dances
during lecture-demonstrations
lasting the two days before the
performance in Lexington High
School.

At the perfect time of the

season, Charles Jones’
dramatic adaptation of
Dickens’ classic “Christmas

Carol” will be performed at Lex-
ington High. Featuring 19th
Century costume and sets, the
drama also offers song and
dance.

Piedmont Chamber Orchestra
on March 20 at 3 p.m.

Because Washington and Lee
is a major participant, W&L
students are admitted to all
events free of charge.

In its first appearance in
Rockbridge County, the ac-
claimed Indianapolis Ballet
Theatre will present a program
of classical, medieval and
modern dance. The troupe is
known for its equal emphasis on
the theatrical presentation as
well as the dance. Students in

 

 

Classical pianist rocks Lee Chapel

By ROGER DAY

Special to The Phi
Robert Silverman, a Cana-
dian born concert pianist,
presented the debut perfor-
mance of Washington and Lee’s
new Steinway Grand piano in
Lee Chapel Thursday night. Mr.
Silverman displayed his vir-
tuosity by playing from memo-
ry Six Little Pieces, Opus 118 by
Johannes Brahams, ‘‘Moonlight
Sonata’ by Ludwig Beethoven,

The Country Kitchen
An Old Fashion Bakerv

 

8 North Main

Eat in or take out

Birthday and other special occasion
CAKES

 

Hamric & Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

11 W. Nelson 463-2022

 

|

 

 

and the Rachmaninoff Sonata
No.1, winning himself about 150
new fans in the process. Not on-
ly was he an excellent pianist,
but he conveyed a warmth rare-
ly exhibited by a performer of
international caliber.

The highlights of the perfor-
mance included the crowd
favorite, Beethoven’s ‘‘Moon-
light” Sonata, as well as the
conclusion of the Rachmaninoff
Sonata No. 1. Silverman shook

   
  
 

oe

Phone: 703-463-5691 |

the Lee Chapel crowd with his
authoritative mastery of the
keys at the end of the
Rachmaninoff selection. He
captivated the audience as he
stood to play the final few notes.

Mr. Silverman selected an ex-
cellent combination of pieces to
perform. They were selections
which were both familiar
enough to many of the students
to keep their interest and
challenging enough for those in
the audience who were more
knowledgeable in music. As a
result, many of the students and
others in the audience heard
music which they could enjoy
while also appreciating the
tremendous talent behind it.

Mr. Stewart and the Concert
Guild board is to be commended
for arranging such an excellent
opening performance for the
1982 Concert Guild season. The
next concert will be Dec. 2 at
Lee Chapel with the Boehm
Woodwind Quintette.

  

We Care For You in A
Very Personal Way

 

 

 

PHARMACY

ONE NORTH MAIN STREET
(CORNER OF WASHINGTON)

LEXINGTON, VA

 
 
   

Rugby Super High Vitamins-100’s..... $9.75
All Hudson Vitamins..........
CPSP O54 5 hc cvs vccanee

BIERER’S

..++ “price
snkk hs 3.15

463-3119

rye

      
      

    
  
    

 
   

 

A pe te aS. tat me ene

ee

 
ee

Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982

Scores three touchdowns

 

By ANDREW P. HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Senior halfback Chris
Cavalline rushed for 120 yards
and three touchdowns to lead
the Washington and Lee football
team to a 28-14 victory Saturday
at Maryville College in
Maryville, Tennessee.

W&L’s victory, which boosted
the Generals’ record to 3-1
overall and 3-0 in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference,
was particularly impressive be-
cause W&L played without the
services of junior quarterback
Al Paradise.

Paradise missed the game
with a sprained ankle.

Sophomore John Thompson
filled in admirably though,
completing 8 of 11 passes for 137
yards. ‘‘He missed on his first
two attempts. Then he settled
in. He came through with about
six consecutive completions,’
noted W&L head coach Gary
Fallon.

Senior Phil Hrabar also had
an excellent day. Hrabar had
five receptions for 79 yards, in-
cluding a 35-yarder that set up a
W&L touchdown.

Maryville opened the scoring,
though, on a 27-yard pass from
Pat O’Brien to Gene Wheatley.
O’Brien passed for 191 yards on
the afternoon, but was in-
tercepted twice by the W&L
defense.

W&L regained the lead with

 

PEPSI * DR PEPPER
MOUNTAIN DEW

95°‘ 2 Liter bottle

 

MICHELOB-12-0z. NR’s
$9®9 case $949 Six

RIUNITE
LAMBRUSCO-BIANCO

$329 75 Liter Bottle

 

 

J. ROGET SPUMANTE
DRY CHAMPAGNE

$259 55 Liter Bottle

 

TOM’S BUGLES «
BBQ POTATO CHIPS
Reg. 89 NOW BUY 1,

GET 1 FREE

 

We Carry Domestic
and Imported Beer
and Wine

 

For special orders at
Give-Away Prices

See "Cr azy
Freddie”’
AT

The RED FRONT
GROCERY

 

 

 

two long touchdown drives,.one
of 80 yards and the other of 58
yards, to take a 14-7 lead into
the locker room. Cavalline
notched the first score on a 1-
yard plunge and freshman
Frank Surface scored from
three yards out with 1:15 left in
the half to complete the second
drive.

“Offensively we’ve been pret-
ty good as a group. We’ve allow-
ed our backs and quarterbacks
to perform,”’ said Fallon.

W&L and Maryville exchang-
ed lightning quick scores in the
third quarter. Pat O’Brien hit
Glenn Katz with a 47-yard bomb
to tie the score at 14-14 at 10:36
of the third quarter. Chris
Cavalline moved W&L back in
front 24 seconds later, when he
broke loose for a 63-yard touch-
down run. It was the longest
touchdown run of Cavalline’s
career.

W&L added an _ insurance
touchdown at 12:10 of the final
period on another one yard run

 

by Cavalline. Cavalline’s score
capped an 86 yard drive.

The insurance score proved
unnecessary as, for the second
week in a row, the W&L defense
blanked the opposition in the
fourth quarter. Senior Marty
Thomas had a strong game with
two interceptions and junior
John Cole, the teams’ leading
tackler, also intercepted a pass.

This Saturday at Wilson Field

sports

the Generals host traditional
rival Hampden-Sydney in an
ODAC game. The Tigers are 2-0
in the conference and 2-2-1
overall.

Hampden-Sydney relies on its
strong defense to win games.
“They’re the best defensive
team we’ll be facing,” noted
Fallon.

“If we lose this one, even if we
beat Bridgewater, we can lose

Generally Speaking

 

Cavalline paces Generals to 28-14 victory

the title. It isn’t just going to
happen. We've been letting
down mentally. We’ve got to be
smarter than we’ve been,”
Fallon said.

Starting quarterback Al
Paradise’s status remains ques-
tionable for Saturday’s game.
“Last week we thought he
might have been able to play.
It’s still a day to day thing,”
said Fallon.

Mid-terms looking good

by G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Sports Editor

As mid-terms close in rapidly
upon us, let’s take a look at the
mid-term grades for the various
Washington and Lee fall sports
teams.

Prior to yesterday’s soccer
match with Gettysburg, the
four teams had compiled an

Harriers win two,
host state meet Sat.

The Washington and Lee
cross-country team improved
their record to 6-1 with two vic-
tories Saturday in Washington,
D.C.

Junior Angus McBryde, the
Generals’ top runner so far
throughout the season, suffered
a mid-race tumble and had to
settle for a fourth-place finish.
However, sophomore Frank
Pittman picked up the slack by
placing third in a time of 26:18.

The Generals downed Catho-
lic 26-29 and American Univer-
sity 26-43. Senior Jon Kelafant
placed sixth, junior Paul Chap-
man seventh and freshman Bob
Glenn eleventh to round out the
Washington and Lee top five.

Fourteen seven-man cross-
country teams from around the
state will invade Lexington this
weekend for the third annual
Virginia Division II and III
Championships. The race,
which will be run on W&L’s 8000
meter course, will get under-
way at 11 a.m. Saturday.

Division II teams competing
will be Hampton Institute,
Liberty Baptist, Norfolk State,
Radford, Virginia Union and
Virginia State.

Division III teams in town
will be Bridgewater, Christo-
pher Newport, Eastern Menno-
nite, Hampden-Sydney, Lynch-
burg, Mary Washington and
Roanoke.

Webster says:

boom-er n. 1. one that booms

2. one that joins a rush of settlers
into a boom area 3. a transient
worker (as a bridge builder).

The Cockpit says:

BOOM-ER n. 1. sixteen ounces of
your favorite ice cold BEvE Rage
served in a long neck at a price on-
ly the Cockpit can offer.

 

~* FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15th *
— INTHE PIT —

* Happy Hour 3:30 - 6:00—unbelievably low

beer prices.

* Boomers ata special low price

* T.@asts’s tape show - your favorite music
- requests taken.
SEE YOU THERE

 

    
  
  
     

overall record of 27-7-1, a 79%
winning percentage.
One of the chief contributors

to that record was the water -

polo team, coached by Page
Remillard. With a 14-4 mark,
this year’s squad should do at
least as well as that of last year,
which finished 31-5 and fifth in
the NCAA Eastern Champion-
ships.

Although all-Americans Erik
Peterson and Rand McClain are
leading the way for the mermen
(sorry, coach!), as expected,
there have been several plea-
sant surprises for the few who

happen to wander by Twombly °

Pool.

Junior Matt Ravencraft, who
had really only seen limited ac-
tion in previous years, worked
hard over the summer at the
National Junior Development
Camp and the National Sports
Festival, and has scored 47
goals already this season.

And a freshman from Miami
by the name of Tim Stanford,
whom Remillard describes as
“‘coachable,” has scored 24

goals coming off the bench.
These new developments, cou-
pled with the performances of
Peterson and McClain, ought to
give the Generals a reasonable
shot at upsetting Slippery Rock
this weekend at the Bucknell
Tournament.

The Washington and Lee
cross-country team has compil-
ed a 6-1 record to this point in
the season and will be hosting
their biggest race of the year
this Saturday in the Virginia
State Division II and III cham-
pionships.

Led by Angus McBryde,
Frank Pittman and Jon Kela-
fant, the squad has shown that it
can compete with other top
teams, including a crucial vic-
tory over Roanoke College two
weekends ago.

And even when McBryde
doesn’t perform up to par, as in
Saturday’s race in Washington,
D.C., when McBryde suffered a
tumble mid-way through the
race, other runners can pick up
the slack. In that particular
race, it was Pittman who finish-

(continued on page 11)

Seniors lead soccer win

It was a day for seniors last
Saturday as three Washington
and Lee seniors led the soccer
team to a 3-1 victory over home-
standing Hampden-Sydney Col-
lege.

Brad Poorman, Tom Elder,
and Gary Clements scored one
goal apiece as Washington and
Lee upped their record to 4-1-1.
Poorman’s goal marked the
fifth consecutive game in which
he has scored.

Elder’s goal was assisted by

senior Tad Renner, and Cle-
ment’s score was aided by an

 

assist from Poorman.

Clements and defensive
standout John Templeton, a
freshman, were named players
of the game. Poorman now
leads the squad in scoring with
eight goals and an assist for 17
points.

Washington and Lee, which
now has a 2-1-1 Old Dominion
Athletic Conference record, out-
shot Hampden-Sydney 30-11.
Following a home match with
Gettysburg yesterday, the

Generals will travel to Messiah
College on Saturday.

 

 

Lexington Prescription Center

11 West Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Prescriptions, dental products,
men’s after shaves and colognes

and other toiletries.

 

 

 
 

goal by junior co-captain Tim Rock. (Phi photos by Bruce Potter)

Water polo destroys league competition

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
water polo Generals finished
another productive weekend as
they swept the field to take the
championship in the Southern
League’s Zone I competition,
upping their record to 14-4.

Finishing behind the Gener-
als were James Madison (3-1),
Lynchburg (2-2), George Wash-
ington (1-3), and VMI (0-4).

Coach Page Remillard was
relatively content with the
Generals’ weekend. ‘We’re
happy about our defense,”
stated Remillard, referring to
an area of concern from the
previous weekend.

noted, ‘We got plenty of aed d : Erik
W&L was not on defense all positive feedback and construc- weekend, and senior Eri
that much, however, and  tivecriticism from thefilms.” Peterson added nine. Peterson
Remillard still sees problems in The Generals did not have +8 the club’s leading scorer with
his team’s goaltending, as the anything remotely resembling ae a a McClain .
Generals’ netminders stopped a close contest all weekend, S47 for the Generals. Our baker, Rodney
: M On Friday, W&L travels to :
Generally Speaking Pennsylvania for the Bucknell Rogers, is now offer-

(continued from page 10)

ed third to pace the Generals.
This year’s Washington and
Lee football team seems to be
almost an exact carbon-copy of
last year’s squad. Like last
season, the team got off to a
slow start, squeaking by Emory
and Henry and Randolph-
Macon and losing to Centre.
However, despite injuries to

just 50% of their opponents’
shots.

Offensively, the Generals are,
according to Coach Remillard,
“an excited team.” The fourth-
year mentor continued, citing
an increased ‘‘diversity in
generating our attack.” Statis-
tics bear this team offense con-
cept out, with W&L having
seven or eight scorers in each of
the weekend’s contests.

The Generals also had the
luxury to do a little freelancing,
but given this freedom, Remil-
lard saw his team work their set
offense even better.

The use of two movie
cameras during the weekend
was also beneficial. Remillard

 

Before yesterday’s game, the
Generals boasted a 4-1-1 record,
and senior Brad Poorman was
the leading scorer with eight
goals and one assist. With a lit-
tle bit of luck, this could be a
spectacular season for W&L
soccer.

THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR

They opened Friday afternoon
with a 15-3 romp over neighbor
VMI. Things continued in much
the same manner on Saturday
as W&L closed out the competi-
tion with wins over Lynchburg
(15-1), JMU (16-6), and George
Washington (18-4).

Remillard cited a trio of the
team’s younger members as
key to the Generals’ perfor-
mance. Freshmen Tim Stan-
ford and Scott Johnstone along
with sophomore Bobby Pearson
turned in noteworthy perfor-
mances with solid mental
games and important offensive
output.

Junior Matt Ravencraft led
the squad with 17 goals for the

Tourney. The Generals will be
searching for revenge again as
they meet Navy and Bucknell
—both two-goal victors over
W&L earlier in the season —
and, of course, Slippery Rock,
the nemesis of the past two

seasons.
This weekend will be their

* Allentown, PA + New York City

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982, Page 11

Despite a noticeable lack of fan support, the Washington and Lee water polo team demolished all four opponents in Zone 1 play of the Southern League, including this

last meeting with the Generals
and their major competition
before the Eastern Champion-
ships in mid-November. Remil-
lard is trying to maintain that
statistical advantage from last
weekend as he enters what he
sees as an emotionally intense

 
   

Me

tournament where everybody
knows everybody else’s moves.

“It’s the kind of contest I look
forward to,” revealed a pensive
Remillard who will be hoping to
put all the pieces together for
another successful weekend.

 

 
  
    
  
 
   
   
   
 

  
 

Snack Bar, daily.

ing a variety of freshly
baked items in the

 

New

Menu Items

 

oh 6S es Zee

  

 

   

. iin sit a at Be eho baad a a
x agi CO RR Se Sr g age 4

oS

starting quarterback Al
Paradise and slotback Jerry
Thompson, the Generals appear
to have put it all together as
they defeated Maryville College

* A new, exciting whipped
beverage. Refeshing, Creamy,
Frothy, Frosty. A nutritious

EDUCATIONAL TESTING

 
   

+ Atlanta, GA « Philadelphia, PA
*Connecticut + Pittsburgh, PA
* Iilinois + Virginia

* Long Island, NY » Washington, DC

28-14 last weekend in Ten- PREPARATION COURSE New Jersey + Westchester, NY snack, appropriate for active
nessee.
Their offense appears tohave MEJ]| PREPARE NOW FOR DECEMBER 4 EXAM people.

taken over the game, as they
did towards the end of last
season in big wins over Bridge-
water (30-0) and Georgetown
(43-15).

The Generals will host
Hampden-Sydney in a battle for
first place in the ODAC Satur-
day on Wilson Field. Although
the Tigers have only scored 35
points in five games, their
defense had been stingy before
a 48-0 loss to Division III power
West Georgia last weekend.

NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-hr. courses: Live lectures - Simulated exam
conditions Special home-study materials Tape library - Up-to-date
course materials-Group & individual counseling

CUS Amel TCL) eae

 

ee eee.
ORs. ksi
ee

For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering the
LSAT exam and the Law School admission process call now or write:

rou ence (800) 223-2618

The National Center for Educational Testing
1271 Ave. of the Americas, Suite 777
New York, N.Y. 10020

GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or

Contact locally:
C. Jay Robbins
(703) 463-6687

Available in: orange
(great for breakfast),

 

 

 

 

 

Talk around the soccer team ;
is the possibility of their making take the next course FREE. ite
the national playoffs this strawberry.

season.

 

 
Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1982

PALMS opera house |
TUESDA Y NITE! pion sania Ses

All You Can Eat ** a .99 Superb Mexican Food — Give It A Try!!

Wed.-13—BLUES EXPRESS

TONITE sy PoPUuLAR REQUEST
9.] (0) ist Time At Opera House

Thurs.-l4—MOVIF.— 1:30 &7:00 P.M.
DR. ZHIVAGO

OMAR SHARIF & JULIE CHRISTIE

Fri.—KRAKAJAX

& OPERA HOUSE’S MOST POPULAR
GROUP EVER!!

ele Last Appearance

9:30-1:30 This Fall

Great Show Band
ave

Movie — MALTESE FALCON
Bogie Again
1:30 & 3:15

A fe yh a
Closed Monday

HAPPY HOUR

*

 

Tues. - Fri.
3-6

lat
eT

 

g
“ON THE CORNER!! NELSON & JEFFERSON
 

VOLUME 82

NUMBER7

  

iz CUM Ae

JARARY

 

WASHINGTON & bet UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON WAS 2AReo
f
NET 99 13: 2 ;
ULI £4 8 NON PROFIT ORG. \/- ¥

Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia October 21, 1982

U.S. POSTAGE 2
PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Powell speaks
at Law School

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Supreme Court Justice Lewis
F. Powell Jr., speaking Monday
at the Washington and Lee Law
School, denied recent reports of
dissension among the justices
and acknowledged that the
Court is facing a considerable
overload of cases.

Associate Justice Powell, a
graduate of both W&L and the
W&L Law School, addressed a
standing-room-only crowd of
law students in the Moot Court-

~ room of Lewis Hall. In the mor-

ning, he met with a law class
and in the afternoon gave a
short address and then took a
broad range of questions from
the students. Before he began
the question-and-answer ses-
sion, he told the students he’d
feel free to ‘‘take the fifth”’ if he
felt it necessary.

Responding to press accounts
of discord among the members
of the Court, Powell said that
although there is friction, no
deep rift exists. Some ot the
reports, he said, gave the im-

pression that they were
“feuding and fighting with each
other all the time.”’

Some difference of opinion, he
says, is inevitable. “Some of

these cases,’ he told the
students, “‘generate very strong
feelings.” In an_ interview

following his speech, he added,
“There is disagreement, of
course, and that’s proper. The

system ought to work that
way.”

He put it into perspective for
the students by saying, ‘‘We are
nine lawyers, and it’s hard to
get two layers to agree on
anything, let alone nine.”’
They’re all friends, though,
“despite what the media says.”

Powell joined the Court in
1971 as the only Nixon-
appointed Democrat on the high
bench. At the time, he said, he
was afraid that ‘“‘the brothers
were not always friendly.’’
Those fears have been allayed,
though. There is ‘‘no lack of
civility,” he said.

This civility extends to the
most recent appointee, Sandra
Day O’Connor. Although he
“had never heard of her before
she was nominated,” Powell
said she was an “‘ideal’’ and
“outstandingly able choice.”’
Powell pointed out to the
amusement of the audience
that, as the junior justice, the
duties of doorkeeper and cof-
feemaker for private sessions
fall to her.

‘“‘She’s another very
stimulating colleague,”’ he add-
ed.

A recurring problem for the
Court is its overcrowded docket
and backlog of cases. Indeed,
last year the Court filled its
docket only three months into
the term, prompting Chief

(continued on page 8)

 

 

 

At Tuesday night’s dress rehearsal, the costumes reflect the 16th
century setting of “A Man for All Seasons.”’ (Phi photo by David

Sprunt)

“A Man for All Seasons”

opens this weekend

The Washington and Lee
University Theatre production
of Robert Bolt’s ‘‘A Man for All
Seasons”’ begins this Saturday,
Oct. 23, at the \ Troubadour
Theatre on the corner of Main
and Henry Streets in Lexington.

The play, directed by Albert
C. Gordon, professor of fine arts
.at W&L, will be presented on
‘Oct. 23 and 24, and again Oct. 27
through Oct. 30.

Doors open at 7:30 p.m. each

evening with the curtain at 8
p.m.

Reservations are required
and may be made by calling the
box office at 463-9111, Ext. 371,
or 463-9353 from 10 a.m. to 3
p.m. Monday through Friday.

Tickets are $3 for  non-
Washington and Lee students
and $4 for adults. Members of
the Washington and Lee com-
munity are admitted without
charge.

 

 

IFC promises $7,500 for Contact

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

By a margin of 14 to 2, the In-
terfraternity Council voted
Tuesday night to offer Contact
$7,500, as it had last year.

Although Contact Co-
chairman Mike Skardon had re-
quested $8,500 before the vote
was taken, after the meeting co-
chairman Mike Drinkwater
said he was appreciative.

Contact is a program started
by the IFC, which brings
speakers to W&L.

Treasurer Emery Ellanger
pointed out that several houses
were already behind in their
monthly dues,” and that it
would not be possible to raise
the pledge to over $7,500.

President Mason Ellerbe said
that the IFC reserve fund was
empty.

  

At Tuesday’s IFC meeting: Bennett Ross, Steve Jones, Pat
Mooney and Mason Ellerbe. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

$7,500 is $1000 more than they
were expecting to get,
anyway,’’ remarked Delta Tau
Delta President Tony Zaccagni-
ni.

The meeting also focused on
how the program would be
financed in the future.

Skardon told the IFC that he
believes the university will be

 

willing to contribute in the
future. But an administrator
told Skardon that ‘‘because the
school operates like a corpora-
tion,’ Contact could not be
figured into the budget for fund-
ing before the end of this year.

Ellerbe requested that in the
spring, Contact representatives

should come to the IFC instead
of the Executive Committee
when they want to discuss
future financial support from
the IFC.
Correction

In the Oct. 7 Ring-tum Phi, it
was reported that Sigma Chi
was placed on Social Probation
by the IFC. Omitted from the
story were the facts that:

---Kappa Alpha was also fined
$150 and given two weeks proba-
tion for having a band on a
weeknight, and

--Phi Gamma Delta was
given a total of five weeks social
probation for having a band on
a weeknight, and for a distur-
bance at the Sigma Phi Epsilon
house last spring which resulted
in two car windows being bro-
ken with a beer keg and a third
car being damaged.

Tuition
up 1.4%

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi Staff Writer

Tuition at Washington and
Lee will go up by 7.4 percent .
next year.

The Board of Trustees voted
to raise the tuition fee from
$5,400 to 5,800 during its fall
meeting held in Philadelphia
last week.

Although no official an-
nouncement by the Board has
been made concerning the tui-
tion increase, the increase was
confirmed by university ad-
ministrators.

In addition to the tuition in-
crease, several other university
fees were raised.

The cost of a meal plan for
one year in Evans Dining Hall
was increased by 6.7 percent
from $1,500 to $1,600. The
average room rental fee was in-
creased by seven percent from
$1,046 to $1,119. The Board also
authorized an increase in the
student activities fee of about
11.5 percent, raising the ‘‘stu-
dent tax”’ to $70 from $60.

Altogether this is an increase
of more than seven percent in
university charges for tuition,
rooms, food and student ac-
tivities, with the total rising to
$8,589 from $8,006 this year.

This year’s increase follows
last year’s jump of 12.5 percent.
Tuition in 1981-82 was $4,800,
and rose to $5,400 for 1982-83.

The Board discussed increas-
ing financial aid for students to
offset the increase in tuition. An
increase in aid would balance
against the increase in tuition to
determine students’ share in
paying the cost of education at
W&L.

Alumni gifts, endowments
and other sources pay for the
majority of educational costs
which are not covered by tuition
and student fees.

A recently announced tuition
increase at the University of
Virginia for next year will not
be offset by a comparable in-
crease in student financial aid,
according to Monday’s Roanoke
Times. The result will be an in-
crease in the student’s share of
the total educational cost
burden from 30 percent in
1981-82 to 39 percent next year.

The question of how the stu-
dents’ share in paying the cost
of an education at W&L will
change as a result of the tuition
increase remains open pending
official word from the universi-
ty concerning the Board’s ac-
tions on financial aid.
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982

Opinion

 

 

We can turn around

alcohol grudge-match

By TODD SMITH
Phi Editor in Chief

“Pavilion parties as we know them are dead.”

So says someone privy to a meeting of university administrators
and Lexington officials in the wake of the raid on Chi Psi’s pavilion
party, at which 30 kegs were confiscated and six students were
charged with criminal offenses. The Alcoholic Beverage Commis-
sion ordered the raid because, it is charged, Chi Psi did not get the
necessary licenses for an open party, and did not take necessary
precautions to keep the party closed.

Commonwealth’s attorney John Read said at this meeting that he
was directing the local police to arrest anyone drinking in public,
starting immediately.

What???

Imagine the jail filling up this weekend with parents and women
from neighboring colleges as Read’s crusade unilaterally erases
minks’ bad habits and cleans up this collegiate hub of scum and
villainy.

Should we close ranks against this surprise attack?

If Read thinks he can make a dent in W&L’s drinking habits he is
mistaken. His efforts are puny. And worse, his efforts are counter-
productive.

He is calling a grudge-match. Now it is us against them. But why
must it be so? Why can’t we cooperate? His intentions are very
good, it seems. He wants to circumvent the party mentality that
people now connect with the recent deaths of students from VMI,
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College and the University of Virginia.
Don’t we all want that?

It’s not too late to call a halt to escalating grudges and to work out
differences with mutual respect. The burden is on the students of
W&L, and no one else. As one could see at a recent intercollegiate
conference in Lynchburg, there is no school around that trusts the
student body as much as W&L does. Roanoke College, for example,
has complete control of all fraternity social functions.

And so, the burden is on Bennett Ross, Morgan Griffith, and all
the Executive Committee. The burden is on Mason Ellerbe, Steve
Jones and every IFC member. The burden is on this newspaper and
every single student. We must regulate ourselves, and defend the
privilege to do so.

Letter: Don’t blame ABC

Editor:

This letter is in reply to a comment by Executive Committee
representative John Vlahoplus, made at the Oct. 11 meeting. As
reported by the Phi, Vlahoplus stated, in regards to the Chi Psi par-
ty, ‘“The police could come to almost any party and nuke us.”’ In ad-
dition, this letter addresses Viahoplus’s summation of the E.C.’s
stand on the issue: ‘‘It was inconsistent cases such as this and
others that prompted the E.C.’s vote of confidence for those involv-
ed with the (Chi Psi) party raided Friday.”

Regardless of whether Chi Psi is innocent or guilty of the
charges, it is narrow-minded to state that they should not have been
arrested because the party the week before was allowed to go on.
Comparing Chi Psi’s party to the sophomore party is similar to
comparing a murder suspect to an unsolved crime. Just because
there are no suspects in the latter case, does this justify releasing
the murder suspect without a trial? It does not. Possibly, the
sophomore party was in violation of the law, but the ABC officials
were busy elsewhere. The best form of law enforcement would be to
have a police officer on every corner, and in every house. This is
not feasible, by any stretch of the imagination. If Chi Psi is guilty of
the infraction(s), what is going to be Vlahoplus’s defense? I can see
it now: ‘‘Well, they (Chi Psi) should not be charged, because
previous parties have escaped the arm of the law.’’ I seriously
doubt this is the proper approach. The case should be analyzed
acoording to its own merits, not by another’s.

It is sad to realize that one of our senior class representatives,
and the whole EC body, is ignorant of the fact that the ABC officials
are trying to accomplish their task. Instead of condemning their ef-
forts, the EC should vote to support the law. This could possibly
help to avert tragic endings, such as the VMI accident several
weeks ago. I was there with the Rescue Squad, and it is easy enough
to change the scenario to Route 251, or any road back from a W&L
party, and friendly faces from the Colonnade. The arrests of the six
individuals is a step in the right direction toward enforcement of
the alcoholic laws. Arrest or death can change one’s life, but action
by the ABC officials may have prevented recurrences that are un-
necessary.

Sincerely yours,
David W. Stevens Jr. ’83

REY
—Yure A
_— waar #80U THE WOR

  

ai"

o,f

N

Letters

  
 
    

 

FOCUS offers endless benefits

Editor:

For those students who don’t
know, the goal of FOCUS, The
Interdisciplinary Symposium,
is to encourage independent
thinking as a supplement to the
educational process.

| Se

Need a
loan? Bad?

Editor:

The Student Emergency Loan
Committee is administered by
students. Its loans are small
and interest-free, and for a
maximum of thirty days. Loans
are granted only in cases of

substantial personal financial .

hardship.

A student who wishes to apply
for a loan should contact a
member, and an_ informal
meeting will be arranged with
the applicant and the entire
committee, and the terms will
be set by the committee through
a promissory note.

Frank Eppes
(463-2563)

Leighton Stradtman

Study |
in Japan

Editor :

Please print the following in
the next issue of the Ring-tum
Phi:

“Your attention is drawn to
Washington and Lee’s 1983
spring program in Japan. This
program was _ inadvertently
omitted from the flyers announ-
cing the university’s other
study abroad programs. In-
terested students should con-
tact Professor Minor Rogers in
Newcomb 32A by November 1.”’
S.J. Williams, Jr., Chairman
Foreign Study Committee

In other words, FOCUS wants
to be a clearing house for the
theories of standouts. In so do-
ing, we, the FOCUS Committee,
hope to spark controversy,
debate and enliven the intellec-
tual climate on campus.

In pursuance of this goal,

FOCUS publishes a journal of
interdisciplinary thought entitl-
ed Excelsior. In this journal, we
ask, even beg, for the theories
and ideas of students on any
topic. It is this interdisciplinary
approach which distinguishes
us from other university
publications such as Ariel or the
W&L Polical Review.
_ In addition, FOCUS hopes to
present a quadrennial sym-
posium on a topic of an inter-
disciplinary nature. The lec-
tures, debates, seminars and
papers presented therein would
be a kind of living clearing
house for the theories of
students, as opposed to the
printed clearing house we offer
in the Excelsior.

This is, of course, a capsuliz-

ed version of what FOCUS is.
There is much more to be said
about the endless benefits this
group can offer to students and
the university as a whole. Any
freshman, sophomore or junior
who would like to know more
about how joining this commit-
tee can benefit them are en-
couraged to call Chris Bouquet
at 463-9524 or Bill Archer at
463-9708. We also ask students to
be attentive to our posters on
campus — about times of
meetings and deadlines for Ex-
celsior. As we have only seniors
on the committee this year, our
primary goal is recruitment.
We will publish the Excelsior
this year and hope to put on a
mini-symposium, as a taste of
what could be in 1986. This com-
mittee was officially labeled a
“good idea’ by the University
Council in 1981. We are asking
for the interest and support of
the W&L community so that this
good idea will bear fruition.

The FOCUS Committee

Ring-tum Phi

P.O. Box 899, Lexington, Va. 24450

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 

I oa a a PN eed wate 0 0k CEA Ne eee be hn Ue Es cb eR EWS Todd Smith
BIROEE MAMAGET ooo cei sgticdeccccccecccceeescsctostorrsvessetcocens Steve Perry
Managing Editor ............ Deets Ce ey ee bwik cscs ceueenes einen Evans Attwell
errr ree re eee Pe eee rece John Cleghorn
MNT acai chee eean cadence FOUN CU ere OLV Ts re CULE G. Bruce Potter
PE Es GR 0a he ene eT B. Scott Tilley
TORE PIRI AIIOE oon hc ie URN cece secrcccceedscqucecegeabense David Sprunt
PROLORTODROTE ccc ceiscvovcccnceceeoecesencenecesseecoucs Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Jeffery Lis, Robert Miller
og, Berries eer eV ery haber te Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

Norma Ann Claxton, Barry Flemming, John Harrison
Andrew Hoppes, Nelson Patterson, Bill Roberts
Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler, Mike Stachura

Adivertising MONAGET oo... icc c cece ccccccccscctccccvveccsereseesenes Tom O’Brien
MEDORA Fist Fed ii ieib hivecsesiiaedtiene Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Houston, Tim Mulreany, Jim Wood
COPOUIAEIE MAUOEEE 0 ibis Cad un cr encedgusys Hess ebepieeean ry corenseans Jim Wood
 

 

Speeches, reports planned
for 28th Parents’ Weekend

in the weekend during which the
families of W&L students are
given an opportunity to meet
with professors, attend classes,

W&L News Office
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity will observe its 28th annual
Parents’ Weekend this Friday,

Saturday and Sunday. take part in department ac-
More than 1,200 parents and __ tivities, and participate in a
guests are expected to take part | number of other events.

Calendar

Friday, Oct. 22

 

Parents’ Weekend

Meeting: Virginia Chapter of Special Libraries Association. Moot
Court room, Lewis Hall.

Water Polo: Southern League Tourney, Twombly Pool.

10 a.m.-5 p.m. — Parents’ Weekend Registration, University
Center

8 a.m.-Noon — ROTC Open House

9a.m.-5 p.m. — Reeves Center tours on the hour and haif hour. Also
University Library Open House.

2 p.m.-4 p.m. — Language Laboratory Open House, Tucker Hall.
Also Broadcast Facilities Open House, Reid Hall.

5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: Radiation Effect on DNA,” Ronald
R. Magee, ’84 ‘“‘Catechol Amine Neurotransmitters,’’ Andrew W.
Asimos, ’84. Howe 401, preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe, 402.

8 p.m. — Concert Parents Weekend Concert, presented by the W&L
Glee Club and Brass & Percussion Ensemble. Lee Chapel.

8p.m. - 10 p.m. — Observatory Open House, Howe Hall roof.

9p.m. — Faculty-Parent Reception, Evans Dining Hall.

Saturday, Oct. 23
Parents’ Weekend
Water Polo: Southern League Tourney, Twombly Pool.
8:30 a.m. — GMAT. Newcomb Hall.
9:30 a.m. — Parents’ seminars
10 a.m. — Soccer; Generals vs. Radford. Wilson Field
11:30 a.m. — Cross Country Generals vs. Bridgewater and West Va.
Tech.
11:30 a.m. — President Robert E. R. Huntley’s Report to Parents,
Lee Chapel.
1:30 p.m. — Football Generals vs. Sewanee. Wilson Field
8 p.m. — Play ‘‘A Man For All Seasons.’’ Troubadour Theatre. For
reservations call 463-9111, ext. 371.

Sunday Oct. 24
Parents’ Weekend
Water Polo: Southern League Tourney. Twombly Pool.
8 p.m. — Play: ‘‘A Man For All Seasons.’’ Troubadour Theatre.

Monday, Oct. 25 —
Registration for Fall Term.
Freshmen mid-term reports due.

Tuesday, Oct. 26
Registration for Winter Term.

Wednesday, Oct. 27
Registration For Winter Term.
8 p.m. — Play ‘‘A Man For All Seasons.” Troubadour Theatre.
Away Athletic Event: Soccer: V.M.I. (3:30 p.m.).

Os Main
Saudivich
§ Oppe 703-463-2595

BIG DELICIOUS
DELI SANDWICHES

IMPORTED CHEESES

DELI MEATS PARTY PLATTERS
OLD MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

 

 

Make Thanksgiving
and Christmas
Reservations Now

 

 

 

 

 

 

Apple Annie’s
FURNITURE, JEWELRY,
GLASSWARE, POTTERY
RECORDS, TOYS AND
MORE... Vintage Goods.

207 S. Main St.

 

 

 

BUY EARLY — SAVE!
# Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

On Friday, Oct. 22, open
houses are scheduled at various
university departments, _in-
cluding the university library,
the Military Science Building,
the language laboratory, the
journalism department’s radio
and television studios, the
observatory on the roof of Howe
Hall, and the recently opened
Reeves Center for Research
and Exhibition of Porcelain and
Paintings. The chemistry
department’s weekly seminar
will be open to parents Friday.

The music department at
W&L will present a concert in
Lee Chapel at 8 p.m. Friday
with the W&L Glee Club and
Brass and Percussion Enseble.
That will be followed by a

_ reception for parents at the

Evans Dining Hall.

On Saturday morning,
seminars will be conducted by
faculty, administration, and
student representatives on
topics of interest to the parents.
Following the seminar, W&L
President Robert E.R. Huntley
will deliver the traditional
“Report to the Parents’ at
11:30a.m. in Lee Chapel.

Concert in

Two Washington and Lee
University musical groups —
the Brass and Percussion
Ensemble and the W&L Glee
Club — will present a Parents’
Weekend Concert at 8 p.m. on
Friday, October 22, in Lee
Chapel.

Although the concert is being
presented in conjuction with the
university’s weekend activities
for parents and guests of W&L
students, the public is invited to
attend. Admission is free.

The Brass and Percussion
Ensemble, directed by Robert
Stewart, will perform first. In-
cluded in the Ensemble’s pro-
gram will be Don Ellis’ ‘“‘The
Blues,” featuring a trumpet
solo by junior James Davis; a

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

 

WINTER SKI TRIPS
Call Now

CALL
463-7174

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982, Page 3

 

 

Aleohol Awareness
to educate students

Governor Robb will soon an-
nounce Nov. 1-7 as ‘‘Alcohol
Awareness Week”’ for the state
of Virginia. College campuses
across the state, including
W&L, the University of
Virginia, Sweet Briar College
and Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College, among others, will
observe the week with various
programs designed to make
students more knowledgeable
about drinking.

Some Virginia campuses,
other than those noted above,
have recently experienced in-
creasing restrictions on the use
and advertisement of alcohol in
attempts to regulate student
social life.

“That’s not the route at
W&L,”” Dean of Freshman
Robert Huntley said. ‘‘Nobody’s

sending Elliott Ness around to -

shoot holes in the fraternities
beer barrels on Wednesday
night or anything like that.”
The student Executive Com-
mittee leads off the week’s ac-
tivities with a demonstration of
the university’s new ‘‘Breath-
alyzer,’’ the gift of alumnus An-
drew Bauer. The controlled

test, beginning at approximate-
ly 4 p.m. Monday, with reflex
testing beginning in early even-
ing, will include W&L students,
VMI Cadets and, according to
plans, a W&L faculty member
and a W&L administrator.

Other activities during the
week will include demonstra-
tions of home-brewing, with
tasting privileges and recipes
available, a non-alcoholic
drinks demonstration and a
contest in which students at-
tempt to identify various
brands of beer.

One evening will feature an
alcohol quiz program - (the
‘Punch Bowl’’) pitting the Col-
lege Republicans against the
Young Democrats, with the
winner representing W&L at the
state playoffs at the University
of Virginia next spring.

The emphasis of the entire
week will be on education or, as
Huntley noted, ‘‘How to be hap-
py tonight — and tomorrow
too!”’

Next week’s Phi will carry
the complete schedule of the en-
tire week’s program.

 

 

chapel tomorrow

percussion quartet performing
Philip Faini’s ‘‘Bravura’’;
“Fanfare” by Paul Dukas;
‘“Spectrums”’ by Paul Shahan;
“Tower Music’ by Karol
Rathaus; and, ‘‘Stop! The Red
Light’s On,”’ a big band swing
number from the library of
Gene Krupa.

The 51-member W&L Glee
Club, directed by Gordon P.
Spice, will perform Baroque
double chorus music by Jacob
Handl; portions of a mass by
Schubert accompanied by brass
quartet and timpani; and, a

Slovak folk chorus by Dvorak,
featuring four-hand piano ac-

companiment. In addition, the
Glee Club’s' small chorus,
Southern Comfort, will present

special selections, including
spirituals and sea chanteys.

By tradition, the concert will
conclude with the W&L Glee
Club’s version of the ‘“W&L
Swing.”

The Parents’ Weekend Con-

cert will be the first of the
season for both the Brass and

Percussion Ensemble and the
W&L Glee Club.

The Ensemble’s future
engagements include a perfor-
mance by the Quintet on Oc-
tober 31 at the Lutheran Church
of the Good Shepherd in Lex-
ington, a January concert tour
in the Washington, D.C., area,
and the annual winter tour to
Florida in February.

0 <6 < © - © <I © - © <6 ee 9 <6 2 < @

WHITE FRONT SUPERMARKET;

167 S. Main St,

463-3106

STOP BY THIS WEEKEND
for specials on Star-Kist Tuna,
Strohs Beer, Coke, Pepsi, White

Bananas, Ground Beef, etc...

Also, talk to your parents
about setting up a charge
account which can be sent
directly to them to help with all
your food needs. -

OA 2 ERE O ER 9 aS O YT © TR @ -REIK a & ETS @ UE 6 aE ¢

|
Cloud, Campbell’s Soups,
|
|
|

(REREAD (PSRs RF SEC SO . a 2
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982

ATHLETIC
ATTIC

Celebration
Sale

Thursday-Friday & Saturday

Grandest Sale
E-V-E-R !!!!
— SHOES —

'(LADIES’)

Brooks Supervillanova-Reg. $32.95
Nike Lady Yankee-Reg. $34.95 NOW $27.95
Nike Lady Roadrunner-Reg. $29.95 NOW $23.95
Nike Lady Blazer Basketball-Reg. $23.95NOW $16.00

(MENS)
Converse All-Star Leather-Reg. $44.95... NOW $38.95
Nike Bruin Leather-Reg. $38.95 NOW $32.95
Le Cog Ashe Team Tennis-Reg. $38.95 .. NOW $32.95

Brooks Astro-Reg. $29.95 NOW $22.00

Converse Phaeton
Running Shoe-Reg. $49.95

 

 

NOW $26.95

NOW $40.00

— OTHER ITEMS —

Thermal Sweatshirts-Reg. $19.95 NOW $14.00
Ladies’ Hang Ten Velour Warm-up NOW $38.95
Ladies’ Nylon Running Shorts & Singlets... . 12 price
All Men’s Warm-up, Wind & Rain Suits

All Tennis Racquets

Athletic Bags

— PORCH SALE —

Miscellaneous Shoes Below Cost

Barrel of Running Shorts-Reg. $10.95 .... NOW $6.00
$5 Rack-includes T-shirts, Lacoste Style Shirts,
Coaches Shorts, etc.

Register for *50.00 Gif Certificate
To Be Given Away!!
We Are Celebrating Our 2nd Successful Year
With You—Our Customers!!

 

 

 

Students of all nations unite

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity has established an Interna-
tional House on its campus this
year.

Located directly across from
the main campus at 218 West
Washington Street in Lexing-
ton, the International House is
designed as a residence for both
foreign and American students
at W&L and is also closely
aligned with the activities of the
university’s International Club.

“Our long-range goal is to
create ‘a truly international
community,” explained Seng
Kah (Henry) Baey, a W&L
senior from the Republic of
Singapore.

Baey has been a guiding force
behind the International House
concept, first approaching the
university administration with
the idea two years ago.

“Professor (Minor) Rogers
(associate professor of religion)
had mentioned the idea of an In-
ternational House,” said Baey.
“The idea struck me as one that
could be extremely good for us
totry.”

Baey is one of five W&L
students — two of whom are
from foreign countries — who
are residing at the International
House this year.

“T think it is particularly im-
portant to emphasize that the
idea is not to segregate foreign
students from the rest of the
university community. It is

quite the opposite,”’ said Baey.
“The foreign students who have
come to Washington and Lee,
many of them as part of ex-
change programs, are most in-
terested in becoming active in
all phases of the university’s
life.”’

But Baey hopes that the Inter-
national House will eventually
become a place where students,
faculty and members of the
Lexington community will
gather to learn about and dis-
cuss different cultures.

‘“‘We had been hopeful that we
could arrange a building that
would accomodate about a
dozen or so residents instead of
the five we have this year,”
Baey said. “But that may be
possible in the future.

“Even so, the International
House will provide a location
for the members of the Interna-

* tional Club to meet informally

and to hold our gatherings.

“The presence of Interna-
tional House ought to be a
positive force for the club. Our
goal in the International Club is
to provide educational pro-
grams that help promote better
understanding of foreign cul-
tures. These will take a variety
of forms, from social gather-
ings to speaker forums.”

Among the programs that the
International Club at W&L is
planning is a series of special
international nights that will be
devoted to a particular part of

 

the Placement Office.

WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF LAW

Campus visit by Professor Jim Bond on Oc-
tober 28, 1982, from 1:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. in

 

 

the world.

“‘We have talked of having a
European night and an Asian
night at the International
House,”’ said Baey. ‘“‘We would
have food from that area of the
world and discussions or
demonstrations representing
some aspect of the culture.

“We also plan to create a
speakers’ bureau through
which the exchange and foreign
students at W&L would make
themselves available to area
schools and civic groups to
discuss their respective coun-
tries and cultures. We have
already had a talk featuring a
foreign diplomat. We will also
bring some cultural groups to
the campus and will have our
second International Day.”’

H. Robert Huntley, associate
dean of students at Washington
and Lee and adviser to the In-
ternational Club, said the
establishment of International
House represents an important
element in the university’s con-
tinuing efforts to create a
heterogeneity in the student

ly.

“I think one could argue that
the active recruitment and pre-
sence of foreign students at
Washington and Lee is a natural
extension of General Lee’s con-
cern that this be a place where
young men of different geogra-
phical backgrounds and
ideologies could study together
in harmony and unity,” said
Huntley. “If this made good
sense for the last half of the 19th
century, it makes at least as
much sense for the world of the
20th century.”’

(This story was prepared by the
W&L News Office, under the
direction of Jeff Hanna.)

 

 

 

WELCOME PARENTS
RI
8 Xe.

" p

$
TRAVEL
prvien lve.
No Charge For Any Services!
For all your travel arrangements; call
Lexington’s professional travel agency

19 SOUTA MATIN’ *

 

 

 

 

 

 

“LEXINGTON, VA." ‘ahaa’ 6's 646922197 IP

  

The Cockpit

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

FRI.

 

The COCKPIT

Wants To Be
Your “Place” For Lunch.

Specials

Homemade Vegetable Soup and
and Egg Salad Sandwich

Soup ’n Sandwich
COCKPIT’S Famous Homemade CHILI . . 95* bowl
BBQ Sandwich and
Side of Slaw

Chef Dunn’s Homemade Soup and
Tossed Salad

Quick - Courteous Service
Try us!

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982, Page 5

 

 

Executive Committee approves budget

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

At its regular Monday night
meeting, the Executive Com-
mittee approved the 1982-83
budget. Unlike last year, there
was no discussion and the
amounts allocated last week re-
mained unchanged. President
Bennett Ross said that clubs
should get their money this
week.

Lee Feldman of the Student
Telephone Union came before
the Committee to discuss the
possibility of STU being incor-
porated. Feldman stated that
the disadvantages would in-
clude the chartering fees and
the fee which would be paid to
Thomas C. Spencer for drawing
up their incorporation papers.

The total cost would be approx-
imately $350. Written into the
charter would be a_ section
detailing the amount of money
to be returned to the EC.

Feldman referred to this as
the ‘‘Magic Formula.”’

Senior Rep. John Vlahoplus
was against letting STU deter-
mine the ‘magic formula.”
“It’s kind of like letting the wolf
decide how many sheep to give
back.”

‘‘Well, the EC would have
ultimate power to say ‘bye-bye
to STU. It would appoint the
directors and the president of
the EC would serve as STU
president but wouldn’t have a
vote,’’ Feldman responded.

Law Rep. Ken. Terwilleger
asked about the corporate in-

come tax and Feldman replied,
“Spencer said we could work it
out to where our income is zero
by paying the EC supervisory
fees.” Terwilleger commented
that it could probably be work-
ed out so that law students and
faculty could draw up the incor-
poration papers, saving the ex-
pense of Spencer.

Once again the problem of
White Book revisions was dis-
cussed. The discussion this
week revolved around when
revisions should be made, as op-
_ to what should be chang-

“The real problem with the
procedure of a public honor
hearing is that it is so vague. It
can be run at the whim of the
SBA chairman. We would be

Over 200 vote in Mock Election

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

“Stay the course,’’ seemed to
be the sentiment on campus last
Thursday as students voted in a
Mock Election sponsored by the
Washington and Lee Political
Review.
~ “T think the result reflects the
conservative climate at W&L,”
said Jim Falk, editor of the
Review and chairman of the
Mock Election. The Republi-
cans were big winners in both
the Senate and the sixth Con-
gressional district races. Paul
Trible score a 79 to 21 percen-
tage victory over Richard
Davis in the Senate contest, and
Kevin Miller beat Jim Olin by 74
percent to 26 percent in the
House vote. ‘

Falk says the turnout was
very good. ‘‘In the past, we’ve
had, at most, 100. This time, it
was 200-250, which was ex-
cellent.”

‘There is a real climate of
political support for all of the
candidates,’ he said. ‘‘That’s
why The Political Review spon-
sored it. It was unbiased — we
gave equal attention to all the
candidates. Both clubs — the
College Republicans and Young
Democrats — had their para-
phernalia out.’”’

Senate candidate Trible had
planned to appear the afternoon
of the Mock Election at a rally
sponsored by the College Re-
publicans. It was scheduled to
held in front of McCormick
Hall, and Mock Election results
were to be announced at that
time. However, Trible had a
last minute change in plans,
and flew back to his campaign
headquarters in Richmond.

There he hastily called a
press conference in which he at-
tacked Davis for ‘‘utter distor-
tions, half-truths and lies’
about Trible’s voting record in
the House, where he is the first
district representative.
Reporters present said Trible
was ‘‘visibly angry.”

Trible’s tirade was in re-

 
 

sponse to a statement of the
previous day, when Davis call-
ed Trible ‘‘a press release con-
gressman” and ridiculed his
foreign trips to ‘‘Switzerland,
Fiji, Italy and the Britsh West
Indies.”’

Although different polls yield
slightly varying results, both
races are considered at this
point to be tossups, and none of
the four candidates can claim
favorite or underdog status.

A statewide poll relased two
weeks ago by the Richmond
Times-Dispatch called the
Senate race ‘‘too close to call.”’
Of those surveyed, 34 percent
favored Trible, 30 percent sup-
ported Davis, and 35 percent
were undecided. When voters
who were undecided but leaning
toward a particular candidate
were added to the totals, Trible

had 38 percent and Davis gar-
nered 34 percent.

The poll had a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.5 percent
which means that Trible could
have been ahead by as much as
12 points, or that Davis could
have been ahead by up to 4
points.

A poll last week by the
Associated Press and WRC-TV
also showed Trible and Davis in
a dead heat. Davis had 41 per-
cent and Trible received 39 per-
cent, ‘‘a statistically insignifi-
cant margin in a pre-election
poll.”’ One in five of those polled
was still undecided, and neither
candidate had overwhelming
strength of support. Forty-nine
percent of Trible’s backers said
they were strong supporters,
compared to 54 percent of Davis
supporters.

Homemade Ice Cream

Welcome Parents

This weekend only.

Try a Four Flavor Sampler — only

$1.65

[CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Fri. 10-5; Sat. 10-4
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355 i

106 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Virginia
703-463-6055

      
 
   
 

Made Daily

 
 
   
     
   

remiss not to fix the problems,”
Viahoplus said.

Because there has been little
interest from the students, and
according to Junior Rep. Ted
McQuiston, ‘“‘that if the revi-
sions were done now people
might think we’re covering our
tracks,” the EC decided to
begin to make the necessary
revisions in January.

Barry Russell appeared be-
fore the EC to request that
something be done about the

conditions and use of the weight
room. Senior Rep. Pete Baum-
gaertner concurred, saying that
the equipment was becoming
unsafe. The Committee decided
to refer the matter to the
University Athletic Committee.

Baumgaertner announced
that the faculty EC has propos-
ed Saturday classes for the first
week of Winter Term. This
would allow students to take
Monday, Jan. 3, as part of the
Christmas Holiday.

 

 

 

 

cod
a
a
nl
os
mo

 

uccdays

IN

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

savuz
SAND

October 26

"It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 

Wednesday Night Buffet

PURE MM aS LL

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, ~~

eral ier UR ke ee leis

Only

aL

 

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

BUT

PHONE 463-7000
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982

 

Registration guide

REGISTRATION FOR WINTER TERM
1. Registration for courses to be given in the Winter Term will be
held as follows:
SENIORS — Monday, October 25
JUNIORS — Tuesday, October 26
SOPHOMORES — Wednesday, October 27
FRESHMEN — Thursday, October 28

2. Procedure:
a. Consult the 1982-83 Catalogue and select the courses you wish to

take in the Winter Term. Check the listing of courses being given
(which is posted on the official Bulletin Board) for any changes in
courses or hours from that shown in the catalogue. PLEASE USE A
PLANNING CARD TO INSURE NO CONFLICT IN MEETING
TIME.
b. If a course requires departmental permission, it should be ob-
tained before seeing the adviser.
c. On the day scheduled for your class, come to the Registrar’s Of-
fice between 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. and obtain your WINTER TERM
REGISTRATION CARD along with a copy of your record. Take
these items with your PLANNING CARD to your adviser who will
complete your registration.
3. A student who fails to pre-register at the designated time will be
subject to a late registration fee of $25. (p. 51, Catalogue)
4. NOTE: A student may elect to receive a composite grade of P for
Physical Education. This option must be made at the beginning of
the Winter Term of a student’s Freshman year (see p. 151,
Catalogue).

NEW COURSES WINTER TERM 1982-83
BIOLOGY 224 (4) - Animal Behavior.

Prerequisite: Biology 114 or permission of instructor. Depart-
mental permission required. A study of animal behavior adapts
organisms to their environment. Laboratories will focus either on a
behavior or on a method of recording behavior. Professor
Bergstrom.

Winter: lecture B (MWF)
laboratory GHIJ(W)

HISTORY 361 (3) - The Reformation.

Prereguisite: Junior standing or permission of the instructor.
The Church and popular religion in the late medieval age, Luther,
Calvin and the Protestant radicals, the wars of religion and the
Catholic Reformation. Professor Cecil.

Winter: EF (TT)

‘SUAdHO TVIOUdS UNOA
NO SN das “TVd AZVHO TVA V HOU
GOI NVHL Yad VAHO ATOO
SOOM SddadyH — YANIVL-DAY V LING

SaxOg S,10]99]]0') peayasoop aary a4

JOT] SL’
-SoUIM OoURIG puke ODSNAQUIe’T oyTUNTY

syoed-Z1 png
syoed-Z1 Yosng
UU ‘20-8Z-SAaXTJN| AIG epeued

x0g ‘Q'T-T
-TUOIBIBI MOQ SJOTTONI]

J94}TT-C

Jaddag 1de}styunSe Ma] ‘yWNelsdag
AayaNy, ‘uayotyD

‘Jaeg ‘Z0-g-Salg 30g Jonbueg

iONSASAM.SLNIAYAVd
40} UMOPapPISd/ S9II4g pausN] s,aH

iINIVOV LI JNOO SVH , JAIGG3AYs AZVUD,,

PRC

 

 

Mo Littlefield, president of Sigma Nu, International, sits outside SNU’s national headquarters in East
Lexington. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

By TOM BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

In what is being described as
a “rebirth” by their regional
adviser, the Sigma Nu social
fraternity is trying to rise from
the ashes of last year’s demise.

Eight freshmen have been
recruited by the national
organization, which is based in
Lexington and was founded at
VMI, to reform the Lambda
chapter that disbanded last fall.

Freshman Chris John is
president of the group trying to
reform the fraternity. The new
Sigma Nus will attain a ‘‘post-
colony’ status some time
around Parents’ Weekend, he
said. ‘‘Post-colony” implies
that they are trying to form a
colony at a university where a
chapter has already existed.

John, son of Dean of Students
Lewis John, sees the reforma-
tion of the house as an oppor-
tunity ‘‘to be in on decisions...to
make it what we want to make
it. ” His goal for the house is to

“start from scratch” and put
the house “‘into the form that it
once was...one of the best.”’

Dan Rodriguez, who is
regional director for the na-
tional organization, sees the
reformation as “a challenge of
putting together something
now..(with) no traditions.”’ He
also called it an “opportunity
(for the members of the colony)
to do something on their own
from the first.’’

Both John and Rodriguez
noted that the new organization
has considerable support from
alumni of the chapter. The
alumni are currently conduc-

FREE KITTENS
To Good Homes

Ask for Jane

University ext. 241
or

463-6893

ting a fundraising drive for
money to refurbish the old
chapter house on Henry Street.

Work is expected to begin on
the house in January. The base-
ment and first floor are suppos-
ed to be completed in the
spring. Then, if all goes accor-
ding to plan, the chapter will
celebrate its 100th anniversary,
and the present ‘‘post-colony’’
will receive its charter. John
expects the fraternity to be able
to occupy the house next fall.

As for the people who had
been members of Sigma Nu
before it disbanded last fall,
Rodriguez said that Capt.
Charles Hill, their faculty ad-
viser, sent them all letters ask-
ing if they wanted to participate
in the reorganization of the
fraternity, but received no
responses. The letter stated
that the original members
should be willing to observe cer-
tain guidelines necessary to
make it a good chapter of Sigma
Nu.

Rodriguez pointed out that
the old members felt that these
guidelines were not necessary.
Although no agreement could
be reached Rodriguez said
there were no_ resultant
hostilities between the national
organization and the original
members.

Former Sigma Nu active Bill
France added, ‘‘Dan Rodriguez
and Mo Littlefield made the ef-
fort to get letters to everyone,”’
but that the former members of
the fraternity were not in-
terested in becoming involved
in the reestablishment of the

 

 

 

house.

OPEN 7 DAYS 6-12

 

Sigma Nu rises from ashes

Rodriguez added that all of
the local debt accumulated by
the original members had been
paid off by the chapter’s alum-
ni. According to John these
debts totaled close to $10,000.

With all of this behind them,
the members of the new Sigma
Nu are not holding their own
rush. They are being very selec-
tive in choosing freshmen who,
for whatever reason, did not
pledge any other house during
the original rush, John said.

John and the others in the
group are also busy writing a
constitution and by-laws for
their new fraternity.

 

Chris John

 

 

iGHS —

The Dairy Store
BEER «WINE ¢SNACKS

463-2229

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982, Page 7

 

Carole Chappell manages ‘wildlife

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi staff writer

The sign outside the office
said “Wildlife Manager,’’ but
the voice coming from inside
was not so dramatic.

Instead, a smooth southern
accent sighs into the phone
receiver: ‘‘University Center.
May I help you?” The call had
started a daily routine for
Carole Chappell.

As the minutes become hours,
a steady stream of students
enter, lingering to talk or just
loitering. Chappell seems to at-
tract students, and her office
has been a gathering place for
them in the five years she has
worked at Washington and Lee.

Many of the students are here
to see Michael A. Cappeto, asso-
ciate dean of students and
director of placement. Others
belong to organizations that
receive telephone messages
and mail here.

‘T’'m officially the career
secretary for Mike Cappeto, but
over the years, I’ve become a
secretary for the organiza-
tions,’’ Chappell said.

But more than that, she’s a
friend.

“‘T really love my job. I like to
think that’s because I am a dif-
ferent type of secretary. I enjoy
partying with the students. I
just love to talk with people,”
she said. “I guess I just enjoy
the all-male environment.”’

Being a woman in a man’s
school makes her a center of at-
tention, and a target for tom-
foolery.

One time someone had left a
dead fish in the Executive Com-

a?

 

Carole Chappell poses with friends Len Howard and Don Harold. ‘‘I guess I just enjoy the all-male en-
vironment,”’ University Center’s ‘‘wildlife manager” said.

mittee room, nearby in the stu-
dent center. President Bennett
Ross passed along the corpse to
Chappell.

“The fish was dead, and I
mean by months! Someone put
it on my desk, and you could
smell it (in the hallway). As I
came around the corner and
saw the thing, I screamed! And
then Bennett got it,” she said,
her blue eyes rolling as she
laughed.

Then there was the time
someone left a dead turtle. And
don’t forget that Monday morn-
ing when her office was stuffed
with newspapers from floor to
ceiling.

“T can give it and I can take

it. I just love practical jokes, as
long as they’re not on me,”’ she
said.

With the fun, though, comes
work. And work she does. Be-
sides her secretarial duties, she
coordinates all job interviews
on campus and keeps the
bulletin board outside her office
loaded with notices.

This year she is president of
the University Women’s Feder-
ation, a group for employees on
campus as well as the wives of
all faculty and administrators.
ministrators.

On top of that, Chappell
triples as a student and wife.

Cryptogram kills cats

By BETTY MUNGER

Curiosity may kill cats but
people seem to thrive on their
inquisitive bent. What is around
the next turn of the road? What
makes the gadget work? The
summit of Mt. Everest’
“because it is there.” The
achieved answer to the asking
is only a part of the delight in
exploration. Whether in love or
in code-breaking, getting there
is a fine part of the fascination.
The challenge is adventure
itself.

 

Hockman’s Antiques
and Curios

Buying and Selling Antique and Used Furniture
Glassware and Collectables
122 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
CHARLES R. HOCKMAN
ROBERTAN. HOCKMAN

ee © <a © <em> 2 WE 2 ORR cM Gc 2 RR ON mu

So it is with riddles, conun-
drums, and puzzles. From the
time we were first asked ‘‘What
is black and white and read all
over?’’ we are exposed to words
at work and play.

Crossword puzzles, double-
acrostics and cryptograms are
valuable vocabulary-builders
without the grind of rote-
memory. There is nonsense of
language coupled with diver-
sities of meaning. They also
serve as great antidotes to
dullness.

The cryptogram printed be-

SE 0 0 EE © EE 0 EEE 0 EE 0 EE 0 EE 0 <> 0 aE,

ANTI

HOME 463-3674
OFFICE 463-6633

f

low carries not only its own
reward of success when solved,
but the Bookstore will give a 10
percent discount to the first ten
most curious people who decode
its serious message.

_A HINT: This is a straight
letter-for-letter system. Happy
hunting.

NYZLHEPHS TU BOY
BOYLES
BOPB BOY HLZZLI AYLAQY
MILK KOPB BOYS KPIB
PIN NYUYEFY BL RYB TB
RLLN PIN OPEN.
0.Q. AYTHMYI

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan _
JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

|

11 W. Nelson

 

463-2022

 

As a part-time student at
Mary Baldwin College, Chap-
pell is taking a course in W&L’s
psychology department.

“TI thought Psychology would
be common sense. My job is
basically common sense. So I
went in with a good attitude,”
she noted. But she gripes, too,
like any other student.

“This stuff is getting to me.
Last night I dreamed I was be-
ing chased by a medulla,”
Chappell joked.

9

Chappell lives in Lexington,
her home town, with her hus-
band Skip.

“My husband and I live in
Lexington, but he doesn’t work
in Lexington,’’ she said. ‘“There
aren’t too many accounting jobs
in Lexington.”

“You know, when the stu-
dents are gone, Lexington’s
really a bore.”

Chappell’s lively lifestyle en-
croaches on her home life,
Chappell admits. At least two
weekends a month are spent out
of town, and her being tied up
with work til after 5 p.m. makes
her “‘big on Stouffer’s (TV din-

ners).””

Above her desk is a small sign
printed on yellow paper: ‘‘Don’t
be afraid to hurt my feelings.
All you risk is my unbounded
rage.”

Yet, Chappell also can turn on
unbounded charm.

Within 30 minutes one after-
noon, some 14 students had
come through the office, and the
phone had rung a couple of
times. Chappell only took time
to brush her hair.

One student complained
about the weight room.

“You want me to volunteer
lifting weights?” she asked
him. “Carole,” he replied,
“people wouldn’t keep their
minds on lifting if you were
there.”’

‘What a friend,” she said,
hugging him.

0 0 0 0 0 a 0 0 0 0 8

 
 

8 North Main

The Country Kitchen
An Old Fashion Bake

Eatinortakeout ,*

Birthday and other special occasion
CAKES

mv’
ee

Ps

     

Phone: 703-463-5691

TA
@ <a © <6 <0 EE 6 a

THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR
EDUCATIONAL TESTING

ye VI

PREPARATION COURSE

New York, N.Y. 10020

 

* Allentown, PA
+ Atlanta, GA

* Connecticut

* IHlinois

* Long Island, NY » Washington, DC
+ New Jersey

+ New York City

* Philadelphia, PA
* Pittsburgh, PA

* Virginia

* Westchester, NY

PREPARE NOW FOR DECEMBER 4 EXAM

NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-hr. courses: Live lectures: Simulated exam
conditions Special home-study materials -Tape library Up-to-date
course materials:Group & individual counseling

CUR Am et Ml Te eC] ae

For a tree brochure and an invitation to a free sample class Covering the
LSAT exam and the Law Schoo! admission process call now or write:

rou rree (800) 223-2618

The National Center for Educational Testing
1271 Ave. of the Americas, Suite 777

Contact locally:
C. Jay Robbins
(703) 463-6687

GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or

take the next course FREE.

 
 

Se sen selene

F
&
-

Ure

    

LAL SERIA Bec Re 4 ae.

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982

Powell speaks

(continued from page 1)
Justice Warren E. Burger to tell
a magazine _ interviewer,
“There is a serious question
how long we can cope with this
flood of litigation.”

Although additional judges
have been appointed (there was
a 30 percent increase in federal
judgeships during the Carter
administration), Powell says
that still ‘‘the entire federal
system is overloaded.”

Powell told the students that
the percentage of the gross na-
tional product spent on lawyer’s
fees now exceeds the GNP seg-
ment produced by the steel in-
dustry. ‘‘The truth is that the
U.S. has become a litigious

society. People litigate now
about anything. The result is
now...an overload problem,”’ he
said.

In an August speech to the
American Judicature Society in
San Francisco, Associate
Justice John Paul Stevens pro-
posed the creation of a new
court that would not actually
decide Supreme Court cases on
their merits but would take over
the job of selecting cases for the
Supreme Court to hear. By giv-
ing up the case selection func-

  

Records - Tapes
Stereo Components "

 

tion, Justice Stevens said, the
Supreme Court would gain
more time for ‘‘their most im-
portant work’? — deciding
cases.

In an interview with the Ring-
tum Phi, Powell said that
“there are better ways to
alleviate the overload problems
of our court.’ Regarding the
Stevens solution, he told the
students, ‘‘I do not think that is
the best solution by any means.
I think we should determine our
own docket.”’

There are a variety of solu-
tions available, according to
Powell. “‘Congress is going to
have to take a look at our
jurisdiction,’’ he said. ‘‘Most of
the proposals would involve
Congressional action.

“‘T would like to see our diver-
sity jurisdiction (power over
cases with the defendant from
one state and the plaintiff in
another) eliminated or
drastically reduced. This is a
very major factor in the dockets
of the courts at all levels,” he
said.

He would also like to see some
restriction on ‘unlimited’

habeas corpus appeals to the
High Court. ‘‘The time is long

 
   
 

LEXINGTON - BUENA VISTA SHOPPING PARK 463-9494

 

 
 

AT110E

   

 

List $65.00

 

@Sanvo
AM Shortwave FM Stereo

Cassette Recorder with Player
2: Way Speakers

 

    

149°

AT125LC

List $130.0
OUR PRICE $24.95 OUR PRICE $49.95

SANYO Micro
Mini Size Stereo Cassette

 

$4997

 

overdue for some limitation of
federal court review except
Constitutional issues which in-
volve guilt or innocence.”’
(That,) he told a reporter, ‘‘is
critical.”

federal judiciary is the
multitude of death penalty ap-
peals.

“There’s no end to these
cases — literally none, Powell
said. ‘‘There is a de facto
recognition that almost no one
who wishes not to be executed
will be executed.”

Many of these appeals, he
said, are based on ‘‘ineffective
counsel,’’ He drew laughs from
the audience by declaring, ‘‘If
you lose, you’re ineffective!”’

Powell believes fundamental
reform is needed. ‘‘I ...think we
should either abolish capital
punishment or it should be en-
forced. The present system and
the way it’s exploited brings the
law into disrespect. It also
leaves a thousand on death
row...

“The system ought to be
made to work or capital punish-
ment should be abolished,”’ he
stated.

When a student asked about
the proposed Equal Rights

 

maxell.

Amendment, Powell told her, ‘‘I
think 95 percent of the ERA has
already been adopted by the
United States Supreme Court,
though I realize reasonable peo-
ple can disagree with that. . .

“Past Court action assures as
far as the law can assure it. . .
that there will be equal rights
for women.’ However, he
said, “I don’t oppose the amend-
ment.” He pointed out that his
daughter is a lawyer who
strongly supports the ERA.

Regarding recent legislation
which would restrict Court
authority over prayer in the
public schools, Powell said, ‘‘I
suspect there are very few
lawyers or judges who would
Support as a proposition Con-
gress altering the Constitu-
tional jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court.

“If one believes in our system
— the separation of powers doc-
trine — the Supreme Court
must be respected as the final
arbiter of Constitutional
issues.”

Powell said he agreed with a
press account that called the
term that began a few weeks
ago not only the Court’s ‘‘most
crowded docket ever, but also
the most politically charged.”’
‘Sooner or later, Powell said,
“‘all the great issues of the day
reach. us.”’

He told the Phi, ‘‘We are

ST DIK.

    
 
 
   
 

 

 

        
       
 

UDC 90 3-PACK MAXELL TDK
Reg. $13.47 UDXLII Deal DC-60 2-PACK
NOW $10.49 2-UDXLII Reg.  -$4.99
nels NOW ONLY $3.99
rt a MAXELL Reg. $10.98 TDK
KN) LNC-120—2BAG  NOW$9.98 DC-90 2-BAG
‘ List $11.18 Reg. $6.50
OUR PRICE $7.99 NOW ONLY $4.99
MAXELL
: UDC 90 2-PACK MEMOREX
a ud i0- ken Reg. $8.98 | HI-BIAS—3 BAG
LNC-46—2 NOW $7.49 | Buy 2, Get One FREE
technica ence wie Reg. $17.91
OUR PRICE §3. NOW $11.98

 

 

Cartridges

Headphones

 

   

@SANnYo
Mini-Size Stereo Component
System

    

 

   

f

  

—_

— SUPER CUT-OUTS —

100’s of Hard-to-find LP’s, from $1.99 \
Over 1400 Used LP’s, starting at 10° wt

        
 

 

 

 

 

 

0 ‘From.

$29.95 - $149.95

@SANYO Min
Sie AM FM Cassette
Stereo Player

Headphones

. a
|
;
\ im
Pac
ste oe

$79

‘
'

|

 

@SANYO Mini
AM/FM Stereo Cassette Player
with Lightweight Stereo

Yy g— tl, iil
s159”

@ SAN VO Mimature

Stereo Cassette Player

with Lightweight Headphones
4

mm

 

$9995

@SANVO AM FM
Cassette Recorder with
Variable Monitor

oe wooters and 2° tweeters
STE

me, , [ist 499°
Noma: *

$599

   

RS TUNER/AMPLIFIER
+ Sensitive AM/FM stereo tuner

+ Plenty of power: 20 watts per channei
+ Seperate bass and treble controls

* LED signal strength meter.

05 CASSETTE DECK

+ Plays any tape type. including Metai

      
       
   
   
 

* Dolby’ noise reduction

+ Iiuminated VU meters

SS SPEAKER SYSTEM

+ Powerful 2-way @peakers with 4 cone

      
         
  
   

  
  

Our Price
~* $4298

criticized for making political
and policy judgments when we
are a court of law. But many
such decisions are decisions
that Congress, in effect, has
forced the Court to make.”’ As
examples, he cited Brown vs.
the Board of Education and
other integration and busing
cases.

Among the most important
cases coming up in this term, he
said, are those regarding abor-
tion, creationism and the
copyright regulation of home
video recording. One case that
will generate an extraordinary
amount of attention regards the
validity of the one house veto
in U.S. Congress. ‘‘That will
be a major constitutional
decision, whichever way it
comes out,’ he said.

Powell is proud of the Court’s
procedure and tradition. As an
example, he said in an inter-
view, ‘‘the dissent function is an
effective, recognized, and Con-
stitutional part of the system’”’
He said, ‘You about never get
an opinion by everybody
without someone suggesting
something constructive regard-
ing it.

“It’s not easy to change the
Constitution except by our
Court and we should be very
careful about making those
changes unless they’re fun-
damental,’ he said.

A question Powell said he fre-
quently gets is about the health
of the Justices. ‘‘This Court has
one of the oldest average ages
in its history — six of us are
over 70.”’ Powell dismissed re-
cent speculation about the
possible illness of Justice
Thurgood Marshall. ‘‘Nothing
in the world is wrong with his
health,’ he said.

The most famous inside view
of the Burger Court available is
the bestseller of a few years ago
sarcastically titled ‘‘The
Brethren,” written by Bob
Woodward of Watergate fame
and Scott Armstrong, who is
rumored to have been ‘‘Deep
Throat.’ It was highly critical
of the Court and did not portray
some of the Justices in the most
favorable of lights.

‘I have never read the book,
but from what I’ve heard, the
book is not a serious book about
the Supreme Court,” Powell
said. He told the The Phi, ‘“‘It
presents the Supreme Court ina
light I do not think is accurate.
The Supreme Court is a far
more serious, careful institu-
tion than ‘The Brethren’ seem-

ed to suggest.”
He said, however, that he is
willing to have the Court

scrutinized, ‘“‘We’re one of the
most open bodies in Wash-
ington,’’ he said.

In his opening remarks,
Powell called the law school
“one of the best, if not the best,
law school facilities in the na-
tion.’’ Powell, a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, received his B.S.
from W&L in 1929, and earned
an LL.B. from the law school in
1931. The Justice, who was a
member of the Phi Delta Phi
fraternity here, is considered to
be one of the court’s moderates.
 

 

New leader keeps Sem small

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Southern Seminary’s Junior
College’s new president, Joyce
Davis, is committed to keeping
the school what it is today, a
very small school for women.
She thinks both the size and the
single sex population are essen-
tial to the academic at-
mosphere the school tries. to
create.

“The single sex population is
an inherent part of the school’s
character.”’ said Davis. ‘“There
is a certain tension that exists
between the sexes, and the
absence of the opposite sex
helps ease these tensions, mak-
ing a better environment for
study.”

It is also important to keep
the size of the school at about
300 students, said Davis, 47,
because it allows a high degree
of individulaized attention for
the students. In larger schools
some teachers are more like-
ly to be interested in do-
ing research or writing a
book than helping a student
with her work, stated Davis.
However, the small size of
Southern Seminary makes it
possible for a student to get help
from her teacher.

Davis, who had planned to
teach high school English was
encouraged to teach in college,
joined the Southern Seminary
faculty almost reluctantly in
1965. She was offered a tem-
porary position teaching
English, but was hesitant to ac-
cept because she wanted to
spend time with her two
children. But, fearing she would
not get another opportunity to
join the staff, she accepted the
offer.

In 1971 she became the
Academic Dean. ‘‘One goal I
had while I was dean was to im-
prove the academic program,”’
Davis stated, ‘‘I think that has
occurred.

“T have tried to find the peo-
ple with the highest academic
credentials possible,’ explain-
ed Davis.

She has also tried to get facul-
ty members that share the
“kind of attitude that was con-
sistent with the purposes of
Southern Seminary.’ Davis
especially tried to get a faculty
that was willing to deal with the
students as individuals, with
their special problems and
fears.

She is optimistic about being
able to continue improving the
school in the future, but has ‘‘a
lot of anxiety about the next ten
years.”’ Declining enrollment
because of fewer college-aged
students will pose a major pro-

blem for small private univer-
sities because their operating
costs will stay the same while a
small number of students will
have to foot the bill.

By ‘‘merchandising’’
Seminary more actively, and by
broadening their recruitment
activities, Davis hopes to keep

 

the enrollment up, and tuitions
down. She also hopes to attract
more contributions and en-
dowments from the public to
help students afford college.

She thinks the ~ colleges
themselves, as well as_ the
private sector, will be able to
make up for much of the finan-
cial aid lost from state and
federal sources, but concedes
the cuts will hurt some
students.

She also foresees other .

changes on college campuses in
the near future.

Students today, Davis said,
‘go to college almost with tun-
nel vision.’’ Students decide
what their major is going to be,
and limit themselves to working
towards that their freshman
year, maintains Davis.
Students tend to go into ‘‘mean-
ingful”’ courses that will help
their majors, like English, the
sciences and math. They avoid
courses like art and music
because they are ‘‘useless.”’

This will change, said Davis,
as college reverse the trend of
the ’60s and ’70s by becoming
more rigid in the distribution
requirements, making students
take a wider range of subjects

 

AST LEX |

in their first two years of col-
lege. Thus students will start
concentrating on their majors
in their junior year, as was done
in the past.

Southern Seminary in the
past few years has started re-
quiring more distribution. ‘‘I’m
a firm believer in all those
‘useless’ things,”’ said Davis.

Washington and Lee students
are viewed by the rest of the
community as “‘liking to par-
ty,” she said laughing. Many
people see the stereotypical
W&L student as ‘‘rich kids from
prep school who come here to
party and study as little as
possible before going on to
medical school, law school or
daddy’s business,” she said, ad-
ding that people usually take
students as really they are after
meeting them.

Although holding reserva-
tions about the next dacade,
Davis is optimistic that
Southern Seminary will be able
to adapt and stay ‘‘up with the
times.”’

“‘What we teach today is very
different from the past.’’ added
Davis. Change in the future,
Davis said will be “‘sensitive to
changing needs for women.”’

SIDA At

BEER SPECIAL

BUD 12-PACK

$4.59

 

YOU CAN WAIT YEARS FOR
A JOB WITH RESPONSIBILITY,
OR YOU CAN GET
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE NAVY
NOW.

A civilian job with responsibility may take years to ob-
tain, even with a college degree. But if you meet Navy
Standards, after four months of Officer Candidate
School (OCS), you can become a Navy officer. And that
means lots of responsibility, a good salary and fringe
benefits, including travel, post-graduate educational
opportunities, 30 days’ paid vacation earned annually,

plus more.

If you’re getting your degree now, contact your col-
lege Placement Office to find out when a Navy
Representative will be on campus. Send your resume

or call:

Management Opportunities
Navy Recruiting District
8545 Maylord Drive

Richmond, Virginia 23229

(804) 270-3101

NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982, Page 9

 

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va.

463-3338

 

We

specialize
in your
favorite

deli foods.

Monday-
Saturday

9a.m.-la‘m.
Sunday 10a.m.-la.m.

 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

A A EN I Ok a

a ens we cnet

ee

ae ee
 

Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982

Finally,

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

Coach Page Remillard has
finally gotten the monkey off his
back: The Slippery Rock water
polo jinx is no more.

Despite a 1-2 record in the
Bucknell Invitational (15-6
overall) last weekend, the W&L
water polo Generals got the one
victory they’ve been looking for
over the past two years. The
Generals outplayed and out-
classed the Slippery Rock
Rockets, winning 16-11.

Earlier in the tourney, W&L
fell to Navy 10-7 and Brown, the

eventual tournament runner-up
to the New York AC, 14-8.

Sports

water polo downs Slippery Rock

‘‘We’re
satisfied,”

Satisfied, very
said a beaming
Remillard who noted that
despite the two losses, the
Generals are probably the third
best team on the East Coast,
and are as close to top-rated
Brown as anyone.

In the first game of the
weekend Brown simply outex-
perienced W&L, but all was not
lost. The Generals scouted
Brown heavily and gained
much food for thought as they
work towards a possible future
match-up at the Eastern cham-
pionships next month.

In the Navy contest, Remil-
lard filed a just protest that was

strangely denied. With less than
five minutes to play and Navy
leading by two goals, junior

- Tim Rock was sent off for a 45-

second penalty. As a result of
poor scorekeeping, Rock re-
mained off for over two minutes
allowing Navy to score and
establish a solid three goal lead.

The obvious mistake was not
rescinded by the committee as
they felt it was in the better in-
terest of the tournament to let
the result stand.

The highlight of the Generals’
weekend, however, was saved
for last. Junior Kevin Kadesky
and senior Bob Marshall team-
ed in goal to deny Slippery Rock

Harriers finish a ‘respectable’ fifth

‘Our performance was more
than respectable’ was how
Washington and Lee cross-
country coach Dick Miller
described his team’s showing at
the Virginia State Division II .
and III Championships Satur-
day at W&L.

Paced by junior Angus
McBryde’s 12th place finish, the
Generals placed fifth overall
with 135 points. Liberty Baptist
scored 28 points to win the
event, followed by Radford
(56), Christopher Newport
(120), and Lynchburg (131).

McBryde's time for the 8000-
meter course was 27:25. Behind
McBryde for the Generals were
sophomore Frank Pittman in
16th place with a time of 27:33,

CA

senior John Kelafant in 22nd
place, freshman Bob Glenn in
39th place and sophomore Paul
Chapman in 46th place. 73 run-
ners competed in the event.
‘Breaking down the scores
into head-to-head results, I’d
say the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship race
will be a two- or three-team

race between us, Lynchburg
and Roanoke,”’ said Miller.

Seven teams will compete in
that meet, to be held November
6 at Washington and Lee.

W&L will play host to Bridge-
water College and West
Virginia Tech at 11:30 a.m.
Saturday. The Generals dual
meet record is 6-1.

SAE wins golf title

Sigma Alpha Epsilon claimed
100 points in the years’ in-
tramural sweepstakes by win-
ning the I-M golf tournament
held Oct. 4 and 11.

SAE had an average score of
81.33 to outdistance Phi Delta
Theta ond! Phi a Gamme Delta.

FLORIST &

GREENERY

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9152

WELCOME PARENTS

IF YOU FORGOT TO BRING IT;
GET IT AT McCRUM’S

 
 

a

C ,
e
17 S. MAIN STREET

 

PHONE (702) 463-2323

ieiranincesttlt Aoeericnenegt Tanase

Shenandoah ( hice Supplies

 

Help For All Your Office Needs

‘“‘We order’’
Old Main Street
Lexington, Va. 24450 HELEN DUKE
"(7039 -463-4062°---- TED DUKE

eee ee er ok alll tans cocandl Agneta

 

|

The first two rounds of the
tennis playoffs were scheduled
for yesterday and today with
the finals slated for Sunday.

The finals in the football com-
petition, meanwhile, was sched-
uled for 4:45 p.m. today.

on over 50 percent of their at-
tempt. Kadesky alone stopped
58 percent of the Rocket’s shots,
had four steals, and even one
assist. Other leaders in the vic-
tory included Rock as a defen-
sive standout, Bobby Pearson
with another consistent mental
performance, and, of course,
the formidable offensive trio of

Erik Peterson, Rand McClain,
and Matt Ravencraft.

W&L continues Southern
League play this weekend, as
the Generals play host to 12
other participants. The game of
the weekend should take place
Saturday evening at 6 p.m.
when W&L goes up against arch
rival Richmond.

H-SC defenses W&L,
takes ODAC lead

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Washington & Lee’s football
team lost for the first time in
this year’s Old Dominion Athle-
tic Conference play Saturday,
as Hampden-Sydney upset the
Generals 3-0 on Wilson Field.

The loss dropped W&L to 3-1
in the league and diminishes the
Generals’ chances of capturing
a second consecutive ODAC
crown. Hampden-Sydney, now
3-0 in the ODAC, must lose one
of its two remaining league
games with Emory & Henry
and Randolph Macon in order
for the Generals to have a
chance to tie for the title.

“I’m telling my team just to
worry about the next game.
Don’t worry about the league,”
W&L Coach Gary Fallon said.

It was a particularly disap-
pointing loss for the Generals
though, as they had several op-
portunities to pull out the win.
“Our attitude is it wasn’t in the

> SD () ED () ED (ED () ED () ED () ED () ED () ED () ED ()

SD (<> () SD () ED () SD () (

LEXINGTON MOTEL RESTAURANT

STEAKS * SEAFOOD ¢ SALADS
Moderate Prices
Homecooked Meals
810 S. Main St.
7 A.M.-9:30 P.M. 7 Days © 463-5894

(ED () D> () ED ( ) RD () ED () ED ( ) <> () (D(C (

THURS.: AMBUSH—souTHERNRock LIVE ENTERTAINMENT —

30 N. Main °°

OPEN 11: A.M: to }.A:M..

~
-
~
i
~

cards. We win together as a
team, we lose together as a
team,”’ Fallon declared.

After a scoreless first half,
Hampden-Sydney took advan-
tage of a short punt to set up the
only score of the game. The
Hampsters took possession at
the W&L 34 yard line and drove
into field goal range. With 3:29
left in the third quarter, Hiter
Harris nailed a 32-yard field
goal to give the Hampsters a 3-0
lead.

W&L’s best opportunity to
pull the game out came midway
through the fourth quarter. The
Generals took control of the ball
at the Hampden-Sydney 45, and
quickly drove to the 10 yard
line. An 18-yard pass from John
Thompson to Ken Robinson and
a 12-yard pass to Jerry Thomp-
son provided key first downs
along the way.

At the 10 yard line, the drive
stalled. John Thompson’s se-
cond down pass seemed headed _
for tight end Dave Judge in the

' end zone, but a Hampden-

Sydney defensive back deflect-
ed the ball away at the last mo-
ment. ‘That kid did make a
spectacular play to knock down
the pass to Judge,” Fallon con-
ceded.

On fourth down, the Generals
lined up for a 30-yard field goal
attempt. The snap bobbled
slightly, and Bill Devine’s kick
sailed wide left.

W&L’s offense got their hands

(continued on page 11)

Cera
Wetdninan) Parents!

The ‘‘Columns”’ Welcomes All Students and Alumni to try our delicious menu.

Specially Prepared Entrees —- Luncheon & Dinner
COCKTAILS — BEER — WINE

FRI. & SAT.: MOLIMO—ROCK AND MORE

+» 463-9331. «.

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 1982, Page 11

Offensive collapse in three easy steps

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Sports Editor
First, the Washington and

Lee offense sputtered on Wilson '

Field last Saturday.

Then it fizzled.

And then it died.

And when the cold, windy
afternoon had come to an end,
Hampden-Sydney’s Tigers had
handed the Generals their first
shutout since a 28-0 loss to Get-
tysburg early in the 1980 cam-
paign.

The Hampden-Sydney of-
fense, which had only scored 35
points in five games this season
would only score three points on
this day. But that was enough as
their defense held the Generals
at every turn.

And the net result was that
Washington and Lee will need
nothing short of a miracle to
win their second Old Dominion
Athletic Conference title. With
the loss, W&L. dropped to 3-1 in
the ODAC, while H-S upped its
record to 3-0.

The Generals will have to
defeat Bridgewater on Oct. 30
and hope that the Tigers lose
their remaining two ODAC con-
tests. However, both of those
games will be at home for H-S.
They will host Emory and
Henry and Randolph-Macon.

Football

(continued from page 10)
on the ball one more time, at
their own 27 yard line with
about two minutes left. Junior
quarterback Al Paradise came
off the bench to complete a 20-
yard pass to Chris Cavalline for
a crucial first down, but the
Generals could not pick up
another first down. With 1:06
left in the game, Paradise’s
fourth down pass was _in-
tercepted at the Hampden-
Sydney 11 yard line.

On the positive side, W&L’s
defense played one of their bet-
ter games of the year. They
held Hampden-Sydney to 187
yards of total offense and only 6
first downs.

“They played good football,
but that was the poorest offen-
sive team we’ve seen,’’ said
Fallon of his defense’s effort.
“I’m not taking anything away
from our defense though,’ he
concluded.

This Saturday at Wilson Field
the Generals will try to raise
their overall record to 4-2
against the University of the
South. Sewanee brings a 4-2
record into the game.

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

| need your head

in my business

9 South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.

The Generals’ offense had
been rated as perhaps the tops
in the league coming into the
season, yet it failed to

* materialize on Saturday.

There are, of course, several
reasons for this that would im-
mediately strike the untrained
eye. First, starting quarterback
Al Paradise and starting slot-
back Jerry Thompson were in-
jured, although both saw a little
bit of action. However, W&L
ran. up 28 points against Mary-
ville two weeks ago without
these two performers.

Secondly, was the wind and

the cold that made the passing
game difficult. Yet, the Gener-
als seemed to deviate from
their normal trickery and re-
verse-direction plays that will
get any running game untrack-
ed and, in turn, help the passing
game. Normally, several times
a game, on a sweep, tailback
Chris Cavalline will either hand
the ball to the slotback going the
other way or will fake that
handoff just to keep the defense
honest. Coach Gary Fallon’s
Generals ran that play only
once Saturday, and it is pro-
bably not coincidental that

|

Cavalline only gained 35 yards
on 21 carries.

Also, Cavalline, who led the
Generals with 11 receptions, on-
ly caught one pass coming out
of the backfield. In fact, the
Generals passing game as a
whole was rather lackadaisical
as Paradise and starter John
Thompson combined to throw
three interceptions and many of
their completions were just
safety valve passes for short
yardage.

Another factor contributing to
the team’s demise was penal-
ties. Although W&L was only
flagged six times for 42 yards in
the fast-paced game, two of the
penalties wiped out first downs
and two eliminated long
Cavalline punts. Giving credit
where credit is due, however,
the W&L defense did an excep-
tional job of shutting down the
H-S attack, especially since
they were on the field a large
portion of the game.

The University

 

 

 

Bill Holmes’ (not pictured) header goes to the Lynchburg net
Tuesday as Roland Simon (5) watches. (Phi photo by David
Sprunt)

Soccer ties Lynchburg
improves to 5-2-2

Freshman Bill Holmes’ goal midway through the second half
enabled the Washington and Lee soccer team to tie Division III
powerhouse Lynchburg 1-1 on Wilson Field Tuesday.

Holmes’ header above the Hornets’ goalie’s head gave the
Generals a 1-0 lead. However, Lynchburg retaliated with a goal
four minutes later. A diving save by W&L goalie Kirk Mancer kept
the Generals’ chances alive, but neither team was able to score in
the two ten-minute overtime periods.

At the 4:06 mark of the first overtime, the Hornets had an ex-
cellent chance to score as Mancer was beaten by a Hornet forward.

However, his shot into an open goal was from too much of an angle ~

and rolled right across the front of the net.

The tie marked the first time since 1974 that W&L has not lost to
Lynchburg.

Earlier in the week, two goals by sophomore Jeff Reichert had
powered W&L to a 6-1 crushing of Gettysburg College. Senior Brad
Poorman and junior Roland Simon each added a goal and an assist.

Last Saturday, however, Messiah College scored two goals in the
final six minutes of the game to down W&L by a 2-0 count. Senior
Tad Renner and sophomore Rob Coleman were named players-of-
the-game.

The Generals will host Division II rival Radford Saturday on
Wilson Field at 10:00 a.m. Next Wednesday, they will face VMI in
the annual United Way game to be held at VMI.

Chinese, Polynesian, and
American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

= (Sun. Buffet 12- 2:30-$4.25]
ALOHA WOK “Carry-out Available”’

 

 

463-9342
ier. Open Tuesday through Sunday
Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10

Closed Saturday Luncheon

re

eC yer,

 

 

Snack Bar

and

Supply Store

Welcomes all
Parents,
Friends & Students

We'll be open on Saturday,
October 23rd from 9:00 - 1:00.

Our Herff Jones ring represen-
tative will also be here to take
orders.

Seniors

 

Only one week remains

to have your senior picture
taken.

The Calyx is under
deadline pressures. Late
pictures cannot be put in
the book. Don’t delay!

Sign up in the Co-op now!

 

aanegencanananasnnsnesnpemmencpiees eegnenepcnai=atner=nar naa aueaoth sunroeenrnes eter SS

TROBE,

Epes SAAT Ge MOG TLE PRE EPS

Hee ST eet
fe
¢
a

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, October 21, 19¢

(PUN eer nate y

LU SOM GU Ay

fe SUPERB MEXICAN FOOD — GIVE IT A TRY!!

All You Can Eat x x *3.99 xx
THURSDAY (the 21st)
Pe led Ce

COUNTRY

EXPRESS & BLUE GRASS

FRIDAY JIMMY O. & THE
te Leena

WED. ro BROS. En
ee LO) ee

PULLS CCC OL Eb This Fa I

| 2 9 Fane el aa

WIDE SCREEN TV
MOVIES EVERY DAY
HAPPY HOUR 3-6

 —~Wewill not be
ae undersold! ¢

 

ON THE CORNER!! NELSON & JEFFERSON
 

VOLUME 82

NUMBER 8

 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WAGHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia October 28, 1982

LT 29 1982

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Phony bomb

threat

empties Graham-Lees

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Graham-Lees Freshman Dormitory was
evacuated by Lexington police early
Wednesday morning in response to a
telephoned bomb threat. Emergency of-
ficials conducted a room-by-room search
of the building, but no explosive device
was found.

Police ordered the building cleared
about 2:20a.m. In light of recent fraternity
activities, many students responded with
disbelief to the order to assemble in the
quad. Nevertheless, the dormitory was
emptied in about ten minutes. Students
were allowed to return to their rooms when
the search was completed at 3:10 a.m.

As he watched the students rushing back
into the dormitory, police Lieutenant
Wayne Straub, the commanding officer on
the scene, said, ‘‘Ninety-nine percent of
the time you can figure it’s a hoax, but
because there’s that one percent chance,
you have to take the precautions we did.”’

Two police units, a life saving crew, a
hook and ladder unit, and two pumper
units responded to the call and surrounded
the building. A physical search of each
room in Graham-Lees was then carried
out.

‘We got the fire department out to give
us the manpower to do this,” field com-
mander Straub said. ‘‘We’ve looked in all
the obvious places—trash cans, storage
closets, and all the rooms.”

Acting Police Chief Bruce M. Beard said
that if explosives had been found, a state
police bomb squad would have been called
from Salem or Augusta County. Canine
units are also available from those
sources. ‘‘Thank God it turned out to be a
false alarm,” he said.

Beard said the police are extremely
cautious about ruling that a threat was a
hoax. ‘‘We just about turn the building up-
side down before we call off the search. We
make ourselves confident there’s no bomb

there.”’

Freshman Townes Pressler answered
the phone call in which the threat was
made. The call was placed at about 1:10
a.m. to one of the hall phones on the second
floor of Graham-Lees.

Pressler quoted the adult male caller as
having said, ‘‘Listen! There’s a bomb on
the second floor of Graham-Lees. A
bomb.” The caller then hung up.

‘‘He didn’t sound drunk,”’ Pressler said.
“He sounded perfectly straight — there
wasn’t even any music in_ the
background.”

Pressler, a pre-med major who was
elected freshman class president last
week, went back to his room to think for a
for a few minutes.

“I knew what would happen if I called
the police — they’d get everybody out of
the building, and I didn’t want that.”
However, he said, “I thought I’d feel
mighty guilty if everyone in here got blown
up.”’

“IT went down the hall to see if they’d
called on the other phone, but the line was
tied up,”’ he said. He then went to his dorm
counselor, Frank Eppes, who in turn con-
tacted Assistant Head Dormitory Coun-
selor Newton Kendrick. The heating plant
was called, and the night watchman came
and inspected the floor. When he found
nothing, he reached Asssistant Proctor
Burr Datz at home, who ordered that the
police be called.

Police records show that the call came in
at 2:13, and units were on the scene six
minutes later.

During the search, students assembled
in the Davis Dormitory quad and near the
bookstore. Others escaped the frigid
weather by congregating in the Commerce
School and the library.

Robert Huntley, Dean of Freshmen, said
approximately 235 students and sixteen
dorm counselors are housed in Graham-
Lees.

 

Washington and Lee and Virginia Military students line up for a throw-in at
Wednesday’s Rugby match-up at VMI. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Faculty moves toward major curriculum change

Faculty members have been
debating, sometimes with great
passion, over a proposal to in-
crease the number of _ the
distribution credits a student
must earn to graduate from 36
to up to 53.

It comes to a vote at Mon-
day’s monthly faculty meeting.

Sources say the proposed plan
‘will probably be approved, with
minor alterations, at the
meeting.

The plan will allow students
less of a chance to determine
their schedule. According to the

plan, a student would have to

reach the second level of
foreign language study before
graduation. He would also have
to have six credits in English
literature and four credits in a
laboratory science, among
other requirements.

The plan was drawn up by a
faculty committee under the
chairmanship of English pro-
fessor Sidney Coulling. The
Committee on General Educa-
tion, as it was called, was an
outgrowth of a faculty/student
committee set up in 1980 to
study a perceived lack of direc-
tion in the  university’s
academic life.

This committee issued a
report last spring in which it
outlined its curriculum pro-
posals. The report, some of
which is reproduced here, pro-
posed to revamp the idea of
general education in the face of
increasing amounts of students
who come to college looking for
courses which will assist them
get into graduate school.

Reproduced here is part of
the Committee on General

Education’s report, which will
be voted on this Monday.

The Committee unanimously
makes the following recommen-
dations to the faculty:

I. In the areas of the human-
tities we support an increase in
the minimum requirements
from 12 to 18 credits for the best
prepared student and 33 credits
for those least proficient in
languages.

A. Requiring the student to
learn and practice effective
composition is, and should re-
main, the responsibility of the
entire W&L faculty. Never-
theless, we are sensitive to the
challenge from parents and
alumni who incredulously ask
us, “Can a student graduate
from Washington and Lee
without ever completing an

English course?’ Moreover, we
recognize that a formal, stated
requirement will help to im-
press the student with the im-
portance we place on writing
ability. We recommend that the
English department continue to
assess the proficiency of enter-
ing students and that the faculty
require the least proficient to
complete English 101, and the
moderately proficient to com-
plete English 111, or 113, 115.
The most proficient would be
exempt from a composition re-
quirement.

B. In 1981, over one-third of
our degree applicants offered
no foreign language for degree
credit. The Committee believes
that one of the most liberating
studies which the liberal arts
curriculum offers is acquain-
tance with a culture other than

the student’s own and that the
study of a foreign language is
the best way to gain such ac-
quaintance. The breadth of our
current language offerings
leads us to the conclusion that
the time has come to re-
emphasize to the student the
value of foreign languages as a
tool for gaining access to other
cultures. Since all agree that a
single year of foreign language
provides the student with little
benefit in itself, we recommend
that the faculty require comple-
tion of the intermediate or se-
cond year. Such a requirement
would assure that a student has
a real option of studying
another culture through
reading its literature in the
original language or _par-

(continued on page 5)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1982

 

Op

inion

 

 

  
 
 

* THIS, HOWEVER, SHOULD NOT, IN ANY

Elections: It’s still a dead heat

By MIKE ALLEN

As area voters go to the polls
on Election Day next Tuesday,
they will be helping to deter-
mine the outcome of two sharp-
ly contested, closely-watched
political campaigns. In both the
Senatorial and the Congres-
sional race, the two candidates
are running in a virtual dead
heat.

In addition, Rockbridge Coun-
ty voters will elect a represen-
tative to the State House of
Delegates, and Virginians will
give their opinion of three pro-
posed amendments to the state
Constitution.

Political Primer

Virginia tends to vote
Republican in national elec-
tions, while Democrats are
firmly in control at the state
level.

The Democrats have carried
the state in a Presidential elec-
tion only once since 1952, and
nine of the state’s ten Congres-
sional seats are Republican.
Congressional Quarterly says
that it expects at least seven of
these GOP seats will be retain-
ed, and in two races — sixth
district, including Lexington,
and the eighth district, compos-
ed of Washington, D.C. suburbs
— there is “‘no clear favoite.”’

The Democrats haven't
elected a Senator since 1966.
One of the state’s seats in the
Senate is held by Republican
John W. Warner, who was
elected in 1978 and faces the
voters again in 1984.

The other seat — the one
that’s up for election next week
— has been held by the Harry F.
Byrds, junior and senior, for fif-
ty years. In 1970, Harry Byrd
Jr., abandoned the Democratic
party because of his opposition
to its loyalty oath and became
the Senate’s only Independent.
Although he remains a member
of the Senate Democratic Cau-
cus for organizational matters,
he generally votes conser-
vatively and with the Republi-
cans.

The 67-year-old Senator

et Bap eee

 

shocked the state by announc-
ing last November 30 that he
wouldn’t seek re-election this
year. ‘‘Eighteen years is long
enough,”’ he said at the time.

Last November, Charles S.
Robb, son-in-law of former
President Lyndon B. Johnson,
was elected the state’s first
Democratic governor since
1969. His success in that contest
has raised speculation about a
possible role for him in national
Democratic affairs, including
talk that he is potential Vice-
Presidential choice in 1984.
Robb has called such conjec-
ture premature.

In the State Senate, Demo-
crats have a 31-9 advantage,
and in the State House of
Delegates, Republicans are out-
numbered 74-25, and there is
one Independent.

The Old Dominion is con-
sidered by many to be political-
ly conservative, although that
assumption was disputed by a
poll last month by the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch. That
state-wide survey showed the
majority of respondents to be in
favor of Federal legislation re-
quiring that owners of hand-
guns be licensed, for a new
Equal Rights Amendment, and
in favor of a freeze on deploy-
ment of additional nuclear
arms by the United States and
the Soviet Union.

Respondents opposed a con-
stitutional amendment to
outlaw abortions except when
the mother’s life is endangered
by pregnancy, and were against
tax credits for tuition payments
to private elementary and high
schools. However, the survey
showed that those polled were
in favor of at least two items on
the conservative agenda — the
death penalty and voluntary
prayer in public schools.

Senatorial Scramble

The Virginia Senate cam-
paign, one of thirty-three in the
nation this fall, has been called
by The New York Times ‘“‘what
may be the closest Senate race
in the country.”

NA a
Tuya Fe

4 \ hy
N \
\ Aras?

  
    

WAY, BE CONSTRUED AS A CHANGE OF 200 POLICY,

Republican Paul S. Trible,
first district U. S. Con-
gressman, is facing Democrat
Richard J. Davis, the state’s
Lieutenant Governor, in a
vicious battle which has been
fought largely in the media. The
$5 million campaign has been
characterized by backbiting
and accusations by both can-
didates.

The most recent verbal joust
was initiated by Davis last
Thursday in Portsmouth when
he said that Trible would be
“the senator who represents
Jerry Falwell,’ the television
evangelist and founder of Moral
Majority. Davis charged that
his opponent would be a ‘“‘sur-
rogate” for Falwell, who, he
continued, would not allow a
“democracy which permits all
people to have their own beliefs
without being told what to do,
when to do it, and where to do
it.” Davis added that his
backers should be prepared
“for a last-minute media blitz”’
by Falwell, who is ‘mobilizing
his flock and his substantial
financial resources to elect can-
didates backed by the Moral
Majority.”’

The statement prompted a
counterattack by Trible, who
said in Lynchburg the next day,
“This is a prime example of the
desperate tactics of my oppo-
nent.-Rev. Falwell and I have
not talked about the cam-
paign.’’ Falwell said Davis was
“attempting to create a straw
man to get the people’s minds
off the real issues.’’ Ronald
Godwin, executive vice presi-
dent of Moral Majority, said
that if Davis were saying the
political organization was pre-
paring a media blitz for Trible,
“He’s flatly lying.”’

Other issues, or pseudo-
issues, in the campaign have
been: Trible’s attendance
record in Congress, which
Davis charges has been poor
and has resulted in missed
votes on Pentagon appropria-

(continued on page 4)

The rules of life

By ALLEN ROBERTS
Special to The Phi

“An event has happened, upon which it is difficult to speak, and im-
possible to be silent.”

Edmund Burke, 1788

The arrest of six students for violation of Alcoholic Beverage
Control codes was closely followed by a directive from the Com-
monwealth’s attorney for local police to start arresting anyone
seen drinking in public. This action was described as ‘‘a surprise
attack’’ in last week’s Phi editorial, and as the first blow in a
“‘grudge-match” between students and local officials.

Most students cannot consider themselves members of both the
W&L community and the local citizenry. Dave Stevens, who is one
exception to this rule, wrote a letter that appeared in The Phi last
Thursday. Stevens concluded that ‘‘Arrest or death can change
one’s life, but action by the ABC officials may have prevented
recurrences that are unnecessary.”

If you are concerned enough to read this column, you must have
heard about the recent deaths of two University of Virginia
students in the U-Haul truck wreck and three VMI cadets and a
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College student on Route 11. You may
not be concerned enough, however, to recognize that neither of
these wrecks was an accident.

Webster defines an accident as “‘an event which proceeds from
an unknown cause, or is an unusual effect of a known cause.” Both
fatal wrecks were caused by a known problem — many students do
not understand how powerful and unpredictable the force is on the
other end of a steering wheel.

Most of us who do understand often forget in the haze of drunken-
ness. We can identify the cause, but the untimely deaths of students
like you and me is not an unusual consequence of that cause.

I have gotten wasted on Saturday nights and forgotten the
dangers, taking my short life into my driving hands. On Sunday
morning I have quaked with the fear that I will do it again.

It’s not as if I have not seen the hazards first-hand. In high school,
the four people closest to me narrowly escaped death in a car
wreck. Two of them were athletes who will never compete again.
But they are alive, and may yet live to know a parent’s anxiety.

Margaret N. Abbitt, Danny Lawless, Jim Bogosian, Stan Ross,
Christopher Meigs and Brian McKittrick were not so fortunate.
They will not swim at Goshen this spring or see next fall’s foliage on
the Blue Ridge Parkway. Their parents must bear the ultimate
loss, their friends the pain of a missing laugh. These are the wounds
of the survivors, the wounds that will never heal.

Enforcement of ABC regulations helps to prevent these deaths.
We are sorely deceived if we think local police get a thrill breaking
up parties and arresting incalcitrant students for drinking in
public. Nevertheless, they would rather perform these unpopular
duties than be the first to arrive at the scene of a fatal crash.

Though the law is not the only point of conflict between students
and the Lexington community, it is the one we should first address.
For ourselves and the people who care for us, we must accept
responsibility for our drinking habits. We must stifle our drunken
vanity and surrender the car keys to a sober friend. We must ease
up on the ‘“‘Kamikazes,’’ lest we inherit their history on the drive
home.

Phi Editor-in-Chief Todd Smith wrote last week that “‘we must
regulate ourselves and defend the privilege to do so.” This is a
privilege that I fear we must earn anew, for our record is weak and
our resolve unproven.

A century has passed since John Ruskin made this crucial obser-
vation:

“Government and cooperation are in all things the

laws of life; anarchy and competition the laws of

death.”

In 1982, let’s party . . .under the rules of life.

(The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all guest editorials. Opinions on this
page reflect the stand of the authors and not of this newspaper.)

Ring-tum Phi

P.O. Box 899, Lexington, Va. 24450

 

BI, 85 Ei E10 EBL eed rence Todd Smith
I ok i665 eb AAS 6 A ETIRREAS CFLS Gai s okies CA Steve Perry
PE ETT ee OEE eT rere Evans Attwell
UOT eee rea Tee Te ey eer ere ryy Teer ee John Cleghorn
ec rnrrrrrrrrr errr errr err rrr rer rere rr eee G. Bruce Potter
Pe NN 6 58k 0k ENN CLITORAL ATER B. Scott Tilley
Be PI 55 ii HRCA be BIS CR David Sprunt
PT oi. ch ie CERWIN a hdl s erat Ks VERON Ri Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Jeffery Lis, Robert Miller
Og ee rere reer ret re Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

Norma Ann Chattin, Barry Flemming, John Harrison
Andrew Hoppes, Nelson Patterson, Bill Roberts
Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler, Mike Stachura

I I i. 05-55 bc 066 8 00 1 AEE ON el Tom O’Brien
FN 6 ce OO COTE VOCE CaN eas Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Houston, Tim Mulraney, Jim Wood
ETN Te Tea Te CPI Trees er eee Serene Jim Wood
The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1982, Page 3

 

 

 

Whenever you walk past R.E. Lee Episcopal Church, there they are — the pre-schoolers — running
across your path, romping in leaves and all oblivious to midterms. These two take a break from the ac-
tion for refreshments. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

W&L hosts food services

A lot of students will be eating
high on the hog next week when
W&L hosts a three-day regional
conference of the National
Association of College and
University Food Services.

Jerry Darrell, food services
director, is coordinating the
event, which will be held Nov. 2
through Nov. 4.

Instead of simply feasting the
food service directors who will

attend, Darrell said he will use
his NACUFS budget and the
donations from local food
sellers to feed the students who
eat in the dining hall.

That means a “special event
dinner,’ and Tuesday the
theme will be “Election ’82,”
since statewide elections are
held that day.

Darrell’s menu
Senate Bean Soup,

includes
George

IFC hits SAE

The Judicial Board of the In-
terfraternity Council met Tues-
day evening with cadet leaders
from Virginia Military Institute
to discuss the rules surrounding
cadet attendance at W&L fra-
ternity parties.

Pat Mooney, secretary to the
IFC, called the talks ‘‘mean-
ingful”’ and said the cadets had
promised to remind the corps of
the VMI rule that no cadet may
enter a fraternity without ver-
bal or written permission from
a fraternity member.

The IFC judicial board also
punished Sigma Alpha Epsilon
with two weeks of social proba-

tion for receiving a police noise
violation.

Representatives of SAE have
said that the noise violation
came after several brothers in-
formally gathered and acciden-
tally played the stereo too loud.
Since there was no party, SAE
claimed that two weeks was too
much.

Mooney said SAE has appeal-
ed the decision to the Student
Affairs Committee on the
grounds that the IFC should be
able to sentence offenders with
less than two weeks, which is
now the SAC-mandated mini-
mum.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Make Thanksgiving
and Christmas

Reservations Now
BUY EARLY — SAVE!

 

# Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

WINTER SKI TRIPS
Call Now

CALL
463-7174

 

Washington Beef and Kidney
Pie, Whole Smoked Salmon and
Spoon Bread.

Participants in the NACUFS

conference will join students for
the meal in an effort to gauge
student response to the W&L
food service program.
’ Last year’s NACUFS con-
ference for this region was held
in the elegant setting of
Princeton University, a hard
act to follow, said Darrell. He
nevertheless expects success,
and said he hopes the students
enjoy the Tuesday event.

Who’s who at W&L

Thirty-one Washington and
Lee University students — 23
undergraduate seniors and
eight third-year law students —
have been included in the 1983
edition of ‘‘Who’s Who Among
Students in American Univer-
sities and Colleges.”’

Students are elected to
“‘Who’s Who’’ by a_ sub-
committee of the Executive
Committee. Selection is based
on academic achievement, ser-
vice to the community, leader-

 

Nakamichi Performance
For Under $300?

You’re Kidding!

 

We're not! Check out the new Nakamichi BX-1

It's less than $300, but it's Nakamichi all the way
Nakamichi, the reference standard, has incorporated
several of the advanced design features found in
their top-of-the-line $6000 decks into the BX-1

The result is unparalleled sonic performance & ease
of operation in a most affordable cassette deck

When compromise in music reproduction is not
acceptable, there is no alternative

T BaNakamichi

audiotronics

Grand Pavilion Roanoke, Virginio
(703) 774-5757

 

 

 

EC opposes
faculty plan

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

At its weekly Monday night
meeting, the Executive Com-
mittee spent nearly an hour and
a half discussing something
over which it has little if any
control. The subject was the
faculty’s proposed curriculum
requirements.

Basically, the changes in-
volve more specific distribution
requirements. As it stands, a
student must take 36 credits of
distribution work. The proposal
from the Faculty Executive
Committee would raise that
number to 53 for certain
students. Most of these students
would be those concentrating on
business, which prompted EC
President Bennett Ross to say
“I think this is a vendetta
against business majors.”’

After various discussions on
whether a foreign language is
necessary for a liberal arts
education and how much math
and science should be required,
Morgan Griffith suggested that
the EC ‘‘vote on the theory of
the proposal and not wallow in
the credits.”

The committee voted to urge
the faculty to maintain the cur-
rent distribution philosophy.

Senior Rep. John Vlahoplus
suggested that splitting English
and foreign languages into two
divisions might solve the pro-

ship in extracurricular ac-
tivities, and potential for the
future.

Outstanding students have
been honored in the annual
“‘Who’s Who’’ directory since it
was first published in 1934.

The Washington and Lee
seniors elected this year are
James Averett, James Bald-
win, Peter Baumgaertner, Scott
Bond, DeWitt Caruthers, Steven
Corbeille, Michael Drinkwater,
Mason Ellerbe, Frank Eppes,

blem of students not having ex-
posure to foreign languages
without “‘legislating’’ them into
specific courses.

Griffith, vice-president of the
EC, stated that the EC should
“leave the educating to the
educators.’’ The EC will discuss
specific recommendations to
the faculty at a meeting tonight
at 6:30. The faculty as a whole
will vote on these requirements
Monday.

Many undergraduate mem-
bers of the EC were upset be-
cause they were not invited to
hear Supreme Court Justice
Lewis Powell speak at the law
school last Monday. Conse-
quently, the committee voted to
send letters to President
Huntley and Law School Dean
Steinheimer.

“We need to register our
displeasure that Justice
Powell’s appearance was not
publicized on the undergrad-
uate campus,” Vlahoplus said.
The motion passed unanimous-
ly.

Pete Baumgaertner also re-
ported that the equipment in the
weight room had been repaired
and that the purchase of new
equipment was being con-
sidered.

“Coach Miller said that there
were ‘budgetary restrictions’ so
I’m not sure if they will get
more equipment,” Baumgaert-
ner commented.

in “82
James Falk Jr., Harry Feuers-
tein, Stephen Geary, Newton
Kendrick, Eric Nelson Jr.,
David Ridlon, Bennett Ross,
Christopher Schram, Jackson
Sharman III, Todd Smith,
Christopher Stokes, John
Vlahoplus, Bowen Woodruff and
Anthony Zaccagnini.

The third-year W&L law
Students elected are Michael
Bommarito, Gaines Cleveland,
Deborah Morgan Griffith,
Terry McKenney, Pamela
Ryan and Howard Wall III.

 

et

—

 

 

GRADUATE
Hate ee
A_ BUSINESS

William Heffernan, Dean of Administration will be on your
campus Monday, November 1, 1982 to speak with students
from all disciplines who are interested in the MBA. and

PH.D. degree programs. Twelve concentrations are offered
in the Business School plus joint degree programs with the
Schools of Architecture, Engineering, International Affairs,
Journalism, Law, Public Health, Social Work, and Teacher’s

College. For further details
please contact Career
Development & Planning.

COLUMBIA

UNIVERSITY’

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1982

An Angle of Vision

 

Election

(continued froin page 2)

tions bills, important to the
defense establishments of
Virginia to whom these are
economically vital; the unem-
ployment situation in Ports-
mouth when Davis was mayor
there, which Trible says
worsened considerably; and a
memo Trible circulated charg-
ing Davis representatives with
soliciting funds and showing TV
spots at a New York meeting of
labor’s Committee on Political
Education which Davis con-
tends was a ‘malicious
falsehood.”’

The substantive part of the
campaign has regarded the
economy, taxes, employment
and Social Security, with the
candidates hewing to the party
line fairly consistently.

Polls show the candidates
running virtually even, and
many analysts believe it is the
‘“‘undecided” voters who will
determine the election’s out-
come.

Congressional Clash

Republican Kevin Miller and
Democrat James Olin have con-
ducted an issues-oriented cam-
paign for the sixth Congres-
sional district, which includes
Rockbridge County. Until
recently, the race appeared to
be a toss-up, but some of
Miller’s support has eroded in
the last few days of the cam-
paign according to one poll.

The two are battling for the
seat of Republican M. Caldwell
Butler, who is retiring after
having served in the House for a
decade. Miller has served in the
Virginia House of Delegates for
two terms, and Olin is a retired
General Electric Company ex-
ecutive.

Last week, the marketing
research firm of Martin
Research Associates last week
released a poll of the Roanoke
Valley which showed Olin with
44 percent of the vote compared
to Miller’s 32 percent. Twenty-
four percent was undecided,
and the poll had a margin of er-
ror of plus or minus five per-
cent. Martin Research said it
conducted the poll as a public
service and that it wasn’t com-
missioned by any political
group.

Steve Yeaker, Miller’s cam-
paign manager admits the
results “roughly resemble
ours.’”’ He said, ‘‘Our polls show
(Miller) trailing a bit in the
Roanoke Area.’’ He added that

ALOHA WOK

463-9342

——=7™

|
eeey
ag

oe COUT iar,

he is confident Miller will win
because undecided voters ‘‘are
heading our way.” In an inter-
view with The Associated
Press, he concluded, ‘‘We look
forward to the end of the cam-
paign being a rather exciting
period.”

Skip Holcombe, Olin’s cam-
paign manager, told AP, “I
think we can win....I think the
‘stay the course’ theme has just
about worn extremely thin.”
Republicans have dominated
the sixth district for thirty
years.

The candidates have been
reflecting the views of their
respective parties in campaign
appearances, with Social
Security being one of the big-
gest issues.

Olin has had campaign help
from both Governor Robb and’
Lieutenant Governor Davis.
Miller has been seeking to iden-
tify himself closely with the
President, and Vice President
George Bush was expected to
make a campaign appearance
for him this week in Roanoke.
Incumbent Representative
Butler has also thown his full
support behind Miller.

Delegate Duel

Republican Vance Wilkins,
Jr., and Democrat Nanalou
Sauder are campaigning for the
24th District seat in the House of
Delegates. Because of.
redistricting, the term will be
an interim one of only one year.

Wilkins’ a businessman who
was elected to the House of
Delegates before, has been en-
dorsed by the Rockbridge Re-
publican Committee. Sauder, a
member of the Rockbridge

County. Board of Supervisors, is
a teacher in the Lexington
public schools.

The two met recently at the
Rockbridge County Courthouse
in an exchange sponsored by
the League of Women Voters.
At that meeting, Wilkins said
the most urgent problem in Vir-
ginia is crime and the lack of
tough sentences, and Sauder
said it was the economic situa-
tion and the need for economic
development.

Constitutional Questions

On November 2, Virginia
voters will decide whether or
not three amendments will be
added to the state Constitution.
The ballot questions are:

1) Shall the Constitution of
Virginia be amended to change
the information required to
register to vote by deleting
marital status and occupation
and by including any prior legal
name? ;

2) Shall Section 1 of Article II
of the Constitution of Virginia
be amended to authorize restor-
ation of civil rights to felons as
may be provided by general
law? ;

3) Shall the Constitution of
Virginia be amended to author-
ize the General Assembly to
limit the introduction of legisla-
tion in the odd-year short ses-
sion?

The first two appear likely to
be ratified while ratification of
the third by voters remains in
doubt. The complete text of
each of the amendments will be
at the polling places, and is
posted at the Courthouse at the

corner of Washington and Main

streets in Lexington.

Alcohol Awareness Week

Monday, Nov. 1
“Driving Under the Influence”’
4 p.m. Eight subjects begin drinking, room 114 of the Student

Center.

6:30 p.m. — Testing of subjects begins, room 114.

8 p.m, —

‘“‘Brand X’’: Beer Identification Contest. Proof of age re-

quired to participate. In the Cockpit.
Wednesday, Nov. 3

7:15 p.m. — ‘Hops and the Hearthside’’:

Home Beer-brewing

Demonstration with Prof. George Whitney and Lexington City
Manager John Doane. Recipes and tasting available. Proof of age

required for latter. The Cockpit.

8 p.m. — “Yes, Virginia, there is life after alcohol!’ Non-alcoholic

drinks demonstration. Proof of age not required. The Cockpit.
Thursday, Nov. 4

8 p.m. — ‘‘W&L Punch Bowl.” Alcohol Trivia Quiz Program: W&L

Young Democrats vs. W&L College Republicans.

8— 10 p.m. — Jerry’s ‘‘Happy Hour Sans Spirits.”’ Half-price on the

Cockpit’s famous super sandwich and all non-alcoholic beverages.

In the Cockpit.

Chinese, Polynesian, and

American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 

| Sun. Buffet 12- 2:30-$4.25]

“Carry-out Available’

Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10
Closed Saturday Luncheon

 

 

V ARNER |
& POLE

115 South Main Street

For your extra
ee farsinre.

'
"
'
'
,
)
7
,
}
y
N

Should CONTACT
and FOCUS team up?

By BETTY MUNGER

I feel as if Iam being recycled.

When CONTACT was launched some fifteen years ago, it concen-
trated on one important theme for each year. Once it was political
power. Another time the focus was on energy. The speakers ap-
peared in quick succession over a period of two or three weeks.
There was a fine air of excitement in the middle of each winter and
we packed Lee Chapel for the variety of lively talks and discus-
sions. Only a real blizzard could keep us or the speaker away.

Then it began to change. The change in the calendar reduced
winter term to twelve weeks. Students found the compressed CON-
TACT weeks ate up too much study time. So CONTACT was thinned
out over the whole year. Too, speakers began to be available only
through agencies, at higher and higher prices with speeches that
were seldom keyed to any chosen theme.

. Result: CONTACT is now a famous-name series with no specific
purpose.

Now a new group has been formed, FOCUS, which proposes to
concentrate on a particular crucial issue. This is where I came in
fifteen years ago and it has set me to wondering! Wondering,
“What if the two groups pooled their resources for a really big
famous-name symposium or debate on a critical issue?” It would
cost money, for sure, and it could not be done by just flipping
through speakers bureaus’ face books. It would take hard careful
planning., pulling out all the stops with publicity on an area-wide
basis. Possible subjects: nuclear waste; genetic engineering; the
growing gap between the haves and the have nots on this planet;
nuclear armament build-up. Over to you!

(Betty Munger is manager of the Washington and Lee bookstore.)

Calendar

Thursday, Oct. 28
Registration for Winter Term.
5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: ‘‘The Role of Acetylcholine as a
Neurotransmitter,’’ Dewey S. Bailey, ’83. Howe 401, preceded by
tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402.
8 p.m. — PLAY: “A Man For All Seasons.”” The Troubadour
Theatre.

 

Friday, Oct. 29
8 p.m. — PLAY: “‘A Man For All Seasons.” Troubadour Theatre.

Monday, Nov. 1
Degree applications for June graduates due.
IN THE GALLERY: (through Nov. 19) Prints by Ann Chenowith.
DuPont Gallery.
4:30 p.m. — Faculty Meeting; Northen Auditorium.

Tuesday, Nov. 2
Election Day
3 p.m. — Soccer: Generals vs. Va. Wesleyan. Wilson Field.
7 &9p.m. — Film: ‘‘M’’ directed by Fritz Lang. Reid Hall, Room
203.

Wednesday, Nov. 3
5 p.m. — Lecture: ‘Frederick Law Olmstead: The American
Tradition in Landscape Architecture.”’ Dr. Rubin Raimey, head of
the department of landscape architecture at University of Virginia.
Parmly 305. Sponsored by the departments of biology, geology, and
fine arts. Public invited.

yyy gg ggg
Snowshoe, W.Va.
and R-MWC

— For only $100 you get two days of skiing, 2
nights lodging in Summit Condos, atop the
mountain and meals.

— Limited space available.

— Nov. 10 deadline for $50 deposit.

Contact: Meg Kleckner or Rebecca Cox
804-846-7392 ext. 235

Wiad A agga eggs P getty gt gg gt

hi=

Zin
D ciiitaciiibidilinines
The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1982, Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

IMAGINE! | THOUGHT ]
HAD MET EVERYONE
HERE FROM ATLANTA.

THAT'S AN INTENSE
HALLOWEEN CoSTUME,
PAMELA!

alk
ITS No COSTUME, MINK!)

 

er

 

 

i
&

NE
5

 

 

 

 

, ca - N Vj Z| iV A ©
EE, & G Uy, ZoV/ Zar

g | 0 A , es (\ l On Nf 0 e LE Z 5 Z N nee Y/ eo TED
SMITH 4, ‘, ns, : had ie iu BM by, Hic Wyn’ "iia MV M fy i

0% mM 4, Pay CU a z am RY Ujpfit/ Lh

UY RUN “a Yc Ly Wy teenage HN GEO" \ Yt WW“ Niigy “at Lz
Major curriculum change
who teach in these areas. Ac- analytical tools it provides for © major would have a general these proposals and to report to

(continued from page 1)

ticipating in our foreign study
programs. Entering students
who demonstrate, on the place-
ment tests administered by the
language departments, that
they are qualified to enter third-
year language courses would be
exempt from a_ foreign
languagerequirement.

D. Our present distribution
system places courses in
English alongside the foreign
languages and permits the stu-
dent to select more or less at
random. Such an arrangement
encourages him to believe that
elementary courses in a foreign
language are somehow inter-
changeable with courses in
literature. We believe it is im-
portant to make clear that
literature is a distinct field of
creative and critical endeavor,
that both language and litera-
ture are worthy of study in their
own right and not as substitutes
for each other. We recommend
that the faculty require two
courses (6 credits) in literature
from any of the following; Eng-
lish courses numbered 200 or
above, comparative literature,
and foreign literature at the
third-year level or above.

E. The fine arts are among
the most exalted products of
man’s creative impulse, history
remains one of the most fre-
quent ways in which Western
man explains himself; philoso-
phy is the oldest and, in a sense,
most central academic
discipline, and religion is the
expression of some of
mankind’s earliest and deepest
concerns. Although each of
these areas deserves equal pro-
minence with the other disci-
plines as worthy of the student’s
attention, some of the most em-
phatic calls for preserving the
broadest range of student
choice emanate from faculty

iin

AST LEX

BEER SPECIAL
BUD 12 PACKS.......94. 59

PEE EES ii Le ht tA AAA buh Aaudba

 

he se it sd

cordingly we recommend that
the faculty require 12 credits
chosen from at least two of the
following three areas: fine arts,
history, and philosophy and/or
religion.

II. In the sciences (natural
and social) and mathematics,

ithe Committee recommends an

increase in the minimum re-
quirements from 12 to 19
credits.

A. From the natural sciences
and mathematics we recom-
mend a total of 10 credits: one
course in a laboratory science
(4 credits), one course in

mathematics (3 credits), and ©

the other 3 credits in either
science or mathematics.

(1) In 1981, about one-third of
our degree applicants offered
no laboratory science for
degree credit. Since our last
curriculum revision, biology,
chemistry, and physics have
added introductory courses
designed for students not plan-
ning to continue in a scientific
field. Taking as a given the fun-
damental role of science in
modern culture, and believing
that even the student who does
not intend to pursue science can
nonetheless benefit from con-
ducting scientific experiments,
we recommend that the faculty
require at least one 4-credit
course in a laboratory science.

(2) In 1981, 23 percent of our
degree applicants offered no
mathematics for degree credit.
Yet many faculty stress the im-
portance of calculus as a major
achievement of the human in-
tellect and the gateway to ad-
vanced mathematical study,
and others hold that statistics
and computer science are
useful alternatives for many
students. In either case mathe-
matics is a unique disci-
pline worthy of study for its
own sake as well as for the
powerful descriptive and

OS is is fi ff fh ee a

  

understanding the modern
world. We recommend that, of
the 10 required credits in
science and mathematics, a
minimum of 3 credits be in
mathematics provided that the
mathematics department of-
fers, at the entry level, alter-
natives to calculus.

B. Amidst the swirl of public
debate, the social sciences play
a key role in defining policy
issues as well as in suggesting
solutions to problems. We
recommend a requirement in
the social sciences of 9 credits
from at least two of the follow-

ing: economics, politics,
psychology, and sociology/an-
thropology.

III. We recommend retention
of the 1-credit requirement in
physical education.

IV. Since our proposals would
assure breadth in the student’s
general education, we recom-
mend that courses in his major
be counted as fulfilling part of
his general education re-
quirements. Thus, for example,
a physics major could count 4
credits in physics and 6 credits
in mathematics toward both his
major and his general educa-
tion requirements, and if he
were very well prepared in
English and foreign languages
he would have a total general
education requirement of only
28 credits (a maximum of 43 if
he were less well prepared). A
history major could count 9
credits in history for both his
major and his general educa-
tion requirement, and if he were
very well prepared in English
and foreign languages he would
have a total general education
requirement of only 29 credits
(a maximum of 44 if he were
less well prepared). A student
with two majors could count
courses in both his majors for
general education; thus a well-
prepared physics and history

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

education requirement of only
19 credits — 6 in literature; 3 in
fine arts, philosophy, or
religion; 9 in the social
sciences; and 1 in physical
education. Overall, these pro-
posals would permit the best
student more free electives
than he has under our present
system. Advanced placement
credit, of course, would fulfill
general education require-
ments just as it now meets
distribution requirements.

V. The Committee has also
heard suggestions from some
faculty that certain courses in
one department might be con-
sidered as falling in a general
education category different
from that under which the
department’s courses would
normally fall. For example,
there may be courses outside
the English department that so
heavily stress expository
writing as to meet the composi-
tion requirement. Therefore we
recommend the following pro-
cedure: Departments would
designate the general education
category, if any, under which
each of their courses belongs (a
department could declare, if it
wished, that none of its courses
belong under general educa-
tion); such designations would
be subject to approval of the
faculty upon recommendation
by the Committee on Courses
and Degrees.

VI. The report from the ‘‘Lilly
Group” of last summer was the
beginning point for much of the
Committee’s discussion.
Because we simply ran out of
time, we were unable to deal
with two of the Group’s most
important suggestions: the
creation of a general honors
program, and the institution of
interdisciplinary ‘‘capstone’’
courses. We strongly recom-
mend the appointment of
another committee to examine

the faculty by May, 1983.

In conclusion, the Committee
wishes to stress that our conver-
sations with the faculty over the
last few months have recon-
firmed our view that one of the
strengths of Washington and
Lee is the dedication of its facul-
ty to the task of educating the
young. When faculty most
strongly disagree with one
another it is most often over
how and what to teach, not
whether and why. The Commit-
tee recognizes that our conclu-
sions finally rest upon personal
judgment and that some faculty
members, for good reasons and
in good faith, will dissent from
them. We also recognize that
there may be ways to meet the
various interests of the faculty
other than those we have
recommended, and we invite
the faculty to suggest alter-
natives. We hope that our
recommendations will stimu-
late discussion among faculty
and students, for we believe
that such discussion is healthy
and constructive when con-
ducted in an atmosphere of
mutual respect for the right to
differ and of recognition that we
are all talking about different
means of achieving the same
end.

The Committee realizes that
no set of requirements can
assure that any student will
emerge as a_ well-educated
adult, but we do believe that re-
quirements can expand that
rare opportunity which a liberal
arts education affords, namely,
the opportunity, for a_ brief
time, to pursue knowledge pure-
ly for its own sake and to exer-
cise the intellect solely for the
pleasure of doing so. In the last
analysis, our various dis-
ciplines are different means to
that same end — an end which,
in unpredictable ways, benefits
the student throughout his life.

FLORIST &
GREENERY

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9152

 
 

Re
he
a

<.

EGE

Poy 2

poe

a

Sa
A

 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1982

HOURS:

Mon.-Sat. 9am-lam

Sun. 10am-lam

 

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va. 463-3338

 

Sports

 

Water polo dominates play,
to host State Championships

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Sports Writer

The Washington and Lee
water polo team showed what it
was made of last weekend as
it continued its dominance over
the Southern League. The Gen-
erals tallied four more vic-
tories over the weekend,
stretching their unbeaten
league record to eight, and their
overall record to 19-6.

It was another weekend of
consistency, as the Generals
literally outclassed their com-
petition. In fact, the only sur-
prise to Coach Page Remillard
came when he looked up into the
gallery. ‘I was most ap-
preciative and pleased with the
overflowing crowds,’’ said
Remillard.

The crowds were treated to
wins over Virginia Common-
wealth (13-4), Hampden-Sydney
(17-6), . UNC-at-Wilmington
(14-6) and an 8-5 triumph over
league-rival Richmond. In the

Two overtime goals by Rad-
ford University downed Wash-
ington and Lee’s soccer team
Saturday morning on Wilson
Field by a score of 3-1.

The Generals’ one regulation
goal was scored by freshman
Keith Scott, who was named
player-of-the-game.

The loss dropped Washington
and Lee’s record to 5-3-2 and
knocked them out of the running
for a berth in the NCAA play-
offs, according to head coach
Rolf Piranian.

Piranian blamed the Gener-

 

INTERNATIONAL
CAREER?

 

A representative
will be on the campus

TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 2, 1982

to discuss qualifications for
advanced study at
AMERICAN
GRADUATE SCHOOL
and job opportunities
in the field of

INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT

Interviews may be scheduled at

CAREER DEVELOPMENT
& PLACEMENT

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Thunderbird Campus
Glendale, Arizona 85306

 

 

 

Richmond contest, which for
fans was literally standing
room only, W&L fell behind and
trailed 2-1 at the half.

‘“‘We were tense and we tried
too hard in the first half,”’ noted
Remillard. This overintensity
resulted in some poor shot

selection and an inability to con-
vert on man-advantage situa-
tion. “It was just a matter of
waiting for the gears to mesh,”
asserted the Generals’ mentor,
“very pleased with team
defense.” The team’s mental
(continued on page 7)

Injuries hurt fall tennis

By DAVID STUART
Phi Staff Writer

It is more than a challenge to
beat a Division I team when the
Generals’ tennis squad is
healthy. When injuries and ill
fate befall half of the starting
six players, one can call it
doom.

So was the case Saturday, as
George Washington and Ohio
Universities beat W&L 9-0 and
7-2 respectively, in the fall
season finale.

Craig Cannon, No. 1, was
forced to retire because of

Radford takes 3-1 OT win

als’ loss on the fact that they
were coming off a tough game,
a 1-1 tie, with Lynchburg only a
few days before.

Senior Brad Poorman leads
the team in scoring with 21
points, and freshman Bill
Holmes is second with 12 points.

Following the annual United
Way game yesterday at VMI,
the Generals will close out their
season with home matches
against Catholic University
Saturday at 2 p.m. and Virginia
Wesleyan next Tuesday at 3
p.m.

plus more.

or call;

 

cramps in the second set of his
match against Ohio.

Charlie Kalocsay, No. 3 last
year, sprained his ankle over
the summer and could not play
during the fall season. Anthony
Frens, a bright freshman pro-
spect, pulled two back muscles
earlier this season, and saw no
action Saturday.

The fall tennis season is a
testing ground for the spring
season. In spite of Saturday’s
not unexpected double drubbing
and the troublesome injuries,
varsity tennis coach Gary
Franke is encouraged.

The “‘new kids (freshmen An-
thony Frens, Scott Adams, Jim
Culnane and first-year-playing
sophomore Chip Archer) are
making contributions,” says
Franke. As a result, Franke
believes: this year’s team is
“stronger,” and ‘thas more dep-
th’’ than last years’.

Presently, there are nine can-
didates jostling for eight posi-
tions on the spring roster. The
ladder is by’ no means fixed,
with Kolocsay and Frens in-
jured. But Saturday’s top seven
were: Cannon, Steve Denny,
Andy Haring, Jim Irwin, Ar-
cher, Adams and Culnane, in
that order.

YOU CAN WAIT YEARS FOR
A JOB WITH RESPONSIBILITY,
OR YOU CAN GET
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE NAVY
NOW.

A civilian job with responsibility may take years to ob-
tain, even with a college degree. But if you meet Navy
standards, after four months of Officer Candidate
School (OCS), you can become a Navy officer. And that
means lots of responsibility, a good salary and fringe
benefits, including travel, post-graduate educational
opportunities, 30 days’ paid vacation earned annually,

If you’re getting your degree now, contact your col-
lege Placement Office to find out when a Navy
Representative will be on campus. Send your resume

Management Opportunities
Navy Recruiting District \
8545 Maylord Drive
Richmond, Virginia 23229
(804) 270-3101

NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.
The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1982, Page 7

Sa BRS el ee ANI IE AP RN CR SAN EI RACY REESE SB iLL E ET SRE ALR E PAERE RE SEH I ES RAL SE
W&L commits six turnovers

 

Sewanee comes from behind for 21-20 victory

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

The University of the South
put 14 fourth-quarter points on
the board to erase a 20-7
Washington and Lee halftime
lead, and beat the Generals
21-20 in a non-conference foot-
ball game at Wilson Field
Saturday.

The loss dropped W&L to 3-3
overall. The University of the
South, located in Sewanee,
Tenn., raised their mark to 5-2.

The first half was probably
the best half the team has
played this season. W&L coach
Gary Fallon stated, ‘‘point
wise,”’ it was their best offen-
sive performance for a half.

In the second half though, six
turnovers plagued the Gener-
als. Sewanee converted two of
the turnovers into touchdowns.

“Errors stand out more in
close games,” observed Fallon.
“I don’t want these guys to
think they personally lost the
game. We try to guard against
pointing fingers: We’ve got to
learn from what’s happened,”
he said.

W&L used a wide-open of-
fense the first time they touched
the ball to march quickly down
the field. Sophomore quarter-
back John Thompson com-
pleted six of seven passes dur-
ing the drive and senior Chris
Cavalline completed a 25-yard
halfback option pass to Jerry
Thompson. Sewanee’s defense
stiffened inside the 20, though,
and W&L had to settle for Bill
Devine’s 27-yard field goal at
9:31 of the first quarter.

“We tried to keep them off
balance. We’re not known for
our throwing. But we had some
success with it, so we kept on
throwing,” Fallon said.

Sewanee used their own im-
pressive passing attack to drive
to a first-down-and-goal situa-
tion on their first possession.
However, W&L’s’ defense
mounted a classic goal line
stand and kept Sewanee off the
scoreboard.

“{ think our defense is the
kind that once they get a little
success they get confident,”
commented Fallon on the first
of two superb goal line stands.
‘You can’t be afraid of
challenges. You’ve got to say I
hope they come at me,” Fallon
noted.

Sewanee did get on the
scoreboard late in the first
quarter. Tim Tenhet tossed a 7-
yard touchdown pass to David
Duke with 42 seconds left in the
quarter to give Sewanee a 7-3
lead.

W&L quickly regained the
lead thanks to some alert
special teams play. Sophomore
David Sizemore recovered a
fumbled punt for W&L at the
Sewanee 22 yard line. Three
plays later freshman fullback
Frank Surface rumbled 14
yards up the middle for a W&L
touchdown. The extra point was
blocked, but W&L still led 9-7,

W&L scored on their next
possession as well. Using a mix-
ture of passes and runs, the
Generals covered 70 yards with
Chris Cavalline finishing the
drive with a one-yard touch-
down drive at 1:39 in the second
quarter. John Thompson passed
to Jerry Thompson for a two
point conversion and a 17-7 lead.

Only 52 seconds later W&L
got the ball back when senior
defensive back Gene Fellin
recovered a fumble at the
Sewanee 28 yard line. A 17-yard
pass from Thompson to senior
Phil Hrabar got the Generals in-
to field-goal range, and Devine
nailed a 22-yarder as time ex-
pired.

After a _ scoreless third
quarter, Sewanee began its
comeback. The Tigers in-
tercepted a pass at the W&L 34
and scored a few plays later on
a 6-yard lob to David Duke with
10:25 left in the game. The extra

point put Sewanee within six
points of W&L at 20-14.

A few minutes later Sewanee
had driven inside the W&L 10-
yard line again. Once more the
W&L defense came through
with a goal line stand to
preserve the lead temporarily.

Moments later Sewanee in-
tercepted a W&L pass at the
Generals’ 23-yard line. This
time the defense could not hold,
and Bob Rodderberry scored on
a 9-yard sweep. Phil Campbell’s
extra point gave Sewanee its
21-20 margin of victory.

W&L had a couple of shots at
pulling it out, but time ran out
with the Generals in possession
at midfield. With less than a
minute to go, a long pass to
Chris Cavalline was broken up
at the last second by several
Sewanee defensive backs.

Next week the Generals finish
their Old Dominion Athletic
Conference season at Bridge-

Paced by McBryde,

W&L improves to 8-1

Junior Angus McBryde ran
Washington and Lee’s 8000-
meter course in a time of 27:19
to pace the Generals’ cross-
country team to victories over
Old Dominion Conference foe
Bridgewater and also West
Virginia Tech.

McBryde’s time was 11
seconds better than that of the
second place finisher, and
sophomore Frank Pittman
placed third for the Generals in
a clocking of 27:31.

Senior John Kelafant finished
sixth, junior Paul Chapman
seventh, and freshman Bob
Glenn ninth to round out the
Generals’ top five.

Washington and Lee ac-
cumulated 26 points to Bridge-

water’s 39 and West Virginia
Tech’s 67. The Generals overall
dual meet record is now 8-1.

The win by McBryde marked
the fourth time in five races this
season that the junior has led
the team.

On Saturday, the Generals
will travel to Lynchburg to face
Eastern Mennonite College,
Hampden-Sydney College and
Lynchburg. Washington and
Lee finished four points behind
Lynchburg at the Virginia State
Division II and III Champion-
ships two weeks ago. ’ |

Next weekend, the Generals |
will host seven teams in the |
ODAC Championships over |
W&L’s course.

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 aii , |

| @ Shenandoah Office Supplies

Help For All Your Office Needs

‘“‘We order”’

1 Old Main Street

N Lexington, Va. 24450 HELEN DUKE
(703) 463-4062 TED DUKE
er ee eee ee

 

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

|

 

TER MCA am lic

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and - ©

Garlic Bread you can eat for

Oh
ES

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

BLT

PHONE 463-7000

 

\

 

water College. W&L must win
the game to finish 4-1 in the
league and maintain a slim
chance of winning the ODAC ti-
tle.

Bridgewater stands 1-5
overall and 1-2 in the league go-
ing into the contest. Last year
W&L beat the Eagles 30-0 in
Lexington.

Despite Bridgewater’s
record, Coach Fallon thinks it is

a dangerous team. “They’re a
much better football team they
were last year. They’re a
better defensive team,” he
stated.

Fallon pointed out that
Bridgewater is dangerous of-
fensively also. They scored 21
points in the first half last week
against Emory & Henry and
they also have a fine freshman
quarterback.

 

Water polo

(continued from page 6)
and mesh they did as the Gener-
als roared back for the victory,
outscoring Richmond 7-3 in the
second half.

Remillard cited senior Erik
Peterson and junior Matt
Ravencraft as leaders in last
week’s four wins. He was also
toughness is progressively im-
proving as well.

        

Little

 

 

NT eee Nl fel ctl

uccdaus

IN

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

Big
Band

November 2

 

 

"It's The Place To Be’

W&L continues its march to
the Eastern Championships,
where Remillard is looking for
a seeding among the top six
teams. This weekend the Gener-
als host the Virginia State
Championships. Coach Remil-
lard expects his team to be
playing in Sunday’s champion-
ship game, where they will pro-
bably face Richmond again.

 

   

  

 

Te ee ee et ee A Dt ta et nt at NT ee a ee De eS et Anne

 

 

 

a a

 

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1982

PALMS Opera house |

UESDAY NITE! _ uring

SUPERB MEXICAN FOOD — GIVE IT A TRY! iene
11 You Can Eat x x *3.99 «x Come with

a hy

eee
ED

THURSDAY (the 28th)

a Chapel Hill’s Fi
STEPS iss Tie This F ey

EEOC

aN The 0
SATURDAY James

YT es

WIDE SCREEN TV

Maa) Vy
at
3-6

Casablanca; Star Wars;
Butch Cassidy ;
Godfather ;

Cuckoo’s Nest;

Maltese Falcon;

And Many,

Many

More!!!

 

N CORNER!!! NELSON & JEFFERSON
  

VOLUME 82

Jobs

elude
orads

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi Staff Writer
“Need a job, kid? Tough
luck.”’

That is what a recent cam- -

paign poster said, urging the
electorate to vote for a change
in federal policies. The slogan
plays on what is becoming the
dominant concern for many
Americans and many W&L
students —- unemployment.

The Gallup Poll reported in
March that while inflation re-
mains the number one problem
in the eyes of the American
public, unemployment worries
are rising fast. The proportion
of people surveyed who cited
unemployment as the most im-
portant national problem, in-
creased from eight percent one
year ago to 28 percent in March.

Such perceptions of unem-
ployment are not unwarranted.
Last month, President Reagan
announced that the national
level of unemployment had
risen to 10.1 percent. In July
1981 the unemployment rate
was seven percent. But that is
for the total work force.

What are the prospects for the
typical Washington and Lee stu-
dent graduating in 1983? ‘‘It ap-
pears that we are headed for a
tight year, that there may not
be as many jobs as we had
hoped,’’ Michael A. Cappeto,
Director of the Office of Career
Development and Placement,
said last week.

Cappeto is the man to see on
campus about finding a job. The
Placement Office organizes and
conducts workshops on job
hunting techniques, and invites

(continued on page 6)

 

Inside

 

Running for
Coach Lord

.... page 7
University
Federation
blossoms

.... page 6
The
curriculum
debate

.... page 4,5

NUMBER 9

Ring-tum Phi”

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia November 4, 1982

 
 
 

se Cc

At Saturday’s ROTC

 

field training exercise, Glenn Drake
(center) shows Tye Siedule how to apply green facial camoflage to

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERS|EX
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 
  

i
é

Robert Miller. For related story, see page 6. (ROTC photo by Henry
Dewing)

 

Analysis
Kirby probe examines curious record

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor

After a delay for the licensing of the investigator, the investiga-
tion into alleged misconduct by police chief James Kirby is under-
way.

The investigator named by the city, Leonard M. “Bucky”
Walters, was forced by the State of Virginia to obtain a license to
perform the investigation. The acquisition of this license delayed
the investigation two weeks, Mayor Charles Phillips said.

The investigation of Police Chief Kirby, who has put himself on
administrative leave, follows 11 previous criminal trials of Lex-
ington police officers in connection with a theft ring that operated
in Lexington throughout the seventies. With the resignation of
former Lexington officer James Colbert last week, all 13 of the of-
ficers originally indicted last spring are now no longer with the
force.

The investigation of that theft ring, made by Virginia State Police
Investigators Tex Chapman and Louis Layne, raised questions
relating to the police chief, who was not one of the 13 originally in-
dicted. The investigatien will consider the extent of Kirby’s
knowledge of crimes committed by officers. It will also consider
the possibility that the chief himself committed crimes.

Several references made in the statements of other officers when
questioned by the State police investigators imply that Kirby was
aware of the thefts. Kirby has denied any knowledge of the theft
ring during his six years as chief.

Although these references cannot be used as evidence in a court
of law, they demand an exploration into the possibility of such
knowledge of involvement on Kirby’s part in order that the city of
Lexington can be assured of the chief’s innocence.

One of the fundamental issues of the investigation should be the
determination of how Chief Kirby could have supervised and
managed the police department without discovering the theft ring.

Although the Lexington police force never exceeded 20 members,
statements in the public record suggest that Chief Kirby ran the
department loosely, rarely keeping in touch with the force as a col-
lective group. Former State Trooper and convicted conspirator
Marvin Hamilton, who served on the Lexington police force be-
tween 1972 and 1981, described Kirby’s management methods to
State Police investigators: “He didn’t like departmental
meetings....He never liked to talk to more than one person at a
time.”’

Other officers said in the record that the chief ignored allegations
they made of crimes within the department. Former Trooper
Hamilton stated, ‘‘I remember bringing a lot of stuff to his atten-
tion, but specifics I don’t remember. Everytime you get the same
answer: ‘You gotta have proof,’ or something to that effect.”

Former Officer Jack Purvis, convicted of conspiracy, also
answered police investigators’ questions about management:
“Kirby, if you went to him to make an allegation like that, he would
get mad at you. He didn’t like to do that. Lots of times you could tell
Kirby and later he would say you didn’t tell him.”’

Officer Donald Stubblefield explained to the State Investigators
that when he joined the force in 1979, he was placed on the late shift
because he was a new man. He said he was warned by another of-
ficer that he should not become too reliant on other units for backup
to stop a fight requiring many officers. Stubblefield’s fear was that
an officer might be busy committing a crime and not be available
for backup.

Stubblefield stated, ‘“When I got landed on this shift, seemed like
no one wanted on it. And you know, I was new man, so that’s where
I got placed....And like I say, they told me not to be in a hurry to go
to a fight, because they were slow to back you up, if you get in
there and get hurt. And like, I say, that it had been rumored that
they, you know, do take stuff.”

The investigation into the police chief must determine how a
young rookie patrolman could have learned so quickly of the theft
ring without the chief himself stumbling upon evidence over a six
year period.

Hamilton, in his testimony, describes a graft system that stretch-
es throughout the force, as far as the office of chief. Other
references made in Hamilton’s testimony suggest that Kirby might
have had a deeper criminal involvment than simply ignoring the
facts.

Hamilton recalls, in his statement, a conversation with Purvis
concerning the theft of a lawn mower. Hamilton, who had stolen the
mower, recalled considering whether he should have gone to the
chief with a confession. Hamilton then quoted Purvis as saying
‘Well the chief even, you know, gets stuff you know, if he needs it.”’

After asking for an explanation from Purvis, Hamilton said in his
testimony: ‘‘I don’t think he implied that the chief actually picked
it up but he (Purvis) said, like, the chief needed some fertilizer or
something, the co-op kept these one hundred pound bags and stuff

(continued on page 6)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982

Phi looks up
thanks to staff

By TODD SMITH
Phi Editor-in-Chief

Moving into the second half of the Fall term, the
Ring-tum Phi draws back and makes some observa-
tions. So far, several glorious ideas have failed. It has
been difficult getting columnists for the Phi, and the
Phi Literary Supplement seems comatose in the
absence of writer interest. The Phi has been unsuc-
cessful in establishing beats because of the lack of
reporters. Problems with the U.S. Postal Service and
people who horde Phi’s have tangled our circulation.

But this bad news is far outweighed by the good.
September ad sales were twice as much as the year
before. This year’s Phi has mostly been 12 pages
long, compared to 8 pages last year. This is due to the
good work of our business staff under Steve Perry.

Senior reporters like Rick Swagler and Tom Baker
have made invaluable contributions. Features have
made the Phi readable again, due in large measure to
Features Editor B. Scott Tilley. Freshman Mike Allen
has proved himself to be fast, accurate and ir-
replaceable for the Phi’s news coverage. And
freshman Nelson Patterson has already built up a
loyal readership with his personality profiles.

One of our hardest workers is David Sprunt, a
sophomore. As head photographer, he makes sure the
photographs are taken and then sacrifices his
Wednesdays to get them printed. What a guy.

A good newspaper tries new things, and this year
we are trying to rotate the news editorship. The job is
difficult and thankless; it requires making sure
everyone turns in what they’re supposed to, and then
writing something yourself. By rotating, I hope to
keep senior reporters from getting burned out.
Therefore, senior Bill Roberts steps in as John
Cleghorn steps over to newswriting. Cleghorn han-
dled the job during the most difficult part of the year,
all the while covering the biggest stories of the year:
ABC crackdown, the VMI wreck and police depart-
ment corruption trials. Cleghorn was asked to be the
backbone of the newspaper, and performed well. He
continues at the Phi writing news. Bill Roberts has a
talent for localizing issues of national importance to
our campus. He brings to the news editorship profes-
sionalism and thoroughness.

There are other changes in the works. Sports Editor
G. Bruce Potter is moving to news reporting. Lee
Nichols, a senior, will replace him. Mike Stachura
will serve as Assistant Sports Editor. We could not be
more pleased with this arrangement.

There is still room for your participation in The Phi.
Those with skills in reporting, photography, layout or
business, and those with the enthusiasm to pick up
those skills, should come to Thursday staff meetings,
which meet at 6:30 in room 129 of Davis Dorm. Or con-
tact me at 463-9306.

Thanks for bearing with me through this article, but
the people I have named, and many more, deserve
immense credit for turning this newspaper around.
There is no more difficult thing in the world than try-
ing to be creative and accurate at once, and doing it
under deadline pressure. But these few, these happy
few, this band of brothers, are doing exactly that.

eK! No HELP:

 

No! PLEASE !

    
  
  
   
   

\ aN MY OWN
NAN

wey To

to¥

NSE.

omy rr
f

 

 

Dean outlines ABC laws

By LEWIS G. JOHN
W&L Dean of Students

As part of Alcohol Awareness
Week, every Washington and
Lee student should make a con-
certed effort to become familiar
with applicable state law and
ABC regulations concerning the
possession, sale, and consump-
tion of alcoholic beverages in
Virginia.

It is important to keep in
mind that students are subject
to enforcement of the law, as
are all other citizens, and that
Washington and Lee cannot and
will not protect them from its
application.

Minimum Age Requirements

If you are under 18, it is
against the law for you to buy,
drink or possess any beer, wine,
or other alcoholic beverage. If
you are 18, you may purchase
beer on premises for on-
premises consumption in a
licensed establishment such as
The Cockpit. You must be 19,
however, to purchase beer (in a
grocery store such as Kroger,
for example) for off-premises
consumption. And finally, you
must be 21 to purchase, drink,
or possess wine or hard liquor
(‘‘distilled spirits,’ in ABC ter-
minology).

Two other general provisions
of the law are of particular im-
portance. No matter how old
you are, it is against the law for
you to buy alcoholic beverages
for persons under the legal
drinking age as outlined above.
In addition, it is against the law
— a Class 4 misdemeanor — to
drink or to offer a drink to
anyone else (whether accepted
or not) “at or in any public
place.’ This means that you
may not drink in public or in
sight of any public conveyance.

Party Licenses

Because of the recent ‘‘bust’’
of a fraternity-sponsored party
at Zollman’s Pavilion and the
charges placed against six
Washington and Lee students
for the illegal sale of alcoholic
beverages without a license, it
is of special importance that all
individuals and groups holding
such parties be familiar with
the pertinent laws and ABC
regulations. A conviction on

such a charge can result in a
fine ranging from $50 to $500,
and a possible jail term ranging
from 30 days to twelve months.
In addition to the criminal sanc-
tions that can be imposed, a
conviction can obviously have a
devastating effect on a stu-
dent’s career aspirations.

ABC agents have been par-
ticularly concerned about par-
ties at Zollman’s because of
complaints from area citizens.
Supposedly private parties
have been advertised widely,
and members of the public
(including, allegedly, some
under-age members of the
public) have been allowed ac-
cess. Private parties at
unlicensed places must be truly
private, e.g. if a university
function, limited to Washington
and Lee students, dates, and
guests invited specifically by
written invitation. No alcoholic
beverages can be sold by cash,
ticket, or any other means.

ABC interpretation of state
law, incidentally, is that if there
is a “cover charge’ at the door
and the cost of the beer is in-
cluded in that cover charge,
then beer is being sold. In addi-
tion, beer cannot be given to
anyone under 19 years of age,
and no one can drink outside, in
public.

If, on the other hand,
alcoholic beverages are to be
sold at the party or if you wish
to serve beer to anyone 18 years
of age, a private banquet
license is required by state law.

Restrictions will be very tight
for such licenses. The ABC
Board will consider the is-

suance of a 24-hour license to
student groups only upon writ-
ten approval from both the Of-
fice of the Dean of Students and
local law enforcement agency.
ABC agents are to be allowed
free access to all licensed af-
fairs, which must be restricted
to beer purchased under the
banquet license only. There can
be no brown bagging of wine,
beer, or liquor at such func-
tions.

Because the regulations are
fairly complex, Mr. Jerry Dar-
rell, director of university food
services, has prepared a helpful
two-page handout which gives a
‘“layman’s analysis’? of ABC
regulations as they may affect
college students and frater-
nities. In addition, the universi-
ty has arranged for represen-
tatives of the Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control to
meet with fraternity presidents
and other student organization
leaders at 6:45 p.m. next Tues-
day, Nov. 9, in Room 114 of the
Student Center.

_ I would urge anyone with

questions about the ABC regula-
tions to attend the Nov. 9
meeting or to talk with me. I
shall have copies of the relevant
sections of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act available
in my office. Further, if any stu-
dent organization or fraternity
is planning a party and has a
specific question concerning
compliance with ABC regula-
tions, do not hesitate to get in
touch with the local ABC agent.
You can get his telephone
number either from Mr. Darrell
or from me.

 

Ring-tum Phi

Porte ENE occ cnc cciscceevccecensees
Assistant Sports Editor ..............00005
Features Editor ...........cceeecseeeeeres
Head Photographer .............seeeeee0%
Photographers .......cccccscccssccccesees

 

(SVE LEVeierstenecies Todd Smith
yeekicedeevectceescReriaw ees Steve Perry
eieriebeliverespiiieeees Evans Attwell
Viiiiliivendveeeat John Cleghorn
(00g den is Fen as cence gniitedes Lee Nichols

vetaheetenaertetetcrrivees B. Scott Tilley
poor err a errr rrr. David Sprunt
heb ebseehesbL> Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Jeffery Lis, Robert Miller
ceenbee Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

Norma Anne Chattin, Barry Flemming, John Harrison
Andrew Hoppes, Nelson Patterson, Bill Roberts

Advertising Manager ............s0eeeee0%
PR UOWOIAOR cece ccccecebeccesesecdaeqees

Circulation Manager ............00ceeeeee

Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler, G. Bruce Potter
Ure ebeCOPEEOLE CAROL ER Ed OES Tom O'Brien
deen sutoenestine Al Bryant, Charles King,
» Brad Houston, Tim Mulraney, Jim Wood:
pas vdd thethet¥oibia ts piseveie Jim Wood
The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982, Page 3

 

 

ABC officials plan Tuesday meeting with frats

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi staff writer

In an attempt to remind
Vashington and Lee students
that the laws on alcohol con-
umption are, alcohol control
fficials are scheduled to meet
ith members of the Inter-
raternity Council and the Stu-
ent Activity Board Tuesday
vening, Nov. 9at 6:45 p.m.
This meeting stems from a
1eeting involving the
\ockbridge Commonwealth’s

Che
Jrinking
Cradition

By BETTY MUNGER

Alcohol and students - have
iad a riotous, painful associa-
ion for as long as there have
een universities. Heidelburg,
he Sorbonne, Oxford have
ong histories of drunk and
lighly disorderly conduct,
vhich leads inevitably, to tur-
sulent relations with their local
stablishments.

So what’s new about today’s
tudent behavior? It’s what
tudents are traditionally sup-
osed to do, isn’t it? ‘‘Not for
‘nowledge that we come to col-
ege, but to raise hell while
ve’re here.” Right?

But there are some obvious
lifferences between students
‘arousing in a tavern and a
raternity bash. It was wine,
wer and mead (Falstaff’s
avorite) that set those earlier
tudents reeling. Today, spirits
vith nearly ten-fold the alcohol
‘ontent are downed with equal
ileasure and speed. Instant or-
it, staggers and slurs.

Too, those earlier pub
‘rawlers did not have 100 horse-
xower weapons at their
lisposal.

One thing I find bothersome is
he pride taken in getting
ilastered. ‘I’m really going to
ie one on this weekend!”’ ‘‘Boy,
was bombed out of my mind!’’
\n end in itself; macho;
flamorous. It even receives a
ouch of official understanding
vhen the Dean of Students, in
iis perennial story to entering
reshmen, tells of Winston
Shurchill, weaving-drunk at
)xford, unable to find the
ceyhole for his key. (Yes, and
1is landlady will still be ugly
omorrow ).

Drinking is expensive. During
he great Depression we just
lidn’t have money to buy much
Johnny Walker. ‘‘He’s_ not
lating this week, he’s drink-
ng.” Still, there was, at least in
ny memory, plenty of excite-
ment, laughter and emotion at
those parties.

When you come right down to
t, there’s not much prowess,
skill or talent involved in get-
ing drunk. All it takes as plenty
of money and the ability to
swallow. dems

Attorney office, ABC agents
and several W&L ad-
ministrators. At that time,
Commonwealth’s Attorney
Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read
reacted to the raid of a Chi Psi
Pavilion party Oct. 9 by declar-
ing that anyone caught drinking
alcoholic beverages in public
would be arrested.

Read’s statement appeared to
some people to be new inter-
pretation of the law; however,

Commonwealth’s Attorney,
says that it merely reflects a
stronger effort to start reinforc-
ing the laws that already exist.
‘This is not a new law,’’ said
Saunders. “‘It’s just that the law
has not been carried out in this
area, including W&L VMI and
(among) private citizens.’’
Saunders said that in the past
few years, ABC agents have
been late in getting to the
scenes of possible violations,

time they got there, everything
was over. The agents at our
meeting also said that up to
1978, they used to go over the
laws every year with Dean
John. But it hasn’t been done
since,’’ Saunders said.
According to Saunders, the
agents said they did not arrest
anybody in the Pavilion inci-
dent for drinking in public.
(Beer was free for everyone
who paid admission for the par-

Saunders said the agents will
point out at Tuesday’s meeting
that, although the party was a
private function, the Pavilion
can be seen by the public. Thus,
anyone who consumes beer or
alcohol there is considered to be
drinking in public, he said.

“These violations will be
brought up,’’ Saunders said.
‘‘But the main thing we want to
get done at the meeting is to let
everybody know what the law

Gordon Saunders, Assistant especially concerts. ‘‘By the

 

ty, which featured a band. ) is.”

es

As a state trooper watches, Professor Nancy Margand, Dean Dan session on Alcohol Awareness in the Executive Committee room.
Murphy and senior Wood Selig participate in Monday afternoon’s

(Phi photo by David Sprunt)

 

Minking Out About Town

 

In the line of duty

By TODD SMITH
Phi Editor-in-Chief

Hmmmm, where did that little old lead go? Assigned to cover
Monday’s session of Alcohol Awareness Week, Roanoke Times and
World News reporter Brian Shaw waded into the thick of things for
a first-person account. The session provided participants with
booze and then let them test themselves on the newly purchased
Breathalyzer. Professor Margand, University Center secretary
Carole Chappell, and various EC representatives were among
those getting crocked in the name of Alcohol Awareness. Shaw
found his lead by the second paragraph of his story: ‘‘Anything for
a story; anything for a drink.”’

Sweet Briar hospitality

You and your pals are cruising the dorms at Sweet Briar. You
knock on the door and ask, ‘‘Wanna Party?” The girl has a mud
pack on her face and slams the door on you. Is that fair? Editor
Vicky McCullough of the Sweet Briar News says no. In an editorial
Oct. 28 she reprimanded fellow students for their inhospitality and
said it sometimes leads to vandalism.

‘How many boys, after being treated in a friendly way, would
want to kick ina door or steal a fire extinguisher?

‘So next time you’re studying for a midterm and you hear a
group of boys in the hall, instead of sticking your head out the door,
yelling ‘Shut up!,’ and slamming the door, take a few minutes to
say hello, make them feel welcome, and point them in the direction
of a place where they can party.”’

Hi, ’m obnoxious

Also in the Sweet Briar News is E] Warner’s column, “My Life As
A Man,” written from the perspective of ‘Ed, a Phi Delt from
W&L.”

Ed, having slept and eaten and played lacrosse gets ready for the
big party. ‘‘Some girls from Hollins get there. I go up to one. ‘Hi,
I’m Ed, can I get you a beer? I decide the girls 2re ugly and leave to
get them beers, never to return. I stand in the corner and talk to
men, because I’m so secure. If I don’t want to date I won’t have one,
so there. I let girls get their beers before I get mine, and if I’m feel-
ing really polite I even pour it for them. I usually don’t feel too
polite.’’

Ed gets drunk, goes to Hardee’s, gets obnoxious, goes home, and
goes to sleep.

You never know, minks, be inhospitable and these women may
turn to vandalism.

"Macon guide to geese

While we’re scouting the newspapers of area colleges, take a look
at the Oct. 14 Sundial, from Randolph-Macon Woman’s College.
The paper's editorial board warns R-MWC ‘‘social rookies’’ about
men’s schools.

‘*YOU KNOW HE’S A GOOSE WHEN ...

‘‘He tells you that he draws cartoons for fun .. .

“‘He tells you that his favorite song is ‘Julie, Julie, Do you love
me?’ by Bobby Sherman... .

‘‘He invites you to his room to listen to ‘Born to Run’ when it is
already playing on the dance floor.

‘*He can only shag if you lead.

‘‘He has a Chery] Tiegs poster in his bathroom. . . .

‘He drops your hand when walking past his old girlfriend.”

The Lion in Winter’’

The VMI Cadet reports that ‘“‘The Lion In Winter’’ will be
presented Nov. 9-13 at 8 p.m. in Scott Shipp Hall. The play deals
with who will succeed Henry II as king of England. Will it be
Richard the Lion-hearted? John? Geoffrey? For ticket informa-
tion, call 463-6389 4 to 6 Tuesday through Thursday. Call 8 to 10 Mon-
day through Thursday. Call 463-3281 at other times.
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982
i NSA EE RP RR SELEY ELAR PERO IE TELE A EES NTE G ALE LEED SE NEE LS EEE IESE LE ATE RELIES LEAL SEE SLE LL LESLIE DEEL ELLA LAE.
‘Se eA NRTA RARER PE ENLARGE TELNET OTT LTA ET TLE ALLER ITI TI TET,

The EC reported progress on bringing lights to the

front campus parking lot, new equipment to the
weight room, and students to Alcohol Awareness

meetings.

EC mini-meeting lights up front parking lot

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi News Writer

In a 13-minute meeting Mon-
day night, the Washington and
Lee Executive Committee en-
couraged students to par-
ticipate in this week’s Alcohol
Awareness activities and dis-
cussed several other matters
briefly.

President Bennett Ross an-
nounced that the faculty had
voted earlier in the day to table
the proposed curriculum
changes for the time being.

According to Ross, the faculty

will await the report of two
committees, the Committee on
Honors and on Interdepartmen-
tal Courses. Thus, a decision on
the changes in distribution re-
quirements will not be made un-
til at least the spring, Ross said.

Ross also said that he had
received some ‘good com-
ments” about the letter sent by
the EC to the faculty about the
proposed changes. The letter
came after a special EC
meeting last Thursday and was
drafted by senior represen-
tative John Viahoplus.

Ross noted that the meeting
had been preceded by a
demonstration of a ‘‘breath-
alyzer,’’ which police measure
blood-alcohol content. Ross urg-
ed the members to ‘‘talk up”
this week’s activitis in conjunc-
tion with Alcohol Awareness
Week.

Sophomore representative
Dave Jonson reported that he
had spoken to Frank Parsons,
assistant to the president of the
university, about installing
lights in the parking lot by the
war memorial/front gates.

According to Brower, Par-
sons was “glad that the
students had mentioned this
and reminded him because he
had let it slip.”’ He will notify
(buildings and grounds super-
visor) James Arthur and asked
Brower to get back to him if
things don’t start moving soon.

Pete Baumgaertner thanked
the physical education depart-
ment for repairing the old
weight equipment and install-
ing a new bench. He also in-
formed the EC that the Student

Athletic Committee will meet
on Nov. 4 to discuss the
possibility of an area of tne gym
for weight-using students who
do not participate on athletic
teams.

However, Baumgaertner,
said ‘‘we’re probably lucky,”
because some other universities
do not even allow non-athletes
to use athletic equipment at all.

Ross closed the meeting by
announcing that only the larger

‘committees will have to file a

budget report every month.

Faculty, students debate distribution

By TODD SMITH
Phi Editor-in-Chief

They aren’t listening to us,
said John Vlahoplus as he
watched the faculty’s side of the
University Council debate on
proposed changes in the W&L
distribution system.

One of the biggest questions
at Thursday’s meeting of the
Council, which is made up of
students and faculty, was how
the students fit into this pro-
posal’s approval process, and
why ‘‘the opportunity for
students to voice their views
and opinions on this,” in Dean
John’s words, came only a few
days before the scheduled facul-
ty vote on the matter.

As it turned out, the faculty
did not vote on the proposal to
alter the general education re-
quirements for students. At its
monthly meeting on Monday,
the faculty voted to postpone
the vote in order to wait for a
report from a committee on
honors courses.

But some students coming in-
to the Council meeting were
under the impression that it was
too late for them to actually do
anything about the proposal.

‘“‘There was certainly no in-
tention to limit student debate,
nor to limit faculty debate,”’
Dean of the College William
Watt said. He said the student
Executive Committee had been
invited by Professor Sidney
Coulling to submit ideas, and
had not.

“If there was nothing done
among the Student Body, then I
think you’re going to have to put
some of the blame on the Ex-
ecutive Committee,’’ Com-
merce School Dean Edward At-
wood said.

After two hours of discussion,
the Council voted 9 to 8 to ex-
press disapproval of the section
of the proposal which requires a
foreign language, while voting
not to disapprove of the whole
proposal, 11 to6.

 

proposal.”’

it end’ argument.”

 

 

With a few exceptions, the
votes divided the Council facul-
ty from students.

Students, most notably
seniors Vlahoplus and Chris
Stokes, voiced opinions against
the proposal:

Stokes argued that faculty
trust in students is shown in the
amount of freedom students are
given to select their own
schedules ;

~ Vlahoplus said that most of
the students he had talked to
felt the new general education
requirements would scare off
applicants ;

~He argued that the courses
that the faculty would require
under the proposal would be
restrictive and yet not make
students take many valuable
courses, such as philosophy;
and

»Danny Parsley, a soph-
omore, suggested that forcing

students into courses would
weaken the quality of the
courses, whether they be
foreign language or science.

Faculty members argued the
Opposite: .

Watt said that the present,
looser distribution system was
introduced in the ’60s when high
schools were sending students
with better preparation, and
that the proposal would send a
message to high schools to start
tightening up;

~He argued that students
had misinterpreted the pro-
posal, which he said would
mean less general education
courses for the well-prepared
students ;

~ He and Atwood said that ap-
plications would not drop off
because other schools were
moving in the same direction,
some already having stiffer
distribution systems; and

The faculty postponed its scheduled Monday vote on a proposal
that would drastically alter the way a student at Washington and
Lee “rounds out’ his education. Professor George Ray com-
mented at the monthly faculty meeting Monday that the faculty
ought to wait for a report from Professor Thomas Williams’ com-
- mittee on honors courses. The committee is scheduled to com-
plete its work before the end of the academic year. ;

The proposal would require a student to complete the
equivalent of the second year of a foreign language, to study
English or foreign literature, and to complete four hours of a
laboratory science. Under the present distribution, a student
needs 36 credits from four categories to graduate. The proposal
would decrease that number for well prepared students, and in-
crease the number for others.

Professor Lad Sessions: “‘It’s restriction without complete con-
striction. .. .There are certain elements of freedom in the new

Senior John Vlahoplus: ‘‘Sure, it’s great to have a lab science,
it’s great to havea foreign language — but it’s the old ‘where does

 
 

» Professor Lad Sessions told
students that the proposal con-
tained many positive aspects,
such as allowing courses in a
students’ major to be counted
for general education as well,
and allowing students to make

substitution, journalism for
English composition being a
tentative example.

“IT am personally embarrass-
ed when someone asks me,”’ At-
wood said,”’ if a student at W&L
has to have competency in a
language, and I have to say no,
or competency in math, and I
have to say no, or competency
in a natural science, and I have
to say no, or if he has to take an
English course, and I have to
say no.

“It’s a reflection on the
Washington and Lee degree and
not a good one,’’ Atwood said.

The discussion was not sim-
ply faculty against student. In

fact, some of the cleare
arguments against the propos:
came from Spanish professc

Larry Boetsch.
“Personally, I’m nc
dissatisfied at all with what tk

W&L degree represents,” sai
Boetsch, an alumnus.

He said the Romanc
Languages faculty  stoo
unanimously against the pri

- posed curriculum, which wi
require that a student reac
second-year level with a foreig
language. ‘‘Nobody comes her
without two years of a foreig
language, and we’re willing t
respect their decision not t
continue with language,
Boetsch said. To have student
in class who did not want to k
there would lower the quality «
the courses, he said.

Parsley extended this arg
ment to the proposed require
ment of at least four credits of
laboratory science.

“Don’t you feel that in la
science if the chemistry depar
ment is creating these lowe
level science courses, aren
they going to become as ineffec
tive as lower level language?
he asked.

The students on the Counc
were no more unanimous tha
the faculty. Third-year law sti
dent Mike Bommarito said, ‘
graduated without having take
a lab science and I find that t
be to my detriment nov
There’s something to be said fc
these requirements.”’

“TI think what’s being propo
ed is very good,” said senic
David Cole. “ I think it’s ver
bad that you can go to W&L an
not take a language.”’

As faculty and students tric
kled out at 6 p.m., most of th
Council stayed to put the matte
to a vote. After great confusio
on whether the students shoul
vote separately and whethe
what the motion would be, th
two votes were taken, and th
meeting adjourned.
The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982, Page 5

 

 

Academic honor society

taps in 32 sophomores

Thirty-two Washington and
Lee University sophomores
were inducted Wednesday into
Phi Eta Sigma, the national
honor society for students who
completed their freshman year
with superior academic
records.

To be eligible for Phi Eta
Sigma membership, a fresh-
man must achieve at least a 3.5
grade-point average (on a 4.0
scale). The society was founded
in 1923 at the University of Il-
linois and now has 180 chapters
and more than 200,000 members
nationally.

H. Robert Huntley, dean of
freshmen at W&L and Phi Eta
Sigma chapter adviser, presid-
ed over the initiation cere-
monies,

The students inducted into

Phi Eta Sigma were: Gabriel B.
Balazs; Michael S. Bearup,
Stephen H. Bendheim, Martin
A. Berisford III, Roger L.
Butler, Charles Joseph Cadle,
Luke L. Chang, Samuel P.
Dalton, John C. Dawson III,
John J. Delany III, Charles R.
DePoy, John A. Diduro;

Also Christopher Fulton,
Apostolos G. Grekos, David L.
Harrar, Scott J. Henderson,
Kevin H. Kelley, John D. Long,
David E. McGehee, Robert N.
Miller, Ken L. Moles, Clarke H.
Morledge and James K. Mur-
phy ;

Also James N. Nance, Ken-
neth S. Nankin, James Burns
Newsome, Robert A. Schlegel,
B. Scott Tilley, Robert J.
Tomaso, David M. Wilkinson,
Christopher Williams, and Jon
E. Zagrodzky.

Election night: Alan Armitage and John Sancilio monitor political commentators Mike Allen and

 

Bruce Potter in the W&L television lab. Journalism students provided up-to-the-minute returns Tues-
day over Cable Nine and WLUR. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

EC sends faculty

Journalists talk ethics

NBC News correspondent
Douglas Kiker will speak on the
issue of ethics in broadcast
journalism on Friday, Nov. 5, at
8 p.m. in the library’s Northen
Auditorium.

The lecture is free and is
sponsored by Society and the
Professions, Washington and
Lee’s innovative program in ap-
plied ethics, and is being held in
conjunction with the ninth an-
nual Institute on the Ethics of
Journalism, being held Friday
through Sunday.

Approximately 15 practicing
journalists from both the print
and broadcast media will at-
tend the three-day institute,
joining Washington and Lee
undergraduates and members
of the journalism faculty for a
series of seminars.

Kiker, a Georgia native, was
a young reporter for the Atlanta
Journal throughout the turmoil
of the southern civil rights
movement. As White House cor-
respondent for The New York
Herald Tribune, he was present
in Dallas when President Ken-
nedy was assassinated.

As NBC’s national political
corresponsdent, he followed
every major candidate in the
last five presidential cam-

ee ee eee sy
AST LEX |
BEER SPECIAL

BUD 12 PACKS.......94. 59

(PALS at

 

Douglas Kiker

paigns.

As a war correspondent, he
reported from Vietnam, Nor-
thern Ireland, and the Middle
East. On special assignment, he

 
   

reported on the revolution in
Iran. For his reports on the Jor-
dan war, he was awarded the
1970 Peabody Award, broad-
casting’s most coveted prize.

On Nov. 2, between the
hours of 12:30 a.m. and
8:30 a.m., text books

and notebooks belong-

rel. If anyone has infor-
mation concerning
these books please con-
tact him at Gilliam 220
or phone 463-2743

' c¢ ga 2 OF 2 WH ob A

Ca ve ee

   

opposition message

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

At a special Thursday night
meeting last week, the Ex-
ecutive Committee drafted an
official policy statement oppos-
ing the proposed curriculum
changes. The letter, addressed
to ‘‘all faculty and administra-
tion” was subsequently put in
each professor’s mailbox before
the faculty meeting Monday.

“The liberal arts education
cannot be defined so precisely
as to include a given number of
lab science credits or a profi-
ciency in a foreign language.
Singling out certain depart-
ments as necessary for a liberal
arts education slights other
departments,” the letter said.
Senior Rep. John Vlahoplus
elaborated on this, saying, ‘‘It
seems like they’re defining cer-
tain courses as necessary for a
liberal arts education.”

Viahoplus also clarified a
point of conflict, explaining that
courses, in some cases, could be
applied to a student’s major as
well as distribution, and that
some substitution would be
allowed.

“A journalism course could

ALOHA WOK

463-9342

ctetewudlt

be used as an English composi-
tion course to satisfy distribu-
tion. The number of ‘overlap
credits’ would put some
students in a very good position.
Dean Atwood assured us that
there was no intent to hose the
C-Schoolers,’’ Vlahoplus told
the committee. Atwood was
responding to a comment Presi-
dent Bennett Ross made at last
Monday’s meeting that the pro-
posed changes were a ‘‘vendet-
ta against business majors.”

Vice President Morgan Grif-
fith pointed out that the argu-
ment that students wouldn’t be
attracted to a school that re-
quired a large number of
courses was unfounded because
“W&L’s competition is doing
the same thing.”’

The letter went on to say that
“The purpose of a liberal arts
education is the mastery of
disciplines, not depart-
ments....We believe that the
proposed curriculum changes
are an attempt to define a
liberal arts education by ‘what,’
not ‘how.’ ”’

The EC encourages students
to speak with their professors
regarding this important issue.

Chinese, Polynesian, and

American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

[Sun. Buffet 12- 2:30-$4.25|

“Carry-out Available’

Open Tuesday through Sunda y

Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10
Closed Saturday Luncheon

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982

 

 

University Federation President Jim Averett (Phi photo by
David Sprunt)

 

ROTC honors seniors

At ceremonies conducted in
the Military Science Building at
W&L last week, 27 seniors in the
university's Army ROTC pro-

gram were honored for their’

performance at the ROTC Ad-
vanced Camp last summer.

Activities at the encampment
included intensive tactical
training, physical fitness,
soldier skills, weapons training,
and orientations to the various
specialties which cadets might
pursue upon commissioning.
The emphasis throughout the
camp was on leadership and its
application.

Almost 3,500 cadets from
throughout the eastern United
States participated in the six-
week program at Fort Bragg,

K irby

Awards included citations
presented to Newton Kendrick
and Bowen Woodruff for ex-
cellence on the Advanced
Physical Readiness Test. Ken-
drick was in the top ten percent
of all cadets in physical fitness.

Reconnaissance-Commando
Awards for successful comple-
tion of mountaineering, sur-
vival, and special warfare
training were awarded to the
following: Harry Feuerstein,
Keith Goretzka, William Jonas
III, Newton Kendrick, James
Lipscomb IV, Todd Meyer,
Hansel Millican III, Robert Or-
tiz, Fred Renner III, David
Ridlon, John Ross, William
Self, Michael Skardon, Robert
Stephen, Bowen Woodruff and
Anthony Zaccagnini.

(continued from page 1)
outside, that he (Purvis) would pick them up in the patrol car and
pitch them out next to the Chief’s back porch. . . .”
In the investigator’s interview, Purvis directly denied this inci-
dent and states that Chief Kirby would not have knowingly taken

stolen goods.

This allegation of received stolen goods is the most serious ques-
tion that is raised by an examination of the public record. That, and
the implication made by other officers that Kirby ignored the reali-
ty of the theft ring, are the two central issues from the public record

to be investigated.

The public document, consisting of statements made by six
former and acting law enforcement officials, is close to 200 pages
long. The statements include widespread accusations, implications
and recollections of many of the robberies commited by Lexington
police officers of Lexington businesses. Often one officer’s
testimony will contradict another’s. In other cases, two officers’
statements will support the same conclusion. The public record
must be read and studied with great discretion. But its contents
provide a detailed and realistic view of the depth of the Lexington

police theft ring and most importantly, provide an outline for the in-

vestigation into the Office of the Chief of Police.

‘From what I saw, this should be a super
year. The Little Brothers were excited, as

were the W&L guys.”’

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

A change in leadership and in-

~ creased enthusiasm among

students involved have
transformed this year’s Univer-
sity Federation.

Involved in such community
programs as Big Brothers,
Total Action Against Poverty,
tutoring in public schools and
outreach to patients at Western
State Mental Hospital and local
geriatric facilities, this year’s
federation of student volunteers
promises to be ‘‘the best in a
number of years,’’ according to
Mike Cappeto, its adviser.

‘All around, (the federation)
is better. Programs are being
re-started, and community re-
sponse has been great,’’ Cap-
peto said.

Cappeto ascribes this revitali-
zation primarily to the new
leaders in the club. This year’s
Federation president Jim
Averett ’83, served last year as
vice president of the student
Executive Committee. Cappeto
sees this as a plus.

“The people we have as
leaders have been leaders in
other organizations in the past.
By having them working for us
now, we have improved the ad-
ministrative quality of the
Federation and have got the
W&L program running again,”
Cappeto said.

Averett sees a solid body of
the student support as the key to
the Federation’s success.

‘‘We have students involved
who want the program to be
successful and who will work
hard to see that come about.
The students are excited, as are
the people in the community,”
Averett noted.

One of the term’s major
events for the Federation was
Big Brother’s Kickoff Hallo-
ween Party held Friday in
Buena Vista.

‘From what I saw, this
should be a super year. The lit-
tle brothers were excited, as
were the W&L guys,” Averett
said.

Student volunteers and Uni-
versity support are two keys to
the Federation’s success that
both Cappeto and Averett
stressed. Averett hopes to get
greater student participation in
the program, especially in
tutoring and visiting the elder-
ly.
Averett believes the key to
filling that need is showing
students the rewards of the pro-
gram.

‘‘A lot of students are involv-
ed in the Federation and there
is a lot of enthusiasm among

— Jim Averett

them. Those students that
aren’t involved, however, we
need to motivate and show them
the rewards, the personal
satisfaction gained from such
an experience. Being a catalyst
in speeding up student involve-
ment is important,” Averett
remarked.

Without financial help from
the university and donation of
physical facilities for activities,
however, student involvement
would be next to null. This is
where the university enters,
Cappeto notes. .

In his years as adviser, Cap-
peto has seen constant universi-
ty financial support for the
Federation, whether in picking
up tabs for gas or paying for
amusement park tickets and
parties for Little Brothers. Ad-
ditionally; university donations
of physical facilities —buildings
for activities, clerical help,
printing services, and even
Cappeto’s advisorship —added
to the Federation’s success.

While the program gives
students a chance to meet peo-
ple and expand contacts in the
community, Cappeto said he
sees added benefits to student
involvement also.

‘“‘The danger at small univer-
sities like W&L is students only
meet people like themselves.
That makes Jack a very dull

Jobs

(continued from page 1)

professionals to meet with
seniors to discuss career oppor-
tunites. ‘‘My goal here is to get
good jobs, jobs that are in-
teresting and satisfying,”’ Cap-
peto said.

“IT don’t want to sound
negative but I think students
ought to prepare for the worst,”
he said.

Start early, start now, recom-
mended Cappeto. To help sen-
iors get started in their job sear-
ch, the Placement Office is of-
fering three workshops next
week, which will be held in
Room 114 of the University
Center. Seniors received
notices of the workshop sched-
ule in the mail Monday.

“‘The person who knows what
they want to do, why they want
to do it, should fare much better
on the job market than someone
who is vague, tentative about
it,’’ Cappeto said. In addition to
introducing students to the
techniques of job hunting the
workshops are designed to help
the students refine their ideas of

. what they want todo.

| Students plunge into service

boy,’’ Cappeto said. “The
Federation shows student in-
volvement and concern for the
community, however. Students
are interested in the communi-

“It’s easy for the community
to see the fraternity parties and
hear the loud music and just
assume the students don’t give
a damn about the town. The
Federation disproves that
theory,’’ Cappeto said.

Drinking
discussed
tonight

An informal discussion on
‘Driving Under the Influence of
Alcohol” will be held on Thurs-
day, Nov. 4 at 8:45 p.m. in Mc-
Cormick Hall, (Room 121) led
by M.A.D.D_ representatives
Laurie Williams and Jack
Hamilton. The purpose of the
discussion is not discourage the
drinking of alcohol, but drink-
ing and driving.

The M.A.D.D. group will offer
national/state statistics involv-
ing drinking-related accidents
and deaths, and personal in-
volvement. The Executive
Committee encourages ll
students to attend.

 

“Our students are looking at
one of the most favorable
markets in the country,’’ Cap-
peto said. ‘‘Most students
typically look for jobs in the Sun
Belt, which is not suffering as
much from the recession as
other areas of the country.”

Statistical surveys of W&L
graduates conducted by the
Placement Office indicate that
about 50 percent of the class of
1983 will find employment after
graduation. About 35 to 40 per-
cent will go to graduate school,
and the remaining ten percent
will travel or opt to do nothing.
Some will go unemployed.

If the future resembles the
past, these predictions will hold
true. “In general, it looks about
the same, but it is too early to
tell,”’ Cappeto said. ‘But if the
economy turns itself around
and starts expanding, there
could be jobs everywhere.”

Given the characteristics of
the typical W&L graduate who
is white, aged 21 and a single
male with a college degree, the
class of 1983 should have an ad-
vantage. “People who want

jobs are going to find
something,” Cappeto said.
The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982, Page 7

 

 

 

Coach Norman F. Lord exorts his students before a run in Aerobics class, above. At right, Coach Lord.
(Phi photos by Ned Abbe)

Running for the Lord

By NELSON PATTERSON
_ Phi Staff Writer

Among the confused jumble
of memories a freshman car-
ries from orientation, one must
stand out clearly:

Coach Norman F. Lord.

The broad-chested coach
meets with each group of
freshmen that comes through
the gym, urging them to sign up
for PE 154 — Aerobics.

It gives girls more W&L man
to hug, he tells them as they
laugh nervously.

“I think aerobics is the most
fun course I teach,’’ Lord said
in a recent interview. ‘‘The
students have a deep apprecia-
tion by the end of the course for
the discipline involved in
fitness, and they’re fit.”’

“Fun. Fitness. Friendship.”
The three infamous F'’s of phys-
ed with Lord.

‘They’ ve got to be in order, or
else the course is not worth it

for the student or the teacher,”
he noted. ‘“‘Have fun in class
first. Become fit, and while you
are becoming fit, make
friends.”

Teaching fitness, however, is
only a temporary goal for Lord.

“In the short term, I want the
students to be healthy. In the
long term, I want them to help
make a strong race. I don’t
want us to go down the tubes
like the Romans because of ex-
cessive pleasure seeking,’’
detailed Lord, pausing to think
before he added more.

“At W&L, we have students
who will be future leaders. I
want them to experience this
fitness so they will be apt to sup-
port programs for fitness in the
future, whether at the com-
munity or national level.’’

“I took Aerobics as a
freshman, out of ignorance,”
one anonymous senior noted. ‘I
got in great shape; really en-
joyed the class. I’d like to take

Calendar

the class over just to get in the
physical discipline again.”

One freshman taking the
class said Lord ‘‘demands a lot
from you, but the exercise gives
you a better feeling. I’ve never
run so much in my life, but I en-
joy it. I ‘feel good,’ as Coach
Lord says.”

_America’s fitness is one con-
cern Lord holds, and he fears
this weakness may prove to be
America’s downfall someday, if
it is not already. This past sum-
mer, the father of three con-
tributed to America’s fitness by
beginning one of his grand-
children on a calisthenics pro-
gram.

‘“‘He came here and couldn’t
do five situps and five push-
ups,”’ Lord said, describing his
favorite exercise, the flip-
series, ‘‘but he left here being
able to do 35 of each at one time.
It’s just another illustration of
where we as a country are go-
ing. In this age of television and

no chores, unless kids par-
ticipate physically, they are
weak. Plain weak.”

Some schools cut physical
education when the school
budget needs trimming, and

Lord deplores that attitude.
‘‘Many_ schools _ neglect
physical education. The

academically gifted few are
benefited, but no emphasis is
given the physically talented.
That’s odd when you think
about it. When you are exercis-
ed well, you can think more
clearly and feel better,’ Lord
remarked.

Having been captain of his
college track team and a foot-
ball player for four years in col-
lege, Lord holds a deep admira-
tion for all sports. He teaches an
officiating course in the
spring term which goes over
many sports’ rules, a review
Lord enjoys every year.

“‘You know, they just changed

rns

 

Thursday, Nov. 4
Regional Meeting: National Association of College and University
Food Services. Northen Auditorium.
5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: Speaker, Thomas A. Wilson, ’83.
Howe 401, preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402.
8 p.m. — Illustrated Lecture: ‘The Psychology of Fear and
Stress,’’ by Dr. Jeffrey Gray, University Lecturer in psychology at
Oxford University, England, and visiting professor in psychology
at W&L. Lejeune Hall, V.M.I. Sponsored by the Psychology depart-
ments of W&L and VMI Public invited.
8:45 — Discussion: “Driving Under The Influence’? McCormick
Hall, Room 121.

ALCOHOL AWARENESS

8 p.m. — “W&L Punch Bow!” Alcohol Trivia Quiz Program: W&L
Young Democrats vs. College Republicans

8 - 10 p.m. — Jerry’s ‘Happy Hour Sans Spirits’ Half price on the
Cockpit’s famous super sandwich and all non-alcoholic beverages.
In the Cockpit. W&L’s recently purchased “‘Breathalyzer’’ will be
available in the Cockpit for anyone who would like to test
themselves Thursday night.

Friday, Nov. 5
Society and the Professions. Journalism Ethics Institute.
10:45 a.m. — Career Workshop: ‘Program in Forestry and En-

vironmental Studies at Duke University,’’ Dr. Richard DeGuilio,
member of the School of Forestry, Duke University. Parmly 301.

8 p.m. — Film: “Days of Heaven’’ (USA, 1978) 95 min. dir. Ter-
rence Malick. Lewis Hall, Classroom A. Public invited. Free.

8 p.m. — Lecture: ‘Ethics in Broadcast Journalism: Under Fire,’’
by NBC News correspondent Douglas Kiker. Sponsored by Society
and the Professions. Northen Auditorium. Public invited.

Away Athletic Event: Water Polo: Southern League Champion-
ships, Richmond.

Saturday, Nov. 6
8:30 a.m. — ATP (SAT and ACH) Newcomb Hall.
Society and the Professions. Journalism Ethics Institute.
11 a.m. — Cross Country; ODAC Championships.
1:30 p.m. — Football: Generals vs. Catholic Univ. Wilson Field.
8 p.m. — Film: ‘“‘Days of Heaven.”’
Away Athletic Event: Water Polo: Southern League Champion-
ships.

Sunday, Nov.7
Society and the Professions. Journalism Ethics Institute.

Away Athletic Event: Water Polo: Southern League Champion-

ships. Richmond.
Monday, Nov. 8
Faculty textbook adoption-forms due in the Bookstore.

 

a college rule in soccer about
offsides,”” he said, explaining
the finer points of the ruling.
“As far as the officiating class
is concerned, though, it’s like
the alphabet: you’ve got to
know it before you can spell;
you’ve got to know the rules
before you can play.”

Learning the rules scares
some students away from the
course, but Lord says those who
stay in the course often make
good money later in life of-
ficiating for local games.

Every fall and spring, Lord
has all his students regardless
of the course, run (and run and
run). Some students get nothing
from the running except
callous, tender feet. Others win
shoestrings, in colors that
represent levels of fitness, from
Lord.

“If you can run long dis-
tances, you are performing an
aerobic exercise — a constant
moving exercise — and thus you
can recover oxygen more easily
when you are involved in an
anaerobic sport like squash
where sudden bursts of speed
are needed,”’ he explained.

Lord’s theory on running has
won converts. A few years ago,
Lord had a squash class where
he ran the students for the first
five classes. A competition be-
tween Lord’s class and another
coach’s class saw Lord’s class
win, despite their running in
previous classes and not play-
ing squash. The losing class
“ran for the next couple of
classes,” said the coach, to be
in shape like Lord’s class was.

“I have a thesis. W&L men
should marry big and better
women, physically in-shape
women and raise big and better
sons and send them to W&L,”’
he said chuckling at the se-
quence of words as he said
them. ‘‘We’ll take those boys
and keep the process going.’’
 

 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982

 

xquisite

 

mported

Cheeses

HOURS:

Mon.-Sat. 9am-l1 am
Sun. 10 am-l am

110 South Jefferson Street

 

 

 

 

yaa

 

 

‘Hawks rumble on Saturday

By Edwin Bell

The Nighthawks, a favorite
rhythm and blues band with
W&L students, will play Satur-
day in Evans Dining Hall.

Although in the past the
lacrosse team has financed
their spring training in Florida
by throwing a Pavilion party
with The Nighthawks, Satur-
day’s event is sponsored by the
Student Activities Board.

As demonstrated last year
with a concert by the Mighty In-
vaders, the Dining Hall pro-
vides more room and better
facilities than dZollman’s
Pavilion, which authorities
have closed to W&L parties.

The band was formed in 1972
by Jimmy Thackery (guitar
and vocals) and Mark Wenner
(harmonica, vocals); and
shortly after that Jan Zukowski
(bass) and Pete Ragussa
(drums) joined the band with
their R&B backgrounds to fill
out the blues and driving rock
sound of the band. Each
member of The Nighthawks
meshes their particular sound
with one another well. After all,
they have worked together ten
years. They now perform 300
shows a year in cities ranging
form New Orleans to D.C. The
Nighthawks originate from
Washington D.C. and have
many memorable experiences
derived from their nights in
Washington D.C. clubs.

Only a few years ago The
Nighthawks were playing at
Desparado’s while George
Thorogood and the Destroyers
were performing in the Cellar
Door across the street. Every
night at a prearranged time the
two bands would break into an
extended jam of ‘Madison
Blues,” and Thorogood and

 

The Nighthawks _

Thackery would meet in the
middle of M street to trade licks
and stop traffic. Other laurels
collected in these ten years are
touring with Greg Allman for a
short time and Jimmy
Thackery’s receiving second
honors for best R&B guitarist in
Guitar Magazine.

The doors for the Saturday
night show will open at 8 p.m.

and students are asked to use
the front door on the side of
Caroll Chappel’s office. Tickets
can be purchased at the door for
$4, beverages are included. Col-
lege ID and proof of age are re-
quired due to the recent ABC
crackdowns. Lanier Edge, SAB
chairman asks students to
respect the dining hall, so that it
might be used again.

 

 

“Days of Heaven’’ is truly a film that
transports the viewer to another time and

another place.

‘Days of Heaven’ starts Friday

(The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the American
film Days of Heaven (1978; 94
min.) at 8 p.m. on Friday and
Saturday in Classroom “A” of
Lewis Hall in the W&L Law
School. There is no charge for ad-
mission and the public is invited.)

By RICHARD GREFE
W&L Film Society

“Days of Heaven.” directed by
Terence Malick (of “Badlands”
fame) is widely considered to
be one of the stunning visual
achievements of modern film-
making. Much of the film’s ac-
tion takes place on the wheat
field of the Great Plains and
these outdoor sequences, often
shot in the natural light of
sunset (the ‘‘magic hour’’), are
justifiably famous.

Nor are “Days of Heaven’s”
sensual elements limited to the

visual. Malick’s use, of ,sound del

greatly contributes to the
dream-like quality of the film
and, combined with its visual
images, even creates for the
viewer a consciousness of the
senses of smell and touch.

The film’s plot concerns a
steel worker, Richard Gere, his
lover, Brooke Adams, and his
kid sister, who is the film’s nar-
rator, Linda Manz, a threesome
who take to the rails in 1916 and
find themselves employed as
migrant farm workers. Posing
as brother and sister, the two
lovers find that their situation is
threatened — and finally doom-
ed — when a wealthy farmer
falls in love with Adams.

One critic has written that
“Days of Heaven” is ‘“‘over-
photographed and_ under-
characterized” and, indeed, the
film’s physical beauty nearly
overwhelms the drama of the

characters’ relationships. But,

4 * od Sons ‘ '
asasy rg 5s {ORR

it should be remembered that
these are days of heaven as ex-
perienced and recalled by a
child; memories of many sen-
sory experiences will remain
vivid, while the more subtle
aspects of the adult world will
be little-understood and only
vaguely remembered. (Surely,
only a child would remember
migrant farm labor as heaven-
ly.)

“Days of Heaven” is truly a
film that transports the
viewer to another time and
another place. The film’s im-
ages of sight and sound are so
powerful that the memories of a
9-year-old girl may well become
those of the viewer.

(Richard Grefe is an instructor
and reference librarian as well as

faculty adviser to the Washington
and Lee Film Society.)

“Peahid
The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982, Page 9

 

 

Review

 

 

‘Man for All Seasons’

couldn’t be better

By TORI RICHARDSON
Special to The Phi

The Washington and Lee
University Theatre production
of Robert Bolt’s ‘‘A Man for All
Seasons’”” was a_ well-appre-
ciated treat for all those who at-
tended the opening night’s per-
formance. Cast members did an
excellent job in portraying the
historical scope of sixteenth
century England throughout the
conflicts that eventually split
the British hierarchy from the
Catholic Church.

The production of ‘“‘A Man for
All Seasons’”’ was dedicated to
President Huntley in apprecia-
tion for his support and interest
in the Washington and Lee
Theatre. President and Mrs.
Huntley were present to see the
theater season kick off to a
splendid start.

Every character, from Sir
Thomas More to the Chapuy’s
assistant, was played with a
mark of perfection. Mark
Daughtrey, who played the role
of Sir Thomas More, must be
commended for his exceptional
performance. The audience
didn’t doubt for a second that
Sir Thomas More, the English
statesman executed for his
strong religious beliefs, was a
person of practical intelligence
and integrity. His utter sinceri-
ty must have won the hearts of
all who attended the perfor-
mance.

The Common Man, played by
Chris Lillja, was one of the
highlights of the evening. His
satirical remarks and actions
provided the comic relief need-
ed for this serious historical
story.

Tom Murphy represented
Master Richard Rich as truly

Review: Van Halen

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON

Van Halen roared into the
Roanoke Civic Center Hallo-
ween weekend accompanied by
a devastating barrage of sound
and a light show to rival the
best.

These teenie bopper kings of
heavy metal, fronted by pretty-
boy, former model David Lee
Roth, put on a typically solid,
though flawed, show. The con-
cert started slow, and pretty
rough, with guitarist Edward
Van Halen having trouble with
his equipment. But once things
got ironed out the band went
screeching through their high
velocity, hard rocking pop
tunes.

It was obvious that the show

marrowless. One laughs at his
hilarious behavior, all the while
cursing him for his lack of
character.

Thomas Cromwell, portrayed
by Todd Jones, was the power-
hungry person whose only am-
bition appeared to get Sir More
to submit to the King’s wishes.
His acting was quite believable.

Keith Shillington, Washington
and Lee’s chemistry professor
as Cardinal Wolsey, was
without a doubt excellent for the
part. His delivery of some of his
lines brought, by far, some of
the greatest roars from the au-
dience.

King Henry VIII could not
have been played better. Chris
Cartmill’s presentation of the
British king who sought to
break away from the Roman
Catholic Church because he
wasn’t granted a divorce by the
Pope should be given a Tony
award for his performance.

Much applause goes to Pat
Woehrlen, Andrea LaRue and
David Marsh for their role as
the supportive family of Sir
Thomas More. The beauty and
innocence of LaRue, the
warmth and self determination
of Woehrlen, and the stubborn-
ness of Marsh were well
brought out in their characters.
We W&L theater-goers hope to
see more of them in the future.

Chris Carmouche, Larry
Butler, Brian O’Riordan and
Landon Jones rounded out the
production with a fine support-
ing cast.

And Washington and Lee
Theater-goers’ favorite person,
Laura de Maria, as usual, ap-
plied her special talents to
balance out the night’s
festivities.

was carefully choreographed so
the band’s movements would be
together and could be followed
by the lights. This was often
vital, as in Edward Van Halen’s
solo ‘‘Cathedral.’’ With Van
Halen perched at the front of
the stage, the lights dropped
from the rafters, falling in place
behind him, creating an out-
standing visual effect. The
lights, which could be raised
and lowered in small groups,
were manipulated constantly
throughout the show, creating a
myriad of effects and greatly
enhancing the show. The
general admission crowd,
which seemed to fill the arena,
was brought to a sereaming
crescendo at the end. The group

i

Ne

rh
scala

tia i
| i
$ ‘
‘Bi
me
a
i
, ae

 

The Washington and Lee University Glee Club will perform in concert with the Court Singers of
Georgian Court College from Lakewood, N.J., in Lee Chapel at 8 p.m. on Saturday, Nov. 6. (W&L photo

by Charles Mason)

wows ‘em

stopped doing their newer,
weaker stuff and started doing
the heavy metal that first got
them their legions of fans. They
crashed through such show
stoppers as ‘“‘Ain’t Talking
About Love,” and an excellent
rendition of ‘Invader,’ featur-
ing Eddie on guitar, running
right into ‘Pretty Woman,” off
the last album. They closed off
the set with a hot version of the
old Kinks tune “You Really Got
Me.”’

The sound throughout the
show was nothing short of
awesome. Although there was
just a hint of distortion, the
music was well mixed, and loud

enough to please any head:... show .were. flawless, .and .he. .

banger.

in Roanoke

Michael Anthony on bass, and
Alex Van Halen on drums pro-
vided a strong, though unspec-
tacular, rhythm section. Their
solos, though nothing to rave
about, were far better than in
the past.

The visual, and musical,
focus of the show was David Lee
Roth and Eddie Van Halen,
Guitar Player Magazine’s
Guitarist of the Year. Roth
played upon his sex-symbol
aura by coming out all but bare-
assed, and Van Halen simply
devastated the audience with
his incredible skills on the
guitar.

Roth’s vocals throughout the

showed once again how good he

is at working an audience up.

Edward Van Halen, un-
doubtedly among _rock’s
greatest guitarists, was at his
best. His leads and solos were
clean and fast, and his wide
range of ability left you wonder-
ing what would come next. It’s
really a shame Edward Van
Halen hasn’t left this outfit and
joined some of his musical
equals. He truly puts the rest of
the bandtoshame. |

Although the two hour show
dragged in spots, and did have
its flaws, it was a very good con-
cert. They showed once again
that they have learned how to
put on a good show, and still

. play good music, two things you

seldom find together nowadays.
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982

Sports

 

 

  

er

 

Junior Don White is tangled up by a Spider defender in W&L’s
match-up with Richmond. The Generals were upset by a single goal

in last Sunday’s action.

Richmond dunks W&L, nabs title

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor
The Washington and Lee
water polo team received a
rude awakening last Sunday
afternoon as the favored
Generals were upset 12-11 by
archrival Richmond in the
championship game of the
Virginia State Championships.
It was a combination of fac-
tors that led to the defeat. The
Generals’ mental attitude, as
the players reflected, wasn’t up
to par. This lapse, in turn, led to
key mental errors that W&L

could not rectify. Along with

Eagles upend Generals

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Bridgewater College upset
the Washington and Lee football
team 28-13 Saturday at Bridge-
water to drop W&L’s Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference mark
to 3-2.

The loss, the third in a row for
the Generals, dropped their
overall record below .500 for the
first time this year at 3-4. The
defeat also virtually eliminates
the Generals from the ODAC ti-
tle race.

“It gets tougher as you lose.
Everybody starts pressing and
maybe pointing the finger.
What we need right now is a
nice win. We’re not quitters,”’
W&L Coach Gary Fallon stated.

In Saturday’s game, Bridge-
water opened up a 14-0 lead

  

A JOB WITH RESPONSIBILITY,
— OR YOU CAN GET
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE NAVY

midway through the second
quarter. Al Price scored from
one yard out at 6:12 of the first
quarter and Dudley Delbridge
scored at 8:18 of the second
quarter on a 2-yard run. Both
Bridgewater touchdown drives
covered less than 50 yards.
W&L got on the scoreboard
with 1:45 left in the half to pull
to 14-3. Senior Bill Devine split
the uprights with a 36-yard
field goal to cap a drive that
began at the W&L 31-yard line.
“TI don’t think we played a
very intense game offensively
and defensively in the first
half,” observed Fallon. ‘You
can’t expect to go into a
dogfight for any number of
rounds and not expect to play
well all the time,”’ he noted.
Things got even tougher for

 
   
   

W&L in the second half. W&L
failed to cover Bridgewater’s
opening kickoff, and the Eagles
pounced on the ball at the W&L
36 yard line, Moments later,
Don Tapley scored on a 1-yard
sneak to give Bridgewater a
21-3 lead.

W&L bounced back witha 72-
yard scoring drive. Freshman
Frank Surface bullied nine
yards for the touchdown at 4:56
of the third quarter to pull the
Generals to 21-10.

For Surface, who usually
enters the game in short yard-
age situations, it was his second
touchdown in as many weeks.
“We’re really pleased with
what we’ve seen of him so far,”
said Fallon.

Bill Devine’s 26-yard field
goal at 9:10 of the fourth
quarter further narrowed the
Bridgewater lead and brought
the score to 21-13. The score was
set up by a good defensive effort
and a short Bridgewater punt.

W&L could get no closer
though, and with the Generals
defense gambling to try to
create a turnover, Dudley
Delbridge sprinted 23 yards for
the final Bridgewater touch-
down with 23 seconds left in the
game.

(continued on page 11)

this were some bad breaks at
the wrong times and overall
consistent play from the
Spiders of Richmond.

There was an overiding cause
that Coach Page Remillard saw
as instrumental. The Generals
didn’t have the hunger that
Richmond did. ‘“‘We’ve been
listening to too many people tell
us how good we are,’’ stated the
Generals’ mentor. It seemed
that this was the first time the
Generals had beaten them-
selves all season. ‘“‘We’ve got to
use this as a learning ex-
perience,’ explained Remil-
lard, “‘and I think we will.”’

Both teams breezed to their
eventual match-ups as pre-
dicted, and the contest began
with Richmond jumping out in
front 2-0, taking early advan-
tage of some obvious General
tenseness. The Generals came
back to knot it at 5-5 by
halftime, led by senior Erik
Peterson, who, as Remillard
put it, ‘‘had his best game ever
as a W&L polo player.”’

Peterson scored five goals in
the game.

Things fell apart in the third
stanza, as a missed penalty
shot and an open net goal left
the Generals stunned as they
began the fourth period down
8-5. Defensive pressure by W&L
got them back in the contest

again, and at the 3:50 mark they
cut the Spiders’ lead to one goal
at 10-9. It was not enough,
though, and Richmond held on
to win.

Coach Remillard promises a
different scenario for this
weekend at Richmond for the
Southern League Champion-
ships. ‘“We will bring the
Southern League championship
home to W&L.’’ asserted
Remillard, though he did note
that the Generals would earn
the victory during this week in
practice as much as they would
on Sunday afternoon. W&L will
take an unblemished 8-0 league
record into the tournament,
which includes an 8-5 victory
over Richmond two weekends
ago.

SIDELIGHT: Prior to the
Richmond contest, the Generals
and Coach Remillard presented
W&L professor Samuel J.
Kozak with a plaque dedicating
their victory over Slippery
Rock at the Bucknell Invita-
tional on Oct. 16 to him. Dr.
Kozak, who is always a special
fan at the Generals’ games,
underwent bypass surgery
earlier this year. The plaque
was signed by all the players
and Coach Remillard and was
inscribed, “From a special vic-
tory of ours to a special victory
of yours.’

Harriers host ODACs

Washington and Lee will play
host to six teams this Saturday
for the seventh annual Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Championships, and the har-
riers will definitely have their
work cut out for them.

W&L will face Bridgewater,
Lynchburg, Catholic,
Hampden-Sydney, Eastern
Mennonite and defending cham-
pion Roanoke in the 8000-meter
race. The meet is scheduled to
begin at 11 0’clock.

Each team in the ODAC meet
can enter up to twelve runners,
although only the top seven
finishers will count towards the

team’s score. The top seven in-
dividual finishers are awarded
All-Conference honors; Coach
Miller picks Lynchburg’s Tim
Doran and Grattan Garbee,
Catholic’s Dan Murphy,
Roanoke’s Any Chocklett and
Tony Wirt, Bridgewater’s Terry
Lenny, and W&L’s Angus
McBryde and Frank Pittman as
contenders for this honor. Last
year’s Championship meet at
Bridgewater found Chocklett
placing second, Wirt third, Len-
ny sixth, and McBryde seventh.

Last year W&L placed fourth
as McBryde became the first
General to receive All-
Conference honors. Miller is

 

 

NOW.

A civilian job with responsibility may take years to ob-

confident the team can improve
on its showing this season.
‘‘We’ve run well all season,

    

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
      
  
   
     
   
   
    

tain, even with a college degree. But if you meet Navy ° 0 su e especially at the State meet
standards, after four months of Officer Candidate WH ITE FR NT PERMARKET| where we faced every con-
Schoo! (OCS), you can become a Navy officer. And that 167 S. Main St 463-310 ference team except Catholic.
means lots of responsibility, a good salary and fringe ; co “3106 © Our runners know what they
benefits, including travel, post-graduate educational : ’ . , j have to do — catch Lynchburg
opportunities, 30 days’ paid vacation earned annually, 6 This Week’s Specials ‘ e and stay ahead of Roanoke and
plus more. i Sealtest Ice Cream, 14-Gal. $1.89 i Catholic.” The Generals have
If you’re getting your degree now, contact your col- Folger’s Coffee, 1-Lb. Can $2.25 lost twice to the Hornets this
lege Placement Office to find out when a Navy § Richfood Corn Flakes, 18-0z. Box gg¢ 7 season, once at the Division IT-
i ‘ : III state meet three weeks ago
Representative will be on campus. Send your resume Miller Beer, 6-Pack, 12-0z. Cans $2.19 d again in dual competition
: . , : : an

rte a e Gallo Wine, Magnums $3.99 © last Saturday. W&L defeated
Management Opportunities i T-Bone Steaks $3.49/Lb. ‘ the Cardinals and Maroons ear-
Pena Y Lettuce 59°Head § lyin po treranes » Miller —_
tions that both teams ‘‘have

Richmond, Virginia 23229 i 3 i
(804) 270-3101 Y Charge Accounts for Groceries . aa,
(Bills can be sent home. ) a In competition at Lynchburg
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. ! Free Deliveries To Fraternities J last Saturday, the Generals

  
The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982, Page 11

 

 

Senior Tad Renner fends off a Catholic defender in action last
Saturday at Wilson Field. The Generals went on the blank the Car-
dinals 5-0. (Phi photo by Ned Abbe)

(continued from page 10)

Sophomore quarterback John
Thompson had a good day pass-
ing, completing 13 of 21 passes
for 145 yards. His only intercep-
tion came with 17 seconds left
and the game out of reach.

Several Generals had a good
day receiving. Seniors Ken
Robinson, Jerry Thompson and
Chris Cavalline all had three
receptions and senior Steve
Corbeille had a 43-yard catch.

This Saturday the Generals
play their last home game of the
season against Catholic Univer-
sity. Catholic is a non-league op-
ponent this year, but next year
they will be a member of the
ODAC.

The Cardinals bring a 5-2
record into the game, including
a 19-18 win over Georgetown,
W&L’s opponent next week.
They have also beaten ODAC
member Emory & Henry 21-14.

“Catholic is bigger than
Bridgewater. They’re quicker
than Bridgewater, and they
really swarm to the ball,”
warned Fallon.

“Offensively they throw the
ball well. They’ve got a
freshman quarterback who has
thrown for over 1,000 yards
already,”’ Fallon pointed out.

The question of who will start
at quarterback for W&L Satur-
day remains unresolved. Fallon
reports that John Thompson
has a minor injury and Al
Paradise is now completely
healthy. ‘‘We’ll see who had the
better practice time during the
week,’’ Fallon said.

 

 

Ole Main
andinic
nnn nich

BIG DELICIOUS
DELI SANDWICHES

IMPORTED CHEESES

DELI MEATS PARTY PLATTERS
OLD MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e
Phi Delt tops
; e
IM standings
Phi Delta Theta has taken a
slim lead over defending cham-
pion Law 3 in this year’s in-
tramural competitions.
After football, tennis, and
golf, Phi Delta Theta had ac-

cumulated 283 points to 268 for
Law 3.

Rounding out the top five
were Phi Kappa Psi with 261
points, Phi Gamma Delta with
248 and Chi Psi with 235.

The ‘‘Turkey Trot’ run over
Washington and Lee’s cross-
country course will take place
tomorrow, Nov. 5, at4 p.m.

Soccer team dumps VMI,

Catholic,

The Washington and Lee soc-
cer team had “‘a lot of fun,” ac-
cording to head coach Rolf
Piranian, in downing Virginia
Military Institute 3-1 and
Catholic 5-0 during the past
week.

The two victories upped the
Generals’ record to 7-3-2 prior
to a Tuesday home matchup
with 9-4-1 Virginia Wesleyan
that will conclude their season.

Following a scoreless first
half in the United Way Col-
legiate Cup game last Wednes-
day at VMI, sophomore Rob
Coleman broke the standoff
with a penalty-shot goal mid-
way through the second half.
Junior Ted Petrides and

Football —

(continued from page 10)

placed second in dual meet ac-
tion against Eastern Men-
nonite, Hampden-Sydney, and
Lynchburg. Angus McBryde
paced the W&L effort, turning
in a time of 26:57 and a third
place finish, 19 seconds behind
Doran and 14 behind Garbee in
the 8000-meter event. Frank
Pittman was fourth at 27:21,
Jon Kelafant sixth, Bob Glenn
ninth, and Paul Chapman 12th
to round out W&L scoring in the
33-man race. The performance
dropped the General’s dual
meet record to 10-2 for the
season.

TUTE AMA Cait elite Cat

Each Wednesday night 5:30
until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,

Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and a

Garlic Bread you can eat for

OT hY
AL

600 E. NelsonSt. Lexington

 

Make Thanksgiving
and Christmas

Reservations Now
BUY EARLY — SAVE!

 

  

A

eur,

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

g# Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

WINTER SKI TRIPS

    

ee ee |

Buti

PHONE 463-7000

    
      
     
 
  

  

Call Now

CALL
463-7174

to improve record

sophomore Gary Clements later
tallied as the Generals built an
insurmountable 3-0 lead. VMI’s
only goal came with 26 seconds
left in the game.

Seniors Mark Carduner and
Tad Renner were named
Players-of-the-game for
Washington and Lee.

Carduner scored two goals
and an assist to lead the
Generals against Catholic
Saturday on Wilson Field.
Senior Brad Poorman, junior
Roland Simon, and freshman
Bill Holmes each added a goal
for the Generals.

Poorman’s tally upped his
team-leading scoring mark to
23 points. Clements, Carduner,

and freshman Keith Schott
shared player-of-the-game
honors.

‘We followed our game plan
to a ‘T’ against Catholic. When
Catholic pushed their de-
fensemen up, our forwards slip-
ped in behind and were in good
position all day. We had ex-
cellent passing, excellent
shooting and _ excellent
defense,” said Piranian.

“The guys enjoyed them-
selves in those games (VMI and
Catholic). It showed on the
scoreboard, it showed in prac-
tice, it showed just about
everywhere. They’ve been put-
ting it all together recently.”’

 

 

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

 ONARCH

 

November 9

It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 
Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1982

Lexington dry goods company PALMS Opera house

   
   

“Only The Very Best" (Thursday)
= BRUCE WALLACE & CLASSIC
*x SPECIAL Nay een

(Southern Rock at its best)

THIS WEEKEND \ sn —S> aru

RED BALL JETS — 9:30-1:30
AWPS Sweate rs (Great campus favorite)

Sececesescoscsssessosceses

Wools & Cottons WIDE SCREEN MOVIES 1:00 - Star wars

3:00 - Godfather
Reduced

    
  
 
 
 
 
 

: Happy Hour 3-6 Drafts...50°
Pitchers...$3.50

aaah ahead ddd bibdate thea ILL riiii Tir iii ts

(Saturday)
CHARISMA — 9:30-1:30

 

    

 

 

CHARGE ACCOUNTS | Big og CEs a
| WELCOM E PU el eto sete Pint ed stn hes Ht

 
  
   

a SATA TTT

THE a

pa Tradition’

= | Famous Burger Tuesday

= Char broiled pound burger
Technics = with homemade potato kurls

The science of Sound =

 

     
   

 

Lowest Prices i Mal ' Pasta Nite
Area!!!! = Wednesday All You Can Eat Only
Technics SL-6 Z 3-99 _

 

Computerized Linear — FEvery Day Attitude Readjustment
Tracking Turntable ' Hour - 5-7

Only $319 with cartridge — | Dratt.. ‘50° House drinks...$1.00
See You This Weekend On The Corner
  

VOLUME 82

Ring

NUMBER 10

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
"LEXINGTON, VA, 24450

-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia November 11, 1982

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S, POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Journalist
lectures on

press ethics

Dancy decries
‘star complex’

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

NBC News correspondent
John Dancy told a university
audience Friday night that ‘‘as
a result of the election Tuesday,
we may see a crippled Presi-
dent for two years.”

He went on to deplore some of
the practices of his own profes-
sion, saying he is ‘‘appalled’’ by
the attention that’s given to
ratings of news programs and
that broadcasting’s so-called
‘‘star complex’ is “‘one of the
greatest evils we face in jour-
nalism.”’

Dancy made the comments at
a session of W&L’s ninth annual
Institute on the Ethics of Jour-
nalism, one facet of the Society
and the Professions program,
which reviews ethical questions
involved with the practice of
journalism, law, medicine, and
this year for the first time,
business. (See related story,
page 4.) *

Dancy, who’s been an NBC
correspondent since 1965, cur-
rently covers the Senate for the
network. On Election Night, he
conducted live interviews from
Capitol Hill.

He says he much prefers the
Congressional beat to his
previous post at the White
House. ‘“The place leaks like a
sieve,’’ he told the audience.
“The average life of a secret on
Capitol Hill is about 3.7
minutes.”’

Senate coverage is ‘very
satisfying,” while working the
other end of Pennsylvania
Avenue can be ‘‘frustrating and
dissatisfying.”’ At the White
House, ‘‘much of the informa-
tion is spoon-fed, and there’s
very little time for enterprise;
.. sometimes I think (covering
the White House) requires no
experience whatsoever.”’

Dancy told the crowd, ‘‘The
power of the press is awesome,
and I oppose any attempts to
limit us.”’ For example, he said,
‘I oppose the attempts to limit
the Freedom of Information
Act. It’s been a good act and it’s
been helpful to us.’”’

“The press corps, particular-
ly the Washington press corps,
wield tremendous power. It’s
the power to set the agenda,
decide what people are going to

(continued on page 4)

 

Eee

Ei
oe

 

A winning weekend at WE&L

Senior tailback Chris Cavalline and friend relax during the closing minutes of W&L’s 41-0 victory over
Catholic University. Cavalline finished his last game at Wilson Field with a touchdown that got the
Generals started on their way to victory. It was an excellent weekend for the rest of W&L athletics, as
the cross crountry and water polo teams captured their respective league titles. For details of the
weekend's success see pages 10 and 11. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

 

Inside

 

Student aid
.... page 2

The Phi looks at the W&L
financial aid situation
and finds an expensive
school shelling out more
aid than ever before.

Minority Center
....page 3
Black students who seek
the mutual support of a
unified body have been
brought together this
year to live and meet in
the former Lee House.

IFC hears from ABC

... page 6
Officials from the
Virginia Alcoholic

Beverage Control Board
laid down a firm line at
Tuesday’s Interfraterni-
ty Council meeting.

 

 

Munger
to retire

Students lose
a friend and
an institution

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

July 1, 1967, was a red letter
day in W&L history. On that
day, Betty Munger entered the
scene in full force as_ the
bookstore manager. August 31,
1983, will also be a landmark
day. Betty Munger will be retir-
ing.

“Oh I don’t know what I’ll be
doing in my retirement exactly.
I’m afraid I'll be lonely,’ she
said recently.

“T think I may work as a
volunteer in the public library.
Did you know there is a public
library in Lexington? It used to
be above McCrum’s drugstore,
but now it has its own building.

‘‘T hope to audit a few courses
here.

‘‘Maybe I’ll travel, but I only
want to see New Zealand yet. Of
course I’]] read.

“And cook; I love cooking.

‘Who knows what else may be

thrown in there.”’

As her mind jumps quickly
from subject to subject, it
seems unlikely that Betty
Munger will suffer from
boredom. Loneliness? Unlikely.

“T’ll miss the guys the most, I
think. Over the years, I’ve en-
joyed them very much. They
keep me young, on my toes. I’m
devoted to them. It’s funny how
shy and quiet and meek they
are when they come as fresh-
men,”’ she said.

“Then they change, and |
hear all about the summer jobs
and love affairs. That I’ll miss
terribly.”

Few students will forget. Dur-
ing freshmen orientation, her
“beer, bed and breakfast’
speech has become a command
performance.

“That speech can’t be more
than three or four years old,”
Munger noted. “Students love
it, but few appreciate what I am
really saying in it. Girls are
concerned about more than bed,
beer, and breakfast. They’re
not just necessities for a party
as some guys think around
here. That mentality is exactly
why I think W&L should go
coed.”’

And off she started at a gallop
on women and W&L.

“Why should the university
go coed?’’ she queried
rhetorically. “‘Look at the cen-

(continued on page 7)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982 *”

 

Opinion

 

 

 

 

 

Trustees step in as
Reagan steps out

By NORMA ANNE CHATTIN
Phi Staff Writer

Even though the academic
session began without the full
knowledge of how much money
Washington and Lee would
receive from the federal
government in financial aid,
Michael Bartini was not exactly
sitting on the edge of his chair
waiting for the figures.

Bartini was more confident
than some other directors of
‘financial aid across the nation
because his office has a
guarantee from the university’s
board of trustees to make up the
difference in the federal finan-
cial aid cuts with university
money. Bartini was able to
meet the needs of all returning
students on financial aid and a
large majority of freshmen
qualifying for need based aid.

Some 25 percent of students
receive what is known as need
based aid granted on the basis
of a_student’s income, his
parent’s income and assets
computed by the federal
government.

University budget

 

Students

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

Expectations of higher
operating costs led to the 7.4
percent increase in tuition by
the Washington and Lee Board
of Trustees last month, Univer-
sity Treasurer Stewart Epley
said Tuesday.

Operating costs of the univer-
sity will also rise by 7.4 percent
in the next year and tuition
revenues are expected to cover
63 percent of those costs, Epley
said.

That means the proportion of
the total cost of running

Bartini didn’t know how much
would be cut, but he didn’t want
students to have to wait to know
how much they would get.
‘“‘We’re concerned, but we can’t
hold up the ship,”’ said Bartini.
The financial aid office was not
left completely in the dark since
he was provided with estimates
of the proposed cuts.

“We feel very fortunate to
have the trustees behind us,”
said Bartini, “but there may
come a time when they are not
always able to make up the dif-
ference between the federal
funding and the students’
needs.”’

Maintaining the financial aid
program is important to Bartini
and the rest of the college com-
munity. ‘The aid provides an
important diversity to campus
and gives us access to students
who otherwise might not be able .
to attend.” Notes Bartini,
“some institutions do not have
the resources we do, which
makes it even more important
for us to maintain our pro-
gram.”

Washington and Lee University
borne by the student body will
increase only slightly. But
students are already paying for
a high proportion of the cost of
their education.

Students at the University of
Virginia are paying for about 30
percent of their school’s opera-
tional costs while W&L students
are paying 62 percent this year.

UVa is funded by the State of
Virginia unlike private schools
like W&L where endowment
and gifts pay for the balance of
operating costs that are not
covered by student fees.

To the individual student the

A Look into Financial Aid

One dollar in ten that the university
student financial
assistance. Here, the Ring-tum Phi,
with help from the W&L News Office,
examines the issue of financial aid.

spends goes to

Michael Bartini, Director of Financial Aid

 

   
 
  
  

Aid will set record in °83

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity awarded a record $1.5
million in financial aid for the
1982-83 academic year, accord-
ing to statistics compiled by
Michael D. Bartini, director of
financial aid at W&L.

That total represents finan-
cial aid money that Washington
and Lee awarded to both under-
graduate and law students from
its institutional resources and
does not reflect aid to students

pay big share

pressures of increasing tuition
and a sudden slashing of federal
funds for student loans are forc-
ing him to dig deeper into the
pocket.

In response to this, the
university is attempting to in-
crease the financial aid re-
sources available to students.
The Board of Trustees authoriz-
ed an increase of 25 percent in
financial aid at the same time
they increase tuition.

Next year the university will
give to students one dollar in
financial awards of every ten
dollars spent on operations.

 

   

LGR WOPIN ma sincere

futons
YBRY ARIPO '

\

ct

 

a

"MAKE UP YOUR MIND — WHERE DO YOu WANT THIS?’

from state, federal, or other
sources.

The $1.5 million has been
awarded through 14 different
financial aid programs, rang-
ing from need-based university
grants to an expanding pro-
gram of honor scholarships and
included $267,250 in loans the
university has made to law
students.

Not included in the $1.5
million financial aid total is
slightly more than $100,000 of
aid that was awarded this year
to students from Rockbridge
County in the form of tuition
waivers.

Financial aid funds at Wash-
ington and Lee come from gifts
or endowments _ specifically
designated for student aid, in-
cluding $600,000 this year from
the Pratt Fund, a $12 million be-
quest to the university from the
estate of John Lee Pratt of
Fredericksburg, Va. In his 1976
bequest, Pratt specified that the
fund should be used to permit
W&L to “offer more scholar-
ships for outstanding students”’
and to increase faculty salaries.

“With the much-publicized
decrease in federal funds for
student aid, we found it
necessary to make significant
increases in our need-based
aid,” said Bartini, noting that
university grants that are based
on a student’s need have in-
creased from a total of $460,000
for the 1981-82 academic year to
$740,000 this year.

Another area that has in-
creased dramatically involves
the university’s program of
honor scholarships — grants
ranging up to the full amount of
tuition offered to students with
records of exceptional achieve-
ment and unusual promise.

In 1981-82 the total amount
awarded in honor scholarships
was $96,000. This year that total
was $127,000.

Washington and Lee has add-
ed three honor scholarships in
the past two years: the Dora L.
Lewis Scholarship, the Best
Products Foundation Scholar-
ship and the Baltimore Scholar-
ship.

The increase in financial aid
awards at Washington and Lee
is reflected in the last two
freshman classes admitted to
the university.

For instance, 121 of the 365
freshmen who matriculated in
September were awarded aid in
the total amount of $475,000. In-
cluded in that total are 32
students who received no-need,
honor scholarships of between
$400 and $5,400 each.

That compares with two
years ago, when 84 members of
the freshmen class which
enrolled in the fall of 1980
received aid in the total amount
of $296,100. Only 12 students
received no-need, honor
scholarships of between $500
and $1,000 each that year.

One of the new approaches
Washington and Lee is utilizing
in its financial aid program is
represented by the Baltimore
Scholarship, which was award-
ed for the first time this year.
The scholarship is the first of
what the university hopes will
be a series of regional scholar-
ship programs established in
those cities and geographic
regions from which the univer-
sity has traditionally drawn
students and in which there is a
substantial number of alumni to
create and support the scholar-
ships.

The university’s financial aid
program received strong sup-
port from its board of trustees,
which recently approved plans
to increase the amount of finan-
cial aid W&L can award for the
1983-4 academic year by ap-
proximately 25 percent.

In his recent report to parents
of Washington and Lee students
during Parents’ Weekend
festivities on the campus, W&L
President Robert E. R. Huntley
referred to the financial aid pro-
gram at the university when he
said that ‘‘our largest needs for
the future lie in the area of en-
dowment for financial aid pro-
grams. Over the years ahead
we will need to increase signifi-
cantly the amount of money the
university devotes to assisting
students here who cannot afford
to pay their own way.”
The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982, Page 3

 

 

New center unifies minority students

By B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Features Editor
In order to bring the black
students on campus together,
Washington and Lee has con-
verted Lee House, a former up-

perclass dormitory into the new |

Minority Cultural Center.

Five students live in’ the
center that also houses the of-
fices of the Student Association
for Black Unity (SABU) and the
Black American Law Students
Association.

Ron Magee, a junior and the

house’s manager, said the func-
tion of the center is ‘to nave

somewhat of a place where
minority students can come
together and find out about
themselves in a non-formal at-
mosphere. We can laugh and
talk and tell jokes.

“Before, with SABU, we
could not get everybody
together at a particular time.

Also, this removes’ the
restraints,’’ he said.
John White, director of

minority affairs at the universi-
ty, said, ‘One element that
tends to set our center apart
from other similar facilities at
other campuses is the residen-
tial aspect. I think this will help
to create the kind of community
atmosphere that we hope to
generate with the center.”
Magee explained that paren-
tal support was essential in ac-

“Students can retreat here once in a while, but they
must still undergo the mainstream at W&L.”’

— Ron Magee

 

M2
__

BN ain inet

Students enjoy a little after-supper television recently in the new Minority Cultural Center on Lee
Avenue. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

quiring the house. Parents of
many of the black students
formed a committee to speak
with President Robert Huntley,
and that “‘set the wheels in mo-
tion,”’ Magee said.

After obtaining the house,
parents also helped by making
curtains, choosing furniture,
and other essentials. White em-
phasized that they weren’t the
only ones responsible, though.

“The university did a simply
superb job in providing this
facility,’ Magee said. He
specifically complimented the
faculty, administration and the
Executive Committee.

The minority center plans to
provide a full social life, but
shuns all comparisons to a
fraternity.

“We look at the fraternity
system as a successful one,”
said Magee, ‘‘but we’re not per-
forming the function of a frater-
nity house. Brotherhood and
camaraderie will be found here
too...but, our main purpose is
performing functions for
minority students.”

Besides parties, the Center
has planned speakers, art
shows and concerts, and con-
ferences with students from
other schools. A reception with
the faculty and hosting a
sociology class have been
among the activities sponsored
thus far this year.

One fear has been that the
center may tend to separate the
students from the rest of W&L
life, but Magee does not forsee a
problem.

“T don’t think this university
will ever get a_ significant
number of black students that
we could become separatists.
We have to integrate...Students
can retreat here once in a while,
but they must still undergo the
mainstream at W&L,”’ he said.

“The center is a place to
allow black students to find
themselves, mature, and adjust
to life at W&L,’’ he said.

 

Letters

 

Hollins defends

beer policy

To The Editor:

I am writing to you concern-
ing a matter which I believe
needs to be brought to the atten-
tion of all Washington and Lee
students who attend Hollins’
parties. It concerns the beer
procedures at our parties.

There are many reasons why
we serve beer the way we do,
and I feel if our guests unders-
tand these reasons, it may
alleviate many complaints and
misunderstanding.

So often after a Hollins’ party,
numerous W&L students have
been heard to say “‘Why do we
have to pay for beer at Hollins,
when Hollins students attend
W&L fraternity parties and get
free beer?” Fraternities are
social organizations whereby

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum

Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

IE ig 6 oo oc Webteeceti

| rr ee
er ree
BN NE rea kb echo dieses aii
BOF EE oo oi os cee 0es cceereseeees ile
Assistant porte Editor... ccc ccc etenns

PORUUGR GD occ ckecceecccndccccenceege
HEOAG PIMLORPOORET occ cect cccccas ce scces
POU AOROTG occ ch i ecdvececcscset cosets

War ek OE i's cc dc ccacetaaensns te
Assistant Features Editor .................
My eerrie rae

jheeis tev eissssevarbesceceete Todd Smith
bare Ges vd ba CVF ea Fekete Steve Perry
eGbbis csc eareks had coe Evans Attwell
fies cess pees ikea bike Bill Roberts
shale w kaa o0cb bles bees ceesces Lee Nichols

er RE re B. Scott Tilley
Wel chs ees i sar bee David Sprunt
seeeeeeeeeeeeess Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

jee bot 011 ck 00006900 Paul Casey
icvia oe et entcdiegebites David W. Johnston
iGne Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

Norma Anne Chattin, John Cleghorn
Barry Flemming, John Harrison

Andrew Hoppes, Nelson Patterson, G, Bruce Potter

Advertising Manager ............-e-ee eee
A OIRAION oo iis cc Co Vn taceecraaceveecens

Circulation Manager ...........0eeeeeeees

Rob Schiegal, Rick Swagler,

bere evee ei eae Tom O'Brien

part of the members’ dues are
put forth for the sake of parties.
Hollins has no social organiza-
tions or Sororities to fund par-
ties. Therefore financing a
Hollins party entails admission
and beer charges.

When Hollins’ students attend
SAB sponsored events, such as
the Cockpit, we pay for beer and
admission. When parties are
held at the Pavilion or Evans
Dining Hall, we pay one price
which includes both admission
and beer. So now you may ask,
why can’t Hollins do this? But
why should people who don’t
drink pay for people who do
drink? A recent student student
survey at Hollins has concluded
that 12 percent of the class of ’85
and 15 percent of the class of '86
disapprove of the use of alcohol.
Free beer also encourages
waste and excess. When you
have to pay for beer, maybe
you'll think twice about putting
it down, doing something, and
then leaving it there. It may
also make you aware of the
amount you are drinking.

Hollins is neither condemning
drinking nor trying to keep peo-
ple who attend Hollins’ parties
from drinking? What then are
the reasons for a party? They
are here so that Hollins’
students and their guests can
mix, meet, and be with friends.
Parties should be where a group
of people can get together,
listen to music, and have a good

time. Should drinking be the
focus of the evening?

I think it is important that
people who attend Hollins’ par-
ties understand our policies. I
also hope that those who attend
our parties in the future will be
patient with our beer pro-
cedures and have a great time!

Sincerely,

Michelle DeRussy
Student Government
Association

Hollins College

Focus wants
your ideas

Editor:

Focus, the interdisciplinary
symposium, is pleased to an-
nounce a deadline for submis-
sions to its journal The Ex-
celsior. All essays are due on
Nov. 19. We are asking for
essays on any topic and invite
the W&L community to an ex-
change of ideas. So often, the
theories of individuals, ex-
pounded over a glass of beer or
at a cocktail party, are left to
evaporate in thin air. Excelsior
exists to give substance to those
theories, to share those theories
and, hopefully, to spark the kind
of controversy and debate that
is the hallmark of a free society.
Focus and Excelsior have great

promise. We want to share this
journal, eventually, with other
universities. We want to put on
a symposium that shows the
whole region that W&L is a
school of active and thinking
students. Help this organization
live up to its promise. Spend 15
or 20 minutes jotting an idea
down and share it. Submissions
to The Excelsior will be ac-
cepted in Carole Cappell’s of-
fice through Nov. 19 or, call
Chris Bouquet at 463-9524. We
need a chairman for next year
and some involved students.
Thank you for your interest.
Sincerely,
Chris Bouquet
Chairman of Focus

Prof fights
Thursday cuts

Editor:

I am discouraged by poor at-
tendance for Thursday classes,
especially early morning
classes. I am determined to do
something about it. Therefore,
hear this: next semester
(Winter Semester) students in
my courses will be expected to
be in class on Thursdays. Each
student will be allowed three
Thursday cuts. A 4th cut will
terminate student enrollment in
that course.

Milton Colvin
Professor of Politics
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982

 

 

John Dancy, NBC Senate reporter, waxes ethical at a seminar last weekend with Journalism depart-

a]

    

ment heat’ Ron MacDonald and senior Henry Langhorne. (W&L photo by Pat Hinely)

Dancy

(continued from page 1)
talk about. It’s not a power we
sought — it just grew as televi-
sion grew.” -

Dancy said ‘‘there’s a great
deal of curiosity about the
White House press corps. I
think if we came from the
moon, there wouldn’t be more
interest in us.”

In describing the White House
gress, he said it was very objec-
ive about the issues they
-overed. He cited as examples
‘he fact that he had been unable
10 make up his mind on a posi-
tion on the Panama Canal, the
MX missile or the Social Securi-
ty dilemma Congress faces.

On the whole, he said, ‘‘we’re
male, white, and apolitical.”

Dancy says one White House
reporter in five is in his twen-
ies. “The heavyhitters are in
their forties,”’ he said. Dancy is
46. He continued that four out of
five of the reporters are male,
while four percent is black.

 
  

YOU CAN WAIT YEARS FOR
A JOB WITH RESPONSIBILITY,

In response to a question,
Dancy said he thinks we’re on
our way to a lot of one-term
Presidents. “Given the pro-
blems of the country and the im-
mediacy of the coverage, the
President uses up his mandate
by the first election comes
around....If Ronald Reagan
runs again and wins, he would
be a crippled President going
into that and the country would
suffer for that.’’

The correspondent said the
President is “‘literally a man
who can make peace or start a
war. He can launch the Great

Society or launch a rocket.”

He said the President ‘‘is the
most public man in _ the
world....There’s an enormous
amount of vicarious interest in
what the President of the
United States does....We
Americans would like to have a
king.”’ However, he also reaps
the benefits of the exposure.

 

 

 

 

Dancy called the President’s

“ability to command televi-

sion” a “formidable advan-
tage.”

Dancy said how  well-
informed the press corps is
about the inner workings of the
Executive Mansion is largely
dependent on the _ press
secretary. ‘Jody Powell was
one of three of four decision-
makers in the Carter Ad-
ministration. When he told you
something, you knew he’d been
in on it.’” Reagan’s spokesman,
however, has been ‘‘much less
of an insider — Jim Brady was
not; Larry Speakes certainly is
not. They are not insiders and
you know they probably don’t
know much more than they’re
saying.”

Television news can be proud
of its record, Dancy said. ‘‘Our
successes are quiet ones, but
our failures are pretty spec-
tacular...our failures are
right there for everyone to see.”’

As an example, he cited the
three networks’ announcement
that Jim Brady had died of a
bullet wound the day Reagan
was shot in March 1981. Dancy
said NBC had two sources for

 

Journalists examine
controversial topics

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi Staff Writer

Journalists from four states
and the District of Columbia
gathered at Washington and
Lee last weekend for the ninth
annual Ethics in Journalism In-
stitute.

The ethics seminar is part of
the Society and the Professions
program headed by Prof. Louis
Hodges. The program, which in-
cludes seminars on law,
business and medicine, gives
students an opportunity to
discuss their intended profes-
sions with professionals.

NBC News correspondent
John Dancy began the seminar
with a speech on ethics in jour-
nalism Friday night in the Nor-
then Auditorium, discussing the
differences in the Washington
press corps from news
coverage elsewhere. Dancy,
who replaced Douglas Kiker at
the last moment, covers the
senate for NBC. (See separate
story, this page. )

For the following two days,
professionals from both print

and broadcast media invited to
the campus for the seminar and
students in a journalism ethics
class participated in closed
discussions of touchy issues
that journalists encounter.
Eight different seminars were
held for the students and the
professionals to consider. Pro-
fessor Hodges, Professor Mac-
Donald (Chairman of the Jour-
nalism and Communications
Department), and John Dancy
led the discussions which at
times became very heated, ac-
cording to Prof. MacDonald.

“The discussions got very in-
tense,” said MacDonald, “I
can’t honestly say that we came
to total agreement on any one
issue.”’

Issues discussed included
moral questions such as suicide
threats over the running of a
story or law enforcement of-
ficials’ request that media han-
dle stories in a certain manner.
_Another issue that was discuss-
ed was how to handle stories
such as the recent Tylenol
scare.

the story before they used it.
“Within the guidelines of jour-
nalism, we acted prudently. We
were wrong. You’re only as
good as your sources.”’

It’s important, according to
Dancy, that reporters keep
some distance between them-
selves and their sources. Speak-
ing of the Kennedy administra-
tion, he said, ‘“‘Reporters really
did get caught up in Camelot.”’

He says, “‘...there has to be an
adversary relationship. There’s
not enough of an adversary
relationship between the press
and their news sources. I don’t
think we ought to live cheek-by-
jowl with the people we cover
every day.”

Dancy said that media people
as stars is a “‘phenomenon that

is a relatively new one in our
society.’”’ Contracts loaded with
perks and high salaries are be-
ing signed ‘‘as a result of the
star system....That’s ridicu-
lous, that’s ridiculous. It keeps
you from covering real stories.
All it prepares you for is cover-
ing cocktail parties in
Georgetown....”’

This star factor becomes
especially noticeable on the
White House beat, which car-
ries with it a great deal of ex-
posure. Dancy asked who in the
room knew the name of ABC’s
White House correspondent.
Sam Donaldson came quickly to
most people’s minds, and near-
ly every hand in the room went
up. He then asked the name of
ABC’s Senate correspondent.

(continued on page 5)

OR YOU CAN GET
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE NAVY
NOW.

Acivilian job with responsibility may take years to ob-
tain, even with a college degree. But if you meet Navy
standards, after four months of Officer Candidate
School (OCS), you can become a Navy officer. And that
means lots of responsibility, a good salary and fringe
benefits, including travel, post-graduate educational
opportunities, 30 days’ paid vacation earned annually,
plus more.

 

If you’re getting your degree now, contact your col-
lege Placement Office to find out when a Navy
Representative will be on campus. Send your resume
or call:

Management Opportunities
Navy Recruiting District
8545 Maylord Drive
Richmond, Virginia 23229
(804) 270-3101

Vanderbilt

*

Consider a Masters in Business Administration
Vanderbilt University’s Graduate School of Management Offers:

® an opportunity to study at a prestigious
major university

@a challenging two year, full time MBA
program for tomorrow's business leaders

® concentrated study and practical experi-
ence in accounting, finance, marketing,
organizational behavior, operations man-
agement, and management information
systems

@high starting salaries and outstanding
placement opportunities with major cor-
porations throughout the U.S.

@ scholarships for proven academic achiev-
ers

§ financial assistance for students demon-
strating need

@ an opportunity to live and study in a thriv-
ing business, entertainment, and cultural
center of the mid-South

For information and an application write or
phone:
Oftice of Admission, Room 600
Owen Graduate School of
Management
Vanderbilt University
Nashville, Tennessee 37203
® (615) 322-6469

Please send me information concerning Vanderbilt's Graduate School of Management.

Name

 

Address

 

 

City
Telephone ( )

 

Zip

 

__. Graduation Date

 
The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982, Page 5

 

 

A freshman perspective

 

J-schoolers bustle
on election night

By TURNER FRIEDMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The room is full and abuzz.
There are television sets and
Associated Press wires and
typewriters. And there are peo-
ple. Pryse Elam, Bruce Potter,
Mike Allen, and Norma Anne
Chittim await the information
they will report. Tori Richard-
son and Allen Roberts are on
the road with the newsmakers,
and Steve Warren, among
others, is frantically wondering
how it’s going to work.

The scene is familiar in
newsrooms throughout the
country on the first Tuesday in
November. And for Washington
and Lee’s Cable Nine, the night
promised challenge and pro-
blems, such astcameras break-
ing down and human error, but
it also promised excitement,
learning. And fun. For a
freshman with an interest in
journalism, there could be no
better initial experience.

“Who won in Alabama,”
“switch that to CBS,”’ and so on
went the hectic voices in Reid
Hall.

The sound of the typewriter
keys saw little respite for some
four hours as stories were writ-
ten to be broadcast almost im-
mediately.

The Associated Press wires
never stopped humming and
Dan Rather’s face became a
more than familiar sight as the

More Dancy

(continued from page 4)
Ignoring the hands of several
who knew it to be Brit Hume,
Dancy said, ‘‘Let the record
show that not a hand in the
room went up.”

Dancy called reporters like
Donaldson ‘‘abusive’’ and
‘“impertinent.’’ He said,

televisions relayed results
around the country.

The excitement was there,
the problems were there, the
TV’s and cameras and type-
writers were there, but, why is
it all so important in Lexington,
Virginia? This may be Lex-
ington, but for those in Reid
Hall last Tuesday night, it
might as well have been New
York City. The experience is
what it was all about. Once that
camera light came on, political
commentators Mike Allen and
Bruce Potter couldn’t have
cared if there were 100 viewers
or 100 million—they were on the
air. And somehow they could
have been forgiven if they fan-
cied themselves, if only briefly,
as sitting in New York and
perhaps discussing with Mr.
Rather just why George
Wallace did win in Alabama.

This hope, dream, or more
probably, just feeling of impor-
tance, is in essence what the
night was all about for those in
Reid Hall.

Sure, Cable Nine was being
broadcast to Lexington, and the
coverage gave the students in-
sights they may not have had
otherwise, but it was the excite-
ment and importance, even in
just relaying information from
the newsroom to the air, that
provoked that sense of impor-
tance, urgency, and satisfaction
that tends to motivate us in our
daily rigors.

 

“There’s a difference between
being rude and doing your
work.”

When he first came to the
podium, Dancy thanked the au-
dience for coming. ‘“‘The way
things are going at NBC,” he
said, “it’s nice to be invited
anyplace.”

 

Lee Tolintino of Davidson College and two other members of the National Association of College and
University Food Services ham it up for the camera at a reception during the three-day NACUFS con-
ference. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Food conference goes well

By TURNER FRIEDMAN
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee was the
sight of the National Associa-
tion of College and University
Food Services (NACUFS) 1982
Region II Conference last week.

The conference, hosted by
W&L’s Director of Food Ser-
vices Gerald Darrell and his
staff, was attended by 104
representatives from schools
from the northeast and as far
south as Davidson.

Compared with the six
previous meetings Darrell has
attended, 104 is a large number,
he said.

The three-day annual
meeting serves as a medium for
the exchange of ideas, opinions
and techniques. This was done
through seminar-type, interest
sessions, workshops, and the
general interaction of the
delegates.

The main theme of the

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Make Thanksgiving
and Christmas
Reservations Now
BUY EARLY — SAVE!

g¥ Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

&

y ig
g—

 

WINTER SKI TRIPS

Call Now

CALL

463-7174

 

meeting lay in stress manage-
ment workshops held Wednes-
day. There were also interest
sessions on a variety of subjects
and a resource room with
displays from various schools.
The representatives voiced
strong support for NACUFS and
its benefits. They also spoke
highly of Washington and Lee
and this year’s program. Much
of the praise stemmed from
Darrell’s decision to include the
student body, particularly those
students who eat in Evans Din-
ing Hall, fully in the program.
This was a break from past
meetings, such as 1981 at
Princeton University where the
students were not even on cam-

The food service ad-
ministrators stood in line and
ate all their meals with the
students in Evans Dining Hall,
with the exception of their an-
nual banquet.

The delegates, in gauging
what appeals to students, said
that the main course is more
important than nutrition or
deserts. Darrell confirmed this
regarding Washington and Lee
students, even specifying that
meat and potatoes were the
favorites. He also has found a
large student interest in the
nightly salad bar.

The most heralded part of the
conference came on the first
night with the “Election ’82”
dinner. The theme dinner was
well received by the students
and appealed to the NACUFS

. members enough to win Darrell

a special project award.

The dinner and the con-
ference were made possible by
donations of capital and sup-
plies from about thirty con-
tributors including large dona-
tions by Sandler Foods of
Virginia Beach and Institution
Foods of Lexington.

 

 

 

The bookstore wants to buy
used textbooks for 2nd

semester, check the

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982

 

 

Frats are told
the ABC’s of ABC

By ROB SCHLEGAL
Phi Staff Writer

‘‘Change your habits.”’

That’s what ABC Supervisor
Bill Burnett had to say to Tues-
day night’s assembly at the
regular Interfraternity Council
meeting.

Drinking in public is now be-
ing strictly enforced, the ABC
offical said. The Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board is
mainly concerned with pro-
blems at Zollman’s Pavilion
and with drinking outside of
fraternity houses. ‘‘We, as
agents of the commission, do
not take drinking in public light-
ly,’ said Rob Reed, Roanoke’s
ABC representative.

In response to questions from
Chi Psi President Danny Ein-
stein and IFC Secretary Pat
Moony, Reed explained, ‘If
you're in sight of public view,
then it’s considered public,”
When containers such as cups
or mugs are used, as opposed to
labeled beer bottles for exam-
ple, then each individual case
must be dealt with differently,
according to Reed.

Why this sudden change in en-
forcement of the ABC laws?
“Times have’ changed,’’
Burnett explained at the
meeting. The public has _ be-
come concerned with parties at
Zollman’s Pavilion. In addition,
the ABC recently initiated an of-
fical hot-line number for com-
plaints about ABC violations.
Burnett pointed out that since
the phone call is free, there are
more complaints than in the
past. He also mentioned that the
ABC is not concerned with
drinking inside fraternity
houses unless there is a com-
plaint. ‘‘If there are complaints,
we have to investigate because
we have to write a report as to
whether or not the law is being
violated,’’ he said.

The topic of Zollman’s Pa-
vilion was a major source of
discussion. ABC officer Driscoll
explained, ‘‘It would be difficult
to have a legal party there.”’ He
pointed out what needs to be
done in order to have a legal
party at Zollman’s, but added
that the easiest thing to do
would be to call the regional of-
fice in Roanoke at least a week
before any proposed party.
Then matters concerning ABC
laws could be clarified in ad-

vance.

EAST L

In reference to Chi Psi’s Rob-
bin Thompson party at Zoll-
man’s last month, Burnett said,
‘There is no way I know of that
what (you) did a month and a
half ago could be made legal
under the laws of the Com-
monwealth of Virginia.”’

Burnett stressed the fact that
unless the only people attending
the party are members of the
fraternity or were invited per-
sonally by a fraternity member,
then the party is open to the
public. According to Burnett
you can’t legally have a party at
Zollman’s when people were in-
vited from all over the county.

University Food Service
director Gerald Darrell has a
public license that allows Evans
Dining Hall to be open to the
public. But in order to obtain
this license the establishment
involved must be a bona fide
restaurant. As for banquet li-
censes, ‘‘That’s a horse of a dif-
ferent color,” said Burnett.

Bob Reed, the regional ABC
officer for this area, emphasiz-
ed that the ABC is willing to
work with fraternities to make
sure they follow the laws. ‘‘We
want to work with you any way
we can,”’ he stated. Reed men-
tioned that the ABC does not
establish the law. ‘‘We don’t try
to influence the law. If the law is
enacted, we enforce it,’’ said
Reed.

Chi Psi President Einstein
asked Burnett if there could be
any mutual understanding
worked out between the ABC
and the fraternities such as
there is between the IFC and
the Lexington Police concern-
ing noise violations. Burnett
responded that he thinks
everyone knows what the laws
are,

He stated, ‘You guys have to
police your fraternity parties.”
He also noted that the ABC is
not going to allow what has been
going on in the past to continue.
This seemed to be the most im-
portant message of the
meeting.

The strict enforcement of
ABC laws does not apply only to
Washington and Lee students.
VMI students, townspeople and
local high school students are
also being affected. ‘‘Nobody is
singling out you guys,” em-
phasized Burnett. ‘‘All we ask is
that you meet us halfway,” he
said.

 

 

BEER SPECIAL
BUD 12 PACKS.......$4. 59

SISSADSSSISSSASSSASAS ISD ASS SSSA SSS

 

 

The EC and dirty laundry

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee,
which needed only 13 minutes at
last week’s meeting to discuss
its non-honor related work, met
for about 15 minutes Monday
and formed several subcom-
mittees.

Subcommittees were formed
to study the long-term use of the
EC’s new breathalyzer, the con-
ditions of the washers and
dryers in Graham-Lees dorms
and the possible extension of the
drop-add period.

President Bennett Ross open-
ed the meeting by saying that
he had received some “good
comments’? on the Alcohol
Awareness Week. In conjuction
with that, a breathalyzer was
given to the EC by the Dean of
Students’ Office. A subcom-
mittee consisting of sophomore
representative Dave Jonson
and secretary Mike Singer was
formed to study the long-term
uses of the breathalyzer.

Freshman representative
Steve Connett remarked that he
had received several com-
plaints from freshmen regar-

ding the washer-dryer situation
in the basement of Graham-
Lees dormitory. According to

Junior representative Scott Mason argues for more time to
drop/add. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Connett, there are too few
washers and dryers, and there
is actually one more washer
than dryer.

He commented that freshmen
have enough to do without hav-
ing to worry about where to
wash their clothes. Senior
representative Pete Baum-
gaertner said that there was
probably not enough room in
the washroom for additional
units. Connett replied that he
felt the soda machines were un-
necessary and was appointed to
talk to Jerry Darrell to get
some information on the pro-
blem.

  

Scott Mason, junior represen-
tative, brought up one student’s
suggestion of extending the
drop-add period to two weeks.
That period is currently the
first week of every term. Mason
said that other schools have a
two-week period, and he called
the $10 drop-add fee a “‘ripoff.”’

Jonson and Mason were ap-
pointed by the EC to study the
situation further.

Ross announced that the
budget hearing will begin next
week with reports from the Cold
Check Committee and the
Emergency Loan Committee.

 

 

Tests heighten awareness

By TOM BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

“Trying to find the highest
pitch of pleasure from drinking
before the needle goes over the
line,” is how Associate Dean of
Students Robert Huntley
described the point of Alcohol
Awareness Week. The needle
that Huntley is referring to is
the one on the breathalyzer that
the university has bought and
the one in the student’s mind
that indicates to him when he
has had too much to drink.

The Virginia Legislature pro-
claimed Nov. 1 - 7 Alcohol
Awareness Week and W&L
marked the event with a 3-day
symposium that included a
testing of eight subjects to show
the effects of drinking on the
body chemistry. There was also
a home beer-brewing demon-
stration, a non-alcoholic drinks
demonstration and an alcohol
trivia quiz program between

  
   

  
 

| VARNER |
| & POLE

115 South Main Street

  
  
    

h For your extra
pieces of furiture. |

'
Since ate on ee ee ee > <-> ~.

 
  

  

nettle ti ee, a a a ae

a

 

 

  

the Young Democrats and Col-
lege Republicans.

The coordinator of the pro-
gram, Dean Huntley, considers
Alcohol Awareness ‘‘one more
area that we would like the
students to become conversant
with; ...using alcohol is a matter
of self-regulation.”’ He noted,
that while many other colleges
are trying to introduce alcohol
regulations to student bodies,
“there is no intention of doing
that here.”’

The impetus for W&L’s
specific program was a drink-
ing survey conducted by the Ex-
ecutive Committee last year
which several members of the
EC found disconcerting. The
survey found that there were
unusually large numbers of
students who reported having
five drinks every day. Eric
Myers, last year’s student body
president, worked especially
hard to make ‘‘alcohol orienta-

tion as much a fact of academic
orientation,” said Huntley.

However, Huntley said,
‘drinking patterns are not any
more pronounced here than at
any other college...(although)
there is a macho psychology
that each student body is the
hardest drinking one.”

The various aspects of the
program received generally
small but attentive audiences.
As for concrete results from the
week-long program, Huntley
said he would like to see renew-
ed interest in the possibility of
the university building a
pavilion of its own. Citing the
hazardous road to Zollman’s
Pavilion and the possibility of
an accident similar to the one
that happened to several VMI
cadets as two motives for a
pavilion, Huntley said ‘“‘it’s
something I'd like to see the two
schools explore jointly.”’

The Southern Inn

Serving Quality Foods to

Students, Alumni and Parents

for 50 Years.

 
The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982, Page 7

 

 

W&L loses institution as Munger retires

(continued from page 1)

trifugal force their absence
creates. Where are the
students’ minds? Monday they
talk of the previous weekend,
and by Tuesday they’re already
planning the next weekend.
Yes, girls like parties, but they
are not party objects only. In
the same speech at Orientation,
I warn the freshmen about
women. ‘Someday,’ I say, ‘you
may have a woman boss.’ But
W&L guys will be at a disadvan-
tage. They have had no day-to-
day work situtations with girls
during college. I’ve talked with
countless professors who have
said women would add to the
class discussion. They would.”’

She lit a cigarette, but she
continued talking before she
took a draw.

“T have a theory. When
Robert E. Lee came here, he
looked at Washington College
and he looked at the world. He
then redesigned Washington
College in terms of the society
of that day. If he were here now,
I think he would probably look
at the world again and see
women’s roles as different, as a
greater part of men’s lives than
in 1866,”’ she said, stopping just
short of saying he’d advocate
going coed to get at her burning
cigarette.

She needed no deep breath to
start over gain.

“Millions are spent here on
improving minds and bodies,
the intellectual and_ the
physical; the third part to rela-
tionships — the emotional — is
not here. It doesn’t exist here.
And that makes W&L unreal.”’

Such opinions distinguish
Munger from many on campus.
Besides being an ardent
feminist, she is also a dyed-in-
the-wool Democrat.

What does she think of the
President?

“T’m a Democrat, and that
should tell you what I think,”’
she replied frankly.

Is Nancy Reagan on her black
list also?

“T think she’s awfully tacky,”
she muttered behind her hand
so no one would hear her,
although no one was around.
‘Jackie Kennedy had elegance,
and the Kennedy White House
knew how to throw a party. She
was the best first lady.”

Then she must despise Milli-
cent Fenwick.

“Oh I love Millicent Fenwick.
What a gutsy gal. She believes

 

‘‘Millions are spent here on improving minds and
bodies, the intellectual and the physical; the third
part to relationships — the emotional — is not here. It
doesn’t exist here. And that makes W&L unreal.”’

— Betty Munger

 

Martin Berisford talks with his employer at the W&L Bookstore. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

 

“I think most everybody is

extraordinary.

Everybody has a story. Everyone contributes to the
past, present, and future, and yes, we are all scared of
every day together.”’

 

in what she’s doing,” she
stated. ‘‘I’d do what she’s doing,
but for different reasons.”

“There has been one
Republican I have considered
voting for, and_ that’s
Goldwater. He came to the
bookstore once and bought $40
worth of books. I talked with
him, and found him to be sur-
prisingly intellectual. Sharp,
really sharp.”

Now it is the nuclear arms
question that raises Munger’s
ire.

“I’m very anti-nuclear. The
obsession with nuclear might
has become a sort of dictator-
ship in this country. But unlike
Ghengis Khan, who killed
thousands, the nuclear dictator-
ship will also destroy the earth.

“The earth cannot survive a
nuclear war,” she emphatically
stated. “It is man’s brain
destroying himself. I guess as a

FOR SALE:

Guitar
Ovation Custom Balladeer

w/case $400

Call 463-6232 oo,
463-4007 afters

woman I am just biologically a
nurturer.’’

A second cigarette was lit.

“Forty-three years ago I left
my home in Massachusetts and
went to New Orleans. I worked
and taught at the Tulane Med
school for two years, specializ-
ing in surgery techniques and
procedure. Orleans then had air
conditioning in only one store in
the entire city — the Jung Hotel
coffee shop. We drank four or
five cokes a day instead. I work-
ed in a lab with a young doctor
there, and we'd pitch pennies
for buying the drinks. I’d win 80
percent of the time. He always
got mad, I remember,” re-
counted Munger. ‘His name
was Michael DeBakey.”’

DeBakey went on to become
one of the nation’s premier
surgeons.

While aspiring to be a practi-
tioner, the young lady never

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5968

 

progressed beyond being a lab
technician at Harvard. After
marrying a young doctor nam-
ed Peter Munger, she took to
the road with him and settled in
Lexington in the fall of 1941.

As a northern white woman in
a deeply racial South, Munger
admits ‘‘it took me a long time
to understand the white feeling
about blacks.”

“The whites would entrust
their children to black care —
their children, their dearest
possessions, and yet they
wouldn’t let the blacks vote
without paying a poll tax.”

“T’ll always remember the
first maid we had. I always call-
ed her Mrs. Whatever-her-
name-was. Well, my mother-in-
law took me aside one day and
told me that black women
should always be called by their
first names. What a shock for a
northerner!’ she exclaimed.

While she holds strong views

on drinking among youth,
Munger relishes memories of
her earlier days and her first
experiences with alcohol.

“T’ll always remember the
first time I had a drink, a
highball, to be exact. When I
came home, Father said he
hoped I never had more than
one or they would never be able
to shut me up!”’ she said. ‘‘We
drank beer, but not much.
Didn’t have the money.”

Without any prompting, she
jumped into a new topic.

‘‘We had no television. I think
it’s sterile. You put nothing in.
Today’s students are the first
generation of _ television-
babysat kids. Vocabularies are
deficient and attitudes are
limited.”’

Over the years. Munger has
created a faithful cadre of ad-
mirers. Among them is Pro-
fessor Sidney Coulling, with
whose wife Munger co-founded
the local league of women
voters.

“‘She’s unique. She’s wonder-
ful, superb, personal. She has
great energy,” Coulling said of
Munger. “I have only super-
latives when I speak of Betty
Munger.”’

Co-workers in the bookstore
agree with the English pro-
fessor’s assessment.

“Betty? She’s understanding
and easy to work for,’’ said
Ruby Earhart, a_behind-the-
scenes worker in the textbook
room downstairs.

Even among the students who
work for her there are no bad
words.

“She knows so many things
about so many different topics.
Intellectual beyond a doubt,”’
Nick Leitch (84A) says. ‘‘She’s
a character, a step above a per-
son.”

But somewhere beyond that
lies the real Betty Munger,
Bookstore manager, Betty
Munger, lover of life and living.

“I think most everybody is
extraordinary. Everybody has
a story. Everyone contributes
to the past, present, and future,
and yes, we all are scared of
every day together,’ she said.

‘I’m just a people’s person. I
like people. They’re my source
of interest and concern, a con-
cern which must come from in-
side. I guess everybody needs a
gift of laughter that the world is
mad, a sense of wonder of the
infinite variety around us.
Life’s never dull. It’s never
dull.’’

Wednesday Night Buffet

OPM MRC eR MTT aR

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, ——<

Crue ero Rika Tesla) g

Only
$999

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

 

ST

PHONE 463-7000
ote See

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va.

463-3338

Monday-
Saturday

 

 

 

 

 

 

9a.m.-la.m.
Sunday 10a.m.-la.m.

 

Eight to the Bar, who performed here last year as part of the Fancy Dress festivities, will return to the
W&L campus Tuesday night, Nov. 16, performing at the Cockpit. This is part of the Student Activity
Board’s continuing Tuesday Nights at the Cockpit program. The group, which does a wide range of
swing tunes and old dance songs, is expected to draw a full house. The cover charge has tentatively been

set at $3.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES
Large stock of war and fantasy games
Open Mon.-Fri. 10-5; Sat. 10-4
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

 

 

 

 

Happy Thanksgiving
gE PITH,

ns p

$
TRAVEL
SOV ine.

Ski Austria From $599

(Includes Flight and Hotel For 1 Week!)

 

 

19 South Main Lexington, Va. 463-2197

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Red Front Grocery

is giving away a

Free Freezer

Register now, drawing on

December 24.

 

Beethoven,
Bruckner

at VMI

The Rockbridge Chorus and
Orchestra will open its 1982
season with a concert at 8 p.m.
Saturday, Nov. 13 in Chandler
Hall at Southern Seminary. The
same program will be repeated
the following day in a 3 p.m.
Sunday afternoon ooncert at
VMI’s Jackson Memorial Hall.
Admission to both programs is
free.

The chorus, conducted by
William McCorkle, will perform
works by Bach and Bruckner.

The youth orchestra, Cynthia
Penne conducting, will play
Vaclav Nelhybel’s ‘Overture
for Orchestra.”

Other Rockbridge Fine Arts
Workshop events for the 1982-83
season will include two special
events; performances of Henry
Purcell’s ‘‘Dido and Aeneas”’ on
February 4th and a program by
the Youth Orchestra and Dance
Company on March 19. The
Spring Concert of the Chorus
and Orchestra will be on March
26 and 27. The Chorus, Or-
chestra and Youth Orchestra
will all perform in the Pops Con-
cert on May 21. The Summer
Fine Arts Workshop will extend
from June 27 to July 27.

The adult chorus and or-
chestra are sponsored by
United Virginia Bank. All three
groups are supported by the
Rockbridge Fine Arts Work-
shop, using grants from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts,
the Virginia Arts Commission,
and Rockbridge County.
The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982, Page 9

 

 

 

William Schaufele

Tuesday

Ex-ambassador speaks

The EC-IFC funded speakers
program kicks off the year’s
program with Ambassador Wil-
liam E. Schaufele Jr.

The one-time U.S. Am-
bassador to Poland will lecture
on ‘Poland and Foreign
Policy,” Monday, Nov. 15, at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel. The event is
open to the public .

Schaufele was born in Lake-
wood, Ohio, on Dec. 7, 1923.
After three years of military du-
ty during World War II in which
he served with the 10th Ar-
mored Division in Europe, he
received his A.B. Degree from
Yale University in 1948 and a
master’s degree in interna-
tional affairs from Columbia
University’s School of Interna-
tional Affairs in 1950. He
entered the United States
Foreign Service the same year.

During a 30-year Foreign Ser-
vice career Schaufele served in
a wide variety of posts in Ger-
many, Morocco, the Congo
(now Zaire) and the State
‘Department. In 1969 he became
Ambassador to the West
African Republic of Upper
Volta, where he served for two
years.

From 1971 to 1975 Am-
bassador Schaufele was assign-
ed to the United States Mission
and to the United Nations in
New York, where he serverd
succeessively as Senior Adviser
to the Permanent Represen-
tative and Deputy U.S. Repre-
sentative in the Security Coun-
cil. He had the primary respon-
sibility for coordinating the
work of the permanent U.S.
Mission and of U.S. delegations
to the annual sessions of the
General Assembly. In
November 1975, after a_ brief
tour of duty as Inspector
General of the U.S. Foreign Ser-
vice, Schaufele was appointed
by President Ford as Assistant
Secretary of State for African
Affairs, heading the State
Department Bureau that coor-
dinates and implements U.S.
policy toward the 50 nations of
the African region.

He held that post until Presi-
dent Carter appointed him U.S.
Ambassador to Poland. He held

Wednesday

 

_ Dr. Robert J.C. Butow, pro-
fessor of history at the School of
International Studies of the
University of Washington (Seat-
tle), will discuss his recent
discovery of ‘“‘The FDR Tapes”’
on Wednesday, Nov. 17, in the
Northen auditorium of Wash-
ington and Lee’s University
Library.

Butow’s presentation, which
will include excerpts from the
actual tapes, will begin at 8
p.m. and will be open to the
public. His visit is being spon-
sored by the department of
history at W&L.

The lecture will describe the
contents of the tape recording
that President Roosevelt made
of conversations he had with
visitors to the White House in
1940 and will also discuss
Butow’s discovery of the
materials in the Roosevelt
Library at Hyde Park, N.Y.

that post until the end of
September 1980.

Mike Drinkwater, co-
chairman of Contact, said that
no other speakers had yet been
selected for the year.

 

Calendar

 

Thursday, Nov. 11

VETERAN’S DAY
4:30 p.m. — Lecture: Prof. Yueh-er Kuo, Univ. of Tenn. Robinson 6,
preceded by coffee at 4 p.m., Robinson 21. Public invited. Spon-
sored by the Math Dept.
5 p.m, — Chemistry seminar: Development of the Anti-Cancer
Drug. Dr. Bart van’t Riet, Dept. of Pharmaceutical Chemistry,
MCV-VCU. Howe 401. Preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402,
TBA.

Friday, Nov. 12

Away Athletic Event: Water Polo: Eastern Championships, TBA

Saturday, Nov. 13
Away Athletic Events: Football: Georgetown. Cross Country:
NCAA Regional Qualifying Meet, Lynchburg. Water Polo: Eastern
Championships, TBA.

Sunday, Nov. 14
Away Athletic Event: Water Polo: Eastern Championships, TBA.

Monday, Nov. 15
8 p.m. — Reading: Ann Beattie, writer and lecturer, Univ. of Va.
Sponsored by the Glasgow Committee. DuPont Auditorium.
8 p.m. — Lecture: “The Individual, Community and Society:
Rights and Responsibilities." Dr. Colin M. Turnbull, an-
thropologist. Lewis Hall Moot Courtoom. Sponsored by the Frances
Lewis Law Center and the Tucker Law Forum. Public invited.
Tuesday, Nov. 16
4:30 p.m. — Lecture: Prof. Henry Sharp, Emory Univ. Robinson 6,
preceded by coffee at 4 p.m., Robinson 21. Sponsored by the Math
dept. Public invited.
7&9p.m. — Film: Casablanca. Directed by Michael Curtis. Spon-
sored by the Dept. of Journalism and Communications. Reid Hall

oe Wednesday, Nov. 17

Christmas Bazaar: R.E. Lee Memorial Church. Lunch will be
available.

7 p.m. — Swimming: Generals vs. VMI and The University of Rich-
mond, Twombly pool.

8 p.m. — Lecture: ‘‘The FDR Tapes.” Rebert J.C. Butow, professor
of History, University of Washington. Sponsored by the History
Dept. Northen Auditorium, public invited.

Professor’s wife dies

LEXINGTON—Betsy Lloyd — nifer Lloyd Taylor, Carol Eborn
Taylor, the head librarian at Taylor, and Herman Ward
Waddell Elementary School in — Taylor III.

Lexington, died Friday at a

Roanoke hospital. She was 47.
She is survived by her hus-
band, Herman Ward Taylor Jr.,
professor of ancient languages
at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, and by three children, Jen-

A native of Raleigh, N.C., and
a graduate of the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
she had served as the librarian
at Waddell School for the past 14
years.

Butow’s findings received na-
tional attention, including
stories in Time and Newsweek
magazines last January as well
as a number of interviews on
both radio and television.

The discovery was the subject
of two articles published by
Butow in American Heritage.
The first article, entitled ‘‘The
FDR Tapes: Secret Recordings
Made in the Oval Office of the
President in the Autumn of
1940,"’ appeared in the
February/March 1982 issue.
The second article, ‘‘How FDR
Got His Tape Recorder,” ap-
peared in the October/Novem-
ber 1982 issue.

Since 1960, Butow has held a
joint appointment in the School
of International Studies and the
department of history of the
University of Washington. Prior
to that, he taught at Princeton

Finder of FDR tapes talks

University, while concurrently
serving as a research associate
in the Center of International
Studies. —

A recipient of several
prestigious fellowships, Butow
is the author of ‘‘Japan’s Deci-
sion to Surrender,’’ ‘‘Tojo and
the Coming of the War,”
(Japanese translations of both
these works have been publish-
ed in Japan) and “The John Doe
Associates,’’ as well as articles
on Japanese-American rela-
tions on the eve of the Pacific
War.

A graduate of Stanford
University from which he also
received both the M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees, Butow is cur-
rently engaged in research in
the areas of the United States in
East Asia, 1784-1945, and
Franklin D. Roosevelt’s life,
1882-1945.

The Cockpit
W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

8
To The
Bar

 

November 16

“It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982

 

Sports

 

A-Country, polo capture crowns

Water polo sweeps league

 

Eyes closed in relief, Junior Angus McBryde crosses the finish
line of W&L’s 8000-meter course. Last Saturday McBryde placed
second to lead the harriers to their first ODAC title ever. (W&L
photo by Ken Ries.)

Coaches honor Miller

 

Harriers win ODAC

The Washington and Lee
cross country team and Coach
Dick Miller each achieved a
first this past Saturday as the
harriers won the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Champion-
ship race.

Led by junior Angus McBryde |

(Charlotte, N.C.) and sopho-
more Frank Pittman (Atlanta,
Ga.), the Generals tallied 45
points to squeak by defending
champion Roanoke College’s 51
points and Lynchburg College’s
53 to capture the crown for the
first time in the ODAC’s seven-
year history. Catholic Universi-
ty (87), Bridgewater (134),
Eastern Mennonite (159) and
Hampden-Sydney (197) round-
ed out the field.

“TI couldn’t have asked for a
better performance,’’ com-
mented Miller, who was select-
ed at the meet as conference
Coach-of-the-Year by the other
coaches. “‘It was simply a case
of how much everybody wanted
the title. Our runners wanted it
more than the other runners.”

McBryde placed second and
Pittman fifth in the 56-runner
field to earn All-Conference
honors, which are given to the
top seven finishers. McBryde
turned in a time of 26:57 for the
8000-meter course, just 17
seconds behind Runner-of-the-
Year Grattan Garbee from

Lynchburg; Pittman clocked in
at 27:35. Senior Captain Jon
Kelafant (Staunton, Va.) placed
ninth, freshman Bob Glenn (Ro-
anoke, Va.) 12th, and freshman
Ron Moody (Brewton, Ala.;
17th to complete W&L’s scoring.

McBryde, Pittman, Kelafant,
Glenn, Moody, along with junior
Paul Chapman (Short Hills,
N.J.) and sophomore Mark
Pembroke (Shorewood, Wis.)
will travel this Saturday to
Lynchburg College to compete
in the NCAA Division III South
Regional Qualifying meet.
Fourteen teams may compete
in the race; the top two teams
and top three individuals not
associated with those teams
will earn spots in the NCAA
Division III Championships to
be held November 20 at Fre-
donia (N.Y.) State College.
W&L placed fourth in last
year’s qualifying meet held in
Nashville, Tenn.

The conference crown is
W&L’s first cross country title
of any kind since 1972 when the
team won the College Athletic
Conference meet. Miller’s
award is the first such honor he
has captured in his 31 years as
the General’s coach. Previous-
ly, the harriers’ best ODAC per-
formance has been fourth
place.

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

The W&L water polo Generals
showed the stuff champions are
made of last weekend as they
swept through the Southern
League Championsips to the
finals where they outclassed a
bewildered Richmond team to
take the title.

Along the way to the cham-
pionship game, the Generals
posted victories over Duke
(16-5), UNC-Wilmington (14-4),
George Washington (12-1), and
Virginia (22-6). The five wins
closed out an unblemished 13-0
slate for Southern League play
and upped their overall season
record to 25-7.

“There was a matter of pride
involved in the Richmond
game,” said fourth-year head
coach Page Remillard. “We
believed we were the better
team, and we wanted to make
sure nobody else misunderstood
who was the better team,” he
added, emphasizing the intensi-

ty that was present during the
weekend. “You could see the
pressure evolving during the
week,’’ noted Remillard, speak-
ing of the players demanding
the very best of themselves for
the championships.

The very best is what Coach
Remillard got from every
member of his squad through-
out the tournament. Even subs
like Keith Kadesky, Scott
Johnstone and Scott Van Meter
turned in stellar performances
in tight situations. Remillard
cited the Generals’ team unity
as another key to W&L’s suc-
cess.

The championship pairing
between Richmond and W&L
was what the Generals were
waiting for. W&L was seeking
revenge for their loss to the
Spiders in the Virginia State
Championships the week prior.
The Generals persevered and
forced Richmond into
numerous second half
mistakes. Rebounding from a

Booters end season
with 3-0 victory

The Washington and Lee soc-
cer team closed out the season
last Tuesday with a 3-0 home
victory over Virginia Wesleyan
College to end the year at 8-3-2.
Seniors Tad Renner (Raleigh,
N.C.) and Tom Elder (Norfolk,
Va.) and sophomore Rob Cole-
man (St. Louis, Mo.) each
scored once to lead the
Generals’ effort.

‘“‘We took the steps, achieved
the goals we set out to achieve
this fall,’ offered seventh-year
coach Rolf Piranian. ‘‘We were
in the thick of the conference
race (finishing 3-1-2 to tie for se-
cond place), stayed in the
NCAA Division III play-off pic-
ture most of the season, and
came up just short of making
VISA (Virginia Intercollegiate
Soccer Association) tourna-
ment.”

Piranian cites the team’s six
seniors as the major con-
tributors to the squad’s success.
“We said before the season
began that to be successful we’d
have to get good play and
leadership from the seniors.
They lived up to that challenge.
They’re the best seniors I’ve
worked with.”

Five seniors — Elder at for-
ward, Renner on defense, Kirk
Mancer (Philadelphia, Pa.) in

the goal, Brad Poorman

(Miami, Fla.) at forward, and
Mark Carduner (Hightstown,
Pa.) at midfield — started
throughout the season. Backing
up at forward was classmate
(Hilton Head

Jerry Moyer
Island, S.C.).

Poorman led the team in
goals scored with 10 while he,
Carduner, and Moyer each had
four assists on the season. Elder
chipped in four goals, Carduner
two, and Renner one en route to
setting a W&L season record for
most goals (38). Mancer col-
lected 71 saves while allowing
just 11 goals for a save average
of 87 percent. He finished his
career with 11 shutouts to tie
with Kevin Carney. (1980) for
the team record in that
category.

Piranian is quick to compli-
ment the efforts of the under-
classmen. ‘‘Graduating five
starters might lead people to
say we'll be weak next fall. But
our junior, sophomore, and
freshman classes all have a
good nucleus. We’ll continue to
be competitive and successful.”
Junior Roland Simon (Edge-
wood, Md.), who collected three
goals this fall, and Coleman,
who had four, have been named
as captains for the 1983 squad.

 

- 5-3 halftime deficit,

W&L
outscored UR 10-2 in the second
half to take a 13-7 victory and
the championship.

Pacing the Generals on the
weekend were sophomore Bob-
by Pearson with 12 goals, junior
Matt Ravencraft with 14 goals,
and senior scoring force Erik
Peterson, who led the team with
16.

This weekend the Generals -
travel to Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Eastern Championships,
where they are seeded sixth.
Remillard promises that the
team hasn’t reached its peak
yet and has the ability to get to
the finals. The Generals’ first
round opponent will be Navy,
who has beaten W&L by a total
of five goals in two contests.
‘“‘We are confident that we can
beat Navy,” said Coach Re-
millard, adding, ‘‘It will
show just how tough our nucleus
_"

BECAUSE OF
CHEMOTHERAPY
KAREN
ANDERSON

ISA STATISTIC.

THE KIND OF
STATISTIC

WE LIKE TO
BRAG ABOUT.

When Karen was 18
years old, her doctor dis-
covered she had a deadly
form of leukemia. Facing
incredible odds, Karen
spent three years in inten-
sive chemotherapy.

Now, eight years and
two sons later, you'd never
suspect that she had bat-
tled a disease that kills
more than 15,000 Amer-
icans every year.

Your donations help us
continue the programs
that will give us more sta-
tistics like Karen Ander-
son. Statistics we can all

be proud of.

GIVE TO THE
AMERICAN
CANCER SOCIETY.

This space contributed as a public service
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1982, Page 11

Generals whitewash Cardinals

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Sports Writer

W&L’s senior football players
made their final performance
on Wilson Field a memorable
one as the Generals obliterated
Catholic University 41-0 Satur-
day.
‘We had a good week of prac-
tice,’ observed W&L Coach
Gary Fallon. “We seemed to
have a lot of enthusiasm. It was
an enjoyable game for the
players. It was one of those
days you hope never ends,” he
concluded.

W&L raised its record to 4-4
with one game remaining.
Catholic sustained its third
defeat against five wins.

W&L dominated the game
from the outset. W&L’s
sophomore quarterback John
Thompson connected with
senior tailback Chris Cavalline
on a spectacular 62-yard
touchdown pass at 12:57 of the
first quarter to give the
Generals a 7-0 lead.

Cavalline ran a delay pattern
against the grain, and caught
the ball about five yards
downfield in the right flat. He
left the linebacker who was
covering him in the dirt, and
then blew past a Catholic
defender another 40 yards
downfield to go into the endzone
untouched.

“That long pass from Thomp-
son to Cavalline was what ig-
nited us. I think that was the
key to what was to follow,”’ said
Fallon.

The next time W&L touched
the ball the Generals increased
their lead to 10-0. A 16-yard gain
on a pass from junior Al
Paradise to sophomore Gene
Girard, and a _ subsequent
Catholic penalty for a late hit,
were the key features of the
drive. Senior Bill Devine cap-
ped the drive with a 22-yard
field goal with 2:33 left in the
quarter.

On the next play from scrim-
mage, W&L senior defensive
back Gene Fellin made a leap-
ing interception of a Catholic
pass at the Cardinal 47-yard
line. The Generals could not
move the ball though, and it ap-
peared they would lose posses-
sion. However, Catholic was
charged with roughing the
kicker, and the Generals picked
up 15 yards and a first down.

After the penalty, senior
Steve Corbeille hauled in a pass
from Thompson at the 7-yard
line, hanging onto the ball
despite taking a vicious hit. One
play later, Thompson connected
with Sophomore Ian Banwell on
a 4-yard touchdown pass to give
W&L a 17-0 lead six seconds into
the second quarter.

An interception return by
senior defensive back Marty
Thomas set up the next W&L
touchdown. A two play drive
was topped off by Al Paradise’s
3-yard touchdown sneak with
9:33 left in the half. The extra
point gave the Generals a com-
manding 24-0 lead at the half.

W&L slowed down a little in

*

 

Senior quarterback Al Paradise is a blur as he scampers past a Catholic defender for six points Satur-
day at Wilson Field. The Generals drubbed the Cardinals 41-0 in improving their record to 4-4.

the third quarter, only scoring
three more points. Bill Devine
nailed his eighth field goal of
the season, a school record,
from 41 yards out at 12:51 of the
third quarter to increase the
lead to 27-0.

W&L continued the carnage
when Al Paradise scored on a
10-yard run with 12:02 in the
game to give W&L a gaudy 34-0
lead. Freshman Frank Surface
picked up a key first down in a
fourth down situation to keep
the drive going.

Midway through the fourth
quarter W&L put the finishing
touches on their biggest shutout

Swimming with Olympians

By LEE NICHOLS
Phi Sports Editor

Another successful water polo
season is drawing to a close, the
product of long hours and hard
work which began the very first
week of school. But for Head
Coach Page Remillard and
three W&L players, water polo
action began in the middle of
July in Indianapolis, Indiana,
the site of the 1982 National
Sports Festival.

Sponsored by the National
Olympic Committee, the Na-
tional Sports Festival gives
hopefuls for the 1984 Olympics a
chance to demonstrate their
abilities in a nation-wide com-
petition. Thousands of athletes
from across the nation par-
ticipate in 33 different sporting
events ranging from archery to
yachting, with the Olympic
Committee picking up the tab
for all travel expenses and ac-
commodations.

Among those participating in
the Festival were Remillard
and three of his star per-
formers: senior Erik Peterson
and juniors Rand McClain and
Matt Ravencraft. Remillard,
who served last year as assis-

tant coach of the East team,
was chosen to skipper the South
squad this year. Among the
players he had to work with
were Peterson, McClain and
Ravencraft, who were chosen to
participate in the Festival bas-
ed upon their performance in
water polo at the collegiate
level.

Remillard knew that he and
his team had their work cut out
for them, for in the previous
four years the South Team had
been unable to win even a single
match in the round-robin event.
The team faced an imposing
task, but rose to the occasion.

When the water had finally
calmed, the South had ac-
complished what no one had
thought possible. Not only did
they win their first match ever;
they continued to win until final-
ly bowing to a powerful West
team in the Championship
game.

The fact that the South team
turned in such an admirable
performance was_ naturally
rewarding to the coaches and
players. But according to
Remillard, just participating in
the Festival was reward

enough. ‘‘Being the coach of the
South team was the ultimate
coaching experience short of
the Olympics. For the players,
the Festival was the ultimate in
participation due to the national
recognition it generated.”’

“This was a very emotional
experience for Erik, Rand and
Matt, as well as all the other
athletes. Several of the boys
were fighting back tears of joy
after the championship game
was over.” Remillard also
states that the Festival was a
great deal of fun. ‘‘I was asked
to sign autographs, as were
several of my players. The fans
in Indianapolis were great...
they were especially ap-
preciative of the high level of
competition.”’

One thing that Remillard is
quick to point out is something
that he has known all along
—that W&L has athletes
capable of competing on the na-
tional level. ‘Our boys found
out that they can compete on a
level with many athletes that
are on scholarship at big
universities. They’re as good as
anyone else.”’

 

win since 1961 with a touchdown
set up by another Marty
Thomas interception. Frank
Surface rolled 10 yards for a
touchdown and the 41-0 final
margin of victory.

Defensively, the Generals
completely shut down the
highly touted Catholic offense
all day. W&L held Catholic to
-18 yards rushing and _in-
tercepted five Cardinal passes.

Coach Fallon was extremely
proud of his team’s perfor-
mance, and especially of his
seniors. ‘“‘That’s what they are
made of. I was really proud and
glad for the team,”’ he stated.

W&L plays their final game of
the season Saturday versus
Georgetown University in
Washington D.C. The Generals
must win the game to finish
with a 5-4 record and their third
consecutive winning season.
“We can’t go up there thinking
Georgetown is just going to lay

down. We want to go up there
with a confident attitude, not a
cocky attitude,” Fallon stated.

For some of W&L’s players,
Saturday’s game will be their
first experience playing on ar-
tificial turf. Not only is
Georgetown’s Kehoe Field
covered with artificial grass,
but the field is located on top of
a building. ‘‘We call it playing
on an aircraft carrier,’’
remarked Fallon.

Fallon indicated that he will
probably continue to rotate his
quarterbacks and running
backs as he did in the Catholic
game. ‘“‘We’ve got some dif-
ferent talent that the defense
has got to gear up against,”’ ex-
plained Fallon.

Georgetown is also 4-4 on the
season. They lost two weeks ago
to Catholic 19-18. The series be-
tween W&L and Georgetown is
tied at 9-9.

 

Freshman running back Frank Surface looks to the sidelines as
the officials unanimously indicate that he has in fact crossed the
goal line.

a ey
Lexington dry goods company
“Only The Very Best"

   
  
    
 
     

[PALMS Opera house]

(Thursday)
Motive —9-1:00

WOOL SALE _Pibinddinithin dnehebooichiel
ALL WOOL GOODS

Peeeeersanecneses

Reduced
20% :

SECRET ROTOR EEEREE

UN

=Convertibles — 9:30-1:30

PER BRRRRRRRER EERE SR

WIDE SCREEN MOVIES 1:00 — Butch Cassidy
3:00 — Casablanca

Happy Hour 3-6 Drafts...50°
Pitchers...$3.§0

thea ESEEEUU PEPE RP EEUU PEPE LEPEPEEEETTTTLTTerrr yn

 

HT

   

Convertibles — 9:30-1:30
WIDE SCREEN TV ALL DAY

: = Tuesday Nite All You Can Eat $3.99
MASTER CARD —— VISA — STUDENT CHARGE E = | .
ee an AANA Hl qn

——— = RECORDS =

Fri. - Sat. Only

TTT SANTA TUNA

     
 
 

  

 

 
 
   
 

| CORNER4-
| Great Selection

Lowest Prices
Beale mes

 

 

The science of sound

See You This Weekend On The Corner

  
  

VOLUME 82

Ring

NUMBER 11

-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia November 18, 1982

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Alumnus monitors

international trade

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

“Smokestack America is on
the verge of extinction if it can’t
face the competition or gain
protectionism,’ Dr. Alfred E.
Eckes Jr., chairman of the
United States International
Trade Commission, told a group
of W&L students Thursdav.

Eckes, a 1964 graduate of
W&L, spoke to John M. Gunn’s
International Trade class and
later to the International Law
Society at W&L law school dur-
ing his recent Lexington visit.

The I.T.C. is a government
agency which _ investigates
violations of US trade law, and
has the power to impose tariffs
and quotas on unfairly traded
imports. President Reagan
named Eckes an I.T.C. commis-
sioner in May 1981, and elevated
him to chairman on June 17 of
this year.

Eckes said in an interview

that a number of factors have
led to a sharp upturn in imports
by the United States, hurting
our domestic manufacturers.
“This surge in imports is
especially affecting our older,
established industries Steel,

automobiles, and textiles,’’ he

said. ‘‘Soon, we'll see the effects
in fields like pharmaceuticals,
computers, and semiconduc-
tors.

‘Most of our industries are
under attack from improved
competition, and it’s going to
get worse before it gets better."

The world is facing what
Eckes calls a “global reces-
sion.’ He points to unemploy-
ment of 32 million among the
developed countries alone.
“This recession has led to in-
creasing government subsidies
of firms so that they can see

their goods into the United
States clear and easy.”

Another factor in the increase
of exports to this country is the
strength of the American
dollar. ‘Since 1980,” Eckes
said, ‘‘the dollar has gained 25
to 30 percent against European
currencies, making it easier for
Europeans to ship into the
United States.”’

Eckes also cites ‘‘lagging pro-
duction’ and high wage rates as
disadvantages for American
firms. ‘Steel workers in this
country earn about $21 an
hour,” he said. ‘‘In Japan, they
earn half of that, and in Korea,
they make half of that.’’

The combined effect of these
conditions, the commissioner
said, has been ‘‘a number of un-
fair trade practices.’’ These in-
clude subsidies and ‘dumping
— selling goods at less than
their fair market value.”

A recent phenomenon is the
counterfeiting of American
goods, a problem Eckes calls
“quite widespread.”’

He said that this practice is
bringing “increasing volumes
of complaints to the I.T.C. and
to Federal courts.’’ He added,
“This suggests the need for
some sort of international con-
trol. We need to provide some
common standards.”

It is the function of the Inter-
national Trade Commission,
which Dr. Eckes heads, to com-
bat some of these problems
through the imposition of
quotas, tariffs, and negotiated
marketing agreements.

“We administer trade laws

designed to protect damaged in-

dustries,’’ Eckes told a report-
er. ‘‘We apply the law as writ-
ten, not make it,’’ he emphasiz-
ed.

(continued on page 6)

 

 

W

Happy Thanksgiving
HEF

TRAVEL
SUV ine

Ski Austria From $599

(Includes Flight and Hotel For 1 Week!)

 

 

 

19 South Main

Lexington, Va.

463-2197

 

 

 

 

»

 

William Schaufele Jr., former U.S. ambassador to Poland, tells an audience in Lee Chapel Monday

night that the Reagan administration has mishandled the Soviet pipeline sanctions from the beginning.

(Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Schaufele speaks on Soviets

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

William E. Schaufele, Jr.,
former United States Am-
bassador to Poland, told a
university audience Monday
night that he sees no prospects
for an easing of tensions in
Poland or better relations be-
tween the United States and the
Soviet Union.

“The Soviets will make any
sacrifice that’s necessary to
keep up with the United States
in an arms race,”’ he said. “‘If
their people have to starve,
that’s all right.”’

Schaufele made his remarks
at the first presentation in this
year’s Contact series, which is
sponsored jointly by the Inter-
fraternity Council and the Ex-
ecutive Committee of the stu-
dent body.

He told the audience that the
new Soviet regime of Yuri An-
dropov will be ‘tempted to
show its manhood. If one ex-

pects the new leadership to
make concessions on important
issues like Poland and Afghan-
istan, that’s a mistake.”

According to Schaufele, An-
dropov could have a number of
his own problems with which to
cope. “I think a military coup in
the Soviet Union is possible,’’ he
said. “‘What was once un-
thinkable is now being thought
about by experts.

Turning to Poland, Schaufele
said the “sudden release’’ of
Solidarity leader Lech Walesa
is ‘‘good politics for the regime,
but I’m not sure how much good
it'll do.”’

He added that ‘‘it’s too early

to say what Walesa will do as a

free man. Some say he’ll be
able to do whatever he wants.
That’s nonsense,”’

Asked about possible Soviet
interference in Poland, Schau-
fele told his listeners, ‘‘As long
as they’re convinced (Polish
leader Gen. Wojciech)

The Red Front Grocery

is giving away a

Free Freezer

Register now, drawing on
December 24.

Pepsi—8 Ss ec beevetacs $1.39 plus deposit

Bush—12-pack

Seb hae ts has eee eee

We have Moosehead Collector’s Boxes!

 

Jaruzelski can do the job,
they’ll be satisfied. ..The
Communist Party for all prac-
tical purposes is dead.’’ He said
it was “killed” and “‘lost its
credibility’ during the Solidari-
ty demonstrations. He pointed
out that it is Polish internal
security that has enforced mar-
tial law rather than the mili-

tary.

Schaufele says that there
would be ‘“‘concerted reaction
from the West”’ to a Soviet inva-
sion. In fact, he said there was
an agreement, ‘‘never made
public,’ among the NATO
powers regarding action to be
taken in such an event.

Likely results, Schaufele
says, would be that our
“economic and commercial
relationship would be cut to
zero,’’ the number of restricted
strategic materials would in-
crease, and the availability of
pipeline materials would be cut
sharply.

Schaufele said, ‘‘I think the
sanction question has been very
badly handled from the impos-
ing of the sanctions to the lifting
of the sanctions.”’

He said that although he
doesn’t oppose sanctions, ‘‘that
doesn't mean that  they’ll
work.”’

“The Polish people support
American sanctions against the
regime despite their own pro-
blems,”’ he said.

He said American aid has
been important ‘‘psychological-
ly,’’ and was partly responsible
for ‘‘the rapidity with which
Solidarity succeeded.”’
The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1982, Page 5

 

  

Ann Beattie, a short story writer whose works have appeared in

  

—

The New Yorker, spoke Monday night in duPont Auditorium. Her
appearance was sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment, which
brings professional literary artists to campus. (W&L photo by Pat

Hinely ) ,

 

EC counts dollars

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

The Executive Committee
heard reports from the Student
Telephone Union, the Student
Financial Relations Commit-
tee, and the Student Emergency
Loan Committee at its Monday
night meeting.

Lee Feldman of the Student
Telephone Union (STU) report-
ed that both STU and Centel are
in favor of STU’s incorporating.
It had been suggested in an
earlier meeting that STU havea
law professor draw up the ar-
ticles of incorporation in order
that the organization might
save the $350 attorney’s fees.

‘‘We’d rather have somebody
more permanent in the com-
munity do it so that they can
relay our intent to the EC and
STU in the future,’ Lee
Feldman of STU reported.

Representative Ken Ter-
willeger suggested that there
were several law professors
who were well-established in
the community and capable of
handling the job.

Randall Jacoby of the Student
Financial Relations Commit-
tee, formerly Cold Check,
reported to the EC that they had
picked up a large number of
checks bounced by students
who graduated last year or left
W&L for other reasons. The

     
     
   

Foot long hot dogs

Lois’s Place
159 S. Main St.

We specialize in,

Homemade beef stew
Swiss cheeseburgers

We also have:

Breakfast.and Lunch Specials |

committee currently has 53
checks which have not been
paid.» Jacoby estimated that
these checks are distributed
among not more than 35 people,

saying “some people have
seven or eight bounced
checks.”’

Frank Eppes, chairman of
the Student Emergency Loan
Committee said that the com-
mittee has given out $715 in
loans thus far this year. The
committee has collected $900 of
the $2600 in outstanding loans
from last year.

Morgan Griffith, who was act-
ing president in Bennett Ross’s
absence, said he was ‘‘sorely
dissappointed in the advertis-
ing’ of Monday night’s speaker
by Contact. Griffith complained
that there were no posters put
up in the law school. John
Viahoplus moved that the EC
“castigate the chairmen of Con-
tact for failing to publicize the
speaker and to recommend that
they look into the possibility of
adding a law school member.”’
The motion passed unanimous-
ly.
Lee Feldman, speaking as a
student, stated that he thought
that this year’s committee

“was attracting second-rate
speakers”’ and that the poor at-
tendance reflected poorly on the
university,

  

Og

yg ee ee ees

 

Re

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

DuPont auditorium was buzz-

_ ing with the chatter of an expec-

tant crowd Tuesday night when
Ann Beattie entered the room
unnoticed. Famous for her pro-
vocative works published
periodically in The New Yorker
since 1973, she would soon read
two of her short stories to the
comfortable crowd of students,
professors and local notables.
They got more than they ex-
pected.

Professor Boatwright of the
English Department made the
introductions with calm and
relaxing wit as the group settled
down for the reading. Beattie
has written two novels ‘‘Chilly
Scenes of Winter” and ‘Falling
into Place” and published three
collections of short stories. °

Beattie took the podium and
put her papers down, pausing
before the crowd with her long
brown hair hanging down
almost awkwardly. Not a word
for a moment and then she slow-
ly swept her hair back and
began to speak ina soft voice.

The first story she read, call-
ed ‘‘Gravity,’’ was published in
The New Yorker, June 2, 1980.
Beattie cast a spell as she
related the story of a woman in
love with a man named Nick
who was now staying with his
old lover of ten years past, Bar-
bara.

‘As a child, I got lost in the
woods once,’’ Beattie read. “‘I
had a dandelion with me, and
I used it, hopelessly, like a
flashlight, the yellow center,
my imaginary beam. My
parents who- might have saved
me, were drunk at a back-yard
party as I kept walking the
wrong way, away from the
houses I might have seen. I
walked slower and slower, be-
ing afraid.

“Nick makes a lot of that. He
thinks I am lost in my life. ‘All
right,’ I say as he nudges me to
walk faster. ‘Everything’s sym-
bolic.’ ”

Beattie paused before going
on to her second story.

Then she told us about a man
who had been divorced and
remarried. The story is called
‘Desire’ and it was published
in The New Yorker on June 14,
1982. The man, whose name is
B.B. lives with Rona. Bryce, his
son by his first wife Robin, is
visiting them. Bryce is only a
young boy. There are no spec-

 

Hamric & Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

} |

 

 

tacular events in the story. B.B.
and Rona are living their lives
in quiet futility, bickering con-
stantly over nothing.

‘“*B.B. reached out to dry his
son’s tears, or at least to touch
them, but Bryce sprang up. She
was wrong: Robin was so
wrong. Bryce was the image of
her not him — the image of
Robin saying, ‘Leave me
alone,’ ”’ Beattie read.

‘“‘People think I know the
writing business, but I really
don’t,’’ she said. But she must,
because she is_ teaching
creative writing to graduate
and undergraduate students at
the University of Virginia this
fall. She is only doing it for this
fall term and then she says she
is going to go lock herself away
and write for a while.

“T got started writing as a
hobby,” she said. ‘“‘When I was
in graduate school, I hated it so
much I started writing short
stories at night.

| Writer captures audience

‘A friend started taking them
and putting them in envelopes
and mailing them off,’’ Beattie
said. ‘‘And one of the places he
was mailing them to was The
New Yorker.’’ Publication in
1976 of her novel ‘‘Chilly Scenes
of Winter’ and a collection of
short stories from The New
Yorker, ‘‘Distortions,” launch-
ed her as a major literary
figure in America.

Beattie’s critics have brand-
ed her the spokeswoman of a
generation. ‘‘Critics are think-
ing that if they read a story by
me they are reading about all
the people who grew up in the
60s.’’ She disclaims that role.
“It is not as though I write to
prove a point, that I have a
thesis,’’ she said.

Her charcaters ‘‘have too
much money and too much
time,”’ Beattie said. ‘“‘Notice I
did not say what job, B.B. had in
‘Desire.’ I skirt the issue.”’

 

)

 

 

?

 

 

 

 

uccdays

   

IN

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

Jason
and the Jags

November 30

The Deal
Sat., Dec. 4

 

 

 

“It's The Place To Be’

Or

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 W. Nelson 463-2022

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1982

HOURS:

Mon.-Sat. 9am-lam

Sun. 10am-lam

 

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va. 463-3338

 

Eckes speaks

(continued from page 4)

‘*We don’t purport to be a ma-
jor player in the trade scene ex-
cept what’s assigned to us,’’ he
said. That belies the impor-
tance of an agency that The
New York Times said in an
editorial has ‘‘wide authority.”

The Commission consists of
six members, no more than
three of whom may be from any
one political party. Eckes said
the I.T.C., which he character-
ized as having ‘extraordinary
independence,” is “bipartisan
in composition, but nonpartisan
in operation.”

Like the courts, the I.T.C. has
become increasingly overload-
ed. In 1969, for example, it
handled ten cases. This year, it
will handle between 260 and 270,
triple the number it dealt with
in the last fiscal year. ‘‘These
cases are all different,”’ Eckes
said. ‘‘Every one has a different
twist.”

He’s proud of the fact that
since 1917, when it came into be-
ing as the United States Tariff
Commission, the I.T.C. has
spent less than $20 million.

 

——————— La

AIT YEARS FO

YOU CAN

    

In addition to its investigative
and regulatory functions, Eckes
also cited the I.T.C.’s role’ in
providing information to in-
dustry and government. ‘We
call attention to trends without
providing prescriptions.”

In deciding a case, he said,
they look for “significant under-
selling” and “‘a connection bet-
ween the subsidized import pro-
duct and injury to the domestic
producer or industry.’’

A JOB WITH RESPONSIBILITY,

OR YOU CAN GET

RESPONSIBILITY IN THE NAVY

A civilian job with responsibility may take years to ob-
tain, even with a college degree. But if you meet Navy
Standards, after four months of Officer Candidate
School (OCS), you can become a Navy officer. And that’
means lots of responsibility, a good salary and fringe
benefits, including travel, post-graduate educational
opportunities, 30 days’ paid vacation earned annually,

plus more.

If you’re getting your degree now, contact your col-
lege Placement Office to find out when a Navy
Representative will be on campus. Send your resume

| or call:

Management Opportunities
Navy Recruiting District
8545 Maylord Drive
Richmond, Virginia 23229
(804) 270-3101

 

NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and
Garlic Bread you can eat for

Thy
ED)

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

 

Pizza
siti

PHONE.463-7000

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee alumnus Alfred Eckes :

Eckes says our trade laws
have ‘something of a protec-
tionist caste” to them. ‘They
were designed to protect dam-
aged industries impacted by
imports. They were not de-
signed to aid foreigners.” He .
continued, ‘‘Their function is to
cushion and provide temporary
relief.”’

Nevertheless, Eckes says our
laws have free trade underpin-
nings. As proof, he cited the fact
that in 1930, the average tariff
on dutiable goods was 59 per-
cent, while today it is only 5 per-
cent.

“The Administration,” he
said, ‘‘favors enforcing the laws
on the books. We’re for trade,
free and fair. It can’t be free if
it’s not fair.”

Eckes said that with these
problems continuing and _ in-
creasing, ‘‘pressure is building
for a political solution. Protec-
tionism will increasingly be-
come a dominant political
issue.”’

He added, ‘‘It’s likely that if
these import difficulties con-
tinue, there will be growing
pressure on Congress by the in-
dustries being savaged.”’

An important indication of the
trend in international trade
practice, Eckes said, will be the
actions of the General Agree-
ment of Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) ministerial meeting in
Geneva at the end of this month
— its first top-level meeting in
nine years. Eckes says we're
“at a crossroads,’’ and the ac-
tions of the assembled minis-
ters could provide the way to a
“‘more open world.”

That’s not guaranteed, how-
ever, “There’s a lot of bit-
terness on trade issues,’’ Eckes
said. “‘They cut to the quick on
national sovereignty. The pro-
spect of lowering trade barriers
becomes a major political
issue.”’

Eckes was an honors history
student at W&L, and was a
member of the Lambda Chi
Alpha fraternity. He was a Phi
Beta Kappan, and graduated
magna cum laude. The Noell-
Eckes Debate Trophy, awarded
annually to an outstanding W&L
debater, was named in honor of
the commissioner and _his
debating partner, Bill Noell.
The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1982, Page 7

 

W&L tops Hoyas

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Sports Writer

W&L’s football team defeated
Georgetown 6-0 in Washington
D.C. Saturday to sew up the
Generals third consecutive win-
ning season. W&L finished 5-4
overall and 3-2 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

Neither team could mount
much of an offensive attack,
due in part to extremely gusty
wind, W&L netted only 131
yards in total offense;
Georgetown was held to 142
yards of total offense.

W&L’s only score was set up
by senior Marty Thomas’ in-
terception of a Georgetown pass
at the Hoyas’ 17 yard line.
Three plays later sophomore
quarterback John Thompson hit
senior Jerry Thompson with a
15-yard touchdown pass for the
only points the Generals would
need. The conversion attempt
failed.

W&L’s defense, which record-
ed its second shutout in a row,
stymied the Georgetown of-
fense all day. The Generals
recovered three fumbles and in-
tercepted six Georgetown
passes. Sophomore defensive
back Scott Henderson picked off
two Georgetown passes.

‘I’m pleased with the way we
bounced back to finish with a
winning record,”’ stated W&L
Coach Gary Fallon. ‘““When we
lost three in a row our players
could have just washed out the

remaining games. But they put
together one of their best
overall efforts against Catholic
and then came through to beat
Georgetown.”

Once again, senior Chris
Cavalline led the: Generals in
most offensive categories this
year. Cavalline led the team in
rushing with 483 yards and
touchdowns scored with seven
for the season. He shared the

‘team lead in pass receiving

along with senior Jerry Thomp-
son with 19 receptions.
Cavalline also had the longest
run from scrimmage and the
longest pass reception of the
year.

At quarterback, John Thomp-
son and junior Al Paradise both
saw considerable playing time,
and both completed over 50 per-
cent of their passes. Coach
Fallon has previously indicated
that he might play Paradise at
tailback next year in order to
get both Thompson and Para-
dise into the same backfield.

Defensively, three seniors led
the Generals in tackles. Ken
Manganiello notched 55 solo
tackles and John Cole and Dan
Kellermen both recorded 49 solo
tackles.

In the defensive backfield,
senior Marty Thomas led the
Generals with five intercep-
tions. Sophomore Scott Hender-
son picked off four passes and
senior Bob Jenevein in-
tercepted three aerials.

 
 

The Generals’ defense buries a hapless Georgetown ball carrier in last Saturday’s action in
Washington. The day was highlighted by outstanding defense by both teams as W&L defeated the Hoyas

6-0. (W&L photo by Ken Ries.)

Harriers fourth in region

The Washington and Lee
cross country team put the
finishing touch on a successful
season by placing fourth in the
eleven-team NCAA Division III
South Regional meet last Satur-
day in Lynchburg.

The Generals’ 105 score plac-
ed them behind champion
Bethany (W.Va.) College at 74,
host Lynchburg College’s 98,
and Roanoke College’s 103.

Junior Angus McBryde led
W&L over the 8000-meter
course, turning in a 27:48 clock-
ing good for sixth place,
finishing 39 seconds behind the

Clock thwarts polo bid

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

The results of the W&L water
polo Generals’ performance
last weekend don’t tell the
whole story to the close of
another exceptional season.

The final tally from the
Eastern Championships at In-
dianapolis indicates that the
Generals finished with a win
and two defeats and a seventh
place ranking in the eight-team
field. However, a closer look
reveals just how the Generals
were playing. W&L outscored
its opponents on the weekend
40-26, had two players named to
the all-tournament team, and
may have been only 11 seconds
from at least a third place finish
in the tournament.

Remillard spoke of continual
bad breaks and the Generals’
inability to shut the door on the
Midshipmen. An 8-6 third
quarter lead was wiped out by a
3-0 Navy surge. The bad luck for
the Generals continued as Navy
took a 12-11 lead with 11 seconds
remaining. W&L set up for a
final shot, but senior Erik
Peterson, who had 13 goals on
the weekend, had his attempt
hit the post at the buzzer.

Later, Harvard took advan-
tage of an emotionally and

physically drained W&L squad
to gain an 11-9 victory in a very
physical contest that caught the
Generals by surprise. W&L
closed play against state rival
Richmond and thrashed the
Spiders 20-3. “The Richmond
game was an indication of just
how well we were playing,”’
said Remillard. —

Peterson and junior goal-
tender Kevin Kadesky received
second team All-East honors for
their efforts during the
weekend. W&L was the only
team other than the first and se-
cond place finishers (Chicago-
Loyola and Brown) to have two
players on the all-tournament
team.

W&L will lost two keys to
their success as seniors Peter-
son and Bob Marshall will

graduate this year. Remillard
had nothing but praise for the
departing standouts, saying,
“There’s no question that Erik
provided much to our program
as a strong, intimidating, defen-
sive player, and Bob was in-
strumental in our victories. The
team always came first for
-him.’”’ However, the Generals
will return five of six starters
along with goalie Kadesky.
Juniors Rand McClain, Tim
Rock, and Matt Ravencraft will
be back along with sophomore
Bobby Pearson and freshman
Tim Stanford to form a strong
core that Coach Remillard
predicts will bring home more
victories as the Generals look to
make up that 11 seconds from
last weekend.

URGENT!

Worried about your house or apartment while
you’re away on Christmas break?
Responsible MBC student with nowhere to go

for Christmas will house sift.

References available
Call Nancy after 6:30 at 1-885-0811, ext. 267
Room No. 2 — Monday-Thursday

 

winner from Lynchburg, it was
the seventh time in eight com-
petitions this fall that McBryde
paced the team.

Sophomore Frank Pittman
placed eleventh, senior captain
Jon Kelafant 16th, freshman
Bob Glenn 31st, and junior Paul
Chapman 37th to complete
W&L’s scoring in the 79-runner
field.

SEAS 9 ARR: SS © A os A 6 AR <a 4 a 6 <a ¢ <E | <a © © a ©

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES
Large stock of war and fantasy games
Open Mon.-Fri. 10-5; Sat. 10-4
31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

In addition to the Regional
performance, the Generals
earlier posted a 10-2 dual meet
record and won the seventh an-
nual Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championships;
where 3ist-year coach Dick
Miller received the ODAC
Coach-of-the-Year honor. The
10-2 mark tied the team record
for most victories in one season.

      
       

 

Happy Thanksgiving

from

W&L Supply Store
and

Snack Bar

We will close Friday, Nov. 19
at 4:00 p.m. and reopen on
Monday, Nov. 29 at 7:30 a.m.

Upon returning to school; come by
and visit us at the Supply Store and
let us and Color Craft process your
holiday pictures.

ii le ail, laa tiatataciin geet nntenannele
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
    
     

   
 
   

TWIN ornate

(Thursday)

= COUNTRY GRASS EXPRESS—9-00-1:00
Blue ios & Country at its very best

<fON DRY GOODS
WO C
Zo “eN

SALE —

ae =
Ra, ©
es
SR NELSON & JETS

   
 

THE HOUSEROCKERS—29:30-1:30
Top 40 Variety & Old Beach Favorites

SSSessosoeceovcssesegesseeseeseee

= Wide Screen Movies: 1:00—Citizen Kane
Fall Inventory Reduction =z eee Co

Sale Ends November 27 = } 16 ) Ok aaa
Selected groups of fine men’s and women’s clothing and Pitchers oo
sportswear.. slacks, sweaters, sete jackets, skirts, Pree ‘ “Spleens rr)
dresses and more. ETT TEA i eS
= UNION PACIFIC—9:30-1:30
20 % to 40 % off Top 40 Variety & Commercial Rock

 

lexington dry pay company

Cone Nelson & Jefferson

ee
os =

STUDENT CHARGE  Mon.-Sat. _ 9:30-5:30 STUDENT CHARGE

OO NG
SEE ALL THE ACTION ON WIDE SCREEN TV

T_T

) Happy Hour Prices 12-3
GANTT RTT

———_ RECORDS TIRED OF SCHOOL FOOD???

    
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

   
 

 

|

CORNERS” ——
Great Selection

Lowest Prices
On ral Our

pa Tradition’

 

Famous Burger Faseday., .
Char broiled Ys pound burger |
with homemade potato kurls

MMH UIA

COCR EROS RHEE ERED REERHREHEROREORE THE ETEDEFEHROETOHEOR ECE RHFE HOO AT ETHER ETCH REE

Pasta Nite
Wednesday All You Can Eat Only

 

Charbroiled Steak Special
Thursday

 
    

Every Day Attitude Readjustment Hour 5 - 7
Draft...§0° House drinks...$1.00

a

SONY Technics

The sc

 

Have A Great Thanksgiving Break!
  

      

Seiki

VOLUME 82

Rin

NUMBER 12

 

eons FTIRPAV IS AE
" y ct

WASHINGTON &@ LEZ Ui
LEXINGTON War 24460

s-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia December 2, 1982

DEC 3 1982

se rey
o4i YW Reef Rao5 ©

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

 

Holiday

musical

Ebenezer Scrooge, Bob Crat-
chit, Tiny Tim, and the ghosts of
Christmases past, present, and
future will be in Lexington on
Saturday, Dec. 4, at 3:30 p.m.

Charles Dickens’s ‘‘A
Christmas Carol’ is _ being
presented in a dramatic and
musical adaptation by Charles
Jones by the traveling company
of Bill Fegan Associates of
Dallas, Texas. The 24-actor
company will perform
Dickens’s Christmas classic in
authentic period costume and
with elaborate sets this Satur-
day. To glowing reviews, the
co™ pany is touring the country
with ‘ais show for a third
season. It promises to be a_holi-
day extravaganza.

Because the three colleges
are major benefactors of the
Series, W&L, VMI and Southern
Seminary students are admit-
ted free of charge.

Tickets will be on sale Satur-
day morning and afternoon at
the Visitor Center on East
Washington Street.

 

 

 

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

Since the era of the Vietnam
War, American college cam-
puses have not seen the intellec-
tual student activism of the ’60s
that is now reappearing with
the development of the nuclear
freeze issue.

The student Caucus on Peace
and War in Richmond has been
compared to the student ac-
tivist groups of the radical ’60s
decade. The Caucus is an
organization of Virginia Com-

’ monwealth University students
and they are angry and resolv-
ed.

“We support non-military
solutions to political conflict
and we sponsor educational and
political programs to further
this goal. The group supports
the Nuclear Weapons Freeze
Campaign as a sensible first
step in a disarmament move-
ment,” proclaims a Caucus
flyer distributed on the VCU
campus.

On Monday, Nov. 22, Presi-
dent Reagan appeared on na-
tional television to announce his
decision to support a ‘‘dense
pack” basing mode for the pro-
posed MX missiles. The peace
group’s reaction was one of im-
mediate condemnation.

Caucus leaders convened
Tuesday night after Reagan’s
announcement, for a routine

VCU students rally

organizational meeting. It was
a calm group that met. There
was no hype, no fanaticism.
Their comments on Reagan
were made with cool deter-
mination.

“His numbers were all
wrong,’ Bob Holsworth, a
young professor of political
science at VCU and a member
of the Caucus, said. ‘‘Reagan
shouldn’t be giving out that sort
of misinformation under the
guise of being a sort of
educator.”’

Reagan used a series of video
bar graphs indicating the
number of American missiles in
comparison with the number of
Russian missiles to support his
contention that the Soviets have
a dangerous advantage. Actual-
ly the signifigant measure of
advantage or balance between
the two powers is in the number
of warheads deployed by each
country. The United States and
the Soviet Union maintain equal
destructive power in about 7,500
warheads each.

The idea behind the dense
pack basing of the MX is that
the missiles cannot all be im-

mediately destroyed by a Rus-

sian first strike. America would
be able to respond with the MX,
assuring a mutual destruction
of both countries. The Russians
would therefore be deterred
from attacking us

‘That is insane stuff, you

know, ‘If they shoot enough
rockets at us to blow up half the
U.S., we could still respond with
a dense pack,’’’ Kevin Zetena, a
VCU English student, said at
the meeting.

“It is insane,” George Young,
a veteran of the American war
in South-East Asia, said.
“Everybody is talking freeze
and Reagan is talking more
bombs, I saw enough bombs in
Vietnam.”’

Caucus members were in-
censed by Reagan’s mis-
representation of the strategic
weapons balance and by what
they see as an absurdity in the

logic of nuclear deterrent. As
students, they want to do
something about the arms race
and that is why they have
organized the Peace Caucus.

The group is trying to
generate political support of a
freeze on further development,
testing or deployment of
strategic nuclear weapons.
They are selling T-shirts, which
are white with a green tree on
the front and boast the slogan,
“All living things, Richmond
Nuclear Freeze Campaign.”

In early November, a 560 ft.
rope, almost the length of two
football fields, was stretched

EC freezes Contact

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

The Executive Committee
voted unanimously to freeze the
funds of the Contact public
speaker subcommittee at its
meeting Monday night.

This move was prompted by
the absence of a Contact repre-
sentative at the meeting, to pre-
sent Contact’s monthly report
as scheduled. Both President
Bennett Ross and Vice presi-
dent Morgan Griffith said that
they had intended to discuss
Contact’s performance.

The freezing of funds is not an
unusual punishment. Every

club which received funds from
the EC is required to make
reports periodically. If they fail
to do this, their funds may be
frozen until a report is made.

The Student Bar Association
was present for its report.
Treasurer Fred Earley report-
ed that its film series may be
scrapped due to low demand
Also, The Res Ipsa, the six:
month overdue law yearbook,
had been sent to the publishers.
Earley commented that this
year’s boek will probably be
produced as a soft-back editio1
of The Law News.

’60s-style to ban the bomb

across the VCU campus in
downtown Richmond. The rope
was symbolic of the Navy’s new
Trident submarine, which is 560
feet long and carries 408 in-
dependently targetable nuclear
warheads each capable of .
destroying a city of 100,000 per-
sons. Tied to the rope were 408
ribbons representative of the
warheads. The Peace Caucus
asked, ‘‘How much is enough?”’

“If you believe it’s time to
stop this futile and dangerous
arms race, then: sign the freeze
petition; become a member of
our group and work for peace,”’
they then said.

money

Steve Perry, business
manager of the Ring-tum Phi
presented the Phi’s report. He
explained that problems with
papers reaching students’ par-
ents were out of his control.

‘“‘We send the paper bulk rate,
which means if they’ve got
room on the truck, they mail
it,’’ he explained.

Scott Fitzgerald, business
manager of the Calyx presented
the Calyx’s report, accom-
panied by editor Phil Murray.
They reported that the first
deadline had been met and the
book was proceeding smoothly.

 
Page 2, The wanes Phi, en 2, 1982 The Reader s’ Pe age

 

 

 

Letters

Dear Editor:

This will be short and to the
point. I totally agree with John
Vlahoplus’ motion to ‘“‘castigate
the chairman of Contact’’ for
not publicizing the recent Con-
tact speaker, William
Schaufele.

I don’t even know who the
Chairman of Contact is, but that
doesn’t matter. When a speaker
is brought to campus whether
he be famous or not, Contact
has the responsibility to make
the student body aware of his
presence. I didn’t even know
that Mr. Schaufele was speak-
ing, and yes, I would like to
have heard him. —

I hope this letter speaks for
most of the student body. We
are paying for those speakers,
and I for one would like to know
when they are on campus.

Thank you,
Claf Hall
(Class of 1985)

 

Dear Editor:

Over the past eleven weeks, I
have been witness to a sight
that I hope isn’t a sign of a trend
that will continue through the
winter term. I am referring toa
record low attendance on Tues-
day nights in the Cockpit!! I
have worked every Tuesday
night since the beginning of last
year. I can honestly say that the
crowds were more enthusiastic
and larger than they are this
year. If it was such a great pro-
gram last year — what happen-
ed? We packed a full house
every week! There have been
only four instances in which we
have filled the Cockpit this
year. That’s not bad, a 30 per-
cent success rate.

I hope that everyone realizes
that unless the patronage of the
W&L community, which in-
cludes Sweet Briar, Hollins,
Southern Seminary, Mary
Baldwin and Randolph-Macon,
increases in both quantity and
enthusiasm, the consequences

 

\ m) |

a

UG) H Wy mis

SS

could be devastating. What
would happen if there were no
more Tuesdays in the Pit?

In my opinion the quality of
the music has been equal to,
and in some cases, superior to
that of last year. It shouldn’t be
the case that if you have never
heard of a band, you don’t
come. The SAB has done a great
job in the quality of the bands
they have booked, and the
bands for the winter term
(maybe) are of the same
calibre.

A small note should be added
here that the majority of the
Cockpit crowd has been the
Seniors. I think that this may
say something. What? Please
take what I have said seriously.
However disjointed my
thoughts may appear(written
while at work), they express the
genuine concern of a pessi-
mistic Senior. We have no

pavillion. We need our
Tuesdays.

Sincerely,

Rich Weissman

On Elmer Fudd and opening day

By SCOTT BROOM
Special to the Phi

I questioned my sanity as I
reached to turn on the light and
rolled out of bed.

The alarm clock I had just
slammed into silence read 4:40
a.m. But as I excitedly drove
myself south through the pre-
dawn darkness on county Route
611 I noticed kitchen lights
burning in almost every farm-
house and men _ standing
around idling pick-up trucks
scraping frost from the win-
dows.

“Well, I can’t be insane if all
these guys are doing it too.’”’ I
thought. Of course, such ra-
tionalization might be diagnos-
ed by a psychologist as a mere
neurotic device to cover up my
deviant behavior.

My peers were still in bed.
Ah, but they, like the psycholo-
gist, are not deer hunters.

November 15 marked the
opening of Virginia’s deer
season and (according to
United Press International) of-
ficials estimated 200,000 would-
be Nimrods took to the woods.
State game officials also ex-
pected a record harvest of up to
80,000 deer.

Despite such predictions, I,
like multitudes of other hopeful
Elmer Fudd impersonators got
skunked on Monday. I didn’t
even see a doe.

“Record harvest,” I thought
in disgust, as I thrashed my
way through heavy mountain
laurel somewhere on a ridge top
near the Botetourt County line
miles from the car. The view up
there was fantastic, but I
couldn’t see a thing. You see,
God designed mountain laurel
to be around seven feet tall so
the twigs poke you in the eyes,
and to grow so thick that pro-
gress through it is nearly im-
possible. Deer love to hide in
moutain laurel.

Statewide, as on the Botetourt
County line, vicious wind com-
bined with the cold to make sit-
ting motionless on a deer stand
unbearable. I had to retreat
from my perch overlooking a
prime piece of deer habitat. The
wind also delivered my nause-
ating body odor to every wary
nose for at least a quarter mile.
So I joined the many hunters for
the long hike back to the car and
warmth.

I was disillusioned. I had
dreamt of at least 50 different

dramatic finales to my hunt.
Deer hunting is all macho
psyche-up. Now I was dribbling
from the nose like a child, tired
and sure I would die of hypo-
thermia if I didn’t keep moving.

Still, for those who came bet-
ter prepared with warm
clothes, experience and _ for-
titude, opening day was a re-
sounding success. Proprietors
who run game checking stations
noted high tallies for the day.

“Yeah, I was just cruising
through this ravine... and
there he was up on this ridge,”
said George Foresman, one of
my buddies from. work,
“and...and... Blam! Down
he went.” He bragged like a
perennial pro. I knew it was just
luck, but why ruin the excite-
ment. It was a good story and
worst of all, I wished I was tell-
ing it.

“Well, that’s one out of
80,000,”’ I thought. It was four in
the afternoon by then and I had
already formulated plans to
weasel out of class and be back
in the forest the next morning. I
was assuming the frostbite
would heal and pneumonia
would not set in for another day
or so.

Guest editorial

Racial prejudice lingers

as U.S. fools itself

By JOSEPH WHELAN III

These days, many individuals
and minority groups are blam-
ing Ronald Reagan for the
presently bad situation of Black
Americans and other minority
races. To blame the unemploy-
ment of blacks and minorities
solely on Reagan is unfair. In
fact, it is unfair to blame just
about any president running for
reelection for the racial pro-
blem that exists in America. No
single man can be responsible
for an attitude which has been
prevalent in our country for at
least the past 100 years. Over-
coming the color barrier as a
whole, must be the result of a
total but gradual commitment
on the part of every single
American citizen.

It is because this problem
silently slips into every aspect
of our lives that it must be con-
sidered the greatest problem
which has afflicted our nation
over the past one hundred
years. Of course there are other
social, economical, and
religious dilemmas which
abound in our modern society,
but none quite so bellicose as

- the difficulty we have had in

bridging the gap between black
and white. The gap still exists
today just as it was lucidly
flaunted more than one hundred
years ago.

For decades Americans have
been fooling themselves into
maintaining that discrimina-
tion based on race went out with
slavery. This common-held
opinion just adds to the crisis,
and if followed will ensure that
we will be fooling ourselves
forever. We have made the
mistake of thinking that we are
erasing the problem when in
fact the practices we have been
carrying on have been making
the situation more catas-
trophic. How can we say that
every man is equal under the
law when we find ourselves bus-
ing poor black children to better
‘public’? schools because the
children can’t receive as good
an education at their own

neighborhood schools? Is the
black man really free when he
can’t move into a certain sub-
division because he knows his
house will be vandalized? Is the
white man free when he is turn-
ed down for a job by an “‘equal
opportunity’”” employer who
hires a black man to fulfill a
quota? Is Affirmative Action
really considering the black
man as an equal? What is more
basic in this country than our
professed honoring of the con-
cept — equality of rights? Sure-
ly we could say that if this one
main theory has been violated
in our society then we definitely
have a big problem. Well, we do
have this problem, and its size
is gargantuan in dimension.
Racial prejudice is a daily
threat to the ‘‘fool-proofness”’ of
the equality of rights concept.
Perhaps the problem of color
barriers can be brought clearer
to view by examining the
philosophy of the noted
historian Charles Sumner.
Although our society has come
a long way in terms of the pro-
gress of black people since
Sumner’s time, his arguments
still ironically hold true today.
Sumner believed firmly that
even though blacks had been
given freedom on paper, the
white man still refused to ac-
tually grant blacks total equal
rights. If Sumner could see the
bigotry and prejudice that goes
on today, he would maintain
that, theoretically, we haven’t
progressed much in terms of
considering the black man an
equal since the days of slavery.
Charles Sumner once describ-
ed his view of justice by saying
“In the eye of the law there is
but one class, where all in-
terests, opinions, conditions,
and colors commingle in har-
mony — excluding none,
therefore comprehending. all.”
Let us all strive to attain this
“fone class.’’ For it will take the
sincere efforts of us all to
achieve this ultimate ideal. Let
us all contribute to the cause of
bringing a permanent halt to
the biggest problem in America
for the last one hundred years.

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

Sports Editor .......ccccccscncccsccccees
Assistant Sports Editor .............0s.00
POmtres GN oes ccc ceicccesecccccveds
Head Photographer ..............-000005
Photographers ..........cccccceeesseeene

Entertainment Editor .............0000005
Assistant Entertainment Editor ...........
WI Ge caceededececvessscecescerets

Advertising Manager ............seeeeee
pe eee viii eee

Circulation Manager .............s0e0055

cee reveserebisscaeeleneadins Todd Smith
ree or errr er Steve Perry
Shs Miahed cas bceacereberesis Evans Attwell

RO er ee ee B. Scott Tilley
MWeeec Tre res Terre erry ee David Sprunt
siasevelerrerun Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

weweed (0 eeeneveaa th besbiees Paul Casey
Peseta ines David W. Johnston
ceeaeves Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

Norma Anne Chattin, John Cleghorn
John Harrison Andrew Hoppes,
Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter
Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler

be ehieeeaeysuicies tetanus Tom O’Brien
Seeadeebeccucetins Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Huston, Tim Mulraney, Jim Wood
The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1982, Page 3

 

 

1110 South Jefferson Street Monday-

 

F D R 66 k 99 t W & L Lexington, Va. Saturday
| $pea S a 463-3338 9a.m.-la.m.
og Sunday 10a.m.-la.m.
By ALLEN ROBERTS ings about which little was House stenographer Henry
Phi Staff Writer known, Butow began his Kannee. The installation of the

“This country is... ready to
pull the trigger if the Japs do
anything. I mean we won't stand
any nonsense, public opinion
won't. ..if they do some fool
thing.”

This is the private voice of
Franklin Delano Roosevelt in
the fall of 1940, heard in the
Library’s Northen Auditorium
in the fall of 1982. Two weeks
ago historian R. J. C. Butow
presented the story behind his
discovery of the FDR tapes and
the secret recording of 14 press
conferences and private con-
versations during Roosevelt’s
reelection campaign.

Though the tapes have been
available to researchers since
December of 1947 they were
made with primitive equipment
and no one had made an effort

to decipher the garbled and vir-.

tually unintelligible recordings
until 1978, when Professor
Butow visited the FDR Library
at Hyde Park in New York City.

Butow initially went to the
library to research the origins
of Roosevelt’s interest in the
Far East, and he soon tired of
“plodding through endless
documents.” Butow did not
know the tapes existed when he
facetiously asked the library’s
director and an _ archivist,
‘“‘When can I listen to the FDR
tapes?’’ When the director said
the audio-visual collection did
contain some obscure record-

diligent efforts to decipher the
tapes and help solve the enigma
of FDR.

The sleuthing historian, said
the original 1940 recordings
began to deteriorate in 1947 and
were dubbed onto 16 discs. To
protect the discs from ‘‘wear

and tear’’ the discs were later-

recorded on a master tape.
Butow had to decipher the
master tape, which was a se-
cond copy of poor original
recordings. A microphone plac-
ed in the lampshade of FDR’s
desk lamp captured the rustling
sounds of FDR’s morning paper
and the scratching of his pen,
but the voices of visitors to the
Oval Office were usually muf-
fled or unintelligible. The
master tape’s quality also suf-
fers from flaws in the original
soundtrack, deterioration and
poor re-recording procedures.

The transcripts of FDR’s
press conferences were readily
available, so Butow concen-
trated on the private conversa-
tions. After hearing the frank
and unrestrained comments
Roosevelt enjoyed in his private
discussions, Butow pursued an
explanation of how and why the
device was installed.

Though the tapes were made
38 years earlier, Butow followed
a torturous trail of hearsay to
an answer, relying on an 18-
year-old address to find Jack
Romagna, successor to White

     
     

taping device was Kannee’s
suggestion, Butow learned.

Butow assured the audience
in Northen Auditorium that the
President used the recorder on-
ly reluctantly and ‘‘never used
it to entrap anyone.’’ The tapes
reveal that FDR was acutely

- aware of a Japanese threat in

the Pacific, but Butow is con-
vinced that he was not “a
devious manipulator who saw
Pearl Harbor coming.’’ Butow
also said that Roosevelt was not
““‘pursuing.malevolent or Mach-
iavellian designs’ and that he
stopped using the recorder soon
after his reelection to an un-
precendented third term.

Butow explained that ‘‘Roose-
velt had played his cards so
close to his chest that no one
had ever seen his hand.” The
tapes made by an experimental
recorder on a trial run provide a
key to understanding the presi-
dent’s actions during a crucial
period in American history. The
newly-formed Axis Alliance
jeopardized our national securi-
ty just as Roosevelt was or-
chestrating his 1940 bid for a
third term in the Oval Office.
Now historians can hear the
resonant voice of the most
mysterious of presidents ‘‘jaun-
ty one moment, serious the
next, shrewd, confident, imper-
turbable under pressure,
always incommand.”

   

 

 

SPA

    

Sek
BF RY

 

¥

 

« A.

 

 

 

   

iste rer. roe 0: =
co) + viCiy “

 

 

 

 

       
   
     

  
 

agg ,

2 < Marie’s

SOUTHERN INN =( Hair Stylists

= Students and Alumni, = ~~ ee

Z Make this your headquarters for = atoedbecidrve

Zz Good Food and Service = Guys, make reservations early eC
2 in a fine atmosphere = : aa

. j z a.m.-5 p.m.

2 of quality. = Qld Main Building

gg yyy gM

    

 

to dine!

   

The ‘‘Columns” Welcomes All Students and Alumni to try our delicious menu.

Specially Prepared Entrees — Luncheon & Dinner
* .,, COCKTAILS — BEER — WINE
ee chan epuccing” “LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ‘Fri. & Sot. — “Molimo”

30 N. Main OPEN 11 A.M. tol A.M. 463-9331

      
      

     

 

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1982

 

 

Calendar

 

Thursday, Dec. 2
5 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar: ‘‘Psychotherapeutic Drugs,”
Stephen P. Geary, ’83. Howe 401, preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in

Howe 402.

7:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. — FILM: “‘The Graduate”’ (Dustin Hoffman,
Anne Bancroft and Katherine Ross). Classroom A, Lewis Hall. Ad-

mission 75°.

7:30 p.m. — Basketball: Generals vs. Shenandoah College. Warner

Center.

8 p.m. — Concert: Boehm Quintette, sponsored by the W&L Concert

Guild. Lee Chapel.

Away Athletic Event: Swimming: Va. State Collegiate Cham-

pionships. Richmond, Va.

Friday, Dec. 3

DSR-TKA Regional Tournament (debate). For further informa-
tion, contact Prof. Halford Ryan, 463-9111, ext. 345.
8 p.m. — Film: “Man of Iron’”’ (Poland, 1981) 141 min., dir. Andrzej
Wajda. Lewis Hall, Classroom A. Public invited. Free.

Away Athletic Event: Swimming. Va. State Championships.

Saturday, Dec. 4

8:30 a.m. — LSAT, ATP (SAT and ACH): Newcomb Hall.

DSR-TKA Regional Debate Tournament continues.
10 a.m. — Wrestling: W&L Invitational, Warner Center.
8 p.m. — Film: ‘‘Man of Iron,’’ Lewis Hall. Admission free.

Away Athletic Event: Swimming: Va. State Championships con-

tinue.

Monday, Dec. 6
4:30 p.m. Faculty Meeting: Northen Auditorium.
7:30 p.m. — Basketball: Generals vs. Averett. Warner Center.
7:30 p.m. — Lecture: “Historic Site Archaeology in Annapolis,
Maryland,”’ Parker Potter, W&L ’79, and Brown University Ph.D.
candidate. Sponsored by the Lexington Chapter of the Ar-
chaeological Society of Virginia and the department of Sociology
and Anthropology at W&L. Northen Auditorium. Public invited.

Tuesday, Dec. 7
7 & 9 p.m. — Film: “‘The Bicycle Thief.” Directed by Vittorio De
Sica. Sponsored by the department of Journalism & Communica-
tions. Reid Hall 203.
8 p.m. — Concert: Christmas Concert, presented by the W&L Glee
Club and Brass & Percussion Ensemble. Lee Chapel.

Wednesday, Dec. 8
6 p.m. — Law Classes end.
6 p.m. — Wrestling: Generals vs. Lynchburg. Warner Center.

7:30 p.m. — Basketball: Generals vs. Catholic Univ. Warner —

Center.

8 p.m. — Play: An Evening of One Acts featuring “The American
Dream” directed by Peter Moody, ’83 and ‘‘Shutout,”’ an original
play by Tom Southall, ’82 and directed by Tom Ziegler, associate
professor of drama. Troubadour Theatre. Admission free. No
reservations are necessary.

Concert Guild brings Boehm Quintette

The Washington and Lee Con-
cert Guild will present the
Boehm Quintette on Thursday,
Dec. 2, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The concert, which was made
possible in part with assistance
from the National Endowment
for the Arts, is the second in the
Concert Guild’s 1982-83 season.

Tickets for the concert will be
available at the door. Tickets
are $4 for adults and $2 for
students. Members of the

463-9342

ALOHA WOK

Washington and Lee communi-
ty are admitted without charge.

The program for the Boehm
Quintette will consist of Quintet-
to No. 3in B Flat by G. G. Cam-
bini, Wind Quintet by Charles
Wuorinen, Characteristic Suite
by Manuel de Falla, and
Quintet, Op. 95, by Josef B.
Foerster.

Since its highly successful
Carnegie Recital Hall debut,
the Boehm Quintette has per-

Chinese, Polynesian, and

American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 

|Sun. Buffet 12- 2:30-$4.25|

““Carry-out Available”

Open Tuesday through Sunday
Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10
Closed Saturday Luncheon

 

 
   

Ry

i 4

Nike Leather Cortez — Reg. 40.95 Now 33.95
: Converse Leather H-Tom — Reg. 44.95 Now 35.00
Nike Lady Yankee — Reg. 34.95 Now 28.00

 

 

 

 

 

    

AC he a ah ake a a ake ae

formed extensively throughout
the’ United States in major
music centers, on the nation’s
leading chamber music series,
and at colleges and universities.

All members of the group are
experienced and_ successful
teachers of their individual in-
struments, and each enjoys
coaching ensembles as well.
Each instrumentalist has

  
  

ee srw

AST LEX

BEER
BUD 12 PACKS.......$4 59

Pn a i dA Aaubidhals Added

CE NY

Each Wednesday night 5:30
TT ATR PB Ie Om eee UT Wher Te

Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and a

CPV erm ke liee Laie

 

     
  
 

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

I need your head
in my business

  
  

9 South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m.

31 South Main St., Lexington

ee ee ee ee ee eee

* aE
CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES

LOTS OF IDEAS FOR CHRISTMAS-GIFTS & DECORATIONS
Open until 8:30 p.m. on Fridays thru December 17

aie ee eae se ae ae ae a 2K ea eae ae fe ae fe ae a eae ae

specific additional skills that
relate to music-making and
serve to enhance the educa-
tional offering of this ensemble.

The Boehm Quintette is nam-
ed after Theobald Boehm, a
world-renowned flutist and a
flute maker, who changed the
instrument from a weak-sound

- four-keyed pipe to the strong

supple instrument played to-
day.

 

Only
WEL)

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

463-3355

Re ie ae ie he ie iC SE af ie ale ate ofc ate aE

*

Glee Club,
e

Sweet Briar
ae e ca
join to sing

The Sweet Briar College Con-
cert Choir will join the
Washington and Lee Glee Club
and the W&L Brass Ensemble
for a Christmas Concert on
Tuesday, Dec. 7, at 8 p.m. in

Lee Chapel on the Washington
and Lee campus.

The Brass Ensemble,
directed by Robert Stewart, will
open the program, performing
Hans Leo Hassler’s ‘‘Two Can-
zon Non Toni.”

Allen Huszti will direct the
Sweet Briar College Concert
Choir in ‘‘Lo, How a Rose E’er
Blooming” and ‘‘Today Is Born
Immanuel’? by Michael
Praetorius and ‘Dona Nobis
Pacem,” which will feature a
soprano solo by Katie
Grosvenor.

The Washington and Lee
University. Glee Club will per-
form “Ave Maria,” featuring a
solo by Todd Jones; ‘‘I Wonder
As I Wander,” with a solo by
Thomas Maguire, and, ‘Mary
Had A Baby,” featuring a solo
by Roger Thomas Day.

The combined ensembles will
join for a performance of Daniel
Pinkham’s “Christmas Can-
tata.’’

 

 
 
   

Hamric & Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

! GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

 

 

 

11 W. Nelson 463-2022

 

     
  
  
   
   
     

Pe TS ee

  

    

  

Bt

PHONE 463-7000

  

    
      
    
   

VARNER |
& POLE

115 South Main Street

For your extra
N pieces of furiture. |

i

ele en ee ee ie i a ee ee .

,
'
y
)
y
i

  
The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1982, Page 5

 

 

Review

Polish film

will please
audiences

By RICHARD GREFE
W&L Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation will
be a work from Poland, Man of
Iron (1981; 140 min.), directed
by Andrzej Wajda. The film will
be shown at 8 p.m. on Friday,
Dec. 3 and Saturday, Dec. 4 in
classroom A of Lewis Hall.
There is no charge for admis-
sion and the public is invited.

Man of Iron is a sequel to Wa-
jda’s 1977 film Man of Marble
(shown last year by the Film
Society), which traced the story
of a Polish laborer who was
made into an_ idealized
Stakhanovite hero by the Polish
government and then crushed
by that government when he
showed signs of rebelliousness.
In Man of Iron it is the son of this
laborer who becomes involved
in the 1980 Gdansk shipyard
workers’ strike and the rise of
the independent Solidarity
union.

In Man of Iron, the govern-
ment dispatches a journalist to
do a ‘‘smear” story of the
Solidarity leaders in order to

      
 

 

Washington and Lee will pre-
sent ‘‘An Evening of One Acts’
on Wednesday and Thursday,
December 8 and 9, in the
Troubadour Theatre.

Peter Moody, a senior at

Washington and Lee, will direct -

the theatre’s production of Ed-
ward Albee’s play, ‘‘The
American Dream.”

One Acts play next week

   

“Shutout,” an original play
by 1982 Washington and Lee
graduate Tom Southall will also
be presented with Tom Ziegler,
associate professor of drama at
W&L, directing.

The curtain rises at 8 p.m.
each evening. Admission is
free, and reservations are not
required.

Oxford don speaks

Professor Larry Weiskrantz,
head of the department of ex-

perimental psychology at
England’s Oxford University
and a fellow of Maudlin College,
will present a lecture on his cur-
rent research on Monday, Dec.
6, at 2:30 p.m. in the Library’s
Northen Auditorium.

The lecture, which is open to
the public at no charge, is entitl-
ed ‘Further Research on Blind-
sight (Or Remnants of Sight in
Some Who Are Blind).”

Weiskrantz has been able to
demonstrate that individuals
who have suffered damage to

the area of the brain which con-
trols vision actually do retain
some vision.

The lecture is sponsored by
the department of psychology
at Washington and Lee.

Datz band plays

Burr Datz, known to many
students as the assistant univer-
sity proctor, has another side —
that of a country and bluegrass

. musician.

His band, ‘‘Main-Line,’’ will
perform. in The Cockpit, in the
student center, this Friday
from 4:30 to7 p.m.

There is no admission charge.

 
  

Photography on display

The works of six contem-
porary Virginia photographers
are now on display in the du-
Pont Gallery.

The exhibition continues
through December 17. DuPont
Gallery is open to the public
without charge. Gallery hours
are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays,
11 a.m. to3 p.m. Saturdays, and
2 to 4 p.m. Sundays. There will
be a reception for the artists on
Friday, Dec. 3, from 5 to 7 p.m.
The public is invited to attend
that reception.

Photographers whose works
will comprise the exhibition in-

clude Sally Mann of Lexington,
George Nan of Richmond, Mar-
sha Polier of Richmond, Dale
Quarterman of Richmond, Nan-
cy Spencer of Lexington and
Willie Anne Wright of Rich-
mond.

Spencer will exhibit silver
print photographs which ex-
plore transitions of time in a
series of images.

Mann has photographs in per-
manent collections of the
Museum of Modern Art, the
Hirshhorn Museum the Cor-

‘coran Gallery of Art, the

Chrysler Museum and many
private collections.

Christmas service planned

A Christmas candlelight ser-
vice for the Lexington com-
munity will be held at 7:30 p.m.
on Thursday, Dec. 9, in the R.E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal Chur-
ch...

Sponsored by the University
Federation, the service will
feature music by the ‘Sweet
Tones’’ of Sweet Briar College.

Entitled ‘(Nine Lessons with
Carols,” the service will follow
an ancient form of service for
corporate worship used during
the Christmas season.

maxell.

Readers of the lessons will be
Jim Averett, Frank Smith, Moe
Gill, Pamela Simpson, Tish Lit-
tleton, Scott Tilley, Katie
Grosvenor, Georgia Johns and
Keith Goretzka. Warren Taylor
will be the organist.

The University Federation
will accept an offering during
the service and will use the of-
fering to purchase winter
clothing for distribution to
needy individuals in the Lex-
ington area.

iT DK.

    

    
       
       
  
   
       
   
   

 
    

 

 

 

      
    
       
                 
                      

 

discredit them-and their move- The Sassts te gone!
ment. Instead, the journalist Grand Re-opening . TDK
becomes sympathetic to the of Stereo UDC 90 3-PACK BA tepoete ‘.60 2-PACK

; UDXLII Deal DC-60 2-PAC
workers as he learns more Hiveetn Reg. $13.47 Re

; ; ; i 9.1) g. -$4.99
about their situation. (Wajda NOW $10.49 2-UDXLII
makes considerable use of an Fresh c-90’s NOW ONLY $3.99
flashbacks and documentary quipment Reg. $10.98
footage to create an historical Arriving Dail MAXELL eae TDK
perspective.) The  film’s Records x Tapes — LNC-120—2 BAG NOW $9.98 DC-90 2-BAG
climax, in which the govern- List $11.18 Reg. $6.50
ment accepts Solidarity’s Stereo Components OUR PRICE $7.99 : ' NOW.ONLY $4.99
demands, or moment, LEXINGTON - BUENA VISTA SHOPPING PARK 463-9494 MAXELL
one in which everyone can
recognize the state’s implicit c MAXELL UDC 90 2-PACK MEMOREX
threat to strike back when the a ud i0- Reg. $8.98 HI-BIAS—3 BAG
time is right. LNC-46—2 BAG NOW $7.49 | Buy 2, Get One FREE
Director Wajda exhibited ° List $5.18 _ Reg. $17.97

great courage in even attemp- technica OUR PRICE $3.89 NOW $11.98
ting to make such a film. Man of :
Iron’s message is not terribly
subtle, certainly not as far as Cartri dges @SANYO

acutely-sensitive Polish of-
ficials are concerned. Wajda
was “detained” when martial
law was imposed, but it was too

Mini-Size Stereo Component
em

—SUPERCUT-OUTS— {Gf 16

AT110E

 

AT125LC

 

Headphones.

 

  

: =

List $65.00 List $130.00
OUR PRICE $24.95 OUR PRICE $49.95

 

 

late ~~ the Fim and ite-ensanege 100’s of Hard-to-find LP’s, from $1.99 ~}-—22_° o|
had gotten out. Submitted for ’ nm = : P Jd
international critical considera- Over 1400 Used LP's, starting at 10 eee

From
$29.95 - $149.95

 

tion just before martial law
clamped down, the film was
nominated for an Academy
Award and it won the Grand
Prize at the 1981 Cannes Film
Festival.

Man of Iron is a political
thriller as contemporary as last
night’s news. Wajda’s blending
of dramatization and documen-
tary is epitomized by Lech
Walesa’s appearance both as
himself in documentary footage
and as an “‘extra”’ in a dramatic
scene. The film is an event of
artisitc, political, and historical
significance, a film that is sure
to fascinate viewers.

RS TUNER/AMPLIFIER
+ Sensitive AM/FM stereo tuner.

+ Plenty of power: 20 watts per channe!
+ Separate bass and treble controls

* LED signal strength meter.

05 CASSETTE DECK

+ Plays any tape type, including Metal

* Dolby® noise reduction

+ Iuminated VU meters

S5 SPEAKER SYSTEM

* Powertul 2-way Speakers with 4" cone

_——— wooters and 2° tweeters
meen, List 499°

: ae a. Our Pri
Is = | ur Price
gg ggre 429"

SANYO Micro- @SANVO Mini-
ini Size Stereo Cassette Size AM/FM Cassette
Player Stereo Player

@SANVO Miniature
Stereo Cassette Player
with Lightweight Headphones

@ SANYO AM/FM
Cassette Recorder with
Variable Monitor

@SANYVOC Nini

AM/FM Stereo Cassette Player
with Lightweight Stereo
Headphones

 
  

   

  

eetaens
lage fates eo

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1982

Wrestlers open with
H-S, Invitational

The Washington and Lee
wrestling team opens its season
this week with two strong com-
petitions. The Generals visit
rival Hampden-Sydney College
on Wednesday for a 7:30 p.m.
dual match and entertain seven
teams for the ninth annual W&L
Invitational on Saturday start-
ing at 10 a.m.

The Generals and Tigers
squared off twice last winter,
with W&L claiming 22-19 and
24-20 victories en route to an 8-6
record. In last December’s In-
vitational the Generals placed
seventh of eight teams.

Teams from Georgia Tech,
VMI, Campbell (N.C.) Univer-
sity, York (Pa.) College, Get-
tysburg College, Hiram (Ohio)
College, W&L, and a W&L-VMI
mixed group will compete in the
Invitational, which features
double-elimination competition

 

in each of the ten standard
wrestling weight classes.

The Keydets are defending
Invitational: champions. Get-
tysburg placed second, Georgia
Tech third, York fourth, Camp-
bell fifth, and Hiram sixth last
December.

W&L’s line-up will be led by
junior captian Tim Valliere in
the 167-pound division, sopho-
more Jeff Dixon at 190, and
senior Carlton Peebles at
heavyweight.

Completing the Generals’ ten-
tative roster will be sophomore
Terry McWhorter in the 118
division, freshman Brian
Lifsted at 126, classmate Larry
Anker at 134, sophomore Wes
Payne at 142; freshman Mike
Spellman at 150; freshman Win
Phillips at 158, and sophomore
Greg Kendrick at 177.

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

The
Deal

Saturday, Dec. 4

“Watch For Next Term’s
Great New Bands.”

“It's The Place To Be”

 

 

 

ODAC honors W&L stars

Members of the Washington
and Lee football and soccer
teams received recognition
from the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference when the small-
college league selected its All-
Conference awards on Tuesday,
Nov. 16.

The ODAC placed four Gener-
als on its All-Conference first-
team in football: senior running
back Chris Cavalline, senior
linebacker Ken Manganiello,
senior offensive tackle Andy
Foley and junior center Glenn
Kirschner.

Two Generals were named to
the 11-man All-Conference first-
team in soccer; senior forward
Brad Poorman and_ senior
defenseman Tad Renner.

Seven W&L players appeared
on the All-Conference second-
team in football: senior

receiver Jerry Thompson,
junior tight end Dave Judge,
senior placekicker Bill Devine,
junior guards Dan Seal and
Craig Reilly, junior linebacker
John Cole and senior safety
Marty Thomas.

Senior midfielder Mark Car-
duner received mention on the
All-Conference second-team in
soccer.

Cavalline, Foley, and
Kirschner made their second
straight appearance on the
first-team. The ODAC Player-
of-the-Year in 1981, Cavalline
completed his W&L career with
2086 yards rushing, a school
record 152 points, 764 yards
receiving on 62 catches, and a
34.8 average on 132 punts. Foley
was a four-year letterman and
three-year starter. Kirschner is
a three-year letterman and two-

year starter.

Manganiello, also a_ three-
year starter, anchored a W&L
defense which was tops in the
conference the past two sea-
sons. This fall he collected a
team-high 55 solo tackles in-
cluding 14 for losses totalling 89
yards.

The four standouts led W&L
to a 5-4 record, the third
straight winning mark under
fifth-year head coach Gary
Fallon.

Poorman fired in a team-high
10 goals as W&L completed an
8-3-2 campaign under seventh-
year head coach Rolf Piranian
and set a new team record for
most goals in a season (35).
Renner, a four-year starter,
earned his second straight first-
team citation. He and Carduner
served as captains this fall.

 

 

State swimming playoffs here

James Madison, Richmond,
Virginia Commonwealth and
VMI will visit Washington and
Lee this weekend as the Gener-
als’ swimming team hosts the
15th annual Virginia State
Championships beginning
Wednesday evening with pre-
liminary competition in one-
meter diving.

The 18-event meet continues
Thursday and Friday with pre-
liminary swims at noon and
finals at 7:30 p.m., and con-
cludes Saturday with prelim-
inaries at 10 a.m. and finals at
5:30 p.m.

W&L head coach Page
Remillard, whose Generals
placed fifth in last December’s

 

 

Ww

Merry Christmas
HERE

TRAVEL
SAVILw ine.

Ski Austria From $599

For further information give us a call.

 

 

 

 

 

 

19 South Main Lexington, Va. 463-2197

 

 

Washington X Lee

 

 

 

 

Bookstore

We have a great selection.

Books
Gifts That Last

8 - 4:30

 

 

 

eight-team championship meet
also held at W&L sees James
Madison as the favorite. “‘The
Dukes have improved greatly in
each of the past three seasons.
Their early-season times this
year indicate a continuation of
that trend. They have the
numbers and the quality in
those numbers necessary to
win.”

“Behind JMU it’s wide-open.
VCU has 12 quality freshmen;
Richmond is coming off dual
meet losses to VCU and W&L
and will be set on revenge, and
VMI has one of the best divers
in the state (Mark Roltsch) who
will be tested by JMU’s en-
tries.’’

And the Generals?

“The only finals W&L will
strive for will be academic
ones,” offers Remillard, refer-
ring to the university's exam
period which begins the follow-
ing weekend. ‘A demanding
championship schedule and
pending exams don’t mix well.
We'll have sparse participation
Thursday and Friday. As a
result we’ll probably not finish
as high as we’d like to nor as
high as our team’s quality
would dictate.”’

Chief W&L swimmers will be

junior Rand McClain in the

freestyle sprints, classmate
Tim Rock in distance freestyle,
freshman Tim Stanford in the
butterfly and individual medley
competitions, classmate Jay
Kendall in the backstroke, and
the 400-meter free relay entry
probably composed of McClain,
junior Gary Meyer, sophomore
Bobby Pearson and Stanford.
The State Championship
event is the final competition of
1982 for W&L, which will
resume action Jan. 14 with a
dual meet at James Madison.
The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1982, Pause 7

 

WE&L sports highlights

By LEE NICHOLS
Phi Sports Editor

Although this article might
have been more appropriate
before the Thanksgiving holi-
day, there’s still time to take
stock of the fall sports season,
and in turn take a brief look at
the winter sports which are just
getting underway.

Overall, Washington and Lee
Varsity fall sports, which in-
clude football, water polo, cross
country and soccer, enjoyed
their finest seasons in recent
memory. Every team finished
the year above the .500 mark;
the combined winning percen-
tage for the four sports was .750
(48-16-2), an impressive record
by anyone’s standards.

Last year’s football Generals
went 82 and won the play-
offs, the team’s first such ti-
tle since entering ODAC.
At the start of the 1982 season
Coach Fallon and his players
held high hopes for defending
their conference title and gain-
ing a berth in the NCAA Divi-
sion III playoffs, an honor
denied them last year. Unfor-
tunately, the team was unable
to achieve these goals as they

settled for a 5-4 overall record, —
and 3-2 in the conference. |

However, this record must be
qualified; the Generals lost 2 of
their contests by a total of 4
points. Also, they were able to
maintain the transformation of
the W&L football program
under fifth year head coach
Gary Fallon by posting. their
third winning season in a row.
Following regular season play,
four players received All-
Conference first team honors,
while seven others were chosen
for the second team.

The W&L polo team continued
its winning ways under the
direction of fourth year head
coach Page Remillard. The
Generals posted a 25-7 record in
regular season play, including a
flawless 13-0 record in Southern
League Competition. Although
the team was edged out by the
Richmond Spiders in the Virgin-
ia State Championships, they
avenged this defeat by
thrashing their rival 13-7 in the
finale of the Southern League
Championship en route to cap-
turing the title for the second
straight year. The Generals
ended the season on a frustrat-
ing note, finishing seventh of
eight teams in the Eastern

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5968

 

Championships, with a mere 11
seconds preventing at least a
third place showing in the
event.

The W&L cross country team
had a particularly fine season,
as the harriers won the ODAC
Championship for the first time
in its seven year history; the
squad’s excellent season earned
Head Coach Dick. Miller honors
as the Conference Coach-of-the-
year, his first such accolade in
31 years at the Generals’ helm.
Two W&L runners earned All-
Conference honors for their per-
formance in the conference
meet. The team finished with a
dual meet record of 10-2, which
tied a cross country record for
most victories in one season.
Against strong competition, the
Generals took fourth place of 11
teams in the NCAA Division III
South Regional meet.

Head Coach Rolf Piranian
and his players achieved the
goals they set at the beginning
of the season as they compiled
an 8-3-2 mark for the regular
season. The Generals were
competitive in conference play,
posting a 3-1-2 mark which in-
cluded a tie with favored Lynch-
burg College, and finished in a
tie for second in the conference.
Although the team _ will
graduate five starters, Piranian
points out that the team has a
strong group of underclassmen
who will take up the slack next
year.

Looking ahead, the winter
holds promise for a continua-
tion of the winning tradition at
W&L. The basketball team is
coming off a 21-7 record last
year, good for a second place
finish in ODAC regular season

play; likewise, the team finish-

ed second in the ODAC tourna-
ment. The Generals are return-
ing four of five starters from
last year’s team, and have six
returning lettermen on the
bench to provide the necessary
depth. Head Coach Verne Can-
field indicates that fans can
look for ‘‘three guard offenses,
line-up combinations, and
multiple defenses’’ this coming
season, as he looks to career
victory number 300 (his record

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED
Plan Your Hollday

Vacations,
Fraternity
Giveaway
Weekends
Early!

Call:

» 463-7174

now stands at 293-168). The
team’s major goals, according
to Canfield, are 20 victories, na-
tional ranking, conference title,
and a bid to the NCAA playoffs.
The team was overlooked by the
selection committee last winter
despite its impressive record.
In action this far the Generals
are 1-2. Seniors Brian Hanson,
Frank Eppes, and Jay Fechtal
will serve as captains for the
squad.

Wrestling Head Coach Gary
Franke will be relying on
freshmen to fill the lower
weight classes as the grapplers
take to the mats this coming
season. Franke has starters
returning at 142, 167, 177, 190
and heavyweight from last
year’s 8-6 squad; the team is
rather ‘‘top-heavy.’’ The
wrestlers open the season with
a dual match at rival Hampden-
Sydney -on Wednesday at 7:30
p.m. The Generals defeated H-S
twice last season. Junior Tim
Valliere is captain of this year’s
squad.

The W&L swim team will try
to maintain its perfect record of
nine appearances in nine con-
secutive NCAA Division III
Championships. Head Coach
Page Remillard has six let-
termen who competed in the
NCAA Division III Champion-
ships returning from last year’s
squad, as only two swimmers
were lost to graduation. In 1981
the Generals finished fifth in an
eight team field at the state
meet, and ninth out of 49 teams
at the NCAA Division III meet.
Highlights of this year’s season
include the UNC-Wilmington
“Seahawk” Invitational in mid-
February as well as the Virgin-
ia State Championships and the
NCAA Championships. Juniors
Tim Rock and Rand McClain
will captain the W&L team for
the 1982-83 season.

So far this year W&L teams
have compiled winning records
that we can be proud of. Let’s
give basketball, wresting, and
swimming the support they
need and deserve in the coming
months.

  
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

Cagers finish
1982 at home

Three home games during the
next week will conclude the 1982
portion of the schedule for the
Washington and Lee basketball
team.

. The Generals, 1-2 after
Tuesday’s loss at Hampden-
Sydney College, will entertain
Shenandoah College tonight
Dec. 2, Averett College on Mon-

_day the 6th, and Catholic

University on Wednesday the
8th. All games will begin at 7:30

p.m.

Head coach Verne Canfield
labels the three opponents as
‘“‘challenging.’”’.Shenandoah, 1-2
prior to a Tuesday home game,
possesses one of the state’s bet-
ter small-college players in
senior forward Soni Brown.
Averett is ‘reportedly better
than last year when they beat us
by a point at their place,” and
Catholic is an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference newcomer
which posted a surprising one-
point win over Hampden-
Sydney two weeks ago.

W&L’s 1-2 record includes a
50-44 win over Lehman (N.Y.)
College last Friday night in the
opening round of the W&L Tip-
Off Tournament and a 77-72
overtime loss to Greensboro
(N.C.) College in the Tip-Off’s
title match Saturday evening.

“We certainly didn’t invite
any patsies to our event,” com-
ments Canfield on the tourna-
ment which also featured Ra-
mapo (N.J.) College. ““We were
beat by a good team which
played its style of ball on both

ends of the court. But we con-
tributed to Greensboro’s suc-
cess by committing untimely
defensive mistakes, like giving
up baseline drives and offensive
turnovers by inexperienced
players. Fortunately these are
repairable mistakes for us.
We'll be patient and concen-
trate on eliminating them.”’

Bright spots in the W&L play
included good shot selection,
good free throw percentage
(85.7 percent on 36 hits in 42 at-
tempts), and an effective come-
back against Greensboro.

Down 62-52 with 5:30 left to
play, the Generals rallied to
knot the game at 64-64 on two
free throws by junior forward
John Lee Graves with 18 sec-
onds left. Greensboro added a
basket two seconds later; W&L
countered with a score from
senior center Frank Eppes with
three seconds remaining to
force the overtime period.

Graves finished the night with
18 points, Eppes 15, senior for-
ward Brian Hanson 17, and
junior guard Bill Yates 12.
Graves, who scored 23 against
Lehman, including eight in a
row early in the second half to
put W&L on top for good, earned
a spot on the five-man All-
Tournament team. Other All-
Tournament selections were
Greensboro guard Haywood
Evans and forward Jeff King,
Lehman forward Steve Sim-
mons, and Ramapo forward An-
drew Allen.

 

 

| You CAN WAIT YEARS FOR
| A JOB WITH RESPONSIBILITY,

“J

_||

OR YOU CAN GET
RESPONSIBILITY IN THE NAVY
NOW.

A civilian job with responsibility may take years to ob-
tain, even with a college degree. But if you meet Navy
Standards, after four months of Officer Candidate
School (OCS), you can become a Navy officer. And that

means lots of responsibility, a good salary and fringe
benefits, including travel, post-graduate educational
opportunities, 30 days’ paid vacation earned annually,
plus more.

If you’re getting your degree now, contact your col-
lege Placement Office to find out when a Navy
Representative will be on campus. Send your resume

or call;

Management Opportunities
Navy Recruiting District
8545 Maylord Drive
Richmond, Virginia 23229
(804) 270-3101

NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

 

Rates ongitt
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1982

Bass Weejuns

Briar Neckwear
Sienna Madras Shirts Walkover Dirty Bucks
Boston Trader Sweaters

  

Corduroy Slacks by Benchley
. 100% Cotton Buttondowns by Nantucket
CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEAS

Also, a large selection of outstanding sportswear for women, ce, ‘ a

Sierra Designs Outerwear

 

Corner Nelson & Jefferson
Mon.-Sa STUDENT CHARGESWELCOME —805300
A MMM

PALMS Opera house] §

At the Palms Opera House, our goal is to provide the Best
Dining and Entertainment in the Entire South Western

aie hE we eee
SUPER WEEK

Thursday, Dec. 2 Friday, Dec. 3 Saturday, Dec. 4

Check our Schedule of The Halls The Red ;
Bands for the next 10 days yee Ball Jets | Charisma

and mark which Bands you ET eT 9:30-1:30

won't miss during ee
SUPER WEEK!

Tuesday, Dec. 7 Wednesday, Dec. 8 Thursday, Dec. 9 Friday, Dec. 10 Saturday, Dec. 11

Ho hoe The Direct from The
Mexican | Monarchs Chapel Hill, N.C. Deal

Seg | 9:30-1:30 | = STRPS 9:30-1:30
5-10p.m. |. 9:30-1:30
Come by and check out our New Menu.

Nightly Happy Hour from 8-9 p.m.

   

  
   

Sunday December 5, Washington vs. Dallas 4:00 p.m.
, Happy Hour 12-3
University of Virginia bans Easter

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Staff Writer
The University of Virginia an-
nounced last week that it will no
longer sanction Easters, a Spr-
ing party that has attracted

large crowds and caused
numerous problems in recent
years.

Ernest Ern, vice president for
student affairs, announced his
decision in a letter that said
Easters, ‘“‘has evolved into an
event which no longer serves
this university and its students

  

VOLUME 82

Ring

NUMBER 13

in an overall positive way.”’

The decision means that no
university property, personnel
or funds can be used to plan
Easters, usually held in mid-
April. The event in past years
has drawn from 12,000 to 20,000
people to Rugby Road, where
over 30 fraternities hold parties.

A commission was first form-
ed to study the problems of
Easters in the mid-1970’s, ac-
cording to Steven Kline, assis-
tant Dean of Students in charge
of fraternities and sororities.

Many of the problems that ex-
isted then were solved, how-
ever, through a planning com-
mittee that organized the event
each year.

However, the problems with
the large crowds remained,
and, said Kline, ‘It had gotten
much worse the last couple of
years.”

In February, Kline and Dean
of Students Robert Canevari
met with Charlottesville city of-
ficials and were informed that if
they could not get Easters

-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia

Tw Che ry te
WASHINGTON &

we ee

under control, it would have to
be abolished. ‘‘We weren’t able
to correct the crowd problem
last year,” Kline said.

That led to the formation
of a committee headed by
Canevari which recommended
to Ern in early November that
the university withdraw its
recognition of three of the four
major social weekends at the
university, Easters, Openings
and Mid-winters. Only
Homecoming was left unal-
tered by the recommenda-

 

é

RARY

Lek

tion. Before Ern made his deci-
sion to abolish Easters alone,
“There was a significant ex-
change and consideration of the
problems,’ Kline said.

Ern held an open forum for
students and closed meetings
with city officials, police, and
student representatives to
receive counter-proposals.

One such suggestion came fromD EC 10 198%

Inter-Fraternity Council Presi-
dent David Trinkle, a senior

(continued on page 3)

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

December 9, 1982

 

 

Analysis:

Both sides meet
to talk arms freeze

By BILL ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

More than 100 persons of all
ages packed Classroom B of
Lewis Hall Tuesday night for a
debate on the nuclear freeze
proposal. They came to hear a
panel of four speakers discuss
the issues in a forum sponsored
by Pax Christi of Lexington. All
seats were filled and there were
many people sitting in the aisles
as emotions boiled just beneath
the surface of a_ structured
dialogue.

A handout detailing the
nuclear freeze proposal and
eight questions to be considered
by the panel was circulated
among the audience. The hand-
out proposed:

‘“‘To improve national and in-
ternational security, the United
States and the Soviet Union
should stop the nuclear arms
race. Specifically, they should
adopt a mutual freeze on
testing, production and deploy-
ment of nuclear weapons and of
missiles and new aircraft
designed primarily to deliver
nuclear weapons, This is an
essential, verifiable first step
toward lessening the risk of
nuclear war and reducing the
nuclear arsenals.”’

Speaking against the proposal
were Pat Mayerchak, professor
of strategic studies at the
Virginia Military Institute and
Fred Hadsel, director of the
George C. Marshall Founda
tion. Arguing in favor of the pro
posal were Bill Geimer, pro
fessor of law at Washington and
Lee University and John DiPip
pa, director of the Rockbridge
Legal Aid Society

“T would not
nuciear freeze p

support the
roposal as pro

vided because I think it is
somewhat unrealistic to expect
that we could guarantee a halt
to technological development in
nuclear weapons,’’ Mayerchak
said. ‘‘On the other hand, I do
believe that it is essential that
the United States pursue
negotiations with the Soviet
Union on the question of arms
limitations,”

“I support the freeze because
I think it is the first step
towards arms reductions,” said
DiPippa. “The reason I think it
is a first step is because it
leaves no room for manuever-
ing.

“A freeze is a bright line; it
says here and now we are going
to stop,” he said.

Fred Hadsel, who opposed the
freeze, was critical of the
Reagan administration’s ap-
proach to the problem. “‘Dim
the rhetoric and get down to the
problem, stop being bombastic
and deal with the question; that
is what our government should
do,”’ he said.

The panelists dealt with a
series of eight questions listed
on the handout. They ranged
from: ‘‘Is there ‘rough parity’
in nuclear capability between
the United States and the Soviet
Union?” to, “Is the freeze
verifiable?”’ and, ‘‘Are the cur-
rent levels of nuclear defense
spending economically sustain-
able for the U.S. and the Soviet
Union?”

‘The countries will do what
they feel is in their national in-
terest and by the logic of deter-
rence, sustaining it (nuclear
defense spending) is in the na-
tional interest,’ DiPippa said.

(continued on page 3)

 

Writer George Garrett, a visiting ccaleie 4 at Virginia Military Institute, presented a reading from
his works at Washington and Lee University last week. (Hinely photo for W&L)

Anyone for frozen films?

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

For the second consecutive
week, the Executive Committee
has frozen the funds of one of its
subcommittees for not giving a
scheduled report.

Last week, Contact’s funds
were frozen until EC President
Bennett Ross spoke with one of
the two co-chairmen. This
week, the W&L Film Society’s
funds were frozen pending a
discussion with Ross.

Contact gave its belated
report and co-chairman Mike
Skardon reported that the atten-
dance at former Ambassador to
Poland William Schaufele’s
speech was mediocre but ‘‘sort
of what we expected.’’

Co-chairman Mike _Drink-

water explained that the pro

blems with publicity were due
to time constraints. The com
mittee was given only ten days
in which to prepare posters and
news releases.

‘“‘Contact is worthless to the
IFC if the publicity is limited to
the W&L community,”’ Ross
commented. Contact was

originally intended to be a ser-
vice project of the IFC which
would, theoretically, improve
the community’s view of frater-
nities.

Skardon and Drinkwater also
announced that the next
speaker would be Roger
Molander, author of ‘Ground
Zero.”’ Molander will speak in
Lee Chapel on Jan. 18.

When asked if the committee
had been working with the Stu-
dent Association for Black Uni-
ty to bring speakers of interest
to the black community, Drink-
water replied that the commit-
tee had sent them a letter on
Nov. 1 and had not received a
reply.

Law Rep. Ken Terwilleger
suggested that the committee
call the president of the
organization but tempered his
suggestion with the comment,
“I don’t like the idea of babying
them.”

The Student Activities Board
ma its scheduled report and
Brett Kass comme nted that he
expected the ‘Tuesdays in the

Cockpit” program to improve
in the winter.

‘* ‘Tuesdays’ last fall wasn’t
as successful as the winter,”
Kass explained. Townsend Oast
added that the women’s col-
leges would not have as much
money to spend on their own
bands in the winter because of
the large number of parties held
during the fall.

John Haywood reported that
preparations for Fancy Dress
were ahead of schedule and that
six student artists were being
used.

In other business, the EC
adopted a letter to the faculty
EC that ‘‘strongly recommends
lowering the drop/add fee from
$10 to $5.”

“It’s a pretty hard line,”
Morgan Griffith, EC vice presi
dent, commented

‘‘T think it’s the proper line,”
Terwilleger responded.

Rick Swagler presented the
Ariel’s scheduled report and
told the committee that the
Ariel had spent $7.05 of its $1800
appropriation
‘s

Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982

 

Robert E. R. Huntley: A steady

By TODD SMITH
Phi Editor-in-Chief

It was May 5, 1970, and ‘‘the hill” was
covered with students. The Ring-tum Phi
reported that 300 to 400 gathered for a 7:30
meeting in front of Lee Chapel to be
reminded of the U.S. bombing of Cam-
bodia and of the four students killed by the
national guard days earlier.

“Our purpose here tonight is not to burn,
but to build this university,’’ said an
organizer of the Strike Committee. ‘‘We
want to shut down the school so that all
students will be able to go up to Charlottes-
ville and learn a little something.”

The idea was for students to force the
faculty into ending the term without final
exams in order for students to participate
in Anti-war demonstrations, like the Jerry
Rubin rally planned at the University of
Virginia for May 6.

The president who stood up to address
his students at the meeting had only been
in office for two years. Robert Edward
Royall Huntley pleaded with the students
for calm.

“We must all attempt to walk the
tightrope between chaos, on one hand, and
streamlined efficiency on the other,” he
told them.

Huntley explained to them an open letter
he had written that day, attacking the
growth of “barriers’’ on campus, “‘bar-
riers behind which men retreat in intellec-
tual and moral isolation when they have
somehow convinced themselves of the in-
fallible correctness of their own views and
the base hypocrisy of all others... .”’

“Now is a time when Washington and
Lee should exhibit strength,’’ the open let-
ter concluded.

That was just the beginning of a long
week for the W&L community. A group of
30 students picketed the colonnade the next
morning at 8 a.m., leaving after a few
hours for the U.Va. rally. A student

referendum was held in which over 96 per-
cent of the undergraduates voted. Of them,
80.7 wanted to suspend classes for war
demonstrators.

The faculty was drifting toward the
“‘soft-shutdown.”’ But President Huntley
never let the issue come to a vote. He in-
formed a special faculty meeting that he
was under obligation to the Trustees and
the University’s charter to prevent the
University from closing down under such
conditions.

Instead, the faculty made up a proposal
allowing students to take a leave of
absense with an ‘Incomplete’ on their
report card. Work left undone in May
would have to be done by September.

A student strike was averted.

* * * * *

Back then the student body wore long
sideburns and an occasional protest arm-
band. Not so now. If the students of 1970
were possessed of ‘‘a deep conviction,
lightly held,’’ Huntley now jokes, ‘‘now it
may be the other way around.”’

But Huntley remains Huntley.

His first interview in The Ring-tum Phi
reads just like his last. As chief spokesman
for the Washington and Lee liberal educa-
tion, Huntley, 53, has always worked to
keep the school small. He turns skeptical
questions on those who would coeducate
the school or banish fraternities.

Huntley had so adroitly filled the office
of the president that the inevitable an-
nouncement of retirement caused disbelief
and dismay. “It is my personal view that
President Huntley has been the most
outstanding president of Washington and
Lee since Robert E. Lee,”’ the rector of the
trustees, James Ballengee, said in the
Alumni Magazine.

The announcement came less than two
weeks after Huntley told the Founder’s
Day convocation, Jan. 19, 1982, that W&L
had raised $67 million during the 10-year

  

nel

‘hob gh I
Pu J

development program that he spearhead-
ed

In his remarks to the faculty, Huntley
said, ‘‘When I became president, 14 years
ago this week, it seemed to me that a col-
lege president ought to set general objec-
tives he would like to see achieved over a
decade or so, and thereafter should step
aside. I believe that usually it is better for

Robert Huntley by Skip Epperson

Me. in, ae helm

i | ra rr I a i)

Y ae el

 

a new person to lead the institution into the
next cycle of its life. . . .

“Quite simply, I feel I have been in the
job long enough.”’

Huntley now plans a vacation, after
which he will return to teach in the W&L
School of Law. He should be teaching on a

 

Letters

 

The
Cockpit

Editor:

I am writing in response to
Mr. Weissman’s letter of last
week concerning low atten-
dance at the Tuesday night con-
certs in the Cockpit. FACT:
Since the introduction last year
of these Tuesday night Cockpit
concerts, three out of seven
evenings each week can be con-
sidered quiet: Sunday, Monday,
and Thursday. Other evenings
are usually spiced with fraterni-
ty parties and other distrac-
tions. FACT: We all subsidize
the bands brought in on Tues-
day nights by the SAB, yet only
the students without pressing
academic requirements on
Wednesdays are able to go to
the concerts.

Mr. Darrell and the others
who originally selected Tues-
day night were looking for an
evening without conflicts. Is a
Wednesday Psychology exam a
good enough conflict? I hereby
suggest a solution, to be con-
sidered by the SAB and the EC:
when the already scheduled
bands have appeared, move the

Tuesday night concerts to
Fridays. Fraternities can still
schedule their parties for
Wednesdays and Saturdays,
and we will have a regular
weekend activity that even in-
dependents may enjoy.

Many students may have
missed bands they would have
liked to have seen because the
band performed on a Tuesday
night. I hope soon to see publish-
ed in the Phi a reply from the
SAB.

N.P. Whitehead, ’84

Work

for radio

Editor:

WLUR Radio, the Washington
and Lee campus radio station,
is looking for students, especial-
ly freshmen, who are interested
in doing some news reporting on
the local level in the Winter
term. If you are interested,
come up to WLUR on the third
floor of Reid Hall and talk to
Bill Woolfolk, Tori Richardson,
Steve Warren or Allen Reese.
The phone number for the radio

station is 463-9111 or on the cam-
pus extension, 260 or 261. Quite
a few new reporters are needed
and no experience is necessary,
you will be taught all that you
need to know.

Allen Reese

Friends of

WLUR

Editor:

Students in the Department of
Journalism and Communica-
tions at Washington and Lee
University recently presented
extensive coverage of the state
and local elections on WLUR-
FM and Cable Channel Nine.
Student reporters traveled to
Amherst, Buena Vista and
Richmond in order to bring to
WLUR’s listerners and Cable
Channel Nine’s viewers ac-
curate and up-to-date returns.

The generosity of six area
merchants helped defray the
costs of the coverage. The elec-
tion staff of WLUR-FM and
Cable Channel Nine wish to
thank the following merchants
publicly for their community
spirit:

Flip Side Records, Lexington

part-time basis in the fall.
(continued on page 5)

Hardware, Marie’s_ Hair to these communicators that
Stylists, Mead Associates, their efforts have merit in the
Travel Unlimited and Huff- community.
man’s Florist. Sincerely,

Such community spirit and Robert J. de Maria
support graphically represents Assistant Professor

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

aE ii i 6 oR ies ee TAL Recec iSTe Todd Smith
Ar ner rrr co TTT ee re Prt Steve Perry
Pe 6. k 6 bica botnet deduce etesses c2k ecb Fee) reeitccerees Evans Attwell
TE ci iN eC ev ba CCN s 1 ETE CEL Ne ta gee hd Bill Roberts
pg a et Aen arr re rarer oe Te Lee Nichols
Apnintant Sports Halter... ccc cc tctccccwrcccccsccssrdeneseesoceseee Mike Stachura
PO IE ink o's p:9 <0 0 08 650 C4 009-0 0 ee cbs Ea EE eEE Fees cores B. Scott Tilley
TRAE PUGUIIIONOE 6 och ccccescedbnesecctcccscacesincbdsscoecsscgees David Sprunt
gs. __, HYVES ECPERIRTLET TEVA TYR ee Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell
Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

pd EE Pe nr rr errr es wee Ter Te ee reer Paul Casey
Assistant Entertainment Editor ...............:0ceeesscceeeeeeees David W, Johnston
OITA no's obs bisa cet a checker tiseres cise Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell
Norma Anne Chattin, John Cleghorn

John Harrison Andrew Hoppes,

Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter
Allen Roberts, Kob Schlegal, Rick Swagler

ABVGUAING MORAG oa icccccrrcccepeedcveccccceseceeteeunacerecutens Tom O'Brien
RS isl yiiesrisckereisiiii ran ceed Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Huston, Tim Mulreany, Jim Wood
Ciremintindl MOMAMOE oo ccc ccccccccvocccccccrstsencccsnorvececcececcecins Jim Wood
CRPPNI IN ig. io bak cee Cie te Vi ad tee recess erence dined Tim Mulreany, Jim Strader
The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982, Page 3

 

 

Experts meet in Maryland to discuss arms

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi Staff Writer

Experts representing both
pro and con_ viewpoints
presented their arguments on
nuclear armaments and the
present status of nuclear arms
negotiations at a conference of
editorial writers at the Univer-

sity of Maryland last week.
Officals from the Nixon,
Carter and Reagan administra-
tions as well as representatives
of the freeze movement inform-
ed the journalists on the inside
policies behind the SALT II
talks, the START talks and the
details of both the United States
and the Soviet Union’s present

arms arsenal.
Joseph D. Lehman, Public Af-
fairs Advisor of the United
States Arms Control and Disar-
mament Agency, spoke to the
group expaining the Reagan ad-
ministration’s policies. Lehman
was the principal U.S. spokes-
man at the opening of the
Intermediate-Range Nuclear
Force Talks (INF) and also at
the Strategic Arms Limitations

Talks (SALT).

The Reagan administration
maintains a “no first strike
policy,” Lehman said, explain-
ing that the military will not
respond with nuclear defenses
to a warning of any kind
because of the _ possible
fratricidal cost of a mistake. He
said the policy states that the
U.S. will answer with nuclear
arms only when it is attacked
with nuclear arms.

He defended this policy ex-
plaining the current standing of
the “triad of deterrence’ in
which the U.S. maintains se-
cond strike capabilities on land,
with submarines and with air
launched nuclear arms. The
“dense pack,” (which the
House voted out of the Pentagon
budget on Tuesday) is designed
to fortify the ground leg of the
“triad.”’

This concept of a ‘‘triad’’ is
designed to limit the Soviet’s
ability to concentrate their
research on one of our defenses,
Lehman said.

Lehman attacked the nuclear

 

 

Freeze

(continued from page 1)
“‘But the question is not whether
it is sustainable but whether it
is defensible.”

The four panelists argued
back and forth over the eight
questions for two hours and
when they had finished the floor
was opened to the audience for
their own questions and com-
mentary. The emotion in the
crowd that had been suppressed
during the long debate surged
forward. More people in the au-
dience had statements to make
than had questions to ask.

“Anyone who says nuclear
war makes sense is a certifiable
idiot,’ proclaimed one man. A
self-styled expert on nuclear
issues, he went on to argue for-
cibly for the freeze.

Many of those who stood up to
make statements were older
men who recalled Pearl Harbor
and World War II. They remem-
bered the beginnings of the Cold
War in the early 50s and traced
its development through the
Vietnam War era into the 80s.
They do not like nuclear
weapons but they do not want a
weak America and fears of
Soviet aggression are strong in
their hearts.

‘“‘We are Americans, let us be
Americans,” said one man in a
speech of unbridled patriotism.

Another expressed anger at
Reagan’s charge last month
that freeze proponents are
“dupes” for communist pro-
paganda. Freeze proponents
are concerned Americans, not

communist dupes, he said.
Although strained with emo-
tion, their comments. were

_ logical and focused on estab-

lishing the facts. But the most
incisive question came from a
young, teen-age girl who, after
listening to all the legalistic
debate about rockets, technolo-
gy and negotiation, asked the
panel, ‘‘Aren’t you concerned
with the deaths of nuclear war
and human extinction?”’

It was a stunning question
from a young mind and the
clamoring crowd was silenced.
Her perspective on the issue
of nuclear weapons was neces-
sarily different from that of the
old men who remembered
World War II. She was not
preoccupied with history but
with the fate of future genera-
tions.

Annihilation of civilization,
the destruction of all human
achievement and the denial of
life to our yet to be born
children is a real risk of nuclear
weapons which few in the room
had recognized explicitly.

Referring directly to that
risk, the girl’s ingenuous ques-
tion exposed for a moment the
emotion that had subtly moti-
vated the anger and fear, uncer-
tainty and resolution of the au-
dience.

The panel replied quickly,
“Yes we are concerned and that
is why we are here,” as if it
were too obvious to take the
question seriously and they
moved on to other topics.

 

 

freeze movement, maintaining
that a freeze of the present
arms build-up in the U.S. would
leave an arsenal much older
and ineffective than the present
Soviet stockpile. He said that
three quarters of the U.S. arms
are 15 or more years old, com-
pared to the present Soviet
stock, three quarters of which is
five years old or less. -

This statement was later
criticized by the SALT II Chief
Negotiator, Paul Warnke, who
said that the Soviet SS18s and
SS19s, which make up a large
portion of their stock, are liquid
fueled and constantly deteri-
orating in reliability. In con-
trast, only the U.S. Trident
missiles, which are being phas-
ed out, are liquid fueled, War-
nke said.

Lehman also said that the
SALT II talks were largely inef-
fective in halting arms build-up
because they concentrated on
the improper common compo-
nent of both superpowers. The
SALT II talks, Lehman said,
were mainly concerned with the

number of missile launchers
that each country maintained.

Lehman explained that the
thinking behind this approach
was that when a missile was
launched it destroyed the laun-
cher and thus one missile would
be limited to one launcher.

But Lehman continued,
because reusable launchers
were later developed, the
Soviets added 2000 warheads to
their existing number, a move
not disallowed by the SALT II
agreements.

Warnke defended the SALT
talks, stating that if it was
ratified by Congress, it would
call for an immediate unilateral
decrease in nuclear arms of ten
percent.

Randall Forsberg, a chief
proponent of the nuclear freeze
movement and Director of the
Institute for Defense and Disar-
mament Studies, appeared
before the conference to argue
the case for an arms freeze.

Forsberg presented figures
contrary to President Reagan’s
recent statement that the U.S.

is behind the Soviets in the arms
race.

In contrast to Reagan,
Forsberg said that the U‘S.
nuclear submarine force is 20
years ahead of the Soviet force
and that the gap is widening in
favor of the U.S. Thus, she said
a nuclear arms freeze would be
the Soviet’s advantage.

Forsberg criticized the
START talks saying they are
focused on freezing the number
of nuclear arms at present but
do not address the question of
further technological research,
which she sees as potentially
more dangerous.

‘‘Arms control talks up until
now have not been about stopp-
ing arms build-up,’’ Forsberg
said.

She also said that with further
arms build-up by the super-
powers, the incentive for their
use also grows.

‘“‘Keeping the edge of the
sword sharper and sharper is a
plausible, but dangerous,
theory,” she said.

 

Easters

(continued from page 1)

from Roanoke. Trinkle’s com-
promise was three-fold: 1)
Fraternities be allowed to hold
Friday night parties which
would be ‘‘regulated,’’ 2) No
fraternity parties be held on
either Saturday or Sunday, and
3) a university-wide party take
place on Norris grounds on
Saturday night.

Kline said Trinkle’s offer was
not accepted because ‘‘a lot of
people felt it would not be suffi-
cient to eliminate the pro-
blems.”’ Trinkle commented;
“The major concern was that
anything we could do might not
alleviate the crowds. However,
I think that abolishing Easters
all in one year could potentially
cause some problems and dan-
gers. It would be better to slow-
ly phase it out until we hit a hap-
py medium.”

Trinkle sees two possible pro-
blems. First, he feels that the
crowds may still come
—Easters or no Easters — and
nobody will be prepared for
them. “‘It’s springtime, and
people are driving around and
visiting friends,”’ he said. Also,
he indicated there may be an in-
flux of fraternities into the
country to hold parties. Since U-
Hauls were outlawed following
the October accident that killed
two UVA students, the IFC has
been trying to ensure that
fraternities use buses for off-
grounds parties. But that will be
difficult, said Trinkle, ‘‘because
we can’t even say that it will be
a party weekend. I’m worried
about the safety factor.”’

Kline disagreed however,
saying that the three major
items of Easters — the tradi-
tion, the date in the spring, and

the fact that everything is held
out in the open — will all be
gone. ‘This does not preclude
fraternities from having parties
in the springtime,’ he said.
“But it’s not an Easters week-
end unless they say it is.

“The fraternity leaders have
been concerned about security.
The fraternities were victims of
Easters more than they were
benefactors. Many fraternity
presidents were relieved by the
decision. It has created big-
time problems. It’s a_ big
headache. The students enjoyed
the reputation more than the

partying.”

Members of the administra-
tion and student leaders will
now discuss how to regulate the
decision, according to Kline,
who said, “The fraternities are
not interested in protesting the
decision or having their own
Easters.”’

However, the following day, a
rally to save Easters attracted
400 to 500 students on the univer-
sity grounds according to
Trinkle. He said the event was
not sponsored by the IFC. “I
don’t agree with restrictions on
the social life of fraternities,”
said Trinkle. “If they are
outrageous, (the IFC will) start
having rallies and vehemently
opposing it.”’

Kline does not think the deci-
sion will have significant im-
pact at other universities.
“Every school has to look at its
own situation,” he said. ‘‘Some
have big parties with themes
and structures. It’s just party-
ing for partying sake. Not all
big weekends are the same.”’

One of the factors apparently
affecting the decision was a law
enacted by the Virginia General

Assembly that makes public
universities such as UVa liable
for personal injury or property
damage suffered at an event
like Easters.

The law, which went into ef-
fect July 1, does not directly af-
fect Washington and Lee,
according to Dean of Students
Lewis John; however, ‘‘we
would have potential liability
for accidents, hazards, or
dangers,” John said. ‘‘But Fan-
cy Dress is a different type of
event than Easters. We don’t
get big crowds and it is held in-
side.”’

In fact, ‘‘safety’’ was one
reason for moving the ball to
the gym from the cafeteria last
year, according to Dean John,
who called the abolition of
Easters a ‘‘necessary move.”’

Mason Ellerbe, W&L IFC
president, said he does not think
UVa’s decision will affect
Washington and Lee. When ask-
ed if the automobile accidents
this semester and the incident
at Zollman’s Pavilion, in which
the ABC broke up a party in Oc-
tober, would cause any changes
in the university’s current
system, Ellerbe said, ‘‘I don’t
see how we can prevent those
kinds of things which happen to
individuals who make errors or
bad judgments.”

However, John said, ‘“‘Some
of the things that student
organizations do in regard to
parties are going to have to be
different.”” He cited the fact
that there can be no more grain
parties at the Pavilion.

The U-Haul accident, coupled
with the new law, “opened up
the eyes of the administrators,
and they became aware of the
university’s liabilities,” said
Trinkle.
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982

 

110 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, Va.

463-3338

Monday-
Saturday
9a.m.-la‘m.
Sunday 10a.m.-la.m.

SORRY

 

We

specialize
in your

favorite

deli foods.

 

 

 

 

 

Lr ceietealaneenaeiinenaineenaiaiete aedeeiemeenee aimee ieanietamaees

 

Lexington can be boring
even for a policeman

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Staff Writer

The car was weaving a bit
while traveling west on Jeffer-
son Street. Officer Jerry Knick
of the Lexington Police Depart-
ment decided to follow.

“‘He’s driving kind of funny,”
Knick said.

The car turned into a residen-
tial street and stopped in front
of a house. Lexington Mayor
and W&L economics professor
Charles Phillips got out of the
passenger side of the car and
waved at Officer Knick.

That was perhaps the most
exciting aspect of riding with
Officer Knick for two-and-a-half
hours on a recent Wednesday
night, as it turned out to be a
quiet evening.

Officer Knick, who has been
With the Lexington force for
about a year would work 16
hours that day (12-8 a.m. and
4-12 p.m.). He was one of four
men patrolling the Lexington
streets that evening, and though
he could offer no excitement, he
had some insight into the opera-
tion of the police department as
well as the new drunk driving
laws.

The new regulations, passed
by the Virginia General
Assembly last winter, call for
stricter administration of
justice against persons con-
victed of drunken driving. Ac-
cording to Knick, drunken driv-
ing is a Class One (the most
serious) misdemeanor and
could be punishable with up toa
$1000 fine, 12 months in jail and
six-month suspension of driv-
er’s license.

However, Knick indicated,
and court records back him up,
that the Lexington municipal
judge hae been giving first of-
fenders a $200 fine and suspend-
ing their license for six months.
This suspension will be revok-
ed, though, upon entry into the
Virginia Alcohol Safety Action
Program (VASAP). “But if the
judge knows your name, then
you’re in trouble,’’ Knick add-
ed.

However, the sentences
become increasingly stricter
for multiple offenses as a se-
cond offender (within five years
of the first offense) is required
to spend 48 hours in jail.

Knick feels that the new laws
are an ‘‘improvement,” and,
predictably, he doesn’t think
that people should mix drinking
and driving. “It’s just too
dangerous,”’ he said.

Suddenly the radar unit on the
floor of his car began beeping
unmercifully — an oncoming
car was going 46 miles per hour
in a 35 mph zone. But Officer
Knick paid no attention. ‘I nor-
maily give them 13 miles (over
the speed limit),’’ he said. ‘‘I’m
fairly generous. But some of the
others aren’t.”’

In fact, Officer Knick did not
write even a single ticket the en-
tire evening. Is that the norm?
“I haven’t written a ticket in
over a week,’’ Knick said. ‘‘The
ink in my pen is running dry.”’

Following a ‘“‘hair-raising”
chase; Knick did pull a van in
front of the Woods Creek Apart-
ments. Finally, an arrest for
drunken driving or at least
speeding. But no, it was not to
be. As the van pulled over to the
side of the road, Knick pointed
out that it had neither rear
lights nor brake lights.

Later, as Knick maneuvered
the squad car through a bad

suddenly came to life. “Unit

four, I need a 10-21 for a 10-25,”

said the dispatcher.
“Ten-four,”’ another officer
responded.

At last, a burglary or an acci-
dent or some such excitement.
No, explained Officer Knick,
that meant one of the other of-
ficers had received a phone
call, and he had to go to the sta-
tion to return the call.

“I wish something would hap-
pen,” Knick commented. “‘It
would break the monotony, at
least.’’

The evening was not entirely
dull, however. Moving north on

 

“It’s basically a boring job. But then

there are some times you wish it were

like that,’’ Officer Knick said.

 

section of town, he commented,
‘“‘They usually yell at us when
we drive through here.” Talk,
however, turned once again to
the subject of drunk driving.

Normally, Knick gets most of
his drunk drivers by arresting
them for a minor traffic of-
fense, such as running a red
light. Then, he can get an idea if
they are drunk by smelling
their breath or listening to
whether or not they are talking
clearly. |

If he suspects they are intox-
icated, he will administer the
usual tests such as walking a
straight line and touching a
finger to their nose. Knick also
has a field kit to give a general
idea of blood-alcohol content. It
consists of a test-tube ap-
paratus with a chemical inside.
If this chemical turns green
when the suspect blows into one
end of the tube, then Knick will
take him in to the police station.

“This test has never failed me
yet,” Knick said, indicating
that everyone he’s arrested
after using it has registered a
blood-alcohol content of .10 on
the breathalyzer at the station.
“Although I’ve never arrested
anyone who has had more than
three drinks.”” he added sar-
castically.

Once at the station, the officer
has to call a magistrate in to
bond the suspect and issue a for-
mal warrant for his arrest. Pro-
vided that the suspect is
reasonably cooperative, he will
be released when someone that
he knows comes to pick him up.
This is known as release upon
recognizance.

If the suspect can’t find
anybody to bail him out, he will
be kept in jail overnight. Of
course, all of this is dependent
on his showing up for a future
court date.

The radio, which had been
silent throughout the evening

Main Street, Knick spotted a
youth exiting the parking lot
beside White Column Inn. Ex-
plaining that there had been
some items stolen from cars
there and that this person ap-
peared to fit the description of
the suspect, who had been chas-
ed twice but not caught, Knick
turned around at the intersec-
tion of Main and Jefferson and
began slowly following the
youth on Henry Street with his
lights turned off. Finally, after
determining that the youth
didn’t have any contraband in
his possession, Knick sped past
him. ‘‘He was_ probably
scouting it out for later
tonight,”’ he said.

As the moon climbed higher
in the sky and Lexington be-
came deserted (‘‘It’s like a
ghost town,”’ Knick said at one
point) talk turned to the duties
of a police officer.

Knick said that although he
only schedules about one court
date every six to eight weeks,
there is still a tremendous
amount of paperwork involved.
Also, he indicated that begin-
ning the following day, the
department would be going onto
12-hour shifts, working four
days, and then having four days
off.

He also said that he
understood the police depart-
ment was planning to hire an in-
vestigator to take some of the
weight off the shoulders of the
policemen. After all, Knick
said, “It’s difficult to conduct
an investigation and ask people
questions when you are working
the graveyard shift.”

So how would Knick, a
military policeman before com-
ing to Lexington, sum up his
job?

“It’s basically boring,” he
eaid. ‘But then there are some
times you wish it were like
that.”’
The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982, Page 5

 

 

(continued from page 2)

Power will officially change hands at
this year’s Founder’s Day convocation,
Jan. 19. Huntley’s successor is John D.
Wilson, vice president in charge of
academic affairs at Virginia Tech.

* * * *& *

The first time I really met President
Huntley was in the course of a story on the
suicide death of Gary H. Dobbs, a well-
loved biology professor.

Any death of that sort would be con-
troversial. This was even more so because
of Dobbs’ importance on campus. Dobbs
had been given a Ring-tum Phi award for
“epitomizing the Washington and Lee
gentleman,”’ and he had more advisees
than any of the pre-med professors.

The story was made doubly touchy
because Dobbs had stipulated in his will
that equipment he had donated to the
University would be withheld if W&L made
any ‘‘public announcement” about his
death.

In spite of all this, Huntley concealed
nothing. ‘‘I don’t think anything in the will
prohibits our answering questions,” he
said.

Huntley told of coming into his office to
find a ‘‘good-bye”’ letter from Dobbs in his
Christmas holiday mail, and of finding
Dobbs finally in his cabin-home.

“In every instance of death or serious il-
Iness, (Huntley) is a reassuring and real
presence,’’ said one administrator. ‘‘He is
senstitive to the kind of decisions familites
must make under such circumstances, and
he discreetly proffers his assistance and
that of others here as it might be welcom-
ed.”’

ee ee

It is not easy to get an interview with
Huntley, despite his attitude of coopera-
tion with the student press. As the school’s
master fundraiser, he is out of town a good
deal.

But the logistics worked out and I spoke
tohim recently for an hour.

How do you feel at the end of the $70
million campaign?

‘Well, I think it’s a damn good thing we
raised it,’’ he said, and burst out with a
gravelly laugh. ‘‘ ‘Cause we would have
sure been in trouble if we hadn’t.

“It’s very satisfying to know that the
school has that kind of vitality and
strength. It established a fair reason to be
optimistic about the school’s ability to
raise money in the future. . . .

“It took a great act of courage by the
board (of trustees) to acknowledge that
the need was that large and to put them-
selves on the line to make sure it got done.

“The $56 million originally announced
was perceived and stated to be the
minimum amount. Nobody believed it was
the minimum amount but it was. We ac-
tually had to raise 67, to get the same thing
done we thought 56 would do. Inflation was
higher than we expected.’

Marie’s
Hair Stylists

News Flash: meet Robin, “‘a
pretty and talented hair

cutter & stylist”

Guys, make reservations early
463-9588
9a.m.-5 p.m.

Old Main Building

COPD D

€

 

Robert
Edward Royall

Huntley

The moneyraising was needed to finance
development on campus that included a
new undergraduate library, an overhauled
School of Commerce, and a renovated
Graham-Lees dormitory, to name the
most obvious projects.

Huntley’s fundraising efforts keep him
in close contact with alumni and trustees
(though that’s certainly not the only
reason for contact). The board of trustees
meets three times year, mostly on cam-
pus. Huntley, as a trustee, attends these
meetings as well as meetings of trustee
committees, where a lot of the work is
done.

“(The trustees) are an amazing bunch.
They’re very hard-working, successful
people, with a lot of other things to do, but
they give the school a very high priority in
their lives,’’ Huntley said.

Although Huntley said he doesn’t have
“any powers to dictate to the trustees,”
sources say he has been instrumental in
energizing the board with younger,
talented new members.

In addition to the trustees, college
presidents add to the heady intellectual
circles that Huntley moves in. ‘The
presidents I see most of, besides those in
the state, are the presidents of Williams
and Swarthmore and Davidson, Grinnell
and Carlton, . . . Occidental, Colorado Col-
lege. .

“Those are the ones I see most of and
talk about comparable situations and pro-
blems with.”

He rounds out the list of friends with
alumni, like Roger Mudd, the NBC News
anchorman who was a brother Delt with
Huntley in the early ’50s.

I get calls from Roger every once in a
while, but not about the nightly news. No,
we’re good friends and we have the kind of
communications that good friends would
have.”

Are college friendships the ones that
last?

“Well, they certainly have been with me.
That’s true. But then you have to bear in
mind that I never really left here for very
long. I was in the Navy four years, went off

SHHHCHOHCHHCH TCHS S HY
CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES

31 South Main St., Lexington

LOTS OF IDEAS FOR CHRISTMAS-GIFTS & DECORATIONS &
Open until 8:30 p.m. on Fridays thru December. 17

Senenonnoenonoons

to Harvard for a year, and then practiced
law for a year.

“With those exceptions, I’ve been here
since I was 16!!! All of my friendships are
college friendships !”’

A graduate of Washington and Lee, and
W&L Law, Huntley returned in the ’60s to
teach in the law school.

Huntley became secretary of the board
of trustees, and said he had no idea that the
position would lead him into the role of
president. But the position allowed him to
meet and befriend many trustees.

When it was time to pick a new president
in 1968, no one was in a better position than
Huntley. The selection process was much
more limited for Huntley than for the new
president, Wilson, said Frank Parsons,
assistant to the president.

* * * Ok

In the interview, Huntley said the ques-
tion of coeducation was still open for study
by the trustees, and would continue to be.
But he himself seemed skeptical.

‘Almost all of the schools that were all
male and became coeducational (in the
70s), and that I know anything about,
became larger by a factor of 30 to 100 per-
cent, within a matter of three or four or
five years. If that had happened to us in
those days it would have been difficult,
educationally and financially.

And size is the key consideration for
Huntley.

“It’s like the old Mutt and Jeff cartoon:
If you sell silver dollars for 50*, you don’t
make more money by selling more of
them.”’ :

What about the controversial (at least
with the faculty) question of fraternities?

“You have to imagine the alternative
before you know whether or not you’re go-
ing to like it better, and also you're going
to have to ask the question whether you
can create the alternative,” he said.

“I doubt if the need that people feel to
get together in groups smaller than 1500 or
1350 is going to go away.”’ The small
student body allows “for some sense of
community, but it doesn’t mean that you

fellowship with each person relating to
each other person in the same way. Just to
state that reveals that it’s nonsense.”’

Huntley denied that the housing and
feeding done by fraternities is a major con-
sideration. So why does the university sub-
sidize fraternities with low-interest loans?

“To a degree, the university will need to
concern itself, under any system, with the
facilitation of these social subgroups. You
can’t just deny their existence.

“You'll notice there are loans to non
fraternity subgroups, too,’’ Huntley said,
refering to the Lampost Christian House
and the International House.

* * * * *

One administrator has said that Huntley
has a way of making a prospective donor
appreciate the importance of his or her gift
to himself or herself. Even faculty
members who hope that money will not be
the prime concern of the incoming presi-
dent acknowledge that Huntley’s skill with
donors provided the university with a
sense of financial security in times of na-
tional financial insecurity.

There is a story, which Huntley confirm-
ed, which shows the Huntley charm in ac-
tion. He had been given a check for $10,000
at some alumni gathering, which he put in
his sock drawer for safe keeping. And then
forgot about.

When he couldn’t find the check, the
donor sent another check for the same
amount. But meanwhile, Mrs. Evelyn
Huntley found the first check.

So Huntley called the donor, with the old
check, and the newly arrived second
check, in front of him.

‘““Great, you found it,’ said the donor.
“‘Now you can tear up the second check.”

‘‘Well, that’s not what I had in mind, ex-
actly,’’ Huntley responded, and proceeded
to sweettalk the donor into a $20,000 dona-
tion.

* * * *

In the first interview with president
Huntley in 1969, someone said, ‘‘When you
retire, some reporter is going to ask you
what your proudest achievement as presi-
dent was. What do you think you will say?”

The answer was quick and eloquent, and
would stand as a changeless definition of
Washington and Lee. The same message
reverberates through commencement
speeches and interviews throughout
Huntley’s 14-year tenure:

“T would hope to be able to say that
Washington and Lee has fulfilled its
history as a unique higher educational in-
stitution, with continuing emphasis on the
liberal arts, with student body and faculty
drawn from all walks of life; and from
across the country, strongly motivated
young men who represent a cross-section
of society; and highly qualified faculty
members who are primarily motivated to
teach young men, with interest in research
and independent scholastic improvement
in their thinking, but secondary in their

 

 

can expect that all 1350 will be one grand motivation.”
Hamric & Sheridan (a
& JEWELERS ye Loh
a Watches and Sh Saubboich
@ Jewelry Repairs Upp 703-463-2595

463-3355 & BIG DELICIOUS
& GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS DELI SANDWICHES
IMPORTED CHEESES
Hane Engrentsly & Clues Stage DELI MEATS PARTY PLATTERS
OLD MAIN STREET
11 W. Nelson LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

 

463-2022

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982

:

pe daa bs OF N YOU SPENT BIGHT HOURS

 

 

 

 

WW) br \ AccoRDING To YOUR RESUME

t ares Ee A WEEK STUDE
TRACY vue NT

RECRUITMENT

 

 

 

 

OD
oS TARE &

Wis Up eS
[Pascal )

oS PY’ A
S

  
   

 

  
  

 

 
 

 

Seven Hoves FOR [TWEE FOR 1.M.SPORTS, ARE YOU INSINUATING
MOCK CONVENTION, SIX [EIGHT FOR THE ENGLISHCLUB, \| | THAT MY RESUME 1S |
PER WEEK AS NAME-|ROUR FOR THE STANISHCLUG, THAN SINCERE ¢ ) WHAT EXACTLY
TAG MANAGER OF THE | Five FOR THE RINGTOM FHI, - 1S THE " BLEWOFF
M.D. SUPERDANCE: — | AINE FOR THEOUTING CLUB, CLUB?" ME VERMIN
TEN Ne ee MR. VERMIN, THATS £ oe |

LL e
THE SoBLicé Ns,| 82 HOURS A

’ a
LY > ‘7
PZ r ZT My a

——===—

ATTN

 

    
   
 
    
   

 

      
   

     

M

    

 

  

SS

 

 

 

 

 

 

SIL BOK Sa eh hk eek Week hk Fists, |

|
4

s

¥
F

ve

 

 

<

 

Z .. (.. “ wll) pol
WASHINGTON & LEE
“HOLIDAY BASH”

WINSTONS

in georgetown
Washington, D.C.

333-3150 ,
TUESDAY MUSIC BY NARDS §
DECEMBER 21st REDUCED BAR }

rar
S506 Sk SOSA PS WEST ‘Pa Ma Sk SL NS APR, YS 1 SOS PROPRIO NESS Ok RE NescRgNS SU SPS eee PS Sak SO SPSS

 

& WASHINGTON, D.C.’S NEWEST SALOON
OPEN FOR “CHRISTMAS BREAK"
4926 Wisconsin Ave.,N.W. 966-5832

Present For

ONE FREE DRINK

One To A Customer
SOSH WEES YE YOM You OM fas Sa Sk Wee Yeas POM Wed BON ee I ee et sed ie Poe

 

=
4
 

WASHINGTON & LEE ERSITY

Ex

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

CELSIOR

 

A Journal of Interdisciplinary Thought

 

 

 

Focus: Where is it going? Where has it been?

Focus, the Interdisciplinary
Symposium, is a creature of the
1981 University Council. It was
originally given the name of the
Washington and Lee Intellec-
tual Symposium, but that name
was changed due to the objec-
tions of several people. In this
issue of the Excelsior, Focus’
Journal of Interdisciplinary
Thought, we present the
original White Paper of the 1981
University Council on the sub-
ject of what was then called the
Intellectual Symposium. In so
doing, we hope to educate the
W&L Community about the
great potential Focus has. This
white paper envisions great
things. Although the organiza-
tion’s name has changed, the
dreams and goals presented in
this white paper remain.

The current Focus committee
has no intention of living up to
all these goals in one year. In
fact, we have some very limited
objectives for this year. These
objectives, however, envision
working towards the goals of
the white paper, while realizing
they cannot all be achieved at
once. What are the objectives of
Focus in 1982-1983?

1. To publish three issues of
the Excelsior, one for each term.

2. To hold a mini-symposium
on Saturday April 23, 1983. Our
chosen topic is technology. We
hope to share a speaker with
Contact on that day. Hopefully,
that speaker will be Con-
gressman Newt Ginrich, an
acknowledged expert on the
topic. The price for this speaker
would be approximately half
that of most other speakers, so

that it would not cost Contact
very much. In addition, we
want to publish an issue of
Excelsior on Thursday April 21
that would be devoted solely to
the topic of technology. Some

possible articles would be: the
moral aspects of genetic
engineering, political aspects of
advances in military technolo-
gy, business aspects of the new
technological revolution, pro-

jected advances in medicine
and cancer research, etc. The
list could go on and on. It is ob-
vious from this brief list of
possible topics that the ap-
proach would truly be inter-

The report that got Focus started

Report of the Committee
Brainstorming the Feasibility
of a Quadrennial Intellectual
Symposium at Washington and
Lee University.
April 28, 1981
Background

At its meeting on February
25, the Univeraity Council by a
unanimous vote asked the Coun-
cil chairmen to appoint a com-
mittee to investigate the
possibility of an intellectual
symposium or convocation (a
university-wide consideration
of a critical public issue
culminating in a town meeting,
a white paper, and a competi-
tion) as proposed by the ad hoc
Committee on Liberal Educa-
tion.

Before taking further action
(such as asking the Student
Body Executive Committee to
appoint chairmen and a steer-
ing committee), the Council
wished to have a representative
committee brainstorm the pro-
posal to evaluate its feasibility
and; if it were thought to be
feasible, to make suggestions or
recommendations as to format,
structure, and possible topics.
The Council’s intent, however,
was not to limit the committee
in any way in the range of its
considerations.

The committee was compos-
ed of nine members, three
faculty members, one adminis-
trator, and five students. One
faculty member asked to be
dropped from the committee
because of schedule conflicts
and illness. The members were
present or former members of
the University Council or the
Executive Committee, or mem-
bers of the ad hoc Committee on
Liberal Education (including
the person who made the
original proposal), or persons
with experience in activities
similar to the one proposed.

Methodology

The committee met on four
occasions (March 19, March 25,
April 21, and April 23) with ex-
cellent attendance at each
meeting. Brainstorming and
discussion was the primary
focus. No formal votes were
taken, but the committee was
very positive and found the pro-
posal interesting and appealing.

The report, which was ap-
proved without dissent, is divid-
ed into areas which the Univer-
sity Council might wish to con-
sider before taking further ac-
tion on the proposal: goals and
objectives, problems and disad-
vantages, operation, structure,
format, and possible topics

(with an outline of one par-
ticular topic).
Goals, Objectives, Advantages

An intellectual symposium of
the type suggested would serve
several functions and have
many merits.

1. It could help unify the cam-
pus. Academic, housing, and
social units fracture the cam-
pus. An intellectual symposium
could bring together the various
departments, disciplines, in-
terests, and groups in a com-
mon pursuit.

2. Interdisciplinary learning
needs to take place, and an in-
tellectual symposium could pro-
vide an opportunity. It is impor-
tant to look at problems from
several different areas, but
there are relatively few inter-
disciplinary courses.

3. Critical thinking would be
encouraged. Students and facul-
ty members would have a
chance to look at issues from
several different perspectives.
There would be additional op-
portunities to review and judge
ideas.

4. It could demonstrate that
liberal education takes place
outside of the classroom as well
as inside.

(continued on page 10)

disciplinary. This issue of
Excelsior would, we hope, draw
a lot of interest to the upcoming
speaker and thus would benefit
Contact as well. At the mini-
symposium, we hope to have
displays and literature from top
corporations and/or the govern-
ment on new advances in tech-
nology. If feasible, we may
have some debates, seminars
and lectures concurrent with
these displays and the speaker.

3. To recuit members for the
Focus Committee. As most of
the work for the committee is
now being done by one or two
people and, as these people are
currently seniors, the need for
new members is crucial.

4. To begin thinking and plan-
ning for a full-scale Inter-
disciplinary Symposium in the
spring of 1986. Such a sym-
posium would be on the scale
envisioned by the white paper
mentioned above.

What is Focus trying to do? It
is trying to invigorate the in-
tellectual climate on campus. It
is, through its journal Excelsior,
trying to prevent myopia resul-
tant from too much absorption
in one discipline. Focus wants
to make the W&L community
proud of its talents for thinking.
It is more than another group
sponsoring speakers — it is an
integrated concept. Excelsior is
more than an offshoot of the
Political Review — it is a multi-
and inter-disciplinary journal.
Please give Focus and Excelsior
your support.

Chris Bouquet
Chairman of Focus
Page 8

Imagination in Art

By CHRISTOPHER C.
BOUQUET

Imagination “rouses’”' man
beyond himself to cosmology.
Man steps out of the cramped
room of reality onto a vast,
universal plane. Imagination
leads man to see the flux of
alternate realities. There are
many worlds twirling on the
plane. Ghosts from past and
future meet. The souls of tantric
lovers entwine in gaseous em-
brace. The spaceship in Gurd-
jieff’s Beelzebub’s Tales to His
Grandson really flies.

Why does it fly? Of what use
is the imagination? Moody’s
Bond Survey, while useful, can-
not be the Bible of an investor
who has stepped out onto a
universal plane. Imagination
broadens. The investor grasps
that there are worlds beyond
Wall Street, beyond, even, this
world. He becomes part of
something greater than him-
self. By using his imagination,
the investor grows.

Art helps man to see the im-
agination that is within. Art, an
impulse against mortality,
pushes man towards where
mortality is unimportant:

Here the impossible union

Of spheres of existence is ac-
tual,

Here the past and future

Are conquered, and reconcil-

ed.?
Art pushes man towards the
songs of angels. Music by Bach,
however, is not the song of
angels. His music, like all art, is
an arrow shot towards the sun.
G. says, ‘‘The secret of crossing
from one river of life to the
other is...to draw gross matter
back inside, transform it into its
independent arising as fine
matter, and then to direct it
back towards its place of origin,
the Sun - Absolute.’’* An artist’s
imagination, through his medi-
um, ‘transforms’ this “gross
matter’”’ into a. “‘revelation.’”*
The “revelation’”® is a bow
towards objective truth, an
acknowledgement of the es-
sence of things, the ‘‘fine mat-
ter.’"° Thus, a thing “has
aesthetic and veristic signifi-
cance beyond its generic identi-
ty or function.”"' The imagina-
tion, the, the mind, leads the ar-
tist to work with his raw
materials, through his medium,
towards objective reality. Eliot
bids the artist, ‘‘Not fare well,
but fare forward, voyagers.’’”
Of what value is this voyage to
the non-artist, the appreciator
of art? Art, and its accompany-
ing aesthetics, ‘‘certain
evidences of exertions to find
the truth,’’"* shatter illusionistic
notions of reality. The man in
the street, through an under-
standing of art, sees the ‘fine
matter’’'* that the artist
presents through his medium.
Moody’s Bond Survey and the
world of traffic jams no longer
have a vice-like grip on the
populace.

Out of the vice-like world of
World War One came these
monumental words, ‘‘zimzim
urallala zimzim zanzibar
zimlalla zam.’’ It was Hugo

Ball. He and the Dadaists were
shattering the illusions of the
reality of the nineteen teens.'*
They were anarchic Turks on a
particularly wild voyage. Their
end, however, justified their
means. They, like all artists,
were seeing ‘‘the human end in
the spirit’s greatest reach.’
The Dadaists sought ‘some
common denominator belong-
ing to both the lowest and the
highest forms of animals and
plants.’’"* It was not easy to
achieve such ethereal goals in
the world of trench warfare and
mustard gas. Thus, they needed
some outrageous tactics.

Hugo Ball’s words without
meaning were an_ outrage.
Perhaps they reflected the
meaninglessness of European
society and the value of the
poet’s medium to sound words
into music that reaches toward
Eliot’s ‘impossible union.’’”
Duchamp’s Fountain, also an
outrage, made a crucial point
about art. It was the artist’s in-
ward focus, his imagination,
that mattered. If the artist
chose a urinal as a piece of art,
that was his prerogative. Wil-
liams, afterall, in ‘‘Between the
Walls,” makes broken glass in-
to art. Anything could be art if
chosen by the artist and,
through his _ imagination,

“transformed into fine mat-

ter.’’2

Surrealism, building on
Dadaism, underlined the im-
agination. The surrealists
seemed to by saying ‘‘Please do
not forget there are other
worlds besides this one.”” What
was their ultimate goal? It was,
as Arnason says, ‘‘...a moment
of revelation in which are
resolved the contradictions of
dreams and realities,”’*! Once
again, the imagination pushes
the artist, through his medium,
towards an objective reality
where all things are one and
contradictions do not exist.

Max Ernst’s The Horde, like
many surrealist paintings,
evokes dreams. The artist’s im-
agination, through his materi-
als, reveals ‘‘ghostlier demar-
cations.”’** Ernst uses frottage,
making random sketches of tex-
ture*® and arranging these so
that the result is “fine mat-
ter.’’** This emphasis on
chance, also seen in Dadaism,
shows the elusiveness of the ar-
tist’s object of desire. He cannot
reach the sun. His art is ‘“‘objec-
tive prayer.’’** He snatches at
the disparate elements of reali-
ty, trying to fuse them into a
single artistic arrow. In the pro-
cess, he evokes dream-like
figures, horrible, haunting,

moving across the canvas. Is -

this Stevens’ ‘‘migratory pass-
ing’’ between reality and other
worlds? This man knows the
truth lies somewhere between
this world and the next:
somewhere on the universal
plane, where contradictions are
resolved. ‘‘The way up is the
way down,”’?’ says Eliot.

The way up is toward the
songs of angels. The way down
is towards the individual and
his imagination... There is no

way to express the ‘impossible
union’’* of these two paths. Yet,
the artist must try. “That risk/
is all there is.’’** His art is all he

has:

... The actor is

A metaphysician in the dark,
twanging

An instrument, twanging a
wiry string that gives

Sounds passing through sud-
den rightnesses**

These sounds, however, are not
the truth. They come from the
artist. Stevens says, ‘‘...it was
she and not the sea we heard.’’*!
Where surrealism underlines
other worlds, abstract expres-
sionism underlines the artist’s
role. Imagination is crucial in
both. The painter looks deep
within himself. This inward
turn is reflected in new ap-
proaches to the canvas. Paint is
allowed to seep deep into the
canvas. The canvas is not prim-
ed. Artists, like Jackson
Pollock, become more a part of
their composition. Pollock laid
his canvas on the floor ‘“‘since
this way I can walk around it,
work from four sides and
literally be in the painting.’’**

William deKooning’s ... Whose
Name Was Writ in Water is an in-
tensely personal piece of art. It
has no basis in physical reality.
It is an expression of the artist’s
feelings. The artist’s imagina-
tion launches these feelings
toward a complex of universal
feeling. He does this with red
and blue lines on a background
of white. Arnason suggests that
there is violence in these lines.**
It seems almost like the
violence of a man’s will to live.
Perhaps deKooning was listen-
ing to Dylan Thomas’ words:
“Rage, rage against the dying
of the light.’’** The white sug-
gests water, the inexorable flow
of time. The blues and reds and
black suggest the rage of the ar-
tist.

All artists “rage against the
dying of the light.’’** Charles
Olson, the poet, grasps that his
breathing will stop. Yet, he uses
his breath; in his poetry, to
‘“‘push’”” towards a universal
which is present for all time and
is outside of time. Man is an
animal. Part of the attention
focused inward should be on the
breath. Breath is an internal
characteristic that man shares
with other animals and plants.
Man turns inward, not to spew
forth his person, but as a ‘‘par-
ticipant in the larger force.’’™

He learns “secrets objects
share.’’*
Does he learn just by listening

to his breath? The answer is no.
He must employ his imagina-
tion, his mind. The poem is a
work of the mind, not a gusher
of feeling. Stevens says that the
modern poem is ‘“‘The poem of
the mind in the act of finding
what will suffice.’ It relates to
the reader by going towards
that ‘‘thing’”’ that is universal in
each person. It is the imagina-
tion which sparks the search.
The poet’s medium allows the
search. To Olson, the syllable
and the line are primary ele-

ments of the medium. ‘‘The two
halves are: the head, by way of

the ear, to the syllable/ the

heart, by way of the breath, to
the line.’’*' The ‘dance of the in-
tellect’’*? is in the syllable.” And
the threshing floor for the
dance? Is it anything but the
line?” Is it not on the
“threshing floor’’* of reality
that imagination and art play
themselves out?

The syllables are the ‘‘play’’**
of the imagination. Yet, the
sound of the poem is the sound
of the guitar in Stevens’ ‘‘Man
With the Blue Guitar:’’

And they said then, ‘But play
you must

A tune beyond us, yet
ourselves,

A tune upon the bive guitar

Of things exactly as they
are’’’*6
This tune however, can never
express “‘things exactly as they
are.”*7 “The man_ replied,
‘Things as they are/ Are chang-
ed upon the blue guitar?’ ’’

Truth is an _ inexpressible
silence, except to the angels.
Nemerov says, ‘‘Both poets and
painters want to reach the
silence behind the language, the
silence within the language.’’”
Creeley substantiates this.

He pushes behind the Words

Which, awkward, catch

and turn him toa disturbed

and fumbling man.*°
St. John of the Cross’ ‘dark
night’’** resembles Creeley’s
dilemma. St. John says, ‘“‘...this
darkness and these trials, both
spiritual and temporal...are so
numerous and so profound that
neither does human knowledge
suffice for the understanding of
them, nor experience for the
description of them, for only he
that passes this way can
understand it, and even he can-
not describe it.’’** Stevens’
pigeons “sink/ Downward to
darkness.’’** At least they make
the flight.

All artists follow the pigeons
‘downward to darkness’’** (or
up towards the sun.) Just as
Polleck was ‘‘in’ his painting; **
so too is the poet in his poem.
The poet’s energy charges the
poem: he is a part of it as he is a
part of a universal. He realizes
his position in a grander
cosmology of the poem; in the
same way as the tools of the
painter are part of the grander
cosmology of the picture. '

‘Fure, Simpson, ‘Quotations
from William Carlos
Williams.”’

*T.S. Eliot, Four Quartets (New
York; Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich, 1971), p. 44.

‘George Gurdjieff, ‘‘The
Cosmic Pumping Station,”
Secret Talks With Mr. G.
(Idhhb, Inc. 1978), p. 77.

‘“Quotations from William
Carlos Williams,”

‘Gurdjieff, p. 77.

‘Ibid.

"Thid.

‘Quotations from William
Carlos Williams.”’

‘Thid.

‘“°Gurdg)jieff, p. 77

“Fure, Simpson, ‘‘Understand-
ing Stevens’ ‘Relations
Between Poetry and Paint-
ing.’ ”

“Eliot, p. 42

“Understanding Stevens’
‘Relations Between Poetry

and Painting.’ ”’
“H.H. Arnason, History of
Modern Art (New Jersey:

Prentice-Hall, 1978), p. 307
Ibid.

'*Armason, p. 308
‘Eliot, p.44
“Gurdjieff, p.77 |
“1Armason, p. 348
*Modern Poems., p. 98
**Arnason, p. 356.
“Gurdjieff, p. 77.

*SIbid.

“Understanding Stevens’ ‘Rela-
tions Between Poetry and
Painting.’ ”

"Eliot, p. 41

*Ibid., p. &&

*Robert Creeley, “Waiting,”

compiled by Fure, Simpson.

**Modern Poems, p. 99

*“Tbid., p. 97

“class notes 5/17/81.

*Fure, Simpson,
Statement.”

*“Arnason, P. 522

**Modern Poems, p. 339.

*Tbid.

"Charles Olson, ‘‘Projective
Verse,” compiled by Fure,
Simpson, p.4.

*Tbid., p.7.

*Tbid.

“Modern Poems,p. 98.

““Projective Verse,”’ p. 3.

“Ibid. ;

“‘Thid

“Ibid.

“sThid.

“Modern Poems, p. 98

“Ibid.

“‘Thid.

“Howard NeMerov, ‘‘Ho Poetry
and Painting With a Thought
of Music,” compiled by Fure,
Simpson.

‘Creeley, ‘“‘Waiting,”’

St. John of the Cross, Ascent of
Mount Carmel (Garden City,
N.Y.: Image Books, 1958), E.
Allison Peers, trans. and ed.,

p. 94.

*Tbid.

**Modern Poems, ,p. 94.

“Ibid.

58**Pollock’s Statement.”’

‘*Pollock’s

 
Confusion reigns
on Wall Street

by TOM ROHRIG

Back in the lazy, hazy days of
summer — August 17 to be ex-
act —- Mr. Kaufmann, Salomon
Brothers’ Chief Economist,
predicted lower short-term and
long-term interest rates. This
was enough to send Wall Street
buzzing to a new era of trading
volume and eventually, to an all
time high for the Dow Jones In-
dustrial Average. At the time of
Mr. Kaufmann’s switch to a
‘‘bull,”’ the descent in interest
had already begun, yet the
Prime rate was between
14.0-14.5% and the Discount rate
was hovering at 11.0%. The
Fed, by lowering the discount
rate, was purposively trying to
help out the sagging economy.
Indirectly, it mostly benefitted
the brokerage houses, the small
investors, and the portfolio
managers who continue to reap
the benefits to this day. Volume
on the Big Board soared to
astronomical levels, with the
record daily trading volume
now standing at 149,700,000
shares — a big leap from the
once heavy 70,000,000 shares.
With this increased volume and
the new bullish outlook, the In-
dustrial Average surged from
780 in mid-August to 1065 on
November 3 — a new all time
high. In fact, the advisers at
Dow Theory Forecasts, (along
with many others), expect the
Dow to reach the 2000 level and
to even stretch beyond that.

Yet when I focus on this re-
cent advance in the Dow, I can’t
help but notice that when the
Fed acts the investors follow, or
more recently, when the Fed
doesn’t act the investors run
scared. So I question, ‘‘Why are
the investors so stuck on the ac-
tions of the Fed?” Don’t the in-
vestors watch, or for that mat-
ter, care about, how the

economy is doing? I just hope

that the investors’ castle is not
built on quick sand.

The journalist and his sources

By FRANK JACKMAN

To a reporter, maintaining
the confidence of his various
sources may be imperative if he
is to remain effective.
Sometimes this means conceal-
ing the identity of a news or in-
formation source in the face of
subpoenas, grand jury question-
ing and possible jail sentences.
But are shield laws protecting
the journalist from punishment
for refusing to name his sources
really necessary? And who are
they designed to protect, the
source or the reporter?

It seems to me that far too
many journalists promise an-
nonymity to far too many
sources when it is really un-
necessary. Blanket promises of

Looking at the economy, all

' that I can sense is pure uncer-

tainity. Unemployment is at its
highest level since 1937, with the
current level being 10.4 percent.
And if you’re a Keynesian you
believe that consumer spending
will get us out of the mess we’re
in—but there are at least 10.4
percent of us who have nothing
to spend and this disregards
those who have given up the job
search and those that are bare-
ly making ends meet. On the
other side, inflation is now be-
ing held stable at around 5 per-
cent and this is good news to all,
especially to Ronnie. With
lower prices on such necessities
as food stuffs and gasoline,
those with money are now able
to hold onto it for a little longer.
Also, because of the lower in-
terest rates farmers hard press-
ed for cash can now borrow
money from a lending institu-
tion to order that they may buy
their spring seed. And, in-
novative entrepreneurs, com-
panies willing to expand, and
consumers in the market for a
new car are able to borrow
funds that carry lower interest
expenses. It is up to these
groups to move now in order for
industrial production to pick up,
thus resulting in many workers
being recalled.

Large companies who are
currently financially strapped
are redeeming old debt securi-
ties that carried the much
higher rates and replacing
them with new issues that are
now paying the lower rates.
This not only cuts down ex-
penses, but also makes finan-
cial statements look healthier.

So right now we are in a
waiting period — looking for
some sign of the direction the
economy is going. The laid-off
auto worker is waiting for new
car Sales to increase, investors
and brokers alike are waiting
for the next move by the Fed,
and the Democrats are waiting
for 1984!

annonymity or even partial pro-
mises should be the exception,
not the rule. Such promises
should be made in only extreme
circumstances when the life,
family or livlihood of the source
may be endangered for giving
information to a_ reporter.
Otherwise, the reporter should
carefully weigh the value of the
information against the de-
mands of the source before
making any promises. The
fewer times such promises are
made the more credible they
will appear to the public and the
courts when they are made. It
would be like the boy crying
wolf all the time, when the time
is really right to cry wolf
nobody will believe him
anymore.

 

By FRANK JACKMAN

I don’t think that too many
people would argue with the
contention that the respon-
sibilities of the press have
grown greater in the past
several decades. With the rapid
growth of technology and the
ever increasing glut of informa-
tion people of the world ‘‘socie-
ty’? have become more depen-
dent on the press than ever
before, as was pointed out in the
Hudgens’ report. And as the
report states, it is time for the
press to assume this respon-
sibility. If it is true that the
press has ‘“‘become a vital ne-
cessity...in the transaction of
public business’’ then the
responsibility of the press, I
think, as do others, can be said
to be at least two-fold.

First, the press through the
various media outlets must
disseminate news and informa-
tion in a clear and unbiased way
and in such a manner that the
public can relate it to the con-
text of the news day and the sur-
rounding environment. News
and information would seem to
me to be easier to assimilate
when put into perspective for

Also, shield laws could help to
promote abuses of the system
within the field of journalism
itself. Reporters who know they
can get away with fabricating a
story because they know that
they will never have to produce
their mythical source of infor-
mation are more likely to try to
get away with it. The trust plac-
ed in journalists by the public to
tell the truth would be severely
damaged by a series of ques-
tionable stories. Without this
trust, the ability of the jour-
nalist to perform his duties to
the public would be severely in-
hibited for the simple reason
that people would be wary of
what the journalist had to say
after a while. The integrity of
the field of journalism cannot

Lose, 982
The press in a changing world

the public. While this may be
easier said than done, I don’t
think that it is impossible.
Great care should be taken
though in attempting to do this.
If, as the Hudgens’ report main-
tains, it is no longer enough to
“report the facts truthfully”’
then the objectivity of the press
may be compromised in order
to “report the truth about the
facts.”

Secondly, the press and its
outlets must provide an open
forum for public discussion of
ideas and issues pertaining to
our society. It is essential that
all the points of view are heard
and that the public is given the
opportunity to freely discuss
these views and judge their
relative merits and faults. The
public must be exposed to more
than just the viewpoints of those
who control the press or the
danger of stagnation sets in. A
free society cannot afford to ig-
nore any side of an issue. As the
Hudgens’ report points out, the
press has the responsibility of
presenting all sides of an issue
or topic for public debate.

The type of media outlet
should not determine what is

afford to be compromised. The
public perception of the
reporter directly affects the
faith that they are willing to put
in what he has to say.

One may argue then that if
the lawyer-client relationship
and the doctor-patient relation-
ship are similarly protected
then why isn’t the reporter-
source relationship, As we
discussed in class, the primary
reason for this is that the ap-
propriate laws protect the client
and the patient in such cases. In
the case of the journalist it is
the journalist that is protected
in such instances and only in-
directly is the source protected.
In other words, shield laws are
designed to prevent the report-
er from going to jail not the

presented and what isn’t. All
media outlets have the respon-
sibility, as far as is technically
feasible, to present all view-
points possible that exist in our
society. Due to the technical
problems or aspects indigenous
to each outlet the responsibility
may have to be altered to fit the
format but not to change the
content.

We should consider one final
question. Who has the right to
determine the responsibilities
outlined above as well as those
that have been left out because
of space restrictions? I contend
that it is the duty of the press
itself and the right of the public
to decide on the responsibilities
of the press and the function it
should perform in society. If the
government is allowed to dic-

_ tate the responsibilities of the

press, even baeed on the above
criteria, then the possibility will
always exist for the com-
promise of First Amendment
rights. While this may not seem
relevant to this discussion, I
think it is because it is another
responsibility of the press to see
that its ability to keep the public
informed is not impeded by
anyone or anything.

source, except in special cases.
Without the protection of shield
laws it seems to me that a jour-
nalist may be less likely to pro-
mise annonymity except in
special cases. In a way the
possibility of a jail sentence
serves to keep the reporter
honest.

Finally, why invite govern-
mental interference when it is
not really necessary? This
seems to me to be asking for
trouble when there is already
enough to go around. To a
public that constantly hears the
journalist screaming about in-
dependence from the govern-
ment asking the government to
come in and regulate even a
single aspect of the trade may
appear inconsistent and fickle.
Page 10

Who is the journalist accountable to?

By STEVE WARREN
On most

readers and viewers, I find
myself befuddled.
Do we, as students of a

‘profession,

merely ‘“‘submitting’’ to the one
sure-fire object of accountabili-
ty, The Boss? As students, we
can foster ideals, make true our
aim, but for the most part, we
also must realize the impor-
tance of temporary silence as a
means of survival. The bottom
line, it seems, is the reality that
every media outlet will want
newcomers to conform to their
particular ‘‘flavor’’ of news. In
a tough job market, it’s not so
easy for an unemployed jour-
nalist to maintain integrity

Focus report

(continued from page 7)

5. An intellectual symposium
would provide additional oppor-
tunities for and encourage par-
ticipation in seminars and in-
dividualized research projects
and courses.

6. It could rejuvenate the
spring term. The spring term
was designed to allow students
to participate in research and
special projects that would not
normally be offered during the
regular fall and winter terms: It
has been observed that during
the spring term intellectual life
at W&L tends to slow down;
there are few speakers or
special events. An intellectual
symposium would provide addi-
tional academic and intellec-
tual opportunities.

7. It could guide academic or
career objectives for students.
Such a program would expose
participants to many different
subjects and could encourage
further study and interest. It
would also illustrate how a
liberal arts education relates to
practical problems.

8. It would allow students to
have a leadership role that they
might otherwise miss. One ex-
cellent feature of the Mock Con-
vention is that it involves a very
large percentage of the student
body with many students taking
on various responsibilities. An
intellectual symposium would
bring additional opportunities
for students and allow them to
become involved in an organi-
zation that would not demand a
long-term commitment.

9. An intellectual symposium
would add a distinctive feature
to academic and student life at
Washington and Lee, much as
the Mock Convention does.

The committee agreed that
the above list is by no means ex-
haustive.

Problems and Disadvantages

analytical
assignments, I can put myself
in a position to make a state-
ment of some type, but in trying
to say anything about the ac-
countability of the press to their

“vocation,’’ or
“craft” have any other way out
of this tangle, from that of

when faced with the options. So,
it is the boss to whom the jour-
nalist is immediately accounta-
ble; but it is to himself that he is
accountable in the long run.
Thus, the burden of such an
abstract moral principle rests
mainly with the individual, over
the long run, if he is to live with
himself; and itis also that of the
employer, in the long run, to ef-
fectively deal with a grander
sense of accountability — a
“‘responsibility’’ to The Public.
I’m not sure where I stand on
the various methods of account-
ability...there seems little to
say about the tried mechan-
isms, such as ‘‘Reporter
Power’’ (where journalists’ cor-
porations are formed at an
outlet to pool capital, thus own-
ing a majority interest in the
paper they serve) or unions
(where no dramatic work has
taken place other than to take of
immediate, individual in-
terests...salaries, talent fees,

and job security), or om-
budsmen/women (where only
the daily-circulation-of-over-
100,000 newspapers hire real
“‘thinkers’’ who will remind the
editors of ethical considera-
tions),... or some sort of profes-
sional organization that would
serve as a common forum for
standards. But many consider
these a threat to Free Speech.

Press Councils in the United
States have been slow to take
hold, when compared to other
countries. Sweden, for exam-
ple, had formed a national press
council as early as 1916. Britain
created one in 1952 to in-
depentently monitor the perfor-
mance of the news media, as
well as to investigate com-
plaints brought by the public or
government. It wasn’t until the
1960’s that the idea caught on in
the U.S., and even then it was on
a local level. In 1973, a National
News Council was established
in New York.'

The idea of a council is to mix
members of the trade with
members of the public, to ham-
mer out common ideals that
each can expect of the other. To
me, it would make little sense to
appropriate councils any more
power than that, little as it may
seem. The idea is to foster re-
sponsibility among individuals,
rather than to serve as ex-
aminers of worthinesss, as one
could view the Bar Associa-
tions. How do you provide in-
centive for an individual to ‘‘act
responsibly’’? Western tenden-
cy is to hold some object of
desire over the individual, so I
suppose a council could deny
membership to those deemed
“‘irresponsible,”’ but again, that
would be to assign worthiness,
and that would impinge upon
free speech.

I submit that this is a case
where virtue must be its own
reward. Members should not be
able to apply for member-

ship...instead, they could be
elected by their peers who are
not yet members, so that even
the organization itself could not
exercise self-indoctrination.
And the criteria to base mem-
bership upon could come from
the Council, in fact it should
come from that pool of resourc-
es...but membership would
have to be based on outsiders’
estimation of how well an in-
dividual lives up to the profes-
sional standards. Again, this is
to set up a group where mem-
bership is strived for, and at-
tained on the basis of merit,
rather than a group set up to
remonstrate ousiders, with
membership based on politics
and credential padding.

It may not be the type of thing
to change our problems over-
night, but I would think it could
be a step in the right direction.
‘Sandman, Rubin, Sachsman,

‘‘Media,’’ Prentice-Hall

(1976) p.82.

 

While recognizing the many
advantages such a program
would have, the committee also
found several problems and
disadvantages.

1. Sustaining interest in one
idea for an extended period of
time could be difficult. The
Mock Convention has the ad-
vantage that its topic is political
and always in the news. The
topic of an intellectual sym-
posium, though timely when
chosen, risks diminishing in im-
portance in the public view.

2. Such a program would pro-
bably require a_ substantial
amount of money, and fundrais-
ing could easily be a problem.

3. Student and faculty apathy
could make success impossible.
Forcing people to get together
to do something they are not in-
terested in would not be a
satisfactory or appealing
educational experience.

4. Members of the faculty (or
at least those who are not in-
volved in the event) might find
such a symposium too great a
distraction for students. On the
other hand, heavy student in-
volvement and interest would
be necessary for success.

5. It would probably be
desirable to include represen-
tatives of the neighboring col-
leges in the symposium, but
timing could be a problem since
all of the neighboring colleges
begin their summer vacations
before W&L.

6. The committee aggreed
that if an intellectual sym-
posium were a drain on the
Mock Convention, in terms of
participation, enthusiasm, or
funding, it would be undesir-
able.

Organization, Structure,
Format

The committee concluded
that the only effective way of
organizing an intellectual sym-
posium would bs for it to fall

under the jursidiction of the stu-
dent body Executive Commit-
tee in an arrangement similar
to that of the Mock Convention.
The Executive Committee
would appoint chairmen or a
steering committee to plan and
execute the event with the E.C.
acting in an advisory role.

Faculty participation on the
steering committee from the
first stages would be crucial.
Since the program involves
many academic aspects, sever-
al faculty members would need
to be heavily involved in more
than an advisory capacity.
They would help nurture in-
terest within the faculty and
through their classes. But the
role of the faculty should not
become too great. For example,
if the president or deans were to
appoint a steering committee
from the faculty only, student
interest would likely be very
low.

Extending the event over too
long a period of time would
make it difficult to sustain in-
terest and likely interfere with
the work of the Mock Conven-
tion. Therefore, the committee
recommended that the sym-
posium operate on a four-year
cycle, with the climax to come
on the even numbered years
where there is no Mock Conven-
tion. Planning would begin in
the fall after a Mock Convention
and continue throughout the
year with research beginning
that spring. Research would
continue throughout the next
academic year with a finale
taking place during the spring
term. (Example. Since a Mock
Convention was held last
spring, planning would have
begun this past fall, with the
Executive Committee appoin-
ting the steering committee.
Planning would be done
throughout the 1980-81
academic year with some

research projects taking place
this spring. Research and work
would increase during the
1981-82 academic year, and
would culminate during the 1982
spring term.) Such an arrange-
ment would not interfere with
the Mock Convention very
much, since the work that is
done the year after a convention
is not very great and the major
work does not begin until the
year before the event — which
would be the year after the in-
tellectua| symposium.

Throughout the planning
stages of the event the steering
committee would bring speak-
ers to the campus from the
various disciplines involved in
the issue or topic. Seminar
topics and independent study
projects would be designed in
conjuction with the topic.

Some type of finale weekend
event would be required to
make the program a success.
The committee thought such an
event should be held over a
weekend in the spring term and
include several different ac-
tivities. There would be groups
discussing the findings of their
research and work, public de-
bates, nationally reknown
speakers, and a social event.
There would be some type of
competition between groups or
individuals who have worked on
different aspects of the theme.
The journalism department
may wish to make some type of
film of the proceedings of the
event as a creative project.

One highlight of the final
weekend would be the compila-
tion of a ‘“‘platform’’ or ‘‘white
paper.’’ The document would,
the committee hoped, be of in-
terest to the media and various
institutions. At least part of the
document would include a posi-
tion paper of the student body
and faculty, much like the plat-
form of the Mock Convention.

It is unlikely that the E.C.
could fund such an organization
the way they fund other campus
activities, so the committee felt
that the intellectual symposium
should look to funding sources
similar to those of the Mock
Convention, particulary ap-
peals to corporations and foun-
dations. The symposium would
have a particular topic that
would surely coincide with the
interests of many corporations,
foundations, and individuals. In
addition, university groups or
departments could provide sup-
port. The ‘‘Contact’’ speaker
series, for example, might con-
sider using its resources to
bring speakers to speak on the
topic during the final year.

Possible Topics

When considering possible
topics the committee examined
whether or not a topic would be
worthwhile for every academic
interest at Washington and Lee
and whether or not interest in
the topic could be sustained for
a long period of time. The
following are suggested topics:

1. energy (a possible outline
for this topic has been provided
by the committee)

2. crime

3. athletics and education

4. government and the in-
dividual

5. world hunger

6. intelligent
Earth

life beyond

Submitted by the ad hoc
Committee Brainstorming the
Feasibility of a Quadrennial In-
tellectual Symposium at Wash-
ington and Lee University:
Franklin W. Brower III

Winston W. Burks III

P. Craig Cornett, chairman

W. Curtis Cowan Jr.

Edwin D. Craun

R. Christopher Gammon

Robert J. Mullican

H. Thomas Williams

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982, Page 11

 

 

Dana donates

The Charles A. Dana Founda-
tion has awarded Washington
and Lee University
under the foundation’s Alumni
Annual Giving Challenge Grant
program.

Washington and Lee was one
of five institutions throughout
the country which were award-
ed such challenge grants from
the Dana Foundation for the
1981-82 academic year.

W&L qualified for the $83,500
grant by increasing its annual
giving in four different cate-
gories — total gifts, the size of
the average gift, gifts from new
givers, and the percentage of
alumni participation.

The 1981-82 annual fund at
Washington and Lee exceeded
its $1,250,000 goal in achieving a
total of $1,279,983, establishing a
new high in total giving. The
fund posted a 9.3% increase
over the 1980-81 effort.

“We are quite proud of the
success of our annual fund cam-
paign and deeply appreciate the
Dana Foundation’s challenge
grant, which made an extreme-
ly successful annual fund even
more successful,’’ said
Washington and Lee President
Robert E. R. Huntley.

The Dana Foundation is a
private foundation chartered in
1950. The foundation has long
been concerned with the broad
fields of health and higher

 

$83,500 :

education, thereby reflecting
the interests and concerns of
the founders, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles A. Dana.

Through a program of grants
in higher education, the founda-
tion seeks to assist private in-
stitutions of recognized quality
in strengthening their in-
dependence and their educa-
tional capacity.

This is the second major
grant that Washington and Lee
has received from the Dana
Foundation. The first, in 1969,
was for $250,000 and was desig-
nated for use in the renovation
project that resulted in a new
home for the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics
— the Commerce School
Building — in what was former-
ly the undergraduate library
building.

Because the 1969 gift was
such an important element in
the accomplishment of that pro-
ject, the largest teaching area
in the Commerce School
Building has been named the
Charles A. Dana Lecture Room.

‘Everyone connected with
Washington and Lee University
should be grateful .for the sup-
port the university has received
from the Dana Foundation,”
said William Ford of Atlanta,
the chairman of W&L’s 1981-82
annual fund.

a
te
ad
od
*
Be
-
ee

Dr. L.K. Johnson, center, the Robert G. Brown Professor Emeritus of Administration at Washington

 

and Lee, greets the two W&L juniors who were awarded the L.K. Johnson Scholarship for 1982-83. From
left, Bill Foster of Newark, Del., Dr. Johnson, and Jet Taylor of Ventura, Cal. (Hinely photo for W&L)

Chapman heads Reeves Center

Benjamin L. Chapman has
been named program coor-
dinator of the Reeves Center for
the Exhibition and Study of
Paintings and Porcelain at
Washington and Lee Universi-

ty.

From left to right, first row: Cadets Lessely, Ridlon, Zaccagnini; second row: Cadets Stephen,
Woodruff, Ortiz and Kendrick. (Photo by Henry Dewing)

ROTC names officers

David Ridlon, a W&L senior,
has been elected Corps Com-
mander of the university’s Ar-
my ROTC for 1982-83.

Other W&L seniors who were
named officers in the Army
ROTC corps are Anthony Zac-
cagnini, Corps Executive Of-

ficer; Robert G. Ortiz, Adju-
tant; Newton Kendrick, In-
telligence/Security Officer;
Bowen Woodruff, Sup-
ply/Logistics Officer; and,
Robert A. Stephen, Assistant
Operations Officer.

Meantime, three W&L ROTC

cadets competed for and .won
the opportunity to attend the Ar-
my’s Flight Orientation Pro-
gram at Fort Rucker, Ala., this
past summer.

The three, all seniors, are
Zaccagnini, Don J. Dudley, and
H. Brady Millican III.

 

 

Announcement of Chapman’s
appointment was made by
James W. Whitehead, director
of the Reeves Center, which
opened in September and
serves as the permanent home
for the university’s two impor-
tant collections: the Reeves
Collection of porcelain and the
paintings by Louise Herreshoff.

In his capacity as program
coordinator, Chapman will be
primarily responsible for coor-
dinating student research pro-

i

jects and programs at the
center. He will also be involved
with planning for special
events.

A native of Greenwich, Conn.,
Chapman received the B.A.
degree from Washington and
Lee in 1964 and the J.D. degree
from the University of North
Carolina School of Law in 1967.

The appointment is effective
immediately.

Automatic rule
committee meets

The Committee on _ the
Automatic Rule will meet at
10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, Dec.
22, 1982 to consider the
academic records of those
students who have fallen under
the Automatic Rule:

1. Students who failed to meet
the conditions of Academic Pro-
bation required of them at the
end of the current Fall term;

2. Students completing a full
academic year who failed to
meet the cumulative average
required of their class.

The Committee will consider
for immediate reinstatement
all students who fall under the
Automatic Rule. If any student
wishes to inform the Committee
of extenuating circumstances,
he may write a letter to the
Committee and deliver it to the
Office of the Dean of the College
before the Committee meets.

In general, the Committee
grants few immediate rein-

statements. A student who falls
under the Automatic Rule has
severed his connection with the
university. If the Committee
does not grant him immediate
reinstatement, he is not eligible
for reinstatement until after the
passage of at least one calendar
year.

As soon as possible after the
Committee’s meeting, each stu-
dent falling under the
Automatic Rule will receive a
letter explaining his status.

ACADEMIC PROBATION

Any student not subject to the
Automatic Rule in December
who fails to achieve the
cumulative average required of
him at the end of Fall term, 1982
(see page 61 in Catalogue),
places himself on Academic
Probation for Winter Term,
1983.

Pamela H. Simpson, Chairman
Committee on the Automatic
Rule and Readmissions
 

 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982

 

Students respond

in droves to STU

About 600 Washington and
Lee University students have
found a better way to reach out
and touch someone this year.
They have joined the universi-
ty’s newly-formed Student
Telephone Union.

Proposed a year ago by the
student government at W&L,
the Student Telephone Union is
a co-operative that has entered
into an agreement with the Cen-
tral Telephone Company of
Virginia (CENTEL), the
telephone company serving
Lexington.

Under terms of the agree-
ment, members of the Student
Telephone Union are no longer
required to pay the _ initial
deposit of $75 to begin their
telephone service each year.

And if a union member does
not pay his monthly phone bill,
the union will cover a portion of
the bill to avoid having service
disconnected.

The cost? Membership in the
Student Telephone Union is $7
for the first year, $4 for the se-
cond year, and free for the final
two years of a student’s tenure
at Washington and Lee.

“Our target audience this
first year was the freshman
class, whose members would
come to Lexington without any
established credit ratings and
who would benefit most by be-
ing able to take advantage of
the union during their entire
four years at W&L,”’ said W&L
junior Lee Feldman, who is
chairman of the co-operative
that is being operated entirely

by students.

The union began by mailing
letters to the entering freshmen
explaining the new venture.
During the first two weeks of
classes, Feldman and his fellow
officers in STU manned a booth
at the CENTEL office to accept
memberships.

“We had expected that we
could have a membership of
about 150 students this first
year,”’ Feldman said. ‘‘That
was the number we felt we
would need in order to cover our
estimated liability.”

But by late October, the Stu-

dent Telephone Union had
slightly more than 560
members.

The plan, which is modeled
after a similar co-operative at
the University of Virginia, has
proved popular not only with
W&L students. Officials of
CENTEL are happy with the ar-
rangements as well.

‘“‘We have been very pleased
with the cooperation of the Stu-
dent Telephone Union,” said
Joyce Humphries, business of-
fice manager for CENTEL in
Lexington. ‘‘Lee Feldman has
been very helpful in establish-
ing the agreement between
CENTEL and STU. The
primary purpose of the agree-
ment is to permit the student
member to have telephone ser-
vice without having to pay a
deposit.

“This saves time for the
business office and for the stu-
dent when he applies for ser-
vice. It also provides a certain

 

Joyce Humphries, right, business office manager for the Central Telephone Company of Virginia in
Lexington, discusses Washington and Lee’s Student Telephone Union with W&L junior Lee Feldman,
left, chairman of the union, and senior Bennett Ross, president of the student government at W&L.

(Mason photo for W&L)

amount of security for the
telephone company with the
cooperative effort of the Stu-
dent Telephone Union to effect
prompt payment of telephone
bills.

‘‘We appreciate our telephone
customers, and prompt pay-
ments certainly make our job
easier. It also protects the
credit reputation of the
customer. We are very op-
timistic about the results of
STU.”

Feldman is equally optimistic
— so optimistic that he is ex-

ploring the possiblity of incor-
porating the union.

‘“‘We have also discussed in-
formally the possibilities of ex-
panding the union to cover other
utilities with which students are
involved in Lexington — from
electricity to cable television
service,” said Feldman. ‘‘In the
long run, a successful union
helps everyone, the students
and the Lexington businesses.
That is our aim. And so far I’ve
been extremely pleased with
the cooperation we’ve gotten on
all sides in this new venture.”

Local ski resorts add lifts, extra slopes

By ALLEN ROBERTS
Phi Staff Writer
Despite recent high

temperatures in Virginia, the
1982 skiing season has begun.
Meteorologists are predicting
an especially cold winter in the
mid-Atlantic states, and new
lifts and trails at nearby resorts
promise a good ski season for
Washington and Lee students.
Day-trippers will find three
new expert slopes serviced by a
triple-chair lift at Wintergreen,
offering a 1,003-foot vertical
drop. As part of a $2 million ex-
pansion program, the new “High-
lands area’ will be serviced by
a revamped snowmaking
system. A new water-cooling
device will allow more snow to
be made faster and earlier in
the season. Because the new ex-
pert slopes are removed from
the beginner and intermediate
trails, the Highlands area
boasts a special attraction to
the more advanced skier.
Wintergreen’s 10 slopes now

include three beginner runs,
two intermediate trails and five
expert plunges. One of the new
trails, ‘‘Cliffhanger,”’ is a nar-
row fall-line dive between the
trees. The longest of the new
slopes is ‘“‘Wild Turkey,”’ which
runs 4,450 feet under the new
triple-chair lift.

The addition of the Highlands
area makes Wintergreen the
largest night skiing spot in the
mid-Atlantic region. Lift tickets
and equipment rentals are of-
fered daily at a discount for
students with valid college I.D.
Except for the last five days of
December and Valentine’s Day,
midweek rates offer significant
savings. For students, a full day
lift ticket during the week costs
$12. Midweek half-day passes
for four hours of skiing sell for
$8, and night skiing tickets cost
students $9.

The unequipped mink can
rent skis, boots and poles for $9
midweek, and half-day and
half-night rentals cost $7. The

ski school uses the American
Teaching Method, and group
lessons of an hour and a half
will cost you $10. If your wallet
is thick, private lessons can be
had for $25. Weekend rates are
much higher than the weekday
fees, and the slopes are in-
variably crowded.

Wintergreen’s slopes are
open from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
every day, and on night-skiing
days from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Wintergreen is located just off
the Reed’s Gap exit of the Blue
Ridge Parkway near Char-
lottesville. It takes just a little
longer to get to the slopes than
to reach Mary Baldwin, so prox-
imity is the main attraction of
Wintergreen.

If you are unsure of ski condi-
tions at Wintergreen, you can
call the resort at (804) 325-2100,
24 hours a day.

Bryce Mountain in the
Shenandoah Valley is a family-
oriented ski area, but Massa-
nutten, off Interstate 81 near

Staunton, offers a nearby alter-
native to Wintergreen.

For the dedicated snowhound
willing to travel four hours by
car, Snowshoe in West Virginia
most nearly approximates the
challenge of New England’s
big-time restorts. The region’s
largest resort, Snowshoe has
just cut two new intermediate
trails and an expert run. The
new slopes will be serviced by
two newly-unveiled triple-chair
lifts, and feature 6000 feet of
uninterrupted cruising on
“Hawthorne.”

Despite these improvements
and the opening of three new
restaurants and a lounge, the
ski area has not raised its
package prices. The area’s ren-
tal and lesson fees are com-
parable to those at Winter-
green, while lift tickets are
justifiably more expensive.

Snowshoe offers 25 percent
discounts during ‘Wild, Won-
derful Season” until Dec. 17. If
you are fortunate enough to

The first test of the Student
Telephone Union came when
CENTEL’s bills went out
recently. The result, said
Feldman, was positive.

‘‘We had only two minor pro-
blems in payment,” he said.
“And both of those were resolv-
ed without any real difficulty.
I’m more confident than ever
that the union will be an ex-
tremely effective and suc-
cessful venture.”’

This story was prepared by
the W&L News Office under the
direction of Jeff Hanna.

finish final exams before Wed-
nesday, you can buy one night’s
lodging and a two-day lift pass
for $30.75. This special deal for

students can be reserved by
calling (304) 799-6762. Since

1977, Snowshoe has hosted the
season’s first skiers no later
than Nov. 27, and last winter the
resort caught 7% feet of
snowfall before Dec. 31.

Snowshoe is noted not only for
its mile-long ‘Cupp Run” but
also for its night life. Shavers
Center offers live entertain-
ment seven nights a week, and
pubs and bars like the Rocky
Racoon Saloon provide lively
apres-ski activity. For the stu-
dent hedonist there are hot tubs,
saunas and a swimming pool.

Information on these and
other ski areas can be obtained
from Herring Travel on Main
Street and Travel Unlimited
next to Liloyd’s. The W&L
Outing Club also sponsors group
trips to Wintergreen during the
Winter.
The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982, Page 13

 

 

 

 

God is dead, a late philosopher has said,
There are no values save those we create.
And yet who listens to the mad or dead?

We know the man that all ought emulate—
No classroom titan he, he’s not pre-med,
But socially he carries his own weight.

Go to the Pit next Tuesday for a drink.
You’ll surely see our hero — he’s The Mink.

His dress and manners show that he’s well-bred;
He’s quite well-versed in use of starch and wine.
Although in poetry he’s not well read,

He knows the value of a timely line.

His words do not reveal what’s in his head—
They’re masked in innocence—that’s by design.
His car’s a bit obnoxious, that is true—

He drives a tricked out BMW.

So raise a mug—The Mink! Long may he rule!

I sing his song because he’s not a bad

Guy, really, least of all the stupid fool

Some make him out to be. He’s just a lad

Who wants to have some fun and get through school,
And reap the benefits of majoring in pre-dad.

And when he uses his capacities

He’s much maligned for immoralities.

Before you call him stupid wait until

You’ve seeen him work a crowd of women late

At night—he’s a brilliant judge of men and still

A better judge of women. He can weight

In moments with a glance the female will,

And lust, and other facts, and separate

Awarm and sultry smile that’s sure to please
From the condescending grin of a Southern tease.

And our discerning hero sees through lots

More grand pretensions. Just last month he saw
Through selfish machinations, greedy plots

By curs whose victories have rubbed him raw—
The Moping, whining dolts that play like have-nots:
Of course I mean those in our school of law

Who view Woods Creek as if it were a wall

That separates the Hill from Lewis Hall.

The Mink

The Mink can’t understand why they’re so mad
Since they receive the benefits of all

Our other groups, and hence his taxes add

To their increase while they in turn recall

The greatest sum that can by guile be had

For their exclusive use. He sees the wall

For what it is — a mind forged, cheap excuse
To justify an SBA turned loose

VI

Vil

To plunder from the student treasury.
They do this on the weak pretense that none
Of us can understand minority,

As if tosay that we are all but one,

The Delt and SPE and Intervarsity.
Their plea for independence must be done
Through ignorance of different campus styles

Or else — oh can it be? To law school wiles.

VII

Their arrogance then rankles him again,

Their smug, anonymous attacks that never cease.
So humble leadership is what they’re fair in?

In fiscal matters kind at least?

They take their cue from the late Tom Gearen

On how to steal a two fold tax increase.

So the heads of SAB mismanagement too?

Perhaps their yearbook editor will do.

IX

They whine that Fancy Dress is on their break,

Woodwinds show
varied repetoire

By ROGER DAY
Special to The Phi

The critically acclaimed
Boehm Woodwind Quintette
performed last Thursday eve-
ning as the second of four Con-
cert Guild concerts. They
brought to Lee Chapel a perfor-
mance marked by fine musi-
cianship, excellent ensemble,
and a varied repertoire.

From this repertoire, the
quintette performed Quintetto
No. 3 in B flat, by Giovanni
Giuseppe Cambini, Characteris-
tic Suite by Manuel de Falla,
Quintet, Op. 9 by Josef B.
Foerster, and Wind Quintet by
Charles Wuorinen.

The Quintette opened with a
selection by the relatively
unknown Italian composer
Cambini, one of the originators
of music for woodwind quintette
music. This piece reflected the
group’s close knit sound and
harmony as well as demon-
strated the respective in-
dividual talents in the group.

By contrast the Wind Quintet
by modern composer Charles
Wuorinen showed the ability of
the Quintette to play in the dis-
jointed style characteristic of
contemporary music. Though it
was difficult to listen to the
Wuorinen piece, the musicality
of its performance was still on
par with the other selections.

The Quintette’s flowing rendi-
tion of Characteristic Suite by
Manuel de Falla, the 20th cen-
tury Spanish composer proved
to be the most pleasant selec-
tion of the evening and the au-
dience response reflected this.

The Boehm Quintette proved
in the end to be very worthy of
their critical acclaim. It was a
rare joy to listen to and enjoy
such an assembly of fine
musical talent, very dedicated
to their profession. The Concert
Guild Board and Professor
Stewart should count them-
selves lucky to have had them
on their 1982-83 calender.

And so for them entails unfair expense—
At least it makes a great excuse to rake
In bucks! The overweenies want some recompense—
We needn’t ask whose money they would take.
Here’s what we’d do if we had any sense;
Take half of all the taxes that they pay

And buy’em tickets to Detroit — one way!

X

The Mink likes better to have unity

In fact — parties, yearbooks, papers, not

The mutual benign neglect that we

With yellow, spineless bribery have bought.
They must be forced to join this university

As one, and if they don’t perhaps the cure ought
Be to make the law school unisex

And so remove that problem from Big Lex.

Tonight

The University Federation of
Washington and Lee University
is sponsoring a Christmas
Candlelight Service for the Lex-
ington community on Thursday
(Dec. 9) at 7:30 p.m. in the R.E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal
Church.

 

Rush concert works

tough crowd

By BRIAN J. OLIGER
Special to The Phi

The Canadian rock group
Rush illustrated just why they
have been labeled ‘‘the thinking
man’s heavy metal band’’ at the
Hampton Coliseum on Tuesday,
Nov. 31. Greeted by a surpris-
ingly unruly crowd, Rush pro-
ceeded to calm the group by
performing their latest album,
Italics, almost in its entirety
combined with a variety of
earlier tunes from 2112,
Hemispheres, Permanent Waves,
and Moving Pictures.

Fronted by keyboard player
and bassist Geddy Lee on lead
vocals, Rush roared through
some of its most popular com-
positions penned by Lee and
guitarist Alex Lifeson. Most of
the band’s powerful lyrics are
written by percussionist Neil
Peart, a former professor of
philosophy at the University of
Toronto, in the band’s home-
town.

The concert opened With the
ever-popular ‘“‘Spirit of Radio,”
leading into “Tom Sawyer.”
The performance also featured
the tunes “Red Barchetta,”
“The Trees,” ‘Vital Signs,”
“Limelight,” and a rousing ren-
dition of ‘‘Closer to the Heart.”
Thundering applause and
cheers indicated the crowd’s
approval for each song; in-
cluding a finely crafted medley
of “Xanadu” and “La Villa
Strangiato.’’ Called for an en-
core, the band struck up the in-
strumental ‘“YYZ,’’ inspired by
the code name and signal notes
of the Torono International Air-
port, much to the joy of the
ecstatic crowd.

The opening band was a
disappointment, lacking depth,
conviction, and acceptable
material to perform. The crowd
was not pleased. Eager for
Rush, they pressed against the
barricade in front of the stage

VERNON 0. WALKER
Custodian-of-the-month for
October.

hard enough that the stage
buckled. After repeated pleas
from the stage crew and a
threat of no performance, the
mob backed off. Following the
third tune of the show (‘‘Free
Will’), Geddy Lee asked the
crowd to stop throwing the
glow-in-the-dark objects that
filled the air between bands.
This request was honored until
the encore, when one sailed onto
the stage and hit Lee in the arm
as he played. This ellicited a
scowl from Lee, who was other-
wise unaffected by the incident.

Extensive use of film and
lighting created a dramatic ef-
fect. The most appealing use of
film in the show occurred dur-
ing the song ‘Countdown,’
written about the Space Shuttle
Columbia. Breathtaking shots
of the preparation and liftoff of
Columbia were projected on a
large screen behind the band as
it performed the song amidst a
cloud of fog rising from beneath
the stage. Peart says of the
song, ‘‘I only hope (it) comes
even close to capturing the ex-
citement and awe that we felt
(upon witnessing the initial lift-
off from Cape Kennedy).” It
did, as the crowd roared with
delight when Columbia lifted off
to the music of the band.

Peart, considered to be
among rock’s finest drummers,
played his traditional candy-
apple red mammoth set of
Tama drums during the show.
Lee played primarily a Ricken-
backer bass and synthesizers
by Moog and Oberheim. Lifeson
worked with Fender Stratocas-
ters of various color and vin-
tage, a Gibson Les Paul and an
Ovation Classical guitar.

Throughout the show, the
group combined musicianship
seldom found in heavy metal
bands, a superior light show
and a good ability to work the
audience.

 

BONNIE JONES
Custodian-of-the-month for
September.
Page 14, The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982

 

 

Cagers sport 3-2 record

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

After losing to Hampden-
Sydney on the road last Tues-
day, the Washington and Lee
basketball team rebounded to
win two non-league games at
home in the last week while
raising their record to 3-2.

W&L Coach Verne Canfield
had mixed feelings about his
team’s performance to date.
“I’m disappointed — but not
discouraged — because I know
they’ll keep working and be all
right,’’ Canfield stated.

At Hampden Sydney the
Generals almost pulled off a
tremendous comeback, but
came up just short. The Tigers
won 69-67. The Generals trailed
59-36 with about ten minutes to
play, but W&L closed within
three points with a minute to
play. The Tigers were able to
thwart the Generals rally, and
hand the Generals their first
Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference loss of the season.

Junior guard Billy Yates, who
hit a three-point halfcourt bomb
at the buzzer, led W&L with 25
points, 23 of which came in the
second half. Senior forward
Brian Hanson tossed in 16 points
for the Generals.

Although the new three-point
play rule in the ODAC aided the
Generals comeback in the Syd-
ney game, Coach Canfield does
not particularly like the rule.

“I think the three-point play
stinks. I was the only coach who
voted against it. A three-point
play in Division III at 21 feet is

ridiculous. I think it takes away
from team play,’’ Canfield con-
cluded.

Last Thursday in the Warner
Center the Generals burst out to
an early 17-4 lead and never
looked back as they defeated
Shenandoah College 56-48.
Shenandoah never closed within
more than seven points after
the Generals early streak.

Brian Hanson lead the way
for the Generals with 16 points
and 11 rebounds. Sophomore
guard Lex Fitzenhagen tossed
in 11 points.

Tuesday night, the Generals
came from behind to defeat
Averett College in the Warner
Center 55-50.

It was a seesaw battle all the
way as the Cougars jumped out
to an early 6-2 lead. W&L fought
back to as much as 16-8 after
Lex Fitzenhagen hit a layup to
complete a superb fastbreak.

The lead would change hands
twice again before the half
though. Averett converted two
successive steals into fastbreak
baskets to take a 29-26 lead with
2:09 left in the half. But the
Generals bounced right back,
with senior Jay Fechtel hitting
a baseline jumper at the buzzer
to give W&L a 30-29 half time
lead.

Averett took control of the
game early in the second half,
as the Generals appeared a lit-
tle sluggish. With seven min-
utes remaining, the Cougars led
at 47-42. |

Slowly the Generals began to

 

 

Washington & Lee
Bookstore

We havea great selection.

Books
Gifts That Last

8 - 4:30

 

 

Wednesday Night Buffet

ETH MACE RMIT iL

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and -

Garlic Bread you can eat for

Only
OO

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

Bute

PHONE 463-7000

 

whittle away the Averett lead.
Senior Frank Eppes grabbed an
offensive rebound and scored to
make it 47-44. With 5:16 remain-
ing Brian Hanson hit a driving
layup to narrow the Averett
lead to one point.

With a little more than three
minutes left the Generals final-
ly caught Averett, when Billy
Yates hit a driving layup to tie
the score at 48-48. Brian Hanson
stole the ensuing inbounds pass
and hit a short jumper to put the
Generals ahead for good at
50-48.

W&L held off Averett the rest
of the way in spite of the fact
that the Generals missed
several foul shots. Sophomore
David Wilkinson finally sealed
the victory when he hit both
ends of a one-and-one with 19
seconds left.

No General hit double figures
in the game, but Frank Eppes,
Brian Hanson and Billy Yates
all netted nine points. Lex
Fitzenhagen came off the bench
to contribute eight points.

Coach Canfield indicated that
he will continue to substitute
frequently as he did in the
Averett game. “We want to
keep fresh guards in the game.
When ‘I’m not satisfied with
the guards in the game, I will
substitue for them” he stated.

Canfield was fairly pleased
with the performance of his
front line against Averett, but
he noted that they failed to box
out on twelve occasions. “It’s
just a matter of better concen-
tration on their part,” Canfield
stated.

One thing Canfield is par-
ticularly pleased with is his
team’s academic performance.

“Half our team’s on the
Dean’s List. Our team’s
academic average is higher
than the school’s academic
average,’ Canfield reported.

After Wednesday night’s
ODAC game at home against
Catholic, W&L will not play
again until after Christmas
break. The week after break,
the Generals return to action

   

Do Your
Christmas
Shopping
Early at

   

 

 

 

The Shop for
4 PAPPAGALLO
§ 23 NORTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5968

 

Pie OMe: ‘

t
44
i

463-7174

Junior guard Bill Yates prepares to fire a shot against Hampden-
Sydney in action last Tuesday. Down by 23 points with 10 minutes to
play, the Generals staged a tremendous comeback, only to lose by 2

points. (Phi photo by Ken Ries)

 

with a home game Jan. 5
against SUNY-New Paltz.

On Jan. 7 and 8 the Generals
will host the W&L Invitational
Tournament. Three Penn-
sylvania teams, Thiel, Lebanon
Valley, and Franklin and Mar-
shall will be W&L’s competition
in the tournament.

write
for

the Phi!

“We don’t invite patsies.
Franklin and Marshall have
been nationally ranked for the
last five years,’’ Canfield
stated.

 

 

 

WPVLPVLPY PIV VL POLIVG

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

Plan Your Holiday
Vacations,
Fraternity
Giveaway
Weekends
Early!

Call: .

 

   
   
 
The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982, Page 15

ESM Bl OOO OER CERES RENE HEARERS SE LETT DALE ELSES ALE LL OLED ERLISTE LEELA ELLER NELLIE ALLELE REE EE LANAI.
MLR STE SLANE PLONE SONNE ELLER LOE BEA DEAN LEELA ELLE LLLP SELLA LEELA LELLLDIELSALAALLELE AEE LEE NPL PEELE LEELA AA LE REL ENE

Freshmen pitch in at Invitational

By SCOTT SLADE
Phi Staff Writer

Three Washington and Lee
wrestlers took places out of the
ten standard weight classes in
last weekend’s ninth annual
W&L Invitational.

Brian Lifstead and Larry
Anker both placed fourth at 126
and 134 pounds respectively.
Jeff Dixon was defeated in the
second round of the double
elimination play by the winner
of 190 pound class but won con-
solation matches to take the
number three spot in the
heaviest class.

Washington and Lee was
seventh out of the eight teams
which included Georgia Tech,
Campbell, Hiram, Gettysburg,
York, crosstown rival VMI and
a ‘“B’’ squad composed of
wrestlers from both W&L and
VMI.

VMI defended their title with

a team score of 11214 which out-
distanced the second place
team Gettysburg by 62%, points.
VMI had six first place
finishers.

The remaining teams were
ranked as follows: Hiram, third
with 4714, Campbell fourth with
40%4, Georgia Tech fifth with 34,
York sixth with 32%, W&L
seventh with 16%4, and the ‘“‘B”’
squad with 15%.

The Washington and Lee
wrestlers entered this tourna-
ment with a 1-0 record after
grappling to a close 22-21 vic-
tory over the Tigers of Hamp-
den-Sydney in Farmville last
Wednesday night.

The Generals next match will
be against the wrestling team of
Lynchburg College Dec. 8 in
Doremus Gym. Lynchburg’s
record stands at 0-1 after a
decisive 43-7 loss to Longwood
College last week.

 

Freshman wrestlers Brian Lifsted (left) and Larry Anker (right) both placed fourth in their respec-
tive weight classes at last Saturday’s W&L Invitational. Coach Franke is counting on freshmen to fill
many of the lower weight classes. (Phi Photos by Ken Ries)

W&L hosts state swim meet, places fifth

By MIKE STACHURA
Assitant Sports Editor
The W&L swim team turned
in what Coach Page Remillard
termed a ‘‘pleasant surprise’’ in
last week’s Virginia State
Men’s Swimming and Diving
Championships hosted by the
Generals.

Despite their fifth place finish —

behind James Madison (first),
Virginia Commonwealth (se-
cond), Richmond (third), and
VMI (fourth), Coach Remillard
said he was “pleased with the
performance.”’

‘“‘We’re swimming well with
consistency,’”’ remarked the
Generals’ mentor. Remillard
went into the meet realizing
that his swimmers’ first priori-
ty was going to be studying,
rather than swimming, but still
he noted, ‘‘We have some very
good times for this early in the
season,”

Leading the Generals’ times
over the weekend were junior
Tim Rock and freshman Tim
Stanford. Both Rook and Stan-

ford were just shy of the NCAA
Division III Championships
qualifying standards. Rock took
a third in the 1650-yard free-

style with with 16:52.92, just a.

half a second off the qualifying
mark, while Stanford placed
third in the 100-yard butterfly,
broke his own school record set
on Nov. 18, and was also just .17
of a second off that qualifying
time.

Rock also captured another
third-place finish, this time in
the 500 free, to round out his
performance. Stanford, mean-
while, finished his work by tak-:
ing fifth place in the 200 fly.

Other leaders at the Cham-
pionships for W&L included
junior Gary Meyer in the 100
and 50 free, sophomore Bob
Pearson in the 100 free and 200
fly, and freshman John Moody
in the 500 free and 100 fly.

There was another story over
the weekend that dealt W&L
swimming a major setback. In
what Remillard called a “‘tragic
loss’’ the Generals’ junior cap-

 

 

We

Merry Christmas

TRAVEL
fuvian (oe.

Ski Austria From $599

For further information give us a call.

 

 

19 South Main

Lexington, Va.

 

463-2197

 

 

 

 

tain and freestyle sprint leader
Rand McClain left the team to
concentrate on his academics.
“I respect Rand’s decision.
He’s a talented athlete and his
contributions will be missed,’
commented a noticeably dis-
traught head coach.

“But,” he was quick to add,
“I see the team meeting the
challenge already. We have our
best young nucleus in a long
time.’’ Remillard noted that he
sees continued improvement
down the road. He also expects
to have four or five swimmers
qualify for nationals.

POOLSIDE: VCU’s Joe Brad-
ford, who copped the 200-yard
individual medley, 400 IM, and
100-yard free titles, was named

setting performance knocked
.34 off his old mark, quite an im-
provement in just two weeks

Remillard noted that the
Championships were bed well

run thanks to the help of the
maintenance staff and,
especially the secretarial help
of Carolyn Leech...W&L returns
toaction aaa 14at oe

We Pack Christmas Baskets
Lots of Christmas Gifts in Stock
Swimmer-of-the-

Year...Stanford’s _record- | 116 N. Main St. a
hc OS CS He OI Ce OI Ie OS I OI ‘
‘The Food Service oe .

wishes you GOOD LUCK on Exams °
SNACK BAR & SUPPLY STORE 2

will be open for your convenience on
SATURDAY 8 a.m. -2 p.m.
SNACK BAR will offer FREE coffee
Fri., Sun., Mon., & Tues. nights 8 - 11 p.m.
for members of W&L community

also
Egg McQuicks will be available 99*

The mes will close at 8 p.m. during |

exams ie Degianing Monday

  

  

 

oe

:
4

    

 
Page 16, The Ring-tum Phi, December 9, 1982

 

 

 

a DASC
meee RECORDS |
i b$.89 Comp or: $8.19 C
ae ‘
‘ : ea KO -
Orel
® ° ditio
pti. ,
‘ \ \

 

 

 

 

 

 

Surely Someone On
Your Christmas List
Deserves A

Boston Traders
Sweater...

Let us help you with your
gift selections.

Quality sportswear for
men and women.

 

lexington dry goods

Corner Nelson & Jefferson
463-9340

 

oes,
one
or ere’
rere
ener
OO
a eee
OO
eres
OG

 

 

Mecrerny (P\1.\S opera house
Eat $3.99

Thurs. & Fri. Sat. Dec. 11 Wed. & Thurs. Tee aT

 

 

STEPS | The Deal | KILLER SCY.

 
 

VOLUME 82

Ring

NUMBER 14

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

-tum Phi”

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia January 13, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Generals shell Lebanon,

Canfield’s 300th win,

  

Pil

(W&L photo by Ken Ries)

Washington and Lee’s senior forward Brian Hanson rises through
the crowd in the game against Lebanon Valley in which he reached
the 1,000 point career mark last week.

SAB wants $30 for FD

BY RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

The Student Activities Board
is considering a $5 price in-
crease for Fancy Dress

Weekend Tickets, according to
FD Director John Haywood.

Haywood explained that
under the proposal the overall
expense would only go up $2 or
$3 a couple. Part of the price in-

crease would be used to sub-
sidize the Thursday night party.
Traditionally, the Thursday
night function has been a con-

cert, but last year’s concert
featuring the Atlanta Rhythm
Section lost approximately

$13,000. Haywood emphasized
that this year’s Thursday night
festivities would involve more
than one band and would pro-

bably include beer. ‘‘We’re just
re-structuring the ticket price,”
Haywood said.

Student body President Ben-
nett Ross was doubtful. ‘‘What I
want to prevent is raising the
ticket price just to raise the
ticket price. I’m not convinced

by ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Opening the New Year with
three straight wins, the
Washington and Lee basketball
team captured the champion-
ship of the W&L Invitational
and notched Coach Verne Can-
field’s 300th career win.

W&L defeated SUNY-New
Paltz 80-66, Thiel 93-65, and
Lebanon Valley 115-73. The
Generals’ overall record now
stands at 7-2, and the Generals
have reeled off six straight
wins.

Canfield noted that the past
basketball players, the present
basketball family which in-

cludes the parents, and the

loyal fans and faculty that sup-
port the team all deserve part of
the credit for the achievement.
Canfield is especially grateful
to the small group of students
who consistently attend the
games.

Senior forward Brian Hanson
also reached a- milestone this
week, scoring his 1,000 career
point mark.

The team as a whole also
seems to be hitting its stride. In
none of the three W&L victories
last week did the opposition
seriously challenge the
Generals after half time.

“We're playing the way we
should be playing,” stated Can-
field. ‘‘There are some awfully
good signs. What we’re looking
for now is consistency. We want
to continue to do everything
we’re doing,’’ he concluded.

Canfield was also pleased
with the play of some of his
younger players coming off the
bench. He noted that sopho-
mores Jackson MacFarlane,
Lex Fitzenhagen, and Dave
Wilkinson in particular have
made large contributions com-
ing off the bench.

In the victory over New Paltz
the Generals took control of the
game at the outset. A little more
than three minutes into the
game the Generals had opened
up a 12-3 lead over New Paltz;
W&L expanded that lead to
49-25 at the half. Junior forward
John Lee Graves tossed in 19
first half points and Lex
Fitzenhagen added. nine points
off the bench.

New Paltz came out strong in
the second half, scoring the first
eight points of the half. The
Hawks never managed to close
within striking distance of the
Generals though, and W&L
earned a comfortable 80-66 vic-
tory.

Graves led the Generals in
scoring with 24 points. Junior
Billy Yates and Fitzenhagen
also hit double figures for the
Generals with 12 and 13 points
respectively.

In the opening round of the
W&L Invitational, Thiel trailed
the Generals by only seven
points with 4:40 left in the half.
For the remainder of the half
the Generals shutout the Tom-
cats while scoring 19 points of
their own.

“This is due to our defense,”’
noted Canfield of the stretch of
dominating play by the
Generals. ‘‘When we play good
defense, it starts to wear on the
other team,’’ Canfield said.

W&L continued to control
play in the second half, and had
no trouble in posting a 93-65 win.
Billy Rates fired in 19 points for
the Generals and Hanson and
Graves both hit double figures
also.

In the championship game of
the W&L Invitational, Lebanon
Valley managed to stay within
ten points of the Generals at the
half despite a superb perfor-
mance by W&L senior Frank
Eppes. Eppes poured in 17 first-

Hanson’s 1,000th point

half points to spark the
Generals to a 46-36 half time
lead.

The second half turned out to
be even better for the Generals,
as W&L scored a school record
69 points in one half. A three-
point play by Graves put the
Generals over the 100 mark
with 6:09 still to play, and the
Generals tacked on 15 more
points to rout Lebanon Valley
115-73.

Eppes was the principle con-
tributor to the carnage with a
career high 28 points. Graves
hit for 21 points in the game,
and Yates and Hanson tossed in
19 and 18 respectively.

The 115 points was the most
ever scored by a Canfield team,
the previous mark being 114
also against Lebanon Valley in
1974. The school record of 119
points in a single game remains
intact.

W&L placed two men on the
All-Tournament team, with
Yates and Hanson receiving the
honor. Hanson was named the
tournament’s Most Valuable
Player.

Lebanon Valley received the
second place trophy and
Franklin and Marshall defeated
Thiel 96-84 to finish in third
place.

W&L’s next contest is an Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
game tonight in the Warner
Center versus Emory and
Henry. As of Monday, Emory
and Henry was 0-3 in the con-
ference and 1-8 overall.

The Wasps have at least two
fine players on the front line.
Boo Chafin, a 6-6 forward, is
averaging 16.9 points per game
and 6-9 center Dave Lawrence
is averaging 12.5 points per
game.

that they know what their pro-
jected expenses are going to
be,” he said.

Haywood replied, saying
‘“‘we’re trying to be very
careful. We’re using very con-
servative sales estimates and
realistic cost estimates. Alumni
participation could swing either
way so we’re not depending on
them to balance our spending.”’
Originally, the SAB had plan-
ned to present their proposal to
the Executive Committee on

Monday, but this was delayed
until next week so that the SAB
could double-check some of
their less certain expenses —
particularly in the areas of
decorations and T-shirts.
Referring to the amount the
EC gives the SAB at the begin-
ning of the year, Ross said,
“Students are going to have to
pay for it one way or another,
however you cut it.”” This year
the SAB was allotted $8,000 for
Fancy Dress Weekend. Hay-

wood estimated that the entire
budget for the weekend would
approach $50,000. This is con-
siderably less than the more
than $70,000 the event cost last
year. Last year’s event, which
was plagued with waste and
poor management, was more
than $20,000 over budget, but
Haywood says that this year
will be different. “‘We’re faced
with a mandate from the EC
that we can’t lose money,” he
said.
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1983

 

Editor Resigns

Citing academic reasons, Todd Smith resigned last
week as editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum Phi. News
Editor Bill Roberts has taken over until a permanent
replacement is elected by the publications board.

Applications for the position of the editor-in-chief
should be submitted to the board immediately.

Roberts, a journalism major, has served as news
editor since mid-November.

Todd Smith’s contribution to the Phi has been
outstanding this year. The layout, writing and depth
of coverage of the paper have improved im-
measurably because of his guidance. Smith has
brought dedication and sensitivity to this paper. He
deserves our gratitude and recognition.

Huntley: a Man
‘of grace and style’

Editor’s Note: The following resolution was adopted by the facul-
ty at its Jan. 3 meeting and is published here at the faculty’s re-
quest.

The faculty of Washington and Lee University praises Robert
E.R. Huntley for his firm leadership during the past fifteen hears
and congratulates him on the outstanding success of his presiden-
cy. His accomplishments are too numerous to note here in detail,
but at this final meeting at which he presides the faculty wishes to
acknowledge with gratitude certain of his achievements.

As president he has been an eloquent spokesman for the small, in-
dependent college and for the liberals education it is uniquely
equipped to provide. His vision of the goals which Washington and
Lee should pursue has been broad and clear, and he has worked
tirelessly to realize them. He has been as mindful of the universi-
ty’s past as of its future, achieving progress that is consistent with
tradition. Both a pragmatist and an idealist, he has ignored neither
the possible nor the utopian and leaves office only after bringing
the university to its strongest position in history.

To that office he brought exceptional qualities of intellect and
character. In dealing with a multitude of questions that only he as
president could resolve, he has shown the finest attributes of a
disciplined mind — incisiveness in identifying issues, judiciousness
in weighing alternatives, fairness and wisdon in reaching deci-
sions. His confidence in the future of Washington and Lee has in-
spired countless others, and his resulteness of purpose has given
the university stability and direction during an era of un-
precedented change. i

He has made the university a central part of his life, and those
who live and work here his daily concern. Toward all of them he has
been cordial and open, utterly without vanity or pretense, and gen-
uinely and deeply interested in their welfare. He has enjoyed an
especially cordial relationship with the faculty, whose meetings he
has often brightened with his sense of humor. He has repeatedly
described the faculty as the greatest strength of the university and
has supported and encouraged it with deeds that matched his
words. He has invariably respected its rights and privileges, and in

turn has grown increasingly to rely on his advice and sound judg-

ment. As president he has remained simply himself, a warm,

humane man who has deservedly won the affection and admiration

of the entire university and of its alumni and friends.

For a decade and a half he and Mrs. Huntley have performed
their roles as president and first lady with grace and style. As they

now complete these roles the faculty expresses its sincere thanks,

and it wishes them, as he has wished thousands of graduates, good

luck and Godspeed.

 

CORRECTION: In the Dec. 9
issue of the Ring-tum Phi, we
ran a story about the Wednes-
day night ‘‘beat’’ of a Lexington
police officer.

While traveling with the
police officer, our reporter saw
a person whom he identified in
the story as Lexington Mayor
Charles F. Phillips. This iden-
tification was incorrect, as Dr.
and Mrs. Phillips were in
Roanoke that night.

 

..» Notes ---

The Ring-tum Phi regrets this
error and any inconvenience it
caused the Phillips family. Also
the Phi regrets that quotes at-
tributed to the officer may have
been either inaccurate or con-
fusing.

Calyx
SENIORS: Please drop by
Carole Chappell’s office to fill

out a senior information sheet
for the Calyx.

 

 

,
er

alee

a

s

WHA
Dur

 

 

Phillips’ statement

Kirby ‘out’ but still in

By BILL ROBERTS
- Editor-in-Chief

Lexington Police Chief James
A. Kirby resigned last week
after Lexington City Council
received the final report of
special investigator L.M.
Walters. But Kirby has been
reassigned within the depart-
ment of police as an inspector to
begin active duty when a new
police chief is hired to take his
place. In the meantime Kirby
will remain on administrative
leave.

Council commissioned
Walters in September to con-
duct an investigation into the of-
fice of the chief of police after
allegations made during the
theft ring trials last summer
raised questions about the ex-
tent of Kirby’s knowledge and
involvement.

Mayor Charles F. Phillips Jr.
said the Walters’ report will not
be made public. The full text of
Phillips’ Jan. 6 statement and
Kirby’s letter of resignation
follow.

“In March of 1982, all of us in
Lexington were shocked to
learn of the alleged thefts, over
a period of years, by then-
current and former members of

Nominations for

Pinney Award

At the end of January, the
University Council will award
the Edward Lee Pinney Prize to
‘“‘an undergraduate student who
demonstrates extraordinary
committment both to personal
scholarship and to the nurturing
of intellectual life at
Washington and Lee.” The
prize, which commemorates a
gifted teacher of politics, was
given last year to senior James
Franklin Williams. Any stu-
dent, faculty member, or ad-
ministrator who wishes to
nominate a student for the prize
should send the nomination to
E.D. Craun in Payne Hall by
Tuesday, Jan. 18.

our Police Department. For
both the City government and
Lexington residents, the entire
episode has been an embarrass-
ment.

“Upon the conclusion of the
cases brought by the Com-
monwealth’s Attorney, City
Council felt an obligation to
Chief James A. Kirby and to the
citizens to undertake a com-
prehensive study of the Office of
the Chief of Police. In late
September, Council hired a
man of impeccable credentials
and years of experience — Mr.
L.M. Walters — to make that
study and to report his findings
to City Council. We felt it ab-
solutely essential to separate
fact from rumor, before any

decision could be made
concerning a reorganization of
the department.

“The need to make such a
separation of fact from rumor is
well illustrated by citing but one
example. It has been widely
reported that Chief Kirby

 

received a 14-page memoran-
dum from a member of the
Police Department, detailing or
expressing suspicions about
thefts by members of the
department. As late as this past
Wednesday morning, this state-
ment was repeated in a
newspaper story about Coun-
cil’s Special Meeting on. the
previous evening. And yet, this
statement, so widely circulated,
was a rumor and not a fact. As
is made clear in Mr. Walters’
Report, and in testimony beforé
the Circuit Court by the State
Police Investigator, the so-
called 14 page memorandum
was given by an officer to Chief
Rhodenizer — not to Chief Kir-
by — and had nothing to do
about alleged thefts by
members of the Police Depart-
ment.

“It was just such rumors that
lead to Mr. Walters’ study for
Council — his report was given
to Council on Dec. 8, 1982.

(continued on page 4)

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

BP IO 0b a4 he a ob Li ek Bill Roberts
DINOS THRNAGET oo iy ha 06s (ee i etd re eek Steve Perry
eS ere ee Evans Attwell
EO 05 cv gh tr ee irises (Se Wi ta cts Jim Laurie
GT Inco 5 ein ho a EA hs ees i as Gh a a sik ct Lee Nichols
FAA BOE th NO og 65 ak aa tik da ae cea Mike Stachura
5 0 Fg cs hy ss ie B. Scott Tilley
MN oh oh ih ss hd kd fh a ae David Sprunt
rN si hac aks 0 0 Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell
Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

Pee OS CII Fo bcs LR eeis ib hTi cer rh re Paul Casey
Assistant Entertainment Editor ................ccccccececsceceecs David W. Johnston
DOOD 6 60 6 ea 0 sh ae Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell
John Cleghorn, John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,

Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter, Allen Roberts,

Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler

Me ND i ails eo vis ss kc Tom O’Brien
I ince a tease AG Al Bryant, Charles King,
Brad Huston, Tim Mulreany, Jim Wood

BO i ane Jim Wood
iii Aisa iiss iia Tim Mulreany, Jim Strader

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
Exhibit :

An exhibition of works by con-
temporary American artist
Lowell Nesbitt have beeen on
display in Washington and Lee
University’s duPont Gallery
since January 3, 1983.

The exhibition, including oil
paintings, etchings, serigraph,
and stained glass, will remain
on view through January 28.

Lowell Nesbitt Display in duPont

The Nesbitt exhibition was ar-
ranged with the support of Dr.
and Mrs. Jacob Joseph Wein-
stein of Washington, D.C., who
have been loyal patrons of
Nesbitt for almost 20 years.
Many of the paintings that com-
prise the exhibition have come
from the Weinsteins’ personal
collection. Dr. and Mrs. Wein-
stein have been active in their
support of Washington and
Lee’s art program and have
established the Dr. Jacob
Joseph and Mrs. Bernice Fox
Weinstein Collection, which
features a number of important
art works, at the university.

Nesbitt is a native of
Baltimore, Md. He earned the
bachelor of fine arts degree
from the Tyler School of Fine
Art in Philadelphia in 1955 and
studied stained glass and etch-
ing at the Royal College of Art
ii London for two years.

He taught printmaking at the
Baltimore Museum of Art for
three years and also worked for
four years at the Phillips Collec-
tion in Washington, D.C., before

moving to New York in 1963

where he has lived and worked
ever since.

According to Debora Rindge,
instructor in fine arts and direc-
tor of the duPont Gallery at
W&L, Nesbitt’s style is influenc-
ed dramatically by the fact that
he uses photographs rather
than real objects in the creation
of his work.

“He uses photography as both
a matter of convenience and a
method of distancing himself
from the object,” notes Ms.
Rindge. ‘Some photographs
are taken by him, some by other
photographers under his direc-
tion, while others are found im-
ages discovered in catalogues
specializing in, for example,
seeds or machine parts.”’

An extremely prolific artist,
Ms. Rindge observes that
Nesbitt ‘‘tends to concentrate
intensely on one theme at a
time....”’

He is perhaps best known for
his paintings of flowers. Many
have compared his paintings of
flowers with those of Georgia
O’Keeffe. One critic has even
referred to Nesbitt as ‘“‘the
foremost living painter of
flowers.”’

Nesbitt has had numerous
solo exhibitions in some of the
world’s major galleries and has
been commissioned to do
several works, including paint-
ings for the National

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and - XX

Garlic Bread you can eat for

Oh
OO

600 E. NelsonSt. Lexington

Siti

PHONE 463-7000

 

   

ML

The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1983, Page 3

(W&L photo by Patrick Hinely )

 

Artist Lowell Nesbitt discusses his current duPont Gallery exhibition with Debora Rindge, the gallery
director. Nesbitt presented a lecture on the exhibition last Friday. The exhibition will be on display
through January 29. DuPont Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturdays,
and 2 p.m. to4 p.m. Sundays. The Nesbitt exhibition is part of a month-long celebration of the renovation
of duPont Hall, Washington and Lee’s fine arts building.

 

 

 

 

W&lL Lacrosse

"The Brice Street Band’”’

in Evans Dining Hall on
Friday, January 21
$5.00 Donations -

See Lacrosse Players

Free Beer with Admission

presents

 

Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration of two Apollo
launchings. His paintings are
also included in some of the

| VARNER
& POLE

115 South Main Street

For your extra

 

country’s most important per-
manent collections.

DuPont Gallery is open to the
public at no charge. Gallery

hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mon-
day through Friday, 11 a.m. to 4
p.m. Saturdays, and 2 p.m. to 4
p.m. Sundays.

The Southern Inn

Serving Quality Foods to

Students, Alumni and Parents

for 50 Years.

 

Research Papers

TYPING

Term Papers

etc.

 

Paper typed on a computer with
word processing capability.
90° page

 

includes:

Original
copies available

 

- computer checked spelling
- corrections made - paper reprinted
- last minute insertions or deletions

- perfect paper

(minimal chg.)

Call: Dianne
463-6685

 

 

  

 

=

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

0 0 0 0
Hamric & Sheridan
JEWELERS

 

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

ras

f

 

 

11 W. Nelson

 

 

463-2022
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1983

 

Superdance Plans

To Raise

By TOM BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Plans for the fifth annual
Washington and Lee Muscular
Dystrophy Superdance are pro-
gresssing well according to
Townsend Oast, Superdance
Committee Co-chairman.

The committee has set a goal
to raise $24,000 in this W&L
tradition which is designed to
involve the entire Lexington

| community. The event will take

place in Evans dining hall Jan.
28-30.
Dancers are expected from

all the local women’s colleges,

VMI and Lexington High

| School, but the committee is
| trying to stress the importance
| of participation of W&L

$24,000 |

students.

“Dancers will have the best | |
seats in the house to hear the | |
bands,” said committee |
member Steve Geary. He added
that they will be provided with
food, beer and T-shirts.

Both Oast and Geary stressed |
the importance of participation |
of upperclassmen and fraterni-
ty members.

“There has been lots of in-
terest but now people have to
decide to dance,”’ Oast said.

Prizes for those dancers who |
raise the most money include |
trips to New Orleans, the
Greenbriar, and the Home- |
stead. In addition, a trip to |
Hilton Head, S.C. will be raffled

off for those who bring in at
_ enhoued on page 8)

 

TRAVEL C UNLIMITED

BUY EARLY — SAVE!

Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

Make Plans For February Break

 

The Cockpit

WASHINGTON AND LEE

UNIVERSITY

& Ask For Good Deals
About Nassau!

LL
463-7174

   

 

Kirby

(continued from page 2)

Subsequently, Chief Kirby re-
quested a meeting with City
Council and, because of the
Holiday season and the need to
give everyone time to prepare
for that meeting, it was held
last Tuesday night, Jan., 1983.
Last night, Jan. 5, 1983, the
Special Meeting was continued
so that Council could meet with
its consultant.

“A few minutes ago, in Ex-
ecutive Session, Chief Kirby
presented the following letter to
Council:

‘* ‘Effective this date I hereby
tender my resignation as Chief
of Police for the City of Lex-
ington, Virginia, and do
respectfully request that I be
assigned to another position
within the police department.

“Tt has been my privilege
and pleasure to serve as your
Chief of Police these past years.
I appreciate your consideration
of these matters.’ — Respectful-
ly submitted, James A. Kirby,

 

Hi6 N. Main St.

We Pack Specialty
Baskets Made To Order

Chief of Police.

“City Council accepts, with
appreciation, Chief Kirby’s
resignation as Chief of the Lex-
ington Police Department. In so
doing, however, Council wishes
to emphasize that it has never
questioned James A. Kirby’s
loyalty to the Department and
the City, or his personal honesty
and integrity. Our consultant’s
report supported our position,
when it was concluded: ‘In the
course of inquiries conducted,
no one has suggested that Chief
Kirby was other than personal-
ly honest.’

“However, the consultant’s
report did confirm our concern
about the lack of vigorous ad-
ministration of the Police
Department. As a result, and to
provide improved administra-
tion, the City will immediately
begin the process of advertising
for, and hiring, a Chief of
Police; a process that will take
several months.

oS] (eS ees

 
 
    

The COCKPIT

wants tobe

* New Luncheon Menu Items

¢ Quickest Service

 

YOUR place for lunch

(that’s right, the quickest in town)

"Sneaker a acealariaer heat en ac

FREE Small Beverage
with this coupon — TRY US.

One per customer (LUNCH ONLY)
Offer expires Jan. 22nd

 

“In the meantime, Sergeant
Beard has consented to remain
as Acting Chief. We would be
remiss if we failed to express
our deep appreciation, on
behalf of all the citizens of Lex-
ington, to Sergeant Beard and
the other members of the Police
Department for their extra
work and strain during these
difficult months. Their dedica-
tion has made is possible to pro-
vide adequate protection during
a period of severe shortages.
They deserve our sincere
thanks.

“In his letter of resignation as
Chief, Mr. Kirby requested
reassignment within the Police
Department. This request, we
are pleased to announce, also
will be granted, thus making it
possible to retain the services of
an individual who has served
the city continuously for over 30
years. In keeping with discus-
sions between City Council and
the City Manager over the past
few years, concerning the need
to reorganize and strengthen
the Police Department, and
upon the recommendation of
our consultant, Council will
establish a position of Inspector
within the department, which
will report directly to the Chief
of Police. The City Manager has
approved Mr. Kirby’s appoint-
ment to that position. This addi-
tion will strengthen the Police
Department and fill a serious
need in providing protection
within the City. It is con-
templated that Mr. Kirby will
assume that position upon the
hiring of a new Chief of Police.

“To the citizens of Lexington,
let me add a final word. As
noted earlier, the events of the
past ten months have been an
embarrassment to us. all.
However, speaking for the
Mayor, and Council, the City
Manager, and the City At-
torney, we express our ap-
preciation for your patience and
understanding as we debated
the proper, long-run solution to
the problems presented. We
hope that you will continue to
show the same patience and
understanding in the coming
months as we select and greet a
new Chief of Police to our com-
munity.

Russian Speaks
On Monday

Yevgeniy V. Afanasyev, se-
cond secretary of the Soviet
Embassy in Washington, will
speak on Soviet foreign policy
on Monday, January 17, at 7:30
p.m. in Washington and Lee
University’s duPont
Auditorium.

Afanasyev’s lecture is being
sponsored by the International
Club at Washington and Lee.
The public is invited to attend.

Afanasyev was assigned to
Washington in 1976 and pre-
viously spent five years in Pek-
ing. He studied at the Moscow
Institute of International Rela-
tions.
ol er HAE

Gg A

The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1983, Page 5

 

Sinfonia Performs Annual Concert

By BRUIN RICHARDSON
Special to the Phi

Annually there is a
remarkable event that takes
place on the campus of
Washington and Lee. A small
symphony, the Richmond Sin-
fonia, performs in an equally
small building, Lee Chapel, and
the result is magnificent. Such
was the case this past Monday
evening. Playing to a large and
responsive audience, the Rich-
mond Sinfonia not only con-
tinued the high standard of ex-
cellence that has been exhibited
in the past two Concert Guild
presentations, they added the
element of graceful power
which can only be achieved by
performers so well suited to
their stage.

The Sinfonia, conducted by
Jacques Houtmann, began the
evening with Mozart’s Diver-
timento No. 11 in D. Major. The
piece was crisply played, as
were all the selections, and was
well received by the audience.
Following the Mozart was the
Symphony No. 103 in E-Flat by
Franz Joseph Haydn. This sym-
phony, known as the “Drum
Roll,” was a distinct change of
pace from the Divertimento,
and it displayed the Sinfonia’s
abilities accordingly.

MD

(continued from page 4)
least $100 in cash at registra-
tion.

There will also be activities
for the dancers during the
marathon that include wake-up
exercises with Coach Norman
Lord and a hairy-legs contest.

People interested in dancing
should pick up registration
packets at Carole Chappell’s of-
fice. At least $65 in pledges is re-
quired to dance and people may
register as late as the day of the
Superdance.

Thurs.

Following intermission the
Sinfonia presented Albert
Roussel’s ‘‘Sinfonietta for
Strings.’’ A work from the early
20th century (1934). This selec-
tion was reminiscent of early
movie scores. However, regard-
less of one’s bias toward 20th
century music, the piece was
well played and it effectively

presented still another style of
music.

The final piece scheduled on
the program was Mendels-
sohn’s Symphony No. 4 in A Ma-
jor, the “Italian.” The last
movement of this work involved
a race between the symphony’s
wind instruments and strings.
On this occassion the strings

‘Discreet’ Film Friday

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation of
the 1982-83 season will be Luis
Bunuel’s ‘‘The Discreet Charm
of the Bourgeoisie’ (France,
1972; 100 minutes). The film will
be shown at 8 p.m. in Classroom
A of Lewis Hall in the W&L Law
School. There is no charge for
admission and the public is in-
vited.

“Discreet Charm of the
Bourgeoisie”’ is one of the most
accomplished works of a
master film-maker and _ its
humor and insight will
delightfully astonish the
viewer.

The plot, such as it is, of
‘Discreet Charm’ involves the
attempts of a group of well-to-

do people to have dinner
together. Their efforts are
repeatedly frustrated by a
series of interruptions, and it
becomes apparent that these in-
cidents are various dreams ex-
perienced by the  film’s
characters, each dream drama-
tizing fears ranging from mere
social embarrassment to
violent death.

Bunuel and other surrealists
consider “plot” and ‘“nar-
rative” to be inhibiting artistic
conventions. Uninitiated
viewers will certainly find it
disconcerting when the film’s
“plot” continually deteriorates
into a discordant series of ap-
parently unrelated bizarre oc-
currences,

were victorious, but the winds
were certainly not losers in that
this piece allowed them to
display a great deal of talent
and technique. In response to
thunderous applause the Sin-
fonia played Beethoven’s
“Overture to Prometheus’ as
an encore, a fitting end to a fine
concert.

The next Concert Guild
presentation will be on March

10 as they sponsor a concert by
the Stradivardi String Quartet
at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Students of W&L and surround-
ing colleges are admitted free
of charge. Concert Guild Board
members include Professor
Robert Stewart, James
Baldwin, Roger Day, Todd
Jones, Christopher Schram,
Bruin Richardson and Jeffery
Wells.

RED FRONT
GROCERY

 

Michelob & Michelob Lite

6/12 oz. cans

$2.49

 

 

 

 

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

 

 

War and Fantasy Games

Available including

Dungeons and Dragons

and Traveller.

 

463-3335

 

31S. Main St., Lexington

10 to 5 Mon-- Fri.
10 to 4 Saturday

 

 

—— MUSIC THIS WEEK —~—

Fri. Halls of Grass

30.N. Main

Sat.

Bruce Wallace Band

The Convertibles

463-9331

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

uccdays

IN

The Cockpit
W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

Glen Phillips

    

 

 

 

January 18

 

 

“It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1983

 

President Wilson Takes Office Monday

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Dr. John D. Wilson, who is to
succeed Robert E.R. Huntley as
president of Washington and
Lee University, will make his
first official appearance before
students and faculty next
Wednesday at a combination
ceremony for Founders’ Day
and the annual Omicron Delta
Kappa convocation.

Wilson takes office Monday
and will be the keynote speaker
of the assembly, which is to be
held at 12:30 p.m. in Evans din-
ing hall. Class schedules will be
shortened for the day, which is
Robert E. Lee’s birthday.
Outgoing president Huntley is
expected to introduce Wilson.

Omicron Delta Kappa is a na-
tional honor society founded at
W&L in 1914. ODK states its
purpose as the recognition of
“leadership in various fields
—scholastic, athletic, social,
religious, and literary.”

Inductees to the society will
be ‘‘tapped’’ in at the
ceremony, and special recogni-
tion will be given to Professor of
Politics, Emeritus, Rupert Lat-
ture, who is the only living foun-
ding member of ODK.

Farris Hotchkiss, Director of
W&L’s Development Office,
says that the ODK and
Founders’ Day events have
been held on the same day for a
number of years. “For a long
time,’’ he said, ‘‘there were two
separate assemblies...but as
time marched on, the practice
of university assemblies grew
more awkward.

“As we moved into the 1960s
and 1970s, it seemed more sensi-
ble to combine the Founders’
Day and ODK ‘tap’ ceremony.”

Hotchkiss said, ‘“‘it seemed a
particularly appropriate time
for Wilson to talk to the faculty
and students.’’ He said, ‘We
will be there to welcome him to
the campus and tell him we’re
glad he’s the president.”’

The identity of ODK inductees
will remain secret until the
ceremony. Hotchkiss said that
“in more recent years, three or
four adults are tapped into ODK
as honorary members.” He
says they are “almost always
alumni’’ who ‘‘for one reason or
another were not inducted while
they were here but have achiev-
ed notably well in their careers
and so are recognized after they
graduate.”

Founders’ Day, Hotchkiss

said, ‘“‘observes, as the name
implies, the founding of this
university. It harks back to our
origins and recognizes that
there would be no university if it
hadn’t been for the men who
literally hundreds of years ago
founded it.”

The ceremony, ordered an-

‘ nually by the Board of Trustees

is, according to Hotchkiss, ‘‘a
time to stop and make that
observance. It commemorates
the origins of the school and the
tradition from which it
springs.”

The ceremonies will be held
in Evans Dining Hall, and
Gerald Darrell, Director of
University Dining and Food
Service, says box lunches will
be provided for students. Con-
tract students may pick up the
lunches from the No. 1 serving
line immediately following the
ceremony.

“To make up for the box
lunches,” he said, ‘‘that night
we'll be having our annual
Founders’ Day Dinner.’’ The
“special General Lee’s Celebra-
tion Dinner’’ will consist of all
southern foods — fish chowder,
peanut soup, steamship round
of beef, fried chicken, spoon
bread, and corn on the cob. It’s

maxell.

available to non-contract
students for $5 or six points.

Dr. Wilson was elected to the
presidency just prior to the
start of classes this year, and
will be inaugurated on May 19
at the Board of Trustees
meeting. In 1968, Huntley took
office in February and was in-
augurated eight months later.

Huntley, the only alumnus to
serve as president of the univer-
sity since before the Civil War,
will be returning to his former

HV Process

BY RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

The Executive Committee is
clarifying its position concern-
ing students who withdraw in
the face of an honor hearing.

The clarification provides
that if a student withdraws
before his hearing, he is no
longer in good standing with the
Alumni Association. Previous-
ly, only the Registrar’s office
was notified of this change in
standing. The policy clarifica-
tion was made at the request of
the Alumni Board.

“The definition of alumnus as

MAXELL
LNC-120—2 BAG
List $11.18

position as a professor at the
W&L Law School.

Wilson, who will be moving
into Lee House this weekend,
will be the university’s 21st
president. He comes to Lex-
ington from Virginia Poly-
technic Institute and State
University, where he was pro-
vost and executive vice presi-
dent. Prior to that, he was presi-
dent of Wells, a small, liberal
arts school for women in New
York.

Clarified

relating to the honor system is
not clear and we have referred
this to the Executive Commit-
tee of the student body with
hopes that we will have a
response by our Spring
Meeting,” G. Russell Ladd
wrote in a letter to the Board of
Trustees of the univeristy dated
Oct. 12, 1982.

‘“‘We’re just balancing the dif-
ference between what the
Alumni Office has and the
Registrar has,’”’ Bennett Ross,
student body president, explain-

Under the new policy, a stu-
dent who withdraws under such
conditions would not be con-
sidered an alumnus and would
not receive alumni mailings, in-
vitations, or the Alumni
Magazine.

“T really can’t see someone
who withdraws in the face of a

 

MAXELL OUR PRICE $7.99

UDXL II Deal
2-UDXLII
c-90’s
Reg. $10.98
NOW $9.98

hearing wanting to give
money,’’ commented John
Vlahoplus.

The committee as a whole has
approved the policy and is
waiting to approve the specific
wording before making it of-

WHITE
FRONT

We welcome
back all students
by offering
Busch Beer at
$1.99 a six pack.

MAXELL
UDC 90 2-PACK
Reg. $8.98
NOW $7.49

MAXELL
LNC-46—2 BAG
List $5.18

Records - Tapes OUR PRICE $3.89

Stereo Components

LEXINGTON - BUENA VISTA SHOPPING PARK 463-9494

 

 

 

TDI.

TDK
DC-60 2-PACK
Reg. -$4.99

NOW ONLY $3.99

TDK
DC-90 2-BAG

 

 

MEMOREX
HI-BIAS—3 BAG

audio-
technica

Reg. $17.97

Sal 90 2-Pack NOW $11.98

Reg. $10.98 tia

oo Mot Siz Stereo Component

— SUPER CUT-OUTS —

100’s of Hard-to-find LP’s, from $1.99
Over 1400 Used LP’s, starting at 10°

 

Cartridges

AT110E Headphones

 

AT125LC

 

 

 

 

 

Charge accounts
still available

From.
$29.95 - $149.95

List $65.00 List $130.00
. — _ i “on $49.95 RS TUNER/AMPLIFIER
* Sensitive AM/FM ster: 4
_ * Plenty acm a A
+ Separate bass and treble controls. ; 1
opener et This week specials
@sanvo SANYO Micro-
AM / Shortwave /FM Stereo ini Size Stereo Cassette
Cassette Recorder with Player
2-Way Speakers

@SANYVO Mini- SANYO Mini

Size AM/FM Cassette M/FM Stereo Cassette Player
Stereo Player with Lightweight Stereo

@ SANYO AM/FM
Cassette Recorder with
Variable Monitor

ne

be> © |
$999

Kraft American
Singles $1.99

List $499°°
Our Price

$429%

Bounty Towels 75°

 

Pepsi and

$ 95
149 Coke

*4997 — $7g9s $59 $59”

$1.99

 
. Te ieee ed

py

St tl, em

Swimmers open ’83 season

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L swim team reopens
its 1982-83 schedule this
weekend with meets against
James Madison in Harrison-
burg on Friday and a three
squad contest on Saturday here
in Lexington where the
Generals will face VMI and
Towson State.

Fourth-year head coach Page
Remillard sees his 2-1 Generals
traveling a road of constant im-
provement. Remillard is quite
pleased with the individual per-
formances and attitudes that
have been developing. ‘‘They’re
looking forward to every

Water Polo

workout and so am I,” said
Remillard.

In a word, Remillard sum-
med up the swimmers’ practice
performance: ‘‘Super.”’ He con-
tinued, saying, “I’m totally con-
fident that each swimmer will
be justly rewarded for their ef-
forts this year.”

This month will be comprised
of five dual meets, and although
the W&L team role will not be
dominant one, Remillard hopes
his individual swimmers will
start to come into their own dur-
ing this time. ‘‘The big
challenge will be their ability to
perform despite the team’s
results,’’ noted the Generals’
mentor, who also explained that

Remillard to lead

News Release
Sports Information Office

Venturing into the interna-
tional realm of athletics,
Washington and Lee University
aquatics director Page
Remillard will serve as team
leader/envoy for the United
States water polo entry in the
1983 World University Games at
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

The International University
Sports Federation, sponsor of
the games, anticipates 4,500
athletes and officials represen-
ting 85 nations to compete in the
bi-annual event, set for July
1-11. An estimated 700,000 spec-
tators will enjoy water polo and
nine other sports; track and
field, swimming, diving, cycl-
ing, fencing, basketball, gym-
nastics, volleyball, and tennis.

Remillard will join head
coach Peter Cutino and assis-
tant Robert Horn to direct the

Wrestling

Generals

By SCOTT SLADE
Phi Staff Writer

The Blue Devils of Division I
Duke University ceded only one
match to the Washington and
Lee wrestling team in action
last Saturday en route to

posting a 46-3 win. Jeff Dixon
salvaged a 9-5 decision after
falling behind early in his 190 Ib.

match. The loss drops the
Generals’ overall record to 2-1
on the season.

‘According to Head Coach
Gary Franke, the young

General squad ‘“‘seems to be
progressing.”” Last month’s
W&L Invitational and last
week’s match-up with Duke has

provided Franke’s team with
some formidable and hopefully

nation’s best water polo players
in competition on July 8, 9, 10
and 11 in the 4,700-seat Kinsmen
Aquatic Centre. Cutino is water
polo mentor at the University of
California at Berkeley, Horn is
head coach at UCLA.

“This is a remarkable oppor-
tunity for a man who has
already proven himself a suc-
cesful water polo leader at W&L
and across the nation,’’ states
Bill McHenry, W&L director of
athletics. ‘“‘The university is
honored and proud to have Page
selected for such a fine assign-
ment.”

In four seasons Remillard has
guided the Generals to a 94-35
record, the 1981 and 1983
Southern League titles, and four
appearances in the Eastern
Championships. Outside the
university, he coached the gold-
medal East water polo team at
the 1981 National Sports
Festival in Syracuse, N.Y. and

during the dual meets we’ll try
to ‘‘accentuate the highlights of
the individuals.”’

Leaders for the Generals
heading into the dual meet
schedule include junior Gary
Meyer in the sprints, classmate
Tim Rock in the 500, 1000, and
1650 yard freestyle events, and
freshman Tim Stanford in the
butterfly. Remillard looks for
all three to qualify for the
NCAA Division III Champion-
ships.

After the Towson State-VMI
meet, the W&L swimmers
travel to Shepherd College on
Jan. 21 and then return home
next Saturday with a meet
against Georgetown University.

U.S. team

directed the silver-medal South
squad at the 1982 Festival in In-
dianapolis. He has also served
as an assistant coach for the
U.S. National Junior Develop-
ment team during the past
three summers.

“The Sports Festivals and the
National Junior team provided
tremendous first-hand coaching
experiences. In Edmonton I
hope to expand my experiences
in sport administration and
public relations,’’ reports
Remillard, who describes his
Games’ position as one of a
manager and troubleshooter.

‘In simple terms, I’ll make
sure that all the coaches do is
coach and the players play.
Specifically I'll handle
itineraries and training ar-
rangements, solve problems
with officials and equipment,
and secure any materials and
information we may need.

“T’ll keep tabs on everything

fall to Blue Devils

valuable experience. The
Generals will be needing this
experience when they travel to
Atlanta this weekend to com-
pete in tournament action
hosted by Georgia Tech, as only
one of the other seven op-
ponents is a Division III school.

The team will be starting four
freshmen and no seniors this

weekend as the Generals’ cap-
tain Tim Valliere will be sitting
out this weekend with a sprain-
ed ankle suffered against Duke.

However, Valliere should be
back strong and in the starting
line-up for the W&L Invita-

tional, to be hosted in the
Warner Center on March 22.

RESTAURANT

Specializing In
CHINESE @POLYNESIAN ®AMERICAN
FOOD AT ITS “FINEST”
EXOTIC DRINKS & COCKTAILS
SERVING LUNCH & DINNER

Call- 463-9342

Hours: Closed Mondays - Open Tues.-Fri.

11:30 AM-10:00 PM - Sat. 4PM-10PM ;

Sun, 12 Noon-10PM - Sun, Buffet 12 Noon-3PM
*

Daily Luncheon Special

Sunday Chinese Buffet 12 noon-3 pm

409 S. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON
DINNER-CHOICE OF 60 ENTREES

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1983, Page 7

 

Head coach Verne Canfield discusses strategy with his players

during a time-out against Lebanon Valley College in last weekend’s
W&L Invitational. The Generals coasted to a 115-73 victory in the
contest, Canfield’s 300th win in his 19 year W&L career. (W&L

photo by Ken Ries)

 

and everybody when the team
isn’t in the water.”

Remillard expects the U.S.
team to comprise ‘‘about a
dozen players, all of whom will
be candidates for the 1984 U.S.
Olympic team and many of
whom will play on that team.”’
All World University Games’
competitors must be between
the ages of 17 and 28 and must
have attended a post-secondary
institution no more than one
year prior to the event.

Remillard, 35, joined the
W&L staff in May, 1979 after
serving as aquatics director at
Claremont Men’s College in
California. In addition to his
W&L water polo responsibilities
he is head coach for the
Generals’ swim team and is an
assistant professor of physical

 

 

AST LEX |

BEER

education.

The 1983 World University
Games will begin the day
Canada celebrates its 116th
birthday. It will mark the first
time Canada or the United
States has served as Games’
host since they were organized
in 1923 as a modest event for a
few European schools. The In-
ternational University Sports

Federation, or ‘‘Federation In-
ternationale du Sport Univer-
sitaire’’ as it is formally known,
began sponsoring the Games in
1959. The 1981 Games, held in
Bucharest, involved 4,369

athletes and officials from 86
countries. Other recent sites in-
clude Mexico City in 1979, Sofia
in 1977, Rome in 1975, and
Moscow in 1973.

 

SILLLLAAAA Ad

BUD 12 PACKS.......$4. 59

SSSSASSSASASSSS SASS SSDS LIAL SSSI SSS Sa

 

FOR SALE }
| Deep Fat Fryer-208 volt.......9275

fe
Wooden Bakers Table..........2175

Fireplace Screen and Irons
Electric-heat-o-lator..............290°°

 

 
sea sa Ring-tum Phi, January we 1983

  

WOOLSWEATERS 40% orr

Boston Traders ¢ Byford
Cambridge Dry Goods « Lord Jeff

SPORTCOATS....... 06.30. .5..:: See

nn

Harris Tweeds ¢ Camel Hair

7 SIERRA DESIGN JACKETS .......40% orr
jy

CG AS... 8k... eee

100% Cotton Corduroy ¢ 100% Wool

ONE GROUP BUTTON DOWNS .. . 2ior®25

RW MAW WDD IU Www

MG AAAA WNW

are

100% Cotton g 50 y

Y

TIES e e« @ e@eeeeeee@ ° @..@.8 @ @.-0 © €@6.8-@ ©: 606 B82 4 3 for 27 y

Repps ¢ Foulards « Challis Y

Y

Y

“ Y

Many More Great Buys lexington dry goods Student Charge Accounts Welcome j

ZY Corner Nelson & Jefferson VISA’ l
463-9340

QR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

§
i This month at the P WV : 5
7 &
; a
% t
= MON DAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY :
4 10 11 12 13: 14 15 g
rc | “woe | Sneakers =| iiewu |  Krakajax | Krakajax = [
3 0 6 Modern Rock-n-Roll from Lexington’s Our very first band — one of Help us relive that first z
a f All you Buddy Holly to the Clash. best music Richmond’s best. weekend. 2
a ! how. i
a E Py ail Hower Heue i
i D prices all night ¥
i No Cover 2
i &
.. # 18 19 20 21 af
‘ e Mexican Night} Liquid Pleasure | isc Jockey Houserockers Union Pacific ;
: 0 All You Can Returning for their 3rd time ag sy im Returning for theirsecond | Debuting at the Opera House. g
. Eat! The best dance and funk to hit Sims thie appearance to bring the Commercial Rock. Maybe §
5 . Special Beer the Opera House yet. All a ght house down dancing. one of best bands yet!
: D Prices No Cover ;
; 24 25 26 27 28 ai
3 PB Mexican Night Good Guys Disc Jockey Happy Feet Happy Feet : :
. 0 a Yes Music of the 60’s combined | 5€ aoe Charlottesville’s newest band. - Top 40 hits a
n Eat! i
é S with Regge. ite fear 4
5 E Special Beer All Night "Remember to always bring 8
® D Prices No Cover your I.D.—Neat Dress Requited 5
Se es CUT ALONG DOTTED LINE & SAVE! Se OO A OS A A
 

 

VOLUME 82

NUMBER 15

THE UNIVERSITY LIGRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, YA, 24450

JAN 21 1983

Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia ‘January 20, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

  

"President John D. Wilson making his first address to the Univer-
sity during the ODK ceremonies yesterday. (W&L News Office

photo)

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Dr. John D. Wilson,
Washington and Lee’s new
president, made his first ap-
pearance before the faculty and
students Wednesday afternoon
at a combination celebration of
Founders’ Day and induction
ceremony for Omicron Delta
Kappa, a national honorary
leadership society.

Calling Washington and Lee
‘‘a unique institution, honored
in the world for its fidelity to
high standards,’ Wilson told
the standing room only au-
dience of students and sup-
porters, ‘‘I believe deeply in the
possibility of progress, and
moreover, I think it is an essen-
tial...underpinning of the work
of a serious educational institu-
tion.”

Wilson, who officially became
president at 8:28 a.m. Monday,

a Wilson takes office

succeeds Robert E.R. Huntley,
president since 1968. Huntley
will now return to the faculty of
Washington and Lee’s Law
School.

At Wednesday’s assembly,
Huntley said it was ‘‘a special
delight” to introduce Wilson,
‘“‘not just because it spells
relief, not even mainly for that
reason.”

In Wilson’s previous positions
as provost at Virginia Tech and
earlier as president of Wells
College, Huntley said Wilson
had been ‘‘justly praised by
faculty and students as ex-
emplary in every way.”

Huntley said that having
Wilson as his successor is ‘“‘the
latest proof that our guardian
angel is still on duty.” He said,
‘Washington and Lee and John
Wilson are right for each
other.”’

In turn, Wilson, 51, said, ‘“‘Bob
Huntley has given to this in-

Transition running smoothly

By ART BELL
Special to the Phi

Former Washington and Lee
University President Robert
E.R. Huntley and President
John D. Wilson both experienc-
ed inauspicious, yet humorous
endings to the four-and-a-half
month long transition period
that ended last weekend.

Huntley spent his last hours
as president Friday afternoon

worrying about a sudden break-
down of the payroll program in
the university’s computer
system. Then, over the weekend
the univeristy’s telephone
system also broke down, coupl-
ed with a loss of power to the
lights in the main collonade
building.

Wilson, before starting out on
his usual pre-breakfast jog
Monday morning, accidently
locked himself out of the Lee

House after moving in over the
weekend. Wilson still managed,
however, to reach his office on
time that morning to be sworn

in as W&L’s 21st president.

Frank A. Parsons, who has
served as Assistant to the Presi-
dent since 1959 coordinated the
transition phase after the board
of trustees announced its selec-
tion of Wilson to succeed
Huntley as president back in
September.

The initial problem con-
fronted in the transition, Par-
sons said, was in trying to time
the release to the news media of
Wilson’s selection with the ac-
tual election by the board of
trustees. Major newspapers
around the state had learned
that Wilson was the top choice
of the executive committee of
the board of trustees as much as
a week before the board’s ac-

(continued on page 3)

stitution his entire professional
career to date, virtually his en-
tire adult life, and he promises
still much more.”’

“‘He has added to its strength
and promise and its prosperi-
ty,”’ Wilson said.

Saying that Washington and
Lee is ‘‘prosperous in every-
thing that truly matters,”
Wilson said it has “‘a first-rate
faculty of scholars and
teachers, a highly selected com-
munity of first-rate students
drawn from a large national
pool, a stunningly attractive
campus that is both graceful
and functional, and a devoted
and generous family of alumni
and freinds.”’

Wilson said Washington and
Lee has a reputation ‘‘for its un-
wavering confidence in the ef-
ficacy of the educated mind, for
its faith in the power of the ra-
tional life.”’

Progress was the theme of his
address, and the new president
asserted that ‘‘progress sur-
vives here, must survive here, I
submit.”

Although Wednesday was the
day for “‘formal celebration’”’ of
the school’s founding fathers,
Wilson told students: ‘‘Let us
try, for a moment or two, every
day, to give thanks to those
whose gift of this place we en-
joy.

“We can do this in large and
small ways to be sure. But the
most signifigant and lasting
way is for all of us to commit
ourselves to leave our part of

(continued on page 3)

Soviet diplomat calls for peace , cooperation

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Staff Writer

Framed by portraits of
Generals Washington and Lee,
Soviet diplomat Yevgeniy V.
Afanasyev called for ‘‘increas-
ed cooperation’ between his
country and the United States
Monday night.

Afanasyev, second secretary
of the Soviet Embassy in Wash-
ington, told a Lee Chapel au-
dience that we are undergoing
“a very important period in
Soviet-American _ relations
because from the start of the
detente process we have moved
to a more dangerous state
where we are seeing more and
more arms on both sides.

“The state of our relations is
not good,” Afanasyev added.
“We are probably at a low
point.”

Echoing the traditional Soviet
party line, the diplomat called
for a ‘peaceful coexistance”’

between the two superpowers.
Also, Afanasyev, who has been

in the United States since 1976,
said, ‘We don’t believe that
there can be a limited nuclear
war.”

“There is no more important
task at this time than to
preserve peace,’’ he said.

The Soviet Union has “an

abundance” of natural gas,
which Western Europe needed,
noted Afanasyev. Therefore, a
pipeline to channel this natural
gas was constructed, and the
Soviets received some benefits
in the form of technology. ‘‘It
was a mutually beneficial
thing,” said the envoy. ‘‘It had
nothing to do with pure politics.
It was business.”

Afanasyev feels that both the
United States and the Soviet
Union would benefit from har-
monious trade relations rather
than economic sanctions. He
claimed that the USSR is ahead

of the United States in some

areas of space exploration and
nuclear fusion. However, he
said, “The most ~ important
theory of our relations is in the
areas of disarmament and
preventing world war.

Although the United States
has more missiles based on sub-
marines and more bombers
than the Soviet Union, the lat-
ter’s edge in land-based
missiles creates a parity that
Afanasyev said was confirmed
by leaders of both nations in
1979.

Therefore, both nations
should ‘‘accept the parity and
accept the principle of equal
security for both sides. We must
limit or freeze the current
levels of strategic arms and
then go down.”’

Because new arms are expen-
sive and difficult to control, the
ambassador said, ‘‘It is more
important to reach some agree-

ments now to limit the nuclear
arms race.”

‘‘We can answer to any major
weapons produced by the
United States. If the United
States deploys the MX Missiles,
we will deploy our own missiles.
Or if the United States will
deploy the cruise missiles, we
can do the same. But we don’t
think this is the right way to go.
We think we should stop this
and go down,” Afanasyev said.

“The United States and the
Soviet Union have their own

problems,” he added. ‘‘We fee)
that it would be only beneficial
to concentrate on these pro-
blems instead of the arms
race.”

On other topics, Afanasyev
said there was ‘‘no big change”
between the policies of Yuri An-
dropov and those of his

predecessor, Leonid Brezhnev.

“There is more continuity in the
foreign policy of the Soviet

Union than the United States,”’
according to the diplomat. He
indicated that Soviet negotia-
tors often have difficulties
because they are forced to deal

with: a. new American ad-

ministration every four years.
Expressing the Soviet posi-

tion on Afghanistan, Afanasyev

claimed that the Soviet pre-
sence in the war-torn country
was to eliminate the foreign
threat to the revolutionary
government. ‘‘There should be
no foreign interference in the in-
ternal affairs of Afghanistan,”’
he said.

On the recent events in
Poland, the Soviet diplomat
said, ‘“‘The people in Poland
want to enjoy a better economic
life — they are tired of Solidari-
ty. They want to lead a more
normal life.”’
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983

 

Editorial

Martin Luther King once banned at W&L

By BILL ROBERTS
Editor-in-Chief

The birthday of the Rev. Mar-
tin Luther King Jr. passed
quietly on the Washington and
Lee campus Saturday.

King was murdered in Mem-
phis 15 years ago. Blacks in this
country remember him as the

Tuesday in the Pit?

Dear Editor:

The question has arisen con-
cerning the scheduling of bands
by the SAB and UCC on week-
nights instead of weekends. Mr.
Whitehead in a previous letter
to the Phi suggests that
Tuesdays in the Cockpit be
moved to a time of the weeh
where a smaller number of con-
flicts exist, preferably on Fri-
day. Several reasons exist for
not already undertaking such a
move.

When booking entertainment
one quickly learns that bands
demand and usually receive
higher prices for weekend
engagements (Friday and
Saturday nights). By featuring
entertainment on a weeknight a
savings of $300 to $500 is realiz-
ed per engagement on band
prices. This allows the UCC to
bring in more entertainment
with the student body funds
given to the committee by the
student government. If
‘“‘Tuesdays’’ is moved to the
weekend, the number of bands
booked would have to be curtail-
ed somewhat, bringing less
entertainment to the campus
for the same amount of money.

Another reason for placing
bands in the Cockpit on week-
nights concerns their availabili-
ty. If we ran our program on the
weekend, the UCC would be
competing against many other
groups for entertainment. Local
bars, fraternities, surrounding
girls’ schools and other colleges
in the area are also looking for
bands on Friday nights. Not on-
ly would we be paying a higher

greatest civil rights activist
that ever lived, a legendary
man whose dreams of racial
equality still inspire the minds
of free men.

There was a time 21 years
ago, when King’s revolutionary
ideas were the source of ex-
treme controversy on this cam-
pus. In Oct. 1961, the Washing-

price, but the choices of enter-
tainment would be curtailed
due to greater demand brought
on by these groups on week-
ends. Weeknights bring more
flexibility in band choice, allow-
ing the selection of higher quali-
ty bands.

The present arrangement in
the Cockpit was launched last
year with the consideration of
avoiding conflicts. Mr. White-
head claims that Friday would
be a more ideal day in order to
accomplish this goal. However,
an equally strong case can be
made for continuing the pro-
gram in its present form. Many
independents view ‘‘Tuesdays”’
as a way to break up the week,
for they do not participate in
Wednesday night parties. Girls’
schools schedule the majority of
their activities on weekends
causing further conflict with
moving the program. Also, by
having bands appear on
weeknights, students at W&L
are given an additional night to
interact with girls from the sur-
rounding schools, an aspect
crucial to an all male environ-
ment.

“Tuesdays” is not trying to
compete with the academics at
W&L but attempts to offer an
additional alternative for the
students to enjoy. The UCC
under Brett Kass has put
together a good schedule for the
winter and the present arrange-
ment will continue. We hope to
see you in the Cockpit during
the upcoming winter months.

Lanier Edge
Chairman SAR

Play Auditions

Open auditions will be held
for ‘‘Tea and Sympathy,”’ the
winter production of the Wash-
ington and Lee University
Theatre, at 7 p.m. on Thursday
and Friday, January 20 and 21.

The auditions will be held in
the Troubadour Theatre at the

corner of Main and Henry
Streets in Lexington.

The play will be directed by
Paula Langdon, instructor of

drama at Washington and Lee,
and is scheduled for March 21
through 26.

 

Carole Chappell’s office to fill
out a senior information sheet
for the Calyx.

 

aes Notes vee

SENIORS: Please drop by

NEXT WEEK’S-~ EC
MEETING WILL BEGIN AT

7:30 ON MONDAY INSTEAD

OF 6:30.

 

 

ton and Lee Board of Trustees
denied a request by a student
organization for permission to
invite King to speak here.

On Oct. 20, the Ring-tum Phi
reported the Board’s action on
the front page. ‘Washington
and Lee’s Board of Trustees has
refused to grant the University
Christian Association permis-
sion to invite the Reverand Doc-
tor Martin Luther King Jr. to
this campus,” wrote Tom
Lybass, a Phi staff reporter.

‘‘No reason was given by the
Board for declining the UCA re-
quest. :

‘Earlier this month, the stu-
dent Executive Committee of
the UCA voted, subject to the
approval of the Faculty Com-
mittee on Christian Work, to in-
vite the controversial Negro
minister to lead a UCA seminar
on ‘Christian Ethics and Non-
Violent Protest in Race Rela-
tions.’

“The faculty committee
discussed the issue last week

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

The Executive Committee
voted Monday night to prohibit
the sale of Fancy Dress related
items in the Student Center, the
Dining Hall, and around the
Supply Store, except by Student
Activities Board represen-
tatives.

Vice president Morgan Grif-
fith commented that ‘‘the mo-
tion doesn’t prevent someone
from getting out and hustling.”
The SAB wants money made on
FD to go back to the students
rather than into someone’s
pocket, according to SAB chair-
man Lanier Edge.

Critic
‘The Mink’

Dear Editor:

“The Mink’? was a master-
piece of retrograde name-
calling. Even its author lacked
the conviction to have his name
printed! I cannot fathom that
his peers view the intracampus
conflict as one resulting from
the presence of women in the
law school. Your publication of
this anonymous manifesto only
escalates any conflict and
serves no purpose in lessening
the gulf between the hill and
Lewis Hall.

You should discuss profes-
sionalism and responsibility in
editorial policy with your facul-
ty advisor. Then print an
apology.

Mary Zanolli, 1L
P.S. You also might: want to
look up
“Libel.”

the definition of.

and voted to recommend to
President Cole and the Board of
Trustees that the student group
be allowed to invite Dr. King to

lead the seminar,’’ Lybass
reported.
The Trustees of this universi-

ty not only prohibited the
students and faculty from in-
viting King to speak, but they
also declared the issue closed.
They would not discuss it and
were unresponsive to powerful
arguments by the students and
faculty for a reversal of the
denial.

In an Oct. 24 editorial, the Phi
editors demonstrated the incon-
sistency of the Trustees’
behavior.

“In refusing the University
Christian Association’s request
to have Dr. Martin Luther King
speak, the Board of Trustees
has violated two fundamental
principles of this school.

“The Washington and Lee
catalogue, in defining the
aspirations of the University,

Senior representative John
Vlahoplus was opposed to the
motion. ‘‘I’d like to make a
stand for free enterprise...If a
guy can make a good T-shirt
and sell it himself...he ought to
be allowed to do it,” Vlahoplus

argued.

Junior representative Scott
Mason said that he would like to
see a moratorium placed on the
sale of non-SAB FD items for
the whole campus. No action
was taken on this suggestion,
and the motion was put to a
vote. The motion passed 9-3,
with Vlahoplus, freshman rep-

states: ‘This University, sub-
ject to no type of political con-
trol whatever, is none the less
dedicated to the democratic
form of social organization; to
the ancient freedoms and par-
ticularly to the liberty of the
mind with its attendant right of
inquiry.’ The catalogue con-
tinues, ‘The other enduring
adherence of this University is
declared in the first by-law of
its official regulations, first in
importance, as well as in time,
which affirms that while sec-
tarian domination of this school
is prohibited, the obligation to
inculcate the Christian ideal is
hereby acknowledged.’

“If the Board had adhered to
the ‘principles’ of the Universi-
ty, Dr. Martin Luther King
would be allowed to appear and
speak on this campus. instead,
the request to have him lead a
seminar sponsored by the UCA
has been denied without
reason.”

(continued on page 4)

FD Merchandise Restricted

resentative Steve Connett, and
senior representative Pete
Baumgaertner opposed.
Contact presented its monthly
report and announced that on
Mar. 17, John Ehrlichman and
Sen. Eugene McCarthy would
debate and that the event would

be covered by Newsweek and.
Playboy in addition to the local
media. Contact is paying $8,000
for the debate.

Ted McQuiston announced
that student identification cards
with photographs are being con-
sidered and that he is compar-
ing prices.

 

Ring-tum Phi

TOGROR GROG ooo ccdrcecvececesencté
Business Manager................0.e0008
Managing Editor ............ccsseseeeees
LOPE 60 canada
MI i 6 oc cess (0a a
Assistant Sports Editor ...................
PN hie 658 os 64 os ccs is
HeeO PROGRFAPNET ow. ccc cc cccersecscens
PROPONENT R clic iistiistiane

Sw ee ee

 

Prema PER Ceo re Tee Bill Roberts
bods et i 04nd00) Vievees beaeebAl Steve Perry
eras drake cies i cee Evans Attwell
Gasiviswhenmtime ane Jim Laurie
Foe 6 0 oes ease tlkect heen ote Lee Nichols
tes 64s (18s (GR i Mike Stachura
Feeiias sc usaacnsl4aasiabes B. Scott Tilley
oP ee ere err erie ere: David Sprunt
Pic etirivsie ee Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

caaee cone piney bbe (o4 CREKORELS Paul Casey
Tih) 0 eek Chee David W. Johnston
esis Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

John Cleghorn, John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,
Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter, Allen Roberts,

Advertising Manager ..................4:
ee a ee

Circulation Manager .............-.0005:
so ee

Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler

svete) ted ehs t4. char keveess Tom O'Brien
PR acts Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Huston, Tim Mulreany, Jim Wood

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum

Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity,
The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983, Page 3

Wilson takes over from Huntley

(continued from page 1)

Washington and Lee stronger
than it was when first we came
toit.”

Wilson, who will be officially
inaugurated in May, moved into
Lexington this weekend. In his
address, he praised the ‘‘Magic
of this lovely community with
its visually stunning university
on the ridge line.”’

Following his speech, Wilson
said that he has ‘“‘set out to meet
this community in the most
systematic way I can.” He said
he will begin by meeting with
seniors in small groups, and
will “have individual meetings
with the faculty in their offices
over the next few months.”

Wilson also hopes to meet
students at tonight’s basketball
game with Roanoke. He went to
an earlier game and said he was
“very pleased by what I saw.
They’re a hustling group.”’

Wilson said he has ‘‘no im-
mediate plans for augmenting
or changing’ the administra-
tive staff. He praised the cur-
rent staff, and he was “gratified
that we have that strength in
place.”

Expressing ‘“‘absolute con-
fidence” in Frank Parsons, the
assistant to the president,

 

Wilson said that he had asked
Parsons to stay on.

The Founders’ Day celebra-
tion marked the birthday of
General Robert E. Lee, who
was president of the school
from Oct. 1865 until his death in
Oct. 1870.

Omicron Delta Kappa was
founded at Washington and Lee
in 1914. Among the initial
members, Rupert N. Latture,
professor of politics, emeritus,
is the only surviving ODK

Latture received

founder.
special recognition from the

society’s national office on
Wednesday.

Dr. David Sprunt, faculty ad-
visor to Washington and Lee‘s
ODK chapter said its purpose is
to recognize ‘leadership in
campus and community life.”

John Vlahoplus, president of
the ODK alpha chapter, said
that holding the induction
ceremony and Founders’ Day
celebration simultaneously was

  

Washington and Lee University President John D. Wilson made it official Monday morning when he
signed the oath of office as James W. Whitehead, secretary of the board of trustees at W&L, watched.
Wilson signed his name to the journal which dates back to 1897 and includes the signatures of all the
university’s presidents and trustees who have taken office since that time. Ironically, the first W&L
president to sign the journal that is currently being used was also a Wilson — William L. Wilson, who
succeeded Gen. Robert E. Lee’s son, George Washington Custis Lee, and was president from 1897 to

1900. (Hinely photo)

Parsons

(continued from page 1)

tual election was held, making
the election a mere technicali-

Afterward, the transition in-
volved frequent trips by Wilson
to W&L from Blacksburg,
where he served as provost at
the Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute since 1975, to meet with
university faculty members
and administrators on the many
facets of his new job.

“The size and character of
the schools are very different,”
said Parsons in comparing Vir-
ginia Tech with W&L. ‘‘He has
to learn how W&L works. A
private institution is vastly dif-
ferent from a public institu-
tion.”’

Parsons said that - Wilson,

widely regarded both as a
scholar and an administrator,
brings a fresh and healthy view-
point to his job that ‘will iden-
tify areas that need attention’
in the university, and help in
seeing new problems.

‘‘His experience is his biggest
asset,’”’ said Parsons, citing as
one of the goals of the transi-
tion Wilson’s finding ways as an
administrator to bring the
faculty and students together
‘tin the most beneficial way
possible.”’

Wilson also put renovation of
the second floor of Washington
Hall into the works during the
last few months, specifically
focusing on the addition of a
conference room and the reno-
vation of the president’s office.
Despite the flourish of construc-
tion and renovation of the W&L

campus during the Huntley ad-
ministration, Washington Hall
was left untouched.

‘‘Huntley took care of
everybody except himself,”
Parsons added, referring to
Huntley’s office and the rest of
the second floor.

Parsons said the renovation is
tentatively slated to begin this
summer,

The transition proved especi-
ally nostalgic, according to Par-
sons, because leaving with
Huntley is his secretary, Alber-
tina Ravenhorst, who first
came to W&L in 1943 and has
served as secretary for fou
W&L presidents. Though of-
ficially retired, she reportedly
will still work with Huntley in
his position at the W&L Law
School.

the Republic of Singapore;

 

' “a statement to the student

body and community.”

“The ideals of Washington
and Lee and ODK are much the
same,” Vlahoplus said. ‘The
commitments exemplified by
General Lee and President
Washington are recognized and
cultivated by ODK.”’

Wilson and Law School Dean
Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. were in-
ducted into ODK, as were three
of the university’s alumni;
Earle T. Andrews (’25),
Richard D. Haynes (Law ’58),
and Josiah P. Rowe III (’48).

The following Washington
and Lee students were also in-
ducted at the convocation:
Gaines H. Cleveland, third-year
law student from Gulfport,
Miss.; Deborah H. Combs,
third-year law student from
Princeton, W.Va.; Pamela L.
Ryan, third-year law student
from Groton, N.Y.

Henry Baey, a senior busi-
ness administration major from

Peter A. Baumgaertner, a
senior history major from
Syosset, N.Y.; C. Dewitt
Caruthers, a senior majoring in
European history and French
from Shreveport, La.; Steve D.
Corbeille, a senior history ma-
jor from Haymarket, Va.

D. Mason Ellerbe, a senior
economics major from Latta,
S.C.; Frank L. Eppes, a senior
politics major from Greenville,
S.C.; Vincent J. Fechtel III, a
senior accounting major from

Leesburg, Fla.; Stephen P.
Geary, a senior interdepart-
mental major from New

Orleans; Daniel S. Jones Jr., a
senior economics major from
Clinton, N.C.

Michael H. Reap, a senior
majoring in French and Euro-
pean history from White Plains,
N.Y.; David P. Ridlon, a senior
journalism major from West
Hartford, Conn.; Bennett L.
Ross, a senior business ad-
ministration major from Hunt-
ington, W.Va.; Christopher D.
Schram, a senior majoring in
business administration and
French from Peru, Ind.

Christopher S. Stokes, a
senior mathematics major
from Yorktown Heights, N.Y.;
H. Bowen Woodruff, a senior
English major from Anniston,
Ala.; Anthony J. Zaccagnini, a
senior politics major from
Ellicott City, Md.

Christopher J. Cartmill, a
junior East Asian studies major
from Lincoln, Neb.; Joseph E.
Mamo, a junior accounting ma-
jor from Rocky Mount, N.C.;
Alan E. McQuiston Jr., a junior
history major from Briarcliff
Manor, N.Y.

Jack L. O’Brien, a junior
English major from Boca
Raton, Fla.; G. Leighton
Stradtman, a junior English
major from Columbia, S.C.;
and Timothy A. Valliere, a
junior history major from Un-
casville, Conn.

Two eras ended at Washington and Lee University Monday.
Robert E.R. Huntley, left, president of W&L for 15 years, left of-
fice. And so did Albertina Ravenhorst, who is retiring after spend-
ing 30 years as secretary to W&L’s presidents. (Hinely photo)

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983

 

 

 

Weekdays

Morning Magazine

6:45-9a.m.
AM on FM

9 a.m. - noon
Meridian (News)

Noon-12:30 p.m.
Public Affairs

12:30 p.m.-1 p.m.
Jazz Is A 4-Letter Word

1p.m.-3p.m.
Afternoon Rock

3 p.m. -5:30 p.m.
Evening Edition

5:30 p.m. -6 p.m.
Classical Showcase

6p.m.-9p.m.
Home Edition

9 p.m. - 9:10 p.m.
Skyline

9:10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.
Third Ear

11:30 p.m. -2a.m.

Saturday
Morning Magazine
9:30 p.m. - noon.

WLUR schedule

Opera-Live From The Met
2 p.m. -5:30 p.m.
Sports Scoreboard
5:30 p.m. -6 p.m.
Folk
6 p.m. -8p.m.
Anti-Headache Machine
8 p.m. - midnight
Third Ear
midnight -2a.m.

Sunday

Morning Magazine

9:30 a.m. - noon
Two on the Aisle

noon- 2 p.m.
Jazz Is A 4-Letter Word

2p.m.-4p.m.
Horizons

4p.m.-6p.m.
Showcase

6 p.m. -9p.m.
Oldies

9 p.m. - midnight
Third Ear

midnight - 2 a.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

uccdays

 

IN

The Cockpit
W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

QUOD
OUTS

 

January 25

 

 

"It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 

 

 

SS ae ee ee ee ee
a.

 

 

SS ee ee

 

 

‘CHARLENE, THE FEDERAL TEENAGE CONTRACEPTIVE POLICE
CONTROL — NOT THAT AWFUL

(continued from page 1)

The logic of the editorial was
undeniable. The Trustees had
acted arbitrarily with absolute-
ly no regard for the basic tenets
of this University. They had
been entrusted with fostering
the liberal education at
Washington and Lee and they
flagrantly violated that trust.

On Oct. 27, the Phi reported,
“Student opinion at Washington
and Lee solidified against the
action of the University Board
of Trustees during the past
week as an atmosphere of in-
dignation spread and
strengthened.

“A Ring-tum Phi poll in-
dicated that the student body
resented the Board’s decision to
withhold approval from Martin
Luther King as a campus
speaker with nearly complete
unanimity.

“‘Of students questioned, only
one was able to agree with the
Board’s decree; but the student
was not reconciled to the
Board’s failure to explain its
decision to the University.

“General feeling seemed to
run most strongly over the fact
that the decision was apparent-
ly an arbitrary one and was
handed down to the school
without justification.’’

One student was quoted in the
article as saying, ‘‘They have
no reason as far as I can see in
banning Martin Luther King.
There is no reason why the man
shouldn’t speak here, absolute-
ly none.”’

“I myself am a_ segrega-
tionist, but I see no reason why
the University shouldn’t hear
his argument,’ the student
said.

DERO-PROVERA

Washington and Lee was an
all-white school in 1961 when
this controversy arose. In those
days the administration had
some control over the activities
of students. The Assistant Dean
of Students was able to prohibit
all fraternities and_ social
organizations from having the
“Hot Nuts’ combo perform
anywhere, on or off campus.

But the conflict over King was
not between the faculty and the
students, or the administration
and the students.

The conflict was between the
entire school and a small group
of Trustees.

On Nov. 6, the faculty met for
more than two hours and ap-
proved a resolution concerning
King and the Trustees.

“The faculty action on Martin
Luther King was their first to be
taken since the proposal to in-
vite King to the campus for a
seminar in religion was re-
jected by the Board of Trus-
tees,’’ the Phi reported on Nov.
7.

“This decision, in the opinion
of the faculty, seriously limits
the freedom of inquiry, that
should prevail in an institution
of higher learning, and denies to
the students the opportunity to
learn for themselves, even upon
issues of controversy,” the
faculty statement said.

The faculty resolution was
mailed to each of the Trustees.
By that time however, the stu-
dent Executive Committee had
already sent letters to the
Trustees requesting a reversal
of the ban on King’s ap-
pearance. The EC letter said,
“Although concerned with im-
mediate problem of refusing to
allow the Rev. King to be in-

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

BUY EARLY — SAVE!

Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.
Make Plans For February Break
TO, & Ask For Good Deals

About Nassau!

CALL
463-7174

 

SAY YOU'VE BEEN INQUIRING ABOUT BETH
"i HOPE!

   

vited to speak, we feel that the
issues presented here have a
broader implication.

“Such restrictions upon
academic freedom are both
damaging to the general repu-
tation of the University and
more defintely to the morale of
the students in attendence.”’

The EC letter applied the
same argument as the Phi
editorial based on principles of
the University stated in the
catalogue.

The Trustees remained in-
transigent in the face of the
school’s reaction. Meanwhile
the scandal made _ news
throughout the state of Virginia.
Editorials in three Virginia
newspapers lauded the facul-
ty’s stance.

The Roanoke Times wrote on
Nov. 23, ‘‘The teachers deserve
applause for their boldness and
loyalty to one of the deepest
obligations of their professions;
defense of the right to know. In
going on the record in this
fashion they have redeemed the
university from an unfortunate
impression created by the
board.” .

Washington and Lee
celebrated Founders’ Day
Wednesday with great pomp
and ceremony. General Robert
E. Lee’s birthday always brings
forth profound statements of
the great traditions of this
university.

There can be no doubt that the
educational opportunity offered
at Washington and Lee is of the
highest calibre, but when we
proclaim this to ourselves, we
should remember that tradition
has been discarded in the past.

General Lee was the an-
tithesis of Dr. King. Freedom of
intellectual inquiry and the in-
dependence of the mind are
fragile rights which will always
need protection. To that end, we
should remember Martin
Luther King and honor the
ideals for which he fought.

 

Hamric & Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

§ Hand Engraving & Class Rings

 

11 W. Nelson 463-2022

{

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983, Page 5

 

 

Void Biscuits and the

By Allen Roberts
Phi Staff Writer

The air was electrified with
expectation in Droid’s of Lex-
ington that night. Yes, he was
already in town. The champ’s
limo had been sighted speeding
past Hop-In, coated with dust
accumulated on his whirlwind
tour of the East Coast. His
‘agents had managed to sched-
ule a stop in Big Lex, his
hometown, between major ap-
pearances in Times Square,
Georgetown, Virginia Beach,
Myrtle Beach.

All the local whiz-kids were
clustered about the screens,
their excited whispers hushed
by the mocking voices of the
machines. He’s here, he’s here!

shrieked the girl bearing Big
Quarters to a drunken trio at
the end-table. The-champ seem-
ed to glide through the front
door, his silk robe glistening in
the lamplight. The fawning
crowd nervously stumbled back

as he approached the game °

room. His trainer hurriedly
massaged his arms; gently
loosened the joints of his legen-
dary fingers and carefully
sprayed silicone on his elbows
and fingertips. ‘Ya ready,
Ace?” asked the trainer. ‘‘Jake,
I’m always ready,” the champ
replied, doffing his infra-red
goggles.

The ace approached Ms. Pac-
Man first, chanting slowly,
“Ener, Ener, energize me...no,
no, no, never eat me Blinky,
Pinky, Inky and Sue...I’m gon-

=

 

na bite you, swallow you and
spit you out...ener, ener,
energize me.’’ He slowly lifted a
gold quarter from the velvet-
lined traveling case, inserted it
and...and then the slaughter
began. It was horrible and it
was beautiful. His hand was
ungodly quick on the stick,
and one by one they fell —
—cherry, strawberry, orange,
pretzel, apple, pear, banana
and the hapless, helpless baby.
The anxious fans peered over
his limber shoulders in awe, as
the score multiplied in a flurry
of digits.

An hour passed, and then
another, as Jake gently wiped
the champ’s furrowed, sweaty
brow. “C’mon Ace, let up.
You’ve already turned it over
six times,”’ the trainer pleaded.

 

 

The champ conceded, and of-
fered his last twelve turns to an
eager fan.

He turned to Defender. Dis-
daining the smart bomb, Ace
warped through innumerable
quadrants as mutant after mu-
tant evaporated under his stac-
cato fire. All night the champ’s
hands graced the buttons at
Droid’s and the games suffered
ignominious defeat. Zaxxon,
Qixand Phoenix; Robotron,
Donkey Kong and Dig Dug
—none could withstand his
relentless assault. The Gravitar
unit exploded as his 20th ship
entered deep space. Centipede
was reduced to caterpillar
status, and saucers shied away
from the Asteroids screen.
Even Tempest was lulled to a

 

Ace

breeze by his fearsome mastery
of the super zapper.

Yes, Ace was-king that night
in his old haunt. As he made his
way out of the game room; un-
daunted by the smoke and
debris, a child protege tugged
at his glowing sleeve. The boy
looked up with adoring eyes,
and offered a pair of sausage
biscuits. ‘‘Hey, thanks kid,” the
champ replied, accepting his
tithe.

As Ace stepped into the cold
mountain dawn, he turned back
to face the boy, who was staring
into the flashing ‘‘Insert Coin’’
message on the Pac-Man
screen. ‘‘Hey, Kid!’’ he called.
The champion smiled faintly
and flipped a golden quarter
toward his disciple.

MW NKS eytoppStH| ° ‘Vin eee
on \ \_THE Fodd) ¢

 

  
        
  
 

   

   

| ONLY BROUGH

hn

 

 

'D to
WALD ie
f a, Uy, p arr EF)
fy fy Yih nA ia Me a BG ;

U

 

 

Article Published

Emory Kimbrough Jr., pro-
fessor of sociology at Wash-
ington and Lee University, is
the author of an article in the
November 1982 issue of the
Virginia Social Science Journal.

Kimbrough’s article is entitl-

ed ‘‘Medieval and Modern New
Town Development: A Com- be considered ‘new towns” ete dad Dates
parative View’’ and examines under Strict adherence to the
the so-called ‘‘new town’ definition. WASHINGTON AMD ut LOST WORLD DIG DUG
schemes that developed in ASTEROIDS SUPER PAC MAN
medieval England and in con- A — : en = ¢ ELIMINATOR CAVEMAN
mporary Britain. ege with a doctorate from the
saaaae of ‘“‘new town” University of North Carolina, CATACOMB a . GALAGA
applies tocommunities that are | Kimbrough joined the W&L UNAR RESCUE

developed initially under a com-

prehensive plan and are design-

ed to be self-contained,
autonomous units with balanc-
ed communities encompassing
a wide spectrum of persons.
According to Kimbrough, on-
ly a small number of American
communities would qualify to

faculty in 1962.

   
     

The Cockpit

4
sanccalh

Visit The
COCKPIT GAME ROOM

13 Exciting Games

— MORE NEW GAMES ON THE WAY —

RED FRONT r x SPECIAL x
{
|

GROCERY

Michelob & Michelob

OE OEE EE. AE EE I. PE PE.

2
ann. oo

OR

7
|
Redeem this coupon for a FREE game of your choice in
the gameroom SEE ATTENDANT FOR DETAILS |

i

él

 

Good Thru February 11
$2.49 ,

$1.89
$3.99 Lb.
$2.99 Lb.

Light—6/12 oz. cans

Old Milwaukee—6/12 0z. bottles
Fresh Rib-eye Steaks

Pork Tenderloin

SE BES

se,
a

Dd»;

OO OE LOE LLB IL GDEELDE LGD E IL DEL GE LBE SDE SDE DE SBE DEL DESDE GEL LGE DBE IDE IDES

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983

 

ee a

  

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity has announced the election
of three new members to its
board of trustees.

The new members, all alumni
of the university, are:

— Joseph S. Keelty of
Baltimore, Md., president of
James Keelty & Co., Inc., a
residential building and land
development firm in the
Baltimore area;

— Guy T. Steuart II of Chevy
Chase, Md., president of
Steuart Investment Company in
Washington, D.C., and Steuart
Ford in Lanham, Md. ;

— Frank G. Young of Fort
Worth, Tex., vice president of
Marshall R. Young Oil Co. in
Fort Worth.

All will serve six-year terms
on the board. Their elections
are effective January 1, 1983.

In addition, the board has
elected Jonathan Westervelt

X-mas

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi Staff Writer

Police officials are still in-
vestigating two thefts involving
Washington and Lee students
that took place over Christmas
vacation.

A larceny at the home of Mar-
ty Thomas and Phil Hrabar on
Rt. 5, is presently under in-
vestigation by Captain Fred
Spence of the Rockbridge Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Department.

The theft, which was reported
on Jan. 5, totalled about $2,000
in stolen property according to
officials at the Sheriff's depart-
ment. The articles stolen were
clothes, turntables, televisions

 

GUY T. STEUARTII

Warner of Tuscaloosa, Ala.,
chairman and president of Gulf
States Paper Co., to a new six-
year term. Warner had pre-
viously served two six-year
terms on the board.

Two other trustees, S L
Kopald of Memphis, Tenn., and
Calvert Thomas of Hartford,
Conn., were reelected to six-
year terms. Kopald is vice
president of Witco Chemical
Corporation and_ general
manager of Humko Chemical in
Memphis. Thomas owns and
operates Thomas Cadillac, Inc.,
in Hartford.

Three trustees were elected
to emeritus status effective
Jandary 1. They are Thomas D.
Anderson, an attorney with the
Houston, Tex., law firm of
Anderson Brown Orn & Jones;
Thomas C. Frost, chairman of
the board of Cullen/Frost
Bankers, Inc. and Frost Na-

thefts

and stereo speakers, officials
said.

Entrance was gained into the
house through a back door
which was pried open.

A theft at the Delta Tau Delfa
fraternity is also still under in-
vestigation by Officer David
Rhodenizer of the Lexington
Police Department, according
to authorities there.

The theft at the fraternity was
reported on Dec. 21; thieves
broke and entered through a
back door of the house and stole
items out of ~the members
rooms. The exact worth of the
items stolen is still undetermin-
ed, Lexington Police authorities
said, because all of the items
have not yet been reported.

 

 

 

 

JOSEPH S. KEELTY
tional Bank of San Antonio,
Tex.; and, Isadore M. Scott,
chairman of the board of
TOSCO Corp. in Philadelphia.
Keelty is a Baltimore native

‘who attended Washington and

Lee from 1940 through 1942 and
received his B.A. degree in 1943
from Loyola College in
Baltimore.

After serving three years as
an officer in the U.S. Navy,
Keelty joined the family-owned
James Keelty & Co., Inc., in
1946.

He is currently a member of
the board of trustees of Loyola
College and is a member of the
board of directors of Equitable
Bancorporation. He previously
served as a trustee of Maryland
Institute College of Art and was
chairman of the board of the
McDonogh School. He has also
served as a director of the Na-
tional Association of Home

Glee Club to sing with

The Washington and Lee
Glee Club will be joined by the
Lexington High School Choir

for the annual joint choral
concert on Tuesday, January

25, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The concert is part of a
month-long series of events
designed to celebrate the
renovation of duPont Hall, the
fine arts building at Washington
and Lee.

Another event in that celebra-
tion, a student art show and
reception, will be held on Thurs-
day, January 20, at 7 p.m. inthe
duPont Art Studio.

Three Trustees elected

4

Builders and of the Home
Builders Association of
Maryland.

Steudrt earned his bachelor’s
degree from Washington and
Lee in 1953. A_ native of
Washington, D.C., he served for
three years in the U.S. Coast
Guard.

Extremely active in civic af-
fairs, Steuart has served as
president of the Kenwood
Citizens Association and as a
trustee of Sibley Hospital, the
National Cathedral School, and
Norwood School. He is a mem-
ber of the Kiwanis Club of
Washington.

Steuart has also been actively
involved in Washington and Lee
alumni affairs and has served
as chairman of the R.E. Lee

Associates, an organization
comprising the university’s
most generous supporters.

 

ig

\
.

FRANK G. YOUNG

Young received two degrees
from ‘Washington and Lee,
earning a B.S. in Commerce
from W&L in 1966 and then
receiving the B.A. in geology in
1967. He earned the law degree
from. the University of Texas
Law School in 1969 and the
master’s degree in tax law from
Southern Methodist University
Law School in 1970.

A native of Fort Worth,
Young was associated with the
Fort Worth law firm of Cantey,
Hanger, Gooch, Munn and Col-
lins from 1970 to 1972 before
joining the Marshall R. Young
Oil Co. in 1972.

He is a trustee, secretary and
vice president of the Fort Worth
Museum of Science and His-
tory.

Washington and Lee current-
ly has 25 members on its board
of trustees.

 

Lex High Choir

Both the concert and the art
show are open to the public at
no charge.

The Lexington High School
Choir will open the joint choral
concert by presenting ‘Blow,
blow Thou winter wind” by
John Rutter, ‘Kyrie, from
Mass XI’’ arranged by Paul
Christiansen, and “Holy, holy,
holy”’ by Ed Lojeski.

The Washington and Lee Glee
Club will then present ‘Ave
Maria”’ by Tommaso Ludovico
da Vittoria, ‘‘Salvation
belongeth to our God’’ by Paul
Tschansnokov, and ‘Lord,

Make me an instrument of Thy
Peacc”’ by Rutter.

The LHS Choir and W&L Glee
Club will then join to present
Gabriel Faure’s “Requiem,”
featuring solos by soprano Ann
Johnson of Lexington and
baritones Eric Heinsohn and
Nick Leitch. Theresa Zybko is
the accompanist for the LHS
Choir, and W&L’s Warren Tay-
lor will be the organist.

Gordon P. Spice, associate
professor of music at Washing-
ton and Lee, conducts the W&L
Glee Club while Charles Torian
is the conductor of the Lex-
ington High School Choir.
Oldtime radio on WLUR

‘“‘Who knows what evil lurks
in the hearts of men?”’

Chuck Diffenderffer knows.
Well, maybe Diffenderffer
doesn’t know about the evil in
men’s hearts. But he does know
all about ‘‘The Shadow,”’
(a.k.a., Lamont Cranston, who
made that question famous),
not to mention “The Green
Hornet,’’ ‘‘The Great
Gildersleeve,”’ ‘“‘Fibber McGee
and Molly,” and ‘“‘The Bicker-
sons,’’ toname just a few.

In case you haven’t guessed,
Diffenderffer is an aficionado of
oldtime radio. Collecting re-
cordings of old radio: programs
may not seem such an unusual
hobby until you consider that
Diffenderffer, a Washington
and Lee University freshman
from Baldwin, Md., was not
even born when ‘‘The Shadow”’
solved his last mystery.

But Diffenderffer has been
making up for lost time. During

the past. two years, he has col- -

lected 100 hours of oldtime radio
programs and done a good bit of
research into his new hobby.

And each Sunday night from 9
p.m. to 9:30 p.m., he shares his
interest and his expertise over
WLUR-FM_ 91.5, Washington
and Lee’s campus radio station.

‘“‘We had obtained a good col-
lection of old radio shows for the
station. But until Chuck came,
no one had the interest or the
knowledge to play them on the
air,’’ explained Robert J.
deMaria, assistant professor of
journalism and_ general
manager of WLUR.

Diffenderffer was happy to
oblige and has made good use of
the station’s collection.

“TI had always heard my
grandfather talk about old radio
programs and how the radio
forced you to use your imagina-
tion,’’ Diffenderffer said. ‘‘One
night I happened to pick up
‘CBS Mystery Theatre’ on the
car radio. I became engrossed
in the story and discovered that
my grandfather was right.”

Diffenderffer’s personal col-
lection includes many old stand-
bys—episodes of ‘‘The Shadow”

&
cod

searetne
—
P ?
ee
é Pinta
oe :
mm aa
ed
ed
Ce oad

a.
Se
ered

i

SEES
a aceal
cd
eae
| eee
4

dl

i
i

PS

tJ ee
¥
} TE
* ee by
.

a
&

ry | ‘ i

 

Chuck Diffenderffer selects programs as he takes Lexington
back 40 years with his weekly oldtime radio show on WLUR-FM.

(News Office photo)

and “The Green Hornet’’ and
“Gunsmoke” along with such
single programs as the classic
“‘War of the Worlds.’’ One of his
most prized possessions is a
tape of the final rehearsal of a
“Mercury Theatre’ episode.

For his weekly WLUR pro-
gram, Diffenderffer does con-
siderable background research
which he uses to introduce the
episode.

“TI have done quite a lot of
reading into the history of radio
drama. And I’ve also learned a
great deal simply by talking
with my grandparents about
it,’ says Diffenderffer, who
plans to major in_ political
science at W&L.

“Ever since I began to be in-
terested in oldtime radio, I have
found television very, very
boring—even though I still
watch TV. The difference is that
listening to radio is more like

studying: you can’t let your at-
tention wander at all. You real-
ly have to listen. I consider
listening to a radio program as
taking my imagination for a
walk.”

Diffenderffer confesses that
his fellow students have a dif-
ficult time understanding his in-
terest in the old radio shows.

“I would say that the collec-

tion of records I have in my
dorm room is rather different

from the collection you would
find in most college dorm
rooms,” he added.

The oldtime radio program is
part of a Sunday schedule on
WLUR that includes a two-hour
show of Christian rock from
7:30 to 9:30 a.m., ‘“‘Two on the
Aisle,’’ a broadway and
showtune program from noon to
2p.m., and an oldies but goodies
program from 9:30 p.m. to mid-

night.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983, Page 7

Opinion

ERA revived

 

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer
House Resolution - Judicial-1
(HRJ-1.)

There’s something _ intrin-
sically ominous about the sound
of that, and that’s odd, consider-
ing it’s only the. Equal Rights
Amendment resurrected from
last year’s disappointing
defeat.

What strikes me the most
about HRJ-1, however, is more
than its placement as_ the
number-one piece of legislation
for House consideration. In an
age when unemployment rivals
the heights of joblessness dur-
ing the Great Depression,
where food, clothing and hous-
ing no longer are common com-
modities, where nuclear arms
and nuclear catastrophe preoc-
cupy the minds of even the
jobless, we place as our highest
priority for Congress as 23 word
phrase ‘guaranteeing equali-
ty” on account of sex.

The emphasis on rights in an
age of despair seems out of
place. When the amendment
was first introduced in 1972 and
passed Congress overwhelm-
ingly, American society then
had less pressing demands than
it does today. Equality and
women’s rights and Watergate
were the events of the day, not
Social Security bankruptcy,
small business failure, and
social program budget cuts.
The time was right, the votes
were there, and Congress acted.
But America was not yet ready
for the change.

Today, the time is not right
once more. The votes may be
there, but so is Phyllis Schlafly.
Congress will act and _ un-
doubtedly pass HRJ-1, but it
will not be its number one
priority. And there is hwere the
ERA will fail once more. The
ERA is too serious a step to be
taken so lightly. Granted,
Eleanor Smeal may reappear,
Betty Ford will hit the circuit,

and legislatures will be lobbied.
But the preoccupation of legis-
latures will be the economy,
and not the ERA.

In the rush to get the economy
started again, people eating
again, and a new lead story for
the evening news, I fear an
economically-weakened society
may be duped into taking a
placebo that it will discover to
be upsetting. In a time of agony
and distress, men act out of
desperation, out of a will to sur-
vive. We have not reached the
stage where we need embrace
the ERA out of desperation.

I’m not denying htexE the
ERA could help our society
(and like any constitutional
amendment taken too. far
—Remember Prohibition? Most
people don’t. It could hurt). But
do we dare allow ourselves to be
tempted in such trying times
with such an emotional issue? I
fear that we may falsely label
the ERA an economic egali-
tarian gain and deceive
ourselves.

Let’s not fool ourselves. The
ERA is for equality, not the
economy. Labeling it any other
way is a gross misinterpreta-
tion. Ardent feminists, to show
an act of patriotism, might
benefit most in the long run by
bowing gracefully (no offense! )
out of the ERA race now, focus-
ing their efforts on the role of
women in economic recovery.
Society, with its ‘‘recent-
history’’ oriented memory,
might easily forget the Schlatiy
era and its half-truths when
feminists, pointing to their con-
tributions toward reestab-
lishing the economy, later seek
votes, when men and women
can act reasonably and ra-
tionally without the fear of next
month’s Social Security or next
week’s unemployment checks
bouncing, ERA can pass.

Then, and perhaps only then,
would the ERA really win and
work.

 

Cente

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

By the time Washington and
Lee students return to campus
next fall, Central Telephone will
have completed a $3.5 million
project that will improve and
expand service for its Rock-
bridge County customers.
William Camden, Centel’s Lex-
ington customer services
manager, said the entire under-
taking is expected to be com-
pleted by July 17.

The project includes the in-
stallation of a computerized
call-switching system in Lex-
ington, the addition of new

to improve service

transmission facilities between
Lexington and Buena Vista, and
the linking of Lexington with
Roanoke by a long distance
cable system which uses laser
light to transmit calls.

Camden said installation of
the switching mechanism
began Jan. 4 at the Lexington
office, where the company is
spending $80,000 to upgrade

electrical and grounding
systems.

According to Camden, this
part of the project is

“proceeding satisfactorily.”’
Camden pointed out that the
switching system will handle
calls quietly.

‘“‘When the caller is through
dialing, there won’t be any

switching noises in the
background like we’re used to,”’
he said.

New transmission systems

‘will also be added between

Centel’s Lexington and Buena
Vista offices, at a cost of about
$82,000. Camden said they will
improve transmission quality
on calls between the two areas.
The final improvement will
be provided by a new 16-mile
lightwave cable system that
will carry calls between
Roanoke and Lexington. The
system is being built in conjuc-
tion with the Chesapeake and

Potomac Telephone Company,
which is installing about 34
miles of cable between Roanoke
and Centel’s Rockbridge Coun-
ty exchange boundary.

Concerning the cost of the en-
tire project to Centel custom-
ers, Camden said, ‘‘Bills even-
tually will be going up, but not
directly because of these im-
provements.

The new switching system
will also make it possible for all
Centel customers, including
W&L students, to buy several
features:

¢ Call waiting, which lets a

person already on the phone
know when somebody is trying
to call.

¢ Call forwarding, which
allows you to automatically
transfer your incoming calls to
other telephones when you're
away from your residence.

e Three-way calling, which
allows an extra person to be
part of a conversation.

¢ Speed calling, which allows

.you to reach up to 30 local or

long distance numbers by dial-
ing only one or two numbers.

Camden said he does not
know at the present time what
the monthly charges for these
four features will be,
wee ae

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983

Report From Rikkyo

 

Exchange Student Adjusts to New Surroundings

(Editor’s Note: the following ar-
ticle is reprinted from the Rikkyo
University newspaper in Japan. It
is an interview with Washington
and Lee exchange student Robert
Crawford.)

Rikkyo University now has 17
exchange students from
abroad. What do they think of
Rikkyo University and Rikkyo
students, and of Japan? We in-
terviewed one student from
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty, Mr. Robert Crawford.

He is a senior majoring in
Japanese and Chinese History.
He is now living in Urawa City.

He is very interested in Japan
and Japanese history because
he thinks Japan is the only
country in the world that has
been changed from a poor coun-
try into a rich one by the force
of government twice, in the
Meiji era and after World War
II. He had some good feelings
toward Japan before coming

For the fourth consecutive
year, the Foundation for
American-Chinese Cultural Ex-
changes (FACCE) is proud to
announce that the Shanghai
Chinese Language Programs
(SCLP) will be offered again at
East China Normal University
in Shanghai, China during the
summer of 1983. SCLP offers
two intensive study programs,
both of which are open to under-
graduates, graduate students
and professionals:

Language and Culture; An in-
tensive eight-week program for
students with or without prior
training in Chinese (courses are

f

   
 
 

here. Now it seems to him that
there is a great gap between
what he regarded as Japan and
what she really is. He had ex-
pected to see old buildings, peo-
ple in ‘kimonos,’ and streetcars
that appeared in typical pic-
tures of Japan in the Meiji era.
But, when he came here to
Japan, he found that almost
everything was new and
modern just like in New York or
Chicago. He was somewhat
disappointed, especially with
people dressed in western
clothes, not in ‘kimonos.’

He now has six classes at the

‘University: Japanology, poli-

tics, Japanese literature and 3
Japanese language classes, the
seminars of which are good
because they are of the right
size for lively discussions. On
the other hand, some lectures
are not so good because so
many students are packed into
a big lecture hall, never asking

Program Offered in

offered on four different levels
at the ECNU). Past par-
ticipants have received
language credit for this pro-
gram at more than forty col-
leges and universities through-
out the U.S.

Law/Trade and Language;
An eight-week program design-
ed particularly for pre-law and
law students and professionals
in the legal field. Participants
study Chinese law, trade and
business with legal scholars, at-
torneys, and trade officials.

Both programs include room
and board on the East China
Normal University campus,

questions of the professor, who
is standing in front of the class.
And students in everyday life in
Japanese Universities are
group-oriented, taking part in
clubs and seminars. Whether a
student belongs to a club or not
is a very important matter. But
in America it isn’t. Although
Rikkyo University is very
liberal and students are per-
sonally open and friendly, once
students belong to a group, per-
sonal friendships seem to disap-
pear. So he sometimes feels it is
hard to make friends with
students in a group.

By the way, it seems to him
that language is a barrier for
him to communicate with peo-
ple, because he can’t speak
Japanese fluently and there are
very few students who can con-
verse comfortably in English.
So he can only have superficial
conversations with them, not a
profound discussion. And why

do Rikkyo students always
speak to him in English? Partly
because we, Japanese, have too
much of an inferiority complex
about our own language. We
should make much of our own
language and speak it with con-
fidence. At any rate, he comes
here to study Japan and
Japanese and naturally wants
to master Japanese.

The purpose of his stay in
Japanis not only to study, but to
learn many things from his dai-
ly experiences. For instance, he
belongs to the Kendo club at
Rikkyo University. He doesn’t
understand Kendo well but it is
very fascinating and, what’s
more, it’s much less westerniz-
ed than the other clubs. Mem-
bers of the club bow in the tradi-
tional style to their Senpai
(their seniors) and the Kohai
(their juniors) are true to the
Japanese character, he thinks.

By the way, he likes Japanese
girls very much because they
are cute and open to him. His
favorite Japanese singer is Iyo
Matsumoto. She came to Rik-
kyo University on Oct. 23. He
surely enjoyed her concert a lot.

After he goes back to Ameri-
ca, he is planning to go to
graduate school and wants to
teach Japanese history in the
future He thinks that people will
pay much more attention to
Asia in the future than to the
United States or Russia. At that
time his one year’s experience
in Japan will do him a world of
good.

Finally, we need to have a
better understanding of ex-
change students from abroad,
so the Rikkyo student exchange
system serves for greater
mutual understandings _ be-
tween countries as well as
among the people that live
there.

Shang hai [Ski Equipment

weekend excursions, visits to
the Shanghai opera, theatre,
films, and museums, as well as
an optional post-program tour
to Beijing, Xi-an, Luoyang, and
other cities.

Enrollment is limited and the
deadline for application is
March 15, 1983. For complete in-
formation, write or call: Mrs.
C.P. Sobelman, Director, The
Foundation for American-
Chinese Cultural Exchanges,
Box 227, 525 West 120th Street,
New York, New York 10027, or
call area code (212) 678-3943,
Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays.

Pa

 

Snowminks now have an
alternative to renting ski equip-
ment slopeside, which often
proves time-consuming and ex-
pensive.

Bonnie Fitzgerald and Gar-
rett Moore, ‘‘The Ski Outfit-
ters,” have opened a ski rental
shop on the corner of Nelson
and Jefferson. Weekday rates
for skis, boots and poles are $8
for a full day and $6 for a half-
day. Weekend and holiday ren-
tals cost $10 per day. If you are

 

partially equipped, you may

Rentals Available

rent poles for $2 and boots or
skies for $5. Perhaps you
already own a pair of rapid
boards, but have let them
become dull and crusty. The Ski
Outfitters will P-tex, wax and
sharpen your skies for $10.

Moore and Fitzgerald stock
Kastle rental ski models at
lengths up to 180 cms., and
Dolomite boots in sizes 8-14.
Their shop faces Lexington Dry
Goods, and is open from noon to
6 p.m. Monday through Satur-
day and at lunchtime on Sun-
days.

 

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
  
  

  

The Cockpit} | CALLAHEADFOR
% TAKE OUT SERVICE W&L Lacrosse
OR
TODAYS HOMEMADE presents
SOUP du JOUR
de SOUP LINE "The Brice Street Band”’

 

 

463-9111
EXT 324

in Evans Dining Hall on
Friday, January 21
$5.00 Donations -

 

can T  S  S O  e

 

 

 

 

LPLILLRETPTRTIIL ITI LTR aL

Vas
Q

   
   
 

Free Beer with Admission

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
: See Lacrosse Players
:

aS
Thé Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983, Page 9

 

 

Reviews:

Billy Joel’s best yet
Ozzy still the same

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON
Phi Entertainment Writer

Billy Joel’s new album, ‘‘The
Nylon Curtain,” is perhaps his
finest moment, both musically
and lyrically. Nothing at all like
its single, ‘Pressure,’ this
album is a sensitive and in-
sightful look at the common
man’s plight.

“Allentown” is a scathing
assessment of the current
economic situation and beauti-
fully voices the unemployed’s
rage against their situation.
Joel also attacks the education
system, saying ‘‘So the gradua-
tions hang on the wall/ but they
never really helped us at all/
no, they never taught us what
was real.’’ Musically soothing
but lyrically stinging, ‘‘Allen-
town’”’ makes a forceful state-

ment.

“Laura” is a sensitive song
where he agonizes about how to
deal with an old friend, ‘‘how do
you hang up on someone who
needs you that bad?”’

The most powerful song on
the album is ‘‘Goodbye
Saigon,’’ where Joel verbalizes
the rage and frustration of the
Vietnam veterans. Opening
with the sound of synthesized
helicopters, the song starts off
slowly and with a touch of sur-
realism. It inspires a mental
image hauntingly like ‘‘Apoca-
lypse Now.” Thoroughout the
song he keeps building up the
tension, finally venting his
anger at the end. He cries out at
the lack of support at home,
praises the comraderie of the
fighting men and screams at
the terror of the night, which

Superdance to be held

next weekend

By TOM BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Having seen Jerry Lewis
screaming for cash every Labor
Day for years now, everyone
has been conditioned to think of
any event connected with the
Muscular Dystrophy Associa-
tion as a simple fund raising af-
fair. W&L’s fifth annual 30-hour
long Superdance, however, is
designed to offer much more
than a loud master of
ceremonies.

Scheduled for January 28, 29,
and 30, in Evans Dining Hall,
the dance will include activities
and attractions for those who
don’t dance as well as those who
do. Four popular regional
bands, pie throws, volleyball
and frisbee contests are plan-
ned to attract students not par-
ticipating in the marathon.

The four bands include
Casper, which is a Top-40 band
that plays songs by musicians
such as Bruce Springsteen,
Stevie Wonder and the Police.

The Red Ball Jets is another
of the bands scheduled to ap-
pear. The band has a strong
following at W&L and plays
tunes from bands that include

Tom Petty and the Heart-
breakers, the Rollings Stones
and The Who.

Those looking for funk and
beach music will look forward
.to Casper appearing at the
dance marathon. Certainly the
most popular act that will ap-
pear is the Skip Castro Band,
which is an excellent bar band
that plays a wide variety of
music including rockabilly.

The pie throws will involve
student’s bidding on a chance to
toss pies into the faces of
various faculty members. Pro-

._ fessor Ham Smith, Dean At-

wood, Professor Julius
Overbeck and Maj. John Meers
are expected to be among those
who will be victims of student
frustration. Students are en-
couraged by Townsend Oast,
Chairman of the Superdance
Committee, to pool their money
in order to ensure the highest
bid for a certain professor.
Admission to the Superdance
is $5 per person and $8 per cou-
ple and is good for the entire 30
hours. Beer will be served at the
event at additional cost. Stu-
dents who are interested in dan-
cing are encouraged to contact
Carole Chappell at her office.

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

TTS E Ss OU CSTE TB
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, at —

Garlic Bread you can eat for

OH hy
Et

600 E. NelsonSt. Lexington

But

IPHONE 463-7000

 

the enemy owned: In a drastic
contrast, he deals with war and
death in a quiet acoustic piece
that ends with the sounds of a
still night.

At once Joel is successful in
making an album that is smooth
and soothing musically, while
the lyrics demand close atten-
tion and can sometimes vent the
rage of the common citizen. It is
a good album.

What Billy Joel accomplished
through musicianship and liter-
ate lyrics Ozzy Osbourne tries
to do through screaming guitar
riffs, thunderous backing and
feedback. Both artists express
rage against their plight in life
and things that are out of their
control, but Osbourne does it in
: far more primal way, violent-

y.
Osbourne’s new album,
“Speak of the Devil,” is a dou-

‘ble live set recorded at the Ritz

in New York City. All the songs
go back to Osbourne’s days with
Black Sabbath and represent an
outstanding selection of Sab-
bath staples.

Although very weak vocally,
as Osbourne always has been,
the album is often excellent in-
strumentally, with guitarist
Brad Gillis often shows up Sab-
bath guitarist Tony Iommi.
Gillis, another guitarist that
Osbourne found in club circuits,
replaces Randy Rhoades, who
was killed last spring in a plane
crash.

The album has a number of
Sabbath’s greatest songs, in-
cluding ‘Iron Man/Children of
the Grave,” ‘Fairies Wear
Boots,” and a rousing version of
“Sabbath Bloody Sabbath.”’
“‘War Pigs,” from Sabbath’s se-
cond album, is probably the
high point of this album.

 

 

Rock concerts

Concerts:

Jan.

21 Billy Squier and Saga
22 Billy Squier and Saga
25 Kiss

27 Missing Persons
Feb.

1 Adam Ant

6 Tom Petty

7 Meatloaf

14 Warren Zevon

16 Pat Benatar

18 Ozzy Osbourne

22 Neil Young, Solo

Local events

Around the W&L Campus:
Jan.

24 FILM: Shakespeare Series: ‘Troilus and Cressida.”’ Northen

Auditorium. Free.

25 FILM: ‘The 400 Blows.” Reid Hall, Room 203, 7 & 9 p.m. Free.
25 CONCERT: W&L Glee Club and Lexington High Senior Choir

in Concert. Lee Chapel. Free.
This Weekend:

Friday, January 21: Houserockers, Palms Opera House.
The Brice Street Band, Evans dining hall.

Saturday, January 22:

Union Pacific, Palms Opera House *
The Offenders, Randolph-Macon Womens College

The Findells, The Cockpit

Next Week:

Tuesday, January 25

Good Guys, The Cockpit
Wednesday, January 26

Good Guys, Palms Opera House.

Norfolk Scope
Fayetteville,NC

Norfolk Scope

Wax Museum, Wash., DC

Chrysler Hall, Norfolk
Charlotte,NC, Coliseum
Capitol Center, Wash., DC
Bayou, Wash., DC
Greensboro, NC, Coliseum’
Charlotte NC, Coliseum
Baltimore Civic Center

 

 

The album is a must for any
Black Sabbath or Ozzy Os-
bourne fan, but anyone who is
not into heavy metal should
stay far away. The album is
hard, grating, agressive and
angry. It is an audio assault
that never stops and never
mellows. Perhaps the best
selection of live Sabbath
material available now, I would
recommend any headbanger to
look into this album, but human
beings should steer clear.

As a final note, Clash fans
should keep on the lookout for a
“best of’’ album. Radio stations
have gotten an album called
“The World According to
Clash,’’ that covers all their
albums and has a number of
great songs including ‘‘London
Calling,” ‘Train in Vain’’ and
“*Rock the Casbah.’’ No news on
whether a regular release is ex-
pected, but if it is released it
will be a must for any collec-
tion.

SUH

W& L

Casper

4

2) 10000

¢ l VS we
with

THE SKIP CASTRO BAND

Red Ball Jets

Register to Dance NOW |
Carole Chappell’s Office — University Center

Washington and Lee University’s

5th Annual

Muscular Dystrophy Superdance
January 28, 29, 30, 1983

DANCE FOR THOSE WHO CAN'T!

SIMULA

Longest
Party

Steps

=

lite
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983:

Roanoke Tonight

 

Cagers Run Streak to Nine

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Running its winning streak to
nine games, the Washington
and Lee basketball team
defeated Emory and Henry,
Bridgewater and Mary Wash-
ington last week to improve the
Generals’ Old Dominion
Athletic Conference record to
3-1 and their overall mark to
10-2.

Last Thursday night in the
Warner Center the Generals
struggled against a surprisingly
tough Emory and Henry squad.
W&L managed to pull out a
75-68 win despite inconsistent
play.

“We took steps to correct
that,”’ noted W&L Coach Verne
Canfield concerning the Gener-
als’ sub-par performance
against Emory and Henry.
“And to the credit of the
players, they did correct that
for the most part,’ Canfield
concluded.

For the first time in a long
time the Generals fell behind
early in the game, as the Wasps
built a quick 10-2 lead. E&H’s
Bruce Bailey hit four con-
secutive outside jump shots to
fuel the Wasps’ early surge.

W&L, led by the scoring of
Billy Yates and John Lee
Graves, gradually narrowed
the gap, and actually held one-
point leads several times in the
half. Emory and Henry how-
ever, took a tenuous 33-32 lead
into the locker room at half
time.

W&L finally started to take
control of the game in the open-

| STATE THEATRE

.

HELDOVER me
by popular demand a
Eve. 7-9 E:

Sat.Sun. Mat. 2 & Mon. [ee
Night All Seats $1.50 i

BURT REYNOLDS
GOLDIE HAWN

STARTS
WED.,JAN 26

They couldn't have
liked each other less...

YB HRS

NICK NOLTE |
is 8 cop.
EDOIE MURPHY
is @ convict,

Toe scemenienis

CINEMA
463-3543 Bee

 

dalle :
LEXINGTON Wa
Ends Thurs. 7:15.89
FastTimes(R)
STARTS FRIDAY

THEY CALL
ME BRUCE

Eve.’s7:15&9

' Sat., Sun., Mat.2& 5
Mon. Eve.—All Seats $1.50 _

ae Er

 

 

 

ing minutes of the second half.
The Generals grabbed their
first lead of more than a point
when a Brian Hanson basket
put W&L in front 38-35 with 17
minutes left in the game. Three
minutes later a Graves goal ex-
tended the Generals’ lead to
46-39.

Emory and Henry, led by its
superb power forward Boo
Chafin, refused to allow the
Generals to pull away though.
The Wasps tied the score at
55-55 with 5:55 left to play to set
the stage for a tight finish.

Consecutive baskets by
Frank Eppes, Hanson, and
Yates re-established a six point
cushion for W&L, and the foul-
plagued Wasps could not éatch
the Generals. Several Generals
hit key foul shots down the
stretch to seal the 75-68 win.

John Lee Graves led the
Generals with 24 points and
Yates and Hanson added 16 and
14 points respectively.

W&L had considerably less
trouble in defeating Bridge-
water College Saturday at
Bridgewater, as the Generals
led almost the entire game on
the way to an 89-80 victory.

‘‘We had the concentration at
both ends of the court that we
needed,” stated Canfield. ‘‘For
the most part we got the job
done.”’

The Generals had a par-
ticularly outstanding night
shooting, hitting 66 percent of
their field goal attempts. Con-
centration, shot selection, mak-
ing the offense work, and good
individual efforts were cited by

MISSING:

The Infirmary’s
only wheelchair is
missing! If you
know its
whereabouts,
please call
Extension No. 234.

   
   

  

The Cockpit

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

 
     
     
   

Canfield as the reasons for the
excellent shooting percentage.
Billy Yates led the Generals
with 22 points, including four
three-point baskets. Hanson ad-
ded 21 for the Generals and
Graves tossed in 14 points.

Tuesday night against Mary
Washington, the Generals held
a comfortable double-digit lead
throughout most of the game,
and had little trouble in down-
ing the Blue Tide 82-65.

The Generals led 40-26 at the
half, and never allowed the Blue
Tide to get any closer than 11
points in the second half.

All five W&L starters scored
in double figures. Hanson led
the Generals with 20 points.
Graves, Eppes, and Yates all
tossed in 15 and Chris Baldwin
added 10 points.

Tonight in the Warner Center
the Generals tangle with
nationally-ranked Roanoke Col-
lege in an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference game start-
ing at 7:30 p.m.

The Maroons own a 9-0 record
after Monday evening’s win
against Catholic.

“The Roanoke game will take
care of itself,” explained Can-
field when asked if he put any
special emphasis on the upcom-
ing clash with the Maroons.
“The players themselves put a
special emphasis on the
Roanoke game,” stated Can-
field.

Coach Ed Green’s Maroons
are lead by senior forward
Gerald Holmes. This season
Holmes is one of the leading
scorers in the ODAC, averaging
17.6 points per game.

‘“‘We would like to control the
tempo in any game we play,”
noted Canfield. ‘‘But specifical-
ly against Roanoke, we don’t
want to get into a running
game.”

Last year against Roanoke,
the Generals defeated the
Maroons 62-61, but lost two con-
tests at Roanoke. The 62-61
W&L win was a superb game,
won in the closing seconds on a
basket by senior George
Spears.

The Cockpit

is

The Findells

Saturday, Jan. 22

 

Coach Remillard gives instructions to his free-style relay team in

 

 

action here last Saturday against Towson State. The Generals fell
to the Tigers 71-42, which drops their record to 2-3, but Remillard is
pleased with the team’s improvement. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Coach Optimistic
AboutComing Week

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L swim team is
continuing its travel down the
road of individual improvement
and Coach Page Remillard will
be looking for that development
to manifest itself with a pair of
upsets as the Generals travel to
Shepherd College on Friday
evening and return home Satur-
day afternoon to face
Georgetown.

‘‘We’ll be going for a couple of
victories this weekend,’ re-
marked the Generals’ fourth
year mentor, who looks at the
upcoming contests as a ‘‘con-
fidence building weekend.”

W&L takes a 2-3 slate into Fri-
day night’s action. The Gen-
erals are coming off two defeats
from last weekend’s dual meets
against the Dukes of James
Madison and the Tigers of
Towson State. W&L was down-
ed by JMU Friday night 78-29
and lost to Towson on Saturday
afternoon 71-42.

Despite the two setbacks,
Remillard sees his swimmers
handling the team defeats and
still concentrating on earning
personal best times. ‘‘The en-
thusiasm is still there,”
Remillard said. He hopes his
swimmers will start to evaluate
less than best performances as
commendable given such cir-
cumstances as last week’s ex-

tensive workout schedule.

 

 

eee Me Me ee

The Generals got fine perfor-
mances from four of their key
competitors. Junior Gary
Meyer, sophomores Bobby
Pearson and Taber Smith, and
freshman John Moody turned in
performances that illustrated
the personal progression that
Remillard looks for.

“I’m looking forward to the
meets, and the team will be
working this week, believing
that they can win,” said
Remillard, who will take a
rested and confident squad to
Shepherdstown, West Virginia
for what will undoubtedly be the
beginning of a_ profitable
weekend.

POOLSIDE: Meyer turned in
four sub-50-second 100-yard free
swims last weekend, while
Smith had two 23-second efforts
in the 50-free and Moody cut
five seconds off his 500-free
time between Friday and Satur-
day. Pearson, who already
swims in the freestyle and
backstroke events, showed his
versatility when he tried the
200-yard breaststroke with
respectable results...Sweet
Briar College will team with the
W&L men for a co-ed format in
Saturday’s meet at Cy Twom-
bly pool against Georgetown.
It’s a combination that’s work-
ed before, and, as Remillard
noted, ‘‘W&L has always swum
well with Sweet Briar on the
deck.’’ The contest starts at 2

EAST LEX |

\
\
U
‘
‘
I

  

a i dt bad Baa D ad
 

Faces hidden behind protective headgear, two unidentified W&L
fencers square off in a practice session in Warner Center. The Fen-
cing Club will have as second match of the season against Duke
University at VMI on Saturday, Jan. 29.

Wrestling

The Washington and Lee
wrestling team will host the
fifth annual W&L College In-
vitational Saturday, Jan. 22,
after finishing seventh in a field
of eight squads at the Georgia
Tech Invitational last weekend.

Jeff Dixon at 190 lb., Larry
Anker at 134 lb., and Carlton
Peebles in the unlimited-weight
class each chalked up victories
in Atlanta. Dixon was 2-2,
finishing fourth in the 190 lb.
competition. He advanced to
the semi-finals by defeating his
Citadel opponent 8-4 in the first
round, then fell 7-2 in the semi-
finals to Lexington rival VMI.
He was victorious in the con-
solation action but went on to

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983, Page 11

W&L Hosts Meet Saturday

lose 9-2 in the consolation finals
to the same Citadel foe he had
mastered in the first round.
Anker concluded the tourna-
ment at 1-2 with a 9-2 victory
against his Citadel opponent
and two 12-11 and 20-6 losses to
Duke and VMI adversaries.
Peebles was also 1-2, winning
11-2 over his Sewanee opponent
and losing to grapplers from
Georgia Tech and Ohio North-
ern.
The W&L Invitational will see
Catawba, Davidson, Elon,
Hampden-Sydney, Longwood,
Lynchburg and Pfeiffer col-
leges in double-elimination
competition. The Generals’
head coach Gary Franke picks

Longwood as the favorite
although Catawba, Pfeiffer and
Elon finished a close one-two-
three last year.

In addition to Dixon, Anker
and Peebles the Generals will
be represented by junior cap-
tain Tim Valliere (158 Ibs.),
freshman Brian Lifsted (118
Ibs.), classmate Jim Foley (126
Ibs.), sophomore Wes Payne
(142 Ibs.), junior Tim White or
sophomore Mike Spellman (150
Ibs.), freshman Win Phillips
(158 lbs.), and classmate Dave
Johnston (177 lbs. )

First round competition
begins Saturday at 11 a.m. and
will wind up at 8 p.m. with the
Championship matches.

 

 

Fencers Remain. Dedicated Despite Obstacles

By LEE NICHOLS
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
Fencing Club was organized in
January, 1977, by Dr. James
Worth, University psychologist.
Worth, a varsity fencer at Ohio
State, has participated in the
sport since he was 15; in 1976 he
was ranked first in Virginia in
sabre competition. After spend-
ing time as an assistant coach
to the VMI fencing club, Worth
decided to found a club here at
W&L. His efforts started with
posters on campus beckoning
interested students, no ex-
perience necessary. Some 35
people showed up for that first
meeting; 12 men stayed with
the program and the Fencing
Club was on its way.

Fencing is a non-body contact
sport played on both the club
and intercollegiate levels.
Fencing bouts, as they are call-
ed, are conducted on a 40 meter
strip; each fencer is equipped
with a protective mask, jacket,
and gloves, and one of three
types of weapons. The winner of
a bout is that competitor who
can score five ‘‘touches’’ on his
opponent first. Touches are
generally recorded by sophis-
ticated electrical scoring
devices, but in the case of sabre
competition a panel of five
judges determines the scoring.

There are three different

BEAT ROANOKE

TONITE

fencing categories involving
different weapons and target
areas. The foil weapon is the
basic weapon of fencing; it is

the lightest of the three and is

also used for training purposes
for all beginners. In foil com-
petition only touches on the op-
ponent’s torso with the tip of the
weapon are counted. The
weapon used in epee competi-
tion is heavier than that of foil;
this sword is a close approxima-
tion of the dueling swords of old.
In epee bouts the whole body is
the target area, but once again
the touch must be made with
the point of the weapon. The
third fencing category is the
sabre class. This sword is an
adaptation of the old cavalry
sabres, although they are
substantially lighter. In sabre
competition the target area is
above the waist, and scores can
be made with the edges of the
sword as well as the tip.

Nine men participate in a
fencing meet, three in each
class of competition. Each man
duels the three opponents in his
class, so that a meet consists of
27 bouts. Each bout is a
“winner-take-all’’ situation; it
doesn’t matter whether the
score is 5-0 or 5-4. For this
reason, the final outcome of a
meet may not be indicative of
the closeness of the competi-
tion. In W&L’s first meet of the
year against VMI, W&L lost

   

    

18-9. However five of the
Generals’ bouts were determin-
ed by a single touch; if these
had gone the other way W&L
would have come out a winner.

Under the capable direction
of Coach Worth, the W&L fenc-
ing club has enjoyed a fair
amount of success. ‘“‘Over the
years we have compiled a win-
loss record of about 50 percent.
We are not an outstanding
team, but we have had some in-
dividuals stand out. Senior Pat
Berg was ranked third in Vir-
ginia in sabre competition fol-
lowing last year’s state tourna-
ment.”

Worth discussed the merits of
the sport of fencing and why he
introduced the sport at W&L.
“Fencing is a sport you can en-
joy all of your life; I personally
have fenced against men in
their 70s and 80s who were still
respectable fencers. Secondly,
you can start from scratch as a
freshman, and with some hard
work develop into an ac-
complished fencer in a year or
two. Most importantly, fencing
is a sport anyone can par-
ticipate in; a lack in physical
size or strength may be com-
pensated for by timing,
quickness and savvy.”

Coach Worth is concerned
with the future of fencing at
W&L for several reasons. First
of all, he states that the fencing
teams at both James Madison

 

and George Mason Universities
have been forced to disband due
to a lack of support and the loss
of necessary funds. According
to Worth, the fencing club
received $700 last year from the
Executive Committee, which
falls well short of the team’s
necessary expenses, which in-
clude maintenance of electrical
equipment, replacement blades
and travel expenses. The team,
whose schedule includes meets
with Duke, U.Va., and Virginia
Tech, is no longer able to com-
pete with schools such as Navy,
William & Mary, and the Uni-
versity of Baltimore due to lack
of sufficient funds for an over-
night stay.

Despite his concern over the
financial problems the team
has to face, Worth feels that
fencing will survive owing to
the dedication of the par-
ticipants. ‘‘These guys are ex-
tremely dedicated to fencing.
They begin practice at the end
of September for a season that
doesn’t start til after
Christmas. They pay for their
own equipment as well as some
of their travel expenses, and
they get virtually no recogni-
tion.”

This year’s squad has ten
dedicated members. In the foil
division are seniors John
Viahoplus and Leigh Kaplan,
junior Allen Coe, and freshman
Mike Grow. Competing in epee

Chinese, Polynesian, and
American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 

  
  

are junior team captain Rick
Swagler, classmate Sean Len-
non and freshman Cotton
Puryear. Dueling in the sabre
division are brothers Pat and
Mike Berg, a senior and a
freshman respectively, and
junior Chuck Depoy.

Out of curiosity I went to one
of the team’s practices to get a
feel for what fencing is all
about. One thing that impressed
me was that the participants

_ were not built like basketball

centers or defensive linemen.
Fencing is a_ fast-paced
calculated action which re-
quires agility as well as en-
durance; fencing practice did
not appear to be a stroll through
the park.

The fencing club’s next match
is Sat., Jan. 29, against Duke at
VMI. The fencing will begin at
1:30 p.m.

After seeing all of the hard
work that these people are put-
ting into fencing. I feel that the
student body should give the
team the support they deserve.
Stop by the match at VMI for a
while, or go watch a practice in
the gym some afternoon. Fenc-
ing may not be for everyone,
but it deserves our attention
and support.

Cinema |

 

Buena Vista

{ "A RICH AND SENSITIVE STORY.")

  
 
 
   
 

His father's gone
His mother’s a memory.

His brother's moving on
But Tex McCormick isn't
giving in

 

SIGNED The Unknown Fans

  

   

A LOHA WOK [Sun, Buffet 12-2:30—$4.25 |

 

  

 

FOR SALE 409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia “Carry-out Available sige) Matt
Deep Fat Fryer-208 OS eee es heres aeee tae ee $275°° FS fe —™\. Open Tuesday through Sunday a aban ron on
Fs chcd oe ee b ceca ete hetireciereereecebbeets $75°° oe, He Luncheon 11:30-2:30 BG)
eS ae ee ee en rr $175°° : 3 Dinner 5-10 Ba ae
aries = $50°° a % = Closed Saturday Luncheon a =e es
Call 463-7932 after 5 p.m. an . Nig

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1983

   
  
  

SS a NG 6 e 'e> "nw :,.', BW
y 3 ) J
ZY Y
Y Y
j ;
Z : Y
7 WOOLSWEATERS overs... 0.005. 40% or Z
Z Boston Traders ¢ Byford 7 y
Y Cambridge Dry Goods « Lord Jeff y
| . SPORTCOATS. 2). Gh a, Ya price ]
y Harris Tweeds ¢ Camel Hair y
Y

7  SIERRADESIGNJACKETS........ 40% orr ]
Y | Y
Y Y
Y Y
| SLABS oo. oo ]
y 100% Cotton Corduroy « 100% Wool 3 y
7 ONEGROUPBUTTONDOWNS ...20°25% = 7
100% Cotton g 50 y
| RS ere ee eeneees Dior 2d ]
y Repps ¢ Foulards ¢ Challis y
Y GJ
Y : | oe
Z, Many MoreGreat Buys _ lexington dry goods Student Charge Accounts Weleon Uj
Y Corner Sawa Jefferson — y

-9340 ,

USIP. Woo ({, CG iu;:C:j§y§W2d«d« wv"

©, O_O. Oe Se oe o%e oe ce Qa on cle oe cte ote a GG 1% Ge Fe On oOo Go Ge 2 On o%e Me On Ge oOe oe oe ce oe oe oe oe che Me 0% oe oe aM, o% a oe, o%e Me 0% e oe on oe eats om
aho-ate-cte-otecte-afe-cfe-afo-ele- cle fo-ate fe oho aSe-ace-ao-ace-ao- sho ao ace-ale-4ce he 15-40 a0e-05-a0e- 45 450 c00 000 050-050-450 450 60-00 O5e C0 15-450 0L 050-450-150 050-450-450 a5e 450 setae ee aoe eee

o, .o
o 0,0

oO. oe

 

e

“~~

Large Screen TV PALMS oper a house | Large Screen TV %

Sat. and Sun. NFL Playoffs Special

BURGER ’n BREW — ony $1.00

Dance—Dance—Dance—Dance— Dance —Dance—Dance—Dance—Dance

50° Drafts 5-10 p.m.

e,
°e

 

 

e,

oe

°e
eo

 

e

2

°

°,
O02,

°,
°

eo o%e <'
>

©,
oe 4,

2,
e

°

o. a
> ©,

*%,

2,
*

 

e,

oO 0,9 Oe

2,
C)

?e,
©, 0, 2, o, .%, .%, .%, @,
ig? 9 00 OS Mgt 0% M0 O, ‘es

e

2 a ic
: UNION PACIFIC ¢
$ HOUSEROCKERS !!! Top 40 Dance Band $

*
co
o-45

o,
eg ®,

e

e+,

a

oe

o

Don’t Miss the Excitment ! S

4, O_O a Ge 2% o%e Me o%e Me o%e 0% ote che che. che ote c%e che oe ce nce oe se Gn cn aie he He he He oe ie Ge he He He oe Ge ce he a nate eo
Mgr BO MOU OOO OU OU OU UO OSU OES U OUP OU OU OUT UO U OTS UU OU OU OU GUT VP UP UO UP Or OP MOTO UP UO OH TOU OU OU IU SUS OO UO U0 10 ©

INVENTORY CLEARANCE

CORNERS SALE
STARTS NEXT WEEK!!!

°,

oe

e
2,
°

oe
eo
@
oe
a
o
3

%

°

¢
2
é
ae
°°
é
2
3

 

—mimuittiiimignee CORLIS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
  

VOLUME 82

NUMBER 16

THE UNTVERSTTY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

,

LEXINGTON, VY

Ring-tum Phi™

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia January 27, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

International student
speaks out on W&L

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

At the Founder’s Day-ODK
Convocation last Wednesday,
Seng-Kah ‘‘Henry” Baey was
“tapped” into the honorary
leadership fraternity. Consider-
ing he is an international stu-
dent, his induction stands as a
great accomplishment, but for
Henry Baey it only seemed nat-
ural in view of his past ac-
complishments.

For most people, Singapore is
but a.speck on the map, a city
which holds the same name as
the nation in which it is found.

But to Henry Baey, ’83C,
Singapore is home.

A center for trade and finance
in Southeast Asia, Singapore
boasts the second highest stand-
ard of living in the region, se-
cond only to Japan, and its port
is the third busiest in terms of
tonnage passing through its
waters. Leaving the Singapore
culture dominated by Chinese
to attend W&L was a big step
for Baey, one which he will not
soon forget. Several differences
stand between the two cultures,
and Baey’s experiences at W&L
have given him greater insight
into both styles of living.

“There is a great difference
in culture between the two coun-
tries. To an American, the Far
Eastern culture is very strange.
Not everybody understands the
culture nor can appreciate
things being done in a different
way,” Baey said.

‘‘America is so big in size that
it will always have an influence
on the rest of the world,”’ he ex-
plained.

“If Americans do not try to
understand or appreciate how
others are, they will always be
isolated from the rest of the
world,” :

FD tickets

In an attempt to establish a
better understanding of foreign
cultures, Baey has devoted a
great deal of his time to the In-
ternational Club on campus,
seeing under his direction the
purchase and opening of the In-
ternational House this past
September. Baey feels there is
a need for a larger international
student body at W&L to allow
for greater personal exposure
and understanding of other
countries and peoples.

“The school provides excep-
tionally good resources for the
American student, but there is a
lack of individuals in the ad-
ministration to whom foreign
students can relate,” said Baey.

“The club cannot survive as
foreign students alone. Ameri-
cans are also needed. Hope-
fully, there will be a strong
organization in the future for
those who need it,’’ Baey said.

One difference between the
two cultures is the lack of man-
datory military service here. In
Singapore, all males are re-
quired by law to serve at least
one to two years for basic train-
ing and a maximum of 30 days
per year thereafter for reser-
vist training. After finishing the
equivalent of high school, Baey
entered the Singapore army
where he was selected as a can-
didate for Officer-Cadet School.
After nine months of rigorous
training, Baey was commis-
sioned as a 2nd Lieutenant and
chose to specialize in armor

warfare. After serving with the

Army for an additional year
and a half as a tank platoon
commander, Baey was com-
missioned full lieutenant as he
left the army.

“Those years in the army are
the best times. The fun, the
comraderie, is not soon forgot-

ten,” said Baey. “If I have a
son, I’ll want him to go into the
army, too. It gives you time to
grow up, to decide what you
want to do.”

Baey’s leadership success in
the army found its roots in his
earlier experiences with Boy
Scouting. At 16, Baey was the
Senior Patrol leader of a troop
of 160 scouts, and when he went
in to a new school to finish his
pre-university studies, he
founded the Venture Scout unit
in is new school. By his 18th bir-
thday, Baey had been presented
with the highest scout award in
Singapore, the President’s
Scout Award personally
presented by the President of
Singapore.

“I enjoyed Scouting,” Baey
said. “It really shaped and
changed me.”’

With his awards for leader-
ship giving merit to his tran-
script, Baey began applying to
colleges in the United States in
his final year in the army. Con-
centrating his search around
Hollins College where both his
sisters were attending, Baey
finally settled upon W&L.

“I chose W&L largely
because some American friends
in Singapore recommended it,”
Baey said, adding that being
near members of his family
always helped.

Applying to an American
school and then attending the
school is more difficult for a
foreigner than for an American.
Having never visited this coun-
try before his freshman year,
Baey at first had a difficult time
with the differences in societies
and educational systems.

“When it comes to studies,
there is more pressure to do
well at home. It is more com-

(continued on page 5)

EC approves price boost

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi EC Correspondent

Tickets for this year’s Fancy
Dress weekend will cost $30
which is a five dollar increase
over last year.

Student Activities Board
Chairman Lanier Edge, flanked
by FD Director John Haywood
and Treasurer Andy Cooney,
presented the SAB’s argument
for the increase. Edge said that
a $5 increase is necessary as a
“margin of safety.”

Haywood noted that this
year’s budget will be about
$48,000 as opposed to $72,000 last
year. Edge and Haywood as-
sured the EC that most of the
art and design is being done by

students. Last year, much of the
money spent went to outside ar-
tists and contractors even
though the work could have
been done by students.

The ticket price for the Thurs-
day night party will be deter-
mined when the decoration ex-
penses for the Ball are more
definite, Edge said.

Steve Connett, freshman
representative, asked if it
might be possible to extend the
time of the Ball from its current
8:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. time slot. “It
sounds like an eighth grade
prom,”’ Connett said.

Haywood replied that the ad-
ministration will not let them
extend the time, saying that the

SAB had tried last year.
“They’ve pretty much said we
become lawless animals at
one,’ Haywood said.

EC President Bennett Ross
and Vice President Morgan
Griffith reviewed the SAB
budget and agreed that the in-
crease was necessary.

In contrast to the SAB’s $5 in-
crease, the Registrar’s office
sent the EC a letter stating that
the drop/add fee would be
reduced by $5. This was the
result of a campaign by Mason
and sophomore representative
Dave Jonson, to make the fee
$5. The two were commended
by their colleagues on the com-
mittee.

 

A recruit of the “Unknown Fans” adjusts his paper bag during

*

. » @i-

dl
Sd
sig

‘last Thursday’s game against Roanoke College. Who is this man?
(Phi photo by the unknown photographer)

This weekend

Superdance

By TOM BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s most
important and second most im-
pressive party of the year is
scheduled for this coming week-
end. Thirty hours of continuous
entertainment will be provided
at this year’s Superdance for
the Muscular Dystrophy
Association.

Calling the Superdance,
“‘W&L’s longest party,’’ Dance
Committee Chairman Town-
send Oast is encouraging
everyone to ‘‘support those who
are dancing for those who can’t,
by attending W&L’s 30 round
fight against M.D.”

The party will start at 8:00
p.m. Friday in Evans Dining
Hall. Tickets are good for the
entire’ weekend and will be
available at the door for $5 per
person or $8 couple.

Certainly the most attractive
aspect of the dance will be the
20 hours of live bands that will
appear. Skip Castro will play
from 8:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and
Steps will perform from 11:00
p.m. to 2:00 a.m. on Friday
night. The Red Ball Jets will ap-
pear from 6:00 p.m. to 9:45 p.m.
and Casper will play from 10:00
p.m. to 2:00 a.m. on Saturday
night.

The other ten hours of the
Superdance will include pie
throws and similar events for
the spectators. The pie throw
schedule has Major John J.
Mears appearing at 10:30 p.m.
and Dean of the Commerce
School Edward Atwood showing
his face at 11:45 on Friday
night. On Saturday, Professor
Julius Overbeck will appear at
9:45 p.m., Professor Hampden
H. Smith at 11:00 p.m. and
Coach Gary Fallon at midnight.

Oast noted that all students on
contract with the the Dining
Hall are donating Saturday’s
dinner to the MDA and should
get the weekend meal schedule
from Jerry Darrell.

For anyone who has not had a
chance to make a donation, but
would still like to, a direct
phone line (tel. 463-7772) has
been established for those who

would like to phone in contribu-
tions.
Finally, Oast noted that

Washington Street in front of
the Student Center will be clos-
ed to traffic during the
weekend. A valid ID must be
shown at the door to get into the
dance and the public is invited
to “a good time for a good
cause,’’ Oast said.
,

Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1983

 

-

Letters

 

 

No justice in
honor trials

To the Editor

As I am writing this, I am
thinking that as you are reading
this, an honor trial will be tak-
ing place in Lewis Hall. This let-
ter is about the justice (or lack
thereof) at Washington and
Lee.

Those who know me are
aware that I am strongly in
favor of abolishing the Honor
Code. My reason is that I feel
that justice is never served in a
trial as it is presented at W&L.
Just as one example, in the last
trial, one may remember a test.
Anyone who knows federal
evidence rules knows that that
test may not be admitted as
evidence (and therefore no ref-
erences may be made to it). As
I guessed, neither the
“lawyers” nor the ‘‘judge’’
knew about evidence laws.
“And besides, they don’t apply
here.”” If they don’t, they
should. These rules are to pro-
tect the innocent until proven
guilty, then these rules should
2 in effect. Besides, in the case
of appeals of honor trial convic-
tions, those laws DO go into ef-
fect.

Let us assume that one is
wrongly convicted (as does oc-
casionally happen). What
becomes of the convictee? If he
is a senior, his life is ruined. Try
getting a job and answering, ‘‘If
you have enough credits, why
didn’t you graduate?’ The
same applies for transfers. Pro-
ponents state that. some
students have transferred and
have become successful doctors
and lawyers, Phi Beta Kappa,
and all that jazz. If they did,
then they should never have
been convicted. Obviously,
something is wrong.

I also believe that if the defen-
dant wins his case, the original
plaintiff should be brought up
on honor charges — after all,
one of them is lying. Perhaps
even both. As for the Executive
Committee’s representation of

Mussorgsky’s stirring drama,
“Boris Godunov,’ will be
broadcast live from the
Metropolitan Opera House on
Saturday January 29, at 1:30
p.m. over WLUR-FM (91.5),
Washington and Lee’s campus
radio station. A music critic
wrote recently: ‘‘The
Metropolitan Opera’s landmark
production of Mussorgsky’s
‘Boris Godunov’ returned in
splendor ... and is even more
compelling and successful now
than when it was first presented
in 1974 ... This ‘Boris’ is a
fabulous production and one of

 

the plaintiff’s case, the officers
of the EC may be brought up on
various charges in a real court,
were a previous ruling over-
turned. However, little more
may be done.

There is also the question of
an unbiased trial. In one trial,
one-fifth of the student body
was on vacation! In another,
half the jury was law students!
That’s not exactly a jury of
one’s peers. The ‘‘judge”’ in our
trial today is a sub-normal law
student. He knows little of the
real-world law, and I certainly
hope that he can’t get a job after
he graduates. He certainly has
no reason for being SBA presi-
dent. As for the “lawyers,” a
strong case may be made for
outside attorneys. The students
who represent both sides usual-
ly consider the trial a game, a
challenge, a toy. They do not
realize that they are dealing
with someone’s life.

Abolishing a _ student-run
honor system is a viable solu-
tion. I have seen half of the EC
commit honor violations during
some time during my stay here.
In high school and here in col-
lege, I know that honor systems
do not work. They cannot. Stu-
dents are, for the most part, too
young to handle the respon-
sibilities of - self-government.
Those who are in office are only
there for the resume, for some
career in business, or for some
career in politics. However, the
Executive Committee should
not be a testing ground for some
underachievers. The professors
are better judges of cheaters
than students are. I say, let
them handle a problem in their
own way, either by deduction of
points on an assignment or by
automatic failure. Better that
way than in a kangaroo court,
where there is absolutely no
chance of justice one way or the
other.

William W. Berghel
83

 

... Notes .--

the grandest of music dramas.
Don’t miss it.”’

During the first intermission,
“Opera News on the Air,’’ pro-
fessor of music Siegmund
Levarie will discuss ‘Boris
Godunov” and the Russian
czars.

White Book

revisions

Students with suggestions for
White Book revisions are in-
vited to submit them to the EC.
They can be left at the EC office
or with Carole Chappell.

 

 

WEL tradition

 

Where is Betty Mohler?

(Editor’s Note: This letter ad-
dressed to President Wilson was
also sent to the Phi for publica-
tion.)

Dear President Wilson:

From my first day at Wash-
ington and Lee University, one
word, one concept, above all
others became the primary
symbol, for me at least, of
every ideal our university
upheld. This word, concept or
belief, whichever you choose to
name it, is TRADITION—one of
the strongest foundations of
W&L; a ‘“‘column”’ of strength
far more substantial than the
Colonnade or the visible sup-
ports which uphold our univer-
sity. Whether the topic of
discussion is our Honor System,
the historic beauty of our cam-
pus, or the warmth and concern
of our Administration and
Faculty, traditions are definite-
ly a part of W&L which we
students should always be able
to call ‘‘ours.”’

As a student who admires,
believes, and lives by the “W&L
Tradition” I’m worried. If re-
cent small, but significant,
changes in Washington Hall
prove prophetic, then ‘“Tradi-
tions”’ may not always be an in-
tegral part of Washington and
Lee.

Have you been in Washington
Hall lately? Where is “‘B.J.?”
Where is Mrs. Mohler? This
question has been popping-up a
great deal lately, I have no idea
why the administration has
deprived students, professors,
and visitors alike of her smile
and welcome which she extends
to all who enter Washington
Hall. Indeed, the switching of
secretaries’ offices is no
business of mine. But I do know
that the space which once serv-
ed as the university’s most val-
uable public relations center is
now devoid of any warmth or
welcome. The entrance to
Washington Hall serves merely
as a showcase for ancient bowls

J and plates or vaguely ap-

preciable representations of
modern art — cold like a
museum. Yet, this is a small in-
cident of little significance?

I’ve always appreciated the
concern which our Admimistra-
tion has shown and our campus
has always seemed beautiful—a
climate conducive to the Honor
System and Traditions we
uphold. I suppose Betty Mohler
simply represented, for me
anyway, all those values rolled
into one charming, beautiful,
and honest lady. From her van-
tage point in Washington Hall
she confirmed for many, on a
daily basis, all the Traditions
we believe in —an action above
and beyond her ‘‘call to duty.”’

You know, professors and of-
ficials still speak as they pass
during the day and I hold on to
the Honor System even more
than I did yesterday. I wonder if
I’m over reacting. Yet I can see

and feel, every time I go into
Washington Hall, that some-
thing important, vitally impor-
tant, is missing. It seems as if
some of the warmth and con-
cern, once an_ all-important
Tradition at W&L, has now been
removed for the sake of ...
We’ve lost one small piece of
“W&L’s Tradition’ and _ it’s
possible, in time, that other
Traditions may be taken from
us also.

When I walk down the cor-
ridor of Washington Hall it’s dif-
ferent now. I look at the coldly
quiet exhibits and remember
when traditions and smiles
were an accepted part of the
W&L Tradition. Then I listen to
my footsteps echo in the silence
as I walk on through,

Sincerely,
Ruben Ray Hudson, Jr.
Class of ’85

 

Ring-tum Phi

Editor-in-Chief... c. 0. ccc cccececseccccvees
Business Manager..............0seeeeeees
Managing Editor ................0cc cece
ee rrr rr erty ane
DO 6 ks 66.6 6:0 60 05h 0 000409 banter
Assistant Sports Editor ..............0.000
Head Photographer .................00005
PROGRPEOROIE i ciiccccccccececcovecnceses

Entertainment Editor ..................4.
Assistant Entertainment Editor............
TROOP oon EECA 0 id Ree vies

 

Dees keve FOLGE URED OCEL ES Bill Roberts
£466 OEE EN EEOH AO Steve Perry
boioen0eeii (eke Evans Attwell
PULL UAV OELIVN bese eeh bade Jim Laurie

bel ceed Ee a be AOR Dave Stevens
foi ee Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

puhed 40000606 bebthoekes ‘....+ Paul Casey
So ee Tere re rou e David W. Johnston
ep 004 Mike Allien, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

John Cleghorn, John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,
Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter, Allen Roberts,

Advertising Manager ..................06:
Ca er Are nye ore

pe ve errey yee erry
OEY 6 6s. bh Gs 6 0 054 csas cake

Rob Schlegal, Rick Swagler, B. Scott Tilley
(eees soadenbbest er beaaabee Tom O'Brien
badeensTi Geiss Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Huston, Tim Mulreany, Jim Wood

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum

Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run, This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity,
Military Future

War with hi-tech

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi Staff Writer

High-technology will be the
key to war in the future, accord-
ing to Lt. Gen. Paul Gorman
who spoke at Virginia Military
Institute last Thursday night.

Gen. Gorman, a 1950 grad-
uate of the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point, and a
former special officer in the
Central Intelligence Agency is
currently the special assistant
to the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff.

Gorman said that the spe-
cialization of industry in the
United States would require
that the U.S. have allies in
Europe and North East Asia.
Because U.S. industry is begin-
ning to concentrate on building
high-technology equipment, it is
cheaper for the U.S. to buy
ships from Poland or South
Korea than to build them.

“We need leaders who can
cope with the problems of spe-
cialized weapon systems,” Gor-
man told the crowd of more
than 150.

In the past, the Defense
Department has had trouble
with waste and overspending.
This was evident with both the
TRX-111 and C-5A Air Force
contracts of the past. In these
cases, there was a total of near-
ly 2.5 billion dollars in waste
and cost-overruns.

When asked how the Defense
Department would cope with
the waste that might accom-
pany the expensive new spe-
cialized systems, Gorman
replied, ‘With great difficulty.”

“If you think you’ve seen
waste in the old systems, wait
until the new ones come out,”

 

Gorman said.

Gorman referred to the press
several times as neoLuddites,
‘trying to wreck new ships and
tanks programmatically.’’ Lud-
dites were workers in the early
1800s who destroyed textiles
machinery because’ they
thought mechanization would
result in diminished employ-
ment.

Gorman was very vocal in his
support of the MX/Peacekeeper
missile system. ‘During the
past year we have debated the
use of the MX. During that time
the Soviets have deployed 1400
warheads comparable to the
MX,” Gorman said.

Gorman was asked how he
felt about mutual investigation
as a means of controlling how
many warheads the Soviets
have. ‘I would be delighted to
put more trust in the Soviets,
but they are an utterly un-
trustworthy lot,’’ Gorman said.

With regard to manpower,
Gorman said that technology
has allowed fewer men to cover
a larger area. ‘“Your army is to-
day, manpower-lean,” Gorman
said.

This increased use of more
sophisticated technology will
create new problems, Gorman
said, but he asked for them to be
thought of as ‘‘growth pains.”’

‘Most of our problems with
high-technology will be with
dumb generals, not dumb pri-
vates. The privates won’t be us-
ing the equipment,” Gorman
said. ,

Gorman’s speech was spon-
sored by the International
Studies Program of the Depart-
ment of History and Politics at
VMI.

THE COCKPIT

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1983, Page 3

No-nukes speaker scheduled

sy B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Staff Writer

Dr. Roger C. Molander, ex-
ecutive director of the Ground
Zero nuclear awareness group
and author of Nuclear War:
What’s in it For You?, will
speak at Lee Chapel next Tues-
day night as part of the Contact
speaker series.

Molander served on the Na-
tional Security staff in the
White House from 1974 to 1981,
under the administrations of
Nixon, Ford, and Carter. His
principal duties included strate-
gic nuclear policy issues. He
chaired the committee which
prepared all of the analytical
material for the SALT negotia-
tions.

Before that, he was employed
in the Defense Department.

Ground Zero is an organiza-
tion that calls for international
publicity and national debate on
nuclear issues. Known as an
anti-nuclear weapons group,
Ground Zero’s basic strategy is
to educate both candidates and
citizens about the threat of
nuclear war and how to ap-
proach the problems of preven-
ting it.

Molander will be the first
speaker in Contact’s attempt to
reestablish itself after a much-
maligned fall term. The group
recently received compliments
though from the Executive
Committee for the effort being
put into this term.

 

Dr. Roger C. Molander
(Contact photo)

 

Jass Concert in Roanoke

The Preservation Hall Jazz
Band, the New Orleans musi-
cians who have traveled the
world playing the famous music
they created decades ago, will
hold a concert on Thursday,
Feb. 3, at 8 p.m. in the Roanoke
Civic Center Auditorium.

““Jass”’ — as it was originally
called — is a creative amalgam
of marches, quadrilles, blues,
spirituals and ragtime. It’s
music these very men drew
from the saloons, the streets
and the river boats when this
century was still young.

Although most of the musi-
cians are over sixty, their
music is bright, young, filled
with spirit and played with tech-
nical excellence.

Members of the band who will
play here are Alfred (Father
Al) Lewis, George (Kid Sheik)

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UMIVERSITY

 

* PRE-GAME HAPPY HOUR 2-6:30 x
CHEAPEST BEER IN TOWN

DURING THE GAME

 

 

Reduced Beer Prices

Bottled Beer Specials — All Green Bottles

At a Special Price

Hot Pretzels & Fresh Roasted Peanuts Available
Hot Dogs 2/$1.00 Chili Dogs $.75

 

 

COME SEE YOUR TEAM ON THE
COCKPITS WIDE SCREEN TV

 

Crusto, Kimball Jeannette,
Alonzo Stewart, and James C.
Prevost most of whom were
born before 1915.

Young and old audiences
alike are excited by the univer-
sal appeal of this irresistable

music.

Tickets for this memorable
concert are available at the
Roanoke Civic Center Box Of-
fice, All Heironimus Stores, and
Paper and Paperbacks in
Lynchburg.

French actor to read

The department of romance
languages at Washington and
Lee University and the Alliance
Francaise of Lexington will pre-
sent prominent French actor
Eric Chartier in a series of
dramatic readings in French on
Thursday, February 3, at 7:30
p.m. in duPont Auditorium.

The presentation is open to
the public at no charge.

Chartier will read from works
by Moliere, Racine, Diderot,
and Baudelaire, to name only a

   
    

Formal Application
Due Feb. 8th
for the position of
Editor in Chief
of the
Ring-tum Phi

ORC A a ACR

Submit qualifications in writing to
Carol Chappel in the Student Center.

Interviews by the Publications Board
will take place Feb. 9th at 7:00 p.m. in
Student Center Room 205.

few.

Chartier played the role of
d’Artagnan in the Comedie
Francaise production of
“Cyrano de Bergerac”’ and per-
formed in the Theatre National
Populaire production of Clau-
del’s ‘‘L’Histoire de Tobi et de
Sara.” He has also taken prin-
cipal roles in the original pro-
duction of Arrabal’s ‘‘Laby-
rinthe’”’ and, most recently, in
Wechter’s “L’Ecole des
Clowns.”’

a a a

a a a a ti i aii ae
ee ae

 

a
SE ee

»
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1983

 

 

Reviews:

Fagen’s latest is a welcome change

By JOHN RILEY
Phi Staff Writer

With the release of ‘The
Nightfly,’’ Donald Fagen has
emerged as one of the very best
composers and arrangers in
contemporary music, and the
album’s success on the charts in
recent weeks is a reassuring
sign that, even with the current
glut of electronic novelties and
screaming distortion, there is
still a market for carefully
crafted, understated music.

“The Nightfly” is Fagen’s
first solo album without his
longtime songwriting and per-
forming partner, Walter
Becker. Fagen and Becker
were the nucleus of the very
popular recording group, Steely
Dan, and “The Nightfly” car-
ries on the Steely Dan sound,

mostly through Fagen’s distinc-
tive and engaging vocals.
Fagen is one of a select few who
can boast a unique, recogniza-
ble vocal style, and his singing
on this new album is every bit
as good as on any of the Steely
Dan albums. What ‘‘The Nightf-
ly” lacks that Steely Dan had
are the ambiguous lyrics and
obscure word jokes. that
sometimes made Steely Dan
seem pretentious.

Fagen says in his liner notes,
“The songs on this album repre-

‘sent certain fantasies that

might have been entertained by
a young man growing up in the
remote suburbs of a northeast-
ern city during the late fifites
and early sixties, ie., one of my
general height, weight, and

build.”” Most of the album
adheres to this theme, produc-
ing some creative and amusing
flashbacks to another era.
“1.G.Y. (International Geophy-
sical Year),’”’ the single from
the album, opens side one with a
tongue-in-cheek essay on the
benefits of future technology.
‘Here at home we'll play in the
city. Powered by the sun,
perfect weather for a streamlin-
ed world, There’ll be Spandex
jackets, One for everyone.” A
synthesizer blues harp solo by
Fagen and a horn section led by
Randy and Micheal Brecker
highlight ‘‘I.G.Y.,”” which is
probably the catchiest tune on
the album.

“The Nightfly’s’’ best
material is found on side two,

‘Bruce’. is an offensive bore

By TODD JONES
Special to the Phi
“They Call Me Bruce’ is
perhaps supposed to be to Kung

Fu movies what Airplane was to
disaster films. Perhaps not.
Whatever it is supposed to be,
“They Call Me Bruce’’ fails,
unless it aims to be an unenter-
taining, poorly made film, in
which case it succeeds. The
movie attempts to find its
humorous element by poking
fun at every ethnic group it can.

You know the film is in trou-
ble when, at the very beginning,
the star (Bruce), played by
Johnny Yune, is told that the
most important thing in life is
“‘broads.”’ He is then told there

is a woman in America who will
take care of him. Off he goes to
America, where, for some
strange reason, we find him as
a cook for a mafioso chief.
Every actor in the mafia bunch
speaks with the fresh-off-the-
boat accent. (Whattsa matta? I
puncha you ina the nose!) It’s
ironic that Bruce, fresh from
China speaks better than any-
one else in the film. Well, Dumb
Bruce is employed by the mafia
to deliver cocaine all across the
United States. Bruce, however,
thinks it’s flour, which opens
the veiwer up to at least 15
“hilarious” episodes where
Bruce tries to give the “flour’’
to other mafioso chiefs, local

  

 

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This
Your Headquarters For

Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality

 

 

 

   

 

 

  
 
 

   
  
 
      

policemen, strangers, and
basically anyone that the film
director thought would make a
funny situation.

The screenplay, written by
Johnny Yune not only makes all
Italians look idiotic, but also
shows all Jews to be schmucks,
and all Blacks to be bouncing
fools carrying ghetto blasters or
bug-eyed evangelists. All small
town cops are hicks, and so on.
The movie’s not only not funny
but it is also insulting.

To cap it all off, the conclu-
sion is patriotic enough to make
you sick. Bruce finally finds the
lady in America who will take
care of him, and it is the Statue

 

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO
23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

CS Se ee Se Se Se SS SS rr tl tl el etl ee

Visit The

COCKPIT GAME ROOM

12 GREAT Games

JUNGLE KING ciat caer
LOST CAVEMAN
ELIMINATOR GALAXY GALAGA
WASHINGTON AND LEE CATACOMB DIG DUG LUNAR RESCUE
UNIVERSITY PLUS 4 POOL TABLES

ATTENDANT ON DUTY AFTER 2:00 P.M. EVERY DAY

FREE VIDEO GAME
Offer Good through Feb. 2, 1983

Coupon good through Feb. 11, 1983
One Per Customer Per Purchase

| ll

pom ———« THISWEEK’S SPECIAL 4 °————=
| Buy a Cockpit Sandwich and Drink and get a Coupon for a l

SSS a ee ee en el Fl cl el cl atc al al Rael ll le

aes

     
    
  

  
  

ct

  

te tin

 
     
       
    
        

ee ae anti, tn atl att St a eel

atl atl tl tana att tte

 

    
 
 
 

 
 

 
     
       

     

 

which opens with ‘‘The New
Frontier,” a dancy tale of a
summer bomb shelter party,
with appropriate 1960’s im-
agery. ‘“‘We’ve got provisions
and lots of beer, The key word is
survival on the new frontier,”
sings Fagen, and ‘Introduce
me to that big blond, She’s got a
touch of Tuesday Wells.’’ Next
is the title track, the lament of a

late night jazz DJ featuring
strong mming by Jeff Por-

caro of Toto and a solo by
veteran studio guitarist Larry
Carlton. ‘‘The Goodbye Look’”’
describes the plight of an
American stuck in Cuba during
the Castro revolt in Latin
rhythm and percussion. The un-
fortunate tourist notices that,
“The rules are changed, it’s not
the same, It’s all new players in

a whole new ball game’’ and
finally, ‘‘I know what happens, I
read the book, I believe I just
got the goodbye look.” ‘The
Nightfly” closes with ‘Walk
Between the Raindrops,”’ a sur-
prisingly lightweight, eight-to-
the-bar song of two lovers ina
Miami rainstorm, with lively
organ soloing by Donald Fagen.

Sometimes the craftsmanship
which makes “‘The Nighfly’’ so
enjoyable results in overconser-
vatism, until you wish one of the
famous and talented studio
musicians on the album would
let loose and rip out a hot solo,
but it is an excellent record
throughout and will bear re-
peated listening. “‘The Nightfly
is a beacon of professionalism
in the murky fog of today’s
music industry.

.. Stay away

of Liberty! Yes, friends, Ameri-
ca herself will take care of all
the stupid drug-smuggling
Chinese cooks that stagger onto
Staten Island. To finish the film,
The Statue of Liberty talks to us
and Bruce; telling us not only
how wonderful America is, but
also not to forget about the
broads. What laughs

This horrible film was
directed by Elliot Hong and
should be avoided at all costs.
One note needs to be given to
Tommy Vig, who wrote the
theme song which had such
endearing lyrics as ‘Oriental
boy, listen to your heart: look
out, don’t fall down.’’ Ugh! One
star.

 

Rock concerts

 

Jan.
27 Missing Persons (Sold Out)

1 Adam Ant

6 Tom Petty

7 Meatloaf

8 Marshall Tucker Band

13 Pat Benatar

14 Warren Zevon, Solo

15 Bob Seger

16 Bette Midler

18 Ozzy Osbourne

20 Phil Collins

22 Neil Young, Solo Acoustic
2 Eric Clapton

27 Chuck Mangione

Wax Museum, Washington DC

‘Chrysler Hall, Norfolk
Charlotte Coliseum, NC
Capitol Center
Chrysler Hall, Norfolk

Greensboro Coliseum, NC
The Bayou, Washington, DC
Roanoke Civic Center
William and Mary
Charlotte Coliseum, NC

Warner Theatre, Washington, DC

Baltimore Civic Center
Capitol Center
Chrysler Hall, Norfolk

 

Blood drive Tuesday

The Washington and Lee
University chapter of Chi Psi
social fraternity and the
American Red Cross will spon-
sor a blood drive on Tuesday,
February 1, from 11 a.m. to 5
p.m. in Doremus Gymnasium
on the W&L campus.

Reservations are not
necessary but may be made by
calling 463-9111, Ext. 299.

According to officials of the
Chi Psi Fraterniry, two recent
campus visits by the Red Cross
Bloodmobile were extremely
successful with more than 200

donors taking part in the drive
last February and a similar
event last October resulting in
130 percent of the Red Cross
quota for the day. '

Chi Psi is offering a prize of
two kegs of beer to the fraterni-
ty(s) or athletic team(s) that
has/have the greatest percen-
tage of participation in the
blood drive. Additionally,
Coach Miller has agreed to
allow any Physical Education
student who donates blood to
receive one extra cut from the
Physical Education class in
which he is currently enrolled.
The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1983, Page 5

 

Poet reads Tuesday

The Glasgow Endowment
Committee at Washington and
Lee University will present the
first in a series of readings by
prominent American poets
when Robert Pack reads from
his works. on Tuesday, Febru-
ary 1, at 4 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium of the University
Library.

The reading is free and open
to the public.

The Glasgow Committee’s
poetry series will include
readings by Anthony Hecht,
poetry consultant to the Library
of Congress, in March and
Howard Moss, poetry editor of
the New Yorker, in April.

Pack is a 1951 graduate of
Dartmouth College with a
master’s degree from Columbia
University. He is currently
Abernethy Professor of
American Literature at Mid-
dlebury College, where he has
taught for 16 years.

He has been the director of
the Bread Loaf Writers’ Con-
ference since 1973 and is a
former Fulbright Fellow.

 

Pack: is the author of seven
volumes of poetry with an
eighth volume, “Faces In A
Single Tree,” to be published
this year.

His poems have received
critical acclaim. Of one of
Pack’s more recent volumes,
“Waking to My Name,” for in-
stance, Hecht has _ written:
“These poems, quietly but firm-
ly spoken, find a center in
hearth and heart. Often enough
they are sponsored by moods of
gratitude and elation, such as
might be addressed in other
forms and times to gods of the
home and the natural land-
scape.”

Pack, who has won several
important awards for his
poetry, is the author of an early
study of Wallace Stevens and
has edited several important
anthologies.

The Glasgow Endowment
Committee was established by
the 1960 bequest of Arthur
Graham Glasgow ‘‘to promote
the art of expression by pen and
tongue.’

W&L Calendar

 

January

27 Recital: Soloand Chamber Music. DuPont Auditorium. Free. 8

p.m.

28 W&L MD Superdance. $5 for individuals, $8 for couples. Evans

Dining Hall. 8 p.m.

29 W&L MD Superdance Continues
31 Film: Man of Aran. Reid Hall, room 203. Free. 7 p.m.
Film: Shakespeare Series: Measure for Measure Northen

Auditorium. Free. 7 p.m.

February
1 Cruisimatics in the Cockpit

Film: Animal Farm Commerce School Building, room 327. Free.

7p.m.

Lecture: Roger Molander, founder and director of Ground Zero.

Lee Chapel. 8 p.m.

2 Film Animal Farm. Dupont Auditorium. Free. 7 p.m.

 

ney

(continued from page 1)

petitive there, and that tends to
take any enjoyment out of col-
lege and make it a routine,”
Baey said. “In the U.S. you
must take certain courses
before the major work unlike in
Singapore where you specialize
in one subject from your
freshman year on.

At first at W&L, I thought
‘Why take sociology, psy-
chology, and religion?’ I want to
take economics and business
courses.’ But now I see the
value of a liberal arts educa-
tion.”

Baey also sees a difference
between the students’ attitudes
here and in Singapore.

“The difference is mostly in ©

how we interact here, what is
talked about at parties,’ Baey
said. ‘‘In Singapore, the univer-
sity is purely academic.
Students live at home, not on a
campus. There are no frats or
anything of that sort.”

The informality of many pro-
fessors in and out of the
classroom is also a big dif-
ference for Baey.

“There, you call the instruc-
tor ‘Sir’ or Professor’’ before
addressing any question. Here,
itis very different. I found it dif-

Foreign student Seng-Kah “
Stevens)

ficult to relate to a professor the
first year. I was very formal
with them. I really couldn’t be
comfortable around them after
being in the army.” Henry said.

Henry’s understanding of
American culture has been
helped by his joining the Chi Psi
fraternity.

“The most important thing is
to understand the different
mentalities of life here. Joining
a frat helps. You get into a tight-
knit group and you get to know a
variety of personalities,’ he ex-
plained.

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

BUY EARLY — SAVE!

Book Your Holiday Travel Before Flights Fill Up.

Make Plans For February Break

4!

Sen)
name y !

SENIORS!

& Ask For Good Deals
About Nassau!

LL
463-7174

 

ATTENTION

February is the month to order
your caps and gowns. Watch for
dates and times in the next issue of
the Phi.

 

Henry”’

   

    

   

  

Ba BE
&
ie: He

in

Baey (Phi

“I have stayed at W&L for
four years instead of transfer-
ring to a school with a larger
foreign student body because

my original intention in coming |
to school in America was to un-
derstand the different Ameri-
can mentalities and outlooks of
the world — good or bad — so it

would be an asset to me in my
future dealings with Americans

when I return to Singapore. I’m
glad I stayed the whole time,”’
he said.

For your Valentine
card, gift or plant,
come to

Suzy’s

Old Main Street Mall

8-Packs, 16-0z.
Pepsi and Cokes

$1.79

With every
carton purchased
of Pepsis or Cokes
we will donate 25°

to the Muscular

Dystrophy

Superdance.
With your help
we can help others.

PODOOODOODE

WE WELCOME
STUDENT CHARGES.

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1983

Roanoke ends streak;
Generals win two, 12-3

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Roanoke College halted the
Washington and Lee basketball
team’s winning streak at nine
last Thursday, but the Generals
rebounded to defeat Lynchburg
College Saturday and Eastern
Mennonite College Tuesday to
raise their Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference record to 5-2
and their overall mark to 12-3.

While the Generals exploded
to an early lead against Roa-
noke, the Maroons fought back
to claim a _ 92-89 victory.
However, it took three overtime
periods for Roanoke, ranked se-
cond nationally in Division III,
to finally put the Generals
away.

‘We played a hell of a game,”’
W&L Coach Verne Canfield
asserted. ‘“‘We could not have
played a whole lot better than
that. It was a credit to the
starters who played with their
hearts.”

W&L got off to a super start
as junior Billy Yates canned a
three point play ten seconds into
the game. With 14:04 to play,

Brian Hanson’s basket expand-
ed the Generals lead to 20-6, and
the Generals held an impres-
sive 41-29 lead as the first half
ended.

Momentum shifted to Roa-
noke in the second half as the
Maroons’ Reggie Thomas fuel-'
ed their steady comeback with
his deadly outside shooting.
Shane Abernaty’s basket at
11:57 of the half gave Roanoke
its first lead of the night at 53-52.

After the lead had changed
hands several times down the’
stretch, the Generals found
themselves trailing 69-67 with 18
seconds to play. Senior Frank
Eppes tossed in a clutch basket
for the Generals with eight
seconds left to send the contest
into overtime.

W&L never led in any of the
three overtime periods. The
Generals were always in the
unenviable position of having to
tie the game up in the closing
seconds to extend the game
another five minutes.

“They showed a tremendous
amount of character,’ stated
Canfield of his team’s effort in
the overtime periods.

ST LEX

BUD 12 PACKS. $459

 

 

FOOD

 

STORES

OPEN 24 HOURS
113 North Main St.

Beer, Snacks, Cigarrettes, Gas
And Much More!

 

 

9p a ca ae ee RS a HE YM
} FREE :
# 120z.FountainDrink 4
. with this coupon i
: 1 per customer ;
a Expires 2/12/83 ai

Some key points in critical
situations kept the Generals
alive through the first two over-
time periods. In the first over-
time period Hanson hit two foul
shots with 1:42 to play to tie the
game at 75-75, and the Generals
kept Roanoke off the score-
board for the remaining time.
In the second overtime Yates
hit an incredible three point
bucket with only seven seconds
left to tie the game at 83-83.

The third overtime period
proved to be fatal for the
Generals though. Trailing 90-89
with 13 seconds left, the
Generals made a crucial turn-
over that allowed Roanoke
seconds later to increase its
lead to 92-89 on a pair of free
throws. This time Yates’ three
point attempt in the closing
seconds missed the mark and
time ran out on W&L.

W&L got balanced scoring
from its starters with junior
John Lee Graves leading the at-
tack with 26 points. Yates hit for
25 points, Hanson for 25 points,
and Eppes for 12 points.

Although Coach Canfield

had been concerned that the
Generals might be a little slug-
gish following the disappoint-
ment against Roanoke, they
turned in a solid performance in
a 69-58 win Saturday at Lynch-
burg.
Forcing Lynchburg into 31
turnovers, W&L held a com-
manding lead throughout most
of the game. The Generals led
53-36 midway through the se-
cond half, and never allowed
Lynchburg to get any closer
than six points the rest of the
way.

“‘We played some of the best
team defense we've played this
year,”’ noted Canfield. ‘The
defense caused the turnovers.”’

Brian Hanson led the Gener-

als with 21 points and John Lee

 

~

W&L’s Frank K. Eppes hits a

 

crucial two of his 12 points against

Roanoke last Thursday night. Eppes’ basket sent the game into the
first of its three extra periods. The Maroons prevailed, 92-89,
however, to get their first victory in the Warner Center in three

years. (Phi photo by David Sprunt)

Graves and Frank Eppes con-
tributed 17 and 13 respectively.
Canfield reported that Graves
also played an _ outstanding
defensive game.

Tuesday night in the Warner
Center the Generals outlasted
Eastern Mennonite 79-71 in an
ODAC game.

W&L watched a 42-31 half
time lead evaporate into a 57-54
Eastern Mennonite lead with 7
minutes to play. However, the
Generals rallied to outscore the
Royals 25-14 the remainder of
the way to chalk up their fifth
league win.

Five Generals scored in dou-
ble figures with Billy Yates
leading the way with 19 points.
Brian Hanson added 17 points,
Frank Eppes 15, John Lee
Graves 11, and Lex Fitzenhagen
10.

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30
until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,

 

CPV ue rUR Re leie

Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, ~~ :

ONY
Et

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

 

Hamric & Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

463-2022

 

 

11 W. Nelson

 

BT

PHONE 463-7000

  

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia
3 aol

eo \

Chinese, Polynesian, and

W&L continues its ODAC
schedule tonight with a game at
Catholic University. W&L
defeated Catholic in December,
76-63, but the Cardinals upset
Roanoke College in Roanoke
Monday.

“It’s like playing in a zoo up
there from what I understand,”
warned Canfield. ‘‘They’re
rather vocal in their support of
the team.”’

Saturday night in the Warner
Center the Generals take on
Hampden-Sydney College in
another key ODAC game.

“It’s probably one of the
pivotal games in the ODAC this
year,” Canfield noted. “We
kind of feel that we owe them
one,”’ Canfield said in reference
to the fact that the Tigers
defeated W&L 69-67 in
November.

VARNER |
& POLE

 
   
        

 

American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 
 

  

 

 

 

A LOHA WOK (Sun. Buffet 12-2:30—$4.25 |

Open Tuesday through Sunday

““Carry-out Available”’

 

  

   
 

Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10
Closed Saturday Luncheon

   
 
 
Dual matches

The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1983, Page 7

Upsets highlight weekend

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

The hard work and personal
sacrifices of the W&L swim
team finally paid off in a pair of
upset victories that Coach Page
Remillard had been looking for.
The Generals traveled to West
Virginia on Friday night where
they picked up a 60-40 triumph
over Shepherd College and
returned home Saturday to
defeat the Hoyas of George-
town, 60-47.

“T’m satisfied with the wins,’’
remarked the fourth-year head
coach. All was not perfect,
though, for Remillard noted
that he was ‘‘dissapointed with
some swimmers.” Remillard
saw Jay Kendall and David
Lewis as not performing up to
their potential.

On the other side of the coin,
however, Remillard cited a host
of swimmers as turning in fine
efforts. Juniors Tim Rock and
Gary Meyer (whose consisten-
cy continues), sophomore
Taber Smith, and freshmen
Tim Standford and John Moody
were named by the W&L men-
tor.

“These wins reward the
swimmers for their preparation
and personal sacrifices in team
dual meets,’’ Remillard said.
He also noted that the Generals’
win-loss record is better than he
could have expected at this
point. ,

“It’s been a very successful
season,’’ commented the W&L
swim coach. Remillard explain-
ed, however, that ‘‘the em-
phasis will shift from the team
to the individual’ as the team
enters what the coach termed
“the most exciting part of the
season.”

SNA

WEL

Casper

=

“From now on, it’s a whole
new season,’”’ said Remillard,
referring to the fact that the
Generals will now be concen-
trating on their individual
strengths as they point to the
UNC-Wilmington Invitational
(February 17-19) and the Divi-
sion III Championships in Can-
ton, Ohio (March 17-19).

‘‘We’re a championship
team,”’ stated the coach, point-
ing to the Generals’ fine record
in Nationals, scoring in each of
the last seven years.

Saturday the Generals con-
tinue their dual meét season as
they travel to Williamsburg for
a meet against William and
Mary.

Quad this weekend

 

POOLSIDE: Moody led those
outstanding performances as
took first in both Friday’s and
Saturday’s 1000-yard free along
with his participation in win-
ning 400 free relays. For his ser-
vices Friday, the freshman was
named ‘‘Swimmer of the Meet”
by his teammates. Gary Meyer
was equally astounding with his

Generals place second in

By CHRIS FULTON
Special to the Phi

The weekend may have been
dismal for expectant road trip-
pers, but it was quite bright for
Coach Gary Franke and the
W&L wrestling squad. Led by
freshman Larry Anker and
sophomore Jeff Dixon, W&L
captured second place in the
fifth annual Washington and
Lee Invitational Saturday, edg-
ing out Lynchburg College by a
half-point.

“A lot of place-winners, that’s
what you need to do well as a
team in this kind of tourna-
ment,” said Franke, and that is
exactly what the Generals
achieved. W&L placed eight
wrestlers; one first-place
finish, one second, three thirds
and three fourths.

Larry Anker, ‘‘wrestling up to
his potential” according to
Franke, ploughed through se-
cond, third and first place seeds
respectively to win the 134. lb.
division. Anker, who was wor-
ried about his slow starts, was
quick enough to compile double-
digit victories over each of his
opponents; 18-5 over Catawba’s

qAly

©
4; Lys vw
with

THE SKIP CASTRO BAND

Red Ball Jets

Register to Dance NOW
Carole Chappell’s Office — University Center

Washington and Lee University’s

5th Annual

Muscular Dystrophy Superdance
January 28, 29, 30, 1983

DANCE FOR THOSE WHO CAN'T!

SIH

wrestler 14-5 over Pfeiffer’s en-
try and 11-5 over Lynchburg’s
Dave Cordone in the title mat-
ch. Cordone had beaten Anker
earlier in the season but this
time Anker had him  out-
conditioned “He simply wanted
it more,” Franke added.

Classmate Win Phillips plac-
ed second in the 158 lb. division,
losing to David O’Hanna of
Lynchburg 5-3 in an evenly mat-
ched, cautiously fought contest.
The first points scored were
warnings given to both
wrestlers.

Sophomore Jeff Dixon (190
lb.) junior Tim White (down to
150 lbs. for the first time this
season), and freshman Jim
Foley were each victorious in
the consolation finals for the
third-place laurels. Dixon
defeated his Longwood adver-
Sary 5-2, White put his Lyn-
chburg opponent’s shoulders to
the mat and Foley controlled
his Davidson opponent for a 14-0
decision. Junior captain Tim
Valliere (167 lb.), classmate
Carlton Peebles (unlimited)
and freshman Brian Lifsted
(118 lb.) achieved fourth place
finishes to round out the

Longest
Party

Steps

SoH

Generals’ scoring.

Elon College won the tourna-
ment compiling 74.25 points and
four champions. W&L finished
second with 53.25 followed by
Longwood (52.75), Catawba
(48.5) Pfeiffer (46), Davidson
(37.75), Lynchburg (34.25) and

wins in the 100-yard free (Fri-
day and Saturday), the 50 free
(Friday), and a ‘‘tremendous
anchor leg in the 400 free
relay,’’ Remillard said. Other
victories were posted by Rock
(200 and 500 free) and Stanford
(200 IM and 200 fly). In all the
Generals won 17 of the 18 events
they entered.

tourney

Hampden-Sydney who did not
score.

Davidson and Hampden-
Sydney return along with
Loyola College to Lexington this
Saturday to compete in a qua-
drangular (round robin com-
petition) beginning at 1 p.m.

 

 

a

IN

The Cockpit
W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

CRUISIMATICS

i Al

uccdays

   

ee Ae le ee ee ee ee ee ce

 

Se ae a ai a i a a il a ee oe ee a el ee el a el ee el a

 

 

February: 4

 

 

“It's The Place To Be”

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1983

PALMS Opera NOUSE |

   

Great Food Need Not Be Expensive

Bar Burger 75°

DELI SANDWICHES
WaTOiOe 20656 8 LG ee 90
MS sc eeise ss 6 5 2.49
Me 3. aS ee 2.45
HOt FORUM ook iceies 058s 2.45
TWEE is CRASS 1.45
Chicken Salad...............000000s 1.45
MEXICAN
| ne eee eee en 1.25
Taco.....40 3for....1.95
Cheese Nachos ..............c.eceees 1.85
Nacho Cheese Dip & Chips ........... 1.85

Soft Drinks & Drafts 50¢

Blues Burger 85°
SANDWICHES
fake es wie on 2.29
TOE os eb ees 6 1 eee Rs 1.95
Pee. See ee: 1.15
I sees ora ca Ase MAGEE 1.25
PINE TWN en 5 A Re 2.15
Grilled Cheese ................c008: 1.00
HOUSE FAVORITES
COTS BUNT hE eS 2.29
PURO TE os as vce carp eas 2.49
Black Bean Soup.................000. 90
COPA ING 2 os Senin ce ee a 2.95

During Lunch

35¢ Drafts 5-8 Daily

THE ONLY DANCE IN TOWNINT
BANDS

 

einsanseieeis RECORDS

 

     

CORNER4” —

MARGARET & MARY'S
Selected Stock Sale

$5®9 on LP’s

WED- FRI -SAT

LEXINGTON DRY GOODS COMPANY

NOW IN STOCK

100% Cotton Oxford
Button Down Shirts by
Kenneth Gordon of New Orleans
and Nantucket

For those who want a better button down.

SALE ON WINTER MERCHANDISE CONTINUES.
ISSUE MISNUMBERED

 

VOLUME 82

EC urges defeat of
drinking age bill -

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi EC Correspondent

When Washington and Lee
talks, the Virginia Senate
listens.

At least that is what the Ex-
ecutive Committee was hoping
when they voted Monday night
to send a telegram to Lieute-
nant Governor Dick Davis urg-
ing defeat of the bill to raise the
drinking age for beer to 21.

The EC also recognized an
Ultimate Frisbee team allotting
it $185 and heard budget reports
from the Emergency Loan
Committee and the Ring-tum
Phi.

Morgan Griffith, vice-
president, suggested the
telegram after president Ben-
nett Ross informed the commit-
tee of the proposed bill. The
measure would raise the legal
age for consumption of beer,
both on- and off-premises, to 21.
It passed the House of
Delegates 71-27 last week.

Most of the discussion

centered around the possibility
of having the W&L campus
designated a closed environ-
ment, similar to a military
base. If that were the case,

 

— &

NUMBER 18

   

648

students under 21 could drink
beer at the Cockpit or at SAB-
sponsored events.

However, that loophole may
not be included in the final ver-
sion of the bill, which the Senate
was expected to vote on this
week,

First-year law representative
John Sicilian was the only
member to vote against the
telegram on the grounds that it
is ‘‘a waste of money that is not
going to do any good.”

The Ultimate Frisbee team is
being organized by senior Chris
Stokes and freshman David
Thompson. The two presented a
petition and a proposed $320
budget.

Following the precedent set
by the Rugby Club and the
Fencing Club, the EC
eliminated $135 designated for
jerseys and said members
should provide their own.

The money allocated by the
EC will provide for 15 frisbees,
a membership in the Ultimate
Players Frisbee Association,
phone calls and a trip by
Thompson to a_ regional
organizational meeting in
Philadelphia. A schedule of
local tournaments will be deter-

se

Professor William A. Jenks

  
   

mined at that meeting.

Senior Frank Eppes, chair-
man of the Emergency Loan
Committee, said that six loans
were still outstanding from last
year and seven from this year.

In addition, he recommended
the committee be restructured
to better meet the needs of
students. The EC decided to
look into a possible reorganiza-
tion.

Steve Perry, business
manager of the Ring-tum Phi
said the newspaper had over
$7,000 on hand. Also, he is going
to begin mailing the papers in
envelopes to subscribers.

In other action:

Sophomore Chris Williams
was appointed Voting Regula-
tions Board Chairman.

A forum for candidates for
president, vice president and
secretary of the EC will be held
on Tues., Feb. 22, in the Com-
merce School.

~The Mock Convention and
Student Association for Black
Unity were reprimanded for not
presenting budget reports. A
motion to freeze Mock Conven-
tion’s funds failed. SABU’s
funds have been frozen for four
weeks.

Profile

~“yY LIBRARY

= PIMA Ral
THE UNIVERS!.

 
  
 
  

The Big Three: (from left to right) EC vice president Morgan -

1 11983 A,

WASHINGTON LEE UNIVERSITY

-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia February 10, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

Griffith, president Bennett Ross and secretary Mike Singer.

FD Theme

An evening on
Ol’man river

The theme for this year’s
Fancy Dress Weekend will be
“Waiting for the Robert E.
Lee’’: An Evening Along. the
Mississippi, according to
Lanier Edge, chairman of the
Student Activities Board.

The festivities will begin
Thursday March 3, with a two
band party. An admission price
has not been set.

The Friday night Ball will
center around a steamboat trip

to places along the Mississippi.
Five bands will perform at the
Ball.

Tickets for the Ball will go on
sale Monday, Feb. 28, in the
University Center for $30 per
couple. They may be purchased
from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. and are
available only to members of
the W&L community. In addi-
tion, T-shirts, posters, and
grain cups will be sold.

Jenks reviews 36-year career

By MIKE SHELTON
Special to the Phi

Retiring Professor William A.
Jenks, chairman of Washington
and Lee’s history department,
cheered the Washington Red-
skins in Super Bow] XVII.

Dr. Jenks’ favorite team,
however, is the New York Jets.
“Walt Michaels was one of my
best students,’’ he said.

His 36-year teaching career
will conclude at the end of the
’82-’83 academic year. During
his tenure, Jenks has taught
such notables as Tom Wolfe,
Roger Mudd and former U.S.
Senator and Republican Party
National Chairman Bill Brook.

The professor himself gradu-
ated magna cum laude, Phi
Beta Kappa from W&L in 1939,
and was a member of the Sigma
Nu social fraternity. ‘Mc-
Crums’ drugstore was a
favorite hangout,’’ he

remembers. ‘‘It had a marvel-
ous soda fountain and a dining
room upstairs.”’

Jenks was one of the first
students at Washington and Lee
encouraged to follow a career in
European history, and enrolled
as a graduate student at Colum-
bia University, where he earned
his Masters’ degree in 1940, and
his Ph.D. in 1949,

In 1946 Jenks returned to
Washington and Lee as an in-
structor, after three and a half
years in the Army’s office of
Strategic Services, the precur-
sor to the C.I.A.

Elevated to department head
in 1970, in 1971 he he became the
university’s first William R.
Kenan, Jr. Professor of History.

Jenks is certainly the
“‘scholar-teacher of distinction’
that the Kenan Trust looked for.
An expert in Austrian history,
he has authored four books on
the subject, including The

Austrian Electoral Reform of
1907, Vienna and the Young
Hitler, Austria under the Iron
Ring, 1879-1893, and, most
recently, Francis Joseph and the
Italiana, 1978.

His student proteges in the
realm of history include Henry
Ashby Turner of Yale, Robert
Owen Paxton of Columbia, and
David Bien of the University of
Michigan, all former depart-
ment heads.

He has taught courses rang-
ing from the Renaissance to
Islamic history to imperial and
Soviet Russia. When asked his

favorite, Jenks replied,
“probably the imperial Russion
history course.”

Regarding the Andropov era,
Jenks predicted ‘“‘the period will
be much like the 70s under
Brezhnev — conservative. I
suspect they’re looking for a
way out of Afghanistan. That is

(continued on page 2)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1983

 

 

Student body
elections

To the Editor:

Due to a change in the Law
School calendar, elections for
President, Vice President, and
Secretary of the Student Body
will occur one week earlier than
as dictated by the Constitution
of the Student Body. The actual
election day will be Monday,
Feb. 28, 1983 with the run-off, if
necessary, scheduled for Thurs-
day, March 3. Petitions with 150
signatures will be due by 4 p.m.
on Tuesday, Feb. 22, and are re-
quired for a student’s name to
be placed on the ballot.

To facilitate the voting pro-
cess, an election forum, attend-
ed by all the candidates for Stu-
dent Body officers, will take
place on Tuesday, Feb. 22, at 4

p.m. in Room 221, the Com-
merce School. All candidates
who wish to have their name on
the ballot must bring their peti-
tion to this forum. Candidates
should be prepared to present
their views on the issues that
confront students at Washing-
ton and Lee and be able to
answer questions concerning
these views.

I would encourage all stu-
dents who are concerned and in-
terested in the quality of stu-
dent government to attend this
forum. It will be an excellent
opportunity to ask questions
and to gain a better understand-
ing of the candidates and their
positions.

Bennett Ross ’83C

 

 

-« Notes

I-Hsiung Ju
speaks

Washington and Lee art pro-
fessor I-Hsiung Ju was a guest
speaker for a session of the an-
nual conference of the Ameri-
can Association of Chinese
Studies recently.

Ju spoke as part of a panel on
“The Changing Society and the
Chinese Woman.” His presenta-
tion was entitled ‘Women
Sculptors in China Today.”

The conference was held in
Baltimore, Md.

McCaughrin
published

Craig McCaughrin, associate
professor of politics at Washing-
ton and Lee University, is the
author of an article published in
the January 1983 issue of ‘‘Com-
parative Political Studies.”’

The title of McCaughrin’s ar-
ticle is ‘Statics and Dynamics
of Dissent.’’ Research on the ar-
ticle was supported in part by a

ee **

grant from the National Science:
Foundation.

McCaughrin presented a
paper, “‘The Noetics of Political
Change,” at the International
Political Science Association
Congress in Rio de Janiero last
August.

McCaughrin joined the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty in 1981.
He previously served on the
faculty of the University of Pen-
nsylvania from 1973-1981.

Darrell

commended

Jerry Darrell, director of food
services at Washington and Lee
University, has been reap-
pointed chairman of the Oc-
cupational Foods Committee of
the Rockbridge VOTECH Ad-
visory Board. :

In addition, Darrell was cited
for his ‘‘professional efforts in
promoting high standards of
conduct and service in the Food
Service Industry”’ in a Letter of
Appreciation from the National
Association of College and
University Foods Services
Region II.

 

 

 

Jenks

_ (continued from page 1)
the reason they’ve allowed the
Poles to handle their own pro-
blems. It’s best that way.”’

Jenk’s students and classes
have given him great enjoy-
ment over the years, and he will
miss both very much. Several
years ago he turned down offers
to move onto the graduate level.
“TI prefer teaching undergradu-
ates,’”’ he says. Grading papers,
however, has become increas-
ingly tedious.

He remembers one particular
faux pas on his part years ago,
when at the beginning of a Rus-
sian history class he called his
students’ attention to the up-

coming ‘‘peasants’ weekend.”
When asked if any ‘‘peasants’’
showed up, Jenks replied ‘yes
—in furs and perfume.”

Retirement in Lexington will
allow him more time to visit his
son and daughter, read, listen to
music (Mozart, Ravel, Debus-
sy, and Stravinsky are his
favorites) and tend to the lawn.
He and his wife are currently
contemplating a trip to Cairo
and Luxor.

One figure from history Jenks
would particularly like to meet
is Greta Garbo. “‘My wife has
run into her twice in New York.
I’ve not had the chance.”’

Perhaps now he will.

vs

gr

Computer center

 

Word processing availabl

For the past several months,
the Computer Committee has
been engaged in a study of word
processing; a study which
ultimately includes considera-
tion of micro-computers. In the
course of this undertaking, a
survey of the faculty and ad-
ministration was taken as well
as a survey of a number of other
educational institutions. The
surveys revealed considerable
interest in making word pro-
cessing available to a wide
spectrum of applications but
provided no firm answers con-

Musical
groups

The Washington and Lee Glee
Club will present a series of five
concerts in Texas.

Directed since 1973 by Gordon
P. Spice, associate professor of
music, the 37-member glee club
will begin its tour with a concert
at the First Presbyterian
Church of Dallas on Feb. 13.
The other concerts will be given
at St. Mark’s School in Dallas
(Feb. 14), St. Luke’s Episcopal
Church in San Antonio (Feb.
15), St. Luke’s Methodist
Church in Houston (Feb. 16),
and St. John’s School in Houston
(Feb. 17).

Meantime, the Washington
and Lee Brass and Percussion
Ensemble will be touring
several resort locations in
Florida and the Bahamas, in-
cluding appearances on the
Tomorrowland Stage in Disney-
world and aboard the cruise
ship Amerikanis.

Robert Stewart, professor of
music at W&L, is the director of
the Brass and Percussion En-
semble.

cerning the mechanism to offer
this service. Micro-computers
remain an important possibility
for this purpose (and for other
educational purposes).

This letter represents an in-
terim report of the delibera-
tions. The Committee is contin-
uing its study of micro-compu-
ters with a view towards pro-
viding recommendations so
that future requests for equip-
ment may be evaluated by the
Committee.

Asecond purpose of this letter
is to publicize the fact that word
processing is currently avail-

able for general use, including
students, on the Harris com-
puter. There will be soon a let-
ter quality printer available in
the Computer Center. Next year
the printers at the remote ter-
minal clusters will be updated
to permit upper/lower case
printing — the printer in Parm-
ly Hall already has this
capability. Finally, the Com-
puter Center plans to present an
introductory seminar (to be
repeated periodically) on the
use of the Harris system for
word processing.

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

pS EERE OT err en re
Business Manager.............sseeeeeees
Managing Editor .............0.eseeeeeee

MITTEE CTT OR TT ee ere

PODITUIED 6s 1b cats ceniedinccceseecins

 

PReTer Tr ree Bill Roberts
bee eesseeacbbershernesst ees Steve Perry
UPI eer eri Ser ree Evans Attwell
a6 60swEstbtp ent lelaeas ha Rick Swagler
hoe bi Cevseigves selec nes costes Jim Laurie

Poe ccceeeeeemeorerteateoese Dave Stevens
égnd bye eekoices Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

os eORCs oc 00s eves eedeend idan Paul Casey
Ke bebhncubsetetiiesis te David W. Johnston
jwaeial Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

John Cleghorn, John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,
Nelson Patterson,G. Bruce Potter, Allen Roberts,

Advertising Manager ................055.
RE GR bins Oe ict haceee heee tines

Circulation Manager .............00000005
COON TINIE 656 604 Kes cecib ee cinaest ne

Rob Schlegal, B. Scott Tilley

«hase csaveredasatasaasesie Tom O’Brien
Wereerr ore err Al Bryant, Charles King,

Brad Huston, Tim Mulreany, Jim Wood

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1983, Page 3

 

EC president Ross comments on W&L

By JOHN HARRISON
‘Phi Staff Writer

As president of the Executive
Committee of the student body
at Washington and Lee, Bennett
Ross controls a 12-man group
that is responsible for the ad-
ministration of the school’s
honor system as well as the
supervision of every aspect of
campus life.

Yet when he took office in
September, Ross said that he
felt his responsibility was to see
that the EC itself operated effi-
ciently as well as effectively.

“At the beginning of the
year,” he said, ‘the biggest
challenge we had was to create
tight internal control of the sub-
committees. There was no re-
serve (funds) for us to dip into,
so we couldn’t tolerate any
wasteful spending.”’

Evaluating the work of the
EC for the first half of the year,
Ross pointed out that through
its subcommittees the EC has
successfully followed through
on suggestions from other
students.

“There have been little, but
important, things that people
have brought to our attention,
like the equipment in the weight
room needing to be fixed,” he
said. “‘We had a subcommittee
look into that and it was even-
tually taken care of. We ap-
pointed another subcommittee
that was successful in getting
the drop/add fee reduced back
to $5.’’ he noted.

Ross has also been pleased
with the Student Activities
Board, the extracurricular ac-
tivities division of the Ex-
ecutive Committee.

“They’ve worked hard to
bring us some fine programs,”’

Ross said, adding that the
ultimate factor in determining
the SAB’s performance will be
whether it can prevent the Fan-
cy Dress Ball from being a
financial loss.

Last year the SAB lost about

$25,000 on Fancy Dress, accord-
ing to FD Director John
Haywood.

In the remainder of the year,
Ross said there are at least two
matters the EC will be address-
ing, the foremost being the
university’s official explanation
of the Honor Code and its ad-
ministration, the White Book.

“We've got to complete the
revisions on that and make sure

‘that the people on the EC for

next year will be able to run
things smoothly,’’ he said

Responding to a recent letter
in the Ring-tum Phi which call-
ed for the abolishment of the
Honor Code on the grounds that
college students are not capable
of dispensing justice in honor
trials, Ross said the letter’s
author showed a ‘‘fallacy in
thought. His thoughts were not
coherent. Students must be held
responsible for their actions. If
we (the EC) can handle a large
budget, then we should also be
allowed to handle honor cases.”

Ross added the letter’s com-
ments about the personality of
the president of the Student Bar
Association were unnecessary
and used ‘‘only to get attention”
from the W&L community.

Asked to reflect on ‘the
changes he has seen at W&L in
his four years on campus, Ross
pointed to the SAB.

“One of the best things is that
it has moved outside its regular
realm, the fraternities. It’s

made a real effort to appeal to
independents and law students
and not just the fraternities.
They haven’t gone far enough
(in considering the entire stu-
dent body) but they’ve come a

Bennett Ross

long way, and with the money
they have, it should continue to
improve,

On the retirement of Presi-
dent Huntley and the changes

 

that could follow, Ross conclud-

_ed, ‘‘The school has made a

commitment to serious  stu-
dents. I do not think that will
change under President
Wilson.”’

PAD sponsors seminar

The Phi Alpha Delta law
fraternity at the Washington
and Lee University School of
Law will sponsor a one-day
seminar on family and juvenile
law on Saturday, Feb. 12, in
Lewis Hall.

The seminar will include ses-
sions led by members of the
W&L law school faculty, prac-

ticing lawyers, and other
specialists in the areas of fami-
ly and juvenile law.

For the past two years, Phi
Alpha Delta has conducted a
Juvenile Justice Program in the
Rockbridge County area in
which W&L law students have
taught classes on _ various
aspects of the law to students in

area public schools.

According to Dave Friedfeld,
a third-year W&L law student,
the Family and Juvenile Law
Seminar is an extension of the
Juvenile Justice Program,
which has been extremely suc-
cessful in Rockbridge area
schools.

Cockpit could close if drinking age raised

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Staff Writer

“Devastating.”

“There would be some
serious consequences.”’

Those were the reactions
from Jerry Darrell, Food ser-
vices manager and Dean of
Students Lewis John to a bill
under consideration by the
Virginia General Assembly to
raise the legal drinking age for
beer to 21.

The bill sailed through the
House of Delegates by a 71-27
vote 10 days ago and is expected
to pass the Senate before the
end of the session in mid-
February. Governor Charles
Robb supports the measure.

If adopted, the bill would
become effective July 1, 1983. A
“grandfather clause” would en-
sure that any person who could
legally buy beer on that date

would not be stripped of the
privilege. Currently in Virginia,
one must be 19 to buy beer to
take out and 18 to purchase it
for on-premises consumption.

Darrell indicated that the bill
could spell the end for the
Cockpit. The on-campus tavern
receives 95 percent of its
business from students at night,
but the new law would essential-
ly limit alcohol consumption to
seniors.

In addition, a majority of the
Cockpit’s business comes from
the bands on Tuesday nights.
However, Darrell doubts the
Student Activities Board would
continue to hire bands if beer
were not being sold.

Before deciding to close the
tavern or discontinue its beer
license, Darrell said, “I would
like to get a lot of input from a

lot of different people.”

There are two possible loop-
holes that could save the
Cockpit. The first, an amend-
ment that barely failed in the
House, would raise the on-
premises consumption from 18
to 19. Another would allow on-
premises consumption in closed
environments by people under
21. This would include army
bases and college campuses.

Not only would the Cockpit
lose a majority of its business if
the law were enacted, but, ac-
cording to Dean of Students
Lewis John, ‘‘The provision of
beer at Fancy Dress would be
open to question, and SAB
events would certainly be af-
fected in the way they are car-
ried out.”’

John, who was hoping the bill
that

would not pass, feels

fraternity parties, as private af-
fairs with individual drinking
might not be greatly affected.
However, he said, ‘‘I would hate
to see the Cockpit close or stop
serving beer.”

His opposition to the bill does
not only stem from its implica-
tions at Washington and Lee. “I
don’t think it will accomplish
the purposes that its sponsors
have indicated, if in fact they
are attempting to get at drunk-
en driving,” he said. ‘Stricter
drunken driving laws and
stricter enforcement are better
ways to approach it.”’

Darrell, though, feels other-
wise, “I think it’s good
something is being done,’’ he
said.

Delegate Vance Wilkins, a
Republican who represents
Lexington, affirmed that the in-

crease of automobile accidents
involving intoxicated youths
had an impact on the legisla-
ture’s decision to tackle the
issue. A youth, Wilkins said, ‘‘is
not that good a driver, and that
coupled with beer may have a
pretty measurable effect.’’

However, the measure will
not be a ‘‘cure-all. It’s not going
to keep alcohol out of the hands
of people 18, 19 or 20, but it will
get it out of the hands of 16- and
17-year-olds,”’ Wilkins said.

Wilkins, who voted for the bill
and gives it a ‘‘very good
chance”’ of passing the Senate,
does not feel that it will
eliminate alcohol at colleges
and universities.

After all, he said, “Do you
have to have liquor to have a
good time?”’
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1983
Re ATR SNL AN TETRA RR RELIC ERODE TR ONC METE ETE RE SAIE I EE

Murphy makes‘48 hours’

By TODD JONES
Phi Staff Writer

In his screen debut, 48 Hours,
Saturday Night Live alumnus
Eddie Murphy shows the poten-
tial for a very successful screen
career, although it is unfor-
tunate that he picked this movie
in which to debut. Not to say the
movie doesn’t have its mo-
ments, it does, but they are
almost entirely because of Ed-
die Murphy.

In the film, which stars Mur-
phy and Nick Nolte, a cop
(Nolte) is trying to recover an
escaped convict, and requires
the help of another convict

(Murphy). Nolte once again
plays the tough-guy role which
he used so effectivly in North
Dallas Forty, acting as a straight
man for Murphy. Although his
scenes with Murphy are good,
his scenes with his lover, played
by Annette O’Toole, leave
something to be desired. This is
another in a series of standard
roles for Nolte.

Murphy, however, shows how
a movie can be worthwhile, for
just one performer. Murphy is
hilarious as a sarcastic, wise-
cracking, street-wise burglar.
One spends the entire evening
laughing when he is on and
waiting for him to return when

 

residence at Washington and Lee University’s Frances Lewis Law
Center for the spring semester. (Hinely photo for W&L)

Berman at

Harvard law _ professor
Harold J. Berman has been
named scholar-in-residence in
the Frances Lewis Law Center
at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s School of Law.

Berman will spend the spring
semester at Washington and
Lee’s law school where he will
conduct research on the impact
of the great revolutions in the
West on the ideas of law. In ad-
dition, he will teach a seminar
on law reform.

Berman is the James Barr
Ames Professor of Law at Har-
vard, where he has been teach-
ing since 1948. His courses there
include The Law of Interna-
tional Trade, The Western
Legal Tradition, and Com-
parison of Soviet and American
Law.

He is the author of 19 books
and more than 200 articles and
has written extensively on com-

W&L law

parative law, legal history, and
legal philosophy as well as on
legal problems in international
trade. His books include ‘‘Jus-
tice in the U.S.S.R.”’ (2nd edi-
tion, 1963), ‘‘Soviet Criminal
Law and Procedure’’ (2nd edi-
tion, 1972), and ‘‘The Interac-
tion of Law and Religion’
(1974).

A native of Hartford, Conn.,
Berman received the B.A.
degree from Dartmouth College
in 1938. He studied at the Lon-
don School of Economics and
Political Science in 1938-39 and

at the Yale Graduate School
and Yale Law School. He re-
ceived both the M.A. (1942) and
the LL.B. (1947) from Yale
University. He taught law in
Stanford in 1947-48. He served in
the U.S. Army from 1942 to 1945
and is the recipient of the
Bronze Star Medal.

FLORIST &
GREENERY

Flowers for Valentine’s Day
165 South Main Street

he isn’t. Murphy simply makes
the movie what it is.

The film’s most effective mo-
ment is a foot-chase in China-
town in San Francisco. How-
ever, the film contained an inor-
dinate amount of violence,
which did not add to the movie’s
humor or effectiveness. It pro-
bably would have been better
with fewer bullet-in-the-head
scenes and more Murphy.

The film, which was written
by Walter Hill, Roger Spots-
woode and Larry Gross and
directed by Hill, ought to be
seen, if only for Murphy’s
wonderful performance. How-
ever, don’t expect much more.
Two and a half stars.

By DAVID GEISE
Special to the Phi

The music crossing the Atlan-
tic from Great Britain has
always been extremely diverse
in origin, content, and style.
Two of the latest releases are
certainly no exceptions to this
rule.

Now in their third year as a
recording band, the average
age of Sheffield’s Def Leppard
is only 20, but they play with the
assurance and maturity of
musicians 10 years older. On
Pyromania, their third album,
the raw edge of their previous
recordings, Through the Night,
and High ’n’ Dry is combined
with producer R.J. ‘‘Mutt”
Lange’s hard, but extremely
commercial sheen. Lange has
worked with both AC/DC and
Foreigner. The result is a

Henson’s

By TODD JONES
Phi Staff Writer

The Dark Crystal was probably
the largest undertaking in Jim
Henson’s life. It was worth it.
The Dark Crystal is an enchant-
ing film with some of the most
amazing puppetry ever.

Henson, along with Frank Oz,
directed this film, and of
course, was responsible for
much of the puppetry. The film
takes place on another planet in
another place and time — this
allows for some of the unique
creations of creatures and
plants.

| VARNER|
| & POLE

115 South Main Street

For your extra

 

Calendar

Thursday, Feb. 10

REGISTRATION FOR SPRING TERIA.
5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: John W. Miller III, and Robert
C. Woods, Howe 401. Preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402.
8p.m. — CONCERT: Pre-tour concert presented by the W&L Brass
and Percussion Ensemble. Lee Chapel.
8p.m. — PLAY: ‘‘A Life in the Theatre’”’:
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: Basketball-Shenandoah College.

Friday, Feb. 11
5:05 p.m. — Washington holiday begins. (undergraduate)
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: Wrestling: Catawba.

Saturday, Feb. 12

Lincoln’s Birthday
10 a.m.-5 p.m. — SEMINAR: ‘‘Family & Juvenile Law.” Sponsored
by Phi Alpha Delta law fraternity. Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: Basketball: Roanoke. Swimming:
VCU at Sweet Briar. Track: Lynchburg. Wrestling: Pfeiffer.

 

straight-forward, hard-rocking
album with enough hooks and
production tricks to make it suf-
ficiently accessable for
American radio. By simply
changing prduction sytles, Def
Leppard has a chance at crack-
ing the American market
without compromising musical
style.

Despite a fanatical British
and European following and a
respectable international
appeal, the Jam has never at-
tracted more than a small
group of fans stateside. This
can be attributed, in part, to the
Jam’s refusal to compromise
their musical integrity, and a
certain lyrical inaccessibility.
The average Journey/Styx
record buyer is neither likely
nor expected to be interested in
lyrics about the current state of

Def Leppard and The Jam rock

England’s society. Despite an
almost criminal state of affairs,
the Jam stuck to their musical
guns until the very end, having
disbanded late last year. Their
last album, Dig The New Breed,
is a live anthology recorded be-
tween 1977-82, which gives a
good representation of the dif-
ferent stages through which the
band evolved. Early recordings
with small audiences show the
band at their frenetic best with
the influences of the past (early
Who) displayed proudly while
still acknowledging London’s
punk present. Later perfor-
mances show the polish and
maturity that made the Jam
one of Britain’s most popular
bands. While still not accessible
enough for stateside radio, the
Jam’s last album more than
lives up to their standards.

latest puppet magic

The story is about a Gelfling
(a creature which looks like a
human) who is given a shard
from a giant crystal, many
miles away. His job is to merge

this shard with the huge crystal. .

The crystal is guarded by
Skeksis — the masters of evil.
Skeksis are huge, vulture-like
creatures, who are crude, nas-
ty, and humourous.

There are a few drawbacks to
the film; the story, by Henson
and David O’Dell, was not near-
ly as imaginative as the pup-
pets. The plot was too conven-
tional — with all these strange
creatures on another planet,

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia

ae

why play the game according to
human rules? However, the
film is such that it’s very enter-
taining just to sit back and
watch the puppetry and forget
about the plot.

The Dark Crystal is a film to
see. While by no means perfect,
it is enjoyable beginning to end.
One cannot begin to compli-
ment Oz and Henson and Frian
Froud for imaginations. which
created these wonderful crea-
tures. One hopes that Oz and
Henson will continue to put out
more films like The Dark
Crystal. Three and a half stars.

Chinese, Polynesian, and

American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 

iSun. Buffet 12-2: 30—$4.25 |

‘‘Carry-out Available’’

Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10

 

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Open Saturday 4-10
(703) 463-9152

of furiture. |

   
O’Kane display in duPont aa »

WEL News Office

An exhibit of paintings by
Virginia artist Tim O’Kane
went on display in duPont
Gallery on the Washington and
Lee University campus on Mon-
day, Jan. 31.

The exhibition will remain on
view through Feb. 25.

Hours for the duPont Gallery
are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays,
11 a.m. to3 p.m. Saturdays, and
2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sundays. Ad-
mission is free.

O’Kane is a native of Rich-
mond and is currently living in
Scottsville. He received the

bachelor of fine arts degree in
painting/printmaking from Vir-
ginia Commonwealth Univer-
sity in 1972.

He has exhibited widely in
Virginia and elsewhere. In 1979,
his work was included in the
Realist Annual: Landscape Ex-
hibition of the Southeastern
Center for Contemporary Art in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

In 1980, he began exhibiting at
Quadrum Gallery in Boston and
received a _ professional fel-
lowship from The Virginia Mu-
seum in Richmond.

He has also received a
Virginia Commission for the
Arts Professional Fellowship
from the Virginia Museum and
has begun exhibiting his work
at the Francis Kyle Gallery in

London. His paintings were in-
cluded in a group invitational
exhibition, ‘“‘Realism,’”’ at the
Southeastern Center for Con-
temporary Art in Winston-
Salem in 1982.

O’Kane’s _ paintings were
featured in “A Tim O’Kane
Portfolio” in the May/June
issue of The Albermarle

Magazine.
Of his painting, O’Kane has
written: “... to me painting is

like making music. It makes me
wander into my feelings about
what I’ve been through in my
relationships, about what I feel
with the overhanging kind of
pressure of impermanence all
the time. It takes me through
—as a dream does — levels of
the subconscious.’

Carter portrait added to

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity received a valuable addi-
tion to its collection of 18th and
19th century American art
when Mrs. Theodore A. Seder of
Lexington presented the univer-
sity with a portrait of Bernard
Moore Carter painted around
1810 by noted artist John
Vanderlyn.

Mrs. Seder made the gift in
memory of her mother, Mary
McCorkle Wilson Morgan, who
was born and raised in Lex-
ington and Collierstown, and in
honor of her brother, William

 

Wilson Morgan, a member of
the Washington and Lee Class
of 1927 and a distinguished
astronomer and professor of
physics with the Yerkes Obser-
vatory of the University of
Chicago.

Mr. and Mrs. Seder moved to
Lexington in December from
San Antonio, Tex.

The Carter portrait is an im-
portant addition to the Washing-
ton and Lee collection not only
because it is the university’s
first work by Vanderlyn but
also because it provides an in-

teresting link with the Custis-
Washington-Lee Collection,
which represents six genera-
tions of the Washington, Custis,
and Lee families.

Bernard Moore Carter’s
sister was the wife of ‘Light
Horse Harry Lee” and the
mother of Robert E. Lee. Carter
was himself the husband of
“Light Horse Harry’ Lee’s
daughter, Lucy.

“This painting has been a
treasure and joy to me for near-
ly 25 years,’’ Mrs. Seder said.
“And now I wish to share it with

Washington and Lee University President John D. Wilson (right) accepts a 19th century portrait of
Bernard Moore Carter by artist John Vanderlyn from Mr. and Mrs. Theodore A. Seder of Lexington. The
portrait will become part of W&L’s collection of 18th and 19th century American art. (Hinely photo for

W&L)
eT

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO
23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

|
|
|
|

5 Ne 2 —- & <i © a &

Es EM EE EI RNR

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, ——  ~S

Creer RC eerie alg

Oh

$999

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

 

BLT

PHONE 463-7000

The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1983, Page 5

Artist Tim O’Kane (right) chats with W&L English professor

 
   

Severn Duvall during a reception in duPont Gallery where an ex-
hibition of O’Kane’s work is currently on display. The 0'Kane ex-

W&L)

people who are most likely to
enjoy it and learn from it as a
fine example of early American

portraiture.”
Vanderlyn was considered
the best portraitist of his day.

“This portrait makes an im-
portant educational addition to
our art history program here at
Washington and Lee,” said
Pamela H. Simpson, associate
professor of art history and
assistant dean of the college at
W&L. ‘‘Aside from the obvious
importance of the connection
between the subject of the
painting and the Lee family, a
painting by John Vanderlyn, an
extremely important American
artist, makes a splendid addi-
tion to our collection.”

_ hibition will remain on view through Feb. 25. (Pete Cronin photo for

W&L collection

According to Mrs. Seder, who
was formerly a research and
art reference librarian, very
few portraits by Vanderlyn
have come on the art market
since most of the artist’s best
work was commissioned by
various government bodies, in-
cluding the U.S. Congress and
the state and city of New York.

Bernard Moore Carter, born
in 1780, was the son of Charles
Carter of Shirley Plantation and
the great grandson of ‘King’
Carter and Governor Spotts-
wood.

Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson accepted
the painting on behalf of the
university.

Phi Beta Kappa

awards made

Gabriel Bryan Balazs of Lex-
ington and Christopher H.
Williams of Newark, Del., have
been named co-winners of the
annual Phi Beta Kappa
Sophomore Award at Washing-
ton and Lee University.

The award recognizes super-
lative scholastic achievement
among undergraduates in their
first two years at W&L. It is
made annually by the Gamma
of Virginia Chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa to the sophomore who
has attained the highest
cumulative scholastic average
through the end of the fall term

 

Hamric & Sheridan

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs

GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

 

 

, 11 W. Nelson 463-2022 )

JEWELERS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings

 

of his second year at W&L.

Both Balazs and Williams
have attained perfect 4.0
cumulative grade-point
averages.

Balazs, a graduate of Lex-
ington High School, won the
Mary Louisa Reid White
Scholarship in Chemistry and

the James S. Wood Prize in Ger-
man in 1982 and has been

elected to Phi Eta Sigma, the

freshman honor society.
Williams, a graduate of

Newark’ High School, has been

elected to Phi Eta Sigma also.

Lorae L. McDonald, L.C.S.W.

Licensed Clinical Social Worker

Family & Individual Counselers

20 West Washington St.

Lexington, Va.
463-4927

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1983

Lacrosse preview

 

 

 

Strong team to work out in Florida

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

With the start of the season
less than three weeks away, it
appears that the Washington
and Lee lacrosse team will be
skilled and deep at the at-
tackman position and in goal. It
is at midfield and defense, ac-
cording to head coach Jack Em-
mer, that the Generals will be
trying to make up for a lack of
overall experience.

“Our attack will have a group
of six solid players that gives us
a good nucleus to work with,”
said Emmer. “Some of them
like to play right around the
goal to get the ball fed to them,”
he noted.

Lee Heimert and Geoff Wood
should be W&L’s biggest scor-
ing threats. Heimert is the
leading scorer among returning

players, while senior Wood
tallied 22 times as a sophomore.

Emmer also is counting on
seniors Mike Lewers and Joe
Seifert, who missed part of last
year with injuries, as well as
Jeff Mason and freshman Caul-
ley Deringer to lead an offense
that lost the top three point
scorers from last season.

One of those players is Rob
Staugaitis, who set up the at-
tack the past two years and
finished his career as_ the
second-leading assist scorer in
school history. The primary
candidate to take over the
directing responsibilities, said
Emmer, is sophomore Rod San-
tomassimo.

A lack of depth and ex-
perience at midfield is the
Generals’ area of greatest con-
cern. ‘Normally you’d like. to
have nine to 12 middies, but we

 

 

 

 

 

, een ee a ae le

uccdays

 

IN

The Cockpit
W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

tea, .

 

 

eT = oe en Nw ee ee ew” ee ee ee ee ee Ee

 

 

ree. 2a

 

 

"It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 

have only five or six coming
back from last year,” he said.
He added that it isn’t likely any
of last year’s junior varsity,
midfielders will move up.
Co-captains John Tunney, a
solid two-way player, and John
Doub will be the leading mid-
dies. Doub and Barry Water-
man should be the biggest offen-
sive threats at the position, ac-
cording to Emmer. John But-
tarazzi, Kevin Walakovits, Stu
Kiehne, Mark Knobloch and
Sandy Brown also are assured
of spots. Emmer said that
Kiehne, who ran on the same
line last season as second and
third-leading scorers Mike
Schuler and John Sancilio, will
have to pick up some of the
slack created by the loss of

those two players.

On defense, where only five
seniors and juniors return, ex-
perience might be a problem.
However, Emmer said, there
are teams that will vie for the
remaining four spots. ‘‘We want
to wait to see who develops
before we make a decision,”
said the coach.

Seniors Newton Kendrick,
Steve Conboy and Bill Sharp
will be joined by juniors Tim
Schurr and Don Richardson.
Schurr was moved to defense
after he played defensive mid-
die a year ago.

In goal the Generals, led by
junior Phil Aiken, should be
stronger at the start of a season
than they have been for several
years. Said Emmer, ‘‘Aiken has

Time-out....

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

..Do we really need the
USFL? Well, it looks like we’re
going to get it whether we need
it or not. It’s just another in-
dication of what professional
athletics has been reduced to:

       
     
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
       
       
  
        
 
 
 
    
 
  
     
   
   
 

STATE THEATRE
re Mexmeven ya 463-3424

Eves. 7:00& 9:00
Monday Night All Seats $1.50
Sat./ Sun. Mat. 2P.M.

Alle ULL

BZ ;
‘43 LEXINGTON, VA 463-3543

Eves. 7:15& 9:00
Monday Night All Seats $1.50
Sat./ Sun. Mat. 2P.M.

  

   

LYLE SWANN
1S A CHAMPION
* OFF-ROAO RACER.

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

Money. Witness ABC’s huge
deal to televise the league’s
opening season and the out-
rageous contracts that USFL
rookies are being offered.
(Kelvin Bryant is expected to
sign for a mere $350,000 a year. )
It isn’t enough to say profes-
sional sports are a business and
big business means big money.
Besides, the USFL isn’t offering
anything new. It’s just the old
spinoff game based on the idea
that more (money, gimmicks,
etc.) is better. And we’ve also
seen what’s happened to those
spinoffs. Remember, if you can,
the ABA, WHA, and WFL.
They’ll be more people follow-
ing the financial conditions than
the football scores. The
scenario’s getting distasteful
and sadly enough the only thing
new about the USFL is that it
has four letters in its abbrevia-
tion instead of three...

...Well, back down to earth
and the Warner Center. Hats off
to General cagers John Lee
Graves and Billy Yates who
lead the ODAC in free throw
percentage. Infact, the team as
a whole sits atop the ODAC in
both free throw percentage and
field goal percentage. Why are
they in fourth place in the con-
ference then, you ask? It comes

  

a lot of confidence from his per-
formance when he started the
last couple of games last year.”
Junior Mark Lukes will pro-
bably be the first backup, with
John DiDuro and Tom Truffer
also challenging Aiken.

Emmer believes that national
champion North Carolina,
runner-up Johns Hopkins and
Virginia should continue their
dominance of _ collegiate
lacrosse, with Cornell and
Maryland moving up strongly
this year.

Over Washington break, the
team will be in southern Florida
to take advantage of the warm
weather for two-a-day work-
outs. Duke University will be at
Wilson Field for the season
opener Wednesday, March 2.

down to the Generals’ ability to
control the game which was
present in December and early
January but seems to be sketch-
y right now. Let’s face it, the
team that controls the game
wins it and recently W&L has
been the controllee rather than
the controller. The beginnings
of a turnaround, though, can be
seen in the victory over Lynch-
burg. They’ve played them-
selves into a hole, but I’d like to
see them find their way out...

...Other news from the center
sees the swimmers and wres-
tlers continuing to improve and
it appears both these squads
have individuals who are poin-
ting toward their respective na-
tional tournaments.... It’s a
shame, however, that these in-
dividuals, along with the
basketball team, aren’t receiv-
ing the fan support their efforts
deserve...

..Finally, I’m sure you’ve
heard of the NCAA’s new ‘‘700”
rule. That’s the one requiring
recipients of athletic scholar-
ships to score a minimum of 700
on the SATs. Wait, don’t laugh
yet. They expect it to work, |
too.... Have a nice break..

or your Valentine
card, gift or plant,
come to

Suzy’s

Old Main Street Mall ,

 

 

 
 

Wrestlers finish
home season 7-2

By CHRIS FULTON
Phi Staff Writer

Wrestling at home for the last
time this season the Generals
improved their record to 7-2 and
locked up a winning season in
quadrangular competition
against Furman University, La
Salle College and Campbell Col-
lege.

The Generals routed Furman
56-2 and La Salle 53-3 but came
‘up short- against Campbell
24-18.

Outconditioning and ‘‘mental
toughness,’’ the dividends of a
difficult early schedule, were
the story behind the Generals’
impressive performance Satur-
day, as W&L pinned nine op-
ponents from Furman and
LaSalle. The Generals lost in a
hard-fought struggle with
Campbell; although both teams
posted five victories each, the
Campbell Camels had more
total points and claimed the vic-
tory.

Despite the team loss to

Cagersuse varied line-ups to notch victories

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

After losing on the road at
Emory & Henry, the Washing-
ton and Lee basketball team
won its final two Old Dominion
Athletic Conference home
games to raise its ODAC record
to 8-5 and its overall mark to
15-6.

As of Tuesday night, the
Generals 8-5 league mark put
them in fourth place in the
ODAC. Hampden-Sydney and
Maryville were both ahead of
the Generals with 7-4 marks,
and Catholic and Eastern Men-
nonite trailed W&L with 7-6

~ marks.

“They are hanging in there
tough, and I’m very proud of
them,’’ W&L Coach Verne Can-
field said concerning his team’s
performance.

Thursday at Emory & Henry
the Generals led briefly in the
second half, but lost to the
Wasps 61-53.

W&L trailed by six points at
the half, but came back to take
a 40-36 lead with about 13

Campbell, freshman Larry
Anker and junior Tim Valliere
had a day of revenge. Anker
had lost twice to his Camel op-
ponent early in the season by
sizeable margins, but ag-
gressive, quick wrestling and
added experience led him to a
4-2 victory. Valliere posted an
identical score in his win over
his Campbell adversary. Val-
liere wrestled intelligently, shif-
ting his opponent to’the edge of
the mat before trying to shoot
in, and moving to the center
when in control. Again, condi-
tioning appeared to be a factor
in the final period.

W&L crushed Furman 56-2,
with a combination of six pins,
three forfeits, and one tie.
Anker (134), Win Sisson(142),
Tim White (150), Win Phillips
(158), Dave Johnston (177), and
Jeff Dixon (190) all forced their
opponent’s shoulders to. the
mat; Dixon’s pin came just 50
seconds into the match.

White, junior Carlton Peebles
and freshman Dave Nichols

minutes to play. Emory &
Henry regained the lead for
good with three minutes to play,
and held off the Generals by hit-
ting 10 free throws in the final
minutes.

Sophomore Lex Fitzenhagen
led the Generals’ attack with 13
points. Senior Brian Hanson
and junior John Lee Graves
added 12 points each.

W&L continued to play well in
the Warner Center though, as
the Generals trounced Lynch-
burg College 82-66 Saturday
night.

Throughout much of the
game, the Generals employed a
three-guard offense and a delay
game very effectively.

‘“‘We need a change,’’ explain-
ed Canfield concerning the in-
creased use of the three-guard
offense in recent games. ‘‘Some
of the big guys weren’t doing
some of the things we wanted
them todo.”

W&L also used a two platoon
system in the Lynchburg game.
Canfield started a line-up of
Hanson, Fitzenhagen, Kevin

 

 

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This
Your Headquarters For

Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality

 

 

  
   

  
 
   
     
   

The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1983, Page 7

 

Freshman Larry Anker puts the finishing touches on his Furman adversary in action last Saturday at
the Warner Center. Nine Generals pinned their opponents as W&L posted two team wins on the day.
(Phi photo by Ken Ries)

each had pins against La Salle.
It was Nichols’ first collegiate
appearance, and as coach Gary
Franke pointed out, “Now
everyone on the team has had
experience whether they are in
the starting line-up or not.”’
Campbell College was the
real test of the day and W&L

McClatchey, David Wilkinson,
and Scott Shannon. Ten minutes
into the game, Canfield substi-
tuted five new players for the
starters.

‘“‘We just needed something to
relieve the pressure on some of
the kids who weren’t playing
well,” Canfield reported. Can-
field added that the team’s
heavy schedule in addition to
academics have forced him to
make frequent adjustments in
the line-up.

Lynchburg led the Generals
during the opening minutes of
the first half, but W&L took the
lead permanently on a basket
by Hanson that gave W&L a
17-16 lead with 11:33 remaining
in the half. W&L increased its
lead to 37-26 at halftime.

The Generals put Lynchburg
away with an 11-0 burst in the

 

Cinema |
Buena Vista

 

Shows Sun.-Thurs. 7:15 p.m.
Fri., Sat. 7:15 and 9p.m.
Mon, Night All Seats $1.50

 

 

 

performed admirably, winning
five matches and losing five but
falling short in the overall point
totals. In addition to victories
by Anker and Valliere other
winners were Win Phillips 5-0,
Jeff Dixon 15-1, and Carlton
Peebles 13-2. Coach Franke
summed up the weekend,

opening four minutes of the se-
cond half to take a 48-26 lead.
The Hornets never closed the
deficit to less than 15 points with
the rest of the game.

Hanson and Fitzenhagen
were the only Generals to score
in double figures as the frequent
substitutions kept the scoring
balanced. Hanson tossed in 23
points, and Fitzenhagen hit for
13 points.

Tuesday night in the Warner
Center the Generals never trail-
ed Bridgewater College during
W&L’s 84-75 victory over the
Eagles.

W&L expanded a 44-32 half-
time lead to a 59-42 lead with
about 14 minutes to play in the
game. Bridgewater rallied to
close the gap to seven points on
several occasions, but could
never get any closer than that.

stating ‘It wasn’t a bad after-
noon’s work for us.”’

W&L resumes action this
week with two matches on the
road. Wednesday the team
travels for a match with Lyn-
chburg College, and Saturday
the Generals will wrestle at
Catawba.

Five Generals scored in dou-
ble figures with Hanson leading
the way with 22 points. Frank
Eppes fired in 18 points, Graves
14 points, Wilkinson 14 points,
and Billy Yates 10 points.

W&L concludes its regular
season with a four-game road
trip that begins tonight with a
non-league game at Shenan-
doah College. Over the break,
the Generals will have ODAC
contests at Roanoke, Eastern
Mennonite, and Maryville.

“Certainly the Maryville and
the Eastern Mennonite games
will be critical because we are
competing with them for play-
off position,’’ noted Canfield.

W&L traditionally has a long
road trip scheduled during
February break. “That is some-
thing we have to deal with,”
Canfield noted.

 

 

d It’s Love month at the Hodge Podge.

 

Lots of Valentine cards

Order your own candy assortment
Valentine party accessories
Even adorable Valentine mugs.

 

 

 

Y)
Your Valentine Smurf headquarters
F Our great wines and cheeses
g ” Unlimited Valentine Fancies!
Hodge Podge
116N. Main St., Lexington °

10 - 5 — Monday - Saturday
463-3683

 

 

 

 

 

 

coin

AEE pnt creck e- oeeos ch
mdiesehn Por ug seepage sy. ren ane
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1983

* TONIG

    

HT x

 

 

VIRGINIA CAROLINA

SAMPSON vs PERKINS

THE CAVS VS THE HEELS
NO. 2 VS NO. 1

WIDE SCREEN ACTION

 

6:00-8:00 Drafts 35° Tacos 3/$1.00
DURING THE GAME 50‘ Drafts

 

Friday 9:30-1:30 POWER PLAY ate

THE BEST EVER TO PLAY OPERA HOUSE

  
 
 

    

DRY GOODS >
zn Up
a 4X

FANCY DRESS
OUTFITTERS

=== RECORDS

 

  
 

 

  
    

CORNER!
MARGARET

 
  

 

Formal Wear by Bill Blass

 

 

and Lord West &

“a JUST ARRIVED MARY'S

i Great selection of silk GS VALEN TINE ey
Foulard cumberbund sets =) Ss Pp EC J A L | we

 

and braided end braces. Also,

we'll be happy to teach you
how to tie that bow tie!!

Selected Stock Sale

§5°° on LP’s

 

LEXINGTON DRY GOODS COMPANY

Corner Nelson & Jefferson
x FINAL WINTER CLEARANCE NOW IN PROGRESS *

 
 

VOLUME 82

Rin

NUMBER 19

 
 
 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASHINGTON &

LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTONg WA; 3

§-tum Phi FEB 241983

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia

  
 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO 38

    
  

 

 
 

February 24, 1983

 

 

Candidates respond to students’ questions at an Executive Committee-sponsored forum. From left,

David Judge, Markham Pyle, Gov Slahor, Bob Janevein, Mike Singer and Len Howard.

Two want VP pos

Judge calls for

new blood

Tilley sees lack
of credibility

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor

Dave Judge, the only student
to declare candidacy for stu-
dent body vice president at
Tuesday’s candidate debate,
called for new blood in student
government, saying that the EC
had become too much a self-
perpetuating body.

Citing this year as an exam-
ple, Judge said that traditional-

_ly those occupying the Big
Three positions have come from
within the EC.

Any student with the ‘desire

_ and perseverance” to do the job
can be effective, Judge said.

Judge, a junior, added that
what was designed to be a
student-run government has
begun to get away from the
students. He said students must
remember that revisions in the
governmental processes can be
initiated by those outside
government.

He said that his experience as
a dorm counselor this year has
shown him confusion within the
freshmen class about the honor
system and that an effort to
clear up that confusion is one of
the major challenges of the EC
next year.

The duties of the student body
vice-president are chiefly to
serve as informal treasurer of
the student body and also to
serve as technical adviser to
defendants in closed honor
hearings.

In reference to the budget,
Judge said that any student

(continued on page 5)

 

A return of credibility to the
Executive Committee is the
major task for the 1983-84 EC in
the eyes of student body vice
presidential candidate Scott
Tilley.

Tilley, whose post-deadline
petition was excepted by the EC
last night, regards the recent
struggles on the part of the EC
in public honor trials as a detri-
ment to the credibility of the
student government.

Although he cites no specific
problems with the current EC
leadership, he said he feels that
student support for the honor
system has waned as a result of
the challenge to the EC in public
honor trials.

His objective as student body
vice-president, he said, would
be to find ways to return
authority to the EC in an effort
to reestablish the student sup-
port for the honor system.

One of the responsibilities of
the EC vice-president is to be
technical advisor in closed
honor hearings with a deep
familiarity with the White
Book, the EC’s constitution.

Tilley said that he would
stress a close look at the codes
in the White Book to find ways
of raising the EC’s credibilty.

Tilley, a sophomore, has serv-
ed otherwise as acting presi-
dent of the College Republicans,
Features Editor of the Ring-
tum Phi, and is a member of the
InverVarsity Christian
Fellowship.

!

t Howard

lone
secretary

candidate

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi EC Correspondent

Better student orientation to
the honor system and percen-
tage allotments for organiza-
tions are goals of Len Howard,
junior, candidate for Executive
Committee secretary.

Howard, the only declared
candidate for the office,
presented his ideas at the “Big
Three” forum Tuesday after-
noon.

“T’ve heard some disturbing
comments this year from fresh-
men that make me wonder if
they understand what the honor
system is all about,”’ Howard
said.

He proposed to investigate
the possibility of staging a mock
honor hearing at freshman
orientation and wants a more
comprehensive honor orienta-
tion for first year law students.
According to Howard, students
coming to Washington and Lee
don’t completely understand
the honor system.

“TI came to W&L because of
the honor system. It could be a
big drawing card for students,”’
commented Howard, who is ser-
ving on the White Book revi-
sions committee as well as the
Student Recruitment Commit-
tee and the Student Activities
Board.

In order to alleviate
budgetary problems, Howard
proposed that there be a preset
formula based on the number of
students benefitted by each
organization. This percentage

(continued on page 5)

 

 

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi News Editor

The honor code and the
budget are the two main issues
facing the four candidates for
Executive Committee president
this year.

The four candidates, Bob
Jenevein, Markham Pyle, Mike

we Singer, and Gov Slahor, met
jwith members of the student

body and answered questions
concerning the issues.

Markham Pyle has been in
charge of finances for the
Muscular Dystrophy Super-
dance and is currently on the
White Book Revisions Commit-
tee. Pyle said that there has
been an increase in legalism
concerning the honor system
and that honor trials had
become courts of law rather
than courts of fact.

When asked about the grow-
ing number of clubs asking the
EC for funds, Pyle replied,
‘“You’re going to have to look at
(the club’s) purpose. There
comes a point when you're go-
ing to have to sharpen the hat-
chet.”

Regarding the separation of
the law and undergraduate
campuses, Pyle said that he
understood that General Lee
had intended that the two
schools coexist. ‘‘We have a lot
to gain from this interming]l-
ing,’’ Pyle said.

Gov Slahor referred to
several business ventures as
showing his qualifications but
refused to elaborate on them
when pressed as to their

Four candidates vie
for EC presidency

specific nature.

Slahor said that he thought
the EC should be more open-
minded in its honor-related ac-
tivities and listed things he
hoped to accomplish should he
be elected.

—More low-interest loans to
fraternities,

—attempt to gain direct ac-
cess to alumni funds,

—solve campus parking pro-
blems,

—and, create a commission
comprised of townspeople, the
police department, and frater-
nities to work out any problems.

Slahor emphasized that he
hoped the use of alumni funds
would increase the number of
clubs receiving money from the
EC. Slahor hopes to run the ad-
ministrative side of the EC as a
business.

Mike Singer is the only can-
didate with hands-on EC ex-
perience, having served as
secretary this year.

Singer said that he believed
the EC has been and will con-
tinue to be effective. Just as he
did last year, Singer is em-
phasizing communications as
an answer to many campus pro-
blems. Improved communica-
tion will lessen the gap between
the law and undergraduate
campuses according to Singer.

When the discussion centered
on student apathy and the lack
of participation in elections and
other EC events, Singer said,

‘Apathy is going to be
wherever student government

¢ ”

(continued on page 5)

 

 

Inside

Fancy Dress
....center section

Lacrosse preview

page 7

EC reviewed.....page 2
EC Elections Monday

 

 
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1983

 

 

Editorial :

EC at midterm:
a critical assessment

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi News Editor

The first half of the year is the
busiest for the Executive com-
mittee. The EC allocates stu-
dent funds, works out beginning
of the year problems, and this
year reviewed proposed cur-
riculum requirements.

After covering the EC for the
last four months, I have review-
ed my notes and written this
fair — if not complementary —
evaluation of their performance
as individuals and as a whole.

The Big Three:
Mike Singer, Morgan Griffith
and Bennett Ross

Junior Mike Singer was
elected secretary of the Ex-
ecutive Committee. His most
visible duties are keeping the
minutes of the meetings and
publicizing EC events. A less
explicit aspect of his job as a
member of the Big Three is to
help President Bennett Ross
and Vice President Morgan
Griffith in presenting an aura of
leadership. Griffith does this ef-
fectively and has an air of
authority about him. Singer,
however, has failed. Part of the
problem may be that this is
Singer’s first year on the com-
mittee. Nevertheless,
sometimes it seems like Singer
is speaking just to speak and not
really thinking about what he is
saying. During a discussion on
curriculum requirements
Singer said, “I think they’re
favoring the arts over the social
sciences, and I think that is
favoritism.” Tautological com-

Letters:

No alcohol at
Glen Maury

A Letter to the Student Body:

The W&L lacrosse program
has been very fortunate to have
the use of Glen Maury Park in
Buena Vista for practices and
games.

Our field facilities are often
under water, snow, ice, or mud
in February and early March
and Glen Maury is dry at the
same time. Without the use of
this field our program would be
hard pressed to accomplish
anything practicing in the gym.

We appeal to you, our
students, to abide by the no
alcohol ordinance endorsed by
Buena Vista when you attend
games at Glen Maury. I am
sure that any problems with
alcohol will terminate our
association with Buena Vista
and their park.

We need their facility to be
successful, and Buena Vista
does not need us. They are

ments like this are un-
necessary.

Only in the intangible aspects
of the job has Singer failed. He
has done a good job of keeping
minutes and publicizing EC ac-
tivities and subcommittee ap-
pointments.

Vice president Morgan Grif-
fith, a third-year law student is
one of the several thoughtful
members of the committee.
This pensive attitude produces
exacting and incisive com-
ments concerning the matters
before the committee.

When the committee was
arguing over the specific cur-
riculum requirements as pro-
posed by the faculty executive
committee, Griffith suggested
that the committee vote on the
theory of the proposal rather
than wallow in the numbers of
credits. This put the committee
on a more direct and fruitful
track.

Commenting on the frater-
nities’ need for Contact, Griffith
said, ‘“‘What else do they (the
fraternities) do besides pick up
their trash? This is good PR for
them.”

As vice president, Griffith is
in charge of keeping up with the
funds of the various campus
organizations. He has been
eager to work with organiza-
tions whose books do not jibe
with the university computer
account records.

Griffith has done an excellent
job so far and has aided Ross in

simply doing us a favor without
really getting anything in
return, Any problems, and I’m
sure they will decide to close the
park to our use.

Please help us show our ap-
preciation by leaving the
alcohol and beer at home.
Thank you.

Sincerely,
Jack Emmer, Staff
and Team

V-P Griffith

supports Singer

To The Editor:

I hope that the students of
Washington and Lee take the
upcoming election for President
of the Executive Committee
very seriously. The one
candidate who has experience
and has shown that he is willing
to dedicate long hours to see
that the EC does its job is Mike
Singer I hope that all of the
students of Washington and Lee
will seriously consider voting
for Mike.

Morgan Griffith
V-President of
The Exec. Committee

putting forth an aura of leader-
ship.
President Bennett Ross has
been a confident leader through
his first four-and-a-half months
in office. This attitude was pro-
bably best conveyed in a com-
ment he made during the
debate over the Fancy Dress
Weekend date. Before the com-
mittee voted to have the event
on the scheduled weekend, Ross
said, ‘‘I know we’ll make the
right decision.”

His confidence has some-
times bordered on stubborness,
however. At one point after the
voting on a specific curriculum
requirement, Ross told the com-
mittee that they had made a
“terrible mistake.”

For the most part, Ross has
been open-minded and cautious.
He has not hesitated to table a
motion until student opinion has
been ascertained. He has also
kept a watchful eye on the Stu-
dent Association for Black Uni-
ty and was instrumental in set-

Notice

Classes
changed

At 11:45 a.m. on Tuesday,
March 1, Dr. Van Doorn Ooms,
Chief Economist for. the U.S.
House of Representatives’
Budget Committee, will deliver
the annual Phi Beta Kappa ad-
dress in Lee Chapel. In order
that faculty and students may
be free to hear his address, the
following schedule of classes
will be observed.

A-D - Nochange
Assembly: 11:45
E- 1:15-1:55
F- 2-2:40
G- 2:45-3:25
H- 3:30-4:10
I- 4:15-4:55
J- 5-5:40

Dr. Oom’s address is entitled
‘Public Policy and Public
Debate.”

All students and_ faculty
members are cordially invited
and encouraged to attend.

John D. Wilson

CMT

_— a
=

U7) rT

 

‘HOW'M | DOIN‘?!

ting up the liaison between Con-
tact and SABU. SABU has so far
not taken advantage of this op-
portunity. Ross recognized that
W&L’s black population is being
neglected and that there was a
need for a committment to this
group of students.

Ross has done a good job so

' far this year and it is apparent

that he is working to find a
balance between confidence
and stubborness.

eThe Law Reps:
Ken Terwilleger and John
Sicilian

Terwilleger and Sicilian com-
prise the law delegation to the
committee. Both are ‘staunch
advocates of ‘Law School
rights.”” Sicilian, though, has
been less vocal perhaps
because this is his first year.
But he has not hesitated to
speak his mind when sure of his
ground.

Terwilleger has advocated a
closer relationship between the
law and undergraduate cam-

puses. Terwilleger transferred
to W&L for undergraduate work
before going on to W&L law.

During the budget hearings,
Terwilleger said, “If there’s a
chasm, let’s not say to hell with
it. Let’s not pull the rug out
from under one side of the cam-
pus.”

The Senior Reps:
John Vlahoplus and Pete
Baumgaertner

Arguing honor trials for the
EC has taught John Vlahoplus
that he doesn’t want to practice —
trial law. Vlahoplus is perhaps
one of the most argumentative
members of the committee and
is aided by a sharp mind and
logical, thorough reasoning.

Though he sometimes ap-
pears inattentive, he rarely
fails‘ to make a helpful com-
ment.

Baumgaertner, on the other
hand, is quieter — especially for
a senior. So far this year he-has
appeared to represent the

(continued on page 4)

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

Pte hei ssn i pais i inn c is G84 090 Codgnapsetrdaltoascvetsing Bill Roberts
Business Manager .........cccccccsiccsccbeccesccnvsceseressececsetsces Steve Perry
News Editors... 0c ctincccccscvccctecvecssiaueteovese John Cleghorn, Rick Swagler
LOyOut BEN ioc cece ccc ceccccenscesnctiehapasectebisacnweserene Jim Laurie
Sporte EGO oo cc ic ccs ccc ecccccccccccvcveeieeemovssscecoceseeesessons Lee Nichols
Assistant Sports Editor ..........0ccccccceeeeeceeeneseseeeeeeeeunes Mike Stachura
Head Photographer ..........s:cscseeeccecenceeeeeetseeeeseeeereeeens Dave Stevens
PRORSGTOINOTS 00. c cic cccccseccicccctcrsevssccsvececones Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller
Bihetatrmnent MANN ic.kia oc ais cts'0. 0 0 os ogg tc ctr 6 000 pen boen bie iet tents oe Paul Casey
Assistant Entertainment Editor ..............sceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeece David W. Johnston
OIG 6 s0 5 56 0s a Conds Chasen csetesiesscieeee Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,
Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter, Allen Roberts,
Rob Schlegal, B. Scott Tilley

Advertising Manager .....ccscccrcccccrcccscscccccccccvecececeseevens Tom O’Brien
ABGAMODIOR 0 cc rccsscccccccescepecccccsscouce Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
Circulation Mamaget oo... cc ccccc cece cccsccverecccvecsseseesecevesesere Jim Wood
Cerdellten MANE cin scsi cvesncccsccccceseccCetuesederines Greg Aydt, Todd Barstow

The Ring-tum Phiis published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run, This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1983, Page 3

 

 

EC hears SAB report

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi EC Correspondent

“A few surprises’’ will be in
store for students and alumni
attending next weekend’s Fan-
cy Dress Ball, according to Stu-
dent Activities Board Chairman
Lanier Edge.

Edge was presenting the
SAB’s financial report to the
Executive Committee at their
regular meeting Monday night.
He was joined by represen-
tatives of SABU, the Mock Con-
vention and even the EC itself.

Nearly 200 of the 1,085 T-
shirts ordered had been sold on
the first day of their availabili-
ty, according to Edge. Tickets
for the ball, grain cups and
posters will go on sale next
week. However, about 100 alum-
ni have already purchased
tickets at an expected profit of
$2,500,

Two bands will be on the
agenda Thursday night in
Evans Dining Hall to kick off
the weekend. Edge said that
Dean John would not give his
approval to holding that party
at Zollman’s Pavilion because
of the problems involved with

budget report. The committee
only has $915 left in its funding
account and $862 left in its ex-
penses allocation. They do have
areserve of $3,500.

The two public honor hear-

. ings have “‘inflated’’ the prin-

ting and supplies costs, accord-
ing to Griffith, who said, ‘‘If we
have another public honor hear-
ing, we’re in the red.”’

' It was exactly that worry that
caused the EC to chop down the
International Club’s request for
$300 to help with International
day Sunday.

Henry Baey, president of the
club, indicated that Interna-
tional Day would cost $735, in-
cluding $455 for a group of folk
dancers from James Madison
University. Baey indicated that
he could get some financial help
from the Dean of Students of-
fice, but he said, ‘‘What a club
can do should not be limited by
the amount of money it is giveh
by the EC.”’

Baey’s request was reduced

because, as Griffith put it
“They knew about. Interna-
because, as Griffith put it,
“they knew about Interna-
tional Day at the beginning of
the year” when original budget
requests were made.

Law school Representative
Ken Terwilleger encouraged
Baey ‘‘to look elsewhere’’ for
funds, and President Bennett
Ross said, ‘I don’t. think they
should rely on the EC to fund In-
ternational Day so they can

: E.C. members left to right, Ken Terwilleger, Pete Baumgaertner, Scott Mason.

have money left over after-
wards.”

The committee voted 7-4 to
allot $150 for International Day.
Griffith, Terwilleger,
sophomore’ Representative
Dave Jonson and freshman
Representative Steve Connett
voted against the motion.

Junior representative Scott
Mason suggested that the EC
look into getting a ‘blanket
school policy”’ on the reschedul-
ing of exams. Mason’s proposal

   

would not allow students to

- change the time of an exam
_ after the Friday preceding the

exam period, except in emer-
gencies.

Mason and senior represen-
tative Pete Baumgaertner will
serve on a subcommittee to
study the idea. The motion to
form that subcommittee passed
83 with junior representative
Ted McQuiston, Terwilleger
and senior representative John
Viahoplus opposed.

   

obtaining a banquet permit. ¥% 3
Nonetheling ths Sptardey ¥¢ THE FLOWER CENTER ¢
lca ee 223 SOUTH MAIN STREET z
a e Favilion. AR ae
"oe asked the EC to help Fe LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

defray the costs of alternate
beverages with money from its
Alcohol Awareness fund. In-
stead, the committee decided to
sponsor an advertisement in the
playbill discouraging students
from drinking and driving. :

Robert Stephen, president of
SABU, apologized for not hav-
ing presented his budget report
on time. He explained that the
group has lined up Carol Simp-
son to speak on March 15 and
that the SABU Ball would be

held on March 19.
Several EC members voiced

concern over the Simpson
speech, which will cost $2,900.
SABU was supposed to work :;
with Contact to arrange a
speaker, but the Simpson
speech was originally slated for
March 17, the same night as
Contact’s John Erlichman-
Eugene McCarthy debate. Also,
funding for the speech had not
yet been arranged with Contact.

Mock Convention UCo-
chairman Steve Lewis said that
the steering committee has
been selected and that a
meeting for people interested in
state chairmanships will be
held Wednesday, March 2.

A computer kit to run the
scoreboard at the convention
has been purchased at a cost of
$100. Lewis indicated that there
will probably not be any

(703) 463-4521

FEE

FE

Cnhance Youn Cvening With Fresh Howens for Youn Date
Onchids, Roses, Gardenias, and Carnations Available

Place Youn Ondens Canty

Open 8.7 Monday thru Saturday
oe Open until 9 pm on the Thansday of Fancy dress
ESE RET ERER Ete spe Rene pete ae rete eL tee te 9 84 te pe RE te te te te te ete pepe re te te te
TED’S Hopes All W-L 4
Students And Alumni fj
Have A Great Fancy Dress +

Weekend.

PESESE

FBRBBBBE

 

 

IBBBBBRBBBEE

FE

+

    
  
 
  
  
  

a

Lied ee ah ee es

 

Come See The Convertibles
On The Saturday Of Fancy Dress

t

 
 
 

 

‘ yA
speakers this year, but that the $ 2 c
convention would sponsor at h Over
least three in conjunction with a
Ua

Contact before the May 1984

convention.
Morgan Griffith, vice-
president, presented the EC’s

“He Happy Hour 4:30-6:30 Mon. & Fri.
pe 9:30-11:00 Mon. thru Fri.

 

 

ty AT
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1983

 

 

EC out of control

(continued from page 2)

Athletic lobby on the commit-
tee. He first asked that athletes
who would miss Fancy Dress
because of scheduling be given
a monetary allowance, and
later he called for safer equip-
ment in the weight room.

Baumgaertner has been a
good, though not outstanding,
member of the EC and has a
good rapport with the students
he represents.
eThe Junior Reps:

Scott Mason and Ted McQuiston

As a journalism major, Scott
Mason is aware of how the
public perceives the EC’s ac-
tions. Perhaps it was this
awareness that prompted him
to comment that it ‘looks bet-
ter’ to have the budget hear-
ings on two nights.

Though he is quiet at
meetings, he is not without ac-
complishment. He and soph-
omore representative Dave

Jonson succeeded in having the
drip/add fee reduced from $10

to $5.
To be a more effective
representative, Mason needs to

WHITE FRONT

speak up more in meetings.
Silence limits the committee’s
knowledge of student opinion.
Ted McQuiston is not afraid to
let other members know how he

feels and as a result is the more -

outspoken of the junior repre-
sentatives. This may be in part
due to his experience as an EC
member last year.

During the discussion of the
FD date, McQuiston said, ‘‘I’d
feel uneasy casting my vote on
what I’ve heard tonight.”’

McQuiston has also worked
hard in researching the
feasability of student identifica-
tion cards with photographs.

During budget hearings, both
of McQuiston’s. motions for
allocations — $1200 to the Inter-
national Club and $500 to the
Outing Club — were each cut
$100. This and a suggestion that
student taxes might need to be
raised more than the proposed
$5 to accommodate Mock Con-
vention betrayed a generosity
not characteristic of a money-
tight EC. :
eThe Sophomore Reps:

Dave Jonson and Darby Brower

Regarding their perfor-

mances so far on the EC, Jon-
son and Brower are at opposite
ends of the spectrum.

Jonson has apparently had
trouble in keeping up with the
business at hand. During the
budget hearings, he spent time
drawing Mercedes-Benz
emblems on his note pad while
clubs were making requests.

During the discussion of a let-
ter the EC was preparing to
send to the faculty concerning
the curriculum, Jonson asked
that the spelling of a word be
corrected, not knowing that the
entire sentence had been taken
out of the letter several minutes
earlier.

When Kevin Kelley, soph-
omore class president, asked
the committee for a loan to
cover expenses for the
sophomore class Homecoming
party until revenues came in,
Jonson suggested that the
money be invested. This oc-
cured about two weeks before
Homecoming. Jonson said he
thought Kelley was referring to
the Fancy Dress party.

Jonson, however, teamed up
with Mason in the successful

SUPER MARKET

167 S Main St.

  

463-3106

 

‘Shop where Student Charge
Accounts are welcome’”’

 

Prices will be in next week’s ‘Phi’ on
items for your Fancy Dress Weekend—

Korbel Champagnes , Peeled and Deviled
Shrimp, Beer, Mixers, and Gallo Wine

 

Open an account for your Fancy Dress
needs and for spring lacrosse games, parties

 

We have a full line of cups, ice, nuts,
and chips for all your party

HN

needs

drive to have the drop/add fee
lowered.

Jonson rarely speaks, and
when he does one never knows
what to expect. The sophomore
class needs a more attentive
and vocal representative.

Darby Brower is an especial-
ly vocal and_ hard-working
member considering this is just
his first year as a represen-
tative. Brower has a_ dog-
gedness about him that is con-
sistently brought out in his work
for the committee. Whether he
is helping organize the alcohol
awareness week or questioning
a committee chairman, Brower
is thorough.

Most evident, though, is his
desire to keep the committee
from straying from the subject.
Brower’s arguments are to the
point and consequently, he
wants the committee’s to be
direct also. This is the type of
leader the EC will look to in the
future.

The Freshman Rep:
Steve Connett

Steve Connett is in the same
position as John Sicilian: who’s
learning on the job. So far, Con-
nett has not been afraid to take
responsibility. He investigated
a complaint regarding the laun-
dry facilities in the freshman
dorm and reported his findings
to the committee earlier this
term. While laundry room in-
vestigations may seem minor,

keep in mind that Connett is on-
ly a freshman and is just learn-
ing the ropes. Although it is too
early to guess at his potential,
he is certainly a member to
watch.

Overview

As a whole, the EC has been
moderately effective. The
drop/add fee reduction, the
organization for monthly
reports and the general. high
caliber of the _ individual
members have been signs of a
good EC. The picture, though, is
not completely bright.

Just as something was miss-
ing from last year’s EC,
something is missing from this
year’s. It can probably be trac-
ed to decorum. Perhaps Ross is
leery of appearing heavy-
handed. Whatever the cause,
too many individual conversa-
tions take place during the
meetings and it appears that
the committee is sometimes
less than interested. This is not
to say that the EC room is no
place for friendly humor. The
Calyx for example has reported
to the EC several times on the
status of the ‘Calyx stretch
limousine.”’

In a word, Ross needs to exer-
cise more control. Diversity of
committee members can be a
virtue, but it can also make the
group unmanageable when
business is at hand. Internal
control will be the key for the
remainder of the year.

Economist to speak
in Lee Chapel

Van Doorn Ooms, chief
economist for the U.S. House of
Representatives Budget Com-
mittee, will be the principal
speaker for the annual Phi Beta
Kappa Convocation at
Washington and Lee University
on Tuesday, March 1, in Lee
Chapel.

The convocation will begin at
11:45 a.m. Newly-elected
members of Washington and
Lee’s Gamma of Virginia
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will
be recognized at the convoca-
tion and will be formally in-
itiated into the chapter later in
the day.

The public is invited to attend
the convocation.

Ooms’ address is entitled
“Public Policy and Public
Debate.”’

A summa cum iaude
graduate of Amherst and a
Rhodes Scholar, Ooms _ has
taught economics at Yale and
Swarthmore as well as serving
as an economist with several
government agencies.

He studied English at Oxford
as a Rhodes. Scholar and later
received both the M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees in economics
from Yale.

Ooms taught at Yale from
1962 to 1968 and at Swarthmore
from 1968 to 1978.

The Gamma of Virginia
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was
installed at Washington and Lee
in 1911. Each year. the chapter
elects a limited number of
students whose academic
records and character are
superior.

    

re. SOE: COOK. Br HB > fs RRO IO "OBR: SDK: aes ’

APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR

Above Lois’ Restaurant,
Across from Leggett on Main St.

y $175/month 12 mo. lease

CALL: Edward E. Smith
463-4583 after4p.m. ©

ban : AB OR: debe: SE eK ORK: . ee I< ea \ RK:

PHONE 463-7019

S—>

S& S Auto Repait

   
  
 

  
 

| VARNER }
& POLE

115 South Main Street

   

—

atl

    

   

 

  

GENERAL REPAIR

=>_-_

    
 

  

For your extra
pieces of furniture.

x

m3

cea

   
   

730 S MAIN
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

JOHN W. STATON
Owner

   

Mi
N

 
 

Paul Wenske

Stock market analyst

speaks tonight

Stock market analyst Paul
Wenske will examine the cur-
rent condition of Wall Street
when he presents a lecture en-
titled “Flying High on Wall
Street’’ at 8 p.m. on Thursday,
February 24, in Lee Chapel on
the Washington and Lee Univer-

sity campus.

In addition to providing
helpful insights into investment
techniques, Wenske will discuss
the current state of the stock
market and the trends he sees
in the future.

 

candidates

(continued from page 1)

Bob Jenevein is junior class
president and. consequently a
member of the student control
committee. Jenevein was the
quietest of the four candidates
for president.

“I’m an honorable person. I
don’t mind saying that,” he said
when the discussion turned to

Judge

(continued from page 1)

organization which proves its
intentions worthy deserves
funding from the EC. This state-
ment came in context of a floor
debate on general budgetary
matters. He added that he
would advocate alternative
avenues to student activities
funding which presently is total-
ly composed by student taxes.
Judge’s other experience in-
cludes service on the University
Council and two seasons as a
member of the football team.

 

the honor system.
Regarding the law and
undergraduate campuses,

Jenevein said, “I don’t see a
real big problem there. I don’t
think they miss the undergrads
anymore than the undergrads
miss them.”

Howard

(continued from page 1)
allotment would determine
about 75 percent of the club’s
total allocation. The remainder
would be left to the discretion of
the EC.

“The budgetary axe will not
fall in the correct place all the
time,” Howard said. “Par-
ticipation should be the number
one priority.”

On student apathy, Howard
said, ‘Theoretically, there
should be no student apathy.”
He would “try to stimulate stu-
dent interest’ in elections.

 

 

late March.

 

* & NOTICE * *&

Applications are now being received for the position of
Admissions Counselor—the position currently held by
Michael Perry—for the 1983-84 academic year.

Any graduating senior who is interested in being considered
for this position should submit a letter of application to the
Office of Admissions in Washington Hall 25 by March 11, 1983.
A personal interview for each applicant will be scheduled in

WILLIAMM. HARTOG
Director of Admissions

The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1983, Page 5

Law students offer tax help

Seventeen Washington and
Lee University law students
will provide free income tax
preparation assistance to
Rockbridge County residents
beginning Saturday, February
19.

The Volunteer Income Tax
Assistance (VITA) program is
sponsored by the Taxpayer
Assistance Division of the Inter-
nal Revenue Service.

According to Alan Munro, a
third-year W&L law student
who initiated the VITA program
in Lexington last year, the ser-

Film Society

vice is designed for taxpayers
whose annual income was in the
general range of $10,000 or less
for individual returns or $15,000
or less for joint returns.

Munro indicated’ that
volunteers will be available to
answer questions about general
tax matters not specifically
related to the tax return.

Those taxpayers who wish to
take advantage of the VITA ser-
vice must bring all W-2 forms
with them. If they have been
receiving unemployment com-
pensation, the taxpayers should
bring their 1099-UC forms. Par-

‘My Brilliant Career’

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the 1980
Australian film “My Brilliant
Career’’ on Friday and Satur-
day, February 25 and 26.

Screenings will be at 8 p.m.
each evening in Classroom A of
Lewis Hall, the W&L law school
building. There is no charge for
admission. The public is in-
vited.

“‘My Brilliant Career” is con-
sidered one of the best of a re-
cent wave of films « from
Australia. It is based upon an
autobiographical novel first
published in 1901. The book’s
author, Miles Franklin, was

born and raised in the
Australian outback in the late
19th century.

According to Richard Grefe,
faculty adviser to the
Washington and Lee Film

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia

 

 

Friends don’t
let friends

drive

drunk.

 

 

 

Society, the story of ‘My
Brilliant Career” is not only
that of the ‘‘coming of age’’ of a
young woman but “‘is also the
story of a very determined and
independent spirit. The heroine,
Sybilla, is resolved to become a
writer and repeatedly must
resist the temptations and
pressures of social conformi-

“My Brilliant Career’ is
sparked by the performance of
Judy Davis, who recently star-
red in the BBC production of
Shakespeare’s ‘‘The Merry

. Wives of Windsor.’’

The- production of ‘My
Brilliant Career’? has been
critically acclaimed for the deft
work of director Gillian Arm-
strong. The film runs 101
minutes.

ticipants are also encouraged to
bring copies of their completed
forms from 1981, their new tax
forms, and any other relevant
financial data.

Though the volunteer tax
preparers will check all of the
returns they help complete for
errors in. mathematics and
substance, the taxpayers who
use the VITA services are
responsible for the content of
their returns.

VITA will be located in the
Legal Aid Society office at 203
North Main Street in Lexington.

 

 

W&L, VMI
host

literature
conference

The ninth annual conference
of the Southern Comparative
Literature Association will be
held on the campuses _ of
Virginia Military Institute and
Washington and Lee University
this month.

The three-day conference,
which is expected to attract ap-
proximately 100 members of the
SCLA, will take place February
24-26. The department of
modern languages at VMI and
the department of romance
languages at W&L will be hosts
for the event.

 

Chinese, Polynesian, and
American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 

 

Make Reservations Early
for Fancy Dress

 

 

“‘Carry-out Available’’

Open Tuesday through Sunday
Luncheon 11:30-2:30

Dinner 5-10

Open Saturday 4-10
Sun. Buffet 12-2:30—$4.25

 

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

 

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1983

 

Maryville tonight

 

Cagers host ODAC game

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Despite losing two of its final
three Old Dominion Athletic
Conference games, the Wash-
ington and Lee basketball team
earned the right to host a
quarterfinal game of ODAC
tournament tonight.

W&L defeated Eastern Men-
nonite College last week, but
lost league games against
Roanoke and Maryville and a
non-league game_ against
Shenandoah College to finish
the regular season with a 9-7
record in the ODAC and an
overall mark of. 16-9. The
Generals are seeded fourth in
the eight team ODAC tourna-
ment.

“I feel good that we are play-
ing up here, but I don’t feel good
that we are playing Maryville,”
stated W&L Coach Verne Can-
field.

“This is the time of year when
basketball is a mental game,”’
Canfield said. ‘‘It would be un-
wise to think that just because it
is ahome game we are going to
win this,’’ Canfield stated con-
cerning the Maryville game.

W&L’s regular season-ending
four game road trip began on a
sour note with an 82-66 loss to
Shenandoah College on Feb. 10.
The Generals held a 36-28 lead
at halftime, but Shenandoah
outscored W&L 21-2 over a 13-
minute stretch of the second
half to claim the victory.

Senior Brian Hanson led the
Generals in scoring with 20
points. Junior John Lee Graves
and senior Frank Eppes both
tossed in 14 points.

Second-ranked nationally
Roanoke College defeated the
Generals 106-88 to sweep the
regular season series with
W&L.

Roanoke held a commanding

 

 

 

 

  

 

uccdays

IN

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

THE
WHITE

ANIMALS

   

 

 

 

 

"It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 

2 ee ee en ee ae i ee i a 2

 

TT
ee atl

ye

 

 

 

 

40-18 lead with six minutes to
play in the first half. However,
W&L outscored the Maroons
19-7 in the closing minutes of the
half to narrow the halftime
deficit to 47-37.

W&L pulled to within four
points on three occassions in the
second half, but the Maroons
never let the Generals get any
closer than that.

Hanson led W&L with 25
points. Junior Billy Yates added
17 points, Graves 16 points, and
Eppes 15 points.

“Right now the ODAC is a
two-fold conference,’’ said Can-
field. ‘‘You’ve got Roanoke on
one hand, and the other eight
teams on the other hand,”’
stated Canfield about
Roanoke’s dominance of the
league.

W&L rebounded to edge
Eastern Mennonite 73-71 in a
crucial contest last Tuesay in
Harrisonburg.

W&L held a precarious 73-68
lead with 35 seconds left after
Graves hit a basket for the
Generals. Mennonite closed to
within two points on a three-
point basket, but missed two
shots in the closing seconds that
could have sent the game into
overtime.

Hanson again led the
Generals with 19 points. Frank
Eppes tossed in 14 points, and
Yates and sophomore David
Wilkinson both added 10 points.

   

 

 

 

Senior forward Brian Hanson was named first-team All-
Conference for the second straight season. Hanson, a four-year
starter, has played in every game since coming to W&L and
started in 99 of them. He has a career scoring average of 12.2 points
per game, and is currently eighth among W&L career scoring
leaders at 1319 points. (photo by Darryl Woodson)

 

W&L ended its regular season
on a losing note Friday when
the Generals lost 67-66 to
Maryville on a last second
basket in overtime.

W&L had led 66-65 with 23
seconds remaining in the over-
time period, but the Generals
missed a free throw with eight
seconds left and Maryville
grabbed the rebound. Mary-

SAFEWAY

ville’s Greg Gheen canned a 20-
foot jumper at the buzzer to
give the Scots the-win.

Hanson led the Generals in
scoring with 19 points.

Maryville will bring an
overall record of 12-13 into the
7:30 game with the Generals in
the Warner Center tonight.

Maryville is seeded fifth in the .

(continued on page 7)

Celebrating Fancy Dress

CHAMPAGNE

28.5 07. ee
or by the case $317)

| | ALMADEN |

MOUNTAIN
WINES

- 50.7 0z. Btls. fe he

TRL aad
ANDRE FRESH MADE

SAFEWAY
CHEESE PIZZAS

yA pow od | haa

DELI PARTY
TRAYS
Set to your Needs
(See our Deli for details)

| BUDWEISER
BEER
12-0z.—6-Pack Btls.

$29

KEG BEER
We stock a full

line of quarter
PVC MIE VI Merb uclE dc cm

 

 

 
 

Sports

The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1983, Page 7

 

Swimmers sparkle at invitational

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

After months of watching his
Generals improve, fourth-year
head coach Page Remillard got
what he termed a ‘“mega-
surprise’ as the W&L swim
team turned in fine perfor-
mance on top of fine perfor-
mance at the Seahawk Invita-
tional in Wilmington, North
Carolina.

Led by junior Gary Meyer
and freshman John Moody, the
Generals qualified for nationals
in four events. Meyer and
Moody made the time in the 50-
free and 100-fly, respectively.
The two then teamed with
sophomore Bobby Pearson and
freshman Tim Stanford to
qualify in both the 400- and 800-
free relays.

“They made it happen. If it
continues it will be what they
desire and what I expect,’’ said
Remillard, reflecting on last
weekend’s performances. He
had a noticeable smile as he

made his rounds at Tuesday
afternoon’s workout.

Freshman Moody had an ex-
cellent weekend in Wilmington,
qualifying for nationals in three
events, breaking a_ school
record in one and coming up
just shy of another school mark.
His 100-fly effort was faster
than classmate Stanford’s
record breaking performance
in December by .42 seconds.

‘“‘He’s been a very reliable
man this season and now he has
the rest of the team started
toward those national qualify-
ing times. He may just be the in-
troduction to what could happen
this weekend,” praised Coach
Remillard.

The team is looking to make
those times this weekend in
Blacksburg at the Virginia
Senior Championships. It’s
been a team effort as can be
seen in the practices and the
competitions, and now that
they’ve seen the hard work pay
off, Remillard and his swim-
mers want more.

‘“‘We want everyone to get
their lifetime best times and for
many that will qualify them for
nationals,” stated the Generals’
mentor.

“‘We’ll go faster this weekend
because of what we did last
weekend. The guys that are
close to their qualifying times
now are going to go faster,”
continued Remillard.

Other swimmers with com-
mendable performances in
Wilmington were junior captain
Tim Rock and freshman David
Lewis. Rock is closing in on the
NCAA standard times in the 400
IM and the 1,650-yard free.
Lewis has risen above his early
season difficulties to chop 24
seconds off his 100-yard free-
style time.

The Generals begin action
Friday in the three-day, 18-
event Virginia mune Cham-
pionships.

POOLSIDE: Meyer’s 21.66 in
the 50-free was .18 faster than
the NCAA standard while
Moody’s in the 100-fly was .25

Lacrosse team ready

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
lacrosse team will open its 12-
game schedule, which includes
eight home games and an ex-
hibition game, this Wednesday
when it takes on Duke Universi-
ty at 3 p.m. on Wilson Field. The
Generals defeated Duke in
Durham, 12-6, last season as
Geoff Wood led W&L with four
goals.

W&L head coach Jack Em-
mer said that the Blue Devils,
who finished last year with a
record of 6-7, are a young team
with only a few juniors and
seniors.

“They have a pretty good
group of freshmen,’’ said Em-
mer. “They might be ahead of
us in the number of games
they’ve had. Since their season
is over before most other
teams, they start practicing
right after the first of the year.
That puts them slightly ahead
of us,”’ he noted.

Emmer said he has not set a
lineup to start against Duke yet,
but said he was pleased with the
work of several players. last

20 West Washington St.

Lexington, Va.
463-4927

 

week when the squad practiced
in Florida.

“Kevin Walakovits, John But-
tarazzi and Barry Waterman
have shown encouraging signs’”’
at midfield, said Emmer.

On attack, he mentioned
Geoff Wood, Lee Heimert, Joe
Seifert and Jeff Mason. “Rod
Santomassimo has done a good
job, also,” he said.

In goal, Emmer said that ex-
perience from last season gives
Phil Aiken an edge over Mark
Lukes,

“John DiDuro has looked
good there,”’ as well, the coach
observed.

On defense, Emmer said he
will be relying first on veterans

 

 

Jones
Main Street
Service, Inc.
‘ VW Parts & Service

707 S. Main St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

463-3711

 

 

 

 

 

Newton Kendrick, Steve Con-
boy and converted middie Tim
Schurr. He added that junior
Roland Simon and freshman
Chris John have also shown pro-
mise.

Emmer said he has been hap-
py that the Generals have been
able to stay healthy throughout
the pre-season.

“It’s nice to come back from
those two-a-day practices in
Florida without any injuries,”
he remarked.

 

Cinema |

Buena Vista

Starts Friday

RICHARD PRYOR
JACKIE GLEASON

THE * 1 COMEDY TEAM IN AMERICA

 

Shows Sun.-Thurs. 7:15 p.m.
Fri., Sat. 7:15 and 9:00 p.m.
Mon. Night All Seats $1.50

 

 

 

SERVIOTAR:

LEXINGTON HARDWARE
463-2242

23 S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

seconds better than the national
mark. The 400-free relay team
was .6 seconds under the 3: 14.37
qualifying time. The 800-free
relay team bested the NCAA
time by .85 seconds...Rock is
just one second off the time
needed to qualify for the 1650-

free relay...Remillard cited the
help of Marybeth Powells dur-
ing the Invitational last
weekend...The Generals will
make their ninth straight ap-
pearance at nationals which
will be held in Cleveland, Ohio
on March 17-19.

 

The Washington and Lee
wrestling team concluded a suc-
cessful 9-2 season over the
holidays with a win over
Longwood College and a trip to
the NCAA Regionals. The
Generals edged the Lancers
24-23 in a classic come-from-
behind victory. Trailing 6-5,
heavy weight Carlton Peebles
executed a takedown with less
than ten seconds left to claim a
74 victory and also provide the
necessary team points for the
24-23 victory. Junior captain
Tim Valliere (167), freshman
Larry Anker (134), sophomore
Jeff Dixon (190) and freshman
Win Phillips also posted wins
against Longwood.

On Saturday five wrestlers
traveled to Trenton, N.J. to par-
ticipate with 12 colleges in ae

Hoops

(continued from page 6)
ODAC tournament, having lost
the chance to host a quarter-
final game when they lost by
one point to Bridgewater.

If the Generals defeat
Maryville, they will play the
winner of the Roanoke-Emory
& Henry game at 3 p.m. Satur-

 

 

Wrestlers conclude
lwinning season

NCAA Division III East
Regionals. Jeff Dixon earned
W&L’s highest finish: fourth
place at 190-lbs. Tim Valliere,
Brian Lifsted and Larry Anker
compiled 1-2 records, while
Peebles finished 0-2.

The 9-2 season record is the
seventh winning season for
coach Gary Franke in the ten
seasons. It is also his best.
W&L’s other victories came
over Hampden-Sydney (twice),
Lynchburg (twice), Davidson,
Loyola, Furman, and LaSalle.
Both losses were to division I
colleges, Duke and Campbell.

With only one senior
graduating (Win Sisson at 142)
Coach Franke is anticipating
another strong line-up next
winter.

 

day at the Roanoke County
Civic Center. The championship
game will be played Monday
night at 8:30 in the Civic Center.
Hampden-Sydney will host
Lynchburg, and Catholic
University will host Eastern
Mennonite in the other two
quarterfinal contests.

Sweet Briar College Presents

MARDI
GRAS

es “ae Pingley,

ALL YOU CAN EAT AND DRINK

SATURDAY,

FEBRUARY 26
7:30 to2am

$8.50 in advance
$10.00 at the door

College I.D. Required

 

FR rary
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1983

ES ate oes

EPL SOs <o7 nthe eee panes NICH PACIFIC
The Best Rock & Roll on the East Coast

    

Wildy $+ dens sap ae eae WHITE ANIMALS

Rock n Roll Extrodinaire

Sth aeons eae ee STEPS 10 pm—2 pm
You Loved Them at Super Dance—See
Them After Fancy Dress

Bt ee CLOSED FOR:
PRIVATE PARTY

: BEER SPECIAL — nek: Poe

ICE COLD BUSCH $2.39 A SIX pa
2

   

NATURAL LITE &
MILLER LITE $2.49

 

 

ining Tradition’

 

 

— FANCY DRESS FINALE—

BREAKFAST AT THE PALMS OrAn tS AT
12 MIDNITE 3

Eggs Benedict With
Complimentary Beverage $5.49/per person

 

———=__ RFCORDS

 

  

CHEERS AND BEST WISHES

For An Elegant

FANCY DRESS

Have A Great Evening!

 

 

   

CORNER4”

MARGARET
AND MARY

SA 7
Stop By For Your

LEXINGTON DRY GOODS COMPANY FD Cigars

On The Corner ©8000 000000000 00000000000008080008

 

   

 

 

;
eeees Oe eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee |
SSSSCSCSSSSS SCOSSOCSOSSSSSSSOOCCOSCCCOES rT EEE eee eee eee eee eee eee, as & b
  

VOLUME 82

NUMBER 20

mang ty

Ring-tum Phi...

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia March 3, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Twenty-eight|

elected to
Phi Beta
Kappa

Twenty-eight undergraduate
students at Washington and Lee
University and one 1982 W&L
graduate have been elected to
membership in the university’s
Gamma of Virginia Chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa.

In addition, Leonard E. Jar-
rard, professor of psychology at
W&L, has been elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa
as an honorary election.

The Gamma of Virginia
Chapter was installed at
Washington and Lee in 1911 and
annually elects a_ limited
number of students whose
academic record and character
are superior.

The new members were in-
ducted at the Phi Beta Kap-
pa/Cincinnati Society Convoca-
tion on Tuesday (March 1) in
Lee Chapel. The annual Phi
Beta Kappa address was
delivered by Van Doorn Ooms,
chief economist for the U‘S.
House of Representatives
Budget Committee.

Jarrard received the A.B.
degree in psychology from
Baylor University and earned
both the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in psychology from Carnegie-
Mellon University.

He has taught at Washington
and Lee sifice 1959 with the ex-
ception of five years from 1966
to 1970 when he was a professor
and later chairman of the
graduate program in
psychology at Carnegie-Mellon.

For the past 17 years Jarrard
has been conducting research
supported. by the National
Science Foundation into a seg-
ment of the brain known as the
hippocampus. He is the author
of numerous articles and has
won several awards for his
work, including a 1981 award
for ‘‘outstanding contribution to
psychology as a science’ from
the Virginia Psychological
Association.

The students elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa
this year were:

Seniors: William E. Alison Jr.
of Huntsville, Ala.; Peter A.
Baumgaertner of Syosset,
N.Y.; James E. Burt IV of
Shreveport, Va.; Steven D. Cor-
beille of Haymarket, Va.; Joel
A. Dunlap of Greenville, S.C.;
Vincent John Fechtel III of
Leesburg, Fla.; Stephen Paul
Geary of New Orleans; Stephen
K. Greene of Mountain Brook,
Ala.; Brian K. Holdaway of

(continued on page 8)

 

EC meeting

 

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi EC Correspondent

~

Dave Judge was elected vice-
president of the Executive Com-
mittee and Len Howard was
chosen as secretary in Mon-
day’s elections.

Current EC secretary Mike
Singer and junior class presi-
dent Bob Jenevein won posi-
tions in today’s runoff for EC
president.

Jenevein garnered 282 votes
and Singer 267 of the 742 cast for
the EC’s top spot, Markham
Pyle received 147 votes and Gov
Slahor won 44.

The vice-presidential race
centered around the EC’s
refusal to accept the late peti-
tions of Scott Tilley and Emory
Edwards. Therefore, the two
were forced to run as write-in
candidates. Tilly received 80
votes and Edwards 51, but
Judge easily ousted them with
484 votes.

Tilley submitted his petition

one day late, and EC President
Bennett Ross attempted a
phone vote of committee
members, to accept the petition
and put Tilley’s name on the
ballot. He explained, however,
“Since we did not have a
quorum present to do business,
several members of the com-
mittee wanted to discuss it and
challenge it. I had no choice but
to call a meeting.”

That special meeting was
held Thursday evening. In the
meantime, Edwards had also
submitted his petition. Only

eight of the 12 EC members
were present, and sophomore
Representative Darby
Browers’ motion to accept the
petitions was defeated 4-3.

Ted McQuiston, Morgan Grif-
fith and Pete Baumgaertner
supported the motion while
John Vlahoplus, Ross, Steve
Connett and Brower voted
againstit.

Singer abstained from voting.

Junior Representative Scott
Mason said at the regular Mon-
day meeting that he had not
been notified of the special
meeting. Mason said later that
he would have voted to accept
the petitions.

Ross’ reasoning generally
reflected that of those who join-
ed him in voting against accep-
ting the petitions. ‘‘The idea of
the deadline is to demonstrate
some kind of responsibility and
committment to seeking the of-

fice,’ he said. “Why have
deadlines if they ‘won’t be
upheld?”

Len Howard faced no

declared opposition for the
secretary’s post and won handi-
ly with 565 votes of the 599 cast.
The Monday meeting was not
much more than an assortment
of announcements and a report
from the Student Financial
Relations Committee, which
has picked up 113 checks so far
this year. The committee show-
ed a balance of $800, not in-
cluding an extra $200 that Ran-
dall Jacoby gave to an obvious-
ly pleased Griffith. EC funds
have been particulary tight this

 

(Phi staff photo by B. Roberts)

Judge and Howard elected|

year. ;

Funds for the Political
Review were frozen when that
group failed to present a budget
report. Only first-year law
Representative John Sancilian
voted against the motion.

Brower reported on the Honor
Conference at William and
Mary attended by several EC
members last weekend. Brower
said, ‘‘Our system really seem-
ed to rank above everybody
else’s.”’

Ross suggested that next
year’s committee look into the
feasibility of hosting the Honor
Conference.

Brower recommended that
the EC investigate the possibili-
ty of joining forces with VMI to
build a recreation area to take
the place of Zollman’s
Pavillion. ‘It’s a good way to
get the two schools together,”
he said. VMI, however, as an
historical landmark, is not
allowed to build on its property.

Senior representative
Baumgaertner suggested that
the EC worry about uniting the
undergraduate and the law
campuses before trying to hook
up with VMI.

The EC commended the Moot
Court team on its recent victory
at William and Mary over such
larger schools as Virginia and
Wake Forest. The fencing team
also received recognition for its
first victory over U.Va. since
1941,

and

McCarthy
to debate

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

John Ehrlichman and Eugene
McCarthy, once major figures
on the American political scene,
will appear on campus Thurs-
day, March 17. in a debate spon-

| sored by Contact.

Ehrlichman, a key aide to
former President Nixon, and
McCarthy, a Democratic
senator from Minnesota for 12
years ending in 1971, will speak
on the First Amendment in
Warner Center at 8 p.m. Con-
tact, the student organization
designed to make a wide range
of public speakers available to
the W&L community, will fund
the event, to which admission
will be free.

Mike Skardon, co-chairman
of Contact, said that the title for
the presentation will be, ‘‘Peo-
ple’s Right to Know: What Are
The Limits of First Amendment

Rights?”
Several topics were sug-
gested to Contact by the

speakers, and the students then
made a decision on the specific
subject for the _ debate.
Ehrlichman and McCarthy
spoke on a similar topic when
they recently debated in
Chicago.

Skardon said that¢the two will
cover ‘‘censorship and stuff like
that’’ and local journalists have
been invited to discuss the
“practical problems’’ involved
with the application of the free
press provision of the Constitu-
tion.

Contact’s other co-chairman,
Mike Drinkwater, said that
following the debate, the
speakers will accept questions
from the audience. He said that
the two will also be questioned
by ‘‘a board of several people”’
which will be composed of ‘‘a
few area news people, some
students, and some _ pro-
fessors.”’

The debate, Drinkwater said,
will cost Contact $8,000 plus
travel and lodging expenses for
Ehrlichman and McCarthy. He
said that the group obtained the
rights to the debate for Virginia
and Washington, D.C.

The Contact spokesman said
the debate is expected to draw
national media attention, with
Time and Playboy planning to
send correspondents.

“The booking agent with
whom we were working was

(continued on page 4)

 

Ehrlichman

|
=,

r A

>» wf
OW

Vv) —]
Xx) &

&)
i

~
UW

:
ls
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983

 

Opinion

 

 

Editorial

Press Freedom —.

By TED LeCLERCQ
Phi Staff Writer

A battle concerning freedom of the press moved in-
to a Washington, D.C. circuit courtroom. One main
principle entwined in the court controversy is
whether a student newspaper has the right of
‘freedom of speech” as guaranteed in the consitu-
tion. In effect, can a student newspaper publish
damaging, yet accurate facts about the university
with which is is affiliated without being censored or
closed.

Howard University President James Check decided
that the campus newspaper, Hilltop, could not print
material that damaged the university because it was
supported with university funds. Essentially, this
means the Howard University administration has
ultimate control (i.e. censorship) over the Hilltop.

According to the Washington Post, the hearing will
proceed on Thursday, February 24. Judge George
Goodrich will rule whether Janice McKnight should
be reinstated in school and as editor of the Hilltop.

McKnight was relieved of her editing post, and ex-
pelled from school on February 1, 1983. These ac-
tions came after McKnight published a series of ar-
ticles that president Cheek asked her to suppress.
Pressure was even placed on McKnight’s mother.
Carl Anderson, vice-president for student affairs, told
Mrs. McKnight that if her daughter didn’t stop the
Harris stories, her ‘‘career at Howard University, her
opportunities to attend graduate school and her future
career in journalism’”’ would be jeopardized.

The controversial articles involved a_ sex
discrimination suit brought by Michael Harris, a
Howard lawyer. The articles so disturbed the univer-
sity trustees that they set up a group of lawyers to
review and censor harmful articles that students
planned to run in the Hilltop.

The reason the university gave for expelling
McKnight, a senior, was that she failed to report a
year she spent at Syracuse University before attend-
ing Howard. When McKnight filled out the Howard
application, she failed to list her academically unsuc-
cessful year at Syracuse. This type of omission gives
Howard legitimate grounds to expel McKnight.

However, it did not give them grounds to censor
what the Hilltop printed. McKnight countered by fil-
ing suit. She asked in her suit to be reinstated as
editor and as a student.

On February 8, Judge Goodrich issued a temporary
order reinstating McKnight until a hearing could be
held. In issuing the temporary ruling, Judge Goodrich
said it was ‘a mighty strange coincidence’’ that
McKnight’s expulsion so closely followed the Harris
articles.

Judge Goodrich further ruled that the university
“cease and desist from interfering with (her) exer-
cise of free press rights guaranteed by the. . .United
States Constitution.”

At W&L, President John Wilson thinks that
“academic freedom, that is to say, the freedom of
faculty to teach, unimpeded by considerations of tact
or politics...is the essential feature of our corporate
life. To encroach upon the freedom of student editors
to pursue, in a responsible way, stories of interest to
the community is to erode that central dispensation —
i.e. academic freedom.”’

 
 
 

ss x
a

~
s ~

= 3
Hh, =
SOO GW. as merconen

Letter

pau

gh YoU KNOW. AS THEIR BANKER | Dyp

   

KANKE. THEM SOME Yon sae,
Sore a eae OF THAT
ww

et
Vv

)) ) F

     
 
 
 

Jonson’s EC role praised

To the Editor:
As indicated by the author,
the mid-term reviews of the
members of the Executive
Committee were, for the most
part, “fair and complimen-
tary.” The assessment, how-
ever, of Dave Jonson,
sophomore representative, was
neither fair nor accurate. As a
matter of fact, by understating
his accomplishments and con-
tributions to the Executive
Committee, Rick Swagler’s
review has done a grave disser-
vice to Dave Jonson and the
Sophomore class. Besides par-
ticipating in a successful drive
to have the drop-add fee
lowered, Mr. Jonson has in-

Literary.
Festival

Hollins College will host their
23rd annual Literary Festival
on Saturday, March 12.

Two Prizes of $100 will be
awarded to the best work of
short fiction and a chosen poem.
Discussions of the poems and
readings from the guests’ works
will begin at 10:30 a.m. Satur-
day in Babcock Auditorium. In
Addition, a production of Oscar
Wilde’s play, ‘‘The Importance
of Being Earnest,’ will be
presented in the Hollins Theatre
on March 10, 11, and 12.
Showtime is 8:15 p.m. and ad-
mission is $1.50 for students and
senior citizens ; $3 for others, To
reserve seats, call 703-362-6517
between 4 and 6 p.m. the week
before the production.

Poems submitted by under-
graduate writers will be
selected and discussed by a
panel of poets which includes
Diane Ackerman, Anthony
Hecht and Jeanne Larsen.

vestigated potential uses of the
University Breathalyzer, and
has led an evaluation of the
long-term effectiveness of. an
Alcohol Awareness program on
canipus. Moreover, Mr. Jonson
is currently serving as a
member of a subcommittee in-
vestigating the feasibility of an
on-campus recreation area and
is ad-hoc member of the Student
Control Committee.

It is an incorrect assumption,
on the part of Mr. Swagler, to
equate effectiveness with ver-
bosity. What the sophomore
class needs, and what it cur-
rently has in Dave Jonson, is a
representative who is willing to
make personal sacrifices and
who is committed to the perfor-

mance of his responsibilities.
Mr. Swagler has failed to
specify any adequate criterion,
other than personal opinions, by
which to evaluate Dave Jon-
son’s performance on_ this
year’s committee. Moreover,
Mr. Swagler neglects to men-
tion that his review was written
irrespective of any considera-
tion of Dave Jonson’s contribu-

_ tions in honor hearings or in the

investigation of honor offenses;

both of which have more bear-

ing on his performance as

sophomore representative than

drawing Mercedes-Benz
emblems during meetings.

Bennett L. Ross

Executive Committee

President

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

AROOF TM RIEE,. ois cei seccicgcacsnciiaces
Business Manager.................0sc0005
ps i eT eee ears
RAMEY 630 6 Eis 16 060.656 oaks beg iea aid
SUE ic Fas eer ses cetaanes
Assistant Sports Editor ....................
Head Photographer ...............eecesec
FMRI 5 iin cids cccac sci eccds sone

Entertainment Editor.....................
peng ere res Pr ree awh

Advertising Manager ............0.cce00c
POR ONONN «5 6-005 ek ocas Lins s Hesitoin
Cweulation Manager oo i. cccs ce civewecccces
UNO IE snc psc CF e RARE ue who's

 

Chasinae odes ges Erle ae tees Bill Roberts
niaielnetncs hv sees sapere ed Steve Perry
John Cleghorn, Allen Roberts, Rick Swagler
Pou rks ebb eee 104 ts cee Jim Laurie
haired at 8b ce ces cae eee Lee Nichols
iat ee cs cakes ct ebiias Mike Stachura
p bebe Fb gi ow eragetNed sca Dave Stevens
Keeht) Neseken cs Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

NS eig bib C140 asi David W. Johnston
Seabees Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,
Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter,
Rob Schlegal, B. Scott Tilley

coe 0 tire en coeded ab eel see Tom O’Brien

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
By MARK MITSCHOW
Special to the Phi

The Executive Committee is
beginning to run out of money
according to Morgan Griffith,
vice president of the commit-
tee.

The EC has three sources of
funds remaining. In the com-
mittee’s own operating budget
there is approximately $1,062.
In addition to this there is $915
in a fund for student groups in
financial trouble and $3,500 in
emergency funds. This leaves
the EC with about $5,500 out of a
total budget of $102,000 and an
EC budget of $2,800. ‘‘We’re low
on funds, but we should make it
without dipping into the

emergency fund,” Griffith said.
“I’ve never heard of the entire
student government running
out of money,”’ he added.

The primary drain on the
committee’s resources this
year has been been two expen-
sive public honor trials. While
the university pays for large ex-
penses such as_ providing
transcripts and paying expert
witnesses (such as handwriting
experts), the committee is
responsible for printing, sup-
plies and other minor bills.
While the cost for these
materials was substantial, Grif-

‘fith was unable to provide an

exact figure. ‘“‘That all gets
charged to supplies, printing

BRET

Morgan Griffith.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983, Page 3

SORA TELL LL ELLE LLL AIEEE NL LTT TE ELLE EL ET
EC scrapes the bottom of the bucket

and the like, so I can’t tell you
exactly how much each trial
cost,’’ he said.

Another big drain was last
year’s Fancy Dress Ball, which
ran heavily in the red. ‘‘That
FD fiasco cost us some valuable
fat, but even then we didn’t go
in the red,”’ Griffith explained.

The state of the emergency
fund reflects that drain. In 1977,
when the committee feared a
possible breach of contract suit
from a local band, the fund was

_at $17,000. Since then, however,

the EC has shaved the fund
down to its present $3,500. To
repair this situation Griffith is
proposing that the committee
increase the EC’s allotment by
adding $4,500 to the emergency

fund.
The EC has already taken

some action to meet the pro-
blem. Since the entire budget
for student activities comes
from the mandatory fees paid
by all students, the committee
has decided to increase next
year’s fee by $10. Five dollars of
this will go to the mock conven-
tion while the remainder will go
toward funding activities.

What would happen if there
were another honor trial or
other expense that put the com-
mittee into the red? Griffith
replied, “‘If we run out of money
I do believe that the university
would bail us out. I have no way
of knowing this for sure,
however.”’

Draft report for University Scholars program

(Editor’s note: The following
is a preliminary draft of a
report from the faculty Com-
mittee on Honors and Capstone
Courses. “We are circulating
this draft of our report in order
to solicit opinions which we
might incorporate into a final
report to be submitted to the
faculty for action,” the Com-
mittee wrote in a letter to the
Phi. “We would encourage
discussion of the suggestions of
the report within the University
community, and the com-
munication of ideas and com-
ments to any member of the
committee, either orally or in
writing.”

It is proposed that
Washington and Lee institute a
program of University Scholars
in order to serve better the
ablest students in each aca-
demic class. Such a program
would bring these students
together for intellectual
stimulation, both in credit-
bearing courses and extra-
mural activities, and it would
allow them in their first two
years to undertake tutorials
and, if instructors agree,
courses ordinarily not open to
beginning students. A highly
visible, university-wide  pro-
gram would also draw attention
to the work of these students,
setting it forth as an example to
other students. It should help
Washington and Lee to retain
excellent students who might
otherwise transfer to another
school, and it might assist in
recruiting intellectually am-
bitious students, as well.

Out of each academic class,
10 or 15 students — enough for
one seminar — would be
selected to participate in the
program. Roughly half this
number would be chosen on the
basis of information submitted
in support of their applications
for admission to Washington
and Lee. Personal interviews
with candidates for the pro-
gram during scholarship week-
ends would help to identify the
best qualified among them, and
those appointed would be

notified before the deadline for
accepting admission to the
school. The other participants
would be named after the fail
term of their freshman year,
permitting first-term grades,
faculty recommendations, and
personal interviews to be used
in evaluating applicants.

Those chosen as University
Scholars would begin par-
ticipating in the program’s for-
mal activities during the winter
term of their freshman year.
They would be expected to read
then a small but challenging list
of works, which would be dis-
cussed during informal
meetings (perhaps 6) with the
program’s advisers and other
faculty members. (Sometimes
the meetings, like sessions of
the Alumni College, could be
prefaced by lectures.) During
the spring term, one three-
credit seminar would be
presented on a topic enough in
line with these common
readings so that participants
could draw upon them.

University Scholars would
continue in the program for
their sophomore and junior
years, taking each year one of

the two three-credit seminars
offered within the program dur-
ing the long terms. For those
who chose, the senior year of
the program would be spent in
honors programs in their ma-
jors, culminating in major pro-
jects or theses. Each remaining
student would design and carry
out a project or thesis roughly
equivalent in substance to those
required to earn honors in a ma-
jor.

Each of the three seminars of-
fered yearly by the program
would be organized and presid-
ed over by one professor, who
would use “primary’”’ texts
(Machiavelli's ‘‘The Prince,”’
as opposed to a textbook on
Renaissance politics) from
beyond the confines of his or her
own discipline, as well as from
within it; the professor would
also determine the most effec-
tive method of instruction
(team teaching, ‘‘guest ap-
pearances,’’ solo flight).
Seminars could be constructed
around topics, like theories of
social justice, or historical
periods, like medieval Europe.
Each year one seminar would

Ends at State Thurs. — 7-9

“‘Man From Snowy River’
Pei ere eins Sel 2A

 

Sat.-Sun.

Mat. 2 &
Mon. Night

(PG)
TEES RS :
STATE THEATRE

eT th _a63.3824

Starts Fri. Eve.’s 7-9:15

(R)

 

 

 

All Seats $1.50

 

Midnight Special —

His Last Chance

Fri., Sat. 12:00

“Let’s Spend the Night Together’’

 

Sat.-Sun.
Mat. 2 & *
Mon. Night
All Seats $1.50

Aa Sta “2 et
: agen ire
YX, LEXINGTON. VA 463-3543

HELDOVER Eve.’s7-9

The Rolling Stones eS

WoT

 

 

Tee eens © ANS TOMARE BUIVOR.

HOFTMAN Footsie ee]

 

 

be led by humanist, one by a
social scientist, and one by a
natural scientist. From time to
time the University Scholars
Committee would invite all
faculty members to propose
seminar topics, would select
some for the _ following
academic year after consulting
students in the program, and
would award small summer
stipends to assist professors in
developing those seminars.
During the freshman and
sophomore years participants
in the program would also have

the Oxbridge mode. These
tutorials would allow the stu-
dent to read more extensively
than he would in a regular ver-
sion of the course, to work out
his own ideas in weekly essays,
and to sharpen and extend his
thinking in weekly conversa-
tions springing from the essays
he would present to his instruc-
tor. Tutorials would be chosen
from a list of courses which lend
themselves to this method of
study; the list could be compil-
ed by the director of the pro-
gram, acting on the advice of

 

the opportunity totakeuptotwo departmental faculties.
courses a year as tutorials in :
(continued on page 4)
Food Service Department

Alka Seltzer

 

in

 

4 points

Evans Dining Hall
Fancy Dress 1983

HANGOVER

BRUNCH

11:30-1:00
Orange Juice
Tomato Juice

March 4-5-6

Chef’s Homemade
* Vegetable Soup
Eggs Benedict

with Hollandaise Sause
Waffles with Syrup
Grilled Chopped Beefsteak
Whipped Potatoes
Whole Kernel Corn
Assorted Breads

$3.50

or

Sunday Brunch
11:30-12:45

Orange Juice

Fresh Fruit Bowl
Scrambled Eggs
Fried Eggs

Hot Cakes with Syrup
Waffles with Syrup
Breakfast Ham
Grilled Bacon

Bagels with Cream Cheese
Toast, Butter, Jelly
Fresh Donuts

$3.50 or4 points

\
ii a bey oe Lo-Fat Milks, Fruit Punch, Hot Coffee/Tea, Iced Tea
Soft Drinks, Granola, Apple Butter @ li

   

ip :
{ WT

Py

AVN \Ati 4

 

 
 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983

 

 

Contact

(continued from page 1)

very impressed with the pro-
gram and thought it would be
good publicity for the universi-
ty, and we agreed,” Drinkwater
said. ‘‘They asked about having
some national reporters.”’

Ehrlichman isn’t the first
Watergate luminary to visit the
campus. Previous Contact
speakers have included G. Gor-
don Liddy and Sam Ervin.

At its Jan. 17 meeting, the Ex-
ecutive Committee commended
Contact ‘profusely’ for its
work in arranging the debate.

John Ehrlichman served Nix-
on first as Counsel to the Presi-
dent and later as Assistant to
the President for Domestic Af-
fairs. In April 1973, with the
Watergate scandal developing
all around him, he resigned,
saying that it had ‘‘become in-
creasingly evident _ that,
regardless of the actual facts, I
have been a target of public at-
oe.”

In March 1974, he was in-
dicted for conspiracy and
obstruction of justice in connec-
tion with the Watergate break-
in and cover-up. He was also
charged with lying to both the
grand jury and the FBI. In addi-
tion, he was indicted on similar
charges — conspiracy and per-
jury to a grand jury and the FBI
— in the so-called ‘“‘Plumbers”’
case.

}
'

     

 

APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR

Above Lois’ Restaurant,
Across from Leggett on Main St.

; $175/month 12 mo. lease

He was found guilty of three
counts of perjury and one count
of conspiracy, and was sentenc-
ed to serve at least 20 months in
jail. At the Watergate trial after
the resignation of President
Nixon, Ehrlichman was con-
victed of obstruction of justice,
conspiracy, and making false
declarations to a grand jury. He
was also removed from the bar.

Eugene McCarthy’s Senate
career was distinguished by his
vocal and vigorous support of
liberal issues. During the Ken-
nedy administration, he cham-
pioned medical care for the
aged and other social reforms
presented by the administra-
tion.

During the Johnson years,
McCarthy was what one
reference source calls “the
Senate’s foremost opponent to
the Johnson Administration’s
Vietnam war policy.’’ He said
the war was ‘‘morally indefen-
sible” and called the Presi-
dent’s actions ‘‘dangerous.”’

After an unsuccessful 1968
Presidential campaign, McCar-
thy continued his opposition to
the war, decrying Nixon’s
“Vietnamization’”’ policy. He
resigned from the Senate in 1971
and made unsuccessful bids for
the Presidency in 1972 and 1976.

  

 

 

  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   

Wenske : Use the market

Stock market analyst Paul
Wenske told a Washington and
Lee University audience Thurs-
day (Feb. 25) that “if you can
afford to have some of your
money on Wall Street, you pro-
bably can’t afford-not to.”

Speaking as part of W&L’s
Contact ’83, a speaker sym-
posium sponsored jointly by the
interfraternity council and the
student body, Wenske provided
advice for prospective investors
based on his personal ex-
periences and gave his predic-
tions for the future of the
market.

Wenske characterized the
stock market as ‘‘an instant
photograph of a significant
chunk of America.”’

In the long run, he said, “‘the
market will respond to forces
more powerful than itself, such

as a truly expanding economy.
But in the short run, it is dif-
ficult to predict
because its behavior is so uns-
cientific and illogical.”’

He warned potential investors
that ‘‘you will lose money’’ but
added: ‘‘Don’t let that bother
you. You don’t always have to
be a winner. You’re just trying
to win more often than you lose.
That’s not as hard as it sounds.”’

Before entering the market,
Wenske suggested that rather
than analyzing stocks ‘‘the in-
itial analysis you do...should be
of yourself. Are you capable of
resisting the jostle of the
crowd? Can you train yourself
to develop an intelligent in-
vesting program, then stick to it
when all the people at the
cocktail party tell you you’re

University Scholars

(continued from page 3)

Instructors would also be en-
couraged to relax prerequisites
for University Scholars, if they
judged that they could manage
the work without taking the
prerequisite course or courses.

Thus, a program of Universi-
ty Scholars would offer intellec-
tually ambitious and able
students opportunities to under-
take independent and advanced
work early in college. These
would be the chief inducements
for applying to the program,
just as they would be the chief
reasons for creating it in the
first place. A few other special
benefits might also attract ex-
cellent students. Those in pro-
gram would be recognized by
the designation ‘University

Schlars’’; that title would ap-

pear on their transcripts, and a
description of the program
would accompany any copy of
the transcript sent out. They
would be recognized publicly
during the Phi Beta Kappa
assembly. They would be in-
vited periodically to lunch with
distinguished guests and to at-
tend a yearly retreat at
Skylark.

Courses within the program
and tutorials would be graded
according to the standard letter
system of Washington and Lee,
coupled with written evalua-
tions by seminar directors and
tutors. Each University Scholar
would be expected to fulfill the
same distribution and major re-

quirements as any other Wash-

ington and Lee _ student,
although the seminars might be

precisely

    

crazy? You need objectivity, a
desire to learn, and the ability
to learn from your mistakes.”’

He advised first-time in-
vestors to “‘walk before you run,
buy with cash, do not buy on
margin, and buy only what you
can afford.”

Asked his impressions of the
market’s future, Wenske quoted
two newsletters which sug-
gested the market is headed for
a spill ‘‘perhaps as much as 100
to 150 points.”

But he tempered that state-
ment by observing that ‘‘it
seems the market has so much
‘head steam’ right now and just
keeps barrelling ahead....”’

Added Wenske: “In Wall
Street, the sensational may
tend to make better headlines,
but the undramatic makes
more money.”

used to meet some aspects of
the former.

This 12 or 15 credit program
(three seminars plus a three to
six credit thesis) would require
a program director who would
be compensated by released
time from some academic
duties, academic advisers for
the students who would be
relieved of other advises, and
teaching faculty (enough to of-
fer three seminars a year) who
would be given released time
from other teaching duties.
(These three categories are not
anticipated to be mutually ex-

clusive.) The director would be

appointed by the university’s
President, as would an advisory
committee of faculty members
(on three-year terms) and
students.

 

i CALL: Edward E. Smith

463-4583 affer4p.m. &

Os Main
Sandinich Shoppe

Come eat with us during Fancy Dress
Wake up late with a hangover; some cheese, a
sandwich, and a coke will cure the problem.

463-2595

 

 

 

 

The Official Fancy Dress Photographer
Located on the balcony behind the Royal Canadians

You will receive:
2 Two 5 x 7 PORTRAITS IN FOLDERS

Chinese, Polynesian, and
American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails
| Make Reservations Early

for Fancy Dress

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

   

plus:
FOUR WALLET SIZE PORTRAITS

EVERYTHING IN COLOR!

    

 

ALOHA WOK

yee 6 6—~“Carry-out Available”’
409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia

Open Tuesday through Sunday

 
       

Luncheon 11:30-2:30 ALL FOR ONLY $7.50
entigin ME thee Sabai including tax

    

  

Sun. Buffet 12-2:30-—-$4.25

Pa

hme OME a NE OTN OE MPN NIE TENNEY PLE FETR TRT RAY ONIN PUR AF TREE ATE PITRE LAR PETAR YT ET OURO ST IN QP pL ery
The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983, Page 5

 

 

IFC sets committees, budget

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor

The Interfraternity Council
created two subcommittees, set
the date for office nominations
and extended a billing date in
its Tuesday night meeting.

Nominations for the positions
of IFC president and vice prési-
dent are due Tuesday, March 8.
The election for these two posi-
tions will include both fraterni-
ty members and independent
voters.

The IFC established a sub-
committee to rewrite the coun-
cil’s constitution which, accor-
ding to IFC treasurer Emery
Ellinger, is a much needed task.

“It’s been a long time since it

has been rewritten,”’ noted Ell-
inger who added that the move
was instigated by Assistant
Dean of Students Dan Murphy.
Ellinger said he expected the
revision to be finished before
the year’s end.

A second subcommittee was
created Tuesday night to ex-
amine the fall rush schedule.
This action follows a request by
the Student Affairs Committee
last spring to re-examine the
fall rush which was adopted for
1982. The SAC met continually
last spring to study several op-
tions for Rush and asked that
Rush be periodically reviewed.

The study will consider the
problems of the past year and
how to avoid them for the com-
ing Rush, Ellinger said.

Ellinger also said that bills
due to the IFC from fraternities
were extended one week to the

following Tuesday due to the |

confusion of Fancy Dress week.
He warned that bills not paid on
time will result in social proba-
tion.

In other action, the IFC has
finalized its projected 1983-84
budget. The total budget is
divided into two billed parts
which include a one item bill for
$7,500, which the IFC donates to
the Contact Fund, and a four
item sum of $11,913 which is
made up of various expenses.

The Contact funding is charg-
ed through each fraternity ac-
cording to its number of
members, Ellinger said, and
each house will be charged $8.98

Summers at Oxford

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

Going to school in the sum-
mer is not on everybody’s list of
priorities, but attending St.
Anne’s College in Oxford,
England, for the summer holds
much greater allure. Wash-
ington and Lee, along with five
other schools in the area, offers
a five-week, six credit study
program at the Oxford college
taught by British ‘‘dons”’ in the
British teaching method, unlike
other study curriculums taught
by American professors.

“The St. Anne’s program is
taught in the British method. In
the literature course, the
tutorial method is used. The stu-
dent presents his paper to an
Oxford tutor and two other
students, and they critique it. In
the history course, lecture and
discussion constitute the
classwork. The student de-
velo, careful arguments. Ex-
ams 2 non-existent,’’ noted
English Professor Edwin
Craun, adding that the program
is the only W&L sanctioned pro-
gram in the summer.

While few W&L students par-
ticipate in the program (only
four W&L students went last
summer), Craun_ believes
greater publicity would attract
more interest. One benefit of
the program few realize, he jok-
ed, is that 20 out of the 30
students who participate are
girls.

“Originally, the St. Anne’s
program was run by Mary
Baldwin and Davidson (N.C.)
Colleges, but Davidson broke
off and formed its own pro-
gram. Now, Sweet Briar, VMI,
Hampden-Sydney, Mary Bald-
win, and W&L run the pro-
gram,” he said.

Richard Jones ’83C_par-
ticipated last summer and
would go back again if he had
the opportunity.

“I wish I could do justice to
my experience over there. Ox-

ford is a great community. The
lectures are very interesting.
The foreign students you meet
are nice. It’s really enjoyable,
not like going to school,”’ Jones
said.

Jones spoke highly of the lec-
turers especially. One lecturer
he heard this past summer is
the author of one of his text-
books this year. The experience
of being in another country add-
ed to Jones’ impression also.

“It took me a while to get us-
ed to the tutorial system. The
tutors are geared to the Ameri-
can students, and meeting with

other students to discuss your -

paper helps you improve a lot.
At first, we held our tutorials in
the tutor’s office, and then we
held many in a_ pub,” he
remarked. ‘‘Believe me, Oxford
has many pubs!”

On the weekends, Jones and
other students took advantage
of low rental rates for cars and
toured the British countryside

and London. He found the

 

British museums impressive
and enjoyed exploring London.

“T found the English people
very accommodating,” Jones
said.

According to Assistant Dean
Pamela Simpson, faculty ad-
viser to the program, credit for
the two courses cannot be used
toward major requirements,
but it does count toward
distribution credit.

“That doesn’t mean we don’t
want English and History
students — we do. But we also
want other students,’’ Simpson
noted.

“I encourage my English ar-
chitecture classes to go. They
have had adequate insight into
British culture and _ history
through it.”

Cost for the trip this year is
$1,700, excluding airfare. While
applications were due March 1,
Simpson said she would accept
applications up until March 11.

 

per member.

The four item remainder of
the budget is also charged to
each fraternity per member.
The projected charge for the
$11,913 non-Contact sum is ap-
proximately $4.98 per member.

The largest item aside from
the Contact donation is a $5,300
fund to pay the room and board
of two exchange students which
takes up 44 percent of the non-
Contact budget.

Ellinger said he feels that
because not many people know
about this fund, the IFC is often
attacked for being totally
fraternity oriented.

Twenty-eight percent of the
budget ($3,413) has been allot-
ted for the Rush guidebook.
Twenty percent ($2,500) is pro-
jected for the cost of the spring
IFC party weekend, and five
percent is set aside for
miscellaneous expenses.

Aside from fraternity taxes
which account for 41 percent of
the IFC’s income, costs are paid
with freshman Rush registra-
tion (41 percent), Rush book
advertisements (11 percent),
and fines on fraternities (5 per-
cent).

Ellinger noted that these pro-
jected figures were estimates
taken from the 1982-83 IFC

| budget.

 

Youth science
In academe

You have heard, no doubt, of
Little League Baseball and
youth soccer and the Pop
Warner Football League.

But have you ever heard of
Little League Chemistry? How
about youth psychology? The

Albert Einstein’ Physics
League? You haven’t?
Although it goes by a

somewhat more sophisticated
name — _ the _ Lexington
Academy of Science — a new
program designed by two
science professors at neighbor-
ing Virginia Military Institute
and Washington and Lee
University is attempting to do
for budding scientists what
well-known youth athletic pro-
grams have been coing for bud-
ding athletes for years.

Formed last fall through the
joint efforts of Dr. Frank A. Set-
tle, professor of chemistry at
VMI, and Dr. H. Thomas
Williams, professor of physics
at W&L, the Lexington
Academy of Science has joined
forces with teachers at Lex-
ington High School to provide
high school students with oppor-
tunities for advanced studies in
the sciences and mathematics.

“There is so much volunteer
work in a city such as Lex-
ington, but a great deal of it —
for the young people, at least —

(continued on page 6)

APARTMENTS FOR RENT

College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

C—_ |||!!*CUEMOWRGENER
TRE FLOWER CENTER

223 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
DAY (703) 463-4521
EVENINGS (703) 463-6395

Onchids, Foses Gardenias, and Carnations Available

Open 8.7 Monday thru Saturday

Place Youn Ondens Canty +»

10 % Discount on Cueny Fifth Onder.

 

 

 

SBBBVBSBBBSRBBSRBBSBRE

g

Yon ¢

pee the © on the Bit 2a Bes

Gt On The Beat Withee One.

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983

 

SAE Bomb scare | LHS students

By RLCK SWAGLER
Phi News Editor

About 15 members of the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE)
fraternity interrupted their
television viewing Sunday night
to take a chilly half-hour stroll
on Washington Street. Their
walk was not prompted by a
desire for fresh air, but by a
false bomb threat.

Gray Sanders, a resident of
the house, answered the phone
at about 10:30 that night.

‘“Who’s this?’’ a voice
demanded.

‘Who's this?’’ Sanders
replied.

“There’s a bomb in your
basement, mother---,”’ the voice
said.

Sophomore Tom Pearce was
in the house when the call came

in. ‘‘We all kind of laughed it
off,” he said.

Acting Police Chief Bruce
Beard of the Lexington Police
Department said that his
department received a call
from Sanders reporting the
threat at 10:34 p.m. Officers
Zollman, Spain and Pedersen
responded.

While the members of the
house stood out in the cold,
house president Bert Ponder
and house manager Ed Griffin
searched the basement with
Zollman, failing to find the pur-
ported bomb.

When asked about the
possibility of future bomb
threats, Beard said, ‘‘I hope this
is it. We don’t need them.’’ The
department is continuing its in-
vestigation.

 

HODGE

FANCY
WEEKEND

 

 

116 N. Main

Across from Stop-In

 

  
   

a
impor

Cabernet
Reg. *4.29
only *3.57

San Martin

Fumé Blanc
Reg. *7.25
only *4.95

  
 
 

10% off all
cheeses with

this ad!

 

PODGE

DRESS
SPECIALS

 

463-3683

 

 

 

 

Bn sae

 

8:30-5:00

2h AP A A - - — - NE ) SR- | D () EED (>

(continued from page 5)
has traditionally been aimed at
athletics,” said Williams. ‘‘It
seems only appropriate that we
do the same sort of thing in
other areas. Personally, I had
spent a lot of time with various
athletic leagues. And I began to
worry that I had been neglec-
ting the possibility of similar
volunteer work in an area
where I have some expertise.”

Settle and Williams began the
program by enlisting the
volunteer assistance of a half
dozen of their colleagues and
then contacting Lexington High
School officials to offer their
services.

The result has been that 18
Lexington High School juniors
and seniors have been par-
ticipating in the program this
year, spending an hour or two
each week working on an
almost one-to-one basis with
one of the university professors
who volunteered.

For instance, Col. Richard B.
Minnix, professor of physics at
VMI, has two students working
on a project involving laser
photography; W&L psychology
professor Leonard Jarrard has
two students participating in his
continuing research into the
brain; and, Lt. Col. Henry D.
Schreiber, associate professor
of chemistry at VMI, had two
students studying the chemical
properties of glass.

The other professors working
as volunteers in the program
are Dean Foster and Richard
RiCharde,_ professors of
psychology at VMI; Lt. Col.
Kenneth A. Abernethy,
associate professor of
mathematics at VMI; and,
Robert Wilson Sr., retired
chairman of the mathematics
department at Ohio Wesleyan
and formerly a mathematics
professor at W&L.

‘“‘We have a unique situation
in Lexington with two colleges
possessing excellent science

ject,”

 

and mathematics depart-
ments,’’ said Settle. ‘‘Over the
years, we have been able to
develop close relationships with
the science and mathematics
teachers in the high school. We
have, I think, tried to help out
without attempting to domi-
nate, which could be a danger.
The relationship was already
there. This was a way to further

 Oncé Settle and Williams had
recruited their volunteers and
the high school had helped iden-
tify students who had interests
and potential in science and
mathematics, the program
began by offering the students
choices of the projects in which
they wanted to participate.
“After the students selected
the project, they began working
on their own with the professor
involved in that particular pro-
explained Williams.
“Mostly, it has involved be-
tween one and two hours each
week, although some of the pro-
jects may involve work at

home ”
As Settle observed, the

students will not be discovering
any new theories of relativity.

“In the time frame we have,
there are not going to be any
scientific breakthroughs,’’ Set-
tle said. ‘‘That is not the point,
however. What we can do in this
time frame is expose the
students to the more sophis-
ticated equipment the colleges
possess and also expose them to
a close working relationship
with scientists and mathemati-
cians to see how they think and
how they work.

“The student participants do
not receive grades. Nor do they
get any credits for the work.

“On one level, they are in-
volved simply because it is in-
teresting and fun for them,”
said Williams. ‘‘The very basic
goal is simply to get the kids in-
terested.”

Indications are the program
has achieved the goal.

SD (<)> (<-> (DD (>< ( ) <> () <> ( ) <> ()-<ED-() ED () <ED- ()-<GED ()-<ED()-<D-O-D-

tron

FLORIST & GREENERY

165 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
(703) 463-9152

VISA or Master Charge

> A) A) AA) A) AE) RE) AED) EL) EA) EE) EE) AE) ED |) ED) ALD > ELL

 

Flowers for Your Fancy Dress Needs

Ee

“It has been fantastic from
our point of view,” said Paul
Leonhard, a chemistry teachcr
at Lexington High School who
assisted the Lexington
Academy of Science in organiz-
ing the program. ‘‘Kids are con-
stantly coming to me and show-
ing me the results of the
research they’ve been doing
and are excited about what they
can do.

“The most valuable part of
the program, from what I have
seen, is the way it has taken
some of the intimidation out of
science for some of these
students who might have had
the interest but were a bit in-
timidated.”

Both Settle and Williams em-
phasize the positive role that
Lexington High School has
played throughout the develop-
ment of the program.

Settle and Williams are
hopeful that their young par-
ticipants will eventually turn
their projects into papers that
will be presented each year at
the Virginia Junior Academy of
Sciences (VJAS).

“Henry Schreiber has used
high school students in several
of his funded research projects
in the past and has had a great
deal of success in having those
students present papers to the
Junior Academy,”’ Settle noted.
“In several instances, the
Students have brought back
awards. Our ultimate goal is to
have such papers presented
routinely. We might have
papers generated this year. But
there is not doubt the potential
is there for substantial research
to be reported at such a
statewide meeting in the future.

“That,’”’ Williams adds, ‘“‘is
the students’ Super Bowl.”

In addition to the work being
done on various projects, the
academy’s participants — pro-
fessors and students — meet
formally at various times dur-
ing the year to hear reports on
research, to share experiences,
to eat pizzas, and to play some
volleyball.

“We're experimenting with
the program right now,” noted
Williams. ‘‘We’re looking
around on the national level and
finding what is happening at
various levels of science educa-
tion. There is no question such
Virginia landscape artists went
on display in Washington and
Lee University’s duPont Gal-
lery on Monday, February 28.
of Paris, speak and show slides.
A reception featuring a variety
students were good ball
players, then there would be no
problem finding them the right
equipment and the guidance. If
they’re talented in math and
science, it has been up to them
to reach out in order to max-
imize their potential. What we
are doing is providing them
with the opportunities to
develop their skills and _ in-
terests.’’
Landscape art

shown at

An exhibition of works by six
Virginia landscape artists went
on display in Washington and
Lee University’s duPont Gal-
lery on Monday, February 28.

The show will remain on view
through March 18. A reception
to honor the artists will be held
on Friday, March 11, from 5
p.m. to 7 p.m. in the gallery.
The public is invited to attend
the reception. . -

The artists whose works will
be included in the group land-
scape show in duPont Gallery
are:

— Anne Way Bernard of
Boones Mill, a Virginia Com-
monwealth University graduate
whose works have been shown
in several shows in Richmond
and are part of an Artmobile
Exhibition that is traveling
throughout Virginia;

— Steve Bernard also of
Boones Mill, who has exhibited
paintings both in New York and
throughout Virginia and whose
works were part of an exhibi-
tion entitled ‘‘Virginia
Traversed-Mountain Painters”
at Virginia Tech last year;

— Durwood Dommissee of
Richmond, who is associate
professor of art in the Art Foun-
dation Program at Virginia
Commonwealth University. A
Wisconsin native with a
master’s degree from the Cran-
brook Academy of Art, Dom-
misse has had a one-man ex-
hibition at Gallery K in

Ud

duPont

Washington, D.C., and has had
paintings included in several
permanent collections both in
Virginia and his native Wiscon-
sin;

— Maryann Harman of
Blacksburg, who is associate
professor of art at Virginia
Tech. A Roanoke native who
has a bachelor’s degree from
Mary Washington College and a
master’s from Virginia Tech,
she has had solo exhibitions at
galleries in New York City and
Washington, D.C. Her paintings
are included in a number of col-
lections;

— Victor Huggins of
Blacksburg, who is professor
and head of the department of
art at Virginia Tech. He is a
graduate of the University of

North Carolina and has ex- 3

hibited widely in one-man
shows throughout the South and
in both New York City and
Washington, D.C.

— Frederick D. Nichols Jr. of
Barboursville, who has degrees
from the University of Virginia
and Pratt Institute. Nichols has
had one-man exhibitions in
Virginia, Delaware, Arizona,
and Washington, D.C.; and has
been included in numerous
group exhibitions in those
areas. \

DuPont Gallery is open to the
public at no charge. Gallery
hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
weekdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Saturdays, and 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Sundays.

TL AAT TT

~ WHITE FRONT

 

_ SUPER MARKET

167 S Main St.

 

 

SE

 

2ee

HIN

Potato Chips

Miller Lite Beer *229
= 6 pack 12 0z
= Korbel Champagne *§”
= '
= Gallo Wine magnum $3
=Gord ns Go 2
= I ns Gourmet 99°

E
“
=

RE FEE REE IRIE EIR CRAIC op nO RUN 6 ae ee om ae

Have A Great Weekend

=>
=
=>
=

“Shop where Student Charge
Accounts are welcome”

Specials for the Fancy Dress Weekend are:

Chef Boy Ar Dee

Frozen Pizza 99 =
P&D Shrimp ‘4 =
OZ. pkg.
Breyers Yogurt - 2/79°3
8 oz. cup =
Kraft - =
Sharp Cheese’™ ‘I’ =
=

The Country Kitchen
An Old Fashioned

Eat in or take out

8 North Main

: Bakery
i

|

 

|
|
|
|
|

Phone: 703-463-5691

SORE SRR AP SE OIE ORRIN ORI UR EE co AR ee

The Booth Ferris Foundation
of New York has awarded
Washington and Lee University
a grant of $100,000 to assist in
creating a permanent endow-
ment for the university’s in-
novative program in applied
ethics, ‘“‘Society and the Profes-
sions.”’

.“Society and the Profes-
sions’’ was begun at
Washington and Lee in 1972 as
an experimental program and
was developed under a three-
year grant from the Lilly En-
dowment. The program _in-
cludes seminars in the ethics of
business, journalism, law, and
medicine and is designed to
make pre-professional under-
graduate students in those
areas more aware of the
humanistic dimensions of the
professions they plan to enter.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983, Page 7

Booth Ferris grants $100,000

In addition to the semester-
long seminars for under-
graduate students, ‘Society
and the Professions” annually
stages-four workshops in which
practicing professionals join
the W&L students and faculty
members for three days of lec-
tures and discussion sessions.

The Booth Ferris Foundation
began its operations in 1957 with
a trust established by Mrs.
Chancie Ferris Booth and
another trust from the estate of
Willis H. Booth. The combined
trusts created the Booth Ferris
Foundation in 1964.

The foundation makes grants
in the areas of religion, educa-
tion, health, welfare, public af-
fairs, and the arts.

“The trustees of the Booth
Ferris Foundation have long
been concerned with the pro-

blems of higher education, and
of late with the problems of the
small colleges of this country,”’
said Robert F. Longley, a senior
vice president of Morgan
Guaranty Trust Company and a
trustee of the Booth Ferris
Foundation.

“Cooperation between educa-
tion and foundations must grow
if we are to find the solutions to
many of the problems that beset
society today.”’

According to Farris P. Hotch-
kiss, W&L’s director of develop-
ment and university relations,
the Booth Ferris Foundation
gift is doubly significant since
in addition to being applied
toward endowing the ‘Society
and the Professions” program,
it qualifies toward a National
Endowment for the Humanities
Challenge Grant.

W&L International Day ‘83

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

Highlighted by lively dance,
international cuisine, and slides
of Paris, W&L International
Day ’83 was observed on Sun-
day. Sponsored by the Interna-
tional Club, the day’s activities
sought to commemorate the
diversity among cultures and
bring greater understanding of
those cultures to students.

“I thought it went very well.

While I wish more students had
participated, I think we had a
good number of people turn out
today,” said Henry Baey, presi-
dent of the club, after the even-
ing slide presentation.
Approximately 140 people at-
tended the afternoon feature of
the cultural celebration, a con-
cert of international folk dances
performed by the Folk Ensem-
ble of James Madison Universi-
ty. Dressed in‘ native con-

stumes, the dancers performed

SAFEWAY

‘422 E. Nelson St.

traditional Polish, Armenian,
Mexican, German, and Israeli
steps to music. The evening din-
ing hall meal featured French
and Oriental food, as well as
music by the Brass Ensemble.
A standing-room-only crowd
packed Northen Auditorium to
hear Mrs. A.J. Fralen, a native
of Paris speak and show slides.
A reception featuring a variety
of foreign specialities followed
the presentation.

Celebrating Fancy Dress

CHAMPAGNE

89
‘28.5 oz. 89
or by the case $31?)

| ALMADEN |

MOUNTAIN
WINES

50.7 0z. Btls. $39

TWH aaD
ANDRE FRESH MADE

SAFEWAY
CHEESE PIZZAS

yi 12-in. $600

ba e1

DELI PARTY
TRAYS

Set to your Needs
(See our Deli for details)

| BUDWEISER

BEER
12-0z.—6-Pack Btls.

$929

KEG BEER

We stock a full
Wit aC pe Tuk
ECORV m ewe BCom

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983

Sa eRe ee ean a tet WR I eS EO CTR NR RN eA ESD RS RE RIE SO ETA ERT SAAS AEN ERAN SAICTES,
Saat PR Re am ne et OE ee NS tA SE EEA: SRN AAS AIR AA SE A NY PES TRE RNS DELON IS MOOT OS EE LM UN IO
Vlahoplus wins Pinney Prize ;
Prysi awarded English grant

John Vlahoplus, a Wash-
ington and Lee University
senior from Columbia, S.C., is
the 1983 winner of the annual
Edward L. Pinney Prize at the
university.

The prize was awarded to
Vlahoplus by a vote of the

University Council, an
organization composed of
students, faculty, and ad-

ministration at Washington and
Lee.

Awarded for the first time in
1982, the Pinney Prize was
established by the Washington
and Lee faculty in memory of
the late Edward Lee Pinney,
professor of politics at W&L
who died in 1980. The Pinney
Prize recognizes extraordinary
commitment both to personal
scholarship and to the nurturing
of intellectual life at
Washington and Lee.

Vlahoplus is an economics

major and has been elected to
Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and Who’s Who. He is a
senior class representative to
the Executive Committee,
W&L’s student government
body.
A graduate of Heathwood
Hall Episcopal School in Colum-
bia, he is the son of Mr. and
Mrs. Christopher Vlahoplus Sr.
of Columbia.

Scott Prysi, a Washington and
Lee University junior from
Alexandria, Va., is one of three
students from Virginia colleges
to be awarded a grant from the
English-Speaking Union for
summer study in Great Britain.

 

the

 

os SSRI

 

efferso
fferson

lexington, va.24450

garden

Fancy Flowers
for
Fancy Dress!

Hours: 10-5

Monday thru Saturday

103 N. Jefferson,
at the corner of Main & Jefferson
Across from Stop-In

463-9841

lorist

103 n. jefferson

703°463°9841

OD

 

 

 

The award, administered by
the Richmond branch of the
English-Speaking Union, pro-
vides an opportunity for
students from Virginia to take
courses in an English or Scot-
tish University and to travel in
Great Britain in order that they
may have a more intimate
knowledge and understanding
of the British people.

The program serves to carry
out the purpose of the English-
Speaking Union — the promo-
tion of understanding, goodwill,
and peaceful cooperation
among all the people of the
world who speak the English
language.

Prysi will use the grant to
study Shakespearean drama
and Elizabethan history at
Stratford on Avon for six weeks
this summer.

The grant is awarded on the
basis of literary and scholastic
ability and evidence of potential
leadership along with other
qualities as determined in ap-
plication ‘procedures and
through a series of interviews.

Prysi is majoring in
chemistry and art history at
Washington and Lee. He is a
member of Alpha _ Epsilon
Delta, the national professional
society in premedical studies,
and was elected to Phi Eta
Sigma, the freshman honor
society. He is a member of
Lambda Chi Alpha social
fraternity.

A graduate of Episcopal High

School, he is the son of Mr. and *

Mrs. Henry F. Prysi of Alexan-
dria.

qvite

eZ

 

WEL wins moot court

A team of Washington and
Lee University law students
won the annual William and
Mary Moot Court Competition
last weekend in Williamsburg,
Va.

The two-day competition in-
cluded both oral arguments and
written briefs.

The Washington and Lee
team was composed of Steve
Schweller, a second-year stu-
dent from Dayton, Ohio; C.J.

83-84 Dorm

Counselors

The following students have
been selected to serve as Dor-
mitory Counselors for the
1983-84 academic year: Head
Counselor, Timothy G. Schurr.

Assistant Head Counselors:
James C. Clark, Mark A. Lukes,
Andrew J. MacLellan, Tori C.
Richardson and Ronald J.
Travers.

Freshman Dormitory
Counselors: Andrew W.
Asimos, Martin J. Bechtold,
Christopher J. Cartmill, An-
drew S. Cooney, Paul N. Far-
quharson, William G. Foster,
David C. Judge, Kevin H.
Kelley, Michael F. Killea, John
L. McCants, Joseph E. Mamo,
Ken L. Moles, Kenneth G. Niles,
William J. O’Brien; Thomas R.
Schurr, Roland J. Simon, David
A. Sizemore, Robert J. Tomaso,
Michael Walsh and Mark W.
Weaver.

Alternates are Jeffrey D. Dix-
on, Apostolos G. Grekos, Joseph
C. Morelos, Rod N. San-
tomassimo and Christopher H.

 

Williams.

 

 

 

 

a AK

 

Robbins, a third-year student
from Fredericksburg, Va.; and,
Sue Voorhees, a second-year
student from Titusville, N.J.

Carolyn Camardo, a _ third-
year student from Cincinnati,
served as coach for the team.

Other law schools competing
in the William and Mary event
were George Mason, the
University of Virginia,
American University, and
Wake Forest along with host
William and Mary.

Phi Beta Kappa

(continued from page 1)

Richmond, Va.; David S. Knit-
ter of Riverdale, Ga.; Todd W.
Meyer of Garnerville, N.Y.;
Philip W. Murray III of
Newport News, Va.; Raymond
L. Nichols Jr. of Memphis,
Tenn.; Michael H. Reap of
White Plains, N.Y.; Jackson R.
Sharman III of Tuscaloosa,

Ala.; John S. Solitario of
Granite Springs, N.Y.;
Christopher §S. Stokes of

Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; and,
Richard W. Young of Wash-
ington, D.C.

Juniors: David W. Ames of
Virginia Beach, Va.; John S.
Doyle of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.;
Jeffrey S. Gee of Johnson City,
Tenn.; David W. Killenbeck of
Spencerport, N.Y.; Jeffrey W.
Knapp of Berwyn, Pa.; John W.
Miller III of Lancaster, Pa.;
Jack L. O’Brien of Boca Raton,
Fla.; Timothy A. Valliere of Un-
casville, Conn.; David J. War-
renfeltz Jr. of Smithburg, Md.;
and, Robert C. Woods of
McLean, Va.

1982 Graduate: David John
Hepler of Chatham Township,
N.J.

Col,
AN “Up

i
%

Dine with us before Fancy Dress

6:00 - 9:00
463-9331

(No Reservations Necessary )

30 N. Main Street

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983, Page 9

 

Pressler named

VMI lax coach

By JOHN PERKINSON
Special to the Phi

“There’s another lacrosse
team in Lexington,’’ said Mike
Pressler, recently appointed
coach of the new Virginia
Military Institute lacrosse pro-
gram and former W&L lacrosse
andfootballstar.  —_

Pressler was referring to the
VMI lacrosse team’s recently
achieved status as Division I.
Mike Strickler, sports informa-
tion director at VMI said prior
to this year, the lacrosse pro-
gram had existed under club
status since about 1970.

According to Pressler, work
for the change in status occured
“when Gen. Walker, the new
superintendent, arrived.

“He is an All-American from
West Point and is the one behind
this lacrosse program. He gave
it varsity status and pushed to
become a Division I team,”
Strickler said.

   

MIKE PRESSLER

Pressler, who graduated
from Washington and Lee last
year, said his appointment as
head coach came as a surprise.
“TI was hired two weeks before
the first practice,’ he noted.
“That didn’t give me much time
to get ready.”

However, Sean McNulty, the
assistant VMI lacrosse coach
and current W&L junior, work-
ed with the team this fall. He
organized practices and cut the
team down to 32 players.

Players on the VMI lacrosse
team practiced for a month on
their own before Pressler arriv-
ed in early February. The new
coach said the team will have
about three weeks of practice
with him before its opening

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO
23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5968

ee A ee eS Oa
) ciiisicumieidle cama

game against Babson College
on March 17.

Pressler described this year’s
1l-game schedule as “pretty
competitive for the first year.”
The Keydets will play such
teams as Virginia Tech,
Guilford, Western Maryland,
Randolph Macon, New York
Pottsdam and Bucknell.

When asked if his strategy
resembles W&L lacrosse coach
Jack Emmer’s, Pressler
replied there are ‘‘a couple of
different wrinkles, but it’s
basically a W&L clone.”

The Keydets will use one of-
fense. “It’s the same offense
that W&L runs, a one-three-
two,’’ said Pressler. He added
that the W&L lacrosse squad
uses more variations which the
Keydets are not ready for
because of their inexperience as
ateam.

“Some of these guys haven’t
played a year, so we can’t over-
whelm them with all kinds of
strategies. They’ve got to work
on the basics — catching,
throwing and scooping ground
balls,” said Pressler.

When asked about his expec-
tations for this season, the new
coach replied, “I told the team
the first day, ‘Let’s just be com-
petitive. We shouldn’t set any
goals as far as wins and losses
go. We have a competitive
schedule; let’s take one game at
a time and play it that way.’ ”’

Pressler said his transition
from player to coach has been a
smooth one, even though he had
anticipated some problems. ‘‘At
first, I was really worried. I’m
the same age as a lot of these
guys. But they have a good
group over there. They have a
really good attitude and are
very receptive tocoaching.” _

Before his position at VMI,
Pressler was a graduate assis-
tant football coach at Hampden
Sydney. He left after the season
and returned to his home state
of Connecticut. There, he did
odd jobs and worked as a
Nautilus instructor until he was
contacted by VMI.

At Washington and Lee,
Pressler was a history major.
He was captain of the lacrosse
team and earned four letters.
Pressler also was captain of the
football team and made the
Kodak All-American and All-
ODAC (Old Dominion Athletic
Conference) teams.

 

I lt.

Warding off a check by a Duke defender, senior captain Geoff Wood drives for the crease in action
yesterday at Wilson Field. Wood and sophomore Jeff Mason tallied a total of seven goals on the day as

the Generals triumphed 12-8 over the Blue Devils. (Phi photo by Dave Stevens)

Generals down
Blue Devils in
season opener

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

Geoff Wood and Jeff Mason
combined for seven goals to
lead Washington and Lee to a
12-8 victory over Duke yester-
day on Wilson Field in the
season opener for the Generals.
The Blue Devils, who beat
Boston College 9-5 in their
opener, dropped to 1-1.

Although W&L trailed only
once, 1-0, the Generals never
led by more than three goals un-
til Wood scored the first goals of
the fourth quarter to make it 9-5
with 12:33 remaining. Duke
drew as close as 9-7 on two goals
witin 16 seconds of each other,
but tallies by Rod San-
tomassimo at 8:13 and Mason at

6:16 restored the four-goal
margin and a 11-7 lead.

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30
until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and
Garlic Bread you can eat for

Only

Buu E. Nelson “1a

 

Lexington

Freshman goalie Lewis
Brewster, playing behind an
unsteady defense, kept Duke in
the game. Several of his 18
saves came off uncontested
shots from close range. The
Blue Devils’ attack was paced
by junior Hunt Brawley’s two
goals and four assists.

Freshman Chris John, a
defensive midfielder, and
veterans Steve Conboy and Tim
Schurr were major factors in
the Generals’ ability to keep the
ball away from Duke most of
the game. John intercepted
several attempted clearing
passes and Schurr and Conboy
helped W&L limit Duke to 18

 

 

 

shots on goal. Sophomore Rich
Schoenberg, who won eight of
his nine faceoffs, also con-
tributed to W&L’s ball control.
Santomassimo and John Doub
collected two goals each to com-
plete the Generals’ attack.

The Generals, who won’t
return to regular season action
until Saturday, March 12, at
Navy, are scheduled for an ex-
hibition with the Chesapeake’
Club at 2 p.m. this Sunday,
March 6, on Wilson Field.
Chesapeake is made up mainly
of graduates from collegiate
teams.

 

 

FOOD
STORES

113 North Main St.
Beer, snacks, gas, groceries, cigarettes, ice, and much more.
We also have Hot Nachos 89°
This weekend’s specials:

Budweiser 12-0z. NR $2.69
Budweiser Light 12-0z. NR $2.69
Canada Dry Mixers 28-0z. 89°

Map OVER ert ~

SIE MADE AAO ET OE TRS

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983

 

 

Cagers bow to Roanoke

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

After defeating Maryville in
the quarterfinals, Washington
and Lee’s basketball team end-
ed its season Saturday with a
tough loss to Roanoke in the
semifinals of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tourna-
ment.

W&L finished the season with
an overall record of 17-10 and an
ODAC mark of 9-7.

‘There were times when we
played well, and there were
times when we just didn’t play
together as a team,’ senior
Frank Eppes said about W&L’s
performance this year.

The Generals played very
well against Maryville College
in the Warner Center last
Thursday, beating the Scots
77-59.
of the game, the Generals led
all the way. W&L led by as
much as 20 points during the
first half, and held a comfor-
table 41-23 lead at the interrnis-
sion.

W&L continued to increase its
lead in the second half, holding
leads of 29 points on two occa-
sions. Only a late surge by the

Swimming

Seots narrowed the final deficit
to 18 points.

Eppes led the Generals with
21 points. Juniors John Lee
Graves and Billy Yates added
14 and 12 points respectively.

Saturday the nationally
second-ranked Roanoke College
Maroons defeated W&L 65-60
despite a strong effort by the
Generals.

“‘T think we felt like we played
well on the whole,”’ Eppes said.
“We played together as a team
and that’s what counts,” he
said.

The lead switched hands on
several occasions in the first
half. W&L grabbed its last lead
of the game at 31-30 with 2:49
left to play in the half on a
basket by Eppes. A three point
play by Roanoke’s All-Amer-
ican forward Gerald Holmes
with five seconds left in the half
gave the Maroons a 37-33 lead at
halftime.

W&L played much of the first
half without Yates because the
junior guard had picked up
three personal fouls early in the
game. Sophomores David
Wilkinson and Jackson Mac-
Farlane contributed-four and
two points respectively in the

half coming off the bench to
pick up some of the scoring
slack.

In the second half, Roanoke
gradually began to pull away
from the Generals. A basket by
Holmes gave the Maroons a
63-54 lead with a little more than
two minutes to play.

The Generals fought back
furiously though, and pulled to
within 63-58 with 1:10 left in the
game on a basket by Yates. A
basket off a steal by Eppes clos-
ed the gap to 63-60 with nine
seconds remaining. However,
Roanoke’s Donnie Morris hit
two foul shots with eight
seconds left to seal the victory
for the Maroons.

Yates led the Generals’ scor-
ing attack with 16 points despite
missing much of the first half.
Eppes tossed in 14 points, and
senior Brian Hanson added 12
points.

‘“‘We haven’t played anybody
who was better than them this
year,” said Eppes concerning
the second-ranked Maroons.
‘In the past some of the teams
that we saw in New Jersey were
a little better,’’ Eppes said.

(continued on page 11)

Five go to nationals

MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

Coach Page Remillard and
his W&L swimmers went to
Blacksburg last weekend for
the Virginia Senior Champion-
ships with one purpose: to go
faster, fast enough to qualify for
nationals. Faster they went, as
three Generals posted lifetime
bests and two made national
qualifying times, sophomore
Taber Smith and junior Gary
Meyer.

_ eo — — oo —_ — — Sa hag

University Florists

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyds)

Get your corsages for
Fancy Dress now.
Very Close To Campus!
463-6080

ee ee eS eS eS SS.

 

Smith was also added to the
W&L group of qualifiers as a
member of the 400-yard free-
style relay team. Smith will
replace freshman Tim Stanford
on the relay entry by virtue of
his better individual split
achieved last weekend. The
relay team also includes
freshman John Moody, sopho-
more Bobby Pearson and
Meyer.

Meyer added another event,
the 100-free, to his string of na-
tional qualifiers. Due to a tin-

      
       
     

i i

 

 

ing malfunction in the 100-free
event, (which Meyer won), the
junior had to qualify with his leg
of the 400-free relay. His time
beat the national standard by
.07 seconds.

Fourth year head coach
Remillard commented on the
individual performances, say-
ing, “They swam real good,
mental races, sticking to their
strategies. We got a lot of

positive feedback.”’
During the weekend, the
Generals achieved three

lifetime bests. Smith outdid his
previous best with a 22.46 clock-
ing in the 50-free. Stanford
achieved his personal best time
in the 200-fly with a 2:01.29.
Rounding out the trio was fresh-

(continued on page 11)

The Red Front Grocery

Kick off FANCY DRESS a little
early with

Sophomore forward Scott Shannon takes it to the hoop in action

 

a

last Thursday against Maryville in Warner Center. The Genrals
prevailed over the Scots 77-559, but lost a close game to Roanoke in
the semifinals of the ODAC tournament. (Phi photo by Eric Camp-

bell)

Cavs [Impaled
by Generals

By LEE NICHOLS
Phi Sports Editor

Avenging a poor showing at
the Virginia Cup meet in
Charlottesville the previous
weekend, the W&L fencing
team defeated a highly touted
UVa squad 16-11 this past Satur-
day at VMI.

Revenge for the _ past
weekend’s performance was
especially sweet. At the
Virginia Cup meet hosted by
UVa, the Generals finished fifth
in a_ five-team field. The
Cavaliers captured the title
with 30 bouts; VMI was second
with 28 bouts, William & Mary
third with 27 bouts, VPI fourth
with 18 bouts, and W&L fifth

     
     

with 17 bouts. The outcome was
particularly frustrating for the
team, as the Generals tied
Virginia 6-6 in individual com-
petition. Also, a line-up change
which placed a freshman saber
fencer in foil competition
prevented eight sure forfeits
but did not improve the
Generals’ standing. However,
there were bright spots for two
fencers. Pat Berg placed se-
cond in the state in saber com-
petition, and junior captain
Rick Swagler was named to the
All-State second team in epee.
Knowing full well that they
were capable of defeating the
best fencing team in the state,
the Generals proved equal to
the task by posting an im-
pressive upset victory in Cocke
Hall last Saturday. In saber
competition, Pat Berg was 3-0,
Chuck DePoy 2-1, and Mike
Berg 1-2. In foil competition,
Leigh Kaplan was 2-1, Allen Coe

(continued on page 11)

   
     
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

RE poses
SOUTHERNINN: ]}cary.........$7.95 es { VARNER
Vout inet ; Busch .. 2 N.R. en $7 99 CASE & POLE
Good Food And Old Mil. Kegs see $23 695 115 South Main Street
Service PLUS DEPOSIT ;
i h ) F ur extra
ony — ae " Sale Ends March 4th , oe ~ furniture.
cP CRE EE RRP EASE ES SPE PTE TERT ERATE ES EERE LEO IE SI OM HO

 

 
ig

Cg

Sports

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1983, Page 11

 

 

 

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

...1 hate to say I told you so
but the USFL reared its ugly
head a week ago with the $5.0
million hardship story of the
late semi-great and soon to be
boring Herschel Walker. We all
know that money talks but rare-
ly does it think before it speaks.
How true of this situation. In
one fell swoop the brilliant
minds at the USFL and New
Jersey Generals ruined the life
of one young man and perhaps
did irreperable damage to the
game of college football.
Herschel was famous before the
deal; he’s now infamous for the
mistake. What mistake, you
say, he’s richer than you or I
will ever be, why not take the
money and run? My answer is
simple: He doesn’t need it. He’ll
get it all and possibly more next
year, he’d have a degree, and
most importantly he’d have a
lot more self-respect. Those
who cry, ‘What if he’s hurt in
his senior year?’ can be
answered with, ‘‘What if he’s
hurt in his rookie year with the
USFL? At least in the former
he’d have an alternative when
he’s told he can’t play anymore.
College football didn’t need this.
College coaches can only hope
that Herschel hasn’t set off a
chain reaction. The American
sports public should have the
same wish.

...On to happier things. Had
the gods been smiling on W&L’s
basketball team last Saturday
Roanoke College would have

Time Out.....

been annihilated in their semi-
final contest with the Generals.
Canfield’s crusaders did not
play as spotlessly as they did in
their first game with the
Maroons. Rather, that day the
entire team epitomized the
word “‘desire.’’ However, the
ball bounced the wrong way
enough times to leave W&L
always a half step behind Roa-
noke. My hat is tipped to these
gentlemen, their coach and

staff for showing the people in
the Salem Civic Center what a
competitor really is...Seniors
Jay Fechtel, Brian Hanson, and
Frank Eppes leave behind them
qualities that define leadership.
Needless to say the trio will be
sorely missed.

..speaking of college hoops,
there appears to be a debate as
to what individual is the game’s
player of the year. The four can-
didates appear to be Dale Ellis,
and Ralph Sampson, Sam
Perkins, and Michael Jordan.
Does it realy need to be such an
issue. Let’s remember it’s a
team game and the only award
that matters is the one
somebody will take home from
Alberquerque at the end of Mar-
ch. Are you listening Terry
Holland?...By the way, whether
or not he wins it, Mr. Ellis is the
best...

..1. leave you with this
thought: W&L is the only col-
lege that can turn a $5 million
athletic complex into a party
ground. I hope that isn’t the
SAB’s opinion of the sports pro-
gram...

 

 

Hoops

 

(continued from page 10)

Brian Hanson closed out his

career at W&L by scoring 432
points for the Generals this year
and by leading the team with 16
points per game average. Han-
son is the 8th leading scorer in
W&L’s history with a total of
1,338 points. Hanson also was
named to the all-ODAC team for
the second straight year.

The other two seniors on the
team were Frank Eppes and
Jay Fechtel. Eppes, Fechtel
and Hanson were tri-captains
for W&L this year.

John Lee Graves was the
Generals’ second leading scorer
with an average of 15.2 points
per game. Yates averaged 14.4
points per game, and Eppes hit
for 11.6 points per game.

This year’s total of 17 wins
boosted W&L Coach Verne Can-
field’s career total to 310 wins.
Canfield was out of town and
could not be reached for com-
ment.

oo

 

F encing—

(continued from page 10)

1-2, and Mike Grow 1-2. Roun-
ding out the General’s scoring
were Rick Swagler 2-1, John
Vilahoplus 1-2, and Cotton
Puryear 2-1 in epee. Three of
W&L’s victories in epee were
by virtue of forfeit, but this in no
way detracted from the im-
pressiveness of their team win.

This was the first time since
1941 that W&L has beaten UVA
in fencing. Ironically, Tad
Humphries, the present VMI
fencing coach, was the captain

 

 

BUSCH
6-Pack .

$2.29

Swimming
(continued from page 10)

man David Lewis who swam his
best time in the 200-free, at

1:58.35.

In all, the Generals will send
five swimmers to the NCAA
championships scheduled for
March 17-19. Meyer, Smith,
Stanford, sophomore Bobby
Pearson, and freshman John
Moody will represent W&L, as
the Generals make their ninth
straight appearance at the na-
tional championships.

The swimmers will compete
in five events. Meyer will swim
the 50-free as well as the 100-
free, while Moody will swim in
the 100-fly.

Remillard noted that Meyer
has been having some good
times and added “how fast he
goes will depend on good luck.”’

Of Moody, Remillard said,
‘He has a lot of hidden talent. I
see no reason for his super per-
formances not to continue.”

The other two events of na-
tionals for W&L will be the 400-
and 800-freestyle relays. The
$00 team will include Meyer and
Moody along with Stanford and
Pearson.

Heading ° into nationals,
Remillard is optimistic.

“‘We’re in as good shape as
any team could be,” he said.
“No one is in any better mental
shape.”’

POOLSIDE: Meyer swam a
47.92 in last Sunday’s 100-free to
beat out a field of 88, which in-
cluded several former teamates
from his aquatic group in
Roanoke. Remillard is confi-
dent he’ll do well in Canton if he
keeps his strings tucked...The
400-free relay team bettered the

Wilmington time by .74 seconds, -

finishing in 3:13.03...The
Generals’ times are competi-
tive with the rest of the field and
All-America honors (a finish in
the top 12 places of an event)
area possibility.

 

 

AST LEX.

SLSSASSSISSAS SSSA SASS A SASASSSDSS ADS ASS AS AAS SS A

of that victorious 1941 W&L
squad. In celebration ot such an
auspicious occasion, Swagler
treated the entire team to din-
ner at Estelle’s Grill.

 
  

BUD
12-Pack

$4.95

SMALANLAMMLLAL ALAA Led

Le

Track

 

Generals fifth at indoor

By CHRIS FULTON
Phi Staff Writer

“T don’t think we could have
beaten Lynchburg, but we
should have come in second,”
said track and field coach Nor-
ris Aldridge. The Washington
and Lee track and field team
finished fifth among six teams
last Saturday at the seventh an-
nual Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Indoor Champion-
ships at Lynchburg College.

The Generals accumulated 54
points, putting them ahead of
Emory and Henry (42) and
behind Lynchburg (111),
Roanoke (77), Catholic (76) and
Bridgewater (66).

The best individual finish for
the Generals was junior Charlie
Alcorn’s second place in the
shot put — a 42-foot 9-inch toss,
5 inches behind the Lynchburg
competitor.

Third-place honors went to
junior Angus McBride in the
two-mile run, and freshman
Townes Pressler in the high
jump, and the two-mile and 440-
yard relay teams.

The championships wrapped
up indoor competition for W&L.
Outdoor competition begins
Saturday, March 12, at home
against Davidson.

‘“‘We’ll be ready when outdoor
rolls around,” offered Aldridge.

 

 

 

 

 

 

uccdaus

 

IN

The Cockpit
W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

I Presents:

THE
DEAL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March 8

 

 

"It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

PALMS Opera house

 

Ya Loved them at Super Dance — See them after Fancy Dress

B4ck to passe

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  

    
      

Sal, --------------------------- CLOSED FOR :
NAVY BLAZER. 55% poly/45% woolB

P RI VA TE P AR TY hopsack. Handmade natural shoulder, ®

ati eer center vent. This classic 3-§

ete utton jacket by ORITZKY is a staple ele-
Wed. JIMMY 0 & ment in every gentleman’s wardrobe.
THE REDDY TEDS Monogrammed blazer buttons optional. &

Rock-a Billy — Admission $1.00 11! BUTTON DOWN OXFORD. 100% im-f

ported cotton, chaulk buttons, split-yoke, &

MEP cision onersh dosioccnde eters sea THE PROJECTS. |i sleeve placket buttons. White, blue, maize, .
Paes New Band from Charlottesville melon, helio. From Gitman Bros. &
60’s Rock, R&B Monogram optional. ;

wa I ae CHARISMA ||{PLEATED. SLACKS. 100% cotton
ss Lexington’s Own Funk andS val khaki twill featuring reverse pleats, belt :

loops, on-seam pockets, and 2 rear
pockets. By Sienna. With or without cuffs.
Suspender buttons optional.

   
 

   

  
       
   
     
     
     
   
   
   
   
  

TIES. Assorted silk foulards, repps,
clubs. Also madras, cotton knits, and
linen.

BEER aint: hee
SPECIAL |oehius

ICE COLD BUSCH $2.39 A SIX
=NATURAL LITE & MILLER LITE $2.49

FANCY DRESS
ue PINAL

BREAKFAST AT
THE PALMS
STARTS AT

——12 MIDNITE——

BELTS. Assorted surcingles, ribbon
motifs, and leathers including genuine
alligator.

SHOES. White bucks.

ACCESSORIES. Cotton argyle
sweaters and socks, silk pocket squares,
and suspenders.

LEXINGTON DRY GOODS COMPANY

Corner Nelson and Jefferson

ricemnan REL ORLIS

 

MNUUIILULLUUUIIUUUUIUUNHLUOLLL LUNN

 

 

MARC \RET
AND MARY
SAY......

Stop By For Your

 

Eggs Benedict With
Fancy Dress Cigars

Complimentary Beverage $5.49/per person

(HNN TL
 

Cake a Ride
on the Robert € 7

‘UnMROBLE

gy nt

LEE. 42

 
Page 2, Fancy Dress

Opinion

 

Letter

(Editor’s note: The following
is excerpted from a letter Lew
Prichard wrote two years ago
when he transferred to Tufts
University after his sophomore
year at Washington and Lee.
Lew is very critical of the social
life here and recently asked
that this letter be printed. The
reader should remember that
this is a piece of history written
by a lonely sophomore. He is on-
ly offering Some ideas.)

My reasons for transfer are
very simple. I think of myself as
a creative and independent per-
son who is stifled by the social
and intellectual limitations of
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty. I am sure that I have
cheated myself by coming to
this very traditional, conser-
vative, southern all-male col-
lege, and I am excited about the
possibility of going to Tufts
because I know Tufts has an ex-
cellent learning environment; I
am optimistic that I will at last
have the opportunity to excel as
I pursue by best interests
unrestricted.

I have two types of college-
oriented goals: social and in-
tellectual. There is no distinct
line which can be drawn be-
tween these two catagories
because my social and intellec-
tual goals mesh _ together,
dependent on each  other’s
fulfillment. My main reason for
going to college is to meet peo-
ple, make new friends, and
learn from these relationships.
I feel that it is essential for one
to develop his social and in-
tellectual interests simul-
taneously, that any lack in the
process will adversely affect
that person’s general attitude.

E. Nelson Sf.

FRANK'S PIZZA

Redeem This Coupon For A
15 % viscount

All This Week

My intellectual goal is to learn
as much as I can about the
world, to enlighten myself so
that I will be able to deal
reasonably with the changing
times which the near future
holds.

Washington and Lee is social-
ly and intellectually stagnant.
The social atmosphere is in-
fected with superficial values,
labels, and prejudice and the
curriculum caters to the
unimaginative, objective stu-
dent who comes here and con-
forms out of his own social in-
security. With superficial short-
sightedness the typical W&L
guy pursues his objective goals.
In the process he accepts labels
and is totally pre-judged and
categorized according to super-
ficial attributes (i.e., fraternity
membership, style of dress,
hair length, overall external ap-
pearance.) The typical W&L
student becomes unable to con-
sider a person in terms of
human assets, to communicate
beneath the facade which he
himself assumes and somehow
accepts as a means of judging
others. With a fraternity he
finds instant social life which he
would otherwise be unable to
have, owing to his incapacity to
associate with others who may
possess deeper means of char-
acter judgment. In obtuse
shallowness this person does
not realize that he has isolated
himself, cultivating superficial
values which not only prevent
his meeting new and interesting
people during his college years,
but throughout his entire life.
Another bad aspect of W&L’s
social atmosphere is that one
generally loses his youth as he

463-7575

Pizzas and Hot Sandwiches 4

 
   
   
 

seafood.

   
 
   

Beer and Wine Served
Now Taking Fancy Dress
Reservations

The Virginia House

A traditional Lexington Restaurant serving
homemade pies, country ham and fresh

Open 9-2
5-8:30
7 days

1

 
 
  
   
   
      

is conditioned to frequent ex-
treme party conditions (heavy
drinking, extremely loud
music, billowing clouds of
smoke). Meanwhile, the
absence of women as students
at W&L has obvious impact on
the entire situation. Not only
are women considered to be in-
tellectually subordinate, but in
this all-male environment they
become objects on male ter-
ritory, to be exploited. I am not
in a fraternity and have no part
of this confusion.

The intellectual atmosphere
is very lacking here because the
student body generally lacks
creativity. W&L’s music de-
partment is very poor, as is its
art department. But these defi-
ciencies are not noticed because
pre-business, pre-law and pre-
med majors have little interest
in the arts. Courses are design-
ed for the objective thinker; he
fills his distribution require-
ment and goes on. Drawing
courses are designed for future

W&L social life called stagnant

engineers and architects, which
is why I have avoided these
courses. What do I call this
situation where _ students
unknowingly limit themselves
in this socially and intellectual-
ly empty atmosphere? I call it
the essence of high class
mediocrity. Years later, the
“successful’’ W&L alumnus will
make his financial contribu-
tions, supporting this tradition
which he may still be unable to
understand.

Lew Prichard

International day scheduled

A performance of interna-
tional folk dances by a James
Madison University dance
troupe and a slide-lecture about
Paris will be the highlights of
International Day ’83 at
Washington and Lee University
on Sunday, February 27.

The International Day events
are sponsored by Washington
and Lee’s International Club.

At 3 p.m. the Folk Ensemble
of the James Madison Universi-
ty Dance Theatre will present a
program of folk dances in
Jackson Memorial Hall at
Virginia Military Institute. Ad-
mission to the folk dance pro-
gram is $1. Students will be ad-
mitted free.

The thirty-member Folk
Ensemble from JMU will pre-
sent folk dances from Poland,

Armenia, Mexico, Israel, Ger- .

many, England, and the United
States. All the dances are per-
formed in costume and have

been researched by members of ,

the Folk Ensemble.

 

oe ee ee ee ee ae

   

Oe i i fs

EAST LEX

BUD 12 PACKS
STILLONLY ....... $459

pagn ge pn a rd Ada A Aaedbad

The James Madison group
has presented performances
throughout Virginia since being
organized in 1969 and has par-
ticipated in a number of folk
dance festivals in Boston and
Washington, D.C.

At 7:30 p.m., Mrs.°A. G.
Fralin Jr. of Lexington will pre-
sent a slide-lecture entitled
“The Heart of Paris — Past and

February calendar
2% Eric Clapton

March
12 Confunction and Daz
14 Marshall Tucker Band

17 Kenny Rogers and Crystal Gayle

2 Billy Squier

24 Randy Newman

2% Tom Petty, Nick Lowe
29 Tom Petty, Nick Lowe

April

3 Alabama

I if A deeded

  

 

The Red Front Grocery

Kick off FANCY DRESS a little
early with

OEY s ivac ea $7.95 CASE
Busch . . 24N.R. Botties $7 099 case
Old Mil. Kegs.... $23.95

  
    
  
  
  

PLUS DEPOSIT

 

 

 
 
    
 

Sale Ends March 4th

  
 

Rock concerts

 

Present” in Northen Audi-
torium of the University
Library. Mrs. Fralin is a native
of Paris. Her presentation will
be free and open to the public. It
will be followed by a reception.

The International Day ac-
tivities at W&L will also include
a special international dinner
for W&L students in the Evans
Dining Hall.

Capitol Center

Roanoke Civic Center
Roanoke Civic Center
Roanoke Civic Center
Charlotte Coliseum, NC
The Bayou, Washington
Capitol Center

William and Mary

 

Salem Civic Center

Rebsincvwe vy

Ends Thurs. 7-9
“48 HOURS”
Nick Nolte
Eddie Murphy

Starts Fri.

Eves. 7-9

Sat.-Sun. Mat. 2 & Mon.
All Seats $1.50

Story of a boy alone.

 

Sle ; CINEMA
LEXINGTON, VA 463-3543 Bs
HELDOVER Eves.7-9:10 [ae

Sat.-Sun. Mat. 2 & Mon.
All Seats $1.50

 

 

 

| Bill Murray: ji
ae wn
 

 

A walk through the R

By LANIER EDGE
SAB Chairman

One of the country’s premier
college party weekends, Wash-
ngton and Lee’s annual Fancy
ress Weekend, will take place
Aarch 3,4, and 5.

This year’s ball will again be
eld in the more spacious
Varner Center, allowing for the
itroduction of bigger acts. The
10ve to Warner was under-
aken last year to enable alumni
nd invited guests of the W&L
ommunity to attend the ex-
ravaganza. Fancy Dress no
mger is held in the Student
enter where decorating was
ifficult. New techniques in
arms of lighting, staging, and
cowd control had to be adopted
1 the center. The theme this
ear, “Waiting for the Robert

. Lee, An Evening Along the
lississippi’’ centers around a
‘eamboat trip to areas noted
ot only for their geographical

gnificance, but also their

‘emendous night life. Special
reas of the boat itself also will
2 included in the decorations,
-oviding an unforgettable at-
iosphere in which to enjoy the
vening’s entertainment.

Drawn to Warner Center by

vo searchlights and an en-

ance accented in true steam-
yat fashion, one quickly finds
mself on the lower deck of the
iip. Several surprises are in-
uded in- this area while it

‘rves as your avenue to other

teresting areas. The Warner

2nter again will include a sw-

g band, Guy Lombardo’s

oyal Canadians. Decorations

the area will portray one of

e many scenes along the

Center. This area will be
transformed into the upper
deck of the ship and will be a
place for reflection and conver-
sation.

After arriving back on the
main level, the old gym will be
the next stop. An open air
boulevard will form the basis
for the decorations in this area
and the entertainment can be
conservatively described as
awesome. NRBQ and _ the
Voltage Brothers, two very
popular acts in this area, will
alternate sets beginning at 9
p.m. Additional exits are pro-
vided this year to ensure a more
comfortable setting. Anyone
wishing to really cut loose pro-
bably will not leave this area.

The description of the Ball
itself is still incomplete.
Numerous hallways, corners,

and other areas of the larger

rooms are not fully outlined yet.
We will leave these unknowns to
this year’s guests. Certain
small surprises have been in-
cluded, which -will make this a
memorable evening.

Freshman class

party Saturday

The traditional Freshman
class party will again be held at
the Pavilion on the Saturday of
Fancy Dress weekend. Even
with the new ABC regulations
this party promises to be fan-
tastic, featuring two well known
bands. ‘‘Mighty Three plus
Joy’’ will start the party at 1
p.m. and will play until 3 p.m.,
‘“‘The Deal’’ will then take over

Fancy Dress, Page 3

obert EL. Lee

p.m.

This year due to ABC regula-
tions the party can only be open
to W&L students and their in-
vited guests. There will be a
ticket to the party in your FD
ticket packet, this ticket must
be presented at the pavilion for
admission. Additional tickets
can be obtained from Townes

 

 

Athletic Attic

March 3rd, 4th and 5th

  

  

       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    

Pressler, Graham-Lees 223.

FANCY DRESS SPECIAL

 

10% off

Everything in Store

arner Center (500 level) will
ature a selected part of the
Each Wednesday night 5:30

te want coal Walle ies until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
ni and and Billy Wirtz. ae rarer

.e rhythm and Blues sound Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and es.
cation one of your stops is a | 4 L

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

ver. and rock the pavilion until 6
The classroom level of \
TUTE AMD dim lite!
eamboat. Entertainment will
» provided by the B. Willie
ming from this area will cap- Garlic Bread you can eat for
vate the audience. Making this ey Ls
The balcony level will provide Hut
PHONE 463-7000

 

 

 

spectacular view of the un-
iding events in Warner

 

 

 

Herring Travel Service

TAKE A RIDE

w E

OOP, | ays)

STORES

OPEN 24 HOURS
113 North Main St.

ONAREAL = piver BOAT

The Mississippi Queen departs from New Orleans on
March 11 for a luxurious 7-day cruise. Cabins start at $665.00.
Relive the pageantry and excitement of the great
steam boat era on the Mississippi and Ohio rivers.

Contact Hannelore Singleton 703-463-2197
19 S. Main St. Lexington, Va. 24450

Beer, snacks, gas, groceries, cigarettes, ice, and much more.
We do have Hot Nachos 89°
This weekend’s specials
Michelob 6-12 oz. N.R.’s $2.89
Busch 12-0z. Cans $2.39

 

 

Se 66 @ bd bd 6 6 ob et te tan: | 6Cl Rae

i ee ee ee ee
Page 4, Fancy Dress

 

 

 

By EDWIN BELL
Phi Staff Writer

Last time the Mighty In-
vaders came to Lexington, they
drew a large audience and left a
growing appetite for more reg-
gae bands. Well, Thursday
night in the Evans Dining Hall
the Rastafarian group will
return to satisfy the hunger.
Reggae, originating from
Jamaica, has spread through-
out the U.S. due to the movie
“The Harder They Come”
featuring Jimmy Cliff and the
mass appeal of Bob Marley and
the Wailers.

Rastafarianism is the
Jamaican-born religion of the
people. The Mighty Invaders’

songs attest to a living God, the
need for unity of all mankind,
the heritage of African culture,

 

 

 

 

Timetable
Thursday, March 3
Place: Evans Dining Hall
Time: 9p.m.-1la.m.
Admission: $3 and student ID
Bands: The Mighty Invaders
The Steve Bassett Band
Dress: Casual

Friday, March 4
Place: Doremus Gym
Time: Doors open at8:30 p.m.
Bands begin at 9 p.m.-12:45 a.m.
Admission: Fancy Dress Ticket

Bands: Guy Lombardo’s Royal Canadians (new Gym)

NRBQ (old Gym)
Voltage Brothers (old gym)
B. Willie Smith (500 level classroom )
Billy Wirtz (500 level classroom )
Dress: Black Tie

ancy Dress timetable

SAB Supplies
I ssi soca cee ens keet hs 3 for $1 or 50* a piece
ONS Ss a Leads so + Bepee ees whak ens $9 (long sleeve)
PG iy ake i EE ar ean hie hg RO $1.50
TRCN OR s,s ae wha ss PEO ON ORR a er ts $30
Te Ge I ios ie 55s hae tenes pe sae rains Fink $3
(all beverages included)
Additional Information

Tickets for Fancy Dress go on sale Mon., Feb. 28, 9a.m.
No parking behind the gym or dorms.
All access to the 300 level of the gym will be limited to coat check-

ing only.

Beer will be served Thursday and Friday nights.

Please respect Security.

 

 

 

 

 

i

x
S
x
S
x
é
x
{
:

A A A) > A ) A ()

 

a DD OD 0D D0 0D DD 0-0 0D 0D 0D OED OED 0D OOD OST OSD 5

fhfmon

FLORIST & GREENERY

Flowers for Your Fancy Dress Needs

165 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

$:30-5:00

(703) 463-9152

VISA or Master Charge

I DD RD OD ND OD ) AE) AED- ) D ) AAP O -ERD O ER

RR

L

Reggae with the
Mighty Invaders

the need for equal rights and
justice, as well as the need for
love and understanding. Rastas
also smoke a lot of herb which
people usually associate with
reggae music. Ms. Cole, a lead
singer in the band, states, ‘“‘It’s
a sacred herb. It’s part of our
religion. It gives us deep in-
spiration.”’

And inspiration is how the In-
vaders convey their music to
new audiences. Reggae music
has influenced such notable ar-
tists as the Rolling Stones and
Eric Clapton, and’ many critics
predict it will have a wider ef-
fect.

The Mighty Invaders’ ‘‘fami-
ly” consists of seven members.
Lead singer Tony Taylor has
been said to have a _ voice
characterized by the rawness of
Bob Marley. and the sensual
crooning of Marvin Gaye. He is
accompanied by Yvonne Dean,
one of few female reggae
singers. Stedford Clark - (bass)
and Colly ‘Sticks’? Hendricks
(drum) give the music its
rhythmic and syncopated tex-
ture. The rest of the band is
Trevor Hibbert (lead and
rhythm guitar), Michelle Cole
(keyboards), and Stanley Cole
(percussion vocalists).

The members are all native
born Jamaicans who moved to
Baltimore to discover the land
of opportunity. Stedford Clark
states, ‘‘My mother came about
15 years ago, and I wanted to
come to see what it is like.
Everybody was talking about
America, that it was a lot freer,
that it had more opportunities
to make money, and I wanted to

“come see,”

After moving to Baltimore,
the members of the band felt
that there was a cold gap be-
tween blacks and whites, sc
they decided to form a band
called the Mighty Invaders to
unify the people. Their songs
are mostly remakes of Bob
Marley, the Mighty Diamonds,
Johnny Clarke, and Peter Tosh,
but they also play originals.

The Invaders have built uj
impressive credentials that in
clude opening concerts for Den
nis Brown (who has sold mor
albums in Jamaica than Bo!
Marley) and the Clash. Thei
music is lively and spirited an
reaches its peak when the au
dience responds to the music.

Also, opening the show Thur:
day night for the Mighty Ir
vaders will be The Stev
Bassett Band. Steve Bassett ha
been around Virginia for
number of years. His band he
changed from its earlier form
new members have given th
band more of a rock and ro
sound as compared to its earlic
beach sound.

 
Fancy Dress, Page 5

 

 

NRBQ headlines the old gym Friday

By EDWIN BELL
Phi Staff Writer

Friday night in the old gym
the Voltage Brothers will be
sharing the spotlight with an ex-
perienced and innovative band,
NRBQ. The band has_ been
around since 1969 and has

released several albums. They
are a favorite at W&L and have
appeared at the Cockpit
numerous times. The style of
this band is hard to describe. An

attempt at this would bring to
mind, soul, jazz, R&B, blues,
honky-tonk, C&W, pure pop,
reggae, Motown, touches of
avant garde, Sun Ra, and New
Orleans ‘‘tonk.”’

NRBQ (New Rhythm and
Blues Quintet) originated in
Miami around 1969. The
members of the band include Al
Anderson (guitar), Joey Spam-
pinato (bass), Terry Adams
(keyboards), and Tom Ardolino
(drums).

Recently NRBQ has also add-
ed two horns for a jazzier sound.
Called the ‘‘whole wheat
horns,’’ Don Adams (trombone)
and Keith Spring (tenor sax)
provide this added dimension to
the group.

NRBQ’s debut appearance
came under the Columbia
record label. This record has
been cited for its surprising
predictions of the present
trends. The music was ‘‘jazz-
rock,” R&B, and the current
wave called ‘‘rockabilly’’ (e.g.
Stray Cats). Following their
debut album was a collabora-
tion with Carl Perkins (‘‘Blue

Suede Shoes”’), who has recent-
ly recorded songs with Paul Mc-
Cartney. The effort was titled
“‘Boppin’ The Blues.”’

Next NRBQ recorded ‘“‘All
Hopped Up” and ‘“‘At Yankee

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO
23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-s988

Wendall’s
Barber Shop

| need your head
in my business

9 South Jefferson St.
Open 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.

 

ble five).

The band has played together
for 14 years and knows exactly
how to bring out the best in each
other, Terry Adams is easily
the most recognizable member
due to his blonde bangs and uni-
que kevboard style. He has been
called by Rolling Stone
Magazine the ‘‘Thelonious
Monk Meets Little Richard,

elbows-to-the-keyboard honky-
tonking”’ master of keyboards.

Stadium.” The latter was con-
sidered their best effort:
and the critics hailed’ it as a
record ahead of its time.

Recently, the band has
released two albums on its own -
label, Red Rooster Records.

The latest effort titled ‘‘Tiddly
Winks”’ was reviewed in Rolling
Stone Magazine and Creem
Magazine. The Feb. 19, 1981
issue of Rolling Stone gave the
record four stars (out of a possi-

  
  
  
  
   

(i> WO Get Your

7, ' Fane
4 nul % ) poms
3 “SS ! Haircut
Pas i, With Us
Ke | 9A.M-5P.M

Old Main Building
Lexington, Va.

463-9588 |

  
 

MARIE’S”
HAIRSTYLISTS

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This

Your Headquarters For
Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere

    

 

 

 

Joey Spampinato plays the bass
and is one of the founding
members of the band. Al Ander-
son shares the lead vocals with

Terry Adams and plays lead
guitar. Rounding out the group
is Tom Ardolino who provides
the rattle and roll beat that
underscores each song.

The songs they perform range
from Sun Ra’s ‘‘Rocket Number
Nine”’ to originals such as ““Me
and the Boys.”’

 

NRBQ performs onstage with
a relentless adolescent energy
that is sure to get the crowd’s
feet dancing. They also always
add a new twist to familiar ”
songs.

So, Friday night the old gym
should be a great arena for their
best music. The Voltage
Brothers combined with NRBQ
Friday night’s music will be a
stimulus to party and a cherish-
ed memory.

 

 

of quality

 

 

 
 

 

116 N. Main

 

 

 

Cabernet
Reg. 4.29
only °3.57
San Martin
Fumé Blanc
Reg. ‘7.25
only *4.95

  
 
 

10% off all
cheeses with
this ad!

 

 

463-3683

 

 
Page 6, Fancy Dress

 

Swing with B. Willie Smith in the 500’s

By EDWIN BELL
Phi Staff Writer

When I first heard the name
of this band in conjuction with
Friday night of Fancy Dress, I
was unsure about them. But
after reading their press clips, I
was greatly impressed by their
the credits, each member of the
band is versatile in his skill with
instruments, and each adds to a
feeling that this band will steal
the show Friday night.

Although the band may be un-
familiar in Virginia, they have
gathered a large following in
Maryland and and along the
Eastern Seaboard. The name of
the band is B. Willie Smith. The
members include Bruce W.
Smith, (from which the name of
the band is taken) a versatile
musician who plays lead and
background vocals, drums, and
rhythm guitar. Sharing the

MV

vocals with Smith is Bob Elliott
(bass guitar, synthesizer), and
Jerry Connolly (drums) who
provide the back beat for the
rhythm and blues sound. The
rest of the band is composed of
Steve Baldino (lead guitar,
acoustic guitar, backing
vocals), Mike Cavadini (piano,
alto sax, bass vocals and back-
ing vocals, clarinet), and Bill
Holloman (tenor and baritone
sax, trumpet, organ, piano,
backing vocals, synthesizer,
clarinet). As can be seen from
the credits each member of the
band is versatile in his skill with
instruments and each adds to a
entertaining choreography.

The B. Willie Smith sound is
best described by Bruce W.
Smith.

“Our main influence is from
the Chicago blues scene, artists
like Muddy Waters and Little
Walter. Originally we played
this material. When two of the

 

the

 

  

Jae en

lexington,va.24450

Fancy Flowers
for
Fancy Dress!

OGRE > ARE ERR ERE) ER

Hours: 10-5
Monday thru Saturday

103 N. Jefferson,
at the corner of Main & Jefferson
Across from Stop-In

463-9841

 

Oris
garden

103 n. jefferson

703°463°9841

 

 

 

   

guys bought saxes it changed
the sound a bit — a sort of jazzy
horn-swing sound.”

The band
from New Haven, Conn.
It has recorded two
albums that received rave
reviews, ‘‘World’s Favorite
Songs” and ‘“‘B. Willie Smith.”
Their song list includes such
rhythm and blues favorites as
“Mac the Knife,’ ‘‘Route 66,”
and ‘‘Secret Agent Man.” They
are noted for their ability to get
a crowd on its feet and dancing.

originates

Probably their best creden-
tials come from their ap-
pearances as the opening band
for Southside Johnny, John Lee
Hooker, and George Thorogood.
So, Friday night, make a trip
upstairs to the 500 level
classroom to see a band that
may steal the show at Fancy
Dress. The B. Willie Smith

Band will soon be another W&L
favorite after its debut at Fancy
Dress.

 

a ee ee

University Florists
15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyds)
Get your corsages for
Fancy Dress now.
The Closest Florist To Campus!

463-6080

ee a a a ee eee
=

6

a sort of

       

jazzy horn-

    
     
 

swing sound’

 

Dine with us before Fancy Dress
6:00 - 9:00
463-9331
(No Reservations Necessary )

      
   
 
 

30 N. Main Street

 
 
Fancy Dress, Page7

 

 

Voltage Brothers charge FD

The Voltage Brothers are not
at all new to the W&L communi-
ty. This dynamic group of 10
played no less than three times
in four days at Fancy Dress
1982, performing with equal
energy and excitement at each
appearance. The group also ap-
peared at several of the girls
schools last spring and this fall
and have heralded consistently
high reviews.

The band plays a variety of
funk, soul and some rock and
roll. The nearly overwhelming
number of vocalists and in-
strumentalists, the Voltage
Brothers have the ability to
make any room or hall come
alive. Almost each member of
the group plays at least two in-

Friday night

 

Lombardo’s

Canadians

stick to

tradidtion

History books are full of
words about yesterday. Be-
tween the covers of our musical
history is the unforgettable
sound and style of Guy Lombar-
do, a musical force that produc-
ed for America a special kind of
musical magic that was ac-
claimed world-wide.

The responsibility for the
recreation of the famous Royal
Canadians sound has been put
in the hands of Art Mooney, a
personable, energetic and most
talented musician.

The recreation of the Guy
Lombardo’s Royal Canadians is
more than just music. It is a col-
lection of memories and a
reflection of one of the great
contributors to the Big Band
Era. It has become important
therefore that the director of
the reformed orchestra be a
man who was not only musical-
ly capable, but whose musical
Style was in the tradition of Guy
Lombardo.

In assuming the direction of
the Royal Canadians, Art
Mooney is ideal. He has worked
with the greats of that era. He
toiled with them through dance
band remotes and one-night
stands. He shared their joy in
juke box successes. He shared
with them their dreams. And
from that shared experience he
represents the spirit of one of
our brightest musical stars,
Guy Lombardo.

   
  
  
  
   
   
  
    

struments which range from
trumpets to trombones to
keyboards to bongo drums.

Aside from the wide range of
music, the Voltage Brothers
also feature a captivating stage
show featuring dancing, joking,
and an occasional magic trick.
Utilizing the traditional set-up
of four microphones across the
front of the stage the lead
vocalists face the audience
directly and draw it onto the
stage.

The group originates out of a
Rochester ghetto group named
Funky Heavy which was then
taken under the directive wing
of Jerry Griffin in the late 60s.
The nucleus developed from
that band has now been perfor-

ming together as the Voltage
Brothers for more than 10
years.

In 1976, the Voltage Brothers
signed a major recording con-
tract with Lifesong records and
became a part of SAS Inc., who
also produces such groups as
Gladys Knight and the Pips, BB
King, and Gene McDaniels.

Although the Voltage
Brothers present a well known
and unique show, they are con-
stantly changing their reper-
toire to keep up with weekly
developments in popular funk
and soul. No doubt, Friday
night will present another
chapter in the success of the
Voltage Brothers at Washington

ages

 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
    
  
   
 

 

Records - Tapes
Stereo Components

LEXINGTON - BUENA VISTA SHOPPING PARK 463-9494

ee

 

 

 

AT110E

 

List $65.00

 

AT125LC

 

List $130.00
OUR PRICE $24.95 OUR PRICE $49.95

SANYO Micro-
ini Size Stereo Cassette

Cartridges

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
     
 
  
  

 

 

 

Headphones*

— SUPER CUT-OUTS —

100’s of Hard-to-find LP’s, from $1.99
Over 1400 Used LP’s, starting at 10°

 

From.
$29.95 - $149.95

SANYO Mini-
Size AM/FM Cassette
Stereo Player

   
  

 

@SANVO Mini
AM/FM Stereo Cassette Player
with Lightweight Stereo

 

 

Sandtoich

 

Oly Main

Come eat with us during Fancy Dress
Wake up late with a hangover; some cheese, a
sandwich, and a coke will cure the problem.

463-2595

Shoppe

 

 

 

 

The Country Kitchen
An Old Fashion Bakery

8 North Main

$9995

#599

 

MaXell, tts |
®  _LNC-120—-2BAG ((
List $11.18
MAXELL OUR PRICE $7.99
MAXELL || UDXLII Deal
UDC 902-PACK || 2-UDXLII
| . MAXELL
tr > Reg. $8.98 c-90’s LNC-46—2 BAG \
* NOW $7.49 Reg. $10.98 List $5.18
NOW $9.98 OUR PRICE $3.89
BTDK. 1m
DC-90 2-BAG
| MEMOREX |
eo TDK Reg. $6.50 HI-BIAS—3 BAG ))
. — ag arm NOW ONLY $4.99 | Buy 2, Get One FREE \
; ; TDK Reg. $17.97
ecnnica NOWONLY#399 | TDK NOW $11.98
Reg. $10.98
@SANYO
NOW ONLY :
$9.88 Stereo Component 1

 

-_

 

 

 

RS TUNER/AMPLIFIER
+ Sensitive AM/FM stereo tuner.

+ Plenty of power: 20 watts per channel.

+ Separate bass and treble controls.
+ LED signal strength meter.
05 CASSETTE DECK

* Plays any tape type, including Metal.

@SANVO Miniature @SANVO AM/FM ' + Dojby* noise reduction.
Stereo Cassette Player Cassette Recordey with + Mluminated VU meters.
with Lightweight Headphones Variable Monitor $5 SPEAKER SYSTEM
\ + Powerful 2-way Speakers with 4° cone
e-—, | woofers and 2° tweeters.
0 SCC - ,
‘Sonal
ww,
? List $4999
a | mms, e 0 p e
a :
va —>- @ Our Price
mie {
|

$4299

Eat in or take out

Phone: 703-463-569

   
  
     
   

|

 

if

© EE © <> © <> © <> © <a> © <a © <ee> © <a 6 <a © <a

“
 

Page 8, Fancy Dress

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ast Re
its i

<i
ok

UL
ay

. . whl
ee ollie.

' Hi 4% ‘

ae Oe! Meas,
WY fie

nls,
Abad, Wl,

WP ee,
Wee

Wie. “a,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fancy Dress

HANGOVER
BRUNCH
11:30-1:00
Orange Juice
Tomato Juice
Alka Seltzer
Chef’s Homemade
Vegetable Soup
Eggs Benedict
with Hollandaise Sause
Waffles with Syrup
Grilled Chopped Beefsteak
Whipped Potatoes
Whole Kernel Corn
Assorted Breads

$3.50

 
 
 
  
  
      

 

Food Service Department

Evans Dining Hall —

1983

March 4-5-6

Sunday Brunch
11:30-12:45

Orange Juice

Fresh Fruit Bow!

Scrambled Eggs

Fried Eggs

Hot Cakes with Syrup

Waffles with Syrup

Breakfast Ham

Grilled Bacon

Bagels with Cream Cheese

Toast, Butter, Jelly

Fresh Donuts

$3.50
i\

} ns
(Whole, Chocolate, Lo-Fat Milks, Fruit Punch, Hot Coffee/Tea, Iced Tea

i

    
 

~

 

 

¢ i

i One dollar 1

é | i
off !
ot i
‘a $1.00 off Any 16” pizza &
{ : One coupon per pizza. ;
4 i
: Fast, Free Delivery :

s Phone: 463-7375 :

4

t '
= I. sso dinincelieioninieeesmeneniiiiiieeeteninaan ei

re

Savor the
moment

Let Domino's Pizza
: fe bake you a tasty pizza
% to share in the inti-
. macy of your own home.
Just call the Domino's
Pizza nearest you
and you'll have dinner
within 30 minutes with
no charge for delivery.
That's a promise!

Fast, Free Delivery

Our drivers carry less
than $10.00

Limited delivery area
1981. Dominos Pizz

 

54S. iteison HSS. TUTS

11 am-1 am = Sun.-Thurs.
1] am-2 am Fri.-Sat.

  

 

PRPs ease eaTeareeeR

 
 

 

VOLUME 82

Ring

NUMBER 21

THE UNIVE en ee

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY 0552
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450 (f,: FZ
No, 2

-tum Phi MAR 1 1 198

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia March 10, 1983

RBITY LIBRARY

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fancy Dress Ball

A couple takes a break behind Guy Lombardo’s Royal Canadians
in the Main Ballroom. Approximately 1500 couples attended the
Ball on Friday night.

 

 

Sophomore charged with

possession of cocaine

By PHIL MURRAY
Phi Staff Writer

A sophomore at Washington
and Lee University was ar-
rested and charged with posses-
sion of cocaine with intent to
distribute following an_ in-
vestigation by city and state
police that began in mid-
December.

Charles M. Phillips, of Mont-
clair, N.J., was arrested by
state police on Feb. 4 after they
had. stopped his car on In-
terstate 81 near Natural Bridge,
according to Officer Steven E.
Crowder of the Lexington
Police Department.

Approximately one ounce of
cocaine with a street value of
$2,400 was found in Phillips’
car, Crowder said.

Crowder said the department
became suspicious of Phillips
when it received information
alleging that he was sending
large sums of money to various
places in the country. Phillips
also reportedly picked up
packages at the Greyhound Bus

Station on Waddell Street that
had come by Federal Express,
he said.

Crowder said the tip came
from an informant but would
not elaborate.

Both Crowder and state police
kept Phillips under surveillance
after Christmas break.

Crowder said police were
aware that Phillips sent $1,000
to Florida. On Feb. 4 state
police followed him to the
Roanoke airport where he
allegedly picked up a package
that had arrived by Federal Ex-
press, he said.

Phillips then was followed un-
til he entered Rockbridge Coun-
ty, where his car was pulled
over by state police and search-
ed with a narcotics dog.

Phillips was released from
the Rockbridge County jail ona
$1,500 bond. A_ preliminary
hearing has been scheduled for
March 25 in the county General
District Court.

Theme a success

FD ‘83 in the black

By B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Staff Writer
The last remnants of carpet

‘tape have. been stripped from

=

the walls, the last. puddles of
beer have been cleaned from
the floor, rented tuxedos have
been returned, and Fancy
Dress ’83 is history.

’ “Waiting on the Robert E.
Lee’’ proved a popular theme,
and according to Fancy Dress
Director John Haywood, the
ball was a success.

“It went very well, it was a
first class act,” he said. ‘‘It ran
smoothly this year and
everyone seemed to have a
great time.”

Haywood was_ especially
proud of some of the logistic in-
novations in decoration styles

EC Elections

Jenevein

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi EC Correspondent

Junior class: president Bob
Jenevein edged Executive Com-
mittee secretary Mike Singer in
last Thursday’s balloting to win
the position of EC president for
next year.

Jenevein garnered 386 votes
to Singer’s 327. The two had
earned spots in the runoff by
beating out Markham Pyle and
Gov Slahor the preceding Mon-
day.
Dave Judge had already won
the vice presidential spot easily
over two write-in candidates,
and Len Howard was elected
secretary over no opposition.
Neither of those races required

and the use of an extra band. An
additional entrance into the old
gym worked to ease the crowd-
ed conditions experienced last
year, but Haywood said the
most important change came in
the decorating process.

‘“‘We learned as many skills
as we could. We did everything,
we didn’t hire anyone. We even
cut.the lattice strips ourselves
for the new gym. Obviously, it
paid off.”’

After last year’s deficit of
over $20,000, the 1983 F.D.
budget was the most-watched
aspect of the operation. Though
figures will not be tallied for at
least a week, Haywood did
volunteer: ‘We have no fear of

losing money. We will be in the
black.”

Ticket sales among students
increased ‘‘a little over last
year,’’ and though the Student
Activities Board has not com-
pleted the count, the sales were
within the range budgeted by
the SAB. A big boost, said
Haywood, was alumni sales;
which increased 50 percent over
Diamond Jubilee sales to grad-
uates. The memorabilia for this
Ball also sold ‘“‘very well.’’ The
complete allotment of 1100 T-
shirts was sold early last week.
This year, the SAB was the only
organization selling shirts. The
posters and grain cups also sold
well, and for those who did not
obtain them, the surplus will go
on sale shortly.

takes presidency

a Thursday runoff.

Monday’s Executive Commit-
tee meeting was highlighted by
budget reports, some infighting
over Fancy Dress, and a Mock
Convention monopoly request.

Jim Falk, co-editor of the
Political Review, reported that
several writers had been given
extensions and that the publica-
tion would be printed and
distributed in mid-April. Falk
expects to obtain 14 to 18 ar-
ticles, although he was not able
to get articles from Virginia
Senators John Warner and Paul
Trible as previously hoped.

The chairman of Focus, Chris
Bouquet, reported that the fall
issue of the Excelsior, publish-
ed as an insert to the ‘‘Ring-tum

 

 

Inside the Phi
Elam works with —

ABC News .....p.2

Tea & Sympathy .....p.4

Emmer reviews career

<iovitied

 

 

Phi,’’ cost $200. The winter
issue will be printed shortly
after the March 25 deadline for
articles.

The subject of this spring’s
symposium is scheduled to be
future and technology, and Bou-
quet is currently looking into
the possibility of getting
speakers in that area.

Although the final results will
not be known until next week,
Fancy Dress was ‘‘much closer
to our budget than we were last
year,’’ according to Len
Howard.

Approximately 1400 tickets
were sold before the ball, in-
cluding 160 to alumni. Money
was also saved because the ser-
vices of buildings and grounds
were only required for four
hours on Saturday morning to
clean up. The Student Activities
Board had hired seven students
to work from 1 a.m. to 8 a.m.
after the ball to clean up the
gym.

Howard reported that Coach
Dick Miller was pleased be-
cause there was very little
damage to the gym.

EC President Bennett Ross
then mentioned that he and vice
president Morgan Griffith were
the only two members who
helped the SAB when asked.
Ross said he had told the SAB
he could get all the members to
help out for at least an hour and
criticized those who did not
help. ;

(continued on page 4)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1983

 

 

Coimmentary

The lost students

By TODD SMITH
Special to the Phi
‘*.. Tis bitter cold,
And I am sick at heart.”’
—from Hamlet, I:i

They call these the suicide
months in the dorms at big
universities, but, fortunately,
not at Washington and Lee.

Winter does bring depression
to W&L, though less
dramatically. A student doesn’t
come back after Christmas.
Another doesn’t come back
after winter break. Another is
skipping class today.

And no one notices.

The dining hall table I sat at
freshman year, ’79-’80, was
strange. You might say the
guys honked. But they were
charged up about being here
and ready to fight their way into
the system. I remember their
campaign to coeducate the
school. Give up, go with the
flow, I wanted to tell them.

Except for me and one more
fellow, the 6 or 7 at that table
are all gone now. I wonder who
noticed their departure.

In this search for the disap-
pearing student, we might turn
to the faculty for leadership. We
might also be disappointed.

“T have found that a student
has the ability to make himself
or break himself,” a professor
told me the other day. Another
professor told me last term, of a
freshman advisee who was
skipping most of his classes, ‘‘I
kind of gave him a kick in the
pants, told him how many peo-
ple were busting their asses for
him, and how he was just throw-
ing it away. But it didn’t seem
to sink in.”’

For some reason, W&L iden-
tifies with the big university,
which promises no such thing as
personal attention, instead of
with the small school, which
promises no such thing as
privacy. Those of us who ever
evaded the parietal police at a
womans’ college might agree

Letter

 

Stable for Stachura?

To the Editor:

Say, who’s responsible for let-
ting Mike Stachura out of the
barnyard? His arrogantly ig-
norant and aggressively obnox-
ious “Time Out...” which ap-
peared in last week’s Phi makes
one wonder how he pecks his
typewriter keys for the goose
feathers.

Herschel’s ‘‘infamous mis-
take’’ wasn’t in foregoing a
diploma for the USFL, it was in
not doing it sooner and for more
money. Herschel is a football
player, and three varsity letters
from the University of Georgia
are more impressive than an
Athens diploma, and of relative-
ly equal significance academ-

with such an alignment, and
sacrifice unity for privacy, but
the fact is that there are
students wasting away around
us. No one is reaching out to
them.

Sure, they can’t be rescued.
But reaching out is something
we do for ourselves, to become
intelligent, interested people.

This exercise in compassion
is no liberal idea, but rather a
way of rehabilitating the school,
restoring the sense of communi-
ty that I know was here when
my father was here. It is time to
snap back from the ‘‘individual-
ism,’ more appropriately the
‘isolationism,”’ of the 1960s.

How?

Reinvigorating the campus
with a sense of intellectual pur-
pose and unity could not be
achieved by Focus, a thinking
man’s mock convention (Dr.
Barry Machado suggested nam-
ing it the Mock Intellectual
Symposium). Perhaps, but not
probably, unity can be restored
by the proposed curriculum
revisions, which the faculty is
now scratching over.

At a University Council
meeting, Dr. Lad Sessions said
the proposal’s extra course re-
quirements could be perceived
as indication of the faculty’s
concern for the students.

But senior Chris Stokes asked
why the faculty couldn’t show
its concern by just telling the
advisees to take a lab science or

a language.
One reason, I think, is that the
advisor-advisee _ relationships

are more shallow than they
could be. And we could use
fewer professors who post
something like ‘‘10:30 — 11:00”
under the inaccurate title ‘‘Of-
fice Hours.”’

The responsibility for the first
step lies with the ones who know
what’s what in college educa-
tion, that is, the faculty.

Their excellence is not at
stake. The question is: Where
are they leading us?

ically. College football is big
business these days, and
Herschel was in it to win. Now
he is rich and playing in a
league good enough to hold him
to 60 yards his first day.

And if the SAB’s opinion of
our athletic complex is that of a
“party ground,”’ then perhaps
Mr. Stachura should transfer to
UGA, where the athletic
grounds cost alot more than 5
million dollars and the class-
rooms make quite adequate
grounds for parties.

Sincerely,
Robert J. Kelly
Atlanta, GA
Class of ’86

 

 

 

 

od ‘ iL — = a

Tonight’s 20/ 20 exposé

UTICA Peer ear

tS ‘
*~

 

features W&L student’s work

By BILL ROBERTS
Editor-in-Chief

Washington and Lee senior
Pryse Elam played an impor-
tant role in an ABC News in-
vestigation of Pratt and
Whitney Aircraft contracts with
the United States Air Force.

The six-week investigation
resulted in a special ABC pro-
duction, which was partly film-
ed in Elam’s hometown of
Oklahoma City, Okla. The first
report from their inquiry will be
broadcast tonight on ABC’s
20/20 at 10:00 p.m.

“The basic thrust of this in-
vestigation is that we have got
some very strong evidence in-
dicating that Pratt and Whitney
executives have been charging
questionable expenses to De-
partment of Defense con-
tracts,’ Elam said Monday
night.

One of the expenses in ques-
tion is a $67,500 contribution by
the Government Products Divi-
sion of Pratt and Whitney Air-
craft to the Oklahoma Art
Center, where the wife of
recently retired Air Force Ma-
jor General J.T. Edwards is a
trustee.

In the spring of 1982, General
Edwards solicited the $67,500
gift from Frank W. McAbee Jr.,
president of the Government
Products Division in West Palm
Beach, Fla. At the time, Ed-
wards was the commanding of-
ficer of Tinker Air Force Base
near Oklahoma City, which is
one of Pratt and Whitney’s
primary contractors.

Pratt and Whitney company
records show the $67,500 was
originally contributed from a
business overhead account of
the Government Products Divi-
sion rather than from the cor-
poration’s gift fund.

Less than one month after the
Art Center was sent a check for
$67,500, an internal watchdog
revort at Tinker AFB showed

that Pratt and Whitney has
retroactively applied  un-
justified price increases on air-
craft engine parts sold to the
Air Force,

The report, filed,on July 12,
1982 by Robert S. Hancock,
deputy chief of the commodity
division of the Air Logistics
Center at Tinker AFB, states
the Pratt and Whitney repricing
will result in a 300 percent cost
increase exceeding $140 million
for fiscal 1982.

As. commanding officer of the
base, Edwards was responsible
for supervising the monitors on
Pratt and Whitney’s contract
performance.

Tonight’s 20/20 broadcast will
explore the circumstances of

Pratt and Whitney’s charitable
contribution within the broad
context of the company’s pric-
ing policies on defense con-
tracts.

Elam got into the 20/20 in-
vestigation through Pulitzer
Prize winner and investigative
reporter for the Washington
Times , Clark R. Mollenhoff,
who is currently a professor of
law and journalism at
Washington and Lee.

“I started off on an indepen-
dent research project with
Mollenhoff in January,’’ Elam
said. “I was writing analyses
for Mollenhoff to use as back-
ground for his stories in the
Washington Times.”’

(continued on page 4)

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

AEE, bcos 6 cavb cea Veer es C6
Businesd ManGGGF «oo. 5 co cee ee sacs
Nowa Bats 5 oie c.. 6-050 60s s Cueeis Unde occes
Layout Editor ...c. ccc cceoecceesenee cers
Sports Editor .......cccscecsecvennccenes
Assistant Sports Editor ...........-..60+5
Head Photographer ...........0.0eeeeeee
PHOCOGPAPNETS .... ec rvccccrccscorvcgdes

Entertainment Editor................+..:
ee ee eee

MOMS eer ee ee auye een re Bill Roberts
i phbke 400) eae EG ee Steve Perry
John Cleghorn, Allen Roberts, Rick Swagler
6 SUWV NES Gee eadee. fice e ss Jim Laurie
Ob Rew Vas PEEL 6 UOT OR ai ee Lee Nichols

ba eteeds tii ts es Dave Stevens
Mis even pce eek ce Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

ienkie eo eee David W. Johnston

John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter,

Advertising Manager .............0.00005
PO UGIONI aoa obi 5 oe es cases
Circulation Manager ..........0.esseeees
Chretien nc 0 bo 68 0 inh ohaes

ecien Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
(bab eUReeoe uel asta as Jim Wood

Rob Schlegal, B. Scott Tilley
Tom O’Brien

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is other wise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office,-room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity,
 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1983, Page 3

 

 

Tri-chairmen prepare Mock Convention 84

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor

“Tt should be the biggest
weekend of the year.”’

So Tri-Chairman Steven
Lewis describes the 1984
Democratic Mock Convention
at Washington and Lee, for
which planning has begun.

The event, which is scheduled
for May 11 and 12, 1984, is
described by United Press In-
ternational as ‘‘the nation’s
most accurate mock conven-
tion.”’

Held in the spring before
every presidential election, the
convention momentarily cap-
tures the eyes of the nation to
predict the out-of-power party’s
presidential nomination.

Since 1908, W&L_ students
have correctly predicted the na-
tion’s choice 12 out of 17 times,
missing only once in the last
nine elections.

 

 

Sweet Briar
gets 7th

president

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

Dr. Nenan Eleanor Fry has
been appointed the seventh
president of Sweet Briar Col-
lege, effective August 1. Fry,
dean of the college and pro-
fessor of history at Wells Col-
lege, will replace retiring Sweet
Briar president, Harold B.
Whiteman.

Victor W: Henningsen, Chair-
man of the Board of Directors,
announced Fry’s appointment
February 15, noting that ‘‘she
brings to Sweet Briar great
academic and administrative
skills ‘gained through many
years of experience in women’s
higher education.”’

Fry, who received her doc-
torate in history from Yale
University, has previously serv-
ed at Wilson College, a women’s
school in Pennsylvania,

Washington and Lee presi-
dent John D. Wilson, himself a
former president of Wells Col-
lege, said he had no speculation
of what Fry might do at Sweet
Briar. He called her an “ar-
ticulate, dignified, tall and at-
tractive’’ woman, noting
especially her strong speaking
abilities.

“T’m very happy Miss Fry
has been appointed president at
Sweet Briar, and I hope she is
successful there,’ he said.
Wilson had taken part in the hir-
ing of Fry at Wells in the spring
of 1975 but left for his position as
provost at Virginia Tech before
Fry joined the Wells faculty
that fall.

 

 

The student body will be
divided into 50 state caucuses
which will be made up of stu-
dents native to each state. A
prediction based on research
will be made by each state
caucus and a nomination may
be earned with a simple majori-
ty of the 1300 delegates’ votes.

A steering committee made
up of 20 law and undergraduate
students was selected in
February, the members of
which will chair several sub-
committees.

Lewis, Stephen Matrazzo and
Peter Muller were chosen as the
Tri-chairmen last year.

Subcommittees include pub-
lic relations, media, facilities,
speakers, finance, parade, plat-
form and the Journal, which is
the magazine program for the

convention.
State caucus chairmen will

also be named before the
spring, Lewis said. As well as

organizing state meetings and
parties, the state chairmen will
be largely responsible for the
research on which the nomina-
tion will be made.

Convention administrative
assistant Lee Feldman said that
the prediction will be made
from state newspapers, re-
search and political scientists’
opinions.

A budget based on the 1980
convention expenses which
totalled $64,000 has been set,

‘Lewis said. Funding will come

from several sources.

In addition to an Executive
Committee allocation, a Dallas
firm has donated twenty-five
$1,000 bonds as well as the in-
terest made on another donated
sum.

The school activity fee will
also be raised from $65 to $75.
Five dollars per student of this
tax increase will go to the mock
convention. Feldman explained

ABC correspondent to

ABC News correspondent
Carole Simpson will present a
lecture at Washington and Lee
University on Wednesday,
March 16.

Sponsored by the Student
Association for Black Unity at
W&L, Ms. Simpson’s lecture
will be at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The public is invited to attend.
There is no charge for admis-
sion.

Ms. Simpson joined ABC
News in January 1982 as a
general assignment correspon-
dent based in the Washington
bureau.

Prior to joining ABC, she had
spent seven years at the Wash-
ington bureau of NBC News.

EERE EI FOE LE IME DEC IIE IMEC IME

APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR

Above Lois’ Restaurant,
Across from Leggett on Main St.

j $175/month 12 mo. lease

CALL: Edward E. Smith

speak in chapel on Wed.

In her current position, Ms.
Simpson covers a variety of
issues that utilize her ex-
perience in reporting on Capitol
Hill and her background in
reporting on topics such as
health care, the environment,
education, welfare issues,
transportation, and housing.

Her experience includes
working as a general assign-
ment reporter and anchorper-
son at WMAQ-TV, the NBC sta-
tion in Chicago. While at
WMAQ, she reported two
award-winning documentaries,
one on sickle cell anemia and
the other on ‘Sudden Infant
Death Syndrome.”

463-4583 after 4 p.m.

ECE HE SIO EK:

Tre ene Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30
until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,

Garlic Bread you can eat for

Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and -

OY

OE

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

Bui

PHONE 463-7000

 

5

that the fee is raised every
mock convention year.

The convention schedule con-
sists of three convention ses-
sions and a traditional parade
down Lexington’s Main Street.

The parade will take place
Friday morning, Lewis said,
and will be followed by two ses-
sions Friday afternoon and Fri-
day night. The announcement of
the prediction will be made at
the Saturday session.

Lewis said contacts have
already begun in an effort to
find popular speakers for the
convention. He also said the
committee hoped to arrange.a
speaker for this spring.

Because of the convention’s
tradition of accuracy, the
media and public relations sub-
committees have begun prepar-
ations for a barrage of the
press.

‘We are trying to attract very
prominent national Democratic

figures who will attract the
media also,” Lewis explained.
He said the committee is ex-
pecting at least one major na-
tional television network (the
1980 convention was covered by
ABC), several major news-
papers and both wire services.

Lewis added that he is an-
ticipating a great deal of stu-
dent body support.

‘Ninety-nine percent of the
student body will be involved,”
he conjectured.

But, Lewis stressed that as
much support as can be had will
be needed.

“It’s a pretty serious under-
taking,” he said. “If anyone
feels that they can offer exper-
tise for the convention, we en-
courage them to come by.”’

“Right now,” added Feld-
man, “we are still in the
developmental stage.”

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

IN

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

 

da

 
   

i a i i a oe ae ee ee

 

 

March 15

 

 

“It's The Place To Be”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1983

PRYSE ELA!

      

 

20/20

(continued from page 2)

Since August 1982, Mollenhoff
has written a series of articles
for the Washington Times, ad-
vocating the case of George
Spanton, 62, a whistle blower in
the Defense Contract Audit
Agency. ‘

Spanton is the DCAA branch
chief in West Palm Springs,
Fla., and a key witness in a
Justice Department investiga-
tion of allegations of fraudulent
expenditures by Pratt and
Whitney Aircraft executives.

But Spanton’s superiors in the

- DCAA regional office in Atlan-
ta, Ga., have been trying to
force him into early retirement
in a bureaucratic effort to sup-
press his charges of fraud in
Pratt and Whitney finances.

‘*At first, Mollenhoff had me
pouring over General Account-
ing Office reports and other
documents in the library to see
if we could find anything that
could shed some light on the
Spanton thing,”’ Elam said.

As their investigation carved
wider and wider circles of im-
plication, Elam focused on the
$67,500 Pratt and Whitney Con-
tribution to the Oklahoma Art
Center. By early February, he
was headed for Oklahoma City
to work with 20/20 producer
Charlie Thompson on the film-
ing of tonight’s show.

“The way an investigative
piece for television works is, the
producers go out and document
more than they need to prove

- the answers to their questions,”’

Elam said.

Generally, ‘‘what you start
with is information from a
source that you cannot possibly
use in any way,’’ Mollenhoff
said Tuesday. ‘“‘With regard to
the Art Center, Elam did most
of the advance documentation.”’

“Of course it was under my
direction,’”’ Mollenhoff said,

‘but he didn’t need much direc-
tion.”’ :

“Twenty/twenty and Mollen-
hoff are coordinating the in-
vestigation, sharing informa-
tion, keeping each other up to
date,” said Elam, whose impor-
tant contribution to the 20/20
segment was in corroborating
Mollenhoff’s information before.
the ABC News team went to
Oklahoma.

‘“‘While we were down there,
we spent a lot of time looking at
file tape for pictures to use on
the air,’ Elam said. “It’s a
back-up technique in case the
people you are trying to inter-
view won’t go on camera.

‘We did all the~ pre-
interviews, just to talk to them
to ask if they would go on
camera, then you bring in the
reporter, which in this case is
Geraldo Rivera.

“He is really an impressive

man, he has got a lot of.

presence, poise and tact.

“‘We briefed him at dinner the
night before and then at break-
fast before we went out.

‘‘He has a very keen mind, he
is able to pick up things , make
connections in things which are
presented to him very quickly,
which is a skill that allows him
to handle four investigations at
once.

‘Geraldo was able to ask the
right questions,’ Elam said.

During the pre-interview with
Edwards, the general said he
did not know the Pratt and
Whitney art donation was
charged to a government
financed account. ‘‘And that le
did not think that that was a
problem,’’ Eiam recounted.

‘“‘He said that he would be
willing to say.so on camera, but
that he didn’t see how that
would help us with our in-
vestigation.

 

 

Concerts This Term

March
12 Confunction and Daz
14 Marshall Tucker Band ’

17 Kenny Rogers & Crystal Gayle

20 Billy Squier

24 Randy Newman

26 Pure Prairie League
28 Tom Petty, Nick Lowe
29 Tom Petty, Nick Lowe

April
3 Alabama (sold out)
8 The New Virginians

Roanoke Civic Center
Roanoke Civic Center
Roanoke Civic Center
Charlotte Col, NC

The Bayou, Washington
Virginia Military Institute
Capitol Center

William and Mary

Salem Civic Center
Roanoke Civic Center

 

 

‘We agreed to meet Edwards
again in a week, enough time
for him to conduct his own in-
vestigation, which he said he
would do.

‘‘We came back a week later,
when he said he would be free,
but he was unavailable.

‘‘His secretary told us he was
at a symposium, a fund raiser
for an energy center at the
University of Oklahoma.”’

Elam telephoned the sym-
posium, which was being held
at the University stadium, and
requested a schedule of speak-
ers. The 20/20 team planned to
interview Edwards. during a
break between speakers.

‘“‘T went in ahead of Geraldo
and the rest at the fund raiser
and was greeted by the publici-
ty director,” Elam said. “‘I in-
troduced myself as a member
of ABC News and asked if we
could bring in the cameras and
she said, ‘Oh, this is just the
kind of publicity we need.’ ”’

The ABC News team was
hustled into the coffee room
before the break in fund raiser
speeches and the publicity
director went to find Edwards.

“Edwards came around the
corner on the coffee break and
Geraldo was there,”’ Elam said.
“He didn’t know that we were
going to be there until he came
around the corner.”’

The general responded to all

_ of Rivera’s questions and the

coffee room scene will probably
be part of tonight’s show.

With congressional hearings
on the defense budget beginning
Monday and the national con-
troversy surrounding the
Reagan administration’s
military build-up, the in-
vestigative journalists are hop-
ing their work will have a
positive impact.

Theatre

Lennon awarded Rikkyo

exchange scholarship

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity junior Sean Lennon of
Newark, Ohio, has become the
first W&L student to win a full
scholarship for study at Japan’s
Rikkyo University.

A physics and mathematics
major at W&L, Lennon will
enroll at Rikkyo in April and
will spend 10 months at the
Tokyoschool.

Washington and Lee has had
an exchange program with Rik-
kyo, one of Japan’s top-ranking
private institutions, since 1977.
This year W&L senior Robert
Crawford is in residence at Rik-
kyo while one Rikkyo student,
Akiko Nishi, is enrolled at
Washington and Lee under the
exchange program.

W&L is one of four American
institutions with which Rikkyo
has an exchange agreement.
The others are the University of
Chicago, the University of the
South, and Kenyon College.

“Although we have had
several students take advan-
tage of the program and study
at Rikkyo, Sean is the first of
our students to be awarded a
scholarship. for an_ entire
academic year. This represents
quite an impressive ac-
complishment for Sean,” said
Minor L. Rogers, associate pro-

fessor of religion at W&L and °

director of the university’s East
Asian Studies Program.

During his year at Rikkyo,
Lennon will continue to take
courses in his major fields of
study. He will also pursue
Studies in Japanese language,

Japanology, and Japanese
history.

“In addition to studying the
Japanese culture in the best
possible way —that is, by living
in Japan — I am anxious to
learn the different methods of
teaching and of viewing scien-
tific and practical problems,”
said Lennon, who is completing
his third year of Japanese
language study at W&L.

Lennon will live with a
Japanese family while at Rik-
kyo. :

At W&L, Lennon has worked
as student manager of Evans
Dining Hall. He has also served
as business manager of the
W&L Fencing Club.

A graduate of Newark Senior
High School, he is the son of
Mrs. James J. Lennon and the
late Mr. Lennon.

Rikkyo University was found-
ed in 1874 by a missionary of the
Anglican Episcopal Church.
The university has five col-
leges, each with a graduate
division, and seven research in-
stitutions. The teaching faculty
numbers approximately 700
while the university has more
than 12,000 undergraduate and
graduate students enrolled.

Tea & Sympathy opens March 21

Though set in the 1950s, the
themes of Robert Anderson’s
play “Tea and Sympathy”’ are
as relevant today as they were
when the play opened on Broad-
way in September, 1953.

That, at least, is the opinion of
Washington and Lee University
drama instructor Paula Lang-
don, who is directing the
University Theatre’s upcoming
production of ‘Tea and Sym-
pathy.”

“The play has a lot to do with
being different or, at least, be-
ing branded by one’s peers as
different and the isolation that
this difference causes,” says
Langdon. ‘‘I think the theme is
still relevant because of the way
each person within his or her
own environment struggles for
acceptance.

“T’ would hope that when the
play is over the audience would
have to make some decisions
about prejudice, about the
tendency of labeling people as
different and then rejecting,
maybe even persecuting, those
people.”’

“Tea and Sympathy,’ the
third production by the Univer-
sity Theatre this academic
year, will open March 21 1n the
Troubadour Theatre on the cor-
ner of Henry and Main Streets
in Lexington. It runs through
March 26 with curtain at 8 p.m.
each evening.

Tickets are $3. Reservations
are required and can be made
by telephoning the box office at
463-9111, Ext. 371, or 463-9395
from 10a.m. to 4 p.m. weekdays
beginning March 9. (Members
of the W&L community are ad-
mitted without charge).

The play is set in an all-male
prep school in New England and
centers on the relationship one
of the students, Tom. (played by
W&L junior Larry Butler), has
with his fellow students and
with the housemaster (played

. by> W&L junior Christopher

Cartmill) and his wife (played
by W&L library assistant
Priscilla Lewis).

“T chose to do ‘Tea and Sym-
pathy’ for several reasons,”
noted Langdon, who teaches

acting at Washington and Lee.
“For one thing, it is a realistic
drama. Many of the plays that
we have done in the past two
years have been ‘presenta-
tional.’ In contrast, this play is
performed in a boxed set with
an imaginary wall between the
actors and the audience.

‘The students are continually
interested in doing plays from
this genre.”’

Too, the characters in the
play are more nearly the ages
of the W&L students who will
portray them.

“In recent productions many
of the students were playing
roles that were a lot older than
they will ever be cast in once
they leave here, For some of the
actors, the style of this play
—that is, the realism — has
been more difficult than some
of the character acting that
they have done in the past.”

The University Theatre pro-
duction of ‘‘Tea and Sympathy”
will be set in the year 1954.

“One of the earliest tasks we

(continued on page 5)

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1983, Page 5

 

 

 

Domino’s Pizza is located on the corner of Jefferson and elson Streets.

New Pizza in town

Domino’s delivers

Domino’s Pizza, the newest
food game in town, caters to the
lethargic .feet and ravenous
mouths of college students.

Promising ‘‘fast, free
delivery,’ the Lexington
Domino’s franchise opened on
February 5, under the direction
of manager John Forster. The
“out-pizza” operation is one of
about 800 branches serving 49
states.

“Business is going very
well,” said assistant Manager
Dan Hix, ‘‘maybe a little better
than we had expected.’’ Domi-
no’s serves well over 100 pizzas
on an average weeknight, said
Hix,

‘“‘Some people say this place

_ looks like a refrigerator,” Hix
noted; referring to the gleam-
ing, stark white interior of
Domino’s Pizza; but the cor-

porate hygiene policy is no less
stringent than the ‘‘hot in 30

minutes” guarantee.

Domino’s prepares 12-inch
and 16-inch pizzas, and offers 11
different toppings. The basic
medium-size cheese pizza costs
$4.40, and the 16-inch pie sells
for $6.45. Each topping for a
large pizza costs $1.30, and ex-
tra ingredients for the 12-inch
discs cost 90 cents.

The “Domino Deluxe’’ in-
cludes pepperoni, mushrooms,
onions, green peppers and
sausage. The ‘‘Deluxe’’ is pric-
ed at $8.05 for a medium, and
$11.70 for the larger pizza. The
“Price Destroyer’’ is laden with
nine toppings, and is yours to
eat for $9.40 (medium) or $13.60
(large). Sixteen-ounce cups of
Pepsi are available for 25 cents
apiece.

None of the Domino’s ingre-
dients are frozen. Their fresh

 

dough, sauce and toppings are
delivered twice weekly from the
district commissary in Raleigh,
N.C. Pizzas are cooked in elec-
tric ovens by infa-red, radiant
heat.

The product is then delivered
by car to addresses within a
two-mile radius of the ovens at
25 S. Jefferson St. Delivery cars
are equipped with sterno heat-
ing units, and the pizzas are
quaranteed to be hot in the
customer’s hand within 30
minutes of the telephone order
(463-7375. Drivers work for a
commission and tips, and may
accept cash or checks.

Domino’s opens at 11 a.m.
daily, and closes at 1 a.m., ex-
cept on Fridays and Saturdays,
when the lines are kept open un-
til2a.m.

 

EC

(continued from page 1)

Senior representative John
Viahoplus argued that helping
decorate the gym was not in his
‘job description,” and Ted Mc-
Quiston, Darby Brower and
Dave Jonson all said they were
not informed that help was
needed.

Nevertheless, Howard prais-
ed several SAB members, par-
ticularly Burford Smith, for
their work in preparing for the
ball. However, he said he felt
the committee was too large,
and some members either were
not able to help or just chose not
to help. As a result, six SAB
members did not receive free
tickets.

 

Marty Bechtold, public rela-
tions director for the 1984 Mock
Democratic Convention, asked
the EC to ensure that no one
other than the Mock Convention
sold Convention memorabilia in
the dining hall, Supply store,
student center and the Warner
Center.

The motion to do so passed
82, with both senior reps,
Valhoplus and Pete Baumgaert-
ner, voting against.

Reporting also for the Univer-
sity Athletic Committee, Bech-
told said that in a meeting,
University president John
Wilson had emphasized ‘‘how
much he liked the W&L philoso-

phy and that he wanted to stick
with it.”’ Bechtold also said the
committee was looking into the
possibility of having some out-
door basketball courts con-
structed although ‘the way the
school puts athletics on the
back-burner, I don’t think that’s
going to occur,’’ he said.

Lee Feldman complained of a
shortage of meeting rooms and
storage space in the student
center for clubs and _ other
organizations. Because of the
Mock Convention, both the
Calyx and Superdance have
been quartered in inadequate
offices. Griffith was named to a
one-man committee to look into
the problem.

  

Review:

Justice in ‘Verdict’

By ALLEN ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

He reached for the double-
shot glass, and it wobbled slow-
ly from the table’s surface. His
hands were only steady enough
to circle the Boston Globe
obituaries; not firmed to the
task of bringing a filled glass to
his lips. He set it down and cran-
ed his neck to slurp the top
ounce of scotch. Then he quick-
ly threw back the remaining
booze. :

This is Frank Galvin, a
liquor-sodden lawyer driven
from a comfortable law prac-
tice and marriage by devious
partners. This is one of many
taut scenes in the Verdict, one
of many stark moments when
Paul Newman infects the au-
dience with Galvin’s classic en-
trapment anxieties.

Newman plays an ‘“ambu-
lance-chaser”’ who is handed a
malpractice case against two
prominent doctors. At a
hospital run by the potent Ar-
chdiocese of Boston, the doctors
gave a pregnant woman the
wrong anesthetic before her
child was to be delivered. She
regurgitated in her air mask,
and while drowning in her own
vomit, fell into a vegetative
coma.

The Archdiocese, the doctors
and the couple who have cared
for the comatose young woman
for four years ... all want to
reach a settlement out of court.
Galvin needs his ‘standard 33
percent cut of the settlement.
But more than this, he finds, he
needs purpose, or perhaps faith.

The Verdict portrays one
man’s decision whether to
recover his trust in the common
man or to take the easy money
and drink his way back into
numbness. Galvin is a man who
has met ‘the enemy — the
judiciary system and the men it
regulates. He has met them and
joined the lowest of their ranks.
Should he try the case? He will
surely lose. Should he sur-
render?

The odds are stacked against
Galvin in almost comic dispro-
portion. At one point, an elusive
witness tells Galvin, ‘‘You’re all
the same... you’re all whores.”’
She then slams the door in the
lawyer’s face.

This and other incidents are
more than obstacles to Galvin’s
development of the case. These

are shufflings of the curtains
that he slowly opens, painfully,
to find at the movie’s climax... a

-mirror. The case provides a

reflection of Galvin’s
deteriorated motives, which
develops as a Polaroid photo-
graph before his eyes.

For all of Newman’s screen
sensibility, for all the delicate
emotions he evokes with his
eyes, his hands; Sidney
Lumet’s direction saturates the
poignant scenes with despairing
shadows. Lumet’s intentions
sometimes do come off in ex-
quisite editing cuts or under
masterful lighting. But finally
his efforts drown the viewer in
shades of grey. There is too
much darkness, too many si-
lent, skewed shots of Galvin’s
inner struggle.

This well-meaning overkill
does not, however, doom the
film.

Galvin’s development is com-
plimented by his terse,
enigmatic lover, played by
Charlotte Rampling. She is at
once devious and vulnerable,
cool and unsure.

Jack Warden gives an earnest
and palpable performance as
Galvin’s mentor, who has lost
his patience with an able but ir-
responsible peer.

Galvin’s friend describes the
lawyer for the defense as ‘‘the
f---ing Prince of Darkness.’’ In-
deed, this character, played by
James Mason, is stolid and
merciless in his lavish office.
Surrounded by innumerable
conniving cronies, Mason’s
visage is only broken once, and
then he shows it shatteringly.

Lindsay Crouse and Milo
O’Shea are convincing as a
working-class Irish couple vic-
timized by professional _ir-
responsibility. Their helpless-
ness is real for the audience.

The Verdict, like so many
great movie ideas, did not
materialize in a slick produc-
tion. It is distinguished,
however, by the problems it ad-
dresses, and Lumet’s influence
is enhanced by magnetic per-
formances.

The film is special because it
is not mute. It says something
to the listener. The message
comes from a new angle — the
view of man as a cell in the vast,
complex organism our society
calls Justice.

 

Sympathy

(continued from page 4)
have had is finding a realistic
foundation,’’ notes Langdon.
“For that, the actors have done
a good deal of research into the
1950s. They must know, for in-
stance, the character of the
country then. They must know
about the government, about
the social climate. They need to
feel completely acclimated to
that earlier time. It is all part of
the educational process, and
they have enjoyed it.”’

The action in ‘“‘Tea and Sym-
pathy”’ takes place in the house
where eight of the prep school
students live with the house-
master and his wife.

The set for the show was
designed by W&L senior Skip
Epperson and is done in several
tiers to indicate the various
rooms in the boarding house.

Along with the set, Langdon
hopes that the cast will create
the desired effect of constant
activity within the house.
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1983

Lacrosse

sports

W&L escapes 12-10; face Midshipmen Saturday

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
lacrosse team survived a four-
goal surge late in the fourth
quarter by the Chesapeake Club
to win Sunday’s exhibition on
Wilson Field, 12-10.

Jeff Mason’s second goal of
the game gave W&L its biggest
lead, 11-6, with 12:47 left.
Chesapeake then reeled off four
unanswered scores to draw
within 11-10 at 2:59. W&L
graduates Geoff Brent and
George Santos contributed
goals in the Chesapeake rally.

Chesapeake, which had lost
10-7 to highly regarded Virgin-
ia the previous afternoon,
had a chance to tie when they
called a time-out in the
Generals’ end with 51 seconds to
go. W&L middie Chris John
snuffed out the club’s hopes,
however, by picking up a loose
ball along the far sideline and
sprinting almost the length of
the field for the clincher at :17.
For John, who has been a leader
of the defensive midfielder
group, it was his first goal of the
year.

Sandy Brown paced a W&L
attack that operated without
senior Geoff Wood, who had
notched four goals against
Duke. Two of Brown’s three
tallies came in the opening
minutes of both halves. Joe
Seifert (2 goals, 3 assists) and
Lee Heimert (2 goals, 2 assists)
also helped send Chesapeake to
its second loss in three outings.

Comparing the Generals’ ef-
fort against Chesapeake to the

Track & Field

Generals have ‘potential’ to go

By RON GACHE
Special to the Phi

The W&L track team opens
its oudoor season this weekend
against Davidson College. After
a fifth-place showing in the
ODAC Indoor Championships,
Coach Norris Aldridge is hope-
ful that the team will be a
strong contender for the out-
door Championship in Lynch-
burg on April 30. Aldridge feels
the strongest aspect of this
team is the middle and long

PAVIA AAAVBVAAAVVAVVAAVMVBVBVVB MVM

THE SOS BAND

 

 

CPSRRABRASAABRABBBBABDBDD DBD DB.

£LAAANAANANA WAN NNW WWNS

 

is coming to

4 Washington and Lee University
y with special guests...

; The Mighty Majors

y

; March 19, 1983

Evans Dining Hall
9:00 p.m. - 2:00 a.m.

Tickets $8.50 per person—Advance tickets only
For more information call 463-9111 ext. 240 or 463-2295.

SEMIN IMIS

The Pearl Anniversary $.A.B.U. Ball

SL LD

SISA AOA BOI Ho

   
      
   
 

opening-game victory against
Duke, coach Jack Emmer said,
“We looked a little better offen-
sively, but we’re still not clear-
ing the ball (out-of the defensive
end) as well as we can. We’ve
got to improve on holding on to
the ball. We’re getting there,
though.”

When the Generals take on
Navy in Annapolis Saturday
afternoon; there will be several
people absent from both side-

distance runners; he also points
out that the team has some
quality jumpers. Davidson, who
also has strong middle distance
runners, lost to W&L last year
in the finaly relay event.

This year’s team has mem-
bers from all four classes.
Senior tri-captain Alan Ar-
mitage will be a strong competi-
tor in the hurdle events. Class-
mate Eric Nelson is another tri-
captain who throws the discus
and the javelin. Senior Gene
Fellon should likewise be an im-
portant contributor this year.
He holds the school record in
the pole vault at 14 feet. Promis-

Golf

Linksters

By LEE NICHOLS
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee golf
team will open the 1983 spring
season this Friday afternoon
against the Univeristy of Roch-
ester. Tee time is 1 p.m. at Lex-
ington Golf and Country Club.

In his eighth year at the
Generals’ helm, head coach
E.G. “‘Buck”’ Leslie is search-
ing for a third straight unde-

    
 

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

lines.

Dick Szlasa, who directed the
Midshipmen to post-season play
in each of his 10 years at Navy,
has moved on to become athle-
tic director at Drew College
(N.J.).

“‘With him gone, Navy is kind
of a mystery to us,” said Em-
mer. ‘‘They are always a good
bunch of athletes. We can ex-
pect that.”” Chesapeake defeat-
ed Navy 8-7 two Saturdays ago.

ing juniors include Charlie
Alcorn, who finished second in
the indoor shot-put this year
and Angus McBryde, the third
of the tri-captains, who won the
1500 meter title at last spring’s
ODAC meet. Strong sopho-
mores include Frank Pittman,
another middle distance runner
and hurdler Scott Henderson.
There are many freshmen on
this year’s squad; Billy
Rhinehart is a long jumper and
triple jumper, and Towns
Pressler is a high jumper who
Aldridge says has a _ good
chance to win that event this
spring at the conference meet.

While Wood has recovered
from an injury that left his arm
numb for several days and
should play against Navy,
Heimert (hip pointer) and Rod
Santomassimo (thigh bruise)
are expected to sit out the con-
test. Santomassimo passed out
three assists against Chesa-

peake.

distance

Other promising freshmen in-
clude Ron Moody and John
Lewis, both strong middle
distance runners.
The team looks stong overall;
however, several injuries to
some key runners have coach
Aldridge concerned about the
outcome of this weekend’s
meet. Both junior Angus
McBryde and Coach Aldridge
feel inexperience is the only
shortcoming of this team. ‘‘The
potential is there...we just have
to put it all together,” states
Aldridge. The Davidson meet
will be held at Wilson Field this
Saturday at 11a.m.

open season Friday

feated season; the Generals
have compiled a perfect 18-0
regular season record over the
past two seasons. But wih only 3
returning lettermen on_ this
year’s squad, the team must
prove itself against tough com-
petition. ‘This is the most inex-
perienced team that we've
fielded since I’ve been head
coach, as we lost four senior let-
termen to graduation last

SLSISSSISASSAASSSS ASA SSSA

 

BUSCH
6-Pack

$2.29

(SILLA AA ad

AST LEX

III LIIIIIILI IL SLI SSIS SSS LS LS

BUD

12-Pack

$4.95 ©

IMPLI ALILAD A

Buea

year,’’ comments Leslie.

Juniors Whit Kelly and Bruce
Blythe will captain this year’s
team. Other hopefuls for start-
ing berths include seniors Tim
Webb and Frank English, soph-
omore David Sizemore, and
freshmen Turner Friedman,
Sam Svalina, and P.J. lerardi.
A total of 18 golfers began in-
door practice the last day of
January, and the team has
practiced since then at Lex-
ington Golf and Country Club,
weather permitting.

Last year W&L beat Roches-
ter in Lexington, but Leslie
points out that this year Roches-
ter should prove to be a for-
midable opponent. ‘‘Last year,
we played exceptionally well,
but they are returning nearly
all of their starters.” Roanoke
and Lynchburg, who edged out
the Generals in last year’s
ODAC tournament, should once
again field strong teams this
year. The Generals will get
their first look at these squads
at the ODAC Championships,
which will be hosted by W&L on
April 25-26.

Summing up the coming
season, Leslie states, ‘‘I’m look-
ing forward to working with the
newcomers to the team, but I
don’t know what to expect. A
lack of experience is our biggest
problem, but I think we’ll come
along if we work hard.”’
The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1983, Page 7

 

 

Emmer reviews career Time Out....

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

Intercollegiate lacrosse at
Washington and Lee has not
always enjoyed the success and
popularity that it has in recent
years. During its first 25 years,
ending in 1973, the program pro-
duced only seven winning
seasons in rape a record of
108-140.

Since 1973, sitet the
Generals have been perhaps the
most successful team among
small Division I universities

BS fw

 

 

Y
2np Ko

m eh,
a8: iw: b ‘al
we > ee we a eo: 5

ya Oaepmbin he - ALE "Sf

nowledged as one of the sport’s
best strategists and motivators.
In addition, he has been able to
maintain the success ata NCAA
Division I rarity: a university
that does not offer athletic
scholarships.

Emmer, a_ 37-year-old
graduate of Rutgers, does not
like to dwell on the difficulty in
recruiting created by not being
able to give even the very best
high school players a purely
athletic scholarship. ‘We’ve
always been able to operate
without scholarships,’’ he

aes de
me i com ,

Ais i: }
rg

4 PF
eo

en ac fF

f*.* * c

 

 

 

HEAD LACROSSE COACH JACK EMMER

 

and have competed on a near-
equal basis with the bigger
schools. In fact, W&L’s record
has been 103-40 over the last ten
years and has qualified for the
NCAA tournament seven times.

With the program’s less than
prosperous beginnings, there
should be an explanation for the
successful turnaround. One
need not look further than the
man who has overseen the pro-
gram since 1973, coach Jack
Emmer.

While Emmer feels that the
lifestyle of Lexington and the
strength of the academic pro-
gram at W&L make his job an
ideal situation, it is the school
that should consider itself for-
tunate to have someone ack-

CINEMA |
STARTS FRIDAY “o%

Fri, & Sat. 7:15 & 9:00

 

261-2900

Another World, Another Time...

“More spectacular than ‘Star Wars’!”’

“Wonderful! It is a feast for the
eye, the sort of film with so much
going on in each frame you want
to see it again immediately.”

‘shows BuboTouse, 1116 Ponty

Mat. Sat. & Sun, & Mon. Eve,
all seats $1.50

   

remarked. ‘‘We want to sell a
top-flight academic program
with a very personal basis, one
that allows good contact with
the professors.

Emmer points to the support
of the student body as a big fac-
tor in the team’s success. In-
deed, over the years the
lacrosse program has become
the students’ favorite, a rite of
spring.

Emmer also cites the pro-
gram’s ‘“‘tradition of success
and the personal campus at-
mosphere” in explaining the
continued success.

“Success has bred more suc-
cess,’’ he said.

He acknowledges -that it has
become tougher and tougher to
convince a prized recruit to

 

Buena Vista

 
     
 

In the Age of Wonder.

  
   
   
 

Time magazine

 
   
     
  
     

Philadelphia Enquirer

Dai
RUSTE

   

   

(PG)
Coming next week - 48 HRS_ In 2 weeks - Man From Snowy River

 

come to a school where he
might get some financial
assistance, if he’s really smart
or his family is ‘really poor,
while the competition can give
him a full scholarship. In recent
years more and more rivals
have gone to the maximum
number of athletic grants allow-
ed for NCAA Division I lacrosse
(14).

At the same time, W&L has
had to eliminate some of its
financial aid due to the federal
cutback in funds.

But, said Emmer, as long as
the program can perpetuate
itself at its accustomed rate, it
will stay in Division I.

“We were 9-4 last year,’” he
said. ‘“‘Two of those losses were
to UNC and UVa and nobody’s
been able to keep up with them
except Johns Hopkins. Our
other two losses were by one
goal. That’s being very com-
petitive.’’

There is one thing Emmer
said he would like to see altered
at W&L, a change he said would
help the program without
changing the school’s admis-
sion policy.

Said Emmer, ‘‘The school has
drawn a very distinct line, by
which those (members of an in-
coming freshman class) in the
lowest academic quarter of the
incoming class rarely get con-
sidered for financial aid. If we
considered the potential of the
lowest quarter to make more of
a contribution to the university
than some of the brighter
students, I think we could be
able to get some of the players
we haven’t in the past. We could
do that and it-wouldn’t lower
our admission standards.”’

Ws THEATRES

Sat.-Sun. Mat. 2 & Mon. Eve.
All Seats $1.50

STATE THEATRE
UB aincron vA 463-3424

HELDOVER

Eves. 7&9:15
Paul Newman

The Verdict (pr)

His Last Chance

lie LTE

HELDOVER

Eves. 7&9 Nominated for 10
Academy Awards .

THIS IS A HELL OF A WAY

 

 
   

  

    

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

.. slowly but surely, we’ve
finally approached NCAA tour-
nament time and the question of
who will get and who deserves
bids from the committee makes
its annual appearance. With the
tournament expanded — once
again — to now include 52
teams, the question is: who’s
not going to get a bid? Let’s face

it: either they make the tourna-
ment smaller and more selec-
tive (say, back to the original
32), or they send a bid to every
Division I team (which has been

‘proposed by the coaches’ asso-

ciation). When it comes right
down to it, are there really 52 or
32 teams that deserve a chance
for the national championship?

Given the nature of athletic con-

tests where on any given day -

any team can beat another
team, the idea of a 32-or 52-team
tournament is as fair as a 274-
team tournament. I don’t think
you can get a true national
champion that way. There are
maybe eight teams that are of
national championship calibre.

It may be difficult to narrow
yourself to eight selections but
if you can do this the resulting
winner will be the true national
champion.... But I guess there’d
be no hype, then, no mega-
bucks for the NCAA. Poor guys.
Send your dollars to CARE,
c/oNCAA Tournament Commit-
tee, Shawnee Mission, Kansas.
Thank you...

* * *

...Well, back to the collonade
and Wilson Field. There’s some-
thing about the lacrosse team

SR CTT
WE xINTOR VA 463-3424

Did you miss because of Fancy Dress?

this year that has to make
Coach Jack Emmer feel good,
at least if the first two contests
can be taken as an indication of
the team’s character. In both
instances, the Generals ex-
hibited the ability to know how
to win. W&L was able to bend,
but instead of breaking, they
had the composure to regain
command. It’s a_ promising
start...

* * *

...Looks like Herschel Walker
made the right decision after
all. Impressive stats for Mr.
Walker in Game One of his pro-
fessional career: 16 carries for
a staggering 60 yards. Take the
money and run, right Herschel?
Oh well, the dollar is rather in-
flated anyway...

* * *

... The United States’ failure
in its Davis Cup tie last week-
end against Argentina can be
attributed to one man — who
didn’t even set foot on the red
clay of Buenos Aires. The man
is Jimmy Connors. Connors,
No. 1 in the world for 1982 and
an established clay court
player, continued his strange
refusal to play Davis Cup ten-
nis, a decision which has hurt
U.S. chances in the past and this
time killed them. It’s a shame
the new Jimmy Connors is still
the same old immature brat
when it comes to situations like
these...

One closing note. If Oklaho-
ma’s freshman phenom
Wayman Tisdale stays in col-
lege all four years, he will end
up making Pete Maravich and
Ralph Sampson look like high
school flashes. Watch him...

  
 

Fri.-Sat. at 12:00
, Midnight Show
PVT eM!)

 
   
      
   
   
  

 

Held Over By Popular Demand

 

“Let's Spend the
Night Together”

featuring The Rolling Stones
Parts filmed in Hampton, Va. during 1981 tour.

 

 
Bea

FRIDAY MARCH 11 COME AND SHAKE IT WITH

LiQvID PLEASURE ~
Ta ye, DUE er

 

 

ACC BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT

 

 

SATURDAY MARCH 12 si exiINGTON’S OWN FUNK & SOUL

CHaArioWda

SUNDAY MARCH 13

ACC CHAVWPIONS HID —
1PM O A\\A) ie BIG SCREEN 25° DRAFT

WEDNESDAY MARCH 16

 

 

ALWAYS A FAVORITE

Te WbNABens - “

   
 
   
       
   
   
   

THE FIRST BOAT SHOE

DESIGNED TO PERFORM
AS WELL ON LAND
AS IT — AT SEA

 

(Mon. $4 Drinks —_
- ATTITUDE RE- 711

ADJUSTMENT HOUR

 

 

\PCOCCCOHOTSSOCESOSOOE SO SHCOSOOEODEEOSOSEOOESCOSOOCEES

co THURS. o

House Steak w/ Salad
\ & Kurls $6.99 J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rere
 

VOLUME 82

Rin

NUMBER 22

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia March 17, 1983

  

g-

MAR 2

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Tonight in Warner Center

Ehrlichman, McCarthy in debate

A four-member panel com-
posed of a Washington and Lee
student, a W&L law professor,
the president of Southern
Seminary, and the executive
editor of the Roanoke Times &
World-News will participate in

the debate on First Amendment
rights between John
Ehrlichman and Eugene Mc-
Carthy on Thursday (March 17)
at Washington and Lee.
Ehrlichman, a key aide to
former President Richard Nix-

 

JOHN EHRLICHMAN

on, and McCarthy, former
Senator from Minnesota, will

The depate is being held at
W&L under the auspices of Con-
tact ’83, a speaker symposium
sponsored jointly by the inter-
fraternity council and the stu-
dent body at W&L. —

hold their debate at 8 p.m. inthe
Warner Center. The program is
officially titled ‘“The People’s
Right to Know: What Are the
Limits of First Amendment
Rights?”

According to Washington and
Lee senior Mike Drinkwater, a
co-chairman of the Contact ’83
committee, McCarthy and
Ehrlichman will begin the pro-
gram by making their initial
presentations on the subject
and following with their respec-
tive rebuttals.

Hampden H. Smith III,
associate professor of jour-
nalism at Washington and Lee,
will be the moderator for the
debate.

Following the rebuttals, the
two men will be questioned by
the panel of W&L senior jour-
nalism major Henry Lang-
horne, W&L law professor

Lewis H. LaRue, Southern
Seminary Junior College Presi-
dent Joyce Davis, and Roanoke
Times & World-News Executive
Editor Forrest M. Landon.

This is the fourth debate bet-
ween Ehrlichman and McCar-
thy since September. The two
men addressed the topic of

First Amendment rights during
a debate at Triton College in

EC receives 49 petitions

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee
room was packed with students
Monday night, nearly all of
them running for a class office.

In all, 49 students turned in
petitions, and in the case of the
senior law representative, the
petition deadline was shifted to
Wednesday the 16. This exten-
sion was granted because the
law school has been on vaca-
tion.

Junior representative Scott
Mason and senior represen-
tative Pete Baumgaertner
reported on their research into
the open exam policy and the
question of how late students

should be able to change their
exam times.

Mason reported that of the
seven professors he spoke with,
six were in favor of an open ex-
am policy.

Pete Baumgaertner reported,
though, that the Commerce
School faculty was opposed to
the idea because of logistical
problems stemming from the
high number of students enroll-
ed in business courses. Mason
called the Commerce school
arguments’ ‘‘superficial.’’
Baumgaertner and Mason will
check alternatives for exam
distribution which may work in
the commerce school.

Mike Skardon and Mike
Drinkwater from the Contact

committee reported that they

had received a bill for $2,000 for

the Carole Simpson. speech
which was to have been paid on
Tuesday, the 15.

The student Association for
Black Unity is sponsoring Simp-
son, and wants Contact to pay
for her visit. The Contact/SABU
relationship was set up by the
EC during budget hearings to
keep organizations from asking
for funds to have speakers. The
original agreement was that
SABU and Contact were to
decide on a speaker who appeal-
ed to both organizations. The
plan provided for cost sharing
between the two. organi-
zations. SABU apparently

(continued on page 3)

 

 

ET LT a eS:
EUGENE McCARTHY

Chicago last fall.

Ehrlichman’ served = as
counsel to the president and
later as assistant to the presi-
dent for domestic affairs. He
resigned at the height of the
Watergate scandal in April 1973

and was indicted and convicted
for his role in the break-in and
cover-up.

McCarthy was Senator from
Minnesota for two terms and
made unsuccessful bids for the
presidency in 1972 and 1976.

 

 

Inside the Phi

University Policy on
Drugs.....page 2

Styx takes a chance

page 7

Swimmers make
Nationals.....page 11

 

 
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983

 

University policy
statement on drugs

(Editor’s Note: In the wake of
the recent drug-related charges
against Washington and Lee
students, Dean Lewis John sug-
gested the Phi publish the
Universtiy’s policy on drugs.)

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity wants to help the individual
achieve a realistic understand-
ing of the consequences of drug
use and the ability to make in-
formed, responsible decisions.
The university’s prime respon-
sibilities concerning drugs are
education and counseling. Con-
sistent with these respon-
sibilities, the university wishes
to create an environment in
which students may discuss
drug problems openly and
without fear of reprisal. The
university, to foster this en-
vironment, will sponsor regular
seminars on drugs and drug use
as well as offer counseling
assistance at all times. In addi-
tion the University Library and
the University Center will
maintain special collections of
literature on drugs.

Students sincerely interested
in resolving personal drug pro-
blems may seek guidance from
uniyersity physicians, the Dean

Letter

 

of Students, and his staff; in
seeking such aid, students may
rest assured they do not risk
disciplinary action. Although
conversations with these per-
sons do not enjoy immunity
from court inquiry, they are
under no obligation to initiate
reporting of drug offenses and
would do so only in clearly
dangerous and extraordinary
situations.

Although the enforcement of

~ Jaw is not within the educational

function of the university, no
one should delude himself that
the campus is a sanctuary from
law-enforcement agents. Socie-
ty regulates by law the use of

‘drugs; it forbids even the

possession of certain drugs.
Law-enforcement agents have
jurisdiction on campus and,
when _— possessing proper
documents, may legally make
arrests or search any room or
building without prior notice to
university officials. Moreover,
the university cannot intervene
to protect an accused person
from the consequences of his ar-
rest or conviction. Whether he
is on or off campus, a student is
subject to the law.

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity does not wish to set student

“a

,

BY: a .

a

a
ss
ioe

he)
ay 42

Vs p :
Pay ae

SSF

iad -!

ra
‘ a
Ke

CA
Ag

_&

xd

a
a

CODES UN GEL es Syuote

"A FLOWER! & SYMBOLIC DANCE TO SPRING! A LIKENING OF ECONOM)
ENING FROMTHE DARK WINTER, THE TRIUMPH OF SUPPLY-SIDE VERIIES

against student, or faculty
against student, to ferret out of-
fenders; to do so would under-
mine the educational enter-
prise. Nevertheless, the univer-
sity cannot ignore violations
which come to its attention;
that would deny society its
legitimate claim that we abide
by the law and would invite
others to undertake the enforce-
ment we, ourselves, would not
provide. Allegations of drug
misuse will be considered by

Is drug article essential?

Dear Editor,

The implications of the article
entitled ‘Sophomore charged
with the possession of cocaine’
published in the March 10 issue
of the Ring-tum Phi lend
themselves to comment. The
responsibility to report school
news lies with this publication.
A similar article had already
been included in the Rockbridge

area newspaper, where it
belonged. Many are of the opi-
nion that you have overstepped
your boundaries by including a
front-page article that involves
only a small number of students
at W&L, or should I say one?
Because it does not pertain to
our entire educational com-
munity, it is questionable as to

 

on Wednesday, March 30.

Passover Seder

The University Programs of
United Jewish Appeal at W&L
will sponsor a Passover Seder

Rabbi Douglas Weber from
Harrisonburg will lead — the
Seder, which is open to all
members of the Lexington com-
munity. The Seder will begin at
6:45 p.m. in the side dining-
room at Evans Dining Hall on
Washington Street. Charges for
the meal are $10 for adults and
five dollars for children and
those students who participate
in the W&L meal plan.

For further information, con-
tact Program chairman Morris
Lewis at 463-5161.

 

 

Mock Con State
Chair Apps due

Applications for state
chairmen positions for the 1984
Mock Democratic Convention
are due in Carole Chappell’s of-
fice by tomorrow.

State chairmen are responsi-
ble for organizing a delegation,
raising funds, conducting

political research and building
a float for the Mock Convention
parade.

Interviews will be held Mon-
day, March 21, through Thurs-
day, March 24. A sign-up sheet
is in Carole Chappell’s office.

o- =. s 2

 

 

whether or not it should have
been published. In doing so, you
have not only informed us, but
harmed us. There are some of
us who do not need or wish to
know about your topic of discus-
sion and there are many who do
not appreciate the implied
label.

President Wilson, in his Con-
vocation speech, called our stu-
dent body a _ cumulative
“genius.” The stated informa-
tion detracts from our ‘‘genius”’
by self-imposing the idea of
rampant drug abuse among
students. Rampant drug abuse
is not the case.

Consider the effect of your ar-
ticle on the Rockbridge area,
prospective and _ present
students, alumni, faculty, and
parents. Also, consider the in-
justice done to the subject of the
article.

I would like to note that there
have been and will continue to
be occurences involving W&L
students that have not, will not,
and need not be mentioned in
the Ring-tum Phi. It appears
time to examine what is and is
not essential. We all want a
school publication we can be
proud of.

Sincerely,
Katherine Settle
Class of ’84

A | i - ft
ies

 

 

the Student Control Committee.

As in other matters of student
conduct, the Student Control
Committee’s jurisdiction and
concern extend over the
Washington and Lee student
whether he is on this campus, in
the local community, or visiting
other colleges and universities.
In arriving at its decisions, the
Student Control Committee will
examine the particular cir-
cumstances of each case and

consider the interests of the in-

ENCE TO FLOWERS AWAK-
PROBABLY A TRICK!’

dividual and the university. One
principle, however, does seem
clear; an individual who uses
drugs is responsible for his ac-
tions; an individual who makes
illegal drugs available to others
is responsible not only for his
own actions, but for the actions
and welfare of others as well.
Accordingly, the severity of the
penalty may depend upon the
degree to which an individual’s
action affects the interests of
others.

Hall receives Howe award

Scott W. Hall, a Washington
and Lee University senior from
Danville, Va., is the universi-
ty’s 1983 recipient of the James
Lewis Howe Award.

The Howe Award is presented
by the Blue Ridge Chapter of
the American Chemical Society
to the senior chemistry major
who has excelled in academics

during his college career.

A graduate of George Wash-
ingington High School in Dan-
ville, Hall is a member of Phi
Eta Sigma freshman honor

. society and Alpha Epsilon Delta

premedical fraternity. He was
the winner of the Phi Beta Kap-
pa Sophomore Award for
1980-81.

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

Editor-in-Chief. ...........ceceeeeseneees
Managing Editor.................eseeeee
Business Manager..............seeee00s

WO TAIN i ii 6 ia ovina en take es begee
Sports BAN ia cies vicneeaoeenleres
Assistant Sports Editor ................5.
Head Photographer ............. 0000000:
PROGOBTAPNETS. 6 ieee rede seereees

Entertainment Editor...................

th ER en ATO CA ah Bill Roberts
Seis cole eae 0 ah oereRe ae Jim Laurie
Cove sape be tha eer lap i heLer Steve Perry
John Cleghorn, Allen Roberts, Rick Swagler
FIT oe eee ee Ae Lee Nichols

Ocbvech reg aa ¥e0 00h ees Dave Stevens
Geer vee eS Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

Ba hrs codon cha eelecaers David W. Johnston

ROP OPIINS oy cc seeiccdys CrVer cues n Tess s revegesres4 Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell
John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter,

Rob Schlegal, B. Scott Tilley

Advertining MamOGe?. oi oss cons ceeheccceaee ro tpeacegeensselerents ves Tom O’Brien
AB GOIBIAD coca ce cc duc paneer es ccecesterteney Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
Circulation MaQKGOl oasis ji vice cases chad ee Tiwhas bree VEL ees Jim Wood
Chveeh ities QamtRiia ei 6 ee hE ides wes Vetase HE ees Greg Aydt, Todd Barstow

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983, Page 3

 

 

SABU Ball Saturday night features SOS Band

By GREG COY
Special to the Phi

As memories of Fancy Dress
’83 become distant, Washington
and Lee University prepares
itself for another very special
and entertaining weekend. The
Student Association for Black
Unity will celebrate its 12th an-
niversary ball this Saturday,
March 19. The semi-formal ball
will be held in the Warner
Center. It will start at 8:30 p.m.
and last until 2:00 a.m.

The S.A.B.U. is very op-
timistic about the social event.
“We are anticipating a very
successful ball,’’ replied Robert
Stephen, president of S.A.B.U.
Co-chairman Ira Puryear said,
‘I think this will be the best ball
in the history of the organiza-
tion.”’ ;

Puryear has good reason to

be so positive. Performing at
the Pearl Anniversary Ball will
be recording artists The SOS
Band. This will be the bands
first appearance since their
new album SOS III was releas-
ed. Dean of Minority Affairs,
John White, said the band is
currently on tour and perform-
ing some of the material to be
used in their next album, SOS
IV. The band has just recently
had a single from their current
album go gold. White said the
band was very excited by their
accomplishments, and wants to
give an excellent performance
in Lexington to continue the
success of their album.

White was also not short on-
praise for the Mighty Majors
who will be the special guest of
the event. ‘‘We want to provide
the best quality entertainment.
The Majors are from North

Mollenhoff appears

When the ABC News program
‘20/20’ aired a report on U.S.
defense spending Thursday
night (March 10), a Washington
and Lee University journalism
professor and a W&L senior
journalism student were more
than casual viewers.

Clark Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer
Prize-winning reporter who is
currently a journalism pro-
fessor at W&L, and senior
Pryse Elam of Oklahoma City
both played major roles in the
production of the “20/20” seg-
ment entitled ‘You Paid For
=

At one point in the 20-minute
report, Mollenhoff appeared on
camera, interviewed by ABC’s
Geraldo Rivera about a ques-
tion of conflict of interest.

Elam’s role was strictly .

behind the scenes. He spent six
weeks helping conduct the in-
vestigation and worked for two
of those weeks as part of the
ABC production team that was
filming the segment. For his
work, Elam received credit as
an assistant producer.

“What it amounted to was
that I got a break that a 100,000
journalism students dream
about getting,’’ said Elam, who
first became involved in the in-
vestigation as part of an in-
dependent study course under
Mollenhoff.

Formerly a Washington cor-

VARNER |
& POLE

115 South Main Street

For your extra

} pieces of furniture.

r=
¢
H
!
)
‘
Mi
N

 

respondent for the Des Moines
Register, Mollenhoff began

writing a series of articles for
the Washington Times in
August 1982, detailing the
stories about defense spending
abuses told by an auditor nam-
ed George Spanton in the
Defense Contract Audit Agen-
cy.

As part of the independent
study project, Mollenhoff asked
Elam to examine various
government documents on the
Spanton case.

“One thing led to another and
the case just took off,” noted
Elam. ‘Originally, ABC had
planned to do a segment on the
topic to be shown some time in
May. But they decided to push it
up and run it four days before
the start of the defense budget
hearings.”’

In addition to digging into
records and reports to provide
background and documentation
on the investigation, Elam
spent a week during W&L’s
Washington Holiday working
with the ABC News team film-
ing portions of the ‘20/20’ seg-
ment in Oklahoma City.

“The experience has been in-
valuable,” Elam noted. ‘‘Here
it is the next-to-last term of my
senior year and I have been
pulling together all the things
that I’ve been learning during
my four years.

  

APARTMENT FOR NEXT YEAR

Above Lois’ Restaurant,
Across from Leggett on Main St.

Carolina and are one of the best
regional bands in the area.”’
The Mighty Majors
originated on the campus of
North Carolina A & T Universi-
ty in Greensboro in 1965 as the
result of a talent show. In less
than two years, the group went
on the road with Gene Chandler
and others. In addition they
have fronted numerous col-
iseum and auditorium concerts.
From 1968-1978, few regional
groups played a more rigorous
circuit, through Virginia, the
Carolinas, Georgia, Tennessee,
and Florida than the Mighty
Majors. The eight member
group has blended full in-
strumentation and vocals to of-
fer masterful renditions of all
types of material including top
40, Carolina beach, disco, and
rock. Their versatility, especial-
(continued on page 4)

on 20/20

‘“‘When I was working on the
story in Oklahoma City, for in-
stance, one of my assignments
was to find some file footage
from a local television station.
Because of the training I had in
one of my journalism classes I
was able to go through their
tape library and pull out the ap-
propriate pieces of the tapes.”

His experience with the ‘‘20/-
20” production has enabled
Elam to land an internship with
ABC News during the universi-
ty’s six-week spring term start-
ing in April.

EC

(continued from page 1)

misunderstood this agreement,
and thought they were to choose
a speaker and Contact would
foot the bill.

EC president Bennett Ross,
Mike Drinkwater of Contact,
and Bob Stephen of SABU met
Tuesday afternoon to discuss
the problem. According to Skar-
don, nothing was resolved and
he declined to comment further.
Drinkwater, Stephen, and Ross
could not be reached.

At the EC meeting, Ross said,
“It’s my opinion, unless it can
be shown otherwise, that Con-
tact has no responsibility to pay
this bill.”’

 

  

&

CALL: Edward E. Smith §
463-4583 after4p.m. 7%

WI HO HK

 

 

 

ae: \

 

WT EW EK

 

 

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

THE
DAD

March 22

 

 

 

 

“It's The Place To Be”

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983

“A no-nonsense, straightfor-
ward look at what a patron
should expect from a quality
restaurant” — Briefing — The
American Express’ Restau-
rateurs News Digest.

‘“‘A reservations to tip guide’’
— Commonwealth Magazine.

“Staring Down the Head-
waiter: A Practical Guide to
Dining Out” is the second of
Tom Shomo’s books designed to
instruct college students and
young professionals in the fine
art of gracious living. A 32-page
aggressiveness training course
for the restaurant patron, the
pamphlet puts the reader at
ease with reservations, course
selections, wine, tipping, and
the role of various staff.
Although written primarily
from the male point of view,
Anne Byrd, president of The In-
ternational Association of Cook-
ing Schools, called the book in-
valuable to the single woman.

Shomo and his co-author,
Hartley Schearer, combine 28
years of college and school
work with extensive travel
throughout Europe and the
United States sampling the best
of both restaurants and
vineyards. The authors studied
cooking in Paris under Camille
Cadier, an associate of Julia
Child. :

“Our book is for the young
man or woman about to enter
the professional world,” says
Shomo. ‘‘Sooner or later every
college student must make the
transition from McDonald’s or
the local pizza parlor to Chez
this or Maison that. If one can-
not make the transition grace-
fully, the results could be

 

 

 

 

 

STARE EON
HEADWAITER

A Practical Guide
To Dining Out

 

  

Ty

BY
THOMAS H. SHOMO

 

 

AND
N. HARTLEY SCHEARER, JR.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disastrous. However, just as
real as the professional and
social considerations, is the im-
portance of fully enjoying one of
life’s great pleasures. For a few
hours and at a relatively
modest cost you can be waited
on and pampered and have your
senses of sight, smell, and taste
delighted if you know what to

expect and what to demand.”’

“We have placed our book
almost exclusively in college
bookstores because that is our
public. The response has been
gratifying. One young woman
even said that our book helped
her increase her tips at a part-
time job as a waitress.”’

Fralin delivers paper

Dr. Alfred G. Fralin Jr.,
associate professor of romance
languages at Washington and
Lee, delivercd a paper to a sec-
tion on American literature at
the Twentieth Century
Literature Conference at the
University of Louisville in
February.

Fralin’s paper was a com-
parative study entitled
“Naturalistic Violence and
Purgation in Dickey’s
‘Deliverance’: Echoes of Zola’s
‘Germinal.’”’

The theme of the conference
was “Rage and Disorder.’’ The
conference attracted more than

400 participants from
throughout the United States
with novelist Michel Butor and
poet Marge Piercy serving as
keynote speakers.

Fralin has been a member of
the faculty at Washington and
Lee since 1975.

Law applications up

Applications for admission to
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty’s School of Law are up by
more than 10 percent this year
over the same time a year ago
and represent the highest total
since 1979.

According to figures compil- .

ed by Edward 0. Henneman,
assistant dean of the W&L law
school, the law school has
received 1,148 applications for
the 120 places that are available
in the first-year class next fall.

That compares with the 1,040
that had been received on the
same date a year ago.

Henneman said that he ex-
pects that the total number of
applications this year will reach
1,160.

The final number of applica-
tions a year ago was 1,057. In

iJAs

1,033 applications, 1,117 in 1980,
and 1,186 in 1979. The record
was 1,295 in 1978.

Henneman noted that the
number of applications coming
from college seniors has in-
creased slightly over a year
ago.

“We are still receiving a fair-
ly large number of applications
from those individuals who
have waited a year or two after
their graduation before begin-
ning their graduate studies,”.
Henneman said. ‘‘Too, we con-
tinue to get applications from a
number of individuals who are
changing their careers. This
year, for instance, we have got-
ten a number of applications
from college professors. Last
year I was seeing more applica-

$ Pe ayy anlere and stock
tions from bankers and stock

Henneman suggested the
state of the economy as a possi-
ble reason for the increase in
applicants coming directly
from college.

“The current job market
could well be involved in caus-
ing students to move directly
from undergraduate to grad-
uate school rather than trying
to compete for a job at this
point,”’ Henneman said.

In terms of objective stand-
ards as indicated by the scores
on standardized tests and col-
lege transcripts, Henneman in-
dicated that this year’s pool of
applications is ‘‘at least as good
as, if not better than, the ap-
plicants from a year ago.”

Washington and Lee’s law
school has an enrollment of 364

9.R2

rha 19

Student arrested

Christmas burglary

leads to second

cocaine arrest

By PHIL MURRAY
Phi Staff Writer

A break-in at a fraternity
house over Christmas vacation
led to an arrest Feb. 28 of a
sophomore at Washington and
University on a drug charge.

Kevin B. O’Connor, of
Baltimore, Md., was charged
with possession of cocaine after

lab results on a substance found
in his room returned positive,
Officer David Rhodenizer of the
Lexington Police Department
said last week.

Rhodenizer said he found a
very small amount of cocaine in
O’Connor’s room at the Delta
Tau Delta fraternity house on

Lee Avenue while he was in-
vestigating a possible burglary
there.

On Dec. 17, 1982, Rhodenizer
said he discovered that the Delt

house had been broken into and
he called W&L Proctor Charles
“Murph” Murray to check it

out. All of the students living in
the house had gone home.

He and Murray entered the
house to see if anything was
missing. Rhodenizer said he

noticed a ‘‘small brown suede
pouch” with a “cutting mirror”
attached and two small glass
vials containing a _ white
powdery residue laying on a
table in O’Connor’s room.

Rhodenizer confiscated the
vials and sent them to a police
lab for analysis. The substance
was identified as cocaine on
Feb. 22.

O’Connor was released on
bond from Rockbridge County
jail. He was scheduled to take a

polygraph test Monday, March
14, but the appointment was
cancelled.

 

SABU

(continued from page 3)

ly their beach melodies, are
superb because the Majors
have worked personally with
dozens of original recording ar-
tists including the Drifters,
Tams, Temptations, Showmen
and many others.

“By getting the Majors and
the SOS Band,’’ White said, ‘‘we
want to present a showcase
ball, a dance with a concert.’

“Obviously, this is a major
step forward for us with such a
caliber band as the SOS. We
consider it as a precedent for
us.”” White said the S.A.B.U.
Organization and Ball ‘was
founded 12 years ago by a group
of students who wanted to in-
troduce white students at that
time to a different cultural ex-
perience. We try to bring black
entertainment and groups that

have their origins in jazz,
gospel and blues. It has usually
been an event for minority
students to celebrate the end of
their Black Cultural Heritage
Week. The students did most of
the work for this weekend. They
are very excited to have an op-
portunity to produce such an
event and to see all the
previews as favorable.”

A spokesman for the
organization, Ron Magee said,
“We hope that students will
come in order to enjoy the func-
tion that we are providing for
the university.”’

Tickets for the S.A.B.U. Ball
can be purchased at the office of
minority affairs, The Minority
Cultural Center and at the
Warner Center the night of the
show.

Gospel on Cable Nine

The Sounds of Victory, a
gospel singing group, will be
featured on this week’s edition
of “Rockbridge Sounds’ on

Washington and Lee’s Cable
Channel Nine at 7:30 p.m. on
Wednesday (March 16) and Fri-

day (March 18)

Cable Nine can be seen on
Channel 9 of the Lexington
Cable System.

“Rockbridge Sounds”’ is pro-
duced by Washington and Lee
senior David Hayslette of Lex- .
ington and is designed to
showcase musical talent from

the Roekhy id
The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983, Page 5

 

 

Police crack on drunk driving

Virginia law enforcement of-
ficers arrested 4,788 more
drinking drivers in 1982 than
they did in 1981 and drinking
drivers were involved in 1,980
fewer crashes, including 50
fewer fatal crashes.

However, according to the
Department of State Police,
there were still 782 fatal
highway crashes in Virginia
during 1982. And in the 600 of

these crashes where the drink-

ing status of the drivers is
known, 278 or 46.3 percent in-
volved drinking drivers. In 10
crashes, both drivers had been

drinking.

‘‘While we have not yet made
an in-depth analysis of this in-
formation,”’ said Colonel D.M.
Slane, State Police Superinten-
dent, ‘‘these figures appear to
make quite clear the size of the
drinking driver problem. It is
often difficult to determine why
crashes and fatalities do not oc-
cur, but it would certainly ap-
pear that the increase in drink-
ing driver arrests in 1982 had a
definite impact on the reduced
number of fatalities.”

Virginia, in 1982, recorded 881
fatalities, 131 fewer than in 1981

Summer jobs in

‘My summer work in London
was the most satisfying ex-
perience of my life. The ability
to work in a foreign country
allows one to become part of the
culture, as opposed to merely
observing it as a tourist.”

This was the asseSsment of
one student who participated in
the Work Abroad program
sponsored by the Council on In-
ternational Educational Ex-
change (CIEE), the largest stu-
dent travel organization in the
United States.

Now in its 13th year, the Work
Abroad program is the only one
of its kind available in the U.S.
It cuts through the red tape to

_ help thousands of students ob-

tain temporary work in Great
Britain, Ireland, France and
New Zealand. With the assis-
tance of the Council’s
cooperating student organiza-
tions in each country, par-
ticipants discover that finding a
job abroad is no more difficult
than at home.

and the fewest recorded since
1961 when 856 persons were kill-
ed. The 136 pedestrian deaths in
1982 were the fewest since the
Department began keeping this

‘statistic in 1934.

Statistics in 1982, 54 were 19
years of age and under 85 were
between the ages of 20 and 24 in-
clusive, and 149 were 25 and
older. Similar statistics for
drinking drivers involved all
crashes — fatal, injury and pro-
perty damage ,924 were 19
years of age and under, 6,195
between the ages of 20 and 24 in-
clusive, and 11,470 were 25 and

Europe

Apart from a modest pro-
gram fee of $60, the only signifi-
cant cost to the student is the
airfare — and even that ex-
pense may be reduced by
special student and youth fares
available through the Council.

‘*...work abroad is a tremen-
dous learning experience; one
is enriched with relationships
with fellow workers and the
adventure of supporting
oneself,”’ reported another stu-
dent who worked in a Paris
boutique.

Grad wins Luce scholarship

Kevin B. Dwyer, .a_ 1981
graduate of Washington and
Lee University, is one of 15 na-
tional winners of a_ Luce
Scholarship for a year’s study
in East Asia.

Dwyer, who is currently a
second-year law student at the
University of Virginia, becomes
the third Washington and Lee
nominee to be named a Luce
Scholar as part of the program
that began in 1974.

The Luce Scholars Program
is unique in that it excludes
Asian specialists and interna-
tional affairs experts in favor of
young men and women whose
leadership potential is in fields
totally unrelated to Asian
specialities.

Glee Club

The Washington and Lee
University Glee Club will be
joined by the Union College
(N.Y.) Women’s Glee Club in a
concert in Lee Chapel on Mon-
day, March 21, at8 p.m.

The concert is open to the
public at no charge.

The 52-member W&L Glee
Club, directed by Gordon P.
Spice, will perform ‘‘Alleluia,
The Lord is King” by William-
John Clement, ‘‘Salvation
Belongeth to Our God”’ by Paul
Tschesnokov, ‘‘Lord Make Me
an Instrument of Thy Peace’’
by John Rutter, ‘“‘Ave Maria”

the student newspaper. He was
a National Merit Scholar and
was selected for inclusion in
‘“‘Who’s Who in American Col-
leges and Universities.”’

Luce Scholars are selected on
the basis of high academic
achievement, a clearly defined
career interest, leadership
potential, and adaptability to
other cultures.

Prior to Dwyer, the last W&L
graduate to be named a Luce
Scholar was Michael F. Wenke,
a 1979 graduate who spent his
year in South Korea.

The Luce Foundation was
created in 1936 by the co-
founder of Time Inc., Henry R.
Luce. Since his death in 1967,
the foundation has made grants
totaling almost $35 million for a

 

by Franz Biebl, and ‘Maeg-
diein im Walde” by Antonin
Dvorak.

diversified range of philan-
thropic projects.

A native of Leesburg, Va.,
Dwyer is a magna cum laude
graduate of W&L where he ma-
jored in English.

 

CINEMA I
Buena Vista
261-2900

The boys are back in town.

 

Shows Sun.- Thurs. 7:15
Fri, & Sat. 7:15 & 9:00
Mon. night all seats $1.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This
Your Headquarters For

Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere

of quality

 

 

 

  
    
     

older.

The Department of State
Police is determined to make a
continuing and positive effort to
curb the problem of the drink-
ing driver and has developed a
five-year plan which includes:

—Additional training for
troopers in detecting and ap-
prehending drunk drivers.

—Recommending and work-
ing toward changes in the effi-
ciency of the arresting process
and overall effectiveness of law
enforcement’s role in reducing
the overall drunk driving pro-
blem.

—Increasing emphasis on a
public information campaign to
keep the public aware of the
hazards and consequences of
drinking and driving and to
solicit their assistance in reduc-
ing the number of drunk drivers
on Virginia’s highways.

In regard to the information
campaign, the Department has
recently published and begun
distributing a brochure detail-
ing the problem and requesting
citizens to report drinking
drivers to local and State
Police. The Department also
lists toll free numbers which
can be used for this purpose.

The jobs are primarily un-
skilled — in restaurants, stores,
and hotels — but salaries should
more than cover the cost of
room and board. Some par-
ticipants save enough money
out of their earnings to treat
themselves to a vacation once
they stop working.

Employment found by par-
ticipants in the past includes
work as chambermaids or
porters in London’s West End,

bobs

as a wool presser in New
Zealand, and as lifeguards on
the Cote d’Azur.

The program is limited to
students 18 years of age or
older. For more information
and application forms, write or
phone: CIEE, PR-WA, 205 East
42nd Street, New York, NY
10017, (212) 661-1414; or 312 Sut-
ter Street, San Francisco, CA
94108, (415) 421-3473.

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University
with special guests...

The Mighty Majors

March 19, 1983
Evans Dining Hall
9:00 p.m. - 2:00 a.m.

Tickets $8.50 per person—Advance tickets only
For more information call 463-9111 ext. 240 or 463-2295.

SESE SESE SESS ICNE ISS

The Pearl Anniversary $.A.B.U. Ball

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, March 17,1983

 

 

 

W6&L Calendar

Thursday, March 17

5 p.m. — CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: ‘“‘Laetrile,” Andrew J.
MacLellan, '84; “The Quark,’ John L. Graves. 84. Howe Hall,
Room 401, Preceded by tea at 4:30 p.m. in Howe 402. Public invited.
Kree
3 p.m. — DEBATE: ‘‘The People’s Right to Know: What are the
Limits of First Amendment Rights?”’ John Ehrlichman and
Eugene McCarthy. Sponsored by Contact. Warner Center. Public
Invited. Free.
8p.m. —LECTURE: ‘“‘Group Portrait with Lawyers,” Dr. David J.
Luban, Research Associate, University of Maryland. Sponsored by
the Society and the Professions. Moot Courtroom of Lewis Hall.
Public invited. Free.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: Baseball, VMI; Swimming, NCAA
Division III Championships, Canton, OH; Golf, JMU Invitational,
Harrisonburg.

Friday, March 18
Society and the Professions. Legal Ethios Institute.

8 p.m. — FILM: “The Marquise of 0...’ (Eric Rohmer). France,

1972; 102 minutes. Lewis Hall, Classroom A. Sponsored by the W&L
Film Society. Free.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: Swimming, NCAA Division III

Championsips. Golf, James Madison Invitational.
Saturday, March 19

Society and the Professions. Legal Ethics Institute continues.
8:30 a.m. — ATP (Sat. only) Newcomb Hall.
1 p.m. — Baseball: Generals vs. Emory and Henry College. Smith
Field.
2p.m. — Lacrosse: Generals vs. Maryland. Wilson Field.
8p.m. — FILM: “The Marquise of 0...” (Eric Rohmer).
9 p.m. — 12th Annual S.A.B.U. Ball: the S.0.S. band. Sponsored by
the Student Association for Black Unity. Evans Dining Hall. For in-
formation call 463-9111, Ext. 240 or 463-2295.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: Swimming, NCAA Division III
Championships. Track, Richmond relay.

Sunday, March 20

3 p.m. — Piedmont Chamber Orchestra. Sponsored by the
Rockbridge Concert Theatre Series. Jackson Memorial Hall, VMI.

Monday, March 21
7 p.m. — FILM: BBC/Time-Life Shakespeare Series: ‘‘The
Winter’s Tale.”’ Northen Auditorium. Public invited. Free.
8 p.m. — CONCERT: W&L Glee Club and the Women’s Chorus of
Union College, Schenectady, NY. Lee Chapel. Public invited. Free.

 

 

 

Presents

——— a q

One of the largest production
efforts of the year—

TEA &
SYMPATHY

Pulitzer
Poet to

read Wed.

Pulitzer Prize-winning poet
Anthony Hecht will read from
his works as part of the
Glasgow Endowment Commit-
tee’s 1983 Poetry Series at
Washington and Lee University
on Wednesday, March 23.

Hecht’s reading begins at 4
p.m. in Northen Auditorium of
the University Library. The
public is invited to attend and
admission is free.

Hecht won the Pulitzer Prize
for Poetry in 1968 for his volume
of poems entitled ‘The Hard
Hours.”

Earlier this year he was
awarded The Bollingen Prize in
Poetry of Yale University
Library, one of the nation’s
riost distinguished literary
l onors and considered one of
{1e two top prizes in poetry in
1 1e United States.

He is the John H. Doane Pro-
tcssor of Rhetoric and Poetry at
the University of Rochester and
is currently serving as the 26th
Consultant in Poetry in English
to the Library of Congress in
Washington, D.C.

A native of New York, he
received the B.A. degree from
Bard College and the M.A.
degree from Columbia Univer-
sity. He is a chancellor of the
Academy of American Poets, a
member of the National In-
stitute of Arts and Letters, and
a fellow of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences.

== =H

University Theater

 

 

Ty. ea and Sympathy
at the Troubadour

Three members of the cast of the Washington and Lee University
Theatre production of ‘‘Tea and Sympathy” rehearse a scene from
‘the Robert Anderson play which will be presented in the
Troubadour Theatre March 21 through March 26. The cast
members are, from left, Christopher Carmouche, David Marsh,
and Andy Berisford. The play is directed by Paula Langdon, in-
structor in drama at W&L. Tickets are $3. (Members of the W&L
community are admitted free.) Reservations are required and can
be made by telephoning 463-9111, Ext. 371 or 463-9395. The curtain
rises at 8 p.m. for each performance.

Concerts This Term

March

17 Kenny Rogers & Crystal Gayle Roanoke Civic Center
17. The Kinks Capitol Center
20 Billy Squier Charlotte, NC
20 Blue Oyster Cult University of Maryland
24 Randy Newman The Bayou, Washington
26 Pure Prairie League Virginia Military Institute
27 Rush Greensboro, NC
28 Tom Petty & Nick Lowe Capitol Center
29 Tom Petty & Nick Lowe William and Mary
April

1 Jimmy Buffett Chrysler Hall, Norfolk

3 Alabama (Sold Out) Salem Civic Center
8 New Virginians Roanoke Civic Center
9 The Grateful Dead Hampton Coliseum
16 Dan Fogelberg William and Mary
es se
q a
 SERVIADTAR:
LEXINGTON HARDWARE
463-2242
23S. Main
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

March 21-26
University Theater

Doors open at 7:30 pm
Curtain goes up at 8:00

For Reservations Call 463-9111 ext. 371

LS. SS SSa.-O LaSaI™U—SSIU_ SS SSS SSS 0

 

HNNUINVUOUUULLUUNAUNAULLALUAEUUUUTAAA LANA
gn* cot ww AS
v 1 hrs. work — $5

No Experience Necessary

Call 463-6914 for details
ANN

—__ LSI I— >>> LS HS4)
__ _ SSS eam OLE —OSSS_ SOO
r ee a 2 ee Oe ay

 

 
 

 

Review:

Styx’ ‘Kilroy’ hits new peaks

By BRIAN OLIGER
Special to the Phi

The five man Chicago-based
band Styx is threatening to
become one of America’s
foremost rock bands. With four
consecutive triple-platinum-
plus albums to its credit,
anything the band puts out is go-
ing to sell, regardless of its
quality or content. So, at this
point, Styx could do one of two
things: first, they could throw
together some kind of trash that
fits the mold, package it, and
promote it as something for
which every teenager should
shell out his/her lunch money,
or they could hold off, take the
time to write and perform
something that will be worth
putting on vinyl, and risk rejec-
tion because ‘‘it’s different.”’

Styx eleventh album, Kilroy
Was Here, is a commendable ex-
ercise of the second option. Like
Paradise Theatre, it is a concept
album, but Kilroy corrects the
faults which left Paradise so
open to criticism. (This new
release is actually the band’s
fourth complete concept
album.) The objective of Kilroy
Was Here seems to be threefold:
- first, to entertain, through

music, visual imagery, and an °

interesting storyline; second, to
make a point (more about that
in a minute); and third, to at-
tempt to establish Styx as
substantially more than a Top
40 rock’n’roll band with Top 40
lyrics and a Top 40 following.
On all three points, they seem to
have scored.

The storyline, briefly, tells of
Dr. Righteous, leader of Majori-
ty for Musical Morality, who,
through manipulation of the
media, is successful in his at-
tempt to have rock’n’roll ban-
ned, citing it as the sole reason
for America’s moral and
economic decline. Robert Orin
Charles Kilroy is the leader of a

suceessful rock band who is im-
prisoned because of his profes-
sion. He is aided in his escape
by Jonathon Chance, a rebel
“rock’n’roller,”’ and ‘together
the two attempt to overthrow
the Righteous regime.

The point the album seeks to
make is that while the story is
obviously pure fiction, rock and
roll will outlast- the unwar-
rented criticism it draws from
numerous fundamentalist/mor-
ality groups with questionable
motives. As most of us know,
criticism of rock ranges from
accusations of Satanic over-
tones and ‘“‘backmasking”’ to
stories of a generation of deaf,
drug-addicted derelicts. While
some of this criticism may be
rooted in truth, the vast majori-
ty appears to be ill-founded. It
should be noted that no
reference to any specific group
is made on the album in any
way, either directly, indirectly,
or implied, and that to make
such an inference, would be
presumptuous. One should also
note that Styx has been a
favorite target of such criticism
for a decade or more. A line in
the song ‘‘High Time’’ best
describes the feeling of the
group: ‘It’s not the music
that’s in question, It’s more the
freedom of expression.”’

Outstanding tunes on the
album include the single ‘‘Mr.
Roboto”’ (please don’t write this
one off until you hear it in the
context of the album), ‘‘Heavy
Metal Poisoning,” which ar-
ticulates Righteous’ perspec-
tive, and the final two tracks,
“Haven’t We Been Here
Before’ and “Don’t Let It End
(reprise).’’ Several cuts here
and there ring with (shudder) c-
c-c-commercialism, and _ if
anything detracts from the ef-
fort, that’s it in a nutshell. One
of these is the original ‘‘Don’t
Let It End,” which, although
perfectly relevant to the story,

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, ——

CPT er UR eee ally

OTN
TE

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

Bui

PHONE 463-7000

 

ee ee ee ee eS

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

|
|
|

almost seems a re-creation of
‘‘Babe.”’ Two tracks are rather
disappointing musically, al-
though for the most part they
avoid the “commercial’’ label.
These two (‘‘High Time” and
‘Double Life’) are crucial to
the concept lyrically, however,
Outstanding vocal work can be
found by Tommy Shaw on ‘“‘Just
Get Through This Night.”
‘‘Haven’t...Before’ is a
beautiful duet featuring Shaw
and Dennis DeYoung. Its com-
bination of sensitive melody
and lyrics along with flawless
vocals render it the best tune on
the album.

Each selection here has been
written and performed with the
skill, sensitivity, and, most of
all, conviction which is
characteristic of Styx. The
playing is tight but not confined,
and John Panozzo’s custom set
of Tama drums gets a workout
like it hasn’t had for a few
albums, and this provides a lot
of muscle to most of the tracks.

Starring on the album and in
the tilm of the same name, Styx
is: Dennis DeYoung (key-
boards, synthesizers, and
vocals) as Kilroy (aka ‘Mr.
Roboto’’); Chuck Panozzo
(bass guitar and bass pedals)
as Lt. Vanish; John Panozzo
(drums and percussion) as Col.
Hyde; Tommy Shaw (guitars,
synthesizers, Shami-sen, and
vocals) as Jonathon Chance;
and James Young (guitars and
vocals) as the infamous Dr.
Righteous. Finally, this pro-
mises to be one helluva con-
cert...

 

 

‘The Devil and Russia”

Harold J. Berman, scholar-in-
residence at Washington and
Lee’s Frances Lewis Law
Center, will lecture on ‘‘The
Devil and Soviet Russia’’ on
Tuesday, March 22, in Lewis
Hall, the W&L law _ school
building.

The lecture begins at 8 p.m. in
Classroom B of Lewis Hall. It is
open to the public, and admis-
sion is free.

Berman is the James Barr
Ames Professor of Law at Har-
vard University, where he has
taught since 1948. He is spend-
ing the current semester at
W&L’s Lewis Law Center, con-
ducting research on the impact
of revolutions on the law.

Berman is widely acknow-
ledged as an expert on law and
religion, on Soviet law, on
religion in the Soviet Union, and
on international trade relations.

He was a lecturer on
American law at Moscow State
University in the spring of 1982.

AMM Mg Mg

QP gaes Mga ggg fA AE
=

NN

yyy gy

& =
s
=
s
$

s
S
3
3
s
ee =
=
=
S
3
$
$
=
mi

iy
My
ny =
777}

4

“iy

ny

pOUUU gp AUN gg pA ggg ANEA yg

MUL LL

°

His 19 books include ‘‘Justice
in the Soviet Union,’ ‘‘Soviet
Criminal Law and Procedure,”’
and “The Interaction of Law
and Religion.”’

Berman’s latest book, ‘“‘Law
and Revolution: The Formation
of the Western Legal Tradi-
tion,” is scheduled for publica-
tion later this year.

The lecture is the first of what
Lewis Law Center officials hope
will become a regular feature of
the scholar-in-residence pro-
gram under which visiting pro-
fessors spend a semester con-
ducting research while teaching
a seminar in the law school.

ys THEATRES

Sat. - Sun. Mats 2 &
Mon nite all seats $1.50
STATE THEATRE
UB INRT ORY pA 463 3424

Ends Thurs. - Verdict
7-9:15 (R)

PLLA

Eves. 7:15 & 9:00

ONE YOUNG CADET
WHO WAS TAUGHT
HONOR, INTEGRITY
AND DISCIPLINE
WILL UNCOVER THE
TRUTH AND YOU
WILL DISCOVER
vee, (R)

THE

LORDS OF
ISCIPLINE

CTCL

> AIN
TON, VA

Ends Thurs. - Tootsie
7-9 (PG)

 

Eves 7:15-9:00
The funniest movie

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983

 

 

Arts Workshop spring concerts

Music of Johannes Brahms
and Antonin Dvorak will be
heard at spring concerts spon-
sored by the Rockbridge Fine
Arts Workshop, when the
Washington and Lee University
Glee Club will join with the
Rockbridge Chorus and Or-
chestra for performances on
March 26 and 27.

In observance of the 150th an-
niversary of Brahms’ birth in
May 1833, the Rockbridge
Chorus will sing his unaccom-
panied motet, ‘‘Make Thou In

Northen

Mary Moody Northen Inc., a
private foundation established
by Mrs. Mary Moody Northen of
Galveston, Tex., has made a
$10,000 grant jointly to the
Historic Lexington Foundation
and Washington and Lee
University to establish two
graduate fellowships this sum-
mer at the Stonewall Jackson
House in Lexington.

The Mary Moody Northen
Graduate Fellowships will offer
the opportunity for three
months of residential work and
study during the summer by
qualified students who are
enrolled in either a master’s or
doctoral program in the fields

Me, God,” with a test drawn
from Psalm 51.

The Orchestra will play three
dances from the first of two sets
of ‘Slavonic Dances’’ by
Dvorak. The orohestral version
is based on an earlier piano duet
for four hands, and Brahms,
who had taken an interest in the
career of his younger contem-
porary, was instrumental in
getting the orchestral work
published. The popularity of the
“Dances’’ brought fame and
recognition to Dvorak and

helped to establish his reputa-
tion throughout Europe and in
America. The popularity of
these highly national ‘‘Dances”’
continues.

To complete a short program
of three numbers, soprano and
bass soloists, Chorus, Glee
Club, and Orchestra will all
combine forces to perform
Dvorak’s ‘‘Te Deum,”’ a song of
praise and rejoicing to God
from the Roman Catholic
liturgy. This work was written
in June and July of 1892, just
before Dvorak’s departure for

funds graduate

of American history, museum
studies, material culture, or ar-
chitectural history.

The fellowships will be
awarded on the basis of national
competition.

The program is being ad-
ministered jointly by W&L and
the Historic Lexington Founda-
tion. Pamela Hemenway Simp-
son, associate professor of art
history and assistant dean of
the college at W&L, is coor-
dinating the program on Wash-
ington and Lee’s behalf.

According to Simpson, the
two Northen Fellows will be
supervised by the staff of the
Stonewall Jackson House while

‘pn aam & men |

EAST LEX

 

BUSCH
6-Pack

$2.29

8
8
8
don

>
ry

  

wy ee aN + io

March 14-18 10:00a.m.-2:00 p.m.

| Supply Store Office]

COGS.) | TSAR [COReRRES 1 CORORRET S| CARERS) Coes D) (Cox

BUD
12-Pack

$4.95

SLLSADS SLSASSASAASSASDA SSSI ASA SSS SSILIASD ILA AD SSS

Washington and Lee faculty
members will serve as special
academic advisors.

Northen Fellows will also
have the opportunity to func-
tion as professional staff at the
Jackson House and will select a
special project to be completed
during their three month resi-
dency in Lexington.

Washington and Lee Presi-

dent John D. Wilson noted that
the Northen Fellowships repro-
sent a significant opportunity
for the university to join with
the Historic Lexington Founda-
tion in an important community
project.

“Our joint administration of
‘this program makes it possible
to serve our community’s in-
terests in ways that neither the

Kafkaesque mystery

By RICHARD GREFE
Special to the Phi

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation of
the 1982-83 season will be ‘“The
Marquise of O...’’ (1972; 102

aD ee

Extended —_|

seniors you can
still order ——

 

 

Graduation
Announcements

 

 

Prepaid

 

 

New York to assume the post of
director of the National Conser-
vatory, and performed there in
October of that year.

Gordon Spice, director of the
Washington and Lee Glee Club
and the Rockbridge Orchestra,
and William McCorkle, director
of the Chorus, will share the
podium for this program.

The Rockbridge Fine Arts
Workshop is aided by grants
from the United Virginia Bank,
the Virginia Commission for the
Arts, the National Endowment
for the Arts, and the County of

Rockbridge.

Admission to these concerts is
free. The performance on
Saturday, March 26 will take
place at 8 p.m. in Rockbridge
High School. Sunday’s perfor-
mance on March 27 will be at 2
p.m. at Jackson Memorial Hall,
VMI. The time of the Sunday
afternoon performance has
been set for the convenience of
those who wish to attend both
the concert, which will last no
longer than one hour, and the
travel film to be shown in Le-
jeune Hall at 3 p.m.

ellowships

university nor the Historic Lex-
ington Foundation could man-
age alone,”’ Wilson said. ‘‘I hope
this relationship among
Washington and Lee, Historic
Lexington, and Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., is a long-lasting
one.”

The Jackson House is the only
home that the famous con-
federate general ever owned.
Now owned and operated by the
Historic Lexington Foundation,
a historic preservation
organization founded in 1966,
the house and garden draw
more than 20,000 visitors each
year. Tours are provided by
volunteer docents and staff.
There is a gift shop on the
ground floor of the house. The
Jackson House sponsors educa-

tional programs, research, and

minutes), directed by Eric
Rohmer. The film will be shown
at 8 p.m. on Friday, Mar. 18 and
Saturday, Mar. 19 in Classroom
‘‘A”’ of Lewis Hall. There is no
admission charge and the pub-
lic is invited. The film is in Ger-
man with English subtitles.

“‘The Marquise of O...”’ is bas-
ed upon the novella of the same
name, first published in 1808, by
the German author Heinrich
von Kleist. The story takes
place in northern Italy during
the Napoleonic Wars and the
plot concerns a young widow
who mysteriously — without
her knowledge — finds herself
pregnant. She is so puzzled by

 

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO |

2
®
*
23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-s988
i RERE  RRERI  RTRIETI a

cane iay-licler blpaanall

publications under the auspices
of the Garland Gray Research
Center and Library, which is
located on the third floor of the
house.

Mrs. Northen, a Texas
business leader and _ philan-
thropist, has long been a
generous benefactor of Wash-
ington and Lee, the Historic
Lexington Foundation, and the
Virginia Military Institute. She
is a director of the American
National Insurance Company,
Moody National Bank, and Gal-
Tex Hotel Company. She is also
a trustee of the Moody Founda-
tion, the Sam Rayburn Founda-
tion, the Galveston Historic
Foundation, Hollins College,
and VMI. She is a director of the
Texas Historical Foundation,
and the Medical Research
Foundation of Texas. |

 

this development that she
places an advertisement in a
newspaper, announcing her
condition and requesting that
the father identify himself. The
woman’s status within the
nobility creates an added ten-
sion, as her well-bred family
ostracizes her for her breach of
“civility.”

Rohmer’s film, his first not in
French, is extremely faithful to
Kleist’s story. In fact, Rohmer
himself learned German and in-
sisted upon using German ac-
tors and even Kleist’s original
dialogue in order to effectively
reproduce the tone and flavor of
the written work.

“The Marquise of 0...’’ com-
bines elements of a Kafkaesque
mystery with an ironic moral
tale, all presented in an elegant
recreation of an 18th-century
society. The film is both a
skillful adaptation of a classic
story and a cinematic master-
piece in its own right.
The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983, Page 9
LRA EES EOD REE LOE AAA GE SLED SLL SEL DELETE IE PLE AEE LLL LLELDEL ELE AEE LALLA LAS ALLIEN S ALI ALLELE ELE LL LE LEAP ELIE
‘SALON LNA ELLE LTR TELLER LEED TRILL LLL DELETE LL NE NT

Ethics panel hosts four 4 pros

Luban keynote speaker

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor

Fifteen Washington and Lee
juniors and seniors will meet
this weekend for the annual
Legal Ethics seminar as part of
W&L’s Society and the Profes-
sions program.

Four visiting legal experts
will discuss with the students
enrolled in a legal ethics class
subjects ranging from current
changes in legal medical ethics
to ethical codes for corporate
lawyers.

The applied ethics program
Society and the Professions,
gives W&L students an oppor-
tunity to discuss ethical issues
with professionals working in
the students chosen field.

According to Professor Louis
Hodges, who founded the pro-
gram, the eighth legal ethics
seminar will not have one over-
riding theme, but will offer a
new twist — discussion of
ethical issues common to the
United States and West Ger-
many.

David J. Luban, the keynote
speaker of the seminar who will
speak in the Moot Courtroom in

Outward Bound

oppurtunities

Over 8,000 men and women,
both adults and students, will
take part in a unique program
called ‘“‘Outward Bound”’ this
year. Designed so that par-
ticipants will meet challenging
experiences in wilderness set-
tings at all times of the year,
Outward Bound courses take
place in more than a dozen
states. While many come to
Outward Bound seeking a taste
of high adventure — and they’ll
probably get it — most will
leave with a new understanding
of themselves after discovering
they are capable of doing things
they might previously have
thought ‘“‘impossible.’’ Outward
Bound believes many limits are
self-imposed.

Backpacking, mountaineer-
ing, rock climbing, canoeing,
skiing, snowshoeing, sailing,
cycling, rafting, and even cav-
ing form the core of the Out-
ward Bound experience, de-
pending on the environment in
which the course takes place.
Previous outdoor skills are un-
necessary, as is special equip-
ment other than personal
clothing and boots. Each small
group of students has one or
more expert instructors and
specialists who help them
develop outdoor and interper-
sonal skills, culminating in a
“final expedition,’’ with
minimal instructor supervision,
relying on what they have
learned during the course.
Academic credit- is often

Lewis Hall, Thursday at 8 p.m.,
will bring to the seminar his ex-

-_perience with German lawyers.

Luban, a research associate
for the Center for Philosophy
and Public Policy at the Univer-
sity of Maryland, spent fall in
Germany working with lawyers
there on ethical issues.

“This will be a type of cross-
cultural seminar,’ said
Hodges. “This is the first time
we have tried something like
this.”’

The eight seminars scheduled
for Thursday and Saturday will
be lead by Hodges, Luban and
three other legal experts.

The Hon. A. Christian Comp-
ton, a W&L. alumnus who
presently serves on the Virginia
State Supreme Court, will lead
one seminar entitled, ‘‘Ad-
justing Law to Medical Reali-

“The question now has been
raised as to when we should and
should not do things,” noted
Hodges who explained that
Compton will address legal
ethics in the changing field of
medical life-control technology.

Steven Hobbs, assistant pro-

fessor of law at W&L, will ad-

eee cS
Pa ad . es
a

you.

line of work,” Hodges said

      

You may come back a better

dress ethics for corporate
lawyers and Professor Peter
Glenn, formerly of W&L law
school and now at the Universi-
ty of South Carolina, will also
lead a seminar group.

Hodges said he expects one of
the highlights of the seminar
will be two group discussions
taken from what the guest
speakers consider to be some of
the most difficult ethical situa-
tions that they have had to face.

Other areas in which ethics
classes are offered include
medicine, and journalism.

“It’s a very exciting course
and it has tended to attract
some of the best students in the
school,’’ Hodges noted.
“Because there is a variety of
issues, there is a variety of in-
put.”

Seminars in ethics are offered
in each of the other fields and
Hodges believes that the ex-
posure to professionals helps
the students prepare both

‘graduate school interviews and

professional experiences.

“The course is designed to

help the students define the role
and function of their intended

 

Ea
ie

Pilih Gi x

at law seminar

David J. Luban, research
associate for the Center for
Philosophy and Public Policy at
the University of Maryland, will
be the keynote speaker for the
annual Legal Ethics Institute at
Washington and Lee University
on Thursday, March 17.

Luban will deliver his ad-
dress, entitled ‘‘Group Portrait
With Lawyers,” at 8 p.m. in the
Moot Courtroom of Lewis Hall,
the W&L law school building.
The program is open to the
public at no charge.

The three-day Legal Ethics
Institute, which begins March
17 and continues through Satur-
day, March 19, will involve a
number of practicing lawyers
with W&L undergraduate stu-
dents in a series of seminars on
current topics in legal ethics.

The institute is part of
Washington and Lee’s applied
ethics program “Society and
the Professions.”’

Luban is currently directing a
national projcct on legal ethics,

stobea different person.

 

Outward Bound admits students of any
sex, race, color and national or ethnic

 

origin. We are a nonprofit organization.

 

 

Outward Boundis morethana Hang in there! Ousmaet Rewed, Dept. CH.
2 e oin °

trip of high adventure. Send for more information: Greenwich, CT 06830

It's discovering yourself. Phone toll free (800) 243-8520
Learning that you're betterthan Name No experience necessary
you think you are.

And finding out how to work Street
with others. Scholarships available.

Come join us on a 3-week trip City State Zip
of excitement and self-challenge.

School

Check the courses that interest you:

which will result in the publica-
tion of three books on that topic.

A graduate of the University
of Chicago, Luban received the
M.A., M. Phil., and Ph.D.
degrees in philosophy from
Yale.

He previously taught at the
University of New Hampshire,
Yale, and Kent State and was a
visiting scholar at both the Max
Planck Institute for European
Legal History in Frankfurt and
the Max Planck Institute for
Foreign and _ International
Private Law in Hamburg.

Luban joined the Center for
Philosophy and Public Policy in
1979. In that position he also
serves as a research associate
for the University of Maryland
School of Law.

He has won both a Danforth
Fellowship and a Woodrow
Wilson Fellowship and has
received grants from the Ger-
man Academic Exchange Ser-
vice and the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities.

 

available, as is financial aid Canoeing -— Desert

based on need. In addition, wanes Water Expeditions

several Outward Bound schools —— Wilderness

offer no-interest tuition loan Sailing Backpacking  __ Outward Bound’

The course that never ends

 

 

 

Cycling am

plans, some for up to three Mountaineering ——
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983

Sports

Generals shorthanded by Middies

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee and
Navy lacrosse teams demon-
strated Saturday that the
numbers on the scoreboard and
those on the statistics sheet are
not always parailel. In every
category but one, the Generals
and Midshipmen were even:
shots (33-33); saves (14-13 for
Navy); ground balls collected
(58-57, Navy); and _ faceoffs
(each team won 12). However,
the Midshipmen converted on
four of their five extra-man op-
portunities to open their season
with a 13-7 victory. The
Generals, who took advantage
of only two of six man-up situa-
tions, saw their record fall to
1-1,

“It was very uncharacteristic
of our team,’’ said coach Jack
Emmer in reference to the
Generals’ defense against the
extra-man situations for Navy.
“We have to show that we can
settle down into playing in the
man-down situation.”

Emmer also noted that the of-
fense has to improve on con-
trolling the ball. ‘‘We should be
more fluid when we are a man

Generals

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Coach Jim Murdock’s
Washington and Lee baseball
team defeated West Virginia
Tech 12-6 on Smith Field Mon-
day to open its 1983 season.

W&L exploded for an 11-0 lead
after four innings and then held
off a late rally by the Bears.
Senior pitcher Jim Stanley
yielded six runs over eight in-
nings in picking up the win for
the Generals.

Leading 2-0 after an inning,
W&L scored six times in the se-
cond inning to take control of
the game. Sophomore Chip Hut-
chins’ solo home run to left field
and senior Jim Daly’s double
highlighted the six run outburst.

W&L added two more runs in
the bottom half of the third in-

up,”” he remarked. ‘‘I wasn’t
pleased with the team offense,
either. Since we don’t have a lot
of quickness, we’ve got to do
better on the six-one-six of-
fense. Right now we're not a
transition team.”’

Navy scored twice in the last
minute of the first quarter to
break a 2-2 tie. The Midshipmen
then took a commanding 8-3
lead into halftime by outscoring
W&L 4-1 in the second quarter.

The Generals closed the gap
to 9-7 by the end of the third, as
Joe Seifert notched two of his
three goals. But after John
Doub made it a_ two-goal
margin, the Generals were shut
out the rest of the way.

When the University of
Maryland comes to Wilson
Field for Sunday’s contest, Em-
mer said he expects a wide-
open attack from the Terrapins.

“They like to run and gun and
push the ball up the field in a
hurry. Very good on the transi-
tion.” he said. “Jim Wilker-
son,” an All-American at-
tackman, ‘“‘is a strong dodger.

Tim Worstell is a good man in
the crease.’’ Maryland also has
a midfielder that coach Dino
Mattessich feels is one of the

ning. Daly’s third double of the
game, a walk and a dropped fly
ball by the West Virginia Tech
right fielder were the key plays
in the inning.

Meanwhile, Stanley was
blanking the Bears during the
first four innings. However,
West Virginia Tech rallied to
score two runs in the fifth in-
ning, three runs in the seventh
and a final run in the top of the
eighth inning.

Freshman Kirk Breen came
on in relief of Stanley to retire
the Bears in the ninth inning
without yielding a run. Breen
walked the first two batters, but
retired the final three batters he
faced.

W&L ripped seven extra-base
hits in the game. In addition to
the Hutchins’ homer, juniors
Mike Walsh and Kevin Golden
both tripled. Junior Dave War-

 

Joe Seifert manuevers against Navy defender Neil Duffy during W&L’s 13-7 loss in Annapolis last

Saturday. (Ries photo for W&L)

best faceoff men in the country.
Said Emmer’ “We should be
able to win our share’ of
faceoffs.”’

Emmer added that he does

renfeltz ripped a double and Da-
ly doubled three times.

Senior captains Jody Harris
and Chris Cavalline figure to
lead the Generals on the field
this year. Harris batted .260 last
year and Cavalline batted over
.300 for the second straight year
with a .360 average.

The starting infield for the:

Generals is Walsh at first base,
Golden at second base, Harris
at short stop and Warrenfeltz at
third base. Sophomore Mike
Jacoby is the starting catcher.
Daly, Cavalline, and Hutchins
start in the outfield for the
Generals. Cavalline started at
second base last year, but was
moved to center field this year
to fill a gap left by graduation.
Besides Stanley and Breen,
sophomore Billy White, senior
Marty Thomas and senior Pat
Jordan figure to handle the

Murdock predicts turn-around

Washington and Lee baseball
coach Jim Murdock hopes the
days of one- and two- run losses
are long gone.

“Last season it seemed that
the only thing we did consistent-
ly at times was drop close
games,”’ states the second-year
mentor whose Generals lost six
one-run contests and three two-
run encounters.

‘Winning half of those games
would have given us a winning
record (W&L finished 9-20) so
this spring we’re going to be
more aggressive at the plate, on

the base paths, and on the
mound. We’ll see if we can turn

those close games in our
favor.”
Murdock and _ first-year

assistants Jeff Stickley and
Mark McLaughlin will work
with a veteran starting line-up
to produce that aggressiveness.
The W&L diamond boasts three
lettermen on the mound and six
returning starters in the field
including senior captains Jody
Harris and Chris Cavalline.
Harris enters season three at
shortstop. while Cavalline

moves to centerfield after split-
ting time last season at second
base and rightfield, A second-
team All-Conference selection,
Cavalline paced the team at the
plate last spring with a .340
average, 34 hits, and four home
runs. He batted .360 in 1981 and
.348 in 1980. Harris compiled a
.250 average last year and led
the squad in stolen bases with 12
(in 15 attempts).

“Chris is one of the best all-
around athletes on the team.
He’ll track down balls most
other conference outfielders

not believe the Generals will be
included in the first U.S. Inter-
collegiate Lacrosse Association
schedule one win could put us
right back in there.”

pitching chores for the
Generals. White led the
Generals with a 3.69 earned run
average last year.

W&L plays Virginia Military
Institute today at 3 p.m. at the
Keydets’ home field. Last year
the Generals defeated VMI for

Track & Field

By CHRIS FULTON
Phi Staff Writer

Plagued by injuries, and com-
batting wind gusts up to 30
m.p.h., the Washington and Lee
track team opened its outdoor
season with an impressive 92-43
victory over Davidson College
last Saturday at Wilson Field.

The Generals won 12 of 16
events and swept five events
one-two-three: the long jump,
shot put, discus throw, 110-
meter high hurdles, and 400-
meter run. Sophomore Gene
Girard won the long jump at 17
feet, 114% inches; junior Craig
Reilly put the shot a 36-9; senior
captain Eric Nelson hurled the
discus 122-6; classmate and
captain Alan Armitage cleared
the hurdles in 16.38 seconds;

e

poll, which will be released just
prior to Sunday’s_ contest.
“But,” he concluded, ‘‘with our

deal on the Bears; face E&H Saturday ©

one of their nine wins against 20
losses. W&L opens play in the
Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference on Saturday afternoon
with a doubleheader versus
Emery & Henry at.1 p.m. on
Smith Field.

* kk

W&L trounces ’Cats

and junior Eroll Skyers finished
the 400 in 52.82 seconds. Coach
Norris Aldridge commented on
the Generals’ performance,
saying that he was ‘‘very pleas-
ed with their performance,
especially considering injuries
and the weather.

W&L continues its schedule
this Friday afternoon with com-
petition in Salem, Virginia
against fellow conference
members Roanoke College and
Eastern Mennonite College.
(The meet, originally scheduled
for March 25, replaces the
March 19 Richmond Relays on
the W&L schedule.) According
to Aldrige, W&L’s strengths will
be middle distance races,
hurdles, and the field events,
barring any further injuries.

 

will not,” offers Murdock.
“Harris is Mr. Enthusiasm with
a great mind for the action.
He’s also our strongest asset on
the base paths.”

Junior Mike Walsh also
switches positions, moving
from left field to first base

where graduation claimed
W&L’s 1982 starter and reserve.
He batted .260 last spring, .338
two years back.

“This was a logical switch,”
relates the coach. ‘‘Mike’s
worked hard on firstbase play

(continued on page 11)
The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983, Page 11

 

 

Swimming

Quintet goes to Canton

Five members of _ the
Washington and Lee swim team
will journey to Canton, Ohio this
week and compete in the ninth
annual NCAA Division III
Men’s Swimming and Diving
Championships.

Junior Gary Meyer,
sophomores Taber Smith and
Bobby Pearson and freshmen
Tim Stanford and John Moody
will represent the university in
competition starting Thursday,
March 17 and running through
Saturday at Canton’s C.T.
Branin Natatorium. Three area
Division III colleges — Denison
University, Kenyon College,
and Case Western Reserve
University — will serve as host
for the Championships, which
will involve more than 300 com-
petitors representing 70 col-
leges.

W&L’s quintet will par-

ticipate in five of the Champion-
ships’ 18 events: Meyer will
swim in the 50-yard freestyle on
Thursday and in the 100-yard
freestyle on Saturday; Moody
will compete in the 100-yard
butterfly on Friday; Meyer,
Moody, Pearson and Stanford
will combine for the 800-yard
freestyle relay on Friday;

Meyer, Moody, Pearson and.

Smith will swim in the 400-yard
freestyle relay on Saturday.

“These swimmers have an
awful lot of confidence in their
potential,’ reports head coach
Page Remillard, who will ac-
company the group. ‘“‘They’re
healthier now than they’ve been
all season and they’ve spent the
last week and a half polishing
their techniques. They’ve spent
a lot of time on relay starts,
where I think they’ve shaved a
full second off their times.”

Time Out.....

MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

...somebody left the gate open
and once again I’m out of the
barnyard. You know, with all
the deserved bad press that the
running back-expatriate from
Georgia has been getting
recently, I think it’s time that
someone else, notably the tall
gentleman from Harrisonburg,
get some praise for doing the
right thing. It’s unfortunate, but
it’s becoming rare that the
super-star collegians remain at
their universities for four years.
College athletics has reached
the point — a breaking point,
perhaps — where today, the
term ‘“‘student-athlete’’ has
become lost in the shuffle. At
least Ralph is able to see what it
means, not only to himself, but

to the game itself, to stay his .

four years at UVa. More often

Golf

than not big-time college sports
have sunk to the level of a
breeding ground for the profes-
sional level. If that’s all they’re
supposed to be, why not elimi-
nate intercollegiate athletics
and substitute a minor league
instead? Give the seats in the
classroom to real students. It
will be this way until there are
more attitudes like Ralph’s that
recognize and emphasize the
“student” in student-athlete...

...Getting back down to earth
I imagine the lacrosse Generals
would just as soon have spent
last Saturday in Lexington. The
Navy defeat hopefully showed
the lax boys something about
themselves: Basically, the
team’s good, or they wouldn’t
have come back to 9-7 once they
stopped working against them-
selves (penalties, missed oppor-
tunites), they could certainly be

W&L visits JMU

~The Washington and Lee golf
team will make another at-
tempt to officially open its
season Thursday when the
squad visits Harrisonburg to
compete in the James Madison
University Spring Invitational.
The 2-day, 36-hole event will
take place at the Spottswood
Country Club.

The Generals had hoped to
begin their schedule last Fri-
day, March 11 with competition
against the University of
Rochester. However, wind, cold
temperatures, and a soggy Lex-
ington course transformed the
match into a practice round for
the teams.

W&L will join 16 squads at
JMU: Bluefield College and
Fairmont State from West
Virginia; Greensboro College,
James Madison’s ‘‘A” and ‘‘A-
plus-B’”’ teams, Lynchburg,
Methodist (N.C.) College

Morehead State (Ky.), UNC-
Wilmington, Penn State,
Salisbury State (Md.), Ship-
pensburg State (Pa.), St. John’s
(N.Y.), Towson State, VMI, and
West Virginia Wesleyan. James
Madison “A” is defending
champion.

W&L’s entry will include
junior captains Bruce Blythe
and Whit Kelly, seniors Tim
Webb and Frank English, and
freshman Turner Friedman.
Junior Steve Jones and
freshman Sam Svalina_ will
travel as alternates.

‘‘We’re hurting for ex-
perience and it’s too early to tell
who'll lead the team,” com-
ments coach Buck Leslie, who
reports that Friedman with a
76, Jones with a 77, and Webb
with a 79 turned in the best
rounds Friday. “I hope some
players will rise to the
challenge this weekend.”’

Meyer is the group’s veteran,
having participated in last Mar-

ch’s NCAA Championships —

(held at Washington and Lee)
and earned an All-America cita-
tion as a member of the 400-
yard freestyle relay team which
placed fourth and set a new
school record in the process
(3:10.25). W&L, which has been
represented in all nine Cham-
pionships, placed ninth at the
1982 meet.

“‘These five are as ready to
swim as any of the previous
NCAA swimmers I’ve coach-
ed,”’ offers Remillard, who is in
his fourth season at W&L and
seventh as a college aquatics
director. “‘They’re becoming an
excellent nucleus as we re-build
our program following last
year’s NCAA success.”

a force. Are you listening UNC,
victims of mighty Hobart
(Hobart?)...

..AS we begin the trek to
Albuquerque the following
teams will be there at the end.
In the Midwest everyone else
can -go home; Houston should
breeze. Louisville may be tops
in the Mideast but its backyard
neighbor, the sons of Joe B.
Hall, will get the ticket. In the
West whoever survives, UCLA
or UNLV, will win (The Cavs
just can’t win when they have
to.) The East is a toss up but I’ll
go for the emotional favorite
and take Lou Carnessecca over
Dean Smith. When it comes
right down to it though, a
Robert Morris-North Carolina
A&T final would be much more
fun, wouldn’t it?...

...A quick look at pro basket-
ball: the Philadelphia
76ers... :nough said...

...One final thought to ponder
— When Jack Emmer retires,
will he then be known as an ex-
lax coach?...Okay, I take it
back...

    

hd

Washington and Lee’s 1983 NCAA Championships participants
are (sitting, front) John Moody, (standing, left-to-right) Gary
Meyer, Tim Stanford, Taber Smith, Bobby Pearson. (Ries photo for
W&L)

Rough start for netmen

By DAVID STUART
Phi Staff Writer

The varsity tennis team drop-
ped two matches at home over
the weekend, losing 8-1 to the
University of Rochester on Fri-
day and 7-2 against Millersville
StateonSaturday. -

“It’s early in the season,”
commented No. 2 seed Steve
Denny on the sluggish, start of
the season. Denny lost a close
three set match 6-4, 5-7, 6-4
Saturday and doubles partner
Craig Cannon No. 1, lost a 6-4,
5-7, 6-3 match Friday.

“We had problems with fun-
damental errors such as not
bending the knees and being too
anxious,”’ said junior varsity
tennis coach Howard Ainsley.
Ainsley, acting coach for Gary
Franke over the weekend, add-
ed ‘“‘we have to really concen-

trate and win 3-all (3-3) points,”
referring to the no add scoring
used.

In comparison to last year’s
team, Franke believes the team
is “improved” and has ‘‘more
depth.”’ The loss of last year’s
No, 2 seed Wes Yonge is made
easier with the return of Denny
and four of the starting six
players from last year.

The starting six in singles are
Cannon, Denny, Andy Haring,
Jim Irwin, Charlie Kalocsay
and Scott Adams. Pairing in No.
1 doubles are Cannon and Den-
ny; No. 2 doubles Haring and
Kalocsay and No. 3 Irwin and
Anthony Fiens.

The Generals’ schedule for
the coming weekend includes
competition against Chris-
topher Newport College Friday
at 2:30, and University of Rich-
mond Saturday at 11 a.m.

 

Baseball

(continued from page 10)
most consistent performers,”
offers Murdock. ‘‘Nothing
stellar, just steady hitting and
good defense.’’ Daly batted .260
last spring .333 in 1981.

Juniors Dave Warrenfeltz
and Kevin Golden complete the
infield. ‘‘A consistent batter and
defenseman,”’ according to the
coach, Warrenfeltz returns for
year three at third base.
Golden, ‘“‘one of the hardest
workers on the team and a natu-
ral combination with Harris,”
starts at second base.

Joining the starting line-up
will be sophomore Mike Jacoby
at catcher and freshman Hugh
Finkelstein in right field. ‘‘Mike
was a big help last spring as our
‘double-header’ catcher. He
gives us what we’ve needed for

a few years — a solid, all-
around man behind the plate
and at the plate’’’ assesses the
coach, who pegs Finkelstein as
one of the team’s best fresh-
man.

Two seniors and last year’s
top ace return on the mound.
Sophomore Billy White and
seniors Marty Thomas and Jim
Stanley head a staff which also
includes senior newcomer Pat
Jordan and freshman Kirk
Breen.

Righthander White, despite a
1-3 record in ten appearances
last spring, compiled the team’s
top ERA figure at 3.69 for 53.7
innings of work, is also tops on
the staff. Righthander Stanley
was 0-2 for six appearances last
year,1-2-foer five appearances in
1981. Thomas, the lone lefty,

returns to the team after a
year’s absence. He was 0-1 in
three games as a sophomore.

The Generals’ 19-date
schedule features nine double-
headers and 16 Old Dominion
Athletic Conference battles.
Nine ODAC squads will battle
for four berths in the seventh
annual Championship Tourna-
ment set for Saturday, April 30
in Salem, Virginia. W&L has
made only one tournament ap-
pearance — 1981 — but Mur-
dock thinks 1983 could mark a
second showing.

“‘We’re hungry for a return
visit. Our defense is strong, our
pitching should be improved,
and our batting potential looks
solid. If we show the ag-
gressiveness, we'll be there.”’
ernqnaneendian teen eaea araganeasenttttinnn. tema io

 

 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1983

[PALMS opera house]

FRIDAY MARCH 18

   

ONE OF THE BEST BANDS ON THE EAST COAST

 

TOP 40 RECENT RELEASES

SS a A A AS SS SS SS A ES
SATURDAY MARCH 19

 

 

TABED avec

SATURDAY MARCH 26 OLDIES, 2: 40

 

    
 

under battle conditions on the
playing fields of the world... and
on anyone who takes sportswear
seriously. Our extra heavyweight
International Rugby Shirt began
as THE rugby shirt, became THE
fashion shirt...and has now
become THE staple knit shirt for
sportswear in cooler weather.
Whatever the season, whatever
the reason...rugby, skiing, jog-
ging, walking or just plain relaxing

The International Rugby Shirt
from Canterbury is THE Winter Knit
Shirt

So don't be fooled by
someone else’s stripes. Insist
on the genuine article... The
Authentics™ from Canterbury.

OOOO NOSSO OOOO KN KK Bao ah

i

OISOOOOOOO OS SK Kh 262s aed nd DOOCY

0.

THURSDAY MARCH 24

25° DRAFT — _
TUES: & THURS.

 

 

 

EM.

All 7.89 List Price Records
with the exception of
the Top 20,

$5.99.

 

This week only --
through Sat.

ee «| 106): 10 5s

 

 
 

 

VOLUME 82

NUMBER 23

 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTONy WAj Bie

MAR 25 1983

Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia March 24, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Faces in the crowd

 

W&L President Dr. John Wilson and Generals’ baseball team manager Burford Smith watch the ac-
tion on Smith Field last week. Wilson has shown an ardent interest in all school activities, and may be
seen in the crowd at many athletic events. (Phi photo by Ken Ries)

 

Ehrlichman

Former Senator Eugene Mc-
Carthy contended that presi-
dential administrations have
progressively become more
secretive.

Former Nixon aide John
Ehrlichman countered by sug-
gesting that there might be
more sharing of information by
the executive branch if presi-
dents could depend on confiden-
tiality.

A crowd estimated at 1,300
heard the two men discuss, if
not truly debate, the issues of
First. Amendment rights in
Warner Center on the Washing-
ton and Lee University campus

and McCarthy debate

Thursday (March 17).

The program was the fourth
presentation by Contact ’83, a
speakers’ symposium spon-
sored jointly at W&L by the in-
terfraternity council and_ the
student body.

McCarthy began the program
by suggesting that there ‘‘are
really three questions: one is
the right of the Congress to
know what an administration is
doing, the second is the right of
the public to know, and the third
is the right of the people within
the administration to know
what other people in the ad-
ministration are up to.

‘“Progressively, beginning
even before the Kennedy ad-
ministration, the progressive
thrust has been for the ad-
ministration to take for itself
more and more authority, more
rights to be secretive, more
rights to act without any real
assurance that the Senate or the
Congress knew what they were
up to or that they had actual
public support for the action,’’
added McCarthy, 66, who serv-
ed two terms as a Democratic
Senator from Minnesota and
was a presidential candidate in
1968.

(continued on page 7)

Runoffs today

 

New EC lacks

experience

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi EC Correspondent

At least nine of next year’s 12
Executive Committee members
will have had no prior EC ex-
perience, depending on the re-
sults of today’s runoff elections.

Current EC members were
not defeated, rather, they chose
not to run for re-election, and as
a result, next year’s committee
will feature a flood of new faces.

The Big 3, elected last month,
will consist of Bob Jenevein,

president; Dave Judge, vice .

president; and Len Howard,
secretary. None has served on
the EC.

Among this year’s members,
only freshman Steve Connett
and sophomore Darby Brower
are running for re-election.

Connett had 13 challengers
for the two sophomore posi-
tions, but he managed to qualify
for today’s run-off with Ken
Lindeman, Gerald Shepherd
and James White.

Brower was joined by Sam
Dalton and former freshman
representative Cole Dawson in
the run-off for the two seats.
Dawson lost his seat to Brower
and Dave Jonson last year.

Todd Barstow, Jim Messer,
Jack O’Brien and George You-
mans qualified for the run-off
for senior representative.

Randy Coffey, David Flet-
cher and Jim Green were run-
ning for the seat of upperclass
law representative, but the law
school ballot boxes had disap-
peared Monday and the votes

could not be counted.

The Calyx and the Rugby
Club both presented budget
reports at Monday’s EC meet-
ing. Phil Murray, editor of the
Calyx, reported a surplus of
$1,184. The yearbooks will be
ready by the last week of
school.

Herb Funsten of the Rugby
Club reported expenditures to
date of $451. He said the team
has 27 members, including four
law students, but lost its first
match to Roanoke March 12 by
a 24-6 count.

Two freshman class officers,
Townes Pressler and Steve
Best, responded to questions
from the EC regarding the ad-
mission of students to the grain
party on Saturday of Fancy
Dress weekend.

Students were given a ticket

their Fancy Dress Ticket,
regardless of whether they had
bought a Class Pass.

“The ABC would not let us
collect money at the door,”’ ex-
plained Pressler.

However, several committee
members suggested checking
for Class Passes at the time of
the purchase of FD tickets. If a
student does not have one, he
could be charged separately for
the grain party.

The EC also announced that it
will appoint a new chairman for
the Student Telephone Union on
April 19, and that nominations
for the Dean Gilliam Award
(student) and the Pusey Award
(faculty member) are due that
evening.

 

 

Inside the Phi
A look at the debate

page 3

Skylark program

page 4

Flintstones Chewables

....page Il

 

 
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983

U

 

pinion

 

 

Letter called ‘pompous’

To the Editor:

I would like to respond to
Katherine Settle’s letter to the
Editor which ran in the March
17 issue of the ‘‘Ring-tum Phi.”’
Settle asked if it was necessary
to print the article “Sophomore
charged with the possession of
cocaine” in the March 10 issue
of the ‘‘Phi.’’ She wrote, ‘‘The
responsibility to report school
news lies with this publication.”’
The individual mentioned in the
article is a student of this
university and therefore a part
of it. As I see it, it is the purpose
of the ‘‘Ring-tum Phi” to report
events concerning all parts of
Washington and Lee; hence, the
' article was quite essential. That
the individual was done an in-
justice, I really doubt. The inci-
dent is a matter of public
record.

I do not believe for one minute
that the ‘“Ring-tum Phi’’
overstepped its journalistic
boundaries, as Settle suggested.
The issue of drug abuse is a
relevant and important one.
Settle said that there are
students ‘‘who do not need or
wish to know’ about the
reported drug incident. That is
a pompous statement which
denies reality. Of course drug
abuse is not rampant on this
campus, but it does exist and
needs to be faced by informed
students and faculty. Settle urg-
ed this newspaper to consider

how the March 10 article would
affect students, faculty, and
alumni. The truth is that these
people do not live under rocks
and are not unaware of the facts
about drugs. If they are una-
ware, it is the obligation of the
“Ring-tum Phi” to make the
facts known to them.

President Wilson did indeed
say that our student body is a
cumulative ‘‘genius.’’ There is
inherent in that statement a
challenge — the challenge of
maintaining that genius. Self-
improvement never comes
about without introspection.
Settle writes that the article
“not only informed us, but
harmed us.”’ This is nonsense.
We will not achieve that self-im-
provement at all if our school
paper chooses to ignore the
facts and print only pleasant
material.

Finally Dean John, in ap-
proval of this paper’s reporting,
urged the ‘‘Ring-tum Phi’’ to
print the university policy state-
ment on drugs, and it appeared
— appropriately enough
—above Settle’s letter. I agree
with Settle on one point: we all,
in fact, do want a school paper
of which we can be proud. The
“‘Ring-tum Phi’s’’ treatment of
this drug issue warrants that
pride.

Sincerely,
Warren T. Taylor
Class of ’85

Wy

Ons

 

 

 

Lecture

Senator Byrd in duPont

Senator Harry F. Byrd will
speak at Lee Chapel on Wednes-
day, March 30, at 8 p.m. The
university community is cor-
dially invited. Following

Senator Byrd’s address, there
will be a short reception at
Washington and Lee’s Alumni
House.

Senator Byrd appears
through the Washington and
Lee School of Law’s Tucker
Law Forum. The Law Forum
invites and sponsors speakers
on law-related topics for the
benefit of the public and the
university community. In April,
the Law Forum together with
the Society for International

Law will present Joseph Gold,
Director of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). Mr.
Gold will speak Thursday after-
noon, April 7 at the law school.

For more information please
contact Wade Lail or Dave
Hansen; Carrel 203, Washington
and Lee School of Law.

 

Settle letter misinterpreted role of the media

To the Editor,

It is obvious from Miss Set-
tle’s letter to the Phi (March 17)
that she does not understand the
function of the media in our
society.

The First Amendment guar-
antees freedom of the press. In
exchange, the media have a
responsibility to keep the people
informed of what goes on in the
world around them.

This is a heavy responsibility,
for editors must decide what is

news and what is not. Editors
have to make this judgement
while keeping in mind that in-
formation reported by the
media is required by the people
to make the responsible deci-
sions needed to maintain a
democratic society.

The media have another
responsibilities — to set to the
agenda topics for local and na-
tional consideration. If the
media were lax in this function,
citizens would remain ignorant

 

Notes
Library books due April 2

Mrs. Linton at the University
Library would like to remind
students that April 2 is the
Winter Term due date. All
books stamped with a due date
of April 2. or earlier are due
then.

Please renew any books that
you want to keep beyond that
date. Books can be renewed by
bringing a list of the call
numbers to the Circulation

Desk or by simply calling the
library.

Students are also reminded
that all study carrels are
cleared at the end of each term.
Please remove all materials
from your carrel by 6 p.m., Fri-
day, April 8. You may use the
book cases in the Smoking
Lounges to put your materials
on until Spring Term classes
begin.

Calyx to Cadavers

Dear Cadaver Society,

Your organization owes the ‘‘Calyx’’ $200 for its page in last
year’s yearbook. If you wish to be included this year, please send
the ‘‘Calyx”’ a check for $400 before Spring break.

 

Sincerely,
Philip W. Murray
“Calyx” Editor-in-Chief

 

 

of issues which require action.
This is not to say that the media
decide where the people must
focus their attention; rather
their role is to report a story,
leaving it to the people to react
to or ignore it.

Miss Settle, in saying that
there are those “‘who do not
need or wish to know” about the
story which appeared in the Phi
concerning the W&L student
charged with possession of co-
caine, shows contempt for the
principles upon which First
Amendment guarantees are
based. To ignore events or to
wish they would just go away
would effect a society both mute
and deaf to signs of change or
unrest.

By printing the story, the Phi
showed that W&L has a news-
paper which does the student
body a service far beyond that
of being a mere outlet for of-
ficial News Office bulletins, as
it has been in recent years. If
nothing else, the story is a
reminder that W&L students
are held to the same laws as the
rest of society. Whether to abide
by the law is the individual’s
choice.

Miss Settle also said that “‘in-
justice (has been) done to the
subject of the article.” Is it an
injustice to print the facts of a
case which are available to
anyone on demand at the local

police station? Why should this
story be withheld while other

stories involving students and
the local police are printed? It
obviously should not be. To do
so would be an injustice to the
W&L community. To maintain
our self-governed community,
we must be sure to insist that
our only visible mouthpiece
—the Ring-tum Phi — keeps us
in touch with all facets of life at

W&L.

An apathetic press is but a
mirror of the society it reflects.
Let us hope that our press as
well as our society avoids

apathy.

Sincerely,
Eric R. Fife
Class of ’83

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

Sports Editor ........... 00sec cee eeeees
Assistant Sports Editor ..................
Managing Editor...............-+seee08-
Head Photographer ...............0+005-
Photographers ............0s:eeceeeeeeee

PODOTIOTE ccc ideieccesescndececvecscees

Se ge Wa wy ee Pere re Steve Perry
John Cleghorn, Allen Roberts, Rick Swagler
yess 5 Ubi bh leek backs es eel Lee Nichols

peeescisieesevees Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

Sceedeeesonewaved Chhias David W. Johnston
sore Mike Allen, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter,

Circulation Manager ................00..
Circulation Staff ............ccc cee eeeeee

Rob Schlegal, B. Scott Tilley

s£0s4 A Orbe Tom O'Brien
aieveis Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
00 6bkbee bibs CébNS AMO Jim Wood

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington; Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983, Page 3

 

Ehrlichman
A mellowed felon?

By HENRY LANGHORNE
Special to the Phi

He isn’t the same witness we saw ceaselessly bobbing and nod-
ding defiantly before Senator Sam Ervin’s Watergate Committee.
Ask some of the ethical questions he dodged during the investiga-
tion, and he may be defensive, but at least he’ll answer them.

Who knows what changed him? The same sentiment that flared
on Duke’s campus opposing the construction of Nixon’s library
may make us edgy about having a criminal like John D.
Ehrlichman speak here. Is he taking unfair advantage of being a
well known criminal? I heard him tell one interviewer that he
would never go back to law because he is making so much money
writing books and being a celebrity; but still, it is hard to say what
motivates him now.

He calls himself a writer. He no longer is an advance man for
Nixon, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs, a lawyer, or
a prisoner, but it is easy to see that he has qualities from all his
jobs.

As a writer, Ehrlichman tries to notice and retain the things
writers try to remember. He sat in a table against a window in the
Palms resturant and watched people come and go as he told us
what was wrong with Nixon and Kissinger. Later, he carefully
described to us a group of locals he observed in the Country Kitchen
Bakery on Main St. early his first morning in Lexington. He went
back there for breakfast the next morning.

Ehrlichman says that it was not until after the Watergate trials
and during his divorce that he began to record observations by
writing and sketching. Sure, he had taken notes of all his official
conversations, but he was only recording the words and not the
character of the people he met.

Sketching became one of his favorite pastimes while serving his
20 month prison term in Stafford, Ariz. ‘Sketching teaches you a
whole new way of looking at things,’’ he said. ‘It forces you to see
them differently, more clearly, I think, or more fully than you did
before.”

Ehrlichman has authored two novels: The Company and The
Whole Truth. His latest book, Witness to Power: The Nixon Years has
enjoyed moderate success. ‘‘It was a main selection of the Book-of-
the-month Club for several months, and we’re having a good run
with the paperback edition,” he said. ‘‘It’s hard to expect much
more than that.”’

He writes his works by hand. He tried typing and word processors
but did not feel comfortable and ‘besides, I don’t get the comments
on my writing my typist gives.

“‘I like going over to her house and discussing my book over a cup
of coffee with her and her husband.”’

He is also doing freelance work for magazines. He’s been in-
vestigating the DeLorean trial for some time now, and has written
an article to be published soon. ‘‘DeLorean is messing up,” he said.
“He has teams of lawyers spread all over the country, and none of
them know who will try the case.

“I certainly wouldn’t be happy defending him now,”’ he said.

It was surprising to see how calm and interested Ehrlichman
could be in answering painfully repetitive questions. He would
watch the quizzer intensely, nodding and bobbing, occasionally
raising his right eyebrow in that typical Ehrlichman manner,
pause, and deliver an answer almost straight out of Witness to
Power.

His tranquility was only disturbed when he was asked about cer-
tain aspects of Watergate or times when he felt abused by the
press. He spoke to one of Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff’s classes
the morning of the debate. Mollenhoff had briefly served at the
White House during the Nixon administration as a resident om-
budsman charged with keeping things honest.

At one point Ehrlichman blew up when Mollenhoff said that
politics should not enter in appropriation decisions. ‘‘That’s just ar-
rogant nonsense, Clark,”’ he retorted. ‘‘That’s just not the way
Washington works.”

Ehrlichman is skilled in using advance men. When he became
mired in endless discussion, he would turn to Contact Co-chairman
Mike Skardon and say, ‘‘Mike is this going to make us late?’”’

Taking the cue, Skardon would pry Ehrlichman out of the conver-
sation. It was not long before raising his right eyebrow was capable
of getting Skardon to end a television interview.

People continually asked Ehrlichman about the Environmental
Protection Agency’s problems. The EPA was his agency. It was
established by the Nixon administration and Ehrlichman handled
the domestic affairs for Nixon.

“‘Nixon told me that the environment would never win us any
votes, but it could cost us some. He wanted me to strike some
medium,” Ehrlichman recalled.

“I’ve always been somewhat of an environmentalist, and I really
hate to see what the Reagan administration is doing. I can’t stand
Watt,” he said.

(continued on page 9)

 

Former Nixon aide John Ehrlichman and former Senator Eugene McCarthy meet the press at

 

Washington and Lee University last week prior to their debate on First Amendment rights. (Hinely

photo for W&L)

McCarthy cracks jokes

Now, to seem to affect the
malice and displeaure of the peo-
ple is as bad as that which he
dislikes, to flatter them for their
love. — Shakespeare’s
“Coriolanus, ” 2,ii.

By TODD SMITH
Special to the Phi

For some of us, it was em-
barassing to have a fellow con-
victed of crimes against the
U.S. Constitution getting paid.a
few thousand of our dollars to
crack jokes at W&L. The most
painful moments were when the
audience heaped John
Ehrlichman with applause.

So some of us yearned for
“Clean Gene” McCarthy, the
‘prophet without honor in his

own country,” to put this rogue
in his place.

McCarthy was a very serious
Democratic contender in the
1968 presidential race, where he
showed a stunning appeal to in-
tellectuals, students and anyone
seeking decency in govern-
ment. McCarthy was one of the
first to attack Joe McCarthy,
when it was dangerous to do so.
“And he was, of course, first.to
challenge the presidential
power over Vietman. He was
also among the early critics of
the CIA.” writes William

O’Neill. And he was among the .

first, of the Democrats, at least,
to foresee the economic conse-
quences of the wars on poverty

Ehrlichman on the EPA

By BILL ROBERTS
Editor-in-Chief

During the debate last Thurs-
day, John D. Ehrlichman said
the Reagan administration
made a mistake by trying to
withhold Environmental Pro-
tection Agency documents con-
cerning use of the $1.6 billion
Superfund for toxic waste
clean-up.

“The fellow who decided
Ronald Reagan should invoke
executive privilege instead of
sending all of the EPA docu-
ments up to the Hill or letting
the Hill come down and inspect
them, made a judgement which
turned out to be dead wrong,”’
Ehrlichman said.

“He miscalculated the deter-
mination of Congress, the
volatility of the subject, the
tendency of the press in that
context and obviously made a
mistake which was embarrass-
ing to the President and called
on the President to disgorge
those documents anyway,” he
said.

That is a very disarming
statement coming from a man
who was convicted of obstruc-
tion of justice and two counts of
perjury in the Watergate cover-
up trials of the Nixon ad-
ministration. It would appear
that Ehrlichman has had a
change of heart — that he truly
believes the people have a right
to know and therefore the
Reagan administration should
have been more forthcoming in
answering Congressional re-
quests for information. Not so.

Later in the debate, the EPA
controversy surfaced again and
Ehrlichman tipped his hand
with an interesting analogy.

“It’s the old monkey paw pro-
blem,” he said. “‘If the monkey
puts his paw in the coconut and
he won’t let go, they are going to
catch him,” Ehrlichman said.

“On the other hand, if you let
go of it, as Reagan should have
done the first minute they asked
for the EPA documents, it’s not
going to be the biggest story of
the week.

“If they’re smart, they’ll

and in Asia.

But McCarthy has always
been a proud man. He has con-
stantly refused to play the
demagogue or to prostitute
himself for the press or the
crowd. He seemed to scorn
American political rituals,
wrote David Halberstam, and
“if he had to give good lines, if
he couldn’t help being witty,
then at least he ,could throw
them away.”

At last Thursday’s ‘“‘debate,”’
McCarthy joked about the relief
you get watching a Prepara-
tion-H commercial after seeing
Dan Rather on the news. The
crowd loved it and applauded

(continued on page 6)

make disclosure quickly and
put it behind them. If they are
dumb, they’ll try and cover it
up,”’ he said.

Ehrlichman’s reasoning is
that administrative officials
should give up requested
documents, not because the
public should know all about
them, but because graceful
compliance will result in the
least possible publicity. And
thus the least public knowledge.

The implications are not
small. ‘‘I think Watergate could
very well have been no more
than what Zeigler described it
as (a third-rate burglary) if the
administration had been com-
pletely forthcoming, if the com-
mittee to reelect had been com-
pletely forthcoming, and if they
had done some early surgery,”’
Ehrlichman said.

By extension, we, the
American public, might never
have found out what a scoundrel
Nixon was.

Concerning the EPA’s pro-
blems, if Reagan had done what

(continued on page 9)
 

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983

 

 

*

Winning is simple for Kaestner

By JOHN CLEGHORN
Phi News Editor

It all seems very simple to
Joe Kaestner.

“What you do is win,”’ said
Kaestner, assistant com-
monwealth’s attorney for the
City of Richmond, in a speech
Wednesday at Washington and
Lee University.

“Within the courtroom, it’s
you and it’s him, and it’s win-
ning,’’ Kaestner said.

In his position at Richmond,
Kaestner heads the economic
offenses unit which specializes
in the prosecution of white col-
lar and organized crime; a job,
which it seems, could not give
him any more satisfaction.

“It’s a lot of fun,’’ Kaestner
said, tall and lanky, somewhat
reminiscent of a country
lawyer.

“When you get an elected
public official taking a bribe,
now that’s corruption, that’s
fun.”’

Although his enthusiasm
about his role seems almost un-

Skylark program jumps single-sex gap

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

Last Saturday I had an ex-
perience that every student at
W&L, if not every person in the
world, should have someday. It
is known as the Skylark pro-
gram, and it was a day whose
benefit was only equalled by its
enjoyment.

What is Skylark? Formally, it
is seen as a meeting of a sinall
group of men from W&L and an
equal number of women from
Randolph-Macon Woman’s Co!-
lege with the purpose of coming
to some understandings abcut
men and women and how they
relate, particujarly with
respect to the single-sex situa-
tion of the two schools. Infor-
mally, Skylark came to offer
much more.

bounded today, Kaestner ad-
mitted that he was a while com-
ing around.

Speaking to an audience of
about 120, a large part of which
was Washington and Lee law
students, Kaestner explained
that during his first years at law
school he hated criminal law.

“How can anybody be inno-
cent beyond a_ reasonable
doubt?’’ he recalled his reason-
ing. ‘The arrogance of a jury
case was something absurd to
me.”

But, he explained, his interest
was rekindled when he began to
specialize in organized and
white collar crime while work-
ing with the state attorney
general’s office. His own peak-
ed interest was matched by a
statewide attention on white
collar offenses, he said.

“In 1977, there became a
perception of organized crime,”’
Kaestner said. ‘‘In 1977 there
became a perception of political
corruption.”

Working with the state an-
titrust department, Kaestner

The Skylark program is held
at the Skylark Estate, a serene
setting along the Blue Ridge
Parkway. The property was be-
queathed to W&L some years
ago, and today, serves many
purposes for the university, in-
cluding a sort of presidential
retreat. It is set on a hill which
looks out to the mountains and
down to lake and meadow. The
natural environment provided a
fine backdrop for the day’s ac-
tivities.

The program is conducted
jointly by Dr. Sam Namenek,
psychologist-counselor at
RMWC, and Dr. James Worth,
university counseling psycholo-
gist here at W&L. What the two
provide, essentially, is a base
for the students to take off from.
The doctors lead the discussions
and set up the day’s schedule.

SULTON a

LSAT/
eA

PREPARATION COURSES

materials - Tape libra

COURSES

admission process, call now:

 

The 4 iinesi Center for Educational Testing
1271 Ave. of the Americas, Suite 777
New York, N.Y. 10020

COURSES OFFERED
NATIONWIDE

NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-hr. or 32-hr. “Weekender” courses
Live lectures » Simulated exam conditions - Special home-study
¢ Up-to-date course materials - Counseling

iS 40-hr. begins 4/18 at the Trinity United
Methodist Church, 147 S. Main Street

or a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class coveri
the LSAT/GMAT exams and the Law School/Graduate Business School

Tou. FREE (800) 223- 2618 hyo locally:

Jay Robbins
ones a003

GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or
take the next course FREE.

 

was part of a vehement battle
against corruption which
resulted in more antitrust cases
being filed in 1977 in Virginia
than in any other state.

Although Kaestner exudes a
personal scorn for white collar
crime, he said that juries are
not any more forgiving.

“Juries don’t like white collar
crime and they don’t like cor-
ruption,’’ Kaestner said, citing
figures as proof.

He explained that recent
statisites show that juries give
white collar offenders 300 per-
cent more prison time than they
do common street criminals.

“People just don’t like it,’’ he
said, maintaining that if the
prosecutor makes the case
clear enough, the jury will
follow through with a verdict of
guilty.

“They’re not stupid folks,”’ he
said.

Just as Kaestner stressed
flawless prosecution in the
courtroom, he also explained
that many cases hinge on the in-
vestigation. And just as
Kaestner thrives on an effective

The day was composed of
both general group discussions
and various partnership ac-
tivities, which paired a male
with a female. The partnership
remained for the entire day. In
the group talks we were asked

to freely express our opinions

on the male-female situation
and how we fit into it. What the
members of the group learned
was how the opposite sex view-
ed those problems relevant to
W&L and RMWC. What’s more,
we learned that in most cases

prosecution, he- also enjoys a
good investigation.

“The difference beyween
economic crimes and street
crimes is that the prosecutor is
more involved in the investiga-

tion,’’ he said of white collar in- -

quiries.

“Investigators are marvel-
ous, but they’ll never do the job
as good as you can,” Kaestner
said, explaining that the pro-
secutor must be involved to
make sure his evidence is com-
plete.

Kaestner speaks from ex-
perience, having served as
chief prosecutor in a probe of
the Chesterfield County Board
of Supervisors. That case,
which Kaestner likened to
ABSCAM, resulted in the resig-
nation of the chairman of the
board and one supervisor.

This investigation proved to
him that with enough interest
and motivation, anyone can
conduct an effective investiga-
tion. He added that the Chester-
field police were just as capable
as the FBI or the CIA might
have been.

our feelings on these wanes
were quite similar.

Each of us came to know what
it felt like to view things
through the opposing sex’s
eyes. Topics of interest included
the difficulties presented by the
two schools, namely how the
distance affected all types of
relationships. Also, we talked of
the differences between what
men want to do and what
women want to do. The men
were enlightened as how they

Hearing on cocaine charge

By JOHN PERKINSON
Special to the Phi

Charles M. Phillips, a
Washington and Lee sopho-
more, is scheduled to appear for
a preliminary hearing in
Rockbridge General District
Court, Friday, March 25, on a

charge of possession of one
ounce of cocaine with intent to

distribute.

Phillips, of Montclair, N.J.,
was arrested Feb. 4 about 5:15
p.m. near Natural Bridge on an
Interstate 81 exit. The arrest
was made by several special

agents of the Virginia State
Police and Lexington Police Of-
ficer Steven Crowder.

A Lexington Police report
said Phillips had been under
surveillence for three weeks
before his arrest.

State police followed him to
the Roanoke airport where he
picked up a package, according
to the report.

Phillips was arrested soon
after he reentered Rockbridge
County. Police used a dog train-
ed to detect illegal substances
to search Phillips’ car.

AST LEX

 
     

BUSCH
6-Pack

$2.29

BUD

12-Pack

$4. 95

PE ie Lo

   

“The limits are your own,” he
said.

“The passion in the work
must come from the person who
is willing to do the work.”

Kaestner advocated a
straightforward and_ unhesi-
tating approach when the case
reaches the courtroom.

“If you have to be cruel to
win, it’s fine,” he said.

“It doesn’t matter how you
get the bastards, you just get
the bastards.”’

Kaestner advised the law
students in the audience to tap
all of their resources in fighting
their case, particularly
simplicity, art, and drama.

“It’s supposed -to be dra-
matic, because you are
deciding fate,” he said. “If you
don’t bring a sense of drama,
why should they?” asked
Kaestner in reference to the
jury. ‘‘That’s what separates a
suberb trial lawyer from trial
lawyers. That truly is what it
is.’”’

To Joe Kaestner it all seems
very simple.

were viewed by women. The
same was true for the women.
All of us came to the conclusion
that the ‘‘party scene’’ just did
not lend itself to the kind of
friendship we were looking for.
We wanted to de-emphasize the
sexual aspect that seems to
play so large a role in many in-
stances. The consenses was that
the opposite sex was needed as
more of a friend — that we
needed to hear opinions from
the other side more often. Over-
coming these difficulties, on the
other hand, was a problem we
had no answer for.

The other aspect of the day
was an emphasis on partner-
ship activities with a mate from
the other school. It was here
that the making of a good
friendship was a natural result.
Here, we were able to talk and
laugh with girls in a way that
went beyond the typical ques-
tions of school, year, and major.

In conclusion, Skylark offers
the coed situation which.I think
we all need. It is the kind of at-
mosphere you can’t get at a
university like ours. It’s true, as
well, that Skylark is as valuable
as it is because of the cir-
cumstances of its participants.
No, W&L does not necessarily
need to go coed. However, it
does need more programs like
Skylark to bridge the gap
created by the ‘false environ-
ment’’ of our school. It’s a pro-
gram I once again urge you to
try. It was one of the best ex-
periences of my life. I am sure
you'll find the same.

(For more information see
Dr. Worth. in the University
Counseling Center, or call him
at Ext. 282.)
 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983, Page 5

 

W&L Graduate

Mann announces attorney candidacy

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Saying that it was too early to
discuss any issues, Laurence A.
Mann, a Lexington attorney,
announced his candidacy for
the Democratic nomination for
Commonwealth’s Attorney.

Mann has a number of ties to
W&L. He received a B.A. in
philosophy from here in 1970,
and has audited courses at the
W&L School of Law. His wife,
Sally, former W&L
photographer, is the daughter
of W&L bookstore manager Bet-
ty Munger.

“T think the voters need a
viable alternative,’’ he said. ‘I
‘feel I have something to offer
the community.’”’ Among rea-
sons for seeking the office,
Mann cited his ‘‘interest in ser-
ving the community.”

The Democratic nominees for
a number of offices, including
Commonwealth’s Attorney, will
be selected at a ‘‘Mass Meet-
ing”’ to be held in May. It is ex-
pected that the Democrats’
choice will face incumbent
Beverly C. ‘‘John’”’ Read in the
election in November.

The Mass Meeting is ap-
parently conducted similarly to
a primary, with all area
Democrats coming to vote for
their preferred candidate.

Mann says he knows of no
other Democratic candidates,

and he ‘‘assume(s)”’ Read will
run for re-election.

Read, who will complete his
eighth year in office in
December, has not announced
his plans, but said Tuesday,
“T’ve enjoyed serving the peo-
ple of Lexington and Rock-
bridge County for seven years,
so I’ve given strong considera-
tion to running for a third
term.’”’ He declined to comment
on Mann’s candidacy.

At a press conference Tues-
day, Mann told reporters, “‘I
don’t want to get into any par-
ticular substantive issues.’’ He
said that it would be premature
until after the Mass Meeting.

Mann said, “‘If Mr. Read has
to be looking over his shoulder
for the next nine months, I don’t
think the Commonwealth is
served.”’

In an interview, Read said
that another candidate’s cam-
paigning would not interfere
with his discharging his duties.
“I’ve attempted to do my best
job as Commonwealth’s At-
torney,” he said. ‘‘I’ve done my
level best. I’ll continue to do
that while I’m in office.”

Mann said he is offering
something ‘‘new”’ and “dif-
ferent” to voters. When asked
what was “new” and ‘“dif-
ferent”’ that he was offering, he
said, “‘That’s difficult to say at
this point.”’

 

 

 

  

 

LAURENCE A. MANN

Asked what the issues might
be once he was willing to
discuss them, Mann said,
“‘We’ll talk about that then.”

In an exchange with report-
ers, defending his repeated
refusal to answer questions on
anything ‘‘substantive,’’ Mann
said, ‘‘No, I don’t intend to be a
Brand X candidate.”

Tn response to a suggestion
that his reticence to discuss
issues might have effect on
voters, Mann said, “I think my
standing in the community and
the service I’ve rendered in the
past make that a moot point.”’

Mann said that at this time,
he has no funds, treasurer, or
campaign committee, but he

 

 

Pearl SABU Ball

a grand success

By GREG COY
Special to the Phi

For the first time in over 12
years, the annual S.A.B.U. Ball
was a financial success. The
ball was held in Warner Center
last Saturday, March 19. The
student event drew three,times
as many people as previous
years, according to Director of
Minority Affairs John L. White.
White is one of the original
founders of the ball which
celebrated its pearl anniver-
sary this year.

“I anticipated a large crowd,
but I never expected the eve-

ning to run so smoothly,’’ White -

said.

The organization sold 300 ad-
vance tickets and another 400 to
the community and neighboring
communities.

“I was a little disappointed
that more of the Washington
and Lee faculty and students
did not show up to see the ef-
fort,’’ White said. ‘“‘We put in
first rate entertainment to
make it a real draw. It was
something all students should
have come to.”

White said that he was pleas-
ed with the support from most
of the people who work for the
University. ‘“‘They work so hard

for us, it was good for them to
have a good time,” he said. “‘We
also believe the event made a
tremendous step in improving
the W&L image in the Lex-
ington black community.”

The S.A.B.U. Ball was not
another Fancy Dress, and it is
not meant to be. Because of its
size the ball was much easier to
clean up.

“We are talking about two dif-
ferent kinds of animals here,’
said Scott Beebe, assistant
director of buildings and
grounds. ‘‘Fewer people usually
means very little mess, and it
was. They did a good job of con-
taining their mess by just hav-
ing beer on the fifth floor of the
Warner Center,’’ Beebe said.

Supervisor of Athletic Main-
tenance Richard Yeakel added

that there was not the same
elaborate decorations, or use of
the classrooms. Fancy Dress
used more space and had more
decorations which made clean-
up more difficult.

The strongest praise went to
S.A.B.U.’s ability to organize
set-up and clean-up of the
building when the ball ended.

White said, ‘‘to me it was one
of the most awesome things I
ever had a chance to watch, and
I mean watch, administer.”’

“The students moved 1,500
pounds of sound equipment
without delay.

“After celebrating for the
rest of the afternoon and night,
they took off their jackets, roll-
ed up their sleeves and cleaned
the place up,” White said.

“I was impressed. I just
couldn’t believe it,’’ said
Warner Center Securityman
Paul Coff. ‘“‘They did not say
they were going to help clean up
but the did.

(continued on page 6)

pS

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

SI PAO GER UNE SE RNIN PI atte On

8 Sebi: ak REE: NC fT IT

says he has the ‘‘nucleus of a
committee.”’

“I don’t anticipate any pro-
blems in getting a committee,”
he said

He said that between now and
May, he'll be ‘“‘working primari-
ly with the Democrats in the
county and city to get the tur-
nout to assure we get represen-
tation and a nominee who
reflects the community.”’

Mann, 34, has been practicing
law since last May. He rents
from and shares office expenses
with attorney Thomas C.
Spencer a block from the W&L
campus.

Although he isn’t in partner-
ship with Spencer, he
acknowledged that ‘‘there’s
some overflow I get the advan-
tage of.”’ He says that in his ten
months in practice, he’s been
handling ‘‘a pretty fair mix of
civil and criminal cases.”’

Mann had previously served
as a legal assistant to Spencer.
Rather than going to law school,
Mann successfully completed a
“Study Under An Attorney Pro-
gram,” in which one prepares
for the bar under the supervi-
sion of an attorney. Virginia is
one of the few states that still of-
fers this program.

He told reporters that the pro-
gram requires a great deal of
“self-discipline,” and said that
while he wouldn’t recommend it

for everybody, he had benefited
from it.

“Since the advent of law
schools, this program has died
and we don’t see it much any
more,”’ he said. ‘‘The theory
was that you worked in a law of-
fice...and thereby gained a
working knowledge of the law.”’

Of his decision to take this
route to the state bar associa-
tion, Mann said, ‘‘I sort of fell
into it...It seemed a_ logical
step.”

Mann has been a member of
the Lexington Volunteer Fire
Department, and was the Fire-
man of the Year in 1975. He was
elected to the Lexington City
Council in 1978, and was chair-
man of the Recreation Commit-
tee, Legislative Liaison, and
Shenandoah Planning District
Commissioner.

After graduation from W&L,
Mann went to work for a black-
smith. His press release says he
“earned a reputation which per-
sists through the western part
of the state for fine hand-
wrought iron work.”’

The Constitution of Virginia
says in Article VII that every
county and city will elect ‘‘an
attorney for the Common-
wealth’ who will serve for a
four year term.

The Commonwealth’s At-
torney for this area has ‘‘joint
jurisdiction” over Lexington
and Rockbridge County.

Police chief selection process
advances ; interviews scheduled

Lexington City Manager John
Doane and Lexington City
Council will begin interviewing
applicants for the office of Lex-
ington police chief next week,
according to Mayor Charles
Phillips.

Phillips said Monday that
council has begun narrowing
the field of 75 applicants. The
deadline for submission of ap-
plications was Feb. 21.

“It’s just a matter of deciding
who to interview when,”’ Phil-
lips said.

The applicants will be inter-
viewed by council and Doane.
Doane’s choice must then be ap-

‘proved by council with a simple
majority vote.

The group has met twice in
executive session since the
deadline.

A job description in the city’s
personnel manual describes the
police chief as one who “per-
forms difficult administrative
and complex protective police
work.”

The educational and _ ex-
perience requirements include
graduation from an accredited
college or university with major
work in law enforcement,
public administration and
“related areas.”’

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

BUY EARLY — SAVE!

Make Plans For Spring Break &

Oe
se ,
J 5

Sy

 

Ask For Good Deals
to Florida!

CALL
463-7

i¢ ti

 
_=- &- ap <—>-

‘ee => = ——S-_ SoS 6 SSS SSS SS SSH

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983

«EERE EA ak ESE STE SERRE ERI IS IE SSMS Ge EET AN A STG AEA A RR PH ER AO IR UN SS ar eRe,
ARR SERS Ail RS SERS a SE a GES aN SSE eS GI ESAS St BS SINE PY TNS AC api Os mm Roemer NRA

Docherty named resident scholar

The Reverend George Mac-
Pherson Docherty, minister
emeritus of The New York
Avenue Presbyterian Church in
Washington, D.C., will be a
visiting scholar-in-residence at
Washington and Lee University
this spring under the Philip
Fullerton Howerton Endow-
ment Fund.

As the Howerton Scholar,
Rev. Docherty will teach a
seminar on Christian ethics
during W&L’s six-week spring
term.

Born in Glasgow, Scotland,
and educated at Glasgow
University, Rev. Docherty was
minister at Sandyhills Church
of Scotland from 1939 to 1944. He
was minister co-adjutor at the
Barony, the Parish Church of
Glasgow, doing special inner-
city work under the Iona Youth
Trust from 1944 to 1947 and later
served for three years as
minister at the downtown North
Church in Aberdeen, Scotland.

Rev. Docherty was called to
The New York Avenue Presby-
terian Church in 1950 and serv-
ed there until his retirement in
1976. During his 26 years in
Washington, Rev. Docherty ap-
peared regularly on WTTG-TV
(Channel 5) under the auspices
of the Council of Churches. He
also broadcast sermons every
Sunday evening for 10 years

over WMAL radio in
Washington.
In 1954, Rev. Docherty

preached a sermon entitled
“One Nation Under God”’ in the
presence of President and Mrs.
Dwight D. Eisenhower. That
sermon led to an amendment of
the Pledge of Allegiance to the
Flag to include the words
‘under God.”

He is the author of ‘‘One Way
of Living,” a 1958 volume
published by Harper and Row,
and was a contributor to ‘‘That
Day With God,”’’ a compilation
of national religious expres-

LS == SB

Washington & Lee

University Theater
Presents

 

TEA &
SYMPATHY |

3
o

 

“The Largest Production
of the Year”

Now through Saturday
§:00 pm

Half price pitcher of beer
in the Cockpit with any ticket

stub from Thurs., Fri.
or Sat. night’s performances.

a=

 

T
|

  

 

>=. [> = _§§ _—=[—_==4 = SS SS OOO Se

|

 

sions of faith following the
assassination of President John
F. Kennedy.

Rev. Docherty was modera-
tor of the Washington City
Presbytery in 1962 and has con-
ducted preaching seminars for
the Defense Department for
chaplains in the European
theatre since 1975.

He was visiting lecturer in
homiletics at the Episcopal
Seminary in Alexandria, Va., in
1976-77 and was the J. Omar
Good Professor at Juniata
(Pa.) College in 4979-80.

Rev. Docherty became a
United States citizen in 1960. He
has received honorary degrees

_from Temple University and

Monmouth College. He is cur-
rently residing in St. Andrews,
Scotland.

The Philip F. Howerton Fund
was established at Washington
and Lee by Mr. Howerton’s
widow, Mrs. Emmie Howerton
of Charlotte, N.C., to stimulate
an increased examination and
understanding of the worth of
religious faith on contemporary
society and to reinforce Wash-
ington and Lee’s commitment
to what Robert E. Lee once
termed “‘the very marrow of the
Gospel.”

 

McCarthy

(continued from page 3)
heartily. But McCarthy, as if
deaf, continued his speech
under the din. He refused the
applause.

I have always found that by
refusing responsibility for suc-
cess, I could refuse responsibili-
ty for failure and still live with
myself. This may be wrong, but
I’d bet McCarthy has learned
the same thing. McCarthy stood
up there and didn’t even try to
be entertaining. He didn’t even
try to beat Ehrlichman.

And, many think he didn’t
really try to win the presiden-
cy: The ‘‘New Republic’’ said
he failed the ‘‘passion-test.”’ His
supporters claim he was trying
to project an image of integrity
and honesty and poetic wisdom
perhaps.

But as he chatted about Rus-
sian poetry after the debate in
Fairfax Lounge, I couldn’t help
thinking this ‘honesty’ of his
may be the saddest hypocrisy of
all. He may care so much that
he must pretend not to care at
all. To be ‘misunderstood’ is
much easier to live with, than to
be wrong.

Faculty achievement

An article that details a
teaching technique developed
by a Washington and Lee
University German professor

has been published in the spring
issue of “Die Unterrichtsprax-
is,”’ a journal published by the

   
 

‘Spring Break Special in
Fort Lauderdale Florida”’

Seacomber Motel
4625 N. Ocean Drive
Lauderdale by the Sea,
FL. 33308 Tel: 305-772-0210
1 Bedroom Apt.—One block to |
ocean from

Schubert Apts. ©

855 N. E. 20th Ave.,

Ft. Lauderdale, FL. 33304

Tel. 305-763-7434
Imiletooceanfrom $105.00 |

Livingston Motel :
1037 N.E. 17th Way, a

Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33304
1.2 miles to ocean from $90.00 |

Rates apply per week, per person, 4 per apt.
Call Co
PSS SS
SS in Sy

American Association of Teach-
ers of German.

Entitled ‘‘Teaching At-
tributive Adjective Endings and
Adjectival Nouns: An Attempt
at Simplification,” the article
was written by David B.
Dickens, associate professor of

 

  

  
  
 

  

 
       
    
  
  
 
 
 
  

  
 

BS

    
 
   

$135.00

  

Re

llect

 
  

  

  
  

lec

And for you and me it will
always be easier to feel wrong-
ed than to deal with being
wrong. When a professor pours
his heart and mind into a course
and students sit inattentive, it is
easy for him to joke as if he
didn’t care. When I can’t get a
paper in on time, it is easy for
me to despise professors and
fellow students as fools who
worship meaningless grades.

But this easy answer is the
wrong answer. McCarthy cares
about politics and we here all
care about learning. To do
something with this care is
risky. Democracy is a high-risk
venture, said McCarthy Thurs-
day. To strive opens us up to ex-
ternal enemies, enemies who
would judge or ridicule or hate
us; but to care and to strive
saves us from the enemy that
knows best how to thwart us
—that enemy: ourselves.

While it is hard to live with
failure, it is impossible to really
live with resignation. So if I
could go back to that debate, I
just might applaud the crimi-
nal, and not the man who could
have stopped the criminal had
he known how to try.

Dickens article on teaching published |

German at W&L.

In his article Dickens ex-
plains the system he has devis-
ed to teach the particular
aspect of German grammar
and also reports his findings
that the system leads to better
retention by students. ©

The journal in which Dickens’
article was published is devoted
to methodology of teaching Ger-
man. The American Associa-
tion of Teachers of German has
7,000 members and includes
teachers on all levels.

Dickens has been a member
of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1960.

SABU-

(continued from page 5)

“Those fellas worked harder
than anybody expected. They
did a damn good job,”*he said.

S.A.B.U. President-Elect
Ronald Magee said that student
work crews were organized on a
volunteer basis. We-did our own
security inside the event.

“‘We had to follow ABC rules
and regulations,’ Magee said.
The 14 students worked in half-
hour shifts and received no
special privileges.

Co-chairman of the ball, Ira
Puryear said, ‘‘The ball was the
success that we planned it to be.
It will go down as the best ball
in history. “S.A.B.U. XII is the
start of a new era,’’ Puryear
said. ‘‘We definitely plan to be
in Warner Center next year, we
are already making plans.”

 
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983, Page 7

 

—W2&L Calendar—

Bluegrass
on Cable Nine

The bluegrass band Wild-
grass will be featured on this
week’s edition of ‘‘Rockbridge
Sounds” on Washington and Lee
University’s Cable Nine.

The 30-minute program,
which spotlights musical
groups from the Rockbridge
area, will be shown at 7:30 p.m.
on Friday (March 25). It can be
seen on channel 9 of the Lex-
ington Cable System.

“Rockbridge Sounds’’ is pro-
duced by Washington and Lee
senior David Hayslette, a jour-
nalism major from Lexington.

Spring
Concerts

Music of Brahms and Dvorak
will be featured in spring con-
certs by the Rockbridge Chorus
and Orchestra, assisted by the
Glee Club of Washington and
Lee University, on Saturday,
March 26 at 8 p.m. at Rock-
bridge High School and on Sun-
day, March 27 at 2 p.m. in
Jackson Memorial Hall at VMI.
Admission is free.

Lecture

on Louis XIV

homes

Mrs. Susanne Oswald, the of:
ficial lecturer for the Ministry
of Culture and Communication
for Historical Sites and
Monuments in France, will pre-
sent an illustrated lecture at

Washington and Lee University

on Tuesday, March 29.
Entitled ‘‘Residences of Louis

XIV: St. Germain, Fontaine-
bleau, Versailles,” the lecture
will begin at 8 p.m. in Northen

Auditorium of the University
Library. It is open to the public
and admission is free.

Mrs. Oswald will also present

an afternoon lecture in French’

on the Pompidou Center in

Paris. That lecture, which is
also open to the public, will be
at4p.m. in duPont Auditorium.

Both programs are being
sponsored jointly by the depart-
ments of fine arts and romance
languages at Washington and
Lee.

One-Act Play

directed by
Ferguson

‘The Outcast,’’ a one-act play
adapted from a short story by
Eudora Welty, will be presented
in the Troubador Theater on
March 30th and 31st. Curtain
time for both performances will
be 8 p.m. The show, directed by
junior Bob Ferguson, features
juniors Drew Perkins and Ted

Petrides and sophomore Terry
McWhorter. (Due to the nature

of the show’s content and
language, audience discretion
is advised.) No reservations for
Wednesday’s and Thursday’s
show are required.

For more information call
63-9111 ext. 371.

 

 

BANDS:
Fri: The Convertibles

Sat: The Cool Rays (Rock ‘n Roll)

463-9331
30 N. Main Street

 

Debate

(continued from page 1)

McCarthy referred to the in-
creasing secrecy as creating
“an imperial presidency in
which you are saying that the
policy of the presidency is the
policy of the people.”’

Ehrlichman, meantime,
agreed with McCarthy that
“there are certainly some
things that the Congress has the
right to know. But let’s be
realistic. When you tell a con-
gressman anything, expect it to
appear in the Washington Post
the next morning because it
usually does.”

“The rule of thumb in any ad-
ministration is don’t tell them
unless you want to read it,’’
added Ehrlichman, who was a
special assistant in the Nixon
White House from 1969 until his
forced resignation in April 1973
at the height of the Watergate
investigation.

“If there were confidentiality
in the relationship between the
president and the Congress,
there would be a great deal
more sharing of information.
But president after president
has had his heart broken by a
congressman rushing out to im-
press a newspaperman with his
knowledge of the administra-
tion.-It is a continuing problem
and one reason there is less
communication between the
president and the Congress.”’

Ehrlichman added that while
he believes ‘“‘many, many of the
things that go on in the ex-
ecutive branch ought to be told
to the public,” it becomes
primarily a matter of timing
—when the public should know,
rather than what it should
know.

 

McCarthy suggested wryly
that ‘“‘the best justification for
secrecy on the part of ad-
ministrations I’ve known is that
it is not so much that they tell
you about what they’re up to,
but it conceals their ignorance.
There’s a lot to be said for not
knowing -how little they know.
We might be disillusioned, if not
despairing, to know that they
don’t really know what they’re
up to.”

The best exchange of the
evening came not between the
two principals but as the result
of a question from Roanoke
Times and World-News Ex-
ecutive Editor Forrest M. Lan-
don, who was part of a four-

 

 

 

 

McCarthy and Ehrlichman.

Landon zeroed in on the sub-
ject of prior restraint; that is,
prohibited from printing mater-
ial prior to its publication or
punished on a post-hoc basis if
what they print proves to be in
error.

“‘T don’t think a free society is
threatened by prior restraint,”
Ehrlichman said in response to
Landon’s question. ‘‘I do not
understand the First Amend-
ment guarantees to be in any
way absolute. One of the geni-
uses of the constitution is that it
has created a dynamic between
segments of society so that our
relative rights are constantly
being weighed against each
other.”

 

 

 

NIVERSITY
JHEAT RE

 

 

 

FE UNIVERSITY

 

WASHINGTON € L

Presents A One Act Play

ads
UFCAST

directed by
bob fergusen

March 30 & 31
Curtain 8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

 

no reservations needed

due to the nature of the show's
content and language,

audience discretion is advised

————————————

 

a

me

«
 

 

CN a OTOL ea ma

 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983

 

Sculpture studio is buzzing

Judging from the sounds (and
even most of the sights), Wash-
ington and Lee’s Howe Annex
might appear to be part of the
university’s buildings and
grounds operation.

Where else, after all, would
you expect to find such major
pieces of equipment as a wood
lathe, an arc welder, and a band
saw?

A sculpture studio,
where.

Tucked out of the way on the
back of the W&L campus, Howe
Annex is a small one-story
building that is literally abuzz
(as in buzzing saws) with activi-
ty on a typical weekday after-
noon.

‘For many people this may
not appear to be what they think
of when they think of a sculp-
ture studio,’ admits Larry
Stene, assistant professor of art
at W&L, as he supervises a stu-
dent who is trying to get the
rough spots out of a large wood
sculpture. “The fact is that to-
day the power saws and welding
equipment are almost the tradi-
tional machines, the traditional
tools a sculptor uses.”’

And the equipment, much of it
added to the W&L art depart-
ment this year, is getting plenty
of use.

The products of that use will
be on display later this month

that’s

ee 2. a

 

 

LARRY STENE (Hinely photo)

when the university has its an-
nual student art show in duPont
Gallery. That show goes on ex-
hibit Friday, March 25, and will
remain on view through April 8.

The show will include oil pain-
tings, drawings, watercolors,
and prints along with numerous
examples of constructionist
sculpture, ranging from large
free-standing abstract metal
pieces to a wooden telephone
booth complete with graffiti.

“In sculpture today, the artist
is using the byproducts of in-

Thousands of dollars of office/school
supplies and books were damaged by
steam in our stockroom.

Items such as legal pads, binders, notebooks,
envelopes, file folders and General Lee’s College.

SAVINGS UP TO 50% - 75%

__Listed below area few

Legal pads

Binders
9x12
10x13

lege

10 a.m.-2 p.m.

RAIN DATE — NEXT DAY
NFL FLL LIS LLIN)

Flip-top Notebooks
Envelopes (100 box)
General Lee’s Col-
History of W&L

In CO-OP QUADRANGLE Mar. 28th-29th

dustry and new technology to
make a statement. What we are
doing with the power equipment
is tapping the resources of steel,
wood, and stone that exist in
bountiful supply in this part of
Virginia.”

Stene, who came to W&L
from Bemidji State University
in Minnesota, believes that it is
important for his students to
have a basic grounding in all
forms — figurative to construc-
tionist.

“But we don’t want to be guil-

$ 1.59 64°
$ 1.69 68°
$ 1.79 80°
$ 1.29 32°

$10.59 $4.77
$12.09 $5.44

$10.00 $5.00

DSF WWI mW mr WWSPl mW Mh

DAMAGED SALE

Ta

ty of giving only one alter-
native,” he says. “Our goal
here is a different goal than you
might find in’ oiter situations
where the students are, for in-
stance, not permitted to take an
art course unless they are ma-
joring in art. Here the goal is to
widen and broaden the stu-
dent’s perspective of things. We
have philosophy majors and
chemistry majors and politics
majors spending a few hours a
week welding or working witha
wood sculpture.

“My goal is to put the
students in a setting that allows
them to be creative, to give
them the necessary tools and
materials. But I can’t make
them be creative. That’s up to
them. And I want them to feel
good about the fact that the
ideas they are pursuing when
they start welding a large metal
sculpture together, for  in-
stance, are their own ideas, not
mine.”’

The student show will include
works by 32 W&L students from
the studio classes of both Stene
and art professor I-Hsiung Ju.

DuPont Gallery is open to the
public with no admission
charge. The hours are 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. Monday through Friday,
11 a.m. to3 p.m. Saturdays, and
2 p.m. to4 p.m. Sundays.

An opening reception. will be
held for W&L students on Fri-
day, March 25, at3 p.m.

 

Tonight

Lovin addresses
Christianity and

public policy

An ethics professor from the
University of Chicago will
discuss the ways in which
American Christianity has ad-
dressed public policy during a
lecture at Washington and Lee
University tonight.

Robin Lovin, associate pro-
fessor of ethics and society at
The Divinity School of the
University of Chicago, will pre-
sent the lecture entitled ‘“When
Religion Goes Public: Order,
Freedom, and Justice in Ameri-
can Christianity” at 7:30 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium of the
University Library.

The lecture is open to the
public and admission is free. It
is being sponsored jointly by the
Philip Fullerton Howerton En-
dowment Fund in W&L’s de-
partment of religion and the
university lectures committee.

He received his B.A. degree
in philosophy from  North-
western University in 1968 and
his bachelor of divinity degree
from Harvard Divinity School

in 1971. He earned his Ph.D. in
religious ethics from Harvard,

here he was a teaching fellow
in theology and contemporary
change.

 

 

\““—

<< — LZ \ i>

Ti

Rh rmwe1aew

office.

 

Applications Accepted
for Editor &

Business Manager of

The Calyx
The Ring-tum Phi
The Ariel (editor only)

Applications are due
Thursday, Marci 31 at 5:00
p.m. in Carole Chappell’s
office. Interviews will begin

that night at 7:00 in the Phi

For more information

Call Rick Swagler - 463-9206

 

 

 

sett ccc CLL
 

Felon

(continued from page.3)

Ehrlichman didn’t seem to be the same confident and combative
man we saw in the televised hearings, but maybe he never was. In
his book, Years of Turmoil, Henry Kissinger had negative things to
say about Ehrlichman and the way he ran his office, but he added,
“rough talk and confrontational tactics were not natural to
Ehrlichman.”

“T really didn’t like myself in the videotapes I saw of the hear-
ings, but I prepared for them like I prepared for any trial, and I was
convinced I was right,” he said. Ehrlichman said that in the past
few years, people he has met often say, “you’re not the person I
thought you were.”

The self-assurance he displayed in the hearings crumbled and
dissolved during his trial as he recounted the day Nixon cast him
overboard. Judge John Sirica had to interrupt his testimony so
Ehrlichman could regain composure.

A year and a half in prison for obstruction of justice and two
counts of perjury confirmed Ehrlichman’s suspicion that our
criminal justice system needs revision. He occasionally gives
criminal reform lectures at law schools.

“Prisons are schools for prisoners,” he said. ‘‘They come out
knowing more methods and contacts,’’ he said.

After prison, Ehrlichman divorced his wife, “ending a marriage
that had been on the rocks for a long time,” he said.

He moved to Santa Fe and rented a small house. Santa Fe has
been a popular place for creative people to retreat. D.H. Lawrence
retreated right up the road in Taos, and Santa Fe is a mecca for tur-
quoise jewelers and tapestry weavers.

By the time he moved to Santa Fe, he had grown a beard and
decided he wanted to be a writer. He bought a Linda Ronstadt
album to play when got tired of his scratched Motzarts.

He is remarried now and has a two-and-a-half year old son. He
drives a white Volkswagen Thing and he cannot stand to be away
from home more than eight days at a time. “If it’s more than eight
days, I get cranky,” he said.

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30
TS Bee ee Wee
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and

CPVa Ce er R Leelee

OY
We

Lexington

Pizza
Hut

600 E. Nelson St. PHONE 463-7000

The V.M.1. HOP COMMITTEE Presents

 

SATURDAY, MARCH 26, 1983
:00 pm
CAMERON HALL
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Tickets available at:
CAMERON HALL

FLIP SIDE

ALVIN DENNIS
SPANKY’S

LEXINGTON DRY GOODS

TICKETS: $6.00

 

 

EODEREGESGGOQUGDGEGUGUGSQGRORERGDGHOQOQGQUCEREREQEAOCOCGEQURCRGUGEGRGCRECRECOCUOGOUROEGUEUGEDOUGEGRGGQUACUGOGEOUGIOGE

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983, Page 9

 

  

John Ehrlichman, the former Nixon aide who participated in a
debate with Senator Eugene McCarthy at Washington and Lee last
week, makes a point to a W&L journalism class while journalism
professor Clark Mollenhoff, seated at right, listens. Mollenhoff,
former Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter with the Des Moines
Register, was involved in coverage of the Watergate trials in which
Ehrlichman was a defendant. (Hinely photo for W&L)

 

 

EPA and
the right

to know

(continued from page 3)
Ehrlichman suggests he should
have done in December 1982,
then we might never have found
out about non-enforcement of
laws, collusion with toxic waste
producing industries, cover-
ups, conflicts of interest, and
political manipulation of
millions of Superfund dollars
—all of which have been charg-
ed by publicity’ minded
members of Congress and
dutifully reported by the scan-
dal mongering Washington Post.

It is a paradoxical recom-
mendation: make full dis-
closure quickly if you do not
want to get caught with your
hand in the coconut. What does
that say about the people who
are receiving the information;
Congress and the Press?

It says they are playing
power games with the ad-
ministration and nothing is be-
ing accomplished in Washing-
ton.

 

 

 

DODD DIST. CO.
VERONA, VA.

 

AAA ARORA ORR ARAAA

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

 

ee

 

YES IT

  

ia
PSc3t3 .

>

eS

 

IS,
To The
COCKPIT
Monday :

a ee ea eS
: “

<a. EERSTE

hy aa as ee Ta Ae es i ee tee een

 

Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983

 

 

Terrapins prevail as comeback falls short

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

For the second week in a row
the Washington and Lee
lacrosse team almost com-
pleted a comeback, but this
week fell short against the
Maryland Terrapins 13-9 Sun-
day on Wilson Field. The
Generals, now 1-2, can even
their record with a win under
the lights Saturday evening at
Towson State University.

After W&L attackman Joe
Seifert tied it 3-3 with 2:21 left in
the second quarter with an
assist from John Tunney,
Maryland All-American Jeff
Wilkerson connected twice
within the next 34 seconds to
give the Terps the lead for good.
But when freshman Chris John
made it a one-goal game by
scoring with one second left on a
shot taken almost parallel to the
goal, the Generals appeared to
be capable of keeping up with
Maryland in the second half.

The Terrapins, however,
came out and steamrolled W&L
in the third quarter, scoring the
next five goals for a 10-4 lead
with 12:54 to go. Wilkerson par-
ticipated in each goal, scoring
three times and assisting twice.

Golf

W&L places second

By LEE NICHOLS
Phi Sports Editor

Junior co-captain Bruce
Blythe overcame cool tempera-
tures and gusty winds to post a
72 and lead the Generals to a
second-place team finish in the
rain-shortened James Madison
University Spring Invitational.

Blythe’s one over par perfor-
mance earned him medalist
honors, edging out Tom Bean
from Penn State by one stroke
on the Spotswood Country Club

a
hExine tae

Se

Sat.-Sun. Mat. 2 & Mon.
Night All Seats $1.50

LYRIC

12 IN
LE XINGTON VA

CINEMA
463-3543

Starts Fri.
Eves. 7-9
Sat.-Sun. Mat. 2 & Mon.
Night All Seats $1.50
‘ Your big
.% chance to go
totally crazy!

“Spring

(R) Be

 

For the day he had six goals and
five assists.

“We flattened out when
Maryland scored the first goal
of the third quarter,” explained
W&L coach Jack Emmer. ‘‘We
had only four possessions in the
quarter. Our inability to clear
the ball was a big part of that.”
The Terrapins outshot the
Generals 15-2.

After Emmer called a time-
out with the Generals trailing
by six, sophomore Mark
Knobloch converted a rebound
on the extra-man situation at
11:44 to start the charge.

‘“‘We had to go to the goal and
abandon our control-type
game,’’ said Emmer. ‘We
couldn’t just play out the rest of
the game and possibly let it
snowball against us.”

Geoff Wood and Barry Water-
man then scored 20 seconds
apart to cut it to 10-7. Wood’s
goal was made possible when
Maryland lost the ball at its
restraining line on a hard check
by Kevin Walakovits.

Three minutes later, Wood
closed it to 10-9 with two goals in .
11 seconds. With the crowd of
2,500 anticipating the equalizer,
Wood’s behind-the-back shot hit
the right post and rolled out of

a trio of 78’s rounded out the
Generals’ scoring: senior
Frank English, junior co-
captain Whit Kelly, and
freshman Turner Friedman.
W&L’s team total of 306 fell one
stroke shy of Penn State and
two strokes ahead of JMU’s
“A” and “B” squads in the 16-
team field. The Generals finish-
ed ahead of all other Division
III schools. Heavy rains
cancelled the second day of play
in the 36-hole event.

“Bruce overcame the wind
and cold and had a fine round,
but then again we are no
strangers to these weather con-
ditions,” offered coach Buck
Leslie. ‘I was pleased with him
and the others who broke 80. We
need scores like that to continue
our success.’’ Commenting on
the Generals’ second-place
finish, Leslie stated that he was

 

Harried by a Maryland defender, senior attackman Joe Siefert works for an open shot in action last
Sunday at Wilson Field. The Generals rebounded from a six point deficit, only to lose 13-9. (Phi photo by

Eric Campbell)

play.

Maryland’s Tony Olmert
scored on a sharp pass from
Wilkerson with 3:15 to make it
11-9 and two more goals at the
end of long clearing passes
completed the scoring.

“John Tunney was fantastic
on faceoffs, 15-7,” said Emmer

at JMU

pleased that the team finished
as high as it did. “We would
have been paired with Penn
State and JMU on Friday,
which would have been a good
match-up. But we’ll take what
we can get.”

The Generals continued to
play consistent golf this week,
defeating Bluefield College
306-324 in Lexington. Frank
English was medalist on the
day, carding a two-over par 73,
four strokes ahead of the
nearest Bluefield competitor.
Completing the Generals’ scor-
ing were Blythe (75), Friedman
(78), and junior Steve Jones
(80).

W&L continues its sechedule
Friday afternoon at the Lex-
ington course to face
Bridgewater, Hampden-Sydney
and Shepherd colleges. Tee
time is 1 p.m.

 

CINEMA |

Starts Friday

Buena Vista

THE MOVIE YOU'LL WANT TO TELL
ALL YOUR NEIGHBORS ABOUT.

| The story of a boy
| suddenly alone

in the world.

Shows Sun. - Thur. 7:15 only, Fri., Sat. 7:15&9p.m.

   

Mat. Sat. & Sun. 2:00 p.m. Mon. night all Seats $1.50

 

Next Week : E.T. is coming Back.

 

of the Generals’ midfielder.
Emmer added that John Doub,
who had a goal and two assists,
had a strong game.

Towson State, which lost its
first game 18-7 at North
Carolina, is an aggressive
team, according to Emmer.
“They like to force the action.

They’re a little undisciplined
that way, but they can make
things happen. The only time
they’ve beaten us is when we
played there two years ago.”
W&L also has a game on
Wilson Field with Delaware
Wednesday at 3 p.m.

 

Meyer nabs honors

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

The General swim team
returned to Lexington from
Canton, Ohio and the NCAA
Swimming and Diving Cham-
pionsihps once again with
laurels as they have done in
every previous national cham-
pionship. W&L’s junior sprint
man Gary Meyer took All-
America honors by virtue of his
performance in the 100-yard
freestyle event.

 

JUNIOR GARY MEYER
..-All-American

Meyer finished 11th out of 36
swimmers in the event, turning
in a 47.32 second time, knocking
.6 off his national qualifying
time. All-America honors are
extended to the top 12 places in

 

each event.

Swimmers post improved
times at NCAA meet

.

In the other events that the
Generals participated in, the
swimmers did not place as high
but their times often dramat-
ically improved.

In the 50-free Meyer clocked
in at 21.88 to finish 23rd in the 25-
man field. The other individual
event for W&L saw freshman
John Moody place 32nd of 40 in
the 100 butterfly. His time was
53.20.

In the relays, the 800 and 400
freestyle, the Generals shat-
tered their previous bests.
Meyer and Moody teamed first
with sophomore Bobby Pearson
and freshman Tim Stanford in
the 800 free to finish 17th of 25
entries. The foursome did,
however, cut 4.25 seconds of
their qualifying time, finishing
at 7:06.90.

The same scenario was true
of the 400 free relay where
Meyer, Moody and Pearson
again teamed up, this time with
sophomore Taber Smith. This
group finished 15th out of the 28-
team field, but they, too, bet-
tered their qualifying time.
They sliced nearly 1.5 seconds
off their previous best time,
clocking in at 3:11.67.

As a team overall the
Generals finished 40th of the 44
scoring teams. The champion-
ships were won by host school
Kenyon College.

 

 
 

 

Baseball

Sports

W&L suffers three losses

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Three losses and a rain out
dampened the Washington and
Lee baseball team’s week as the
Generals’ record fell to 1-3.

W&L lost a doubleheader at
Virginia Wesleyan 5-4 and 1)-5
and lost to Virginia Military In-
stitute 16-0. A double-header
with Old Dominion Athletic
Conference opponent Emory &
Henry was postponed because
of rain.

‘‘We haven’t been able to get
on the field as much as we
would like,’”’ said W&L Coach
Jim Murdock. ‘‘That does have
an effect on us,’’ he said.

Murdock said he has bee:
pleased so far with the Generals
hitting. Chip Hutchins, Jim Da-
ly, Kevin Golden, Chris
Cavalline and Billy White were
all hitting over .300 after three
games.

“‘T think that everyone has the
potential to be a better hitter
than they are now,’’ Murdock
added.

In the first game of last Tues-
day’s doubleheader at Virginia
Wesleyan the Generals yielded
a run on a wild pitch in the bot-
tom of the seventh inning ‘0
give Virginia Wesleyan a 5-4
win. Sophomore Billy White
was the losing pitcher for the
Generals.

“‘We played well up until the
fifth inning,’’ Murdock said.
“We left 10 kids on base that
game. They can’t dwell on it
though,” Murdock stated.

Wesleyan chalked up its
seventh win against three losses
in the second game of the
doubleheader as the Eagles

 

 

Track team
ups record

to 2-0

By CHRIS FULTON
Phi Staff Writer

Overcoming chilling head-
winds down the homestretch,
the Washington and Lee track
team defeated both
Bridgewater and Eastern Men-
nonite in action Tuesday
Wilson Field, and improved
their record to 2-0. The win over
Bridgewater was especially im-
pressive; not only had
Bridgewater beaten W&L dur-
ing the indoor season, but they
had also downed the Generals in
their previous five meetings.
Head coach Norris Aldridge
commented on the victory,
stating that ‘“‘we took the wind
and the wind-chill in stride.”

Sprinters, hurdlers, and fiek
competitors all had a good day.

 

Shortstop Jody Harris backs up the play as third baseman Dave

 

Warrenfeltz nails the runner at first in action last Tuesday at Smith

Field. (Phi photo by Ken Ries)

defeated W&L 11-5. Senior Mar-
ty Thomas took the pitching loss
for the Generals.

Hutchins was the hitting star
for the Generals in the first
game with two hits and two runs
batted in. Golden led W&L of-
fensively in the nightcap with a
pair of hits and three runs bat-
ted in.

VMI never let W&L get into
the game last Thursday as the
Keydets ripped 14 hits and three
home runs in their 16-0 win.

W&L was held to three hits in
the game. Freshman Kirk
Breen absorbed the pitching
loss for the Generals.

W&L finally opens its ODAC
season this week. The Generals

Tennis |

Generals

By DAVID STUART
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee ten-
nis squad gave Roanoke a chilly
welcome with a 9-0 defeat at
home Monday, evening the
team’s record at three wins,
three losses.

Monday’s victory followed
last week’s roadtrip wins
against Emory and Henry (7-2),
and Christopher-Newport (5-4)
Saturday’s loss to the Universi-
ty of Richmond (5-1) was

W&L captured first place in
each of the throwing events,
sweeping the javelin one-two-
three.

According to Aldridge, it’s
probably a good thing that the
meet scheduled for last Friday
at Roanoke College was cancel-
led due to inclement weather.
“The extra time gave our in-

play a doubleheader at
Randolph-Macon today and
travel to Lynchburg Saturday
to face traditional ODAC power
Lynchburg College.

“Lynchburg lost a lot of their
kids from last year. They’re
very beatable,”’ said Murdock.

Murdock said that he thinks
there are more good teams and
players in the ODAC now, and
that it is difficult to pick a
favorite for the title. He said
that the addition of Catholic
University to the conference
this year could lead toa few sur-

prises.

“Any team in the conference
can be beaten,’’ Murdock
stated.

shortened by a rain out of the
double’s competition.

The contrast between the
level of play of Division I
University of Richmond and the
Division III ODAC teams like
Roanoke and Emory and Henry
cannot only be seen in the
scores but also in the quality of
play from match to match.

Though W&L handily defeat-
ed Roanoke, the quality of play
in the matches showed sub-par
performances for many team

 

jured members a chance to
recover more fully for this
week’s meet.’

On Friday, the Generals will
host the Newport News Appren-
tice School and Emory and
Henry College at Wilson Field.
The meet will begin at 3 p.m.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983, Page 11

 

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

...How many out there know
that Flintstone Chewables are
the official chewable vitamin of
the 1984 Olympic team? Yes,
that’s right, now our athletes
can ingest all the sugar-coated
Dino the dinosaur multivita-
mins that their hearts desire.
Hold it. Stop the train. This
Olympic authorization stuff has
gone too far. I mean, how many
eight-year old U.S. Olympians
are there? Of course, there’s
also the $16 million that the peo-
ple in Los Angeles have shelled
out to Twentieth Century Fox
' for the film rights to the 1984
Summer Games. Film rights?
What happened to Mr. Couber-
tin’s (founder of the Olympic
Games) original idea of a sim-
ple meeting of the world’s
athletes to compete for com-
petition’s sake? Has the idea of
the athletes and their events
become secondary to all this
commercialization? Oh well, I
guess we'll just have to wait for
the official Olympic Underoos...

...Now, back to Lexington ...
Commendations go out to W&L
swimmer Gary Meyer for tak-
ing All-American honors at the
Ninth NCAA Swimming and
Diving Championships held this
past weekend in Canton, Ohio.
Gary made the A-A list for his
performance in the 100-yard
freestyle event...More plaudits
also to the W&L golfers for the
fine showing in Harrisonburg.
Co-captain Bruce Blythe won
the Invitational and the team
defeated all Division III op-
ponents, finishing second
overall just two strokes shy of
front-running Penn State

 

members. Freshman Scott
Adams (no. 6) was plagued by
double faults and said he was
“tentative.” Junior Jim Irwin
(no. 4) was slapping the ball
more than driving his hard
forehand, and surprisingly said
he was ‘‘nervous.’’ Usually con-
sistent Andy Haring, who has
moved from no. 5 to no. 3 spot
since last year, missed easy
overheads and struggled to win
the closest singles match 6-3,
7-5.

  
  

FLORIST &
GREENERY

Time Out....

...Generals’ lacrosse  suf-

‘fered through another defeat

last weekend. What they need to
do is put four quality quarters
together instead of just three. In
both of their losses the team had
one quarter that put themselves
in an inescapable hole. (Against
Navy it was the second, out-
scored 4-1. This past weekend it
was the third, outscored 4-0)
The situation is simply this: the
extent of the Generals’ perfor-
mance goes far beyond the
scores...

..Gee, I guess I was wrong.
Herschel Walker went over 150
yards last week. Oh...sorry,
that’s for the season.... I hope
everyone is geting up for those
hockey playoffs and basketball
playoffs. I enjoy sports that
give every franchise including
those with losing records a
chance for post-season play...

...Well, it seems that the
baseball season is again upon
us. Some _ interesting
developments should be taken
note of: Yes, Bowie Kuhn is still
commissioner. Why and how I
don’t know. Billy Martin is back
managing the Yankees...at

weet ere weemmne ower eect oe

be Na cent st Aaa Ds soe

 

least for opening day. Tor —

Seaver is also back in the ?'
Apple, again pitching fc.
Mets. The Mets are looking for
some sort of a _ turnaround.
Seaver can be good, but that
good? One other thing, pre-
season baseball sure is exciting,
isn’t it?...

.[ leave you with this: Ivan
Lendl earned $1,928,850 in tour-
nament prize money alone last
year. The President of the
United States makes $200,000 a
year. Then again, Ivan did win
more often...

Varsity coach Gary Franke
added that it is hard to maintain
top performance in every
match; against teams like
Roanoke there is a tendency for
his players ‘‘not to tax them-
selves.”

W&L will host Division I

 

blank Roanoke to even recor”

Howard University’s junior -

varsity team this Saturday, and
James Madison University -
Monday.

    

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

° (703) 463-9152 2

 
 

 

 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1983

LeU OUT O) 8S 88 Oe iy

 

 

 

NOW ON TAP, COLORADO'S FINEST —— TRY SOME!

 

 

 

 

 

 

THURSDAY MARCH 24

TADED WUSIC REE

 

 

 

FRIDAY MARCH 25 FUNK & SOUL AT ITS BEST

CABAL & vance conor sss

 

 

 

 

 

 

SATURDAY MARCH 26 A W&L FAVORITE

BED BALL UETS “sean

 

 

WEDNESDAY MARCH 30

THE DEAL +«=

 

 

 

APRIL 1&2 GREAT DANCE & SHOW BAND

NRANAJES

 

 

 

 

COMING APRIL Se*JOHNNY SPORTCOAT & THE CASUALS”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

White and khaki.

  

 

 

 

a RECORDS

| For Spring, our own collection of imported MM. |

| India cotton madras. New patterns and col- ; ;

| orations to please even the most dis- All 7.89 List Price Records
| criminating connoisseur of madras shirt- with the exception of

| ings. From traditional basics to soft pastels. the Top 20,

| Long and half-sleeve shirts from $26°°. $5.99.

| This week only --

| Fist Arrived!! New shipment through Sat.

| of pleated cotton twill pants.

 

|
| MASTER CARD STUDENT ACCOUNTS VISA CORNER

ag a a ty

a lg a
ee ee eS ET Oe

ee nen Te eee

 

 
 

VOLUME 82

 

NUMBER 24

O.W. ‘“‘Tom” Riegel

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSI!

LEXINGTONY VA: 24450
APR1 1993

 

Reagan as Propagandist

By ALLEN ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

The growth and sophistica-
tion of communications
technology has made the use
and misuse of propaganda a
crucial element of statecraft.

O.W. “‘Tom’’ Riegel, former
head of the Washington and Lee
Journalism Department for 34
years and an_ international
authority on propaganda, told
the Ring-tum Phi in an inter-
view Tuesday that ‘‘the Reagan
administration’s confronta-
tional Soviet policy could easily
involve us in the consequences
of an overt aggressive act.”

President Reagan, reassured
by charts and declassified in-
telligence photos, presented to
the nation last week an ominous
picture of a growing Soviet
threat to our national security.
This perceived communist
menace always looms larger
before the American public just
as the latest defense budget
figures come under congres-
sional scrutiny; but the Presi-
dent went on to describe an ex-
otic space-based laser and par-
ticle beam weapon that he says
would knock out incoming
Soviet ballistic missiles.

Even as administration of-
ficials defended claims that the

 

 

Inside the Phi
Focus Excelsior... p.3

Lax team rebounds...

p.13

Student Protest

in the 80’s...

p.12

 

 

research program would
violate the 1972 antiballistic
missile treaty and the 1967
Outer Space Treaty, many
scientists publicly doubted the
feasibility of Reagan’s pro-
posal. Dr. Wolfgang K.H.
Panofsky, a Stanford Universi-
ty physicist, told the New York
Times “the practitioners in the
field are not anywhere near as
gung-ho as the President’s
speech implies.’’

Even if the beam weapon
satellites could become opera-
tional, their use would upset the
delicate premise of the 1972
ABM treaty ——=« without the

(continued on page 3)

Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia March 31, 1983

Philadelphia

Bartini leaves W&L

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Michael Bartini, who until
Tuesday was Washington and
Lee’s Director of Student
Financial Aid, tomorrow begins
a new career in the financial aid
division of the College Board’s
Philadelphia regional office.

Bartini said that while it will
be an “‘exciting new change,”
he’ll miss W&L’s students
“tremendously.”

“The years at W&L have been
a pleasant experience,” he said
in an interview on his last day at
the office. “It’s been fun work-
ing with a well-established in-
stitution that has a deep com-
mitment to education and see-
ing students benefit directly
from it.”

Van Pate, the Associate
Director of Admissions, will be
the interim financial aid direc-
tor until Bartini’s replacement
is named.

“‘We’re hopeful we’ll have
someone in place by the end of
June,” Pate said.

The new director is being
chosen by a committee, with
final approval coming from
President Wilson’s office. Bar-
tini said his successor will
report to Admissions Director
William Hartog.

“‘T think (Bartini) has done an
excellent job,’’ Pate said. “I
think he’s been an excellent
financial aid director and we’re
going to miss him a lot.”’

Pate will continue many of his
admissions office duties at the
same time he moves over to
financial aid. ‘‘Basically I’ll be
working full-time here and full-
time there,” he said.

Before changing to admis-
sions, Pate was W&L’s financial

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

aid director for six years. He
said he made the switch
‘because the opportunity
presented itself.”

He continued, ‘“‘They both
have their gratifications and
their areas that are not so plea-
sant. It’s hard to say ‘no’ to
anyone.”

Spring is the slowest season of
the year for the admissions of-
fice, according to Pate, but
that’s not the case with finan-
cial aid.

“Spring’s going to be fairly
busy up there,”’ he said. ‘“‘Most
of the decisions have been made
about next year’s freshmen, but
decisions regarding returning
students are still very much in
the mill.”

Michael Bartini

Bartini has been with W&L
for four years. ‘‘My pattern for
an occupation is three to five
years.

“It makes a better ad-
ministrator out of me to know
that I’m always growing in-
stead of getting too settled in
what I’m doing.

‘Although I haven’t outgrown
W&L, the opportunity for me to
leave is too attractive not to
take,”’ Bartini said.

(continued on page 3)

FD profit was *6,400 but...

By RICK SWAGLER
Phi News Editor

In sharp contrast to last
year’s Fancy Dress Weekend
which lost an estimated $20,000,
this year’s event cost $14,424
less than had been budgeted,
according to SAB Fancy Dress
director John Haywood.

Included in this figure, is the
$8,000 that the Executive Com-
mittee earmarked for FD dur-
ing the SAB’s budget hearing in
October. According to Hay-
wood, the $6,400 profit was a
result of lower decorating costs
and increased sales of FD-
related items.

When we made up the early
budgets, we thought we could do
it cheaper but we weren't
sure,’ Haywood said. Last
year’s debacle depleted the stu-
dent body’s emergency funds,
which placed more pressure on
this year’s SAB to be fiscally
responsible.

“If we had lost money, we
would have had to go to Main
Street to borrow it,” Haywood
said.

Monday night, the SAB
returned $5,000 to the EC as par-
tial payment for the additional
funds the EC gave them last
year.

Co-chairman in charge of
films and Fancy Dress Len
Howard attributed the windfall
to luck and extreme caution.

‘Last year’s debacle was too
much of a good example. Now
we've hit both extremes,”
Howard said.

Howard said that he felt that
more money should have been
returned. He was glad to see,
however, that the event was
“entirely participant-funded.”’

Both Howard and Haywood
anticipate the price of an FD
ticket being lowered next year.

“In three years, we’ll be back

(continued on page 2)

  
   
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983

 

 

 

Commentary

Terror in the
Top Drawer

Dear General Lee:

Holy Week is upon us. The
promise of the Resurrection is
near. For all that, a mood of dis-
quiet grips the land. It is not
violent, acute, and curable. It is
low-level, chronic, and so far
has resisted the ministrations of
sensible men. A never-ending
din of voices is now the
background muzak of our
public lives, all crying peace.
Egregious references to our
new weapons are all over the
place. God knows these engines
of mass destruction are grim,
but this peace-at-any-price
mood is grimmer far.

An individual here at your old
college had occasion to refer to
another gentleman as an
“‘unregenerate fascist.’’ He
claims to have meant it literal-
ly. As best I can tell, the
gentleman’s only crime is to
have served his country in the
profession of arms.

The latest bulletin from the
church which now bears your
name refers, apparently as a
matter of habit, to the nuclear
horror. Yet we’re one of the sen-
sible crowds. The drivel that, as
a pastoral letter, seeped out of
General Convention last year
was incredible. The United
States is anathema in every
self-respecting pulpit.
Sometimes I feel we’re at our
best decrying injustice when we
are most actively facilitating it.

Our most notable modern
tyrants have had things their
own way for about a generation
now. Predictably, this has im-
proved neither their manners
nor their morals. Yet people,
ostensibly sane, persist in ac-
ting as apologists, recruiters,
lackeys, evangelists for them.
We remain not wholly
defenseless. But their labor is in
vain who keep the city if the will
to fight is absent. As matters
now stand, I imagine we would
fall to a determined assault of

Girl Scouts. (By the way: would
anyone up there be interested in
taking about a gross of cookies
off my hands? My GPA needed
a boost, and the faculty crowd
seems to run heavily to
daughters. )

Another professor is doing his
part to save the country. Dr.
Colvin has presented for his
class and Pi Sigma Alpha has
hosted receptions for a clutch of
guest lecturers. Of late these
have mainly been general of-
ficers of the services. Their
message, labeled casually as
fascist, has been clear,
reasonable and ignored by all
but the few. “Prepare,” they
say. “It’s better to have
defenses and not need them
than to need them and not have
them.’’ Usually, no one even
wakes up. When they do, it is to
damn, vilify, excoriate and
loathe the speaker and the
message. Everyone and his dog
is in on the act. Towns declare
themselves ‘‘nuclear free
zones,” an _ influential car-
toonist, by no means unique,
elides the distinction between
deterrent (defense) and the
“threat of aggression:’’ movie
stars and rockers parade for
“‘peace”’ (on whose terms is not
clear) — it’s a case of chatter,
chatter everywhere and not a
drop of ‘‘think.’’

I write to you because, well,
you fought for our land, whose
motto was ‘‘Deo vindice,’’ God
will vindicate. Could you and
President Davis and anyone
else with influence in the
celestial realm beg God to
hurry? We’re sinking fast. But I
guess what worries me most is
the thought that this lunacy is
most firmly entrenched in the
“‘educated’’ classes. If this is
the result of education, you
wasted a good five years
here...and I’ve wasted three.

Yr. obt. and humble,
Markham Shaw Pyle

EC officers elected

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Staff Writer

Next year’s junior class will
have the greatest amount of ex-
perience on the Executive Com-
mittee as it elected the only two
members with prior EC ex-
perience.

Sophomore representative
Darby Brower was re-elected
and former freshman represen-
tative Cole Dawson edged out
Sam Dalton for the other junior
class position.

The Class of 1986 elected Ken
Lindeman and James White in
Thursday’s run-off. The two

defeated Gerald Shephard, and
Steve Connett who was running
for re-election.

Jim Messer and George
Youmans were elected senior
class representatives. They
defeated Jack O’Brien and
Todd Barstow in the run-off and
will replace Scott Mason and
Ted McQuiston, neither of
whom ran for re-election.

None of next year’s Big Three
has EC experience, either. Bob
Jenevein was elected president,
Dave Judge vice president and
Len Howard secretary in last
month’s elections.

 

 

 

z NER z NG IN PLAINS STATE
KT ELECTED GOVERNMENT

: CIRCLED, |S
QPFICIAL CBE SSR OF

 

IBLE SOMET OR CUBAN ORIGIN,

5. WLLIONS OF WARMLES Gacy
BARRELS Beast wine

Wipes ak thes NSS

 

LLE EATING LUNCH.

 

Notes

VCU summer
registration

Advanced registration for
summer classes at Virginia
Commonwealth University is
now underway.

Mail registration will run
through April 29 for all summer
classes. It will extend through
May 20 for classes beginning in
June and July and will continue
through July 1 for classes begin-
ning in July alone.

In addition, students may
register early in person in room
107, 901 W. Franklin St.

Mail registration material, a
bulletin listing summer
courses, and further informa-
tion may be obtained by calling
the Summer Studies office at
(804) 257-0200.

UC meets
Thursday

The University Council will
meet on Thursday afternoon,
March 31, 1983, at 4:15 in the

 

 

FD

(continued from page 1)
to the same oid thing: we'll
have to raise the (ticket price)
again,’’ Howard predicted.

The extra money will not go to
waste, though. The SAB plans to
buy new projection equipment
for its film series and new lights
for the Cockpit. Most of the
money will probably be spent on
two big weekends this spring.
Although the details are still be-
ing worked out, one might in-
clude a joint venture with VMI.

Haywood commented on the
profit, ‘‘The hardest thing we
can do is break even.”

Student Executive Committee

Room of the University Center.
Possible topics for discussion,

depending upon the results of

the special faculty meeting on
March 29, may be general
education requirements and
honors and capstone courses.

Freshmen
grades and

registration

Freshmen may obtain their
winter term grades from the
registrar’s office on Monday,
April 18.

On Wednesday, May 4,
freshmen are to register with

their faculty advisers for the
fall term of the academic year
1983-84.

Law students
sponsor Easter
egg hunt

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s chapter of Phi Alpha
Delta Law Fraternity will spon-
sor an Easter egg hunt for
children eight years old and
under from the Lexington area
on Saturday, April 2, at 1 p.m.

The hunt will be held on the
front campus at Washington
and Lee. Phi Alpha Delta
members will also be conduc-
ting games and contests.

 

 

Ring-tum Phi _ ,

PROP ABMC ING 6 ccc y ideac secre ers eats
Re ere
News EdiOGs .... ccccccesscccsccec eens vine
Spots EGHOr .... cicceckeccesscesagenes
Assistant Sports Editor ..............0.065
BE Ie iid. i vecees ceestcaesetei
Head Photographer ...............0ee0005
PREROGTAPRCTS 6.6... ccc cc ccs ceseveseens

Entertainment Editor..................60:
TFIING a chic veceicaceteticeiteeonens

 

LATE ED hE OES CLR ECD TVET AES Bill Roberts
PiPV UCR PEL EEC 164d O07 4 Steve Perry
John Cleghorn, Allen Roberts, Rick Swagler
Pas Ghee caileydiesd hex cs cade Lee Nichols

is dy ive cea Ned Abbe, Eric Campbell

Henry Dewing, Robert Miller

Pies 4d 0b David W. Johnston
MC kare Mike Allien, Tom Baker, Edwin Bell

John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter,

Advertising Manager ............eeeeeee5
PEGA hi ved cccedcvevercccercacts
Circulate MGRager ... cc ccc cc cccccccees
Ge ee eee ee

Rob Schlegal, B. Scott Tilley

» Ab tia RGR 0’ Gee ley ter ee pe a Tom O'Brien
rea Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
eu kav keas es fia ci Jim Wood

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum

Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983, Page 3

 

 

Propaganda

(continued from page 1)

technology to defend against a
full-scale nuclear attack, both
_ the Soviet Union and the United
States are deterred by the pro-
spect of mutual assured
destruction.

Kremlin leader Yuri V. An-
dropov characterized Reagan’s
proposal as ‘‘a bid to disarm the
Soviet Union” that ‘‘would ac-
tually open the floodgates to a
runaway race of all types of
strategic arms, both offensive
and defensive.” The chilling
fact is that Andropov’s ap-
prehension is echoed by many
of America’s experts.

One of these is Tom Riegel,
who worked for the U.S. Office
of War Information and the
State Department after a long
career as a journalist.

Riegel, 80 years old and
speaking from his retirement
home in Glasgow; feels the
President, rather than working
toward productive detente, ‘is
trying to increase tension bet-
ween us and our supposed
enemies.”’ Reagan’s anti-Soviet
fervor ‘‘almost boggles the
mind,” said Riegel, citing the
President’s recent speech in
Orlando, Fla., where he called
for Americans to counter ‘“‘the
aggressive impulses of an evil
empire.” Reagan painted a
“‘red’’ picture of Central
America, prophesizing that El
Salvador ‘will join Cuba and
Nicaragua as a _ base for
spreading fresh violence to
Guatemala, Honduras, Costa
Rica,’ and elsewhere in the
American hemisphere of in-
fluence. As a _ conscious,
systematic effort to change or
reinforce people’s attitudes,
these and other statements by
the Reagan administration fit
Riegel’s definition of propagan-
da. Robert Scheer, national
reporter for the Los Angeles
Times, asked Ronald Reagan
during his campaign for the
Presidency;’ ‘‘Are you going to
get us into a nuclear war?”
Reagan answered: “I’ve known
four wars in my lifetime... but
no, I don’t want it, but what I

have seen in all of those wars is
that we have gone into those
wars, backed our way into
them, through weakness. I have
never seen us get into one
through strength.”

These examples join a $239

’ billion defense budget to reflect

the administration’s philosophy
that being prepared to wage a
nuclear war with the intent of
‘“‘winning’’ will prevent a
holocaust. ‘‘History absolutely
contradicts this belief,’’ Riegel
said. Just as America has
bolstered its military might,
Riegel notes ‘“‘we’ve become
less secure than we've ever
been.” The author of a classic
book, Mobilizing for Chaos: The
Story of the New Propaganda,
Riegel has seen successive ad-
ministrations ‘‘base policy on
hostile and disturbing assump-
tions.’’ He describes Reagan as
“more brazen than any past
president,” referring to the
president’s statements that the
House reduction of his proposed
1984 defense budget is ‘‘a dag-
ger straight at the heart”’ of na-
tional security; that an arms
freeze is ‘“‘a very dangerous
fraud’’; and rhetorical implica-
tions that citizens’ activism
toward disarmament is
motivated by communist sen-
timents. :
“Reagan is the most
energetic propagandist we have
today,” Riegel said; and he
engages the media, often unsuc-
cessfully, to promulgate a na-
tional terror of an imminent
Soviet threat. But as the ad-
ministration generates a
mirage of America’s
vulnerability, Riegel said “‘the
Soviet Union has every reason
to be very frightened, possibly
more frightened than we are.”’
Riegel referred to the negative
response of one of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff when asked if he
would exchange our military
for that of the Soviets. This ad-
mission contrasts sharply, and
predictably, with the official
pronouncements.
Military strength figures are
selected and presented out of
context, Riegel said, to obscure

 

 

In Memoriam: Lewis Kerr Johnson

Lewis Kerr Johnson, 78,
emeritus professor of ad-
ministration at Washington and
Lee University where he taught
for 40 years before his retire-
ment in 1973, died Saturday in a
Roanoke hospital following a
brief illness.

A graveside service will take
place at 11 a.m. Tuesday in the
Stonewall Jackson Cemetery’ in
Lexington. Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, professor of religion at
W&L, will officiate.

Johnson is survived by his
wife, Margaret Lupton Johnson
of Lexington; a daughter, Mrs.
Martha Kerr Harris of Athens,
Ga.; a sister, Miss Copeland
Johnson of Waynesboro; and,
two grandchildren. —

He was born August 4, 1904, in
Staunton and received his
bachelor’s and _ master’s
degrees from the University of
Virginia. He earned his Ph.D. in
business organization from
Ohio State University.

Johnson taught economics for
five years at Mercer University
before joining the W&L faculty
in 1933.

At Washington and Lee he
served as head of the commerce
department from 1950 until
1968.

 

He was nationally known in
the fields of marketing and per-
sonnel. His publications includ-
ed a major textbook, ‘‘Sales and

Marketing Management,”’
published in 1957. He research-
ed and wrote ‘Marketing in
Virginia,” published in 1950 by
the Advisory Council on the
Virginia Economy.

One of the most respected
members of the Washington

and Lee faculty, Johnson had
been honored since his retire-
ment by the establishment of
two scholarship funds and an

endowed professorship. The
L.K. Johnson Scholarship was
created in 1974 by more than 200
of Johnson’s friends and former

students. In 1979 Robert G.
Brown, a W&L alumnus from

(continued on page 4)

 

 

the advantages we have and
highlight the margins the
Soviets have gained. While con-
ceding that many nations prac-
tice these techniques, Riegel
warned that the Reagan ad-
ministration’s unprecedented
secrecy measures “reinforce

the need for skepticism. It is the
height of folly to accept un-
proven assertions as fact.”
There is a “patriotic reflex of
agreement and response to this
fraudulent mask of crisis,”
Riegel said. ‘This is the deeply-
ingrained habit of tribe loyal-
ty,” Riegel explained, ‘“‘that
with huge populations and hor-
rendous weapons comes a
tremendous danger, a
monster.” Riegel believes the
only defense against this blind
consent is public scepticism. A
readiness to accept American

Bartini bolts to Phill

(continued from page 1) ;

Spring is the slowest season of
the year for the admissions of-
fice, according to Pate, but
that’s not the case with finan-
cial aid.

“Spring’s going to be fairly
busy up there,’’ he said. ‘‘Most
of the decisions have been made
about next year’s freshmen, but
decisions regarding returning
students are still very much in
the mill.”’

Bartini has been with W&L
for four years. ‘‘My pattern for
an occupation is three to five
years.

“It makes a better ad-
ministrator out of me to know
that I’m always growing in-
stead of getting too settled in

what I’m doing.

‘Although I haven’t outgrown
W&L, tbe opportunity for me to
leave is too attractive not to
take,’’ Bartini said.

Bartini worked all day Tues-
day, and begins in Philadelphia
Friday, April 1. There’s such a
short time between the two, he
says, ‘because my choice was
to stay at W&L as long as I
could.”’

He laughed when asked what
it would be like to begin a
career on April Fool’s Day. “‘I
made sure I had my contract
signed before I asked them if
they were kidding,” he said.

“It’s sort of become an infor-
mal office joke up tbere.”’

Bartini said he’s enjoyed his

tenure here. ‘I’ve grown
tremendously as an admin-
istrator, at least I think I have.

“T wouldn’t have been able to
do that if it weren’t for the in-
stitution’s support,”’ he said.

“It’s been a’ pleasure to work
with the students here. Students
around here are pretty much
gentlemen. The academic en-
vironment is such that you don’t
have rabble-rousers.

“Students are concerned with
the institution and its environ-
ment, so property and people
are treated with respect and
they’re supportive of each
other.”

As to whether the recent cut
in federal aid to students has
hurt W&L, Bartini said, “I

perceptions of a Soviet threat
are mirrored in the eyes of the
Russians. After all, Riegel
recalled, we were the first to
use nuclear weapons and prac-
tice the encirclement strategy
for which the Soviets are
maligned. :
Riegel was serving as
cultural attache in the
American Legation at
Budapest, Hungary when we
dropped the first atomic bomb.
He saw a Russian officer fall to
tears after reading a newspaper
account of Hiroshima’s destruc-
tion. When Riegel asked why
one of our allies would be so af-
fected, the Russian said, ‘““My
country is finished. This is go-
ing to be the end of us.”
Althoughthe officer was then
ready to submit to an enduring
American domination, Riegel

suspect not.

“The Reagan Administration
cuts lost a lot of wind compared
to his original proposals,’ he
said. ‘That was done through a
lot of lobbying by ad-
ministrators, students, and
other financial aid and college
personnel.”’

“One of the things that I think
has helped is the reduction in
the interest rate.

“The future of financial aid
on the federal scene,’’ Bartini
said, ‘‘is to maintain the present
level. We’re going to have a
drop in students and we’ll
always have an inflation rate.

‘But the goal must be to stay
constant with dollars and use
them in the most efficient way
possible.”’

explains, his government chose
to resists— ‘‘So you see, there
wasn’t a Pax Americana.”’

Riegel sees this feeling of |
helplessness overwhelming
Americans in the 1980s. His
solution is a renunciation of the
automatic patriotic reflex that
is instilled in our citizens from
infancy. Riegel said we must be
able to recognize that perhaps a
leader ‘‘doesn’t know as much
as we do.” We must ask
ourselves, Riegel advised, the
following questions when con-
sidering an administrator’s
statements:

eWhat is his motive? (Surely
someone stands to profit from
an arms race)

e Is he lying?

e What has he not said that he
knows and I should know?

¢ Who is being screwed?

Bartini says his new job will
require similar skills as the one
here. ‘‘It’s not terribly different
from what I’m doing right now
except that I’ll be working for a
new type of nonprofit organiza-
tion.

“I won’t have contact with
students anymore, but I’ll be in
a college environment.”’

After graduating from
Westfield State College, Bartini
got into financial aid work ‘‘by
coincidence.

“IT was working at a bank I
didn’t like,’’ he said when he
was offered a financial aid posi-
tion with Simon’s Rock College
in Massachusetts, where he
stayed three years before com-
ing to Lexington.
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983

 

 

Lab Band to bugle Jazz

Question: What has seven
trumpets, five trombones, one
baritone horn, one French horn,
five saxophones, one bass
guitar, one string bass, one
electric guitar, one piano, and
three percussionists?

Answer: Washington and Lee
University’s brand new Lab (as
in laboratory) Band.

Formed this winter when
W&L music professor Robert
Stewart decided to add a few in-
struments to the existing W&L
Brass and Percussion Ensem-
ble, the Lab Band will be unveil-
ed in a concert of contemporary
jazz on Tuesday, March 29, at

Tech hosts computer lab

The College of Education
Microcomputer Laboratory at
Virginia Tech will host the first
Southwest (Virginia) User’s
Group conference Friday and
Saturday, May 6 and7.

In addition to regional schools
displays and vendor exhibi-
tions, concurrent sessions will
take place on Saturday, May 7.
Concurrent presentations will
range from evaluation of con-
tent area software to the history
and architecture of the
microcomputer to setting up a
curriculum using’ the

microcomputer to graphic art
and the microcomputer -to in-
school computer repair.

   

English muffin

Along with FREE coffee

7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The concert is open to the
public at no charge.

According to Stewart, the Lee
Chapel stage will be extended
by special mechanical ar-
rangements in order to give the
band sufficient room to project
its music.

“This first concert is a trial
run,”’ explained Stewart, who
has directed W&L’s Brass and
Percussion Ensemble since
1954. “‘We had some: talented
musicians — saxophonists and
guitarists — who wanted to play
some jazz, and there was no
outlet for them. We created the

The conference will begin
with a banquet Friday evening,
followed by a business meeting
opened to members of the
user’s group. Concurrent ses-
sions, hands-on sessions,
regional school and vendor ex-
hibits, a microcomputer lab
reception, and a lunch with M.
Kenneth Magill, Director of In-
structional Media and
Technology, Virginia Depart-
ment of Education as keynote
speaker will take place on
Saturday between 9 and 5.

Those interested in attending
the conference, should write:
Mike Reed, 400 Gym, Virginia
Tech, Blacksburg, Va., 24061.

 

cheese egg

MIDNIGHT SNACKS

Due to the request from students the
SNACK BAR will remain open later
on these nights with SPECIAL
HOURS for EXAM WEEK

Friday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Sunday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Monday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Tuesday — 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Wednesday - 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.
Thursday - 8 p.m. - 12 a.m.

Egg Mc Quicks will be available for 99°

Lab Band on an experimental
basis. If it works, we hope to
keep it going.”’

The Lab Band’s first concert
will feature two jazz classics
—‘There’ll Be a Jubilee,”’ an
multiple rhythms, and chang-
ing meters as well as a
representative number from
the new standard big band
sound.

Included will be ‘‘Anti-
Ergophobia’’ and ‘Final
Analysis” by Don Ellis, a Dizzy

original arrangement compos-
ed by Phil Moore in 1944 for
Lionel Hampton and his or-
chestra, and “Stop! The Red
Light’s On,” a Gene Krupa
original by Taps Miller and
Walter Fuller in 1941.

The remainder of the pro-
gram will be composed of ex-
perimental avant-guarde jazz,

Gillespie tune, ‘‘Groovin’
High,” as performed by Ron
McConnell (boss _ brass),
“Prime Time’’ and ‘Pressure
Cooker’ by Sammy Nestico,
and ‘‘Andromeda’”’ by Jay Chat-
taway.

Solos will be performed by
Jim Davis and Adam Reinstein
on trumpet, Whitney Gadsby on
tenor sax, Charles Thompson
and John Riley on ‘trombone,
George Weatherly on keyboard,
Jay Wingert, Barte van Doorn,
and Todd Brown on drums, and
Kevin Kadesky on electric
guitar.

   
 
  

ham or bacon

 

convenience.

The Snack Bar & Supply Store will BE OPEN ON
SATURDAY from 8 a.m.-2 p.m. April 2nd for your

 

  

Good Luck on Exams
The COCKPIT will close 8:00 p.m. during EXAMS

 

  
    
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
 
   

Dirt

Survey team finds

two prehistoric sites

An archaeological survey
team from Washington and Lee
University uncovered two
prehistoric sites on Tinker
Creek in Botetourt County while
conducting a contract survey in
that area earlier this month.

According to James T.
Adams Jr., survey ar-
chaeologist at W&L, the two
sites are in close proximity in
the vicinity of Tinker Mill. Both
are small, transient campsites
from the archaic and possibly
the woodland periods, Adams
said.

“‘These sites are fairly com-
mon throughout the uplands,”
noted Adams. ‘During the
course of our field recon-
naissance and _ sub-surface
testing, we uncovered several
projectile points and waste
flakes. The sites associated
with this type of material are in-
dicative of short-term occupa-
tion by small groups of
hunters.”

The W&L team directed by
John McDaniel, associate pro-
fessor of anthropology at W&L,
was contracted by an engineer-
ing firm to conduct a Phase I
surveyof a 109,000-foot drainage
basin in preparation for a pro-

posed gravity sewer line to be

built in the area.

“We are still in the process of
quantifying and evaluating the
artifacts before we submit a

 

SPECIAL EASTER
MATINEES

Fri., Sat., Sun., Mon.
2p.m. — All Seats $1.50

 

 

THEATRE
All Seats $1.50
STATE THEATRE

Ends Thurs. 7:15-9 p.m.
“SAVANNAH SMILES” (pg)

PYAR a

Kiddie Mat. 2, Fri., Sat., Sun.,
Mon. All Seats $1.50

See Tinkerbelle

Sails CINEMA

LEXINGTON. VA 463-3543

Eve's 7:15-9 (R)
Student's § Sizzie

Mats. Fri., Sat., Sun.,
Mon. 2p.m.

report and make our recom-
mendations,”’ Adams said.

This is the third such survey
that Washington and Lee has
been selected to conduct during
this academic year. The selec-
tion is based on competitive bid-
ding with survey teams from
other academic and research
institutions. Earlier, W&L
teams surveyed sites in
Pearisburg and Hot Springs.

In addition to McDaniel and
Adams, the W&L survey team

was composed of four
Washington and _ Lee
undergraduates -- senior

Michael Gregory of Richmond,
sophomore John Delany of Lex-
ington, sophomore Randall Ray
of Wake Forest, N.C., and
freshman Ted Goebel of
Coolville, Ohio.

Another member of the
survey team was Dr. Alan
Sullivan, an archaeologist from
Arizona. McDaniel explained
that Sullivan was asked to par-
ticipate in the project ‘‘because
we knew his experience in the
Southwest would be very
helpful tq us. His involvement
was wonderful for our students
who had the opportunity to
discuss variations in techniques
and strategies with him.”

Adams noted that the
students who participated in the
project all had previous ex-
perience in such surveys.

“The real value of conducting
a survey such as this one is that -
it presents the students with an
opportunity for practical ap-
plication of the techniques they
have learned in the classroom,”’
said Adams.

Since 1977, Washington and
Lee has been awarded 15 con-
tracts to conduct surveys, vary-
ing from the preliminary Phase
I variety to the more com-
prehensive Phase II and Phase
III surveys.

Johnson—

(continued from page 3)
Dallas, Tex., established the
Robert G. Brown Professorship
to honor Johnson’s 40-year
teaching career. Johnson held
the Brown Professorship on an
emeritus basis. In 1982 another
of his former students, William
S. Rosasco III of Milton, Fla.,
honored Johnson by endowing
the Johnson-Rosasco Scholar-
ship at W&L.

“Even though L.K. retired 10
years ago, he was active in the
affairs of the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics
until his death,’”’ said Edward C.
Atwood, dean of the School of
Commerce, Economics, and
Politics. “His colleagues will
miss his cheerful presence and
his thoughtful and insightful
comments on the school, on
Washington and Lee, and on
higher education in general.”’
War wINGT ON . v1

 

if Te a im | een ma are

; TN eas
Oh 7 se, Sry. ae ae

TON. NURGINIA

EXCELS I

Excelsior, March 31, 1983, Page 5

ne zo} «tk i

 

 

A Journal of Interdisciplinary Thought

 

Opening a Dialogue on Honor

By CHRIS BOUQUET

The Executive Committee and
the Honor Code: Can We Talk
About It?

“Do not merely confound in
yourselves the legislative and
executive powers, take also the
judicial power, and then call
yourselves by your correct
name; the Terror.”

—Lamartine in the consti-
tuent assembly of the second
Republic of France.'

Notwithstanding the fact that
our executive committee “‘con-
founds” the legislative, ex-
ecutive, and judicial powers of
student government at W&L, I
do not wish to imply by the
above quote that I feel the Ex-
ecutive Committee constitutes

a “Terror” akin to the one
shown in the French Revolu-
tion. Rather, I offer the quote as
a tongue-in-cheek introduction
to this editorial, which is about
the Executive Committee and
the Honor Code. I want to bring
up questions of the fairness of
the system, without appearing
like a campus pariah. So often,
when someone brings up
criticisms of the system, as Mr.
Berghel did some time ago in
the Phi, he is immediately
labeled as suspect, dishonor-
able, or some kind of jerk with
no right to his own opinion.
Albeit,-Mr. Berghel’s criticism
was highly impolitic and he
deserved some abuse for the
abuse he offered. However, it is
legitimate for a student who

pays tuition to ask questions
about the system he lives under.

Mr. Vlahoplus pointed out in
the first edition of the Excelsior
that the honor code must brook
no question of degree. Lying is
lying, cheating is cheating and
stealing is stealing, no matter
how trivial. He would apply the
honor code to the Bic pens that
we see lying on various tables
and desks around campus.
Now, if I pick up someone else’s
pen and use it, I am guilty of an
honor offense under this defini-
tion. Therefore, the only
available penalty, that of expul-
sion, will be meted out on me. If
I am a senior, I lose the money
invested in my education (over
$20,000) plus the opportunity
lost of not having a degree. A

fine of $20,000 or more for steal-
ing a pen is unfair by anyone’s
standards. Isn’t due process of
law denied in the imposition of
such a penalty. Under ques-
tionable procedures? A group of
18-21 year olds has meted out
this earth-shaking penalty.
They bar me from classes until
I am proven innocent. They
serve as judge, jury and pro-
secutor. They impose ‘cruel
and unusual!” punishment.

Will the EC still find me guilty

’ if I pick up someone else’s pen,

thinking it is my own? Will the
EC believe me when I say I
thought it was my pen? If I
make an unknowing inadver-
tent mis-statement am I guilty
of a lie? Will the Executive

W&L Honor System Needs Critical Review

By TOM CONNORS

The Honor System, it is
unarguable, provides the W&L
community with immense bene-
fits. These benefits, from
unlocked buildings and self-
scheduled exams to our ‘‘com-
munity of trust,” are well
known to all who go here. To
abolish the Honor System would
be an unfortunate break with
the past with even more unfor-
tunate results. Yet to place the
Honor System on the level of the
Bible and above the Constitu-
tion as unalterable and infalli-
ble would show more emotional

bias than reason. As we are an
intellectual institution, ques-
tioning and rational argument
exist as a fundamental part of
our nature. It is with these ideas
in mind, with careful respect
and a historian’s awe for age,
that I approach the Honor
System.

The Honor System has its
origins in the presidency of
Robert E. Lee. While it is not
quite from Mount Sinai then, it
is ‘‘a damn close thing.”’ This is
precisely as it should be;
among XIXth Century Ameri-
cans, a more _ stainless
character is difficult to find.
Lee’s administration defined
the Honor System loosely:

The discipline has been placed
upon that basis on which it is
believed experience has shown it
can be most safely trusted — upon
the honor and self-respect of the
students themselves.

We have hardened the quote
into three ‘don'ts’: Lying,
Cheating and Stealing. The
definition is succinct, simple,
and effective. Following these
guidelines, a man should find it
difficult to cross the bounds of
honor. Yet it is hardly impossi-
ble and certainly quite im-
aginable for a man to become
dishonorable while remaining
in the bounds of the Honor
System. Likewise, Truth is bet-

ter withheld by a gentleman on
rare occasions. For instance, I
don’t find a doctor dishonorable
because he fails to inform a
mother in critical condition of
her baby’s demise. This is an
extreme example, but less
dramatic occasions are not un-
common. Thus truth must be
used by a gentleman with
discretion; the key factor is the
unselfishly, sincerely, and
thoughtfully derived considera-
tion of the other’s well-being.
Thus, in terms of the strictly
defined system, Honor escapes
and is relative. For this reason,
we have need for a court set-up
to unbiasedly determine the
often fine line between the
selfless gentleman and the self-
justified, self-concerned liar.

Committee believe me when I
say that I did not intend those
remarks, or believed them to be
true? I wish I could answer
these questions with some
assurance that the EC would be
fair. Yet, when I think of the
possibility of an honor trial
about a 29* Bic pen, and no EC
member can deny this possibili-
ty, given the views expressed
by Mr. Vlahoplus, I wonder
about the fairness of our
system. Can we talk about it?

'T.Vile, MJC, ‘‘Constitu-
tionalism and the Separation of
Poters” (Oxford, Clarendon
Press, 1969,) p.208.

The main physical problem
with the present set-up is the
lack of a prosecution at the EC
trial. The EC acts as jury as
well as being expected to in-
vestigate the violation and call
and question witnesses. The dif-
ficulty is not, then, ina lack of a
prosecution, but in the semantic
neverneverland which claims
there is. I have no wish to ques-
tion or defame the motives of
the EC, of which I have neither
insight nor information. How-
ever, a_ rational conclusion
drawn from this system is that
they who have investigated and
played Devil’s Advocate pro-
bably have formed unconscious
biases on the situation. Again,
this is not malice on their part,

(continued on page 6)
Page 6, Excelsior, March 31, 1983

 

 

Honor

(continued from page 5)
but simply the inevitable devel-
opment of spending time study-
ing a situation. Indeed, to argue
otherwise would be insulting,
that is, that the EC do not use
their minds. The problem lies
not in the EC’s thinking, but
rather in their judging. Since
they are so well informed and
versed in the system, they are
invaluable for the purpose of in-
vestigation and _prosectuion.
Likewise, the president or some
other officer should make an ex-
cellent judge, acting as unbias-
ed mediator and self-restrained
advisor to the jury on the
technicalities of the Honor
Code. By having a randomly
selected jury, we would avoid
both the natural bias of a. pro-
secution as well as the com-
plicated political structure of a
group as closely-knit as the EC.

Deeper, more theoretical
questions arise also. The uni-
versity is a place to grow, to
learn, and to change —physical-
lly, intellectually, and spiritual-
ly, This is our ideal. Certainly
many graduates, I hope, look
back on their freshman year
and discover that the person
who started here was radically
different from the one who
graduated. Maturation is a pro-
cess of change and develop-
ment. Our intellectual and
social community, we hope,
promotes this. One enters a boy
and leaves a man.

 
  
 

 

 
  

oa im Laurie.

 

wi [ LA

 

EXCELSIOR
The Journal of

FOCUS

Chris Bouquet .....
Bill Archer.......

    
  

Special thanks to Ring-tum Phi editor
Bill Roberts, and David W. Johnston and

 

Change is frightening though.
Man’s fear of the unknown is
deep-rooted. To change is to
venture onto untrodden paths.
We hold back, hanging onto our
flawed defenses as well as our
strengths. I think we can argue
that an honor violation is the
result of a character flaw. At
W&L, such a flaw is deemed an
extremely important one, as in-
deed it is. Yet when we find
such a flaw, our reaction is to
wash our hands of the in-

dividual entirely. It is a Botany.

Bay system; instead of
attempting to exorcise the stu-
dent’s demon, we tell him to
take his demon and go. What
happens to him is not our con-
cern. He had his chance, and he
blew it. Our concern then is with
the system and its principles.
This is, in the words of the great
English historian A.J.P.
Taylor:

‘‘.the most horrible, and
perhaps the most universal, of
human maladies: the belief that
principles and doctrines are
more important than lives.’’

The problem is_ precisely
this. We claim to be a
small, individual-orientated

school, yet we place our prin-
ciples and rules over the in-
dividual. In my mind, our size is
a more important part of our
school than the Honor System.
Instead of using our small size

. Chairman
. Editor

 
   

 

 

 

to concern ourselves with en-
couraging and promoting
positive growth in the flawed in-
dividual, we purge him and
throw him out. The community
is all-important; it provides
identity and security. Man can-
not exist without it. The great
and theoretical institution goes
on; the individual, well, we
claim no responsibility for him.

An older tradition and tie our
school has, is with Christianity.
Albeit, we are now a secular
school, but no need exists to
purge the school of all its tradi-
tions. We still have a chapel and
a chaplain; certainly the
gentler, basic ideals of Christ
may survive after the loss of
militant codes (such as those
used by the Spanish Inquisi-
tion. )

I have so far made a plea for
mercy, yet I do realize blanket
mercy must destroy the Honor
System and its benefits. Thus
we must temper mercy with
justice. When it is argued that a
weighing of dishonorable acts
will destroy the “‘community of
honor” that exists, we fail to
take into proper perspective the
effects of expulsion on the in-
dividual’s life. Theoretically, a
student may be thrown out for
taking a Kleenex without ask-
ing. Yet we realize that this is a
ridicuous conclusion. We
recognize that honor lies
somewhere deeper than the
simplicity of the Honor Code.

The three defined offenses are
simple and useful, but they
must be tempered with careful
judgment. The punishment may
need to outweight the offense in
order to enact a Pavlovian
change, but it should not have
the effect of seeming too great
for the offense, such as Kafka’s
childhood memory of being put
out in the rain. This produces
anger, resentment, and self-
pity rather than change (as in
Burgess’ or Kubrick’s ‘“‘A
Clockwork Orange’’). Thus
wouldn’t failing every class ina
trimester for cheating produce
the same result, or even a more
positive one than expulsion
does?

The reasons we need to
temper our judgments run even
shallower. The Honor System is
no place for personal vendettas.
I think probably anyone here
could find an example of an
H.V. in the history of a friend’s
actions. But we do not turn
them in, nor do we (necessari-
ly) think them dishonorable.
This is the sense of tempered
justice I think is called for. Iam
not suggesting an investigation
of the accuser. That is un-
necessary, for vindictiveness is
difficult to contain and impossi-
ble to hide; it will show itself.
There exists also a sense of
distaste for the accuser in the
community, which I think is
relatively healthy. The Honor
System is no place for anything

except careful, reasoned, and
well-considered judgment.

We know honor cannot be
measured by rules or codes:
this is why we have a trial
system. We know what honor is
(in Potter Stewart’s phrase: “‘I
know it when I see it...’’), but
we are unable to pinpoint it. To
define honor is to limit the
limitless. For this reason we
need to reflect seriously over
judgments of honor; the conse-
quences are immense: our
abilities are quite lacking in
comparison. Indeed, at our age,
it is rather presumptous to feel
our limited experience enables
us to judge anyone’s honor at
all. We need to approach these
decisions as if we were ap-
proaching God: fearful, inex-
perienced, humble, and unsure
of our abilities. Not to do so is
the greatest insult to the system
of all.

To change the system is not
necessarily to weaken it. As any
insightful historian realizes, to
cling to the past because it is the
past is to stagnate ‘‘ ’Tisn’t ho-
ly...merely old’’). To rush blind-
ly forward is to invite disaster.
To reasonably determine what
is foundation and what is rub-
bish may not preclude
mistakes, but it’s the best we
mortals can do.

Responsible Journalism

BY FRANK JACKMAN

For a vocation more or less
priding itself on independence
the thought of accountability to
anyone or anything is a touchy
subject. On a gut level, account-
ability brings to mind censor-
ship, prior restraint, and a host
of other evils. Further analysis
reveals that, to some extent, the
collective fears of journalists
are justified. But on the other
hand, there is much to be said
for a responsible press and the
advantages it would bring for
everyone involved.

It seems to me that efforts to
‘“‘guarantee’’ responsible press
performances are doomed to
failure from the outset. The
word guarantee has a
regulatory ring to it.
‘“‘Guaranteeing’’ responsible
press performance would seem
to require rules and regulations
to use as methods of fullfilling
the guarantee. Placing restric-
tions on performance to ensure
the guarantee could never be
accepted by journalists, con-
stantly wary of such limita-
tions. Responsible performance
would have to be defined to such
a degree as to possibly inhibit

the freedom of the press to
unacceptable levels.

The value to be placed on
news councils, ombudsmen,
and the like is variable. I would
maintain that such organiza-
tions and institutions are
susceptible to regional pre-
judices and values thus making
them more valuable on a local
level than on the national level.
There is something to be said
for these organizations on a
local or regional level. It seems
that guidelines enacted, if any,
would be easier to enforce or
oversee on a local level basis
simply because smaller units
are easier to handle. Also, local
organizations and institutions
would be more sensitive to local
peculiarities and needs thus
providing a more relevant ser-
vice.

Conversely, local organiza-
tions providing specialized
guidelines may further frag-
ment the trade and ultimately
the public. A spectrum full of
varying versions on _ press
responsibility and performance
could harm the credibility of
journalism more than help it. It
would be analogous to the early

years of this country’s history
when each state or colony had
its own currency leading to
chaos when it came time for in-
terstate commerce.

Then who should have a voice
in determing press responsibili-
ty and performance? Most peo-
ple would discount the gover-
ment for various reasons.
Others would argue that the
public should have a major
voice. While this is true to some
extent one must consider the
nature of our laws. They reflect
the values and prejudices of our
society or the general public.
Too much public voice in the
matter would be tantamount to
inviting the goverment in to
regulate the industry. There is
much to be said for involving
journalism schools in the pro-
cess. But they would have only
limited effect as can be
demonstrated by the ratio of
practicing journalists to those
journalists who attended some
sort of journalism school.

What is needed is a combina-
tion of all these things working
on a national and regional] level.
Support must come from the
academic world as well as the
world of the journalist.
Excelsior, March 31, 1983, Page 7

 

 

Liberation in the Land

By CHRIS FULTON

The debate over an en-
vironmental ethic has recently
achieved prominence on the
political agenda of the United
States. In the past, use of the en-
vironment was chiefly a ques-
tion of economic feasability. Of
course, more is at stake than
economic value. The welfare of
the environmental area itself,
that is the lives of all plants and
animals on it is affected
adversely by exploitation. The
complex ecological interde-
pendence of the world is
tampered with, a consequence
our children will have to
somehow live with. Also the
aesthetic value of the land itself
and the enjoyment of it by us
and future generations is
forever taken away.

These are the factors which
enter in to decisions about en-
vironmental protection. Econo-
mic and environmental _in-
terests battle for lesser and
greater degrees of protection
and. regulation. But the for-
mulation of a definitive, com-
prehensive national enironmen-

oom New

By NORM BALL

If there is a quote which best
paraphrases the major the-
oretical rift within the French
New Wave film movement of

the late fifties, it might be the.

cry of existentialist despair in
Sartre’s “La Nausee: “We are in

the way.” In his obsession with.

discarding the montage
theories of the Russian film
school, Andre Bazin (the foun-
ding editor of ‘Cahiers du
Cinema”’ and spiritual father of
the “cinema of truth’), en-
couraged the use of ‘‘non-
manipulative’’ film techniques

such as the stationary camera >

and the long scene. This theory,
however, betrays an inadequate
understanding of the nature of
the camera. For far from being
a merely voyeurastic element
of the reality it presents. As
Eisenstein points out, the mere
imposition of the quadrilateral

“lens upon the diffuseness of
nature constitutes a fundamen-
tal conflict — a dialectic — in
which the original subject mat-
ter is inalterably transformed.
Obtrusiveness, in short,
becomes an inevitable legacy of
film.

Perhaps the most articulate
critic/director to emerge from
the New Wave in opposition to
Bazin is the the French director
Jean Luc Godard. A student of
Cartesian philosophy, Godard

   

= ROWENTA
af CTs, Sa

IG tmaretasa Rees s SWeapicare-

tal policy will never occur
under the present regulative
framework. Government policy
will sway toward more or less
regulation, and exhibit regional
idiosyncracies as long as it is
debated in the political arena.
Environmental policy must be
formulated, then put into a legal
framework rather than a
political one.

  

Environmental protection in
the U.S. today is regulatory.
The agent of regulation is the
Enviornmental Protection A-
gency. The EPA is a political
agency. Its policies change with

presidential administrations
and under the pressure of lob-
byists. Thus for better or for
worse, the strictness of regula-
tion enforcement has been less

 

    

under Watt and the Reagan ad-
ministration.

Land — and the life on it — is
viewed as property. Property is
something one exploits for
economic profit whether it be
land, slaves, or widgets.
Regardless of any degree or
strictness of regulation the en-
vironment will be exploited.
Black slaves in the United

States were economically ex-
ploited until they were given
legal rights and were able to
uphold them. How well or
harshly they were treated by
their masters did not matter —
they were being exploited to one
or another degree.

Likewise the environment
should be given legal status.
The environment could take you
or your business to court if you
violated its rights, suing in a
court of law for reparation of
damages. Such a legal frame-
work would be an enormous im-
provement over regulatory
measures decided by the
political battle between econo-
mic utility and environmental
utility. The national parks are
an excellent example of such a
legal framework albeit a strict
“off limits’ one. With land and
space becoming more scarce,
all land should be given some
type of legal status. Constitu-
tional amendments might be a
good idea although it is doubtful
that the rights of the environ- —
ment would be _ inalienable
—they could not override
human rights But at least the
welfare of the environment
would be respected and upheld.

Wave and Godard gee

displays in his films an almost
innate sense of the problems in-
herent in the Cartesian sub-
ject/object model. In his first
film, Breathless A Bout de Souf-
fle ’59), Godard, through the
guise of a gangster movie, ex-
plores some fascinating theo-
retical questions about film. His
major contribution to film
theory, and, in fact his major
preoccupation within
Breathless, is in a recognition of
subjective “mind’s eye,’’ and
the objects as portrayed on the
screen. This he does by turning
the camera upon itself, that is,
the film becomes an object to
itself, or in other words the sub-
ject matter is enlarged to in-
clude the camera itself. In one
scene for instance, the main
character actually ‘“‘converses”’
with the camera as it sits in the
passenger seat of his car. Thus
the camera becomes a charac-
ter in the film. Its role becomes
explicitly participatory.

This phenomenon of self-
referentiality in films is refer-
red to by Christian Metz as dou-
ble mirror construction, or in-
escutcheon construction. In
becoming the object of its own
scrutiny, this kind of film
creates the illusion of limitless
space (en abyme), in which, as
in two mirrors facing each
other, the reflections of both the
exterior film and its interior
counterpart reflect one another
ad infinitum. These films are
among the ‘‘black holes’’ of art,

rich in an apparently limitless
display of metaphor and
allegory.

In self-referential films such
as Breathless, the form (film)
becomes’ largely _in-
distinguishable from the con-
tent (film). This notion cor-
responds to the Jamesian belief
that, artistically form and con-
tent are inseparable. Attempts
to suggest prescribed forms
(e.g. the moral didacticism of
James’ contemporary, William
Dean Howells) destroy or
detotalize the artistic effort. In
such a conceptual scheme, the
critic (i.e. the objective eye)
preceeds the artist (the subjec-
tive eye). With the introduction
of this subject/object schism,
elements of both time and space
invade the work. Immediacy,
immanence, and timelessness
yield to a sense of duration.

Of course, for any work of art
to be successful, it must con-
front, within itself, the problem
of time. In The Republic, for ex-
ample, Plato builds the ideal
state only to systematicly
dismantle it in the latter half of
the dialogue. For Plato, then,
art capitulates to time, but on
its own terms. And yet, such a
work of art acheives at least a
thematic timelessness. This is
because, containing the seeds of
its own demise, its destruction
becomes self-contained, en-
folding within the work itself.
As Wallace Stevens notes in

“The Statue at the World’s
End” “All things destroy
themselves or are destroyed.”’
With destruction the legacy of
existence, self-destruction
becomes an artistic imperative.

In Breathless, the two-bit
gangster Michel, is represen-
tative of a myriad of roles sur-
rounding the film. He is
Belmondo the serious actor
struggling against a B-movie
Bogartesque mold as well as
Belmondo the man struggling to
escape the limitations imposed
upon his identity by Belmondo
the actor. In terms of the plot
there is Michel, the gangster,
running from the police. The
cohesive characteristic of all
these postures is that they are
anarchic, of course, and if there
is an overarching theme to this
multi-layered conflict, it is
man’s struggle against the
limits of his existence.

Yet despite Belmondo’s ef-
forts to escape the film, the
camera relentlessly tracks him
up the street in the final scene,
determined to seal its conclu-
sion with his death. It is clear
though that the B-movie genre
has been seriously damaged as
Michel staggers up the street
with a bullet in his back. Absent
is the time-worn shoot-out scene
or the fiery ambush. Thus, in
transcending the image of ‘‘the
dying gangster,”’ the formulaic
genre is broken, and a heighten-
ed sense of reality enters the
film. Belmondo’s struggle has

been a success in a partial
sense, at least; and in breaking
from its prior expectations im-
plicit in its genre, the film ar-
ranges its own thematic de-
struction.

In a further attempt to dilute
the Cartesian split, Godard in-
tersperses the object with the
subject. The appendages of film
— director, audience, actors,
that is, the subjective reality of
the film — are wed to the objec-
tive reality — the plot, the
characters — to form a greater
sense of unity. In the last few
scenes of the film, Michel’s
girlfriend (played by the late
Jean Seberg) assumes the role
of director, orchestrating the
conclusion of the film by reveal-
ing to the police’ the
whereabouts of the fugitive
Michel.

Similarly, Godard himself ap-
pears in one scene, ‘‘directing”’
a police car to the hotel in which
he saw Michel. In both the
Seberg and the Godard se-
quences, the forces of order
(i.e. the police) are invoked in
the interest of steering the film
to its proper end. In light of this,
there emerges another fun-
damental And equally import-
ant — conflict within the film,
and that is man’s struggle
against the strictures of art. In
the final scene, Michel is more
than a renegade from the Pari-
sian authorities. He is also a

fugitive of the directoral
(continued on page 10)
Page 8, Excelsior, March 31, 1983

 

 

The Nuclear Issue

By STEVE KEROS

Talk of nuclear war is
something constantly heard
about these days. Many
Americans conjure up visions
of a “Nuclear Button’ in
Washington and the Kremlin
that, if pressed, would quickly
reduce the earth to radioactive
rubble. People hear of the com-
bined capability of the United
States and the Soviet Union to
flatten the globe eight times
over and wonder why we
“must’’ spend hundreds of
billions of dollars to acquire
weapon systems like the MX,
Trident, and B-1 that serve no
apparently productive purpose.
Americans rightfully should
question the titanic expense and
real need for such weapons. But
they must make an objective at-
tempt at trying to understand
the rationale behind the acquisi-
tion of these armaments. A
basic understanding of the pre-
sent balance of forces between
the two superpowers is essen-
tial if the ordinary concerned
citizen is to talk about current
defense expenditures with any
degree of logic and coherence

whatsoever.

Many people wonder whether
there is any intelligence behind
the present buildup of a new
generation of U.S. nuclear
delivery systems. Laymen
often ask ‘‘Why must we con-

Just War

By MARKHAM SHAW PYLE

Author’s Note: As an
Anglican, I approach my sub-
ject from within the tradition of
the Church. I do not know of any
other religion having the body
of theory on the issue as does
the Church, but I imagine one
could easily be constructed for
each. For a comparison of the
ethics of the major religions I
direct the reader to C.S. Lewis’
“The Abolition of Man.” I find
him convincing in his proof that
there exists a basic Natural
Law to which all peoples at all
times have at least paid lip-
service; and this natural law I
imagine will yield the same
results in the regard of just war
theory as the dogma of Mother
Church.

The ethical difficulties sur-
rounding the prosecution of war
in a nuclear age I approach with
some trepidation. But the
remarkable amount of non-
sense being talked on the sub-
ject by many who know better
prompts me to make a few
points which appear, in the
parlous state of the discourse,
to have been overlooked. The
confusion is basic. Just war
theory is concerned with pro-
giniting the egregious use of
force. Pacifism renounces the
option of force. Many of the folk
claiming to find nuclear war un-

stantly try to ‘stay ahead’ of the
Russians in something as
ridiculous as an apparently
never-ending arms race, when
we already have so many
nuclear bombs already?’’ This
is a very reasonable question,
but it tends to ignore the many
myriad facets of the raison
d’etre for our nuclear forces.
The idea behind the existence of
American nuclear weapons,
both strategic and theatre/tac-
tical, is one of deterrence. The
object is to deter the other side
from any thought of aggression
by a preponderance or equality
of force on our side. If ‘‘they”’
know that we will not tolerate
threats to what is deemed as
our absolute vital interests, it is

reasoned, then (it is hoped)

peace will be preserved. But
this sort of strategy presumes,
at a minimum, a rough balance
or parity of forces (both
strategic and conventional).
Political ramifications also
play a large part in the deter-
mination of the role and (thus)
requirements of our strategic
posture. Western Europe de-
pends heavily on the USS.
nuclear umbrella; _ British
Tridents/vulcans and France’s
Force de Frappe notwithstand-
ing. Much of the Middle East
and ironically, China and even
Iran (!) depend to a significant

just are in fact opposed to the
use of coercive or defensive
force under any circumstances.

Von Clausewitz calls war ‘‘the
continuation of policy by other
means.’ This has been de-
nounced as a nasty, cynical, im-
moral statement. In fact, it has
a good deal in common with Au-
gustine’s claim in Ep. 189 (ad
Bonifacium) that war, to secure
peace or create a just secular
order, is proper as a last resort
of policy. Montesquieu, I
believe, said the same, and be-
tween Augustine’s time and his,
the statement had been made
regularly. In the world the con-
tinental Congresses of the 1770s
grounded their war against the
English usurper George III
upon such contentions. The
renunciation by Chamberlain
and the Western democracies of
arms as a means of securing the
peace of Europe directly entail-
ed the Holocaust, the agony of
war, and the need felt to aban-
don Eastern Europe to totali-
tarianism after the war as pay-
ment to the Soviets for defen-
ding soil they would have
defended in any case. Churchill
said truly of Neville Chamber-
lain that he had chosen shame
over war; “he has the shame,
and he will have war
nonetheless.’’ The point is that
Mother Church has always

extent on an American nuclear
guarantee of their sovereignty
from Soviet encroachment. The
success of American Foreign
Policy in the Third World de-
pends heavily on the perceived
image of American strength,
militarily as well as morally.
The cohesion of our various
alliances, especially NATO,
depends greatly upon the
resolve of the U.S. to protect her
friends through thick and thin.
The will to use any measure
necessary to preseve our com-
mitments and responsibilities
inevitably requires a strong and
comprehensive military pos-
ture. And finally, in dealing
with the soviets, a reasonable
agreement can only be reached
with them if we negotiate from
a position of strength or equali-

ty. i
To understand the much
discussed theory of ‘‘parity’’ or

refused the pacifist cup because
to fail to resist evil is to abet it.
Pacifism in the face of injustice
is facilitation. Kant, you will
recall, points out that he who
wills the end wills the means.
That is, if the end, however
laudable, necessitates the
unavoidable use of immoral
means, it is wrong to will that
end. Equally, if we damn an
end, we are obligated to in-

terfere with the means of its in--

stitution. To allow injustice
scope for action is as wrong as
to promote injustice deliberate-
ly. (The consequences of this to
“liberation theology” I leave
the reader to consider. )

So pacifism, the renunciation
of force across the board is out
of court. Just war theory, we
have said, is concerned with the
improper use of force. We have
just seen that the end of war
may be so desirable as to make
war a moral obligation. But
does the capacity inherent in to-
day’s engines of mass destruc-
tion constitute a necessarily
wrong substance? Are nuclear
weapons, simply in virtue of
their being nuclear, immoral

strategic balance, one must
begin to understand the present
set-up of our nuclear forces.
The U.S. strategic deterrent is
based on the concept of the
“Triad.” A combination of air,
sea, and land forces are com-
bined into a massive force
hopefully capable of deterring
any attack. Up to now, the
United States has relied on the
idea of Mutual Assured De-
struction (MAD) between the
U.S. and the U.S.S.R. to keep
the peace. If either side launch-
ed an attack on the other (first
strike), the side originally at-
tacked would still have enough
power left to deliver a crushing
retaliatory blow. This is why we
have a seemingly excess num-
ber of submarines and bombers
in addition to missiles; if the
Soviets struck at our missiles,
we could still fire back with our
presently invulnerable sub-

under all circumstances?

They are not. Like any other
weapon, they are used im-
morally when they are used by
an aggressor. Just war theory is
clear in prohibiting the use of an
ounce, much less a megaton, of
unnecessary power. But it

allows to the defender sufficient «

means whereby he may defend
himself. Given the official and
semi-official Soviet pro-
nouncements on the subject of
nuclear winnability, the
democracies have no choice but
to adopt a deterrent posture of
sufficient force that, if the worst
comes, they may defend them-
selves. Obviously, if every na-
tion or international actor
behaved themselves, nuclear
weaponry would never be used
offensively, and therefore could
be dispensed with defensively
also. But we have no encourage-
ment to believe that this will
soon befall.

In the early 1960s, the United
States on the grounds that our
weapons were sufficiently po-
tent and precise to be used spar-
ingly, renounced the option of
hitting non-military targets.

marines and (to a lesser extent)
bombers. ;

This “MAD” concept is only
one of many theories that con-
template the various possibili-
ties for the use of nuclear
weapons in case of hostilities. It
is important to keep in mind,
however, that the various ‘‘op-
tions” that these plans provide
are only options. In the event of
a nuclear exchange, nobody
really knows if any sort of
nuclear battle plan would work.
But it is far, far better to have
some kind of plan to fight a
nuclear war, if the,unthinkable
happened, than to have no idea
at all on what to do. To have a
policy of “massive retaliation’
is no real policy at all. Ex-
cluding any possibility of con-
trolled escalation would force
the superpowers into the most
bloodthirsty strategy of a

(continued on page 9)

 

This is in complete accord with
the urgings of the Fathers. Mr.
Kruschev replied by announc-
ing the Soviet strategy of
targeting Detroit, Dallas, Des
Moines Mutual Assured
Destruction is immoral. It holds
the citizens, the civilian popula-
tion, of both nations hostage.
Unfortunately, the only moral
alternative for the U.S. is a
defensive posture of such over-
whelming force that the Soviets
would have no hope of launch-
ing an attack. Jackson Browne,
Fritz Mondale, and that insuf-
ferable Wm. Sloan Coffin would
have apoplexy. Which may be a
second advantage.

On the subject of deterrence:
“Doonesbury” a famous car-
toon, just in passing, defined
deterrence as the threat of ag-
gression. This has done sub-
stantial harm. Aggression and
deterrence are precisely not
identifiable. Deterrence means
to pre-empt the aggressor by
threatening a _ defensive
response. That is in no wise
identifiable with the unjust
posture of the attack.

(continued on page 9)
Excelsior, March 31, 1983, Page 9

 

 

Aresponse from one who has ‘disappeared’

A couple of weeks ago in the
Ring-tum Phi there was an
editorial about ‘‘los desa-
pericidos’’ — those students
who in the prime of their
academic career suddenly drop
out. They rarely leave school
per se but simply disappear
from the academic scene. Why?
I cannot speak for others only
because I have found few others
who have ‘dropped out’ for
quite the same reasons as I
have. However I do not doubt
that many of us share the same
underlying sense of confusion,
contradiction and betrayal.

Simply, college has not lived
up to my expectations. I came
here to grow-up. That is, I was
sure that here in college that I
would assimilate those values
requisite for a mature and
responsible adulthood. High
school had been fruitful but
primarily as a last hurrah for
adolescent freedoms. College
has from the start been a con-
tinuation of that experience. In
high school that experience was
rich, expansive and healthy. It
no longer is.

I thought I would inherit
America’s democratic legacy. I
anticipated the discovery of
true freedom and that its mean-
ing was identical to respon-
sibility. No. What we mostly in-

Reflections on a

The plethora of dogmas and
philosophies which exist to give
men a structure for his life-

environment emphasize in their .

variety and incompatibility the
absurdity of man’s existence. In
man’s search for meaning, he is
able to find whatever he looks
for wherever he looks. The
tricks and subtleties of man’s
subconscious logic free him
from objectivity in order to
allow his erection of a com-
prehensible outlook, giving his
life meaning. This is a denial of
the absurdity of man’s ex-
istence, a hard fact to absorb
without painful blows to the
self’s ego as well as to the race’s
collective ego. The hopeless-
ness of man’s situation, the bit-
ter paradoxes, and irrecon-
cilable ironies await the spirit
just ahead of periods of content-
ment and satisfaction.

The spirit begins with a few
basic needs which quickly ex-
pand into a multitude of needs,
never answered, ever growing.
Needs spring from the original
needs in such a way as to
disguise the ‘“‘bottom line’
needs. Needs are met and peel-
ed away while the basic needs
are protected by new-sprung
needs. The basic needs are held
within the spirit’s deepest
fears: far too tender and painful
to touch oneself, much too terri-
ble to show to others. These
may never be accepted or fill-
ed; they gnaw at self-confi-

herit is our fathers’ mind-set.
Here at W&L I discovered class
differentiation is based solely
on economics with disregard to
moral and ethical systems. The
lesson I learned long ago from
my grandparents was that the
rich are temporary custodians
of society’s wealth and are
bound by that understanding to
wisely invest so that society and
family can share the dividends.
The individual motivated by
materialism does not figure
here. Indeed such a person is
antithetical. This has not been
reinforced by my experience
among the elite who
characterize W&L. Also for the
first time I have come to
understand America as a racist
nation. Not emphatically but
pervasively and silently as in
the attitudes of my colleagues.
Previously shielded by liberal
rhetoric and the multi-racial
mixture of my family I had
never accepted this. In college I
have witnessed the integration
of prejudice and moreover, its
propagation. The myth of a con-
temporary and_ relevant
noblesse oblige and the stagger-
ing realization of racism in
society were the earliest of
many disappointments here at
W&L.

I have also come here to

dence and may be felt as the ut-
ter hollowness and emptiness
within one’s torso. Self-
confidence must be delusion: a
glossing over. Letting down the
delusion’s defense system in-
volves a massive destruction of
personal mythology. This
causes great pain.

If there is a single Truth
—and the absurdest of absurd-
ities, the most biting of ironies
and the deepest of paradoxes is
that one may very well exist
—can we find it? Whether it
does exist is debatable and
whether it is possible to know it
when one arrives at it — if one
can arrive at it or whether one
is simply deluded once again —
these are the barriers to cer-
titude.

The path through the un-
known to the Truth — if such a
path or destination exists at all
— must be one of pain and suf-
fering. For example, the first of
Buddha’s ‘‘Four Noble Truths’”’
is ‘Life is suffering.”’ Pain is
the purist sign of growth, ex-
perience and change. If the
Truth exists, it exists within, or
perhaps behind, the oldest,
deepest needs, fears, and pains
which exist deep within the
black hole of the spirit. To des-
cend from the comfort of the
reason and its part of the spirit
through the hellish rings of the
torso’s spiritual hole is more
terrible than the darkest of
Poe’s fiction. Whether it is
possible to bear the pain

learn. W&L advertises itself as
a liberal-arts teaching college.
This is wonderful and in fact
W&L works hard to live up to it.
Unfortunately it is rife with
pedantry. In the philosophy
department I discovered pro-
fessors so caught up in the
drama of their own particular
revelations that they have no

student must struggle alone for
academic verity and equilib-
rium.

Isn’t college also a forum for
the free exchange of ideas? In
my years here I have never
witnessed a truly spontaneous
and intellectually rigorous
discussion. As our professors
harvest the tree of knowledge to

 

‘ ..pervasive anxiety drives
one to the only common and
revealing W&L experience —
drug addiction.”’

appreciation for the value of
any student’s insight. In the
politics department they are
concerned largely with the
maintenance of myths. In
economics it is myth-making.
This is not to derogate the great
professors W&L does pos-
sess, even in the depart-
ments mentioned, but only to il-
lustrate the extent to which a

 

disseminate for a fee so we pick
at their own unleavened minds
for the sustenance of what
passes for intellectual
discourse. Few professors pass
on the tools by which they
discern truth from its imitators.
It is dogma. We learn by rote.

In this space I will not at-
tempt to seek solutions to these
problems. I only want to point

rainy week

throughout the descent to the
demon gnawing away at bottom
is debatable. The final absurdi-
ty may well be that the search
and possible discoveries of
Truth are the means of ex-
ploding security, leaving only
the end of self-destruction. The
search for Truth leaves one in-
creasingly alone, defying the
essentiz] human need for com-

- panionship. The loneliness pro-

vides the hardest pain to get
through (at least the hardest
foreseeable pain), if one can get
through it at all.

The mystic claims that his
search for Truth is a deepening
relationship with God and is

Issue

(continued from page 8)

“single cosmic roll of the dice.”’

Thus it may be seen that there
are many different factors
which affect the formulation of
American nuclear policy and
thus of the present arms build-
up. It is not simply a matter of
how many times we can destroy
each other. Political factors
play a large part in the develop-
ment and deployment of nu-
clear arms, as in the current
controversy involving the
deployment of cruise missiles
and Pershing II’s as another
rung on the “escalatory ladder’
in Western Europe. Theories
concerning the conduct of
nuclear war often seem to be

thus able to overcome this. Can
God be treated as above doubt
though? Is there undeniable
empirical or rational evidence
for certitude? Can the question
of whether God is a crutch ever
be conclusively answered? In
any case, the closer mystics
come to God, the weaker they
become. One reaches the
nearest union with God, decays,
and dies (for example, the
cases of Francis, Aquinas and
Merton).

Another paradox is_ the
possibility, highly probable,
that a man who has reached the
Truth and overcome, if it is

exercises in polemics. That
doesn’t mean that the average
person should dismiss the issue
with a wave of the hand. Issues
such as the current nuclear
buildup affect the citizenry
directly, via the huge costs
borne by taxpayers, as well as
the chance that one day all
these weapons may be used.
The American people should
take the time to consider the
various consequences of the re-
cent military strengthening,
both good and bad, because the
American people are the ones
who are paying for it. A person
has very little right to discuss
these issues if he knows
relatively little or nothing about
them.

out a few greater disappoint-
ments. Because of these I have
‘disappeared.”’ College is not
enlightenment. It is for me a
source of despair and resigna-
tion. It has mocked my duties as
a citizen and stripped away any
pretension of social respon-
sibility. After all isn’t W&L
where we last pay homage to
honor and first discover that it
is bogus? I think that most will

- understand me when I say that

honor does not exist at W&L.
That vision of a W&L gentleman
bequeathed by the unsurpassed
Robert E. Lee is the most pain-
ful myth of all.

For this and more life, at
W&L has lost attraction. My
days are filled with cynicism,
restlessness and even bit-
terness. I feel betrayed by my
heritage and by reality. I
understand now that knowledge
holds no moral imperative. This
I had long thought to be a
distinguishing trait of man. It
seems more to be the founda-
tion of instinct rather than the
random impulse by which we
are motivated. Aspiration and
faith were inconveniences
quickly and surely shed
freshman year. Flippancy and
gregariousness replace them
before giving in to apathy and

(continued on page 10)

possible to do so, his pained
loneliness, will he be able to
communicate the Truth or
anything besides alienation? Or
will he be rejected as is the
philosopher in Plato’s cave
allegory? Does the truth make
one free from human relation-
ships — the very parts of our
lives we treasure and live for?
Is the victory of Truth a defeat
of self? The search to under-
stand oneself and transcend it
may easily lock one either
within the self or out of the com-
munity. Does the utter absurdi-
ty of existence reach into the
heights and depths of man’s
struggle for meaning? —

God

(continued from page 8)

It is possible to fight a just
nuclear war. It is, that is to say,
possible to wage a war, no mat-
ter with what weaponry, in a
morally justifiable manner and
for an end which is bonum in se.
But it is better not to need to;
and that is the real and laudable
purpose of the armories in the
West. Fallen man has never liv-
ed in peace through will. But a
major war has been avoided for
an anomalously long time by
the Balance of Terror. And we
are free...so far.

Just a few points, not a final
word. But I hope it clears up
some muddy thinking. Deo Op-
tima Maxima.
Page 10, Excelsior, March 31, 1983

 

 

Compassion and the Republican Party

By CHRIS BOUQUET

How many of the
beneficiaries of Reagan’s 1981
tax cut would be willing to
sacrifice some of that tax break
to the unemployed who suffer
because of that tax cut? All
Americans should ask them-
selves the question that JFK
suggested we ask, namely,
‘What can I do for my coun-
try?’ Ronald Reagan, while
trumpetting the above idea, is
actually making a cruel end-run
around the American problem.
He is using the ‘‘trickle-down”’
theory as a screen, while main-
taining the interest of the
business community and the
very rich above the interests of
all the people of the U.S. The
richest have done little for their
country in the tragic recession
the U.S. is suffering. Yet, they
have taken much. Have they
taken their tax breaks with an
enthusiasm spurred by the cer-
tain knowledge that this money
will ‘trickle down’”’ to the least
fortunate among us? The
answer is no. They have taken
with greed, as Reagan’s own
budget director pointed out in
the Atlantic Monthly interview.
Government intrusion in the
economy has not decreased.
Reagan, who decries the
Democrats as deficit spenders,
is amassing the largest budget
deficits of all time. The
“crowding out effect’? means
massive governmental intru-
sion in the pool of available
funds. Recovery may be a
mirage if businesses cannot
borrow at reasonable rates due
to a shortage of money. In any
case, those least able to afford
privation, the working class,
will be beset by unacceptably
high unemployment for the
foreseeable future. If unem-
ployment falls to 9 percent — is
this level of human suffering ac-
ceptable? The administration

has allowed big companies to
pollute the land with impunity.
It has completely alienated, as
George Will said recently in the
Post, blacks who make up 11
percent of the population. In
1980, as Will points out,
Democrats got 86 percent of the
black vote. There is no reason to
expect it will be lower in 1984.
At the height of the recession, 11
percent of the work force faced
the grim reality of unemploy-
ment. The Reagan administra-
tion, laughed out of Washington
by congressmen with consti-
tuents out of work. Reagan has
attempted to gut federal aid to
low and middle income college
students, denying equality of
opportunity, a concept he
hypocritically touts. He has
frightened the American peo-
ple, most of whom support a
reasonable defense increase,
through dangerous saber-
rattling talk about the Soviets.
Where steady leadership in the
face of a universally recognized
threat is necessary, he offers
hysteria and fear. His leader-
ship is the cause of the nuclear
freeze movement, not Soviet in-
filtration. The nuclear sword of
Damocles hangs over the heads
of the American people. Young
couples can well wonder about
the kindness of bringing new
life into the world. As Jesus
said, woe on us all the day when
women bless their infertility.
Ronald Reagan has gone after
such ‘‘wasteful programs” as
the Center for Disease Control,
school lunches for hungry
children, child nutrition pro-
grams, legal aid for the poor,
grants for education, funds for
the elderly and the sick. All of
this adds up to an over-riding
concern for all the people of the
U.S. Only the poorest are called
to ask JFK’s question.

Apart from a certain mean-
ness, the Reagan administra-
tion is not serving the interests
of the U.S. by gutting education.
What better way to protect the

Dear Readers,

Thank you for your interest in
“Excelsior.’’ This spring, if all
goes well, we will devote ‘Ex-
celsior’’ to the issue of tech-
nology and the future: what are
the ethical dimensions of new
advances in- medical
technology? What are the
political, social and psycholog-
ical effects of the high-tech ex-
plosion? What effect will ad-
vances in military technology
have on the balance of power
between the U.S. and the Soviet
Union? What coming human
struggles will be mirrored in
the literature? The list of possi-
ble essay topics could go on and
on. The issue of Technology and
the Future is both compelling

and current. Time, after all,
made a computer, man of the
year for 1982. In a_ recent
Washington Post interfiew,
most of the Democratic
Presidential candidates men-
tioned the necessity of dealing
with the impact of the high-tech
solution for the arms race is fur-
ther evidence of the importance
of this question. Students are
urged to submit articles on this
topic. Hopefully, Focus will
have a speaker on the topic, as a
supplement to the Excelsior, of
course, replies to articles in the
winter issue will be accepted.
However, the FOCUS in this
spring’s Excelsior will be on
technology and the future.
Sincerely,
Chris Bouquet

 

security of the U.S. than
through a well-educated public,

with any man able to better
himself through as much educa-

tion as he wants, with all

children receiving proper

education in elementary and
secondary schools, with as
much funding for extra cur-
ricular activities as possible?
Science and math must be push-
ed, as well as athletics. Neither
does the Reagan administration

serve the interests of the U.S.
by denying funds for research
and development. Some R and
D, which may lead to future
benefits, is simply not pro-
fitable in the short run.

The Republicans accuse the

Democrats of working for

“monolithic government.”’ Is it

asking for monolithic govern-

ment to say that none of our

citizens should go hungry? Is it
asking for monolithic govern-

ment to say none of our sick

should die because they cannot
afford adequate health care? Is

it asking for too much to ad-
vocate vigorous anti-trust en-
forcement, assuming capi-
talism is the type of economic
system we prefer? Is vigorous
protection of civil rights
overbearing governmental in-
trusion? Is it too much to ask
that defense spending be sub-
jected to the same investiga-
tions for fraud and waste that
social spending is? The govern-
ment is advancing the personal
interests of its leaders and their
clients, not the corporate in-
terests of all the people, to
whom the government owes its
existence. This is the problem.
Those who are affected can only
attempt to solve the problem
through political participation.
Students must be a part of this
political participation, as much
as blacks, the poor, the unem-
ployed, the middle class. The
richest already ‘‘participate”’
through the overbearing in-
fluence of their Political Action
Committees. No arrogant,

gtk tte tek

Raymond Aron begins his at-
tack on the French “‘leftwing’”’
intelligentsia (‘The Opiates of
the Intellectuals”) with Marx’s
famous assertion that “religion
is the opiate of the masses’’ and
goes on to identify Marxism as
the set of ideas which serves
much the same function for
many French (and other) in-
tellectuals. There are many
other ideas which serve as
opiates to the ‘thinking man”
— a short list might include
“science,” “progress,” “‘art,’’
etc. However, the question that
“needs” to be asked is ‘‘what’s
wrong with opiates?’

WHKKKK KKK

aristocratic Republican ad-
ministration should keep the
people down. Populist Republi-
canism has been shown in its
true light; as a lie and a con-
tradiction of terms. Freedom
must operate for everyone. I
challenge any Republican to
demonstrate his party’s con-
cern for all the people of the
United States. Political
theorists have long warned of
the fatal mistake made when
government starts to serve a
“selfish purpose.”’ Can any
Republican show how his party
does not serve a selfish pur-
pose? Does the Republican par-
ty serve the general purpose of
all the people? If so, why has it
alienated 11 percent of the
population, the black citizens of
this nation? In my opinion the
Democrats will best represent
the nation in our government.
This is not to say I agree with
my party on every issue.

I must oppose the Democratic
party when it advocates legaliz-
ed abortions. Though I agree
with him on few other matters’
President Reagan is right on
the mark when he advocates
“right to life’ for the unborn.
The 15 million abortions in the
U.S. since 1973 are the sign of a
sick society. But for those abor-
tions, 15 million children would
be alive today. Of course, the
quality of life argument will be
advanced by the pro-choicers:
“what quality of life would
these children have had, born
into poverty, or to young

_ mothers?” How arrogant for

any human to make judgments

Film

(continued from page 7)

authority of the film. But his
death cannot fall outside of the
film. Its success as a work of art
depends upon the death of its
main character. Also, its suc-
cess is dependent upon an aban-
donment of the gangster genre
— an apriori form imposed upon
the content from without (by
popular appeal, producer’s
demands or some other exter-
nal instruction). Breathless
succeeds on both counts.

Though Godard’s Breathless is
generally credited with being a
masterpiece, he has alienated
many with a preponderance
towards theoretics and a
disregard for sequence and plot
especially evident in his later
films. That his films are self-
conscious constructions seems
a fair assessment. But from this
self-consciousness, there
emerges an _ ever-increasing
awareness of the dynamics of
observation, and a growing
understanding of the complex
relationship between the
observer and the observed.
Film seems to be the ideal
medium for this study, and
Godard, a critic at heart, has
proven himself the ideal direc-
tor.

about the quality of life! Isn’t
that God’s decision? Does in-
convenience to a woman give
her the right to kill a helpless
living being? As President
Reagan has pointed out, fetal
pain is a scientific fact. Can
anyone maintain that some-
thing that feels pain is not
alive? The loss of this genera-
tion of 15 million Americans is
akin to the loss of a generation
in Europe after the two World
Wars. Unbelievably, we have
done it to ourselves. Birth con-
trol is an alternative. It
prevents pregnancy. It does not
kill an already living being.

I cannot agree- with any
Democrat who espouses legaliz-
ed abortion. This, however,
does not weaken my resolve to
participate through the
Democratic party, for the
reasons I stated above. The
argument for Reagan that says,
‘Well, compare him to the bum
we used to have,”’ no longer car-
ries weight. It is a shallow at-
tempt to avoid defending the
record of Ronald Reagan. The
issue is no longer ‘‘how bad
Jimmy Carter was.’’ The issue
is ‘‘how bad is_ Ronald
Reagan?”’ I will work within my
party to change opinions
through free debate, when I
disagree with my party.
Students should get behind the
political party they feel will
best represent the nation in the
government and do likewise. If
I disagree with you, lets debate.
Student activism is needed now

more than ever in_ these

dangerous times.

Disillusioned
(continued from page 9)

seclusiveness. Furthermore the
resultant, pervasive anxiety
drives one to the only common
and revealing W&L experience
of all — drug addiction.

To face contradiction I re-
main anesthetized. There are
not enough hours during the
week when I am straight to
make one day. It is ritual. Wake
up and bong hit; attend class,
then bong hit; eat lunch and
bong hit; then bong hits every
hour or so until mid-evening
when the booze begins to flow.
Not every day, but just about.
My primary joy is sensimilla in
all its wondrous varieties but
cocaine provides a_ special
pleasure undiminished several
hundred dollars later. I’ve
given up wintering with my
family or Washington Holiday
in the sun. My trips rarely take
me beyond my apartment. Of-
ten-times the entire party has
chartered a flight. This savings
in airfare means additional
ecstacy nasal-wise and extra
cash for forays into the sublime
worlds of quaaludes and cry-
stal. Detachment and _ its
maintenance characterize my
collegiate experience. I have
sought and and achieved obli-
vion. Signed,

Legion
 

 

Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983, Page 11

 

 

Schenker’ s heavy metal album
misses mark

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON
Entertainment Editor

Guitarist Michael Schenker
left UFO about three years ago
to start a solo career and form-
ed the Michael Schenker Group.
They soon released an excellent
album, The Michael Schenker
Group, that was noteworthy for
its hard cutting guitar riffs and
excellent use of keyboards to fill
and add depth to the back-
ground. The music was hard

rock at its best.

The group’s next album, MSG,
was a fine effort that achieved
limited commercial success on
the strength of its single “On
and On’ and a number of rock-
ing heavy metal songs, in-
cluding ‘‘Attack of the Mad
Axemen”’ and ‘“‘Are You Ready
to Rock.”’

Although cast in the same
mold, the group’s fourth album,
Assault Attack, just does not live
up to its predecessors. German-
born Schenker, who has also
played guest spots with the
Scorpions (his brother’s band),
is once again outstanding on the
guitar, and the many guitar
tracks are expertly mixed by
Martin Birch, who has also
worked with Deep Purple and
Rainbow. Unfortunately, hand-
some production and explosive
guitar riffs do not save this
album.

The album opens with the title
track, an aggressive and angry
song that is noteworthy for its
strong vocals and guitar. The
best part of the song is when
Schenker seems to pile four
guitar tracks on top of each
other, producing an outstanding
effect. Former Rainbow vocal-
ist Graham Bonnet’s choruses
are rich, but the lead vocals
lack something. The slow and
plodding ‘‘Rock You to the
Ground” follows, and does not
go anywhere. The tune im-
proves at the very end when
Schenker goes into a ferocious
lead, and the entire pace of the
song picks up. Too late.

One of the album’s best selec-
tions is ‘Desert Song,’ a
slower, mellower piece that
gives Bonnet the room to apply
himself and show what he can
do, especially on the choruses.
This song comes closest to cap-
turing the spacy, yet heavy
Style that marked the first
album. Schenker’s_ guitar
tracks on the song mesh to-
gether beautifully and contain
the undertones of subtle tech-
nical mastery that are his
trademark. Unlike Eddie Van
Halen, who simply devastates
the audience by playing as fast,
loud and hard as he can;
Schenker is more discreet,
though not inferior.

“Broken Promises’ opens
with a pounding back beat that
is soon joined by a staccato
guitar and rolling bass. Unfor-
tunately, that is all you can say
about the song. It contains a
good guitar lead, as do all MSG
songs, but that does not make
up for an annoyingly abrupt
rhythm. The song does not flow,
but often seems to lurch along,
although when Bonnet is not
singing the song does settle
down drastically and work
much better.

Schenker and Bonnet are
outstanding throughout the
album, turning in first class
performances, and the backing
of Chris Glen on bass and Ted
McKenna on drums is solid, but
the album is still flawed. At
times the group seems to be
struggling to hold the album
together, and the vocals seem to
be forced in. Generally, the
music is excellent mainstream
rock, but the lyrical content
drags the rest of the album
down.

The album’s best song is
“Ulcer,” a jumpy instrumental
that lives up to Schenker’s
reputation. Double bass drums
and a surging bass line give the
song much of its appeal, and
Schenker lays guitar upon

guitar, creating perhaps his

best instrumental yet. Although
definitely not dance music, the
song moves so much it is dif-

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

BUY EARLY — SAVE!

Make Plans For Spring Break &
: Ask For Good Deals

to Florida!

Sin

CALL
463-7174

 

ficult to sit still while listening
to it.

Overall, the album does not
add up to the sum of its parts.
All the band members give solid
performances, and the produc-
tion is excellent, but something
is missing. The vocals are
sometimes muffled, but more
importantly, the lyrics are
uninteresting and do not cap-
ture the listener’s attention.
The early album’s lyrics were
ethereal, clear and interesting,
yet Assault Attack’s lyrics lack
that appeal. The early albums
were more fluid musically, not
as rough as this album.
Schenker seems constrained by
the vocals, and does not let the
guitar take the forefront nearly
as effectively as on the other
albums. He only gets to cut
loose during “‘Ulcer’’ and when
Bonnet is not singing. If the
guitars were more aggressive
and dominant over the vocals
like the other albums, Assault
Attack would be a better album.
Nonetheless, it is a pretty good
album, even if it does not equal
its predecessors, and is certain-
ly worth a look. It grows on you,
and, if you get past the vocals, it
can be quite appealing. A good,
though flawed, album.

W&L Alumni College

Looking for an unusual vaca-
tion this summer?

How about taking a trip to
Japan? Or a journey back into
the antebellum South? Or an ex-
cursion through the American
legal system? All three vaca-
tion journeys can be made
without ever’ leaving
southwestern Virginia.

The Washington and Lee
University Alumni College is of-
fering three vacation seminars
this summer on the W&L cam-
pus in Lexington.

The three one-week seminars
are ‘‘Law and Society,’’ offered
June 26 through July 2; ‘‘The
Antebellum South: American
Arcadia?”’ July 10 through July
16; and ‘Japan: Beyond the
Headlines,” July 31 through
August 6.

Each seminar will blend

relaxation and recreation with
provocative readings, lectures,
and discussions on the seminar
topics.

Washington and Lee faculty
members who are specialists in
the various areas will lead daily
lecture and discussion sessions.
Those sessions will be com-
plemented by a variety of even-
ing programs featuring such
special guests as Hollywood
film producer Paul Maslansky
and NBC News correspondent
Lloyd Dobyns, along with

Concert calendar

April
1 Jimmy Buffett
3 Alabama (sold out)
8 The New Virginians
The Grateful Dead
Dan Fogelberg
Dan Fogelberg

SrReo

SINHA

Chrysler Hall, Norfolk
Salem Civic Center
Roanoke Civic Center
Hampton Coliseum
William and Mary
University of Maryland

present:

Sunday night April 17th.
TO

several visiting performers and
faculty.

According to Robert Fure,
director of summer programs
at W&L, each program has been
carefully designed to appeal to
a general audience.

‘Although experts in various
fields will be involved, the pro-
grams are not intended for
those with special interests on-
ly,” Fure noted.

Washington and Lee held its
first alumni coliege during the
summer of 1982. It proved so
successfu) that three one-week
sessions were designed for 1983.

‘Although we had limited the
attendance to Washington and
Lee alumni and their family in
the first year, we want to make
this new and exciting program
available to anyone who is in-
terested in a vacation ex-
perience that is truly
enriching,”’ said Fure,

In addition to the sessions on
the seminar topics, the vacation
seminars will offer abundant
recreational opportunities,
ranging from tennis to golf to
hiking, as well as optional lear-
ning programs such as historic
tours, musical events, and art
classes.

Each vacation seminar will
include a separate junior pro-
gram staffed by experienced
youth counselors. Thus, the
W&L Alumni College makes a
family vacation possible.

Fure noted that the program
participants can either live on
the campus in furnished apart-
ments or commute.

For information on the W&L
Alumni College seminars, con-
tact Dr. Robert Fure, Office of
Summer Programs,
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty, Lexington, Va. 24450.

www ACK
Coming back from Spring Break
for the W&L-U.Va. game
on April 17th?

The S.A.B. and the Cockpit

HMM
Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983

 

 

Student protest in the Me generation

By B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Staff Writer

Student protest.

Those two words quickly in-
voke strong visual images. Im-
ages of violence, drugs, long
hair, Vietnam and Kent State.

Student protests, 1983.

Suddenly, bringing the
stereotyped concept into the
present invokes different im-
ages. This time, they are im-
ages of William and Mary
students singing Christmas
carols at their president’s
house, University of Richmond
students wearing black arm
bands, and University of
Virginia students staging an im-
promptu sit-in at a busy in-
tersection.

These images are not the only
aspect of student protests that
have changed in the past fifteen
years. No longer are students
protesting the draft, Vietnam,
and civil rights. Today, they are
protesting exam dates, diploma
sizes, fraternity closings, and
the extermination of large par-
ties.

“That trend is very true,”
said Sam Sadler, - dean of
students at the College of
William and Mary. ‘‘The issues
and the tactics (of student pro-
tests) are different. But I don’t
think the level of concern is any
different.”

He should know. In
December, Sadler encountered
a protest on the campus that in-
volved a very high level of con-
cern for thestudents involved.
The school’s calendar schedul-
ed student exams up until
Thursday, December 23. As an
ad in the student newspaper,
the Flat Hat, said.

 

‘534 students will be taking
their last final exams on Thurs-
day, December 23. 134 Resident
Assistants are required to re-
main until noon of Friday,
December 24. Because of travel
complications some _ students
will not arrive home until
Christmas Day — some may not
even make it home until after-
Christmas.”

The ad then called for the
students to ‘‘join us in wishing
President (Thomas A.) Graves
a Merry Christmas as we sing
Christmas carols outside the
president’s house.’’ Three hun-
dred students showed up for the
‘protest.’ Shortly thereafter, a
special session of weekend class
enabled the exam dates to be
moved up two days.

“T don’t know if the
Christmas caroling had any
real effect,” said Sadler. ‘‘The
students at William and Mary
are in a position with real in-
fluence on campus. Their let-
ters and speaking out were pro-
bably more effective.

“The Christmas caroling was
more symbolic. It was impor-
tant for them to express their
solidarity, the strength of their
feelings.”’

David White, president of the
W&M student association, told a
reporter at the time, ‘We
basically just hope to reinforce
our point. We want at least to
bring attention to the problems
of the calendar in general and to
make changes in it for next
year.”’

The University of Virginia
has been embroiled in two con-
troversies during this academic
year. One involved the termina-
tion of Easters, ‘the East
Coast’s Largest Party,’ and the

other a reduction in the size of
U.Va.diplomas.

The U.Va. students literally
took to the streets when it was
announced that the annual
weekend-long party had been
abolished. Four hundred
students marched into a busy
highway, U.S. 29 where they re-
mained for two hours. More
protests were promised, but ac-
cording to Steve Klein, assis-
tant dean of students, none
materialized.

‘“‘Easters was a big deal. A
student forum was arranged
with the deans there to answer
questions. It was a vehicle for
students to vent their frustra-
tions, but surprisingly, only
about 75 people came,’’ said
Klein.

The Inter-fraternity Council,
he noted, did sell T-shirts and
posters protesting the ban, in-
cluding one that cited ‘‘The
Grinch That Stole Easters.”’

“The bigger protest,” said
Klein , ‘was over that decision
to reduce the size of Virginia
diplomas. A much _ greater
number of students expressed
their feelings. They made an
impact and the decision was
made not to reduce the size.”

At the University of Rich-
mond, two fraternities, Theta
Chi and Sigma Chi, alledgedly
involved in a food fight in the
school dining hall, were closed
down for several months as a
result.

The two fraternities, as well
as The Collegian, the student
newspaper, raised protests.
Waverly Green, president of
Sigma Chi, told the newspaper,
“We don’t feel the fraternity
should be held responsible for
the alleged actions of eight in-

 

Sixth District Rep. Jim Olin, left, was interviewed live on Washington and Lee University’s cable
television station last Friday by W&L students Jim Geason, center, of Lexington and Henry Langhorne
of Pensacola, Fla. (Mason photo for W&L)

dividuals at a non-fraternity
function. We were charged
charged and punished, but we
had no forum to present our
views.”’

Members of the two frater-
nities wore black arm bands to
express their dismay at the
disciplinary measures.

During the fall semester one
year ago, according to Dr. Dick
Mateer, dean of Richmond Col-
lege, students found another
unique way to vent their
frustrations. When a popular
professor was not granted
tenure, the students refused to
fill out a faculty evaluation
form, thus invalidating the
survey.

Even at the liberal Virginia
Commonwealth University,
known for its vocal students, the
largest protest of the past
several years has not been over
El] Salvador or nuclear pro-
liferation, but over the rights of
flyers to be stapled to telephone
poles.

Administrators talked to at
the mentioned schools have also
noticed this trend toward
students being more concerned
with issues affecting their own
well-being.

“A lot of p eople in the age
group of 18 to 22 think they have
limited power,” said Mateer.
“Since they can’t effect the big
issues, they say let’s affect
something we can do something
about.

‘“‘They know that the world’s
not going to end if the fraternity
closes or they don’t have
Easters. But they feel that they
might have some chance of
making an impact. Often, it’s
more trivial, really.”

“It’s an attitudinal change on
the part of the student,” said

Stephanie Bennett, dean of
Westhampton College at the
University of Richmond, adding
that she believes it is a return to
the ‘‘work ethic.”’

“Ten years ago, it was dif-
ferent,’’ she said. ‘“The students
were interested in the suffering
people of Biafra. They wanted
to join the Peace Corps and
VISTA. Now they are joining
IBM.”’

‘Students are more concern-
ed about themselves,’’ said
Klein. ‘It’s a ‘Me’ generation.
They are more interested in
preparation for life after col-
lege than supporting a cause.
When they do, the intensity and
longevity is minimal compared
to the sustained protests of that
other era.”’

But Sadler sees it not as a
change in the students, but as a
change in the times.

“The mood is different. The
tactics are more sophisticated.
The times aren’t as emotional
and intense as the ’60s and ’70s
with their disruption. There is
more sophistication in making
the system work for them.

“The Vietnam protests were
personal in a real way. The
males expecially were facing
the possiblity of the draft and
going to Vietnam.

“IT don’t think there is
anything comparable today.
There are no _ international
issues with the same potential
for impact,”’ Sadler said.

Yet Sadler was right when he
said the students are concen-
trating on making the system
work for them. The William and
Mary students were able to
change their exam dates. Fif-
teen years ago, they were un-
successful in ending the war.

Wagner on WLUR

Richard Wagner’s ‘‘Die
Walkuere” will be broadcast
live from the stage of the
Metropolitan Opera House on
Saturday, April 2, at 1 p.m. over
WLUR-FM (91.5), Washington
and Lee’s campus station.

Featured in the cast are
Gwyneth Jones as Bruennhilde;
Hildegard Behrens as
Sieglinde; Mignon Dunn as
Fricka; Manfred Jung, in his
Met broadcast debut as Sieg-
mund; Franz-Ferdinand Nent-
wig as Wotan and Hans

 

Hamric & Sheridan

JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs
GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Hand Engraving & Class Rings
11 W. Nelson 463-2022

 

 

 

Tschammer, also in his Met
broadcast debut, as Hunding.
Silvio Varviso is the conductor.
Written one year after ‘‘Das
Rheingold,”’ ‘Die Walkuere’’
occupies a special place among
Wagner’s operas. It is probably
the most popular of the ‘‘Ring”’
dramas as well as the one most
frequently performed by itself.
For the first intermission,
noted music commentator
Speight Jenkins will discuss
Wagner and “‘Die Walkuere.”’

Ju displays

paintings

An exhibition of paintings by
Washington and Lee University
art professor I-Hsiung Ju is cur-
rently on display in the E & J
Frankel Gallery in New York
City.

Entitled ‘Bamboo: Symbol
and Substance,” the exhibition
is composed exclusively of pain-
tings of bamboo. The show will
be on display through April 23 in
the Frankel Gallery which
specializes in oriental art.
 

Sports

The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983, Page 13

 

 

Generals fall to Towson State, but...
rebound vs. Delaware

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

Although both teams were
unable to capitalize on
numerous extra-man_situa-
tions, Towson State prevailed
against the Washington and Lee
lacrosse team, 12-8, Saturday at
Towson, Maryland. The loss,
the Generals third in a row, put
their record at 1-3.

After W&L took a 2-0 lead in
the first four minutes on goals
by Geoff Wood and John Doub,
the Tigers ran off the next four
goals and never trailed again.

The Generals had an oppor-
tunity to tie it at three when
Towson was called for two one-
minute penalties with 2:46 left
in the first quarter. However,
W&L could not get the ball past
goalie Gavin Moag.

‘“‘They packed their defense in
right in front of the goal, giving
us the outside shot,” explained
W&L coach Jack Emmer.
“Their goalie had a couple of
nice saves when we were able to
get the ball through the crowd.”’

After falling behind 6-3 in the
second quarter the Generals
closed the gap to one goal by

halftime. Mark Knobloch and .

Geoff Wood worked the give-
and-go to perfection in the
unsettled situation with
Knobloch converting Wood’s
pass. Wood, who ended up with
two goals and five assists, then
made it 6-5 when W&L was up
one man.

‘‘He (Wood) really took ad-
vantage of the unsettled situa-
tions,”’ said Emmer. ‘He hustl-
ed real well.”

 

Water Polo

 

Erik Peterson

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity water polo standouts Erik
Peterson and Rand McClain,
who last fall led the Generals to
a 26-9 record, have received
college-division All-America
honors from the U.S. Water
Polo Coaches Association.

Peterson, a senior from
Miami, Fla, was named to the
seven-man first team for the se-

 

Two named All-American

cond straight season. McClain,
a junior from Miami, earned a
spot on the seven-man second
team, also for the second con-
secutive time.

Peterson is a two-year letter-
man who paced the Generals in
goals last fall with 134 for an
average of 3.8 per game. Mc-
Clain, a three-year letterman,
was second in assists with 63

  
  

Rand McClain

and tied-for-second in goals
with 81. The pair joined with
junior Tim Rock to serve as

team captains.
W&L’s 26-9 record included a
second straight Southern

League title and a fifth con-
secutive appearance in the
Eastern Intercollegiate Cham-
pionships where W&L placed
seventh among eight teams.

 

 

Herring

x

w

Vacation In The
Islands
Over Spring Break

After taking your economics final

which was based on the one chapter

5
you didn’t read, fly off to a week of partying in the
Seven day Bahama vacations

Bahamas or Burmuda.
start at $259.00.

Travel Service, Inc.

 

195 S. Main St.

Lexington, Va.

 

Towson could have put the
game out of reach in the third
quarter when the Generals
were down a man for almost
two minutes. The Tigers had the
same luck, however, as the
Generals did in the first
quarter. For the game, Towson
was 2-10 and W&L 3-12 on the
extra-man situation.

“There was some pretty good
goaltending on both sides
especially against the outside
shots,’’ Emmer remarked.

After John Tunney, who won
11 of 16 faceoffs for W&L,
scored at 6:40 of the third to
make it a one-goal difference
for the last time, Generals’
goalie Phil Aiken handled three
consecutive shots from point-
blank range. Towson’s Tom
Bruno scored shortly thereafter
to make it 8-6, though.

After building a six-goal lead
in the third quarter, the
Washington and Lee lacrosse
team had to survive five
unanswered goals by the
University of Delaware — the
last one coming with 55 seconds
left in the game — to hold off the
Blue Hens for a 12-11 victory
Wednesday on Wilson Field.

Geoff Wood scored the third
of his five goals at 11:33 of the
third quarter to break a 6-6 tie.
Two minutes later, freshman
Caulley Derringer put in his se-
cond goal by sneaking in from
behind unchallenged. Mark
Knobloch made it 9-6 with a
hard bouncer, followed by
Wood’s second of the quarter at
the 6:09 mark. Wood then got
his last goal on an empty net
when a pass by Delaware from
midfield rolled back to its goal
and goalie David Darrell came
out of the crease but failed to
control the bouncing ball.

Freshman Todd Breithaupt
completed the 6-0 rally by put-
ting in a shot just outside the
crease after he spun off his
man.

Delaware made it close with a
5-0 run in the fourth quarter.
Two early goals by Tom Nuttle
and Randy Powers’ tally with
6:09 left, drew the Blue Hens
within three. Nuttle then notch-
ed his fifth of the game with 1:08
left after an attempt to clear by
W&L failed. Thirteen seconds
later, Powers scored while he
was on his kness to make it a
one-goal game. The Generals
controlled the ensuing faceoff
and were able to kill the clock.

W&L has games with William
and Mary and Virginia during
the Easter break.

Coach Jack Emmer said that
the Indians, who are 3-3 with an
18-14 victory over Duke cannot
be counted on to be a pushover
as they have been in past years.

“They’re much stronger,”
Emmer said. “‘They can pose a
problem with us not having a
chance to practice much before
the game.’’ The Generals won
last year in Williamsburg, 15-10.

The UVa. game will be played
Sunday before spring term
begins at 2:00 p.m. on Wilson
Field.

| VARNER |
| & POLE

115 South Main Street

 

 

CINEMA |

261-2900

BUENA VISTA

 

A STEVEN SPIELBERG) FILM

ET

THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL

arts
“pris

including best picture.

 

“BEST FILM OF THE YEAR’
ONE OF THE YEAR'S 10 BEST

NEWSWEEK + PEOPLE MAGAZINE * US MAGAZINE
NY TIMES « DAILY NEWS * GANNETT NEWSPAPERS | 4
NY POST + NATIONAL BOARD OF REVIEW

Nine Golden Globe nominations

    
   

PG ee

Shows Sun.-Thurs. 7:15 only Fri, & Sat. 7:15 & 9:00
Mon. night and matinees, all seats $1.50

 

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

er Ty Cer R ee ee a ae

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and -

TAY

or

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

PHONE 463-7000

 
Page 14, The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983

 

Sports

 

 

 
   

Senior shortstop Jody Harris churns toward the plate in W&L’s

8-7 win at Bridgewater on March 22. (Ries photo for W&L)

Netters even record

By DAVID STUART
Phi Staff Writer —

Charlie Kalocsay dragged out
a three set tennis match to a
tiebreaker before winning 6:3,
4-6, 7-6, and giving W&L a 4-2
match lead in a 7-2 win at VMI
Tuesday.

The win over VMI evened the
tennis team’s season win-loss
record to 6-6 and equalled the
victory total of the rebuilding
1982 season record of 6-17.

Playing six matches in as
many cool, windy days, the
Generals held their own turf
against a mixed schedule of
Division I, II and III teams.
Division I teams with scholar-

ships such as Harvard B team,
James Madison and George
Washington trounced W&L 9-0,
8-1 and 6-3 respectively.

Against Division II teams
from schools with limited
scholarships, the Generals did
well, drubbing Slippery Rock
State 8-1 last Thursday and
VMI. Seeing the lopsided mat-
ches that W&L_ handed
Randolph-Macon College in a
8-1 rout Saturday morning, one
can understand why the
schedule favors tougher divi-
sions.

In fact, varsity tennis coach
Gary Franke said “I was disap-
pointed we didn’t shut them
(Randolph-Macon) out,’ The

THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING

YAU

GMAT

PREPARATION COURSES

mT

admission process, call now:

or write:

 

New York, N.Y. 10020

The National Center for Educational Testing
1271 Ave. of the Americas, Suite 777

COURSES OFFERED
NATIONWIDE
for the

June 20 LSAT

including

LEXINGTON

NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-hr. or 32-hr. “Weekender” courses
Live lectures - Simulated exam conditions +» Special home-study
materials + Tape library -

Up-to-date course materials + Counseling

LSA 40-hr. begins 4/18 at the Trinity United
Methodist Church, 147 S. Main Street

or a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class coverin
the LSAT/GMAT exams and the Law School/Graduate Business Schoo!

TOLL FREE (800) 223-2618 Contact locally:

C. Jay Robbins
703/463-6687

GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or
take the next course FREE.

 

5 Baseball
Generals split away games

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
baseball team won two games
on a four-game road trip last
week to boost its Old Dominion
Athletic Conference record to
2-2 and its overall mark to 3-5.

The Generals defeated
Bridgewater College 8-7 and
beat Randolph-Macon 6-5 in the
second game of a doubleheader.
W&L lost the first game of the
doubleheader to the Yellow-
jackets 4-2 and dropped a 5-2
decision to Lynchburg College.

“I’m pleased with certain
aspects of it;’’ said W&L Coach
Jim Murdock regarding his
team’s road trip. ‘‘Overall, we
are pleased wtih our 2-2 con-
ference standing,’ he said.

Murdock said that he was
particularly pleased with his
team’s play defensively. The
only aspects of the Generals
play that Murdock was
displeased with were the
number of wild pitches by the
Generals and the lack of hitting
in the Lynchburg game.

at 6-6

No. 1 doubles pair of Craig Can-

non and Steve Denny, hopeful

candidates for Division III Na--
tional Tournament, lost a pain-

ful match 6-7, 6-2, 4-6.

Steve Denny had the best in-
dividual match record in
singles winning four and losing
a well played 5-7, 5-7 No. 2
match against Harvard.

‘Charlie Kalocsay No. 5, and
Scott Adams No. 6, both follow-
ed with 3 victories; Cannon No.
1 and Jim Irwin, No. 4 with 2.
Slumping Andy Haring went 1-4
for the week.

Haring said little but Cannon,
frustrated after his third con-
secutive loss in singles, stared
downwards and said, ‘I just
wasn’t in there, in the game
mentally.”” Cannon lost those
matches with scores of 6-4, 6-4
against Harvard and JMU and
6-3, 46, and 74 against VMI’s
Alex Thompson.

After exams the tennis team
will go on their Florida road trip
during spring break visiting
Stetson, Rollins, West Georgia,
Emory and Davidson Colleges.

a

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988

Last Tuesday at Bridgewater
the Generals collected 14 hits
and picked up some good relief
pitching from sophomore Billy
White to win their first ODAC
game 8-7.

W&L scored four times in the
seventh inning to erase a 4-3
Eagles lead. The Generals
scored what turned out to be the
winning run in the eighth inn-

ing.

Freshman Hugh Finkelstein
and senior Chris Cavalline both
ripped three hits for the
Generals, while junior Kevin
Golden knocked in four RBIs.

Last Thursday in the first
game of the doubleheader at
Randolph-Macon, the Yellow-
jackets scored four times in the
first four innings en route to a
4-2 win over the Generals.

W&L collected eight hits in
the seven inning game. Finkels-
tein led the Generals’ attack
with three hits.

Senior Marty Thomas pitched
the entire game for the
Generals and took the loss.

In the nightcap of the
doubleheader the Generals

rallied from an early 3-0 deficit
to defeat Randolph-Macon 6-5.

White pitched three innings of
relief to pick up the win for the
Generals. White is now 2-1 on
the year.

Finkelstein again led the
Generals 10-hit-attack with four
hase hits.

Saturday at Lynchburg the
Generals jumped out to a 1-0
lead in the top of the first inn-
ing, but Lynchburg retalliated
with two solo home runs in the
bottom of the first and went on

 todefeat W&L 5-2.

W&L was held to three hits by
Lynchburg. Cavalline had two
doubles for the Generals and
knocked in one of the Generals’
runs,

Senior Jim Stanley was the
losing pitcher for the Generals.
Thomas pitched four and one-
third innings of solid relief for
the Generals and yielded only
three hits and one unearned run
to Lynchburg. “

~ (continued on page 11)

 

 

 

 

Sports Schedule
TENNIS
TUE. April12 at Stetson University
WED. April13 at Rollins College
FRI. = April 15 at West Georgia College
SAT. April 16 at Emory University
SUN. April 17 at Davidson College
TUE. April19 at Lynchburg College
THR. April 21 HAMPDEN-SYDNEY COLLEGE
BASEBALL
SAT. April 9 EASTERN MENNONITE COLLEGE
(2)
MON. Aprilli COLLEGE OF WILLIAM & MARY
THR. Aprill4 at Catholic (2)
SAT. April 16 at Maryville (2)
TUE. April19 LYNCHBURG
THR. April 21 BRIDGEWATER
LAX
TUE. April12 COLLEGE OF WILLIAM & MARY
SUN. = April 17 UNIVERSITY OF VA.
TRACK
FRI. April 15 at Lynchburg, Eastern Mennonite
(at Lynchburg)
GOLF
F-S April 15-16 at Virginia Tech ‘‘Gobbler Classic”
TUE. April19 at Longwood, Newport, News,
Bridgewater (at Staunton)

 

 

 

 

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588
The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983, Page 15

 

 

 

Senior Alan Armitage heads-for a win in the 110-meter high

hurdles Friday, March 25 on the Wilson Field track. (Ries photo for

W&L)

Track & Field

 

 

Time Out....

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

...Well, now that the
showdown in New Mexico is set,
perhaps we should try to figure
out what happened — in other
words, why I was wrong — on
the road to Albuquerque
(sickening phrase courtesy of
Brent Musburger). I
guessnobody told State and
Georgia they weren’t supposed
to win their regionals, They
were supposed to showcase the
big boys. You know, ‘Thanks
guys, we'll take it from here.”
The boys from Charlotte and
Athens decided they weren't
through, though. The Dawgs
just outplayed UNC, leaving the
Heels with their mouths
agape.(Say “‘S-E-C,’’ Sam.) In
the West, U.Va. proved it
couldn’t win the big one again,
or was it that Terry Holland
proved that he couldn’t coach
the big one? In the Mideast,
although Louisville did not
deserve to get by Arkansas, the
Cards were eventually too
much for Joe B’s boys. Houston
— I was right here, obviously a
mistake — waltzed, or rather
skied, through the Midwest. As
for what happens this weekend,
uh...I’ll take the team in red... .

...1S Martina Navratilova in-
vincible, at least on the
women’s tennis circuit? The
U.S. converted Czech has

 

amassed a devastating 114-3

record since last January. Jn
three straight matches last
week she crushed three women
who had beaten her. To top it
off, she dismantled Chris Evert
Lloyd to win the final.
Navratilova is currently train-
ing via computer and is on a
diet that is chemically de-aging
her blood. (It now chemically
resembles the blood of an eight-
year old, reports ‘“‘World Ten-
nis” magazine.) It’s become so
that opponents playing the best
match of their lives only have a
chance of winning. Then again,
I heard the same things being
said about Bjorn Borg a couple
years ago. Hmmm....

...I’ve been told how horren-
dous my last predictions were.
So, to do the prognostications

for the baseball season, I’ve |

picked up a free-agent, who has
chosen to remain nameless.
(Good Start.) I’ll call him the
Prince of Jersey, and the royal
word is thus:

AL East — If Kuenn’s pitching
holds out, the Brewers should
have little trouble repeating.
Only the Yankees plus Kemp
and Baylor can hope to match
the Yankees but George may
have to sign Bruno the Law Dog
to bolster his pitching staff.

AL West — Chicago, KC, and
California all look good on
paper. The Angels will miss
Baylor though, and also, the
Royals will be in trouble if ag-
ing regulars Blue, McRae, and

Otis slow down. The Chisox
have awesome pitching, and if
any one of a horde of farm
hands proves to be a major
leaguer, they’ll be even
tougher.

NL East — This one may be too
close to call. Montreal has a lot
of power offensively, but the
Cards have few low-average
hitters. The Phillies are tough
as always at the plate, but how
long can Carlton go on? and if
Tanner’s pitchers come through
and Parker has the kind of year
he’s being paid to have, who
knows?

NL West — L.A. has, potential-
ly, the best team, although
LaSorda will be relying on
rookies in some key gaps in the
infield. Atlanta can only hope to
have the same kind of pitching
they did last year, and that
could prove crucial late in the
season. Garvey will aid the
Padres both offensively and
defensively, along with adding
some championship experience
to a team that has none. This
may be the most interesting
race of all.

...Remember, you heard it
here first. Witty fellow, isn’t
he? Address all gripes to ‘“‘The
Parkway Prophet”’...

..-Here’s something for you to
think about during finals. Those
students at NC State who also
happen to be on the basketball
team attended class on Monday
for the first time since the
beginning of March...

 

‘Cinder-fellas’ undefeated

Washington and Lee’s track
and field team claimed vic-
tories over four squads last
week to improve its record to
5-0.

W&L’s next meet will be Fri-
day, April 15 at Lynchburg.

The Generals opened the
week at Bridgewater College on
Tuesday, March 22, compiling
85 points to outdistance the host
Eagles at 49 and Eastern Men-
nonite College at 35. W&L
triumphed in ten of the meet’s
17 events.

On Friday W&L piled up 96
points to beat Newport News
Apprentice’s 56 and Emory &
Henry’s 27 on Wilson Field. The
Generals again won ten of the 17
events.

Sophomores Scott Henderson
and Chris Ives were leaders in
the victories. Henderson won
the 400-meter intermediate hur-
die events and ran on the winn-
ing 400-meter and mile-relay
entries in both meets. Ives won
the 100-meter run and the 200-
meter run on Friday, and ran on
the 400-meter relay team Tues-
day and Friday.

Tuesday’s 400-meter relay
squad also included junior Scott
Doyle and sophomore Gener

Girard. Tuesday’s mile-relay
entry also featured sophomore
Mark Pembroke, classmate
Ken Moles and freshman Chris
McGowan. On Friday Pem-

broke replaced Doyle in the 400
relay and junior Eroll Skyers
relieved Moles in the mile
relay.

 

Baseball

(continued from page 10)

The Generals do not play
again until after exams. W&L
was scheduled to play Lock
Haven State on Wednesday in a
game postponed because of rain
from Monday.

W&L plays four
doubleheaders over spring
break. The Generals take on
Eastern Mennonite and William
and Mary at home on April 8
and 11 respectively. W&L
travels to Catholic University

on April 14 and faces Maryville
College on April 16 at Maryville.

‘“‘We play Mennonite the day
after exams end,’’ Murdock
noted. “That’s kind of tough,”
he said.

The doubleheaders’ the
Generals will play at Maryville
and Catholic are the last road
ODAC contests the Generals
play this year. “Once we get
those games out of the way
we're in good shape,’’ Murdock
stated.

 

 

 

  
    
  

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This
Your Headquarters For

Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality

 

 

 

 

office.

 

Applications Accepted
for Editor &

Business Manager of

The Calyx
The Ring-tum Phi
The Ariel (editor only)

Applications are due
Thursday, March 31 at 5:00
p.m. in Carole Chappell’s.

office. Interviews will begin
tonight at 7:00 in the Phi

For more information contact
Jack Huskin Tonight

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1983, Page 15

 

 

 

Senior Alan Armitage heads-for a win in the 110-meter high

hurdles Friday, March 25 on the Wilson Field track. (Ries photo for

W&L)

Track & Field

 

 

Time Out....

By MIKE STACHURA
Phi Staff Writer

...Well, now that the
showdown in New Mexico is set,
perhaps we should try to figure
out what happened — in other
words, why I was wrong — on
the road to Albuquerque
(sickening phrase courtesy of
Brent Musburger). I
guessnobody told State and
Georgia they weren’t supposed
to win their regionals, They
were supposed to showcase the
big boys. You know, ‘Thanks
guys, we'll take it from here.”
The boys from Charlotte and
Athens decided they weren't
through, though. The Dawgs
just outplayed UNC, leaving the
Heels with their mouths
agape.(Say “‘S-E-C,’’ Sam.) In
the West, U.Va. proved it
couldn’t win the big one again,
or was it that Terry Holland
proved that he couldn’t coach
the big one? In the Mideast,
although Louisville did not
deserve to get by Arkansas, the
Cards were eventually too
much for Joe B’s boys. Houston
— I was right here, obviously a
mistake — waltzed, or rather
skied, through the Midwest. As
for what happens this weekend,
uh...I’ll take the team in red... .

...1S Martina Navratilova in-
vincible, at least on the
women’s tennis circuit? The
U.S. converted Czech has

 

amassed a devastating 114-3

record since last January. Jn
three straight matches last
week she crushed three women
who had beaten her. To top it
off, she dismantled Chris Evert
Lloyd to win the final.
Navratilova is currently train-
ing via computer and is on a
diet that is chemically de-aging
her blood. (It now chemically
resembles the blood of an eight-
year old, reports ‘“‘World Ten-
nis” magazine.) It’s become so
that opponents playing the best
match of their lives only have a
chance of winning. Then again,
I heard the same things being
said about Bjorn Borg a couple
years ago. Hmmm....

...I’ve been told how horren-
dous my last predictions were.
So, to do the prognostications

for the baseball season, I’ve |

picked up a free-agent, who has
chosen to remain nameless.
(Good Start.) I’ll call him the
Prince of Jersey, and the royal
word is thus:

AL East — If Kuenn’s pitching
holds out, the Brewers should
have little trouble repeating.
Only the Yankees plus Kemp
and Baylor can hope to match
the Yankees but George may
have to sign Bruno the Law Dog
to bolster his pitching staff.

AL West — Chicago, KC, and
California all look good on
paper. The Angels will miss
Baylor though, and also, the
Royals will be in trouble if ag-
ing regulars Blue, McRae, and

Otis slow down. The Chisox
have awesome pitching, and if
any one of a horde of farm
hands proves to be a major
leaguer, they’ll be even
tougher.

NL East — This one may be too
close to call. Montreal has a lot
of power offensively, but the
Cards have few low-average
hitters. The Phillies are tough
as always at the plate, but how
long can Carlton go on? and if
Tanner’s pitchers come through
and Parker has the kind of year
he’s being paid to have, who
knows?

NL West — L.A. has, potential-
ly, the best team, although
LaSorda will be relying on
rookies in some key gaps in the
infield. Atlanta can only hope to
have the same kind of pitching
they did last year, and that
could prove crucial late in the
season. Garvey will aid the
Padres both offensively and
defensively, along with adding
some championship experience
to a team that has none. This
may be the most interesting
race of all.

...Remember, you heard it
here first. Witty fellow, isn’t
he? Address all gripes to ‘“‘The
Parkway Prophet”’...

..-Here’s something for you to
think about during finals. Those
students at NC State who also
happen to be on the basketball
team attended class on Monday
for the first time since the
beginning of March...

 

‘Cinder-fellas’ undefeated

Washington and Lee’s track
and field team claimed vic-
tories over four squads last
week to improve its record to
5-0.

W&L’s next meet will be Fri-
day, April 15 at Lynchburg.

The Generals opened the
week at Bridgewater College on
Tuesday, March 22, compiling
85 points to outdistance the host
Eagles at 49 and Eastern Men-
nonite College at 35. W&L
triumphed in ten of the meet’s
17 events.

On Friday W&L piled up 96
points to beat Newport News
Apprentice’s 56 and Emory &
Henry’s 27 on Wilson Field. The
Generals again won ten of the 17
events.

Sophomores Scott Henderson
and Chris Ives were leaders in
the victories. Henderson won
the 400-meter intermediate hur-
die events and ran on the winn-
ing 400-meter and mile-relay
entries in both meets. Ives won
the 100-meter run and the 200-
meter run on Friday, and ran on
the 400-meter relay team Tues-
day and Friday.

Tuesday’s 400-meter relay
squad also included junior Scott
Doyle and sophomore Gener

Girard. Tuesday’s mile-relay
entry also featured sophomore
Mark Pembroke, classmate
Ken Moles and freshman Chris
McGowan. On Friday Pem-

broke replaced Doyle in the 400
relay and junior Eroll Skyers
relieved Moles in the mile
relay.

 

Baseball

(continued from page 10)

The Generals do not play
again until after exams. W&L
was scheduled to play Lock
Haven State on Wednesday in a
game postponed because of rain
from Monday.

W&L plays four
doubleheaders over spring
break. The Generals take on
Eastern Mennonite and William
and Mary at home on April 8
and 11 respectively. W&L
travels to Catholic University

on April 14 and faces Maryville
College on April 16 at Maryville.

‘“‘We play Mennonite the day
after exams end,’’ Murdock
noted. “That’s kind of tough,”
he said.

The doubleheaders’ the
Generals will play at Maryville
and Catholic are the last road
ODAC contests the Generals
play this year. “Once we get
those games out of the way
we're in good shape,’’ Murdock
stated.

 

 

 

  
    
  

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This
Your Headquarters For

Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality

 

 

 

 

office.

 

Applications Accepted
for Editor &

Business Manager of

The Calyx
The Ring-tum Phi
The Ariel (editor only)

Applications are due
Thursday, March 31 at 5:00
p.m. in Carole Chappell’s.

office. Interviews will begin
tonight at 7:00 in the Phi

For more information contact
Jack Huskin Tonight

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

VOLUME 82

Ring

NUMBER 25

THE UNPVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

-tum Phi APR 2 21983

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia April 21, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO 38

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jorma Kaukonen packed the pit for two shows Tuesday night. (Phi photo by Chainsaw Stevens)

Byrd blasts spending, judges

Sen. Harry F. Byrd Jr., the
Virginia Independent who end-
ed 18 years in the U.S. Senate
when he retired this year, cited
his continuing concern with un-
controlled spending in Washing-
ton during a _ speech at
Washington and Lee University
Wednesday night.

Byrd also told the Lee Chapel
audience that he _ believes
federal judges should not have
lifetime tenure.

“We are mortgaging the
future of the young men and
women of our country,’’ said
Byrd, whose appearance at
W&L was sponsored by the
Tucker Law Forum in the W&L
School of Law. “Unless you
assume the government can
spend all the money it wants

and no one will have to pay for
it, then what we are doing is
saying that we of this genera-
tion are not going to pay for the
spending, but will let you folks
who come along later pay for
eo

Byrd argued that “spending
in Washington has gotten totally
out of control’ because there is
no discipline in the Congress
when it comes to spending
federal funds.

“Some way there must be
discipline brought, else we are
going to face catastrophe in the
money markets,’’ he said. “I’m
not contending that money is of
primary importance. I’m say-

ing that it is of primary impor-
tance only in the sense that in-
dividual citizens have to suffer
the consequences of overspend-
ing. There is only one place that
government can get money, and
that’s out of the pockets of peo-
ple who work.”

Byrd added that he knows of
only one way to bring such
discipline to the Congress — a
Constitutional amendment

mandating a balanced budget.

“I do not like the Constitution
cluttered with too many amend-
ments, but I have reached the
conclusion now that there is no
other way to bring discipline to
the men and women who serve
in the Congress of the United
States,’ Byrd added.

“For almost 20 years the
federal government has been

(continued on page 5)

Russian defector
speaks Monday

Arkady Shevchenko, the
highest ranking Soviet official
ever to defect to the West, will
present ‘A View From The
Kremlin” at Washington and
Lee University on Monday,
April 25.

Shevchenko will speak in
W&L’s Lee Chapel at 8 p.m. as
part of Contact ’83, a speaker
symposium sponsored jointly
by the student body and the in-
terfraternity council at Wash-
ington and Lee.

The program is open to the
public at no charge.

When he defected in April
1978, Shevchenko was Moscow’s
top-ranking official on the staff
of the United Nations where he
was Under Secretary General.

The Ukrainian-born Shev-
chenko received a Ph.D. in in-
ternational law from Moscow’s
Diplomatic Institute. He was
first posted to the United Na-
tions in 1963 as a counselor in
the Soviet Mission and served in
New York for seven years. He
then returned to Moscow as an
adviser to Foreign Minister An-
drei Gromyko and reached am-
bassadorial rank at the unusu-
ally early age of 40.

In 1973 he was sent back to the
United Nations as Under
Secretary General and served
as Secretary General Kurt
Waldheim’s principal assistant
in the Department of Political
and Security Council Affairs
and was familiar with Soviet
positions on strategic arms.

 

Cocaine

te

RE8&

Student arrested, charged

with intent to distribute

By BILL ROBERTS
Editor-in-Chief

A Washington and Lee
University junior has been ar-
rested and-charged with posses-
sion of cocaine with intent to
distribute after Virginia State
Police entered his house on Mc-
Corkle Dr. with a search war-
rant.

Marc A. Ham, 21, of Seaford,
Del., was arrested by state
police Saturday night, April 16,
after they confiscated three
ounces of cocaine from his
room, according to _ police
records. ;

The arrest is the second in a
coordinated investigation by
Rockbridge County Common-
wealth’s Attorney Beverly C.
‘“John’”’ Read, the Lexington
Police Department and the
Virginia State Police.

“It is the largest seizure of co-
caine we've ever had in ‘this
community,” Read said in an
interview Tuesday. ‘‘It is also
very unfortunate.”

Eric Lee Sisler, Ham’s
defense attorney, said that a
preliminary hearing date has
been set for May 27.

On the evening of the arrest,
Ham was held briefly in the
Rockbridge jail and released on
a $20,000 bond.

Polygraph test

State Police Special Agent
Wayne M. Oyler, assisted by
Lexington Police Officer Steven
V. Crowder, conducted the
search at 8:04 p.m. The warrant
was requested on Monday,
April 11, and State Police
Magistrate Charles F. Engle-
man issued the warrant for ‘‘co-
caine and other parapher-
nalia.”’

Items confiscated in the.

search include; a piece of paper
with figures, six plastic baggies
with corners missing, a coke
kit, a glass water pipe, a glass
bottle with white residue, a
hacksaw blade with white
residue, a picture with a line of
cocaine, a metal and wood
Snorting stem, and a prepara-
tion kit.

The first arrest in the drug in-
vestigation occurred on Febru-
ary 4.

W&L sophomore Charles M.

Phillips, of Montclair, N.J., was
arrested and charged with pos-
session of cocaine with intent to
distribute after state police
searched his car with a
narcotics-alert dog. Approx-
imately one ounce of cocaine
with an estimated street value
of $2,400 was found in Phillips’
car, Crowder said.
(Editor’s note: Phi News Editor
Rick Swagler and Staff Writer
Mike Allen contributed to this
report.)

O’Conner wants

charges dropped

By PHIL MURRAY
Phi Staff Writer

A Washington and Lee soph-.

omore charged with possession
of cocaine says he passed a
polygraph test this week and
now hopes that the charge will
be dropped.

Kevin B. O’Connor, of
Baltimore, Md., was arrested
on Feb. 28 after lab reports
identified a substance found in
his room during Christmas
vacation as cocaine.

A Lexington police officer
discovered a very small amount
of cocaine in the room at the
Delta Tau Delta fraternity

house on Lee Avenue on Dec. 17
while he was investigating a
possible break-in there. All of
the students living in the house
had left for vacation.

O’Connor requested the
polygraph test after he was ar-
rested. State Police in Salem
administered the test on Tues-
day, which O’Connor | says
verified his contention that the
cocaine was not his.

Commonwealth’s Attorney
Beverly C. “John” Read had no
comment Wednesday about
whether his office would drop
the charges.

No date has been set for a
preliminary hearing.

Inside the Phi

The Prophet Speaks....
p. Il

 

#
is

2
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983

 

 

Editorial
Faculty moves

without input

By G. BRUCE POTTER
Phi Staff Writer

Item: Rumors are circulating around campus to the
effect that one or more university administrators are
in favor of Washington and Lee going coeducational,
an action that would have to pass the Board of
Trustees.

Item: The faculty quietly approved the new distribu-
tion requirements a few weeks ago. These are the
same guidelines that met with widespread student op-
position when first proposed last fall.

Item: The plus-minus grading system will go into ef-
fect in the fall, according to next year’s catalog. Will
it affect upperclassmen or only freshmen? Has that
even been decided yet?

Each of these proposed changes affects each and
every student in one way or another, but the purpose
of this column is not do discuss their pros and cons.

Rather, let us examine how these changes have oc-
curred or might occur.

Very few students had any idea that the faculty was
even considering a plus-minus grading system until it
was finally approved and reported in the Ring-tum
Phi. And the only way the Phi learned of it was
through a news office press release that merely listed
the vote for and against.

’ By the time the Ring-tum Phi had reported the ac-
tion it was over and done with and students were
stuck with the new system, whether they liked it or
not.

In addition, the question of who this new grading
system will affect has seen little student input.

When the faculty took up the new distribution re-
quirements last fall, the student Executive Commit-
tee quickly responded with a strongly worded letter to
the faculty urging defeat of the new requirements.

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

WEAR, . i cctcccccctisncedrensscbesttceenesersveekeoteierese Bill Roberts
Business Manager..........csccececececccnscrccsesseseesseesenreeeees Steve Perry
News MGMOUG. cc icicccccccccsenetedaececereeredeebereeepeneeeoneters Allen Roberts
Sports Editor... ....scececrsseereecccceveeecvecssessneesesecsenerese Lee Nichols
Assistant Sports Editor ............seeeeeeeeereeeneeeseenenarererese Mike Stachura
Managing Editor. .........ccceeececrececcceeceeeerensenseeresenseseees Jim Laurie
Head Photographer .........0: cs eseeee ee enneeeneeeeeeneneeeneeenaes Dave Stevens
Photographer ........0.ccceeeeece cece eeeenneeeeeeeeeaneeneeanseens Eric Campbell
Entertainment Editor.........:.c cece cere eee e eee eenereeneeeeene David W. Johnston
Reporters ......ccccce cee cneeeeeecnceenceeseeseseareenencs Mike Allen, Tom Baker
John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter,

B. Scott Tilley

Advertising Manager .........:.seceseeeeeeeeeeseneeesneeenentaseeens Tom O’Brien
Ae AR og a odin sca 8 erties ee etree Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
CUPS BER oii.iii on ca ei veh ceeeen Cu eerr ah endeteererres Greg Aydt, Todd Barstow

fe sR eT PLAN OMNES NASER BASANITES LEER TOM TIE SR

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent,

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

OL! ,

0)

=e. ~
Ct

or

-_

>
et
i
i
en
\ \ \
.
se
: ea at
Rs
aS )
n
w)) aad 5

“REAL AMERICANS MUST BE PROTECTED F

However, there was little other student input into the
problem as most students simply took the attitude of
“it doesn’t affect me anyway.”

Postponing a decision until another committee
made a recommendation, the faculty decided at their
last meeting to accept the new requirements. Again,
there was no student input, and the Phi did not even
report this action.

There are only a couple of ways to resolve this pro-
blem of lack of student input into decisions other than
er much money the International Club will get from

e EC.

First, all faculty meetings should be open to
students and Phi reporters. Lexington City Council
does not operate in private — why should our faculty?

Students have a right to know what is being debated
and what policy changes are about to occur so they
can influence the final decision.

Although they need not necessarily be allowed to
participate in the meetings, by knowing what the
faculty is discussing, students can help influence the
decision through later discussions with faculty
members and letters to the Phi.

Secondly, while Board of Trustees’ meetings
possibly ought to be kept private due to the personnel
matters often debated, there should be a non-voting
student member on the board.

Many colleges around the state have instituted this
so that, once again, students can have some idea what
is going on inside the Board of Trustees and can in-
fluence a decision that will undoubtedly affect them.

Every couple of years, it seems that the debate over
coeducation comes to the fore, and whether or not
there is any truth to the latest rumors is irrelevant.
What is important is that Washington and Lee could
conceivably go coeducational without any student in-
put.

Theoretically, the Board of Trustees could vote for
W&L to go coed and, just like that, could tear down 250
years of tradition.

That, then, is the key to the whole situation.

Students have a right to participate in the decision-
making process when the outcome will affect their
academic, social and financial or athletic situation at
the university.

And the only way to accomplish this goal is to open
faculty meetings to students and to have a non-voting
student member on the Board of Trustees. In this
way, there will be less rumor and suspicion about
what goes on at these meetings and more facts and
productive decision-making for the benefit of all.

ROM THE SCUMMIER

  
   

    

=.
)

== — J
4

ELEMENT!

Notes
Tryouts for

 

Midsummer Night

Open tryouts for the
Washington and Lee University
Theatre production of ° the
Shakespeare comedy ‘‘A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” will
be held at 7:30 p.m. on Thurs-
day (April 21) in the
Troubadour Theatre at the cor-
ner of Main and Henry streets
in Lexington.

The play will be directed by
Albert C. Gordon, professor of
fine arts at W&L, and will open
May 20 and run through May 25.

Anyone interested in trying
out for the play should bring a
selected reading from a
Shakespeare play to the audi-
tions.

Writers for
MDC ‘84

Anyone interested in working
on the media committee of the
1984 Mock Democratic Conven-
tion should leave their name
and phone number in the Mock
Convention box in Carole Chap-
pell’s office.

Simpson hosts
teachers

luncheon

Students who are interested
in careers as high school
teachers are invited to attend a
luncheon on Thursday, April 28
at Evans Dining Hall. Dean
Pamela Simpson is hosting the
lunch to give students the op-
portunity to meet Dr. Mary Irv-
ing, Director of Teacher Educa-
tion at Mary Baldwin, and R.
Wayland Jones of the State
Department of Education. They
will talk about the job oppor-
tunities for teachers, training
requirements, salaries, etc. If
you are interested in attending,
please call Ext. 286 to make a
reservation.
The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983, Page 3

 

 

Alumni Colleges

Summer academics expanded for 2nd year

Washington and Lee
University’s campus will be
busier than ever this summer
when the university’s expan-
ding summer programs expand
even further.

Although W&L does not con-
duct any credit-granting
academic programs in the sum-
mer, the university has in-
stituted a number of new sum-
mer programs during the last
several years.

According to Robert Fure,
director of summer programs
at W&L, the university’s cam-
pus will be the site of 15 dif-
ferent conferences, clinics, and
athletic camps from June 12
through August 5.

Those programs will include
three different sessions of the
W&L Alumni College which was
first offered a year ago. The
sessions will each have a dif-
ferent theme and will include

_ Elderhostel,

daily lectures and discussion
groups led by Washington and
Lee faculty members along
with recreational opportunities.

The first Alumni College,
“Law and Society,” is schedul-
ed for June 26 through July 2.
The second, focusing on the

- antebellum South, will be July

10 through July 16. The third,
which will have Japan as its
topic, will be July 31 through
August 6.

Another program that was in-
augurated a year ago and is ex-
panding this summer is the
which offers
lowcost, short-term residential
academic programs to older
adults. There’ will be two
Elderhostels at Washington and
Lee this summer. The first will
be July 3 through July 9 while
the second will be July 24
through July 30.

Faculty Autobiography |

Turner not a‘Straw in

By ALLEN S. ROBERTS
News Editor

The title of Dr. Charles W.
Turner’s newly-published
autobiography is misleading.
“Chuck” Turner’s character,
though humble before his faith,
contradicts the image of “A
Straw in the Wind.”

Dr. Turner overcame
childhood paralysis and the
economic adversity of the Great
Depression, earning a scholar-
ship which enabled him to enter
the University of Richmond at
the age of 15.

As a 19-year-old graduate,
Turner taught math, civics and
biology at Apple Grove High
School. For three years he
educated (and was teased by)
students nearly his age, ‘‘walk-
ing back and forth daily from
Oak Shade with the Harris boys,
laughing and joking all the
way.” “‘I soon decided,”’ Turner
recalls, “I would rather do
graduate work and apply for a
college teaching job.”

This he found here at
Washington and Lee, after ear-
ning his Ph.D. at the University
of Minnesota. Turner began
teaching history ‘‘on the hill”’ in
1946, when his classes were fill-

REWARD:
Offered for the
return of pet snake.
Extremely friendly
boa constrictor
about 5 ft. Contact
Bill Leachman
463-6785 or 2298.

ta tata Da bn be Be bn bb bb Lh Le he he he
i i i i i i i i hi i i i i i i i

 

    
 
 
    
  
 
 

ed by GI’s returning from the
war, some of whom were older
than their professor.

For 45 years, Dr. Turner en-
joyed “‘the teaching of history”
which “allowed me to tell a
great story and never tire...To
help a student, especially one

not doing so well, has been my |

life and work...The greatest
thing in my life was when I was
put in duPont Hall, Room 1 in
the basement, I have been able

Washington and Lee is one of
more than 500 colleges and uni-
versities participating in the
elderhostel program. Each of
the two sessions will involve ap-
proximately 50 participants.

The first program of the sum-
mer will be the Institute for Ex-
ecutives, a two-week confer-
ence in which middle-level ex-
ecutives engage in an intense
study of the humanities. This is
the third summer that W&L has
sponsored the institute, which
will begin June 12 and continue
through June 24.

Summer Scholars ’83, . sche-
duled for July 3 through July 30,
is a month-long program of
rigorous, college-level
academic work for students
who will be entering their senior
years in high school in the fall.
The coeducational program, of-
fered for the third time this
summer, is deSigned to give
college-bound high school

the Wind’

to work and see students, and
have my advanced classes.
What a great satisfaction to be
out of the way, and yet
available, when I was needed.”
Before he retired last spring,

‘Dr. Turner had traveled to

Europe and Latin America and
had attended summer schools
so that he could bring history to
life before his students. As a
professor and as chairman of

(continued on page 7)

Kimbrough, Novack

present prison paper

Emory Kimbrough Jr. and
David R. Novack, sociology
professors at Washington and
Lee University, presented a
paper on prison organization to
the 46th annual meeting of the
Southern Sociological Society in
Atlanta earlier this month.

Entitled ‘‘Organization
Theory as Applied to Prison
Organization and Analysis,”
Kimbrough’s portion of the
paper was written while he was
a participant in a seminar at
Worcester College, Oxford
University, during the summer

of 1982.

Novack’s contribution grew
out of his long-standing interest
in penology and criminology
and, more particularly, from
his participation in a National
Endowment for the Humanities
seminar on ‘Crime and Punish-
ment in America’”’ held at the
University of Virginia during
the summer of 1979.

Kimbrough, professor of
sociology, has been a member
of the W&L faculty since 1962
while Novack, associate pro-
fessor of sociology, joined the
faculty in 1976.

 

 

 

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This
Your Headquarter. For

Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality

 

 

students an opportunity to sam-
ple college life.

The Alumni _ Colleges,
Elderhostels, Institute for Ex-
ecutives, and Summer Scholars
are all staffed by members of
the W&L faculty.

Among the other programs on
the schedule at W&L this sum-
mer are athletic camps in both
basketball and lacrosse, the Na-
tional Institute for Trial Ad-
vocacy’s Trial Practice Clinic,
the Rockbridge Fine Arts Work-
shop, and the American
Academy of Judicial Education
conference.

For further information on
the summer programs, contact
Robert Fure, Director of Sum-
mer Programs, by calling or
writing the Office of Summer

June 18-June 28 — NITA Trial
Practice Clinic

June 19-June 24 — Boys Basket-
ball Camp

June 26-July 2 — Alumni Col-
lege: ‘‘Law and Society”’

June 26-July 1 — Girls Basket-
ball Camp

July 3 -July 30 — Summer
Scholars

July 3 -July 9 — Elderhostel
July 4 -July 31 — Rockbridge
Fine Arts Workshop

July 10-July 16 — Alumni Col-
lege; ‘“‘Antebellum South”

July 10-July 15 — Boys Lacrosse
Camp

July 17-July 28 — American
Academy of Judicial Education

July 24-July 29 — Girls Basket-
ball Camp
July 24-July 30 — Elderhostel

 

 

  
    
    

Pa Be ee ee een en Re ee ee Bee eee ee ee ee eee ee ee a fi alle ln ctl

 

  

 

Programs. July 31-August 6 — Alumni Col-
The complete schedule: lege: “Japan”

June 12-June 24 — Institute for July 31-August 5 — Girls

Executives Basketball Camp

le ————_S_SEE SI

 

 

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

BRICESTREET
BRICESTREET

BRICESTREET
BRICESTREET

APRIL 26

"It's The Place To Be"

sceemennnenamatineateateene esenae teaaenmenenntetentetaieniemamanaianmeemennemmnanmaemeedmmnttienteredameeneneneeemenaemnmentimemmmnmeninmesnnnieenemnaianimaanemnmemerneninemeensmeenemmanmemnnmmnmmmemmaanmedammnaanean
ee ae le ln ln ee ll le ll i lll all

 

 

ae

ee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee ee eee ee en ee Bl fe en tl et dn

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983

 

W&L Calendar

Thursday, April 21
9 a.m.-4 p.m. — Small Business Workshop. For more information
contact Chamber of Commerce at 463-5375.
3p.m. — Tennis: Generals vs. Bridgewater. Smith Field.
3 p.m. — Chemistry Seminar. 11th Annual Alumnus Visitor. “A
Membrane Biochemist’s View of Vision,’’ Dr. H. Gilbert Smith, ’68,
GTE Laboratories, Waltham, MA Howe 401. Preceded by tea at
4:30 in Howe 402.
7:30 p.m. — Film: Shakespeare film series: ‘Julius Caesar”
(Joseph Mankiewica; 1953) Reid Hall, Room 203. Free.

Friday, April 22
3p.m. — Reception: Blackboard Artists. DuPont Gallery.
4 p.m. — Burks Moot Court Competition finals. Moot Court Room,
Lewis Hall.
8 p.m. — Film “Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands” (Brazil, 1977:
106 minutes) sponsored by the W&L Film Society. Lewis Hall,
Classroom A. Free.

Saturday, April 23
1 p.m. — Baseball: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney (2) Smith Field.
8 p.m. — Film: ‘‘Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands.” Lewis Hall,
Classroom A. Free.
Away Athletic Events: Lacrosse: North Carolina. Track: Mount
St. Mary’s relays, Emmitsburg, MD.

Sunday, April 24
4 p.m. — Slide/Lecture; ‘“‘What’s New About Ancient Britain.”
Patrick Ottaway, British archaeologist and field officer for the
York Archaeological Trust, Sponsored by the English Speaking
Union. Marshall Library, VMI. Public invited. Free.

Monday, April 25

Golf: ODAC Championships. Lexington Country Club.
7:30 p.m. — Film: Shakespeare Film Series: ‘“‘Hamlet’’ (Laurence
O’Livier, 1948). Reid Hall, Room 203. Free.
8 p.m. — Lecture: Arkady Schevschenko. “‘A View from the
Kremlin,” Lee Chapel. Sponsored by Contact.

AWAY Athletic Events: Tennis: Virginia (at Homestead, Hot
Springs. Va.) J.V. Lacrosse: Hampden-Sydney.

 

 

 

© <em> © <em> © <> 0 <em> 0 <> © <> © <a> 0 <a 0 a 0 a 0

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

<a 0 <6 6 <a 6 <a
<a> © <a 0 a 0a 6 <=>

 

Hamric & Sheridan

JEWELERS

Watches and
Jewelry Repairs
GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

 

BUSCH
6-Pack

$2.29

 
 

Hand Engraving & Class Rings
il W. Nelson 463-2022

 

 

 

 

Chinese, Polynesian, and
American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia

—7\

-“Carry-out Available”
Open Tuesday through Sunday
Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10

Sun. Buffet 12-2:30—$4.25
463-9342

EAST LEX |

 

i i we ea

 

 

Glasgow Endowment

Polish poet lectures in spring

Piotr Sommer, a Polish poet,
critic, and translator, is the
Glasgow Visiting Poet and Lec-
turer at Washington and Lee
University for the spring term.

Sommer, who arrived in Lex-
ing on Sunday, will be in
residence during Washington
and Lee’s six-week spring term
which began Monday (April 18)
and will present readings from
his works as well as a series of
lectures.

The first of Sommer’s presen-
tations will be on Wednesday,
April 27, at 4:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium of the University
Library. Sommer will read in
English but will also give a
sample of how the poems sound
in Polish. The reading is open to
the public.

Sommer will give lectures on
May 11, May 18, and May 25 at 4
p.m., also in Northen Auditor-
ium. Those lectures will be open
to the public.

Born in Walbrzych, Poland, in
1948, Sommer was graduatcd

from the University of Warsaw
in 1973.

He is associate editor of a
monthly journal of letters
published in Warsaw.

Three volumes of Sommer’s
poetry have been published:
“In the Chair’’ (1977), ‘‘Keep-
sakes Left Behind’ (1980), and
“Subsequent World’’ (1983). He
is also the author of a volume of
children’s verse entitled ‘‘Be-
fore Bedtime”’ (1981).

English translations of Som-
mer’s work have appeared in
“Prairie Schooner’’; ‘“‘Shenan-
doah,”’ the Washington and Lee
literary magazine; ‘‘The
Honest Ulsterman,” published

in Northern Ireland; and,
“Eureka 12,’’ published in
Sweden.

In Poland, he has published
poetry in ‘‘Wiez,” “‘Tworzosc,”
“Nowy Wyraz,” ‘“Odra,’”’ and
other national periodicals.

His criticism and translations
of contemporary British, Irish,

and American poets appear
regularly in ‘Literatura na
Swiecie,”’ the journal of which
he is associate editor. He was
chief editor in December, 1979,
of an issue of that journal which
was largely devoted to the work
of Robert Lowell and John Ber-
ryman.

Sommer is currently trans-
lating the work of Frank
O’Hara.

The Glasgow Visiting Lec-
tureship is part of the Glasgow
Endowment Program estab-
lished at Washington and Lee
by the 1960 bequest of Arthur
Graham Glasgow and designed
to ‘“‘promote the art of expres-
sion by pen and tongue.”’

Past Glasgow visitors have
included novelists Katherine
Ann Porter, Robert Penn War-
ren, and Walker Percy;
dramatists Edward Albee and
Tom Stoppard; and _ poets
Robert Lowell, Howard
Nemerov, and James Dickey.

Film Society shows ‘Dona Flor’

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the
Brazilian film ‘‘Dona Flor and
Her Two Husbands” (1977, 106
minutes) at 8 p.m. Friday and
Saturday in Classroom ‘‘A’’ of
Lewis Hall. The film is in Por-
tugese with English subtitles.
There is no charge for admis-
sion and the public is invited.

Adapted from the novel by
Jorge Amado, ‘‘Dona Flor” is a
bright and bawdy comedy about
a young woman who re-marries
after her dissolute first husband

drops dead of a heart attack. —

However, her second marriage
(to a staid and respectable
pharmacist) is interrupted by
the spectral reappearance of
her first husband, whose
lechery and cnccny behavior are

 
   

 

BUD
12-Pack

$4.95

gn A gag gr i ei AA hedA Di db dat

VARNER |
& POLE

115 South Main Street

For your extra
} pieces of furniture.

 

undiminished .by his deceased
status.

‘Dona Flor’ is the most
popular film in the history of the
Brazilian cinema and is one of
the first Brazilian films to be
successful outside that country.
“Dona Flor’s’ star, Sonia

Lecture

Braga, is Brazil’s best-known
actress and sex symbol.

This delight ‘‘adult’’ comedy
contains nudity and rather ex-
plicit sexual scenes, but the
theme is so light-hearted that
nothing could be deemed offen-
sive.

Pres Wilson speaks

on first impressions

In his first speaking ap-
pearance before a_ student
group since assuming the
Washington and Lee University
presidency, President John D.
Wilson will address the College
Republicans on Tuesday, April
26. Wilson’s. speech, entitled,

‘First Impressions of
Washington and Lee,”’’ will be
followed by a question and
answer session. The meeting,
open to all students and
members of the community,
begins at 7:30 p.m. in room 114
of the University Center.

Pianist performs Tues.

Pianist Cheryl Lane Ryan,
lecturer in music at Hollins Col-
lege, will appear in concert in
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty’s Lee Chapel on Tuesday,
April 26, at 8 p.m.

The concert is being spon-
sored by the Music Division-at

NERS ARR RR 9 mma
(FE AON aac

 

 

e
The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

s 23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5968

venetian

Washington and Lee andis open .-
to the public at no charge.

Mrs. Ryan’s program will in-
clude works by Chopin,
Beethoven and Schumann.

A resident of Lexington, Mrs.
Ryan is a native of Boston and
began her studies at the New
England Conservatory of
Music. She earned degrees
from Boston University and
from the University of Illinois.

Before joining the Hollins
faculty, she taught music in
public school systems in both
Massachusetts and Virginia, in-
cluding two years at Lexington

High School.

In January 1982, Mrs. Ryan
joined soprano Ann Berlin for a
recital that was part of the
Washington and Lee Concert
Guild Series.
The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983, Page 5

 

Dirt

McDaniels strikes again

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

A Washington and = Lee
University archeological team
recently upheld the construc-
tion of a sewer line in Botetourt
County by discovering two In-
dian campsites on _ land
designated for the lines. Under
the direction of Anthropology
Professor Rodney McDaniels
and University archeologist
James Adams, the crew, hired
by the state and including some
W&L students, discovered

several artifacts and primitive

_ Research

William Webb Pusey III (right), author of a new volume about

tools. But the find, however, did

not warrant suspension or
rerouting of the project.

“The Botetourt County pro-
ject [featured on the April 18,
Channel 7 TV evening news]
was one of a number of contrac
tual survey jobs W&L has work-
ed on,’’ McDaniels. ‘‘Under the
Historical Preservation -Act of
1966, everytime a construction
firm gets federal funds, it must
clear its work with the State

Center for Archeological
in Williamsburg.

There they decide on the basis

   

Lexington’s Ann Smith Academy, discusses his book with Betty
Munger, manager of the bookstore at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. Entitled ‘‘Elusive Aspirations: The History of the Female
Academy in Lexington, Virginia,’ the book will be available from

the W&L Bookstore.

Internships near deadline

College students interested in
working in summer jobs in their
chosen professional fields
should apply now for the
thousands of corporate and
governmental internships and
work-study opportunities
available.

According to the Scholarship
Bank, most internships are
sponsored by major corpora-
tions and pay in the range of two
to three thousand for the sum-
mer. Many will pay students’
relocation expenses. These in-
ternships are good sources of
training and may lead to per-

manent employment as well as
invaluable contacts in the stu-
dent’s chosen field. In addition,
internees can qualify for
scholarships and other financial
aid from many of _ these
employers.

Many deadlines are near for
these programs. Students in-
terested in receiving more in-
formation about these intern-
ships and scholarships should
send a business sized stamped
self-addressed envelope to The
Scholarship Bank, 10100 Santa
Monica Blvd., Suite 750, Los
Angeles, CA 90067.

Hickman text lauded

A biology textbook written
by Washington and Lee Univer-
sity professor Cleveland P.
Hickman Jr. was recently hon-
ored by the Chicago Book Clinic
Annual Exhibit.

The third edition of the
volume entitled ‘Biology of
Animals,” published in 1982 by
the C.V. Mosby Company was
cited by the judges in the
Text/Reference category for its
exceptional handling of com-
plex subject matter as well as
its design and illustrations.

Hickman was the author of
the volume with Larry S.
Roberts of Texas Tech Univer-

sity and Frances M. Hickman,
emeritus professor at DePauw
University. The book’s chief
aim is to ‘‘present the concepts
and principles of zoology that
provide a basis for understand-
ing the nature, diversity, and
functioning of animals.”’

The 646-page book has 861 il-
lustrations, including 391 in col-
or. The first volume was pub-
lished in 1972 while the second
volume was published in 1978.

Hickman joined the W&L
faculty in 1967 after previously
serving as associate professor
of zoology at the University of
Alberta.

     
 

of the designated area’s history
whether or not to investigate
the area.”

Should the state center decide
a survey of an area is needed,

an archeological firm — often a
school in the area with an ar-

cheological curriculum — is
asked to submit a bid for the
contract to survey the area.

‘When an archeological team
surveys the area, there are
basically three phases of in-
vestigation. The first phase in-
volves a search for artifacts
and a survey of the area, a
general search. The second
phase begins with the discovery

of an artifact and investigation
of that artifact, its age, use, and
material. The third phase,
which is probably the only
phase which can uphold con-
struction of any project, in-
volves a thorough excavation of
the area should investigation of

the artifacts warrant this,”

noted McDaniels.

Only once has a crew
McDaniels instructed upheld
construction. An excavation in
Lebanon, Va., unearthed an In-
dian campsite of considerable
historical and archeological
value.

‘In the Botetourt survey we
decided there were enough sites
of that kind. There was no need
to investigate there more
thoroughly,’’ McDaniels said.
“Just because we find one ar-
rowhead they don’t need to
move a building.”

Sen. Harry F. Byrd Jr. (left) signs a campaign poster at a recep-

 

tion in his honor following his appearance at Washington and Lee

 

Byrd

(continued from page 1)

trying to solve all of our pro-
blems by more and more spen-
ding. We’ve become a ‘spend-a-
holic.’ You can’t get off that
binge without some discomfort.
The longer you put it off, the
more difficult it’s going to be
and the greater the conse-
quences will be.”’

On the subject of lifetime
tenure for federal judges, Byrd
cited legislation he once in-
troduced that would have re-
quired the Senate to review
each federal judge periodically
for the purpose of reconfirming
each judge.

“It is a question of account-
ability,” Byrd said. ‘‘Once a

 

3” CINEMA |

Buena Vista

261-2900

 

Nominated for 10 Academy

° THIS IS A HELL OF AWAY
ev TO MAKE ALIVING. -

YW ee
oN Tootsie
DUSTIN

 

 

Shows Sun.-Thurs. 7:15 only

Fri. & Sat. 7:15 & 9:10

Matinee Sat. only, 2:00 All seats $1.50
Mon. night all seats $1.50

 

*

a 2h ake

 

   

SNACK BAR

eee te tee He He He Hee eae ee He He
Welcome To :
: Springtime ¢
Jpiccioioioio doi ieiciooiokiok
HOT FUDGE &

HOT BUTTERSCOTCH |
SUNDAES faye

 

  

 

(federal) judge is confirmed,
then he has life tenure and, as a
practical matter, he has almost
total unaccountability,”’ Byrd
said. “I contend that in a
democracy, no one should be in
a position where, as a practical
matter, he or she is accountable
to no one.

“The only persons who have
life tenure and are accountable
to no one as a practical matter
are kings, queens, maharajahs,

 

and federal judges.”

 

CALEXING VA

Sat.-Sun. Mats 2:00 & Mon.
All Seats $1.50

 

Leche tA 463-3424

Ends Thurs. 7-9 “Year of
Living Dangerously’’( PG)

PYLE a7

TOM SELLECK
BESS ARMSTRONG

   

463-3543

12 AIN
LEXINGTON, VA

nds Thurs.
“One Dark Night” (pg)

PLLA

7:15-9

They grew up on
the outside of
society.

if The
i Outside

They were
om looking to
" belong.

© (Fa)

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983

 

Commentary

Banana Manana

By MARKHAM PYLE
Special to the Phi

Well, I’d hoped to be able to
write a short bucolic bit about
my hometown of Crosby, Texas
(pop. unnoticeable). I wanted to
tell y’all about what the boys
are up to down at the Gum Gully
icehouse; how the rice farmers
and the cattlemen are still
feuding down on Wahl Street;
and how old John Bob Lamkin
made the acquaintance of Mr.
Drastata’s prized Brahma bull.
It’ll just have to wait, though. I
simply must. enter the fray, and
consider with y’all the situation
in Central America.

The only point I want to
make, one that seems to have
been overlooked in the heat of
argument on the subject, is
this: Justice is not relative; but
it does not follow from this that
Tom Hayden and Alan Cranston
are necessarily right in saying
what it is. In Central America
or in Iowa. Justice (and, until
the next Excelsior, you'll just
have to take my word for it) is
an Ideal, which various court
systems may approximate to a
greater or lesser degree. If we
accept this proposition, it
follows that the two questions
we ought to ask about any court
system or any law case are: is
the process fair? And, is the end
morally right? We up here are
unfamiliar with Central
American legal process, and we
tend to confuse unfamiliarity
with injustice. Most of the
Western world operates, not on
the common law basis we know,
but on the basis of the old
Roman civil law. In, say, El
Salvador, this is mediated
through the Spanish ex-
perience; in Mexico or Loui-
siana, it is French in origin. But
these are basically the same;
and they are indeed unlike the
Anglo-American notions of law.
So, what is done in Central
America may seem very unlike

what we call just process of the
legal system. But it may on its
own terms quite as adequately
approximate the just ideal. We
can see if it does by asking what
criterion of the just end it ap-
peals to (preservation of pro-
perty, say, is even when abus-
ed, more just than the Sandinist
ideals will be), and whether its
process was fair and equitable
or whether it was skewed by
respect to persons or
ideological purity. It may be in
fact that civil-law constructs
are inherently less capable of
approximating justice. If this
were to be so, we should, in
practice, credit the attempts to
make the most of a bad job by
various regimes in attempting
to administer justice; and
where they err, we should try to
correct the unfortunate exigen-
cies of the situation. But we
must do so organically, by ex-
panding fundamental concepts
in the prevailing ideology which
conduce to just practice, rather
than by imposing alien struc-
tures on a a people. After all,
that’s the cultural imperialism
the Left is always whining
about when it’s directed at a
Mitterand or a Castro. Perhaps,
before we start frothing at the
mouth about the Salvadoran
government, legally elected
and properly constituted though
it is (nobody’s perfect, and we
can’t all be Castroite ter-
rorists), we might first look at
what they’ve got to work with,
what they’re trying to do, how
well they’re doing it with what
they’ve got...and what the alter-
native would be like. The nice
thing about rightist, Catholic
regimes in Central America is:
there is that in their ideology
and in their consciences which
allows repentance. The pro-
blem with movements that have
all the answers is that they
shoot you if you have questions.

 

Washington and Lee University music professor James T. Cook composes blackboard art which will
be part of the art installation in the university’s duPont Gallery this month. (Hinely photo for W&L)

Blackboards redefine gallery

When is a classroom not a
classroom?

The answer? When it is a
work of art, naturally.

And beginning April 20, the
art exhibition in Washington
and Lee University’s duPont
Gallery will be a classroom.
And vice versa.

DuPont Gallery’s latest offer-
ing is an art installation which,
explains duPont Gallery direc-
tor Debora Rindge, seeks to
transform and redefine the
traditional gallery or museum
space.

“Rather than treating the
gallery as a utilitarian environ-
ment which serves solely as a
showplace for art objects, the
installation incorporates the
gallery into the work of art,
making it an inherent element
of the piece,”’ explains Rindge,
an instructor in art history at
Washington and Lee.

A major feature of the duPont
Gallery installation will be a
series of blackboards on which
six Washington and Lee pro-
fessors made notations that
they would routinely make duir-
ng one of their lectures.

wont) THE COCKPIT

x

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UMIVERSITY

eft

FRIDAY APRIL 22

wort

Back After A Packed

House On A Tuesday During

The Winter Term!

 

9:30 til ?

The professor-artists who
created the blackboards repre-
sent a variety of subjects, rang-
ing from music to chemistry to
lacrosse. Gallery visitors will
be treated to visual lectures on
organic chemistry, plans for a
Generals’ lacrosse victory, and
a medieval method of musical
notation.

“‘Blackboard markings share
characteristics which are com-
mon to paintings, prints, and
drawings,” observes Rindge.
“The blackboard is flat and is
often filled with lines, shapes,
symbols, and colors — the basic
vocabulary of two-dimensional
art forms.

“Seen in the traditional
classroom, the marked black-
board is appreciated only for its
function as a support to the lec-
ture. When the blackboard is
removed from its practical con-
tex and viewed in the context of
an art gallery, it is seen
primarily for its visual forms
rather than its informational
content.”’

Rindge and W&L assistant art
professor Larry Stene recruited
the professors to become black-
board artists.

“We chose professors for
their potential in creating
visually interesting markings
based on their particular sub-
ject,’ Stene explained. ‘Each
of the professors we approach-
ed was more than happy to par-
ticipate. They took their work
quite seriously.”’

The six  professor-artists
whose blackboards appear in
the installation are James
Cook, assistant professor of
music;. Chuck O’Connell, assis-
tant professor of physical
education and _ assistant
lacrosse coach; Harrison
Pemberton Jr., professor of
philosophy; Robert Pour, in-
structor in mathematics; ©
James Keith Shillington, pro-
fessor of chemistry; and,
Pamela H. Simpson, associate
professor of art history.

Though central to the installa-
tion, the blackboards are com-
plemented by student desks, a
podium, a clock, and assorted
other furnishings that would
typically be found in a
classroom.

“With the installation we are
seeking to expand the visual
awareness of the viewer by sug-
gesting that the creation of art
occurs in many environments
outside of art studios,
museums, and galleries,’’ Rin-
dge added.

In addition to Rindge and
Stene, the committee that
organized the installation in-
cluded Washington and Lee
senior Amory LeCuyer and
W&L junior Peter Cronin.

DuPont Gallery is open to the
public without charge. The
gallery hours are 9 a.m. to 5
p.m. weekdays, 11 a.m. to 3
p.m. Saturdays, and 2 p.m. to 4
p.m. Sundays.

 

 

UNDERCLASSMEN

who like to attend

PARTIES

this fall at local colleges and would like to be

PHOTOGRAPHER

good 35mm camera & strobe needed

SOME EXPERIENCE

needed--must be reliable

GOOD SALARY

make money in fun settings

CALL THIS SPRING
ACTION PHOTOS 804-320-0580
ask for Randy or write 2733 Jimmy Winters Rd.,
Richmond, Va. 23235

 

 
Spring Term

Professors take groups

abroad during Spring

For the next six weeks
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty’s campus will reach well
beyond the city limits of Lex-
ington as W&L students literal-
ly will be spread across the
globe for the university’s six-
week spring term.

Washington and Lee is one of
about a dozen colleges and
universities to operate under an
academic calendar that in-
cludes a six-week term at the
end of the academic year.

The term is used for a wide
variety of special projects,
ranging from numerous off-
campus internships to several
study abroad opportunities.

This year, for instance, W&L
students will be studying in
England, France, Germany,
Spain, Japan, the Galapagos
Islands, and the Rocky Moun-
tains, tonamea few.

John M. Evans, professor of
English, will have 18 students
participating in the seminar in
England. In addition to spend-
ing four of the six weeks in Lon-
don, the students will travel to
places such as Bath, Oxford,
Stratford, and Cambridge dur-
ing two of the weeks.

G. Francis Drake, professor
of romance languages, and 12
students will be in Paris for the
six-week term. The course is
designed to give the students
direct exposure to the language,
culture, and people of France.
Students live with French
families while in Paris.

M. Kirkland Follo, instructor
in German, and nine students

Turner

will spend the term in
Bayreuth, Germany, while five
W&L students will be in Madrid
accompanied by a_ professor
from Southwestern of Memphis.

Minor L. Rogers, associate
professor of religion, has ac-
companied five students to
Japan where they will be study-
ing at Kansi Gaidai, a school in
Osaka.

Not all the off-campus pro-
grams involve foreign language
study of course.

A group of nine biology
students and W&L biology pro-
fessor Cleveland Hickman will
spend a major portion of the six-
week term in the Galapagos
Islands, Darwin’s ‘‘evolu-
tionary showcase”’ off the coast
of Ecuador. Meantime, 14 geol-
ogy students and W&L pro-
fessors Edgar Spencer and
Doug Burns will be in the Rocky
Mountains for three weeks of
the term.

In addition, the spring term
affords W&L students the op-
portunity for many off-campus
internships as part of indepen-
dent study. Students in politics
courses are interning in a varie-
ty of offices in Washington, for
instance, while a number of
journalism majors have intern-
ships with major television net-
works in New York as well as
with several newspapers. Four
W&L students are spending
part of the term working with
the artist Christo on a series of
islands in Biscayne Bay near
Miami.

 

(continued from page 3)
the W&L Fulbright Scholarship
committee, he helped W&L
students to win more than 60
Fulbright grants since 1948.

In recognition of the pro-
fessor’s dedicated service to
W&L, alumnus William M.
France created in 1981 a history
scholarship in Turner’s name.
Turner was also awarded
membership in the 0O.D.K.
Honorary Fraternity and
received the Pusey and Ring-
tum Phi prizes.

Turner’s autobiography
documents not only the years of
teaching that garnered these
honors, but also his heritage
and experience. A_ colorful
storyteller by profession,
Turner gives an anecdotal ac-
count of his mothers German
immigrant family, and how her
teaching at Walnut Grove,
Minn., brought her son to Lex-
ington.

One of Turner’s most popular
course offerings here was the

history of the Old West, affec-
tionately known as ‘‘Cowboys
and Indians.’ The professor re-
quired a 30 page research
paper, but gave an annual steak
fry at Goshen Pass.

While explaining history to
W&L students and the Bible to
his Sunday School classes at the
Manly Memorial Baptist Chur-
ch, Turner published 50 articles
and twelve histories.

His thirteenth volume, “A
Straw in the Wind,’’ is
dedicated to the ladies of the
Ruth Hamric bible class whom
he instructs. This exemplifies a
concern for individuals, which
dominates the story of his life.
By choice, his autobiography
tells the reader of the friend-
ships that have shaped Chuck
Turner’s years. Perhaps in-
advertantly the rich detail of
Turner’s accounts shows him to
be more humanist than _his-
torian, more observer than
Baptist. This is the strength of
“A Straw in the Wind.”’

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983, Page 7

 

Patrick Ottaway ,

British archaeologist speaks

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

Patrick Ottaway, British ar-
chaeologist and Field Officer
for the York Archaeological
Trust, will give three illustrated
lectures in Lexington during the
coming week.

“What’s New About Ancient
Britain”’ will be his topic at the
English Speaking Union’s
meeting on Sunday at 4 p.m. at
VMI’s Marshall Library. At this
meeting, which will be open to
the public, Ottaway will survey

dramatic archaeological
discoveries recently made in
England.

Ottaway’s two other lectures
will deal with important ar-
chaeological excavations in the
city of York. ‘“York — from the
Romans to the Tudors,”’ will be
his subject on Wednesday, April
27, at 7:30 p.m., at the Northen
Auditorium of the W&L library.
His second lecture will be on

“York — the Archaeology of a
Viking City’’ and will be given
on Thursday, April 28, at 7:30
p.m. in the Northen
Auditorium. In York, Ottaway
has examined an area of the
Roman town that existed there,
as well as a site within the
precinct of the city’s Norman
castle.

Both Lectures are sponsored
by W&L, and the Rockbridge
Chapter of the Archaeological
Society of Virginia is joint spon-
sor of the lecture on the Viking
Age in York. The lectures are
open to the public.

A graduate of Oxford, Ot-
taway has supervised the ex-
cavation of six major sites in
Winchester and York, and he
has also worked on numerous
sites in Lincoln, Southampton,
Colchester and Repton that are
related to his special interest in
the origins and development of

Koman and medieval towns in
England.

In York, Ottaway has ex-
amined an area of the Roman
town that existed there, as well
as a site within the precinct of
the city’s Norman castle.

At present Ottaway is doing
research on iron objects found
during the recent excavation in
York of Viking Age buildings.
From the Viking Age dig at
York it has been learned that
the city was the capital of an

important independent Viking
kingdom between 866 A.D. and
the Norman Conquest in 1066.
Thanks to the richness of the
finds, the York Archaeological
Trust has been able to mount a
major display illustrating the
social history of this Viking
kingdom. During the past year
this display has drawn
thousands of visitors from all
over the world.

9000GQVGCRGGGUVeYUUEVUUVUVeVUVUUUVUVUUUUUUVUQOQOQgQgOggggggag aga AR AAA RAARAAAARMRARMR MMH

KEIM MEME MERE MEAT KOKE KOIKE
WELCOME TO SPRING

 

 

The Cockpit

 
  

 

   

WASHINGTON AMD Lit
UNIVERSITY

 
 

 

Unlimited SALAD BAR
All You Can Eat

Includes Homemade
French Bread

$1.75 tax

 

 

Mon. - Fri. t1a.m. - 2 p.m.
KEKE KEXE NE KE KONE KONE KO LENE eee

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983

 

 

Blackboards detailing lacrosse plans (left) and a mathematics
lecture are juxtaposed as part of the art installation in Washington
and Lee’s duPont Gallery. Six W&L professors prepared
blackboards for the installation in which the gallery has been turn-
ed into a classroom. The subjects for the blackboards vary from
philosophy to chemistry to mathematics to lacrosse. (Hinely photo
for W&L)

~ Small business luncheon

and conference today

The most effective methods
for organizing and operating
small business will be discussed
during a special workshop on
the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity campus Thursday, April 21.

Designed for prospective and
new owners of small _busi-
nesses, the workshop will be
held in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall, the W&L law school
building. Registration begins at
8:30 a.m. The program will run
from 9 a.m. to4 p.m.

The workshop agenda will in-
clude discussions on such topics
as the forms of organization,
business records, marketing,
and insurance. Speakers for the
event will include Steven
Hobbs, assistant professor of
law at W&L; Greg C. Raetz, a
certified public accountant;
Larry Lamont, professor of ad-
ministration at W&L; attorney
J. Todd Jones; insurance agent
Margaret Kirkland, Carol
Brown of the U.S. Small

The registration fee is $7 and Business Administration, and
includes lunch in Washington — representatives of Lexington
and Lee’s Evans Dining Hall. financial institutions.

  
  

Good for you!

Time to get out and get into shape.
And, with lots of exercise, well

     

balanced meals are essential for
good health. It’s nice to know that a
Domino's Pizza is not only very
convenient, but also very nutritious.
We use only the highest quality,
100% natural ingredients.

23 S. Jefferson
463-7375

HOURS

11 a.m.-l am. Sun.-Thurs.
11 a.m.-2 a.m. Fri.-Sat.

    
         
   
    
 
 
  
  

bi
fe)
|
»
re)

D
PIZZA

 

Our drivers carry less than $10
Limited delivery area
© Copyright 1980 Domino's Pizza Inc

 

 

 

 

 

Pn SS SSS SSS SSS SSSR SSRs Reese

Off any
large pizza!

he Se SS NP aS

$1.00 off any 16” pizza.
One coupon per pizza.
Expires:

23 S. Jefferson
463-7375

4g
°
A
a
oa

  

 

 

 

Radford fellowship

Sharp awarded math fellowship

Henry Sharp Jr., professor of
mathematics at Emory Univer-
sity, has been named The
Rupert and Lillian Radford
Professor of Mathematics and
head of the department of
mathematics at Washington
and Lee University.

The appointment is effective
September 1, 1983.

The Radford Professorship
was created at Washington and
Lee in 1982 as the result of a gift
from the Rupert Radford Trust,
created by the late Rupert Rad-
ford of Houston, Tex.

Sharp has been a member of
the faculty at Emory for 25
years.

“We are indeed fortunate that
Dr. Sharp will become the first
Radford Professor of Mathe-
matics,” said William J. Watt,
dean of the college at Washing-
ton and Lee. “He is highly
regarded as a teacher with a
broad range of interests. He has
been a leader in the academic
and administrative affairs at
Emory. I am confident that he
will be a splendid addition not
only to the department of
mathematics at Washington
and Lee but to the entire W&L
community.”

A native of Nashville, Tenn.,
Sharp received his bachelor’s
degree in civil engineering from
Vanderbilt in 1947. He earned
both the A.M. and Ph.D. in
mathematics from Duke Uni-
versity.

He began his teaching career
as an assistant professor at
Georgia Tech in 1953. He joined
the faculty at Emory as an
assistant professor in 1956. He
was named associate professor
in 1958 and full professor in 1967.

Sharp has served on two
separate occasions — 1960-61
and 1972-75 — as chairman of
the department of mathematics
at Emory. He has held every
elective office for which he was
eligible as a member of the col-
lege at Emory.

He is a charter member of the
Vanderbilt chapter of Tau Beta
Pi, the engineering honor socie-
ty. He held a National Science
Foundation Faculty Fellowship
for 1964-65 at the University of
Virginia and received a Na-
tional Science Foundation
Grant for Scientific Research in
1968-69. He was a participant in
an NSF Industrial Research
Participation Program at the

Henry Sharp, Jr. (Hinely photo for W&L)

 

 
   

Lockheed-Georgia Company in
1969 and was a consultant for
Lockheed-Georgia Company in
the summer of 1980.

He has served as a consultant
with the State of Georgia Gover-
nor’s Honors Program in 1980
and 1981.

He is the author of four pre-
calculus textbooks published by
Prentice-Hall, Inc., and has
written numerous articles in
scholarly journals.

Sharp and his wife, Victoria
Alexander, are the parents of
two children: Henry, currently
a student at the University of
Virginia, and Margaret, cur-
rently a student at the Universi-
ty of Colorado.

Keller awarded research fellowship

Karl S. Keller, a Washington
and Lee University senior from
Scottsbluff, Neb., is ‘one of 42
students from throughout the
United States to be awarded a
three-year graduate fellowship
from the Office of Naval
Research.

Keller is a physics and

a tl ll a a
Re ee

engineering major at Washing-
ton and Lee. He will enter
graduate school in engineering
at the University of Virginia in
the fall.

This is the second year that
the Office of Naval Research
has conducted its graduate
fellowship program which is

 

 

ee

RED FRONT GROCERY

atti iin adie ame te a tee a et
Prices good thru Sat.

   
  
  

LOWENBRAU LIGHT $2.99 6-12 oz. bottles

HEINEKEN $3.99 6-12 oz. bottles
EATERS SNC eer erase
MOLSON ALE OR GOLDEN $2.99

a a
E'S, ee '™SR a aaa

6-12 02. bottles

 

a la
Eee eee

designed to support recent
outstanding graduates in their
study and research leading to
doctoral degrees in specified
disciplines.

The fellowship includes a sti-
pend ranging from $12,500 the
first year to $14,500 the third
year. In addition to the
stipends, the ONR pays the
Fellow’s institution full tuition
and fees.

“We are extremely pleased
for Karl,” said H. Thomas
Williams, associate professor of
physics at Washington and Lee
and Keller’s faculty adviser.
“This is a major honor for him
and an honor that he has earned
during his years here.”’

Keller was selected for the
fellowship on the basis of his
academic records, the Gradu-
ate Record Examination, and
recommendations. His
qualifications were reviewed by
a panel of scientists and
engineers selected by the
American Society for Engineer-
ing Education, which assists the
Office of Naval Research in
conducting the program.
The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983, Page 9

 

SOME W&L MEN ARE IMPATIENT
ABOUT THEIR GOCALS

SS HARRY FEUERSTEIN AND
. ge BOB ORTIZ, °83, ARE JUST
SUCH DETERMINED TYPES.
BOTH ENROLLED IN THE AR-
MY ROTC ACCELERATED
COMMISSIONING PROGRAM
BY WHICH THEY WILL EARN
OFFICER’S COMMISSIONS IN
JUST OVER TWO YEARS. BOB
EVEN EARNED A SCHOLAR-
SHIP THROUGH THIS IM-
PRESSIVE, POPULAR OP-
TION AMONG COLLEGE
SOPHOMORES. THIS PRO.
GRAM RESULTS IN THE
LEADERSHIP AND MANAGE-
MENT CHALLENGES OF AN
ARMY OFFICER UPON
GRADUATION.

 

APPLICATIONS ARE BEING
ACCEPTED NOW; VISIT OR
CALL CAPTAIN KELLER AT
THE MILITARY SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT: 463-4730 or
CAMPUS 242.

   

 

ARMY ROTC

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983

Sports

 

Generals outmanned by Cavaliers

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

Last Tuesday’s 22-4 shellack-
ing of William and Mary seem-
ed to be an indication that the
Washington and Lee lacrosse
team would be capable of being
competitive against the Univer-
sity of Virginia.

But when the fourth-ranked
Cavaliers outscored’ the
Generals 11-3 in the second half
to roll to a 19-7 victory Sunday
on Wilson Field, new life was
given to the topic of whether it
would be logical for the pro-
gram to abandon Division I for
Division III.

Coach Jack Emmer indicated
that it is likely that the team
will not play as many strong
teams such as Maryland, North
Carolina and Syracuse, as it
now does. Over the past 10
years, W&L’s schedule has in-
cluded at least five teams that
qualified for that year’s eight-
team post season tournament.

“We will look at the strength
of our recruits and decide if we
want to continue playing the top
teams as often as we do,’”’ Em-
mer said. ‘“‘Even if we decide
not to, I think we can remain
Division I,’’ he added.

Emmer indicated that the
Generals will continue to play
Virginia every year, given the
in-state rivalry.

Remarked co-captain in John
Doub, ‘“‘I’d like to see us con-
tinue to play teams like U.Va.
High school players look at our
schedule and want to play the

 

W&L defender Steve Conboy wards off Cavalier Mike Caravana in the Generals 19-7 loss last Sunday.
After the loss W&L stands at 3-4 and will travel to North Carolina on Saturday. (Hinely photo)

tough teams we face. Eventual-
ly, though, we may have to look
at Division III if (more
academic) scholarships aren’t
given to lacrosse players.”’

In a team meeting Monday,
the discussion centered around
the outlook for the remainder of
the season, particularly Satur-
day’s game at North Carolina.

‘We've got to bounce off the
deck rather than feel sorry for
ourselves,” said Emmer. “We

have to meet the challenge. We
knew Virginia had more ability
than we did, but I assumed we
would be mentally prepared. I
didn’t think I had to fire them
up because that’s the only way
to overcome their great talent.
We didn’t rise to the occasion.
We didn’t have the right mental
attitude.”

A three-goal flurry in the last
4:44 of the second quarter
enabled the Generals (3-4) to

Baseball mired in slump

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s
baseball team lost four of its
first six games after exams to
drop to 3-5-1 in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference and
4-9-1 overall.

W&L defeated Catholic
University once and tied
Maryville College. The
Generals lost to William and
Mary, Catholic, Maryville and
Lynchburg.

“I’m not too happy, but we’re
still in the thick of things,”’ said
W&L Coach Jim Murdock re-
garding his team’s position in

the ODAC race. ‘“‘We didn’t an-

ticipate being this low at this

time. The one-run-games are
hurting us,’’ he said.

“Defensively we're still very
strong. We are making very few
errors,’’ Murdock stated. ‘Our
base running has been improv-
ed too,’’ Murdock said.

' “Our shortcomings have been
our hitting and pitching,” Mur-
dock said.

W&L lost its first game after
examinations 12-2 to William
and Mary at Smith Field on
April 12.

Junior Kevin Holden and
sophomore Mike Jacoby col-
lected the only hits for the

FLORIST &
GREENERY

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
4703) 463-9152

 

Generals.

Senior Pat Jordan took the
pitching loss for the Generals.

Last Thursday at Catholic
University the Generals won
the first game of the double-
header 9-2, but lost the second
game 6-5 in eight innings.

Sophomore Billy White pitch-
ed a complete game three-hitter
in collecting the win in the first
game.

The Generals scored twice in
both the second and third inn-
ings and added four runs in the
fourth inning to put the game
out of reach.

Jacoby and junior Mike

(continued on page 11)

Shop early for Mother's Day.

And while you're here, pick up some
Wine, cheese and imported beer.

close with 8-4 at halftime.

Until then, Virginia had its
way, despite some ragged ball
handling and passing. Four
unanswered goals within the
first 5:38 of the second quarter
made it 6-0, and with 6:54 left
before intermission, the lead
was 7-1.

Then, within less than a
minute, Doub rifled two long
bouncers past a screened J.B.
Meyers. Virginia’s Brian

Rogers, who finished with five
goals, and W&L’s Stu Kiehne
exchanged scores to end the
half.

The teams swapped goals
early in the second half, then
the Cavaliers took complete
control, they led by seven at the
end of the third. U.Va. emptied
their bench in the final period
but the Cavs continued to pour it
on, registering seven goals to
W&L’s two. Jeff Mason manag-
ed to beat the final buzzer for
the Generals seventh goal.

Had it not been for W&L
goalie Phil Aiken, U.Va. might
have reached 30 goals.

Aiken was sharp early on,
making five tough saves in the
game’s opening four minutes.
He denied Virginia’s crease at-
tackman, Paul French, from
point-blank range on five occa-
sions.

Rogers, however, had no such
problems. The 5-9, 175-pounder
hit off a fastbreak, took a Mike
Caravana feed in the slot, then
fired in a rebound for three
first-half. goals. Before he sat
down, Rogers connected on
another fast break and cranked
up for a bullet from deep out-
side.

Shots attempted indicate, as .
much as anything, Virginia’s
domination. Virginia had 59 to
W&L’s 31. Meyer and two other
goalies stopped only half of
W&L’s 14 shots that were on
goal.

Top-ranked Syracuse comes
to Wilson Field on April 30.

 

Netters drop close
matches; fall to 6-12

By DAVID STUART
Phi Sports Writer

Lynchburg College capitaliz-
ed on four three-set victories,
including all three doubles mat-
ches, to defeat W&L 6-3 in Tues-
day’s tennis action at Lynch-
burg.

In singles’ action, however,
No. 1 General, Craig Cannon,
stunningly upset Lynchburg’s
two time ODAC player-of-the
year Buzz Fry 6-3, 6-2. A ‘‘pretty
psyched’’ Cannon said ‘“‘it was
just the best match I’ve played
all year.”

“He likes to hit at the
baseline” said Cannon of Fry, a
junior t and 1961 Al Americat.

 

116.N. Main (where Main & Jefferson moet)
463-3683

 

“tand I just gave him short balls
and passed him at the net,”
Cannon’s win should give him a
strong bid for the Division III
NCAA Championships Tourna-
ment held May 12-14.

In other action, No. 2 Steve
Denny defeated Max Hender-
son of Lynchburg 6-4, 6-3
to keep his bid for the National
Championships alive. Andy
Haring won the No. 4 singles 6-4,
6-4 to tie Lynchburg at 3-3
before W&L lost the doubles
matches.

The loss to Lynchburg was
the Generals sixth consecutive
match loss bringing the
season’s won/loss record to
6-12. Commenting on a winless
four match road trip to Florida
over spring break, tennis coach
Gary Franke added op-
timistically, ‘We are playing
our best tennis (of the season
now) and have lost to some good
teams.”

Four of the five defeats came
on the spring break road-trip to
Florida. W&L lost to Stetson,
6-3, and Rollins 8-1 in Florida,
then to Emory 7-2 Saturday,
and Davidson 9-0) Sunday, com-

(continued on page 11)
Sports

 

Golfers host 7th
ODAC tourney

The Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship
Tournament returns to the Lex-
ington Country Club this Mon-
day and Tuesday, April 25-26
when Washington and Lee
entertains six teams for the
seventh annual installment of
the 36-hole event.

The Generals, who staged the
ODAC’s first golf tournament
on April 18, 1977, will welcome
Bridgewater College, Catholic
University, _Hampden-Sydney
College, Lynchburg College,
Randolph-Macon College, and
Roanoke College. Lynchburg’s
Hornets are defending cham-
pions: Roanoke’s Maroons won
in 1980 and 1981; Lynchburg in
1979, W&L in 1977 and 1978.

“It’s always been a com-
petitive tournament. No one
runs away with it each year and
I don’t see anyone doing it this
time,” offers W&L head coach
Buck Leslie. Lynchburg’s title
last spring came by one stroke
(611 to 612) over Roanoke,
which placed second by one
stroke over Washington and Lee
in the tournament’s closest
finish.

Play will begin each morning
at 8:30 on the par 71, 6,444-yard
Lexington course. Each college
will enter six golfers, from
whom the top four scores com-
prise the team’s total. The top
seven individuals will receive
All-Conference honors.

W&L’s squad will include the
five players who competed last

Track & Field
Generals

By CHRIS FULTON
Phi Staff Writer

Spring break for the universi-
ty doesn’t mean break for the
track team — it means bearing
down again after the hiatus of
exam week. After exams the
track team resumed practice
with two-a-days.

Saturday, April 9, W&L sent
11 men with assistant coach
David Friedfield to the
Christopher Newport College
Invitational. W&L picked up
three wins and three meet
records with junior Angus
McBryde running to the win-
ner’s circle twice in the 1,500
meter and the 5,000 meter runs
and sophomore Mark Pem-
broke in the 800 meter.

McBryde ran the 1,500 in four
minutes flat, missing the school
record by a half second and set-
ting a meet record. Running the
5,000 for the first time,
McBryde slashed the school
record by 23.6 seconds and set a
meet record with a time of
15:11.7. Pembroke ran a 1:58.0
meet record time in the 800
meters.

A meet scheduled for Friday,
April 15 against Lynchburg,
Eastern Mennonite, and Rad-

weekend in the fourth annual
Virginia Tech ‘‘Gobbler
Classic” plus a sixth to be
decided during this week’s
practices. The five are seniors
Tim Webb and Frank English,
juniors Whit Kelly and Steve
Jones and freshman Turner
Friedman.

Webb carded a 157 to lead
W&L at the 36-hole Gobbler
Classic, which had Friday play
at the Blacksburg Country Club
and Saturday competition on
the Virginia Tech course. His
score included the team’s
lowest round, a par-72 on Fri-
day.

Friedman added a 159, Kelly
a 162, English a 164, and Jones a
165 as the Generals placed 14th
in a 16-team field. Unhindered
by rain on Friday and cold
winds on Saturday, Virginia
Tech won the event.

“Coming off W&L’s spring
break we were a bit rusty in
Blacksburg,” offered Leslie.
“‘We shot a lot of 81s and 82s
which were just a few strokes
from being good rounds. With
good practice time this week we
should be able to get lower
scores at the ODAC Champion-
ships.

W&L’s schedule this week in-
cluded dual match competition
with Bridgewater, Lynchburg,
Hampden-Sydney, and Newport
News on Tuesday at the In-
gleside Country Club in Staun-
ton. The Generals took a 2-0
record into the event.

post three

ford was postponed until Mon-
day, the 18. Radford and
Eastern Mennonite could not
participate; W&L lost to Lynch-
burg 85-60. “The break hurt
us,”’ said Coach Norris Aldrige,
referring not to the vacation
break, but the ten days of of-
ficial practice missed during
exams.

Against Lynchburg, winner’s

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983, Page 11

 

 

Time Out....

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

...Much has transpired since
we chatted last. Here are some
thoughts that may make you
want to take a second look at
those events. I must first speak
of those boys from Raleigh (got
it right this time). Other than
the fact that the Pack was bless-
ed (Jim Valvano should be
canonnized for sainthood), the
reason N.C. State came back
from Albuquerque smiling was
that Houston and most impor-
tantly, Guy Lewis, were their
own worst enemies. When
Houston slowed things down
midway through the second
half, the sixth man on the floor,
‘‘Mo Mentum,”’ put on a State
jersey. It left me wondering
what the Cougars would have
done this year if they had been
able to combine their great
talent with some solid coaching
instead of subsisting the entire
year solely on the former...

..[t seems that Hershel
Walker has started to play foot-
ball again since our last
meeting. I can’t deny the man’s
phenomenal talent. What I can

point out though, is that while
he is ripping up the league, he
would be performing at least as
well in college where he would
be raising his market value:
This would prevent his hurting
the game by his hardship deci-
sion, a result whose damage is
not measureable in dollar
signs...

...Of course, there was also
the Masters. Not discounting
Senor Ballesteros’ stellar final
day performance, the close of
this year’s tourney in Augusta
was a most pitiful performance.
Going into Monday’s final round
three of the best, Watson,
Stadler, and Floyd, along with
Ballesteros all were contenders
for the green jacket. Yet when
the Spaniard started eagle-
birdie the trio of former cham-
pions died instantly. This is a
sad commentary on the game
and its participants when no one
rises to meet the challenge. The
only thing that saved The
Masters was the winner’s per-
formance. Ballesteros was a
champion while the others step-
ped out of his way...

...The Jersey Prophet
reminds me that I forgot to in-

clude his projected order of
finish in the big leagues. For
those interested, the Garden
State Guesser has it Milwaukee,
New York, Baltimore, Boston,
Detroit, and Cleveland in the
AL East; Chicago, Kansas City,
California, Oakland, Seattle,
Texas, and Minnesota in the AL
West; Montreal, Philadelphia,
St. Louis, Pittsburgh, New
York, and Chicago in the NL
East and Los Angeles, Atlanta,
San Diego, San Francisco,
Houston and Cincinnati in the
NL West. He said it, not me. The
Prince did leave me with this,
though. ‘‘The Islanders will not
repeat. Watch Chicago.”’ He
muttered something else about
the Rangers being in first place
but he’s been under some strain
lately so I sent him back to his
room and told him to take a
rest. (How’d you like your
Kingdom to be New Jersey? )

One thought before I go:
There are 57 horses still train-
ing for this year’s Kentucky
Derby. The only situation that is
equally amusing is the race for
the Democratic Presidential
nomination.

 

Baseball

(continued from page 10)
Walsh paced the Generals’ of-
fensive attack with two hits
each.

In the second game the
Generals tied the game at 5-5 in

e

laurels went to Charlie Alcorn
in the shot-put, Eric Nelson in
‘the discus and Alan Armitage in
the 110 meter high hurdles. Ar-
mitage set a new school record
on March 25 against Newport
News, posting a time of 15.6
seconds; this broke his own
record. Pembroke won the 800
meter and McBryde won the
1500 meter run.

 

Tennis

(continued from page 10)

ing home. Including the last
home match before exams that
W&L lost 5-4 to Albany State
(SUNY), the tennis team’s win-
loss record stood at 6-11.

Before the Stetson match,
junior Jim Irwin beat
sophomore Andy Haring for the
No. 3 singles position and
freshman Scott Adams won the
No. 5 singles spot from junior
Charlie Kalocsay during intra-
squad challenge matches. Irwin
had won six matches and lost
five at No. 5 (singles) while
Haring posted a 49 match
record at No. 3. Freshman stan-
dout Adams had the most wins
(8) playing No. 6, which hap-
pened to.be twice the victories

Kalocsay had at the close of
March.

Oddly, in spite of four of six
singles positions being juggled,
Jim Irwin’s singles victory 6-1,
6-4 at Emory was the only win in
the four positions that changed.
Franke said the positions are
settled for the rest of the year
and “‘that’s where they (single’s
players) belong.”’

The double’s play won half
the matches on the road with
the No. 2 pair of Jim Irwin and
Anthony Frens capturing two
victories 7-5, 6-4 over Stetson

and 2-6, 6-2, 6-3 at Rollins. The

No. 1 doubles team of Craig and
Steve Denny, each of whom
posted a singles victory on the
trip, defeated Stetson 3-6, 6-3,

the seventh inning, but yielded
a run in the bottom of the eighth
inning.

Walsh led the Generals with
two hits and knocked in the ty-
ing run in the seventh inning to
send the game into extra inn-

ings.

Senior Marty Thomas pitched
the entire game taking the loss
for the Generals.

Last Saturday at Maryville
the Generals lost the first game
of the doubleheader 9-8 and tied
the second game 8-8.

Seniors Jody Harris and Chris
Cavalline both had two hits for
the Generals in the first game.
Walsh also had two hits and five
runs batted in.

In the second game the
Generals scored eight runs in
the second inning, but the
Generals’ pitching could not
shut down the Scots and the
game ended in a deadlock.

Murdock said that the game
will not be continued and will be
counted in the standings as a
tie.

Lynchburg College, the defen-
ding ODAC champions, jumped
on W&L for six runs in the first

 

 

 

inning and defeated the Gene-
rals 19-5 Tuesday.

Harris led the Generals offen-
sively with three hits. Golden
and Senior Jim Daly each had
two hits.

Starter Marty Thomas took
the loss for the Generals.

The Generals play a double-
header against Hampden-Syd-
ney at home on Saturday at 1
p.m. and face Emory & Henry
in a doubleheader at Smith
Field on Tuesday.

W&L travels to Eastern Men-
nonite for another doubleheader
on Monday.

“‘We’re going to have to get
supreme efforts by our players
over this stretch,’ Murdock
stated. ‘‘They have to maintain
good concentration,” he said.

Murdock noted that the seven
games in five days will put a
strain on his pitching staff.
“Our season depends on our
pitchers and there is just a little
more pressure on them now.”
said Murdock.

Murdock said that freshman
ourfielder Hugh Finkelstein will
probably be out for the rest of
the season. Finkelstein was in-
jured in the Maryville game.

    

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and -

CP Vu Ce eR eee Lay

Oh

$999

  

a 600 E. Nelson St. Lexington PHONE 463-7000

BUT

 
 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1983

   
  

HAPPY HOUR 5-8 B®

the moose is loose 9-1

  

‘the MOOSE is LOOSE 9-1

spend A NIGHT at the OPERA—ITS
CES TS hs

ACTIVEWEAR
HEADQUARTERS

ane
Rugby shirts; Shorts; palms

Pants; Boston Traders; Ppa ae ae

Canterbury; Cambridge
Dry Goods my | $ MAKE RESERVATIONS

NOW
toe
For Spring Weekends
and Private Parties

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

VOLUME 82

Ring-

NUMBER 26

 

>

NIVERSITY LIDRARY

| =

NIVERSITY

N, VA. 244850

APR 2.9 1983

tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia April 28, 1983

 

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

Shevchenko speaks on Soviet espionage

By ALLEN S. ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

The audience at Washington
and Lee University did not
gather only to hear former
Soviet ambassador Arkady
Shevchenko warn that ‘‘the
Soviet leadership’ is
dangerous.”

What pricked the ears of the
capacity crowd at Lee Chapel
Tuesday night was Shev-
chenko’s description of Soviet
intelligence and espionage ac-
tivities. The defector, who once
advised Soviet Foreign Minister
Andrei Gromyko and United
Nations Secretary General Kurt
Waldheim, found it ‘“‘incredible
how easily the Soviet  in-
telligence people operate in this
country.”

Shevchenko said that among
the Russian diplomatic corps in
.the United States, ‘“‘half of the
professional personnel claim to
be diplomats, but they’re pro-
fessional intelligence people.
They are spies — KGB guys, as
you call them in this country.”
This statement echoes the
French government’s estimates
that one-third of the Soviet func-
tionaries in France work full-
time for the KGB of the GRU
(their military intelligence
agency). Shevchenko also noted
the startling expulsion earlier
this month of 47 Soviet
diplomats from France. French
President Francois Mitterand
ordered the mass deportation
after his Interior Ministry
reported a disturbing increase
in Soviet intelligence efforts on
French territory.

Although Shevchenko said the
KGB is not as powerful as they
are popularly perceived in the
West, he added that “‘no nation
in the history of humanity ever
established such a kind of enor-
mous, huge intelligence and es-
pionage machinery.” This vast
network, Shevchenko warned,
may include Russian exchange
students, visiting professors
and other apparently harmless
characters. He said many of
these may be ‘co-opted’ to
complete a secret assignment
for the KGB. Shevchenko
described a captain of the
Soviet navy who, enjoyed while
working in the U.S. with an in-
ternational conference on the
Law of the Sea, complete access
to research centers. Shev-
chenko said the man only had to
give his name to obtain
documents involving American
naval programs. The Soviet
naval officer, Shevchenko said,
used the opportunity to explore
the vulnerability of Russian
submarines, which are more
‘noisy’ than their USN

 

Former Soviet Ambassador Arkady Shevchenko talks with Washington and Lee University students
following his talk in Lee Chapel Monday night. (Cronin photo for W&L)

counterparts. ‘‘Americans have
to understand,’’ he said, ‘‘that
most of the people who come
from the Soviet Union come
here with a specific purposes —
to steal or to get something

from this country which is in the
interest of the Soviet Union.”
This kind of free informa-
tional flow is, in Shevchenko’s
words, “the weakness and at
the same time the —_— of

Executive Committee

Number of cold checks

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee
confronted Monday the peren-
nial problem of student ‘‘cold”’
checks. In its monthly report’
the Cold Check Committee
reported it may need additional
funding from the Executive
Committee unless students
begin paying the $600 outstand-
ing on bad checks, and only if
merchants turn in more checks
before the end of spring term.

“T think students are abusing
the privilege this year,’’ said
Randall Jacoby, treasurer of
the Cold Check Committee. The
chairman of the Cold Check
Committee, Jim Baldwin, did
not agree with Jacoby.

“I don’t think you could say
they are abusing it. Merchants
are turning in more checks now
because of the end of school,”
Baldwin noted, referring to let-
ters received by the EC and
CCC from merchants who com-
plained that no action had been
taken on bad checks they had
submitted.

Vice-President Morgan Grif-
fith proposed stiffer penalties
for bad checks. If no action is
taken, Griffith feared ‘‘the
whole university could end up
losing the Cold Check priv-
ilege.”’

EC President Bennett Ross
suggested that the CCC, which
has no power to make students
appear at their meetings and
pay the checks, refer problem
cases to the Student Control
Committee. Ross also proposed
that EC funds be made avail-
able to the Cold Check Commit-
tee if the need arises.

In other action Monday night,
the EC heard year-end reports
from the students on the Facul-
ty Executive and Student
Health Committees. In the lat-
ter committee, which has only
met twice this year, student

   
  

Baby Doe

 

 

the American society.’’ The
former Under _ Secretary
General at the U.N. emphasized
the freedom of travel Soviet
diplomats enjoy, but which is
denied their American counter-

increasing

representative Nelson Patter-
son questioned the need for ad-

dition athletic trainers, citing .

one away J.V. lacrosse game
where no medically trained
representative was present for
either team.

“If, as the student health
handbook states, ‘the goal of
W&L is to provide health ser-
vices of the highest quality,’ I
question the present lack of suf-
ficient trainers to accompany a
lacrosse team where injuries
are common,”’ Patterson said.
He noted that the two trainers
now employed by the university

Inside the Phi

page 2

Sigma Nu is back

page 3

Coach of the year Buck Leslie

parts in Moscow. ‘‘Soviets now
like to talk about parity,’’ said
Shevchenko, ‘‘but there is no
parity in espionage activity.”

While he was Soviet Am-
bassador to the U.N., Shev-
chenko said he discovered eight
of the 13 Soviet nationals in the
Secretariat were operatives of
the KGB or GRU, and the re-
maining five cooperated with
the spies.

Their efforts often focus on
stealing or illegally buying ‘‘in-
formation about sophisticated
technology” which the US.
government defines as state
secrets. Shevchenko offered ex-
amples of this kind of theft,
most notably the Soviet Sputnik
launching, which suddenly pre-
empted a long-term American
program. While he acknowledg-
ed the ‘‘brilliant men’ who
developed the Russian satellite,
Shevchenko said_ stolen
technology and a more fluid
bureaucratic process ensured
the Soviet success.

The advance of Soviet
research and development pro-
grams, he explained, is not
slowed by the type of par-

(continued on page 5)

were overworked and, by their
own confession, understaffed.
The EC agreed to investigate
the matter.

The selection of a new student
chairman for the Student
Telephone Union (STU) was
also debated. STU chairman
Lee Feldman argued in favor of
having next year’s EC choose a
chairman for the remainder of
the spring term and next year.
Len Howard, secretary-elect
for next year’s EC, agreed,
noting that the three applica-
tions received could be review-
ed by the new EC this week.

page 8

 

2 1k. 7

Sy ae
V8 2

YO,26
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1983

 

Commentary

Baby Doe rule?

By TED LeCLERCQ
Phi Staff Writer

The Department of Health
and Human Services has once
again tried to administer a law
that is both unjust and ine-
quitable. In the last two months,
HHS has unsuccessfully at-
tempted to enforce the ‘squeal
rule’ and the ‘baby doe rule.’

On Febuary 25, HHS, under
Richard Schweicker, attacked
the privacy of minors with the
‘Squeal Rule.’ As reported in
the Washington Post, the rule
forced doctors to notify parents
if their minor child received
contraceptives from a federally
funded clinic. However, this un-
just notification rule was struck
down permanently Mar. 2 ina
Washington D.C. courtroom.

Most recently, Margaret
Heckler, the new head of HHS,
attacked the judgement of
pediatricians and parents with
the ‘Baby Doe Rule.’ This policy
shift would require doctors to
prolong severly handidcapped
infants’ lives regardless of pro-

’ gnosis. The new rule forced
hospitals to post signs in every
delivery room and nursery say-
ing that withholding food or or-
dinary medical care from in-
fants is a federal offense. The
sign also included a toll-free
hotline number that anyone
suspecting a violation could use
to notify Washington. This call
would bring a barrage of
bureaucrats swarming through
the hospital. If there was a
violation, the hospital would
then lose all federal funding.

The concept of a general
policy to protect the interests of
handicapped infants is a sound
idea. The anguish and conflict
caused by a horribly deformed
infant and the question of what
to do is an extremely com-
plicated issues. Of course,
doctors are interested in giving
all proper care in supporting
the health of infants. However,
to force the indefinite use of ex-
pensive equipment and valu-
able physicians’ time without
regard for the prognosis would
be irresponsible. The physician
is interested in the quality of life
now and in the future. This so
called ‘‘quality of life’ is the

most important issue. The

‘*Bab Doe _ Rule’’_is
Inaugural
address

May 19th

Alabama Chancellor to pre-
sent Inaugural Address at W&L

Thomas A. Bartlett, chancel-
lor of the University of
Alabama System, will address
the inaugural convocation at
Washington and Lee University
when President John D. Wilson
is formally installed on May 19.

Bartlett’s address _ will
precede the ceremony in which
Washington and Lee Rector
James M. Ballengee will ad-
minister the formal oath of of-

 

Washington’s way of saying
that the bureaucrats are better
qualified to judge the ‘“‘quality
of life’ than doctors. The HHS
action shows their insensitivity
and ineptness in dealing with a
sensitive ethical isssue.

Yet Heckler’s department
went right ahead with a rule
that conflicted directly with the
opinions of the baby’s doctors
and parents. What made this
rule such an abysmal failure at
regulating handicapped infant
care? Further, why did the
government feel it is more
qualified to decide this difficult
question?

The most glaring problem of
the ‘Baby Doe Rule’ is that it
strips doctors of any judgment
in their field of expertise.
Granted, there may be a pro-
blem with doctors erring on the
side of the parents instead of the
infants. Yet, with a hotly con-
tested ethical question, is there
ever really a totally correct
way to go? In this difficult situa-
tion, it is preposterous for an
‘outsider’ like the government
to be in control. To place the
power under total government
control is to make a mockery of
those most informed.

Not only did the rule replace
all doctor’s judgment, but
words like ‘handicap’, and
‘customary medical care, are
vague and unspecific. For such
a powerful, pre-emptive rule to
be ambiguous is unthinakble.
Extreme handicapped condi-
tions, such as brain death,
would now require life support
indefinitely. The prolongation
of a hopeless life with addi-
tional agony spread all around
would be unavoidable. It is the
doctor along with the parents
who should decide these ques-
tions.

Although the delicate ethical
questions raised by severly han-
dicapped infants were recently
brought under governmental
control with the “Baby Doe
Rule,’ on Apr. 14, a U.S. District
court Judge enjoined HHS from
enforcing the rule. In his ruling,
Judge Gerhard Gesell called
the HHS actions ‘‘arbitrary and
capricious,” and further stated
it was an_ ill-considered
response to ‘‘one of the most dif-
ficult and sensitive medical and

Notes

fice to Wilson. The new presi-
dent will then make his
response.

The inauguration will be con-
ducted in front of Lee Chapel
and will begin at 3 p.m. with the
inaugural procession which will
include the university’s trus-
tees, faculty, and student
representatives, delegates from
other universities and colleges,
foundations, and learned so-
cieties, representatives of
alumni groups, and the presi-
dential party.

The public is invited to attend
the inaugural ceremonies.

 

 

“HURRY, SENOR REAGAN —~ WE ARE RUNNING LOW ON AMMUNITION!’
Commentary

Political scrabble

Old-Time Democrats are, too.

The people who are CALLED
‘Liberal’ nowdays are in fact

By M. SHAW PYLE
Phi Staff Writer

You've probably noticed that
this is a fairly politicized cam-
pus. Really. We don’t riot that
often, but we do TALK politics a
lot. I have noticed that some
people are a little confused
about terms, though. I’d like to
clear that up.

Now, the job of a political col-
umnist is a lot like throwing
rocks at a hornets’ nest. Ex-
hilirating, maybe necessary,
but kind of foolhardy. I accept
that. But why am I met with
blank stares or horselaughs
when I call myself a liberal?
I’m a liberal. Barry Goldwater,
Bill Buckley and President
Reagan are liberals. (James
Watt is a nut case.) Most
Republicans and a few of us

be
ethical problems facing our
society.” When the HHS appeal-
ed the ruling, its request was
denied.

Under two secretaries, the
Health and Human Services
Department has bungled deci-
sions on two recent sensitive
ethical issues. Fortunately,
both the ‘Squeal Rule’ and the
‘Baby Doe Rule’ were enjoined
permanently from their ine-
quitable duties.

MDC 84 State
Chair meeting

Tonight

State Chairman appoint-
ments for the 1984 Mock Demo-
cratic convention have been
finalized and are posted on the
M.C. office in Room 200 of the

Left-statists. Or Social
Democrats. Or whatever. The
Liberals in fact (not in name)
are such in virtue of our firm
adherence to the principles of
John Locke. Liberals are for
free trade, free speech, and the
free market. Wherever a
government encroaches on the
liberty of people to dispose of
their goods as they damned well
please, we’re fighting it. If the
expansion of the state at the ex-
pense of these popular liberties
is justified as ‘Liberal’ you are
in the presence of a liar or a
fool.

Conservatives are the heirs of
Bismarck, Burke, and Calhoun.

 

They are Platonists, statists,
and the like. They, like the
‘Liberals’ of our day, support
the primacy of the state over its
citizens. They are collectivists,
communalists; they differ from
the Left only in terms of the end
to which they appeal to justify
their assaults on human digni-
ty. The means are in any case
the same, and equally abhor-
rent. Call one of us a Conser-
vative and you’re likely headed
for dispute. It’s not a nice word.

Now that that’s cleared up,
we can get back to the delightful
business of petty argument. For
next week, I’d like to know: Can
anyone out there think of a good
recipe for a Vodka Hollins?
First prize is a back issue of the
’Phi. Whoopee.

Ring-tum Phi

GPU OE vk ve cc ckciv ec cis inns
Assistant Sports Editor ................06
Managing Editor..............ceeseeeees
Head Photographer ............0:.eeeeeee
iy Aer ror

 

Gar eba ds 600 bee AGS ELE Bill Roberts
ia bX bes 6400 Vesela eV the Steve Perry
Chee KEKE 1 Rep aeRades HRA Allen Roberts

eEA PRE enced Cs cmeds cases Eric Campbell
pads 604101 Ree David W. Johnston
eultbei ci cesiitisal Mike Allen, Tom Baker

John Harrison, Andrew Hoppes,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, G. Bruce Potter,

B. Scott Tilley

Per er TORT T TT yer To rer Tom O’Brien
sachae Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
Sestasesrbatseds le Greg Aydt, Todd Barstow

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

University Center. The first
MANDATORY meeting for all
state chairmen will be
TONIGHT in Room 108/109
(Conference Room) of _ the
University Center at7 p.m.

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent. :

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

 
The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1983, Page 3

 

Fraternities

‘Sigma Nu officially reinstated this weekend

By WIN SISSON
Phi Staff Writer

This weekend new life will be
breathed into an old W&L tradi-
tion as the Lambda Chapter of
Sigma Nu Fraternity is official-
ly reinstated at the University.
The event will recognize the old
as well as the new when alumni,
friends, faculty, and neophytes
gather to celebrate SNU’s one
hundredth year of affiliation
with W&L. At the Centennial
celebration the new members
will be officially inducted and
the new colony will receive its
charter.

Last fall, amid dissention,
discord, and debt Sigma Nu
folded. Its resounding collapse
seemed to suggest the finality of
its demise, however, in a
relatively short period of time,
the fraternity has recolonized.
Ostensibly, this version of SNU
seems a stark contrast to its
predecessor.

During Winter term the “new
SNUs’’ led the fraternity
academic ranking with a 3.037
house average. (Chi Psi was se-
cond with 2.936.) House Presi-
dent, Chris John characterized
the new group as ‘‘diverse”’ and
said he hopes to build the image
of SNU as an_ alternative:

“more than just a place to par-

According to Dan Rodriguez,
Assistant Executive Director of
the fraternity, members of the
old order were offered admis-

sion into the new group, but
none expressed interest.
Rodriguez credits the rapid
revitalization primarily to the
enthusiasm and support of
alumni. The proximity of the
National Headquarters has also
had a positive influence on the
recolonization. Noting the
strength of campus, alumni,
and National support,
Rodriguez seemed confident of
a bright future for the new col-
ony.

However, it does not seem
that things will be simple for the
new SNU. The house holds
twenty six; the maximum
number initiating next weekend
is thirteen. The original
estimate of renovation was
100,000 dollars, but, W&L
Treasurer Stewart Eply reports
that a recent appraisal has pro-
jected a figure near 200,000
dollars.

Requiring immediate atten-
tion in the house itself is smoke
damage which extends from the
basement to the second floor.
Chris Johns characterized the
damage as basically ‘‘cos-
metic” in nature. This includes
a beam which was driven
through two walls on the third
floor.

The renovation cost has yet to
be estimated exactly. In Oc-
tober the Board of Trustees ap-

proved a financial plan propos-
ed by the national organization.
This plan would have involved

little University aid in the
recolonization effort. In light of
the recent estimate, which pro-
jects a much higher cost, a new
plan has been formulated.
Epley was emphatic in express-

ing the University’s desire to
help Sigma Nu get back on its
feet. Still, many things remain
uncertain for the new SNUs.
For a successful recolonization;
continued support from every

available facet will be
necessary. Epley’s comment
was most appropriate:
“Everything’s up in the ”
The new proposal will be
presented to President Wilson
Thursday for review.

Start the summer off right with swim lessons
and have a safe and enjoyable aquatic summer.

WHAT: American Red Cross Swimming Lessons
WHERE: W & L Pool

WHEN: Ist Session, May 2-6, 5-5:25 p.m.

5:30-5:55 p.m.

2nd Session, May 16-20, 5-5:25 p.m.

5:30-5:55 p.m.

Registration is Sat. April 30, 10 a.m. at W & L pool
*All ages above 5 years

 

 

Beginners
Advanced Swimming
Swim For Fitness

“Mommy and Me—Minimum age 2 years.
Competitive Stroke Technique

 

 

 

Lessons are $10 a session. Private lessons are available on request.
For further information call 463-9111, ext. 226.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lloyds of Lexington
Washington and Lee students have made Lloyds of Lexington a tradition and we, MARCH 1983
the Employees, appreciate it. For 22 years we have grown to be a popular student UPRIGHT VIDEOS FLIPPERS
meeting place to have some good, quick food 24 hours a day, and play the most MODEL/MANUFACTURER RATING DIST. MODEL/MANUFACTURER — RATING _ DIST.
popular video games in the country. Thank you for your support. We need and ap- vi 1 POLE POSITION (Atari) 8.96 41% 1 SBALL DELUXE (Bolly) 8.16 88%
preciate your continued patronage. v/ 2. JOUST (Williams) 8.72 78% 2 BABY PAC-MAN (Bally) 8.11 37%
Lloyd W. Smith Jr 7 3 MS. PACMAN (Midway) 867 94% 3 MR. &MRS.PAC-MAN (Bally) 6.49 49%
. : 7/4 POPEYE (Nintendo) 856 57% p/ 4 BLACK HOLE (Gottlieb) 6.18 58%
And Employees \/ 5 FRONT LINE (Taito) 8.33 © 32% //,8. FLIGHT 2000 (stern) 6.18 47%
7 8 Q°BERT (Gottlieb) 8.23 64% (/, ® HAUNTED HOUSE (Gottlieb) 6.09 45%
pag TO TOP THAT OF F— Vv” > BABY PAC-MAN (Bally) i. (/ 7 XENON (Bally) 6.07 61%
° ° + ¢ ener
We offer the latest in video game entertainment for all ages. ee SS sk
«7 9 TIME PILOT (Centuri) 781 29% 9 FIRE POWER (Williams) 583 68%
Of the top 25 video games in the country, we offer 20 for your en- 710. CENTIPEDE (Atari) 178 98% i acenneash laa a
joyment. 1711 MOON PATROL (Williams) 7.74 62%
12 JUNGLE HUNT (Taito) 7.68 67%
\/713 MILLIPEDE (Atari) 7.65 36% BEST NEW UPRIGHTS
v 714 PAC-MAN (Midway) 7.45 95% 1 STAR TREK (Sega) 8.86 6%
ys TURBO (Sega) 736 62% 2 BAGMAN (Stern) 8.00 6%
/\6 SUPER PAC-MAN (Midway) 7.27 63% 3. BUCK ROGERS (Sega) 7.11 8%
VAT TUTANKHAM (Stern) 691 = 41% 4 SINISTAR (Williams) 7,00 4%
v 18 DONKEY KONG, JR. (Nintendo) 6.81 86% a 5 SUPER ZAXXON (Sega) 7,00 16%
"19 DONKEY KONG (Nintendo) 6.74 86% 6 MR. F.LEA (Pac. Nov.) 100 (Oo
WV’ 20 DIG DUG (Atari) 6.67 83% 7 MR, DO (Universal) 6.88 15%
ws 21 MONACO/GP (Sega) 6.63 41% 8 LOST TOMB (Stern) 6.85 12%
TOP FLIPPERS AND VIDEOS NOW IN OPERATION. POSITIONS ARE BASED ON AN EARNINGS.OPINION 7 oe oe 9 TAC/ SCAN (Sega) 684 017%
POLL OF STREET AND GAME CENTER OPERATORS IN THE U.S. CONDUCTED BY REPLAY MAGAZINE. U7 23 ROBOTRON (Wiliams) 661 75% 10 NIBBLER (Rock-Ola) 683 11%
aaa cineca (724 BURGERTIME(Midway/DataEast) 6.57 46%
725 FROGGER (Sega) 643 90%
Lunch 8 Dinner. Coupon ! Breakfast Cou on j L h — Sar sa ae se amen ee oome: 1 — Br ——_ ikfa oe Cor oe oe ee nee con 4
P 1 Lunch & Dinner Coupon | BreaktastCoupon |
‘ |
si yi “fille Served 5 a.m. -11a.m. Served after 11 a.m. ;  Served5a.m.-11a.m.
e ° |
y one c " illet ; Buy one sausage or country | Buy one chicken fillet ; Buy one sausage or country :
I ; \ ° °
sandwich for a ham biscuit, get one sandwich for ! ham biscuit, get one
QQ  ettuce, tomato, | FREE ¢ —_Servedwith FREE ;
& mayonnaise 1 i lettuce, tomato, i
Expires 06-01-83 | 1 ee
xpires 06- ‘ Expires 06-01-83 | Expires 06-01-83 | Expires 06-01-83 !
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1983

 

Pulitzer poet gives five lectures

Pulitzer Prize-winning poet
Richard Howard will present
The Glasgow Lectures for 1983
at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity May 2 through May 6.

The series is entitled ‘‘Ante-
Modernism or The Politics of
Ecstasy.”

Howard will give five lectures
in the series and will conclude
by giving a reading from his
own poetry. The lectures are all
open to the public at no charge
and will be given in Room 327 of
the Commerce School Building.
The schedule of lectures is:

‘Toward the Identification of
a Period: Not Symbolism, not
Fin-de-Siecle, Not Decadence —
But Why Ante-Modernism?” on
Monday, May 2, at8 p.m.

“From Faun to Fate: How
Greek Is It?” on Tuesday, May

3, at4p.m.

“American Scenes: Can the
Complex Fate be Simplified?”
on Wednesday, May 4, at4 p.m.

“Exoticism, Sexuality, and
the Camera: Are Foreign Parts
the Hard Parts?” on Thursday,
May 5, at4p.m.

“Aftermath of Ante- Moder-
nism: Is There an End in
Sight?” on Friday, May 6, at 4
p.m.

A reading from Mr. Howard’s
works on Friday, May 6, at 8
p.m.

Howard is the author of eight
volumes of poetry since ‘“‘Quan-
titites’’ (1963), including ‘‘Un-
titled Subjects’”’ which won the
Pulitzer Prize in 1970. Howard’s
forthcoming volume is entitled
“Lining Up.”’

Born in Cleveland in 1929,

8 AE OE @ A O_o Ne 6 - @ ES © <RE @ RMR & SERRE

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

OEE 6 08 <2 a GT

GREEK WARS
DOMINO’S PIZZA

Howard was educated at Col-
umbia University and the Sor-
bonne. He was president of
P.E.N.-American Center in
1978-1980, a Guggenheim
Fellow, and a Fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and
Letters. He has received the
Academy’s Award of Merit
Medal.

The French Government has
created Howard a Chevalier de
l’Ordre National du Merite for
his work as a translator of
French literature. He has
translated more than 150 works,
including volumes by DeGaulle,
Robbe-Grillet, Burtor, Breton,
and Cocteau.

He is the author of two works
of criticism, ‘‘Alone with
America” (1969; enlarged edi-
tion, 1980) and ‘‘Preferences.”’

He is a visiting professor at
Columbia University and the
University of Texas, director of
the Braziller Poetry Series, and
poetry editor of ‘‘Shenandoah,”’

Washington and Lee’s literary

magazine.

The Glasgow Lectures are
presented at Washington and
Lee each year by the Glasgow
Endowment Program, which
was created at the university by
the generous bequest of Arthur
Graham Glasgow.

Sele

DOMINO’S

 

OFFERS $300 CASH [zz

All fraternities are eligible to win. Winner need only
to purchase the most pizza between Monday May 1 and

Saturday May 14th.

Instant party: Orders of 30 or more large pizzas at one
time will receive a complimentry keg of beer with tap.
$50 deposit required along with 48 hours notice. Cups

and napkins provided.

PRPRPAPPPPDPPPDSPPPP DANA AARAAPPPPPPAIOPPDPPPLIPPADP PP PDD PEP POP ALIAS

(Pizzas ordered do not have to be delivered to the
fraternity to be credited to your total. Participants need
only mention their fraternity to which the order is to be

credited.)

BOTH LARGE AND SMALL

PIZZAS COUNT

23 S. JEFFERSON

HOURS: 11 a.
11 a.m.-2 a.m. Fri. & Sat.

m.-1 a.m. Sun.-Thurs.

 

 

W&L Calendar

Thursday, April 28
7:30 p.m. — SLIDE/Lecture: ‘‘York — The Archaeology of a Viking
City.” Patrick Ottaway. Sponsored by the department of Sociology
and Anthropology. Northen Auditorium. Public invited. Free
7:30 p.m. — FILM: Shakespeare Film Serires:' Hamlet (Tony
Richardson, 1970). Reid Hall Room 203. Free.

Friday, April 29
AWAY Athletic Event: Tennis: ODAC Championships. (Lynch-
burg, VA.)
7 p.m. — Henry Street Playhouse Benefit: 1. Champagne reception.
2. Film: Goldiggers of 1933. 3. Post Party. $15 per person. For infor-
mation call 463-9395.
8 p.m. — Pops Concert: W&L Glee Club and the Women’s Chorus
from the University of Virginia. Lee Chapel. Public invited. Free.

Saturday, April 30
10a.m.— J.V. Lacrosse: Generals vs. the Charlottesville Club.
1 p.m, — LACROSSE: Generals vs. Syracuse. Wilson Field.
Away Athletic Events: Baseball; ODAC Tournament. (Salem,
Va.); Tennis: ODAC Championships continue.
7p.m. — Henry Street Playhouse Benefit; $15 per person.

 

 

UVA joins Glee club

The Washington and Lee popular songs, ranging from

University Glee Club will be
joined by the University of
Virginia Women’s Chorus for a
special ‘“‘pops”’ concert on Fri-
day, April 29, at 8 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

The concert is open to the

- andoah,”’

show tunes to folk songs to
spirituals.

The W&L Glee Club, directed
by Gordon Spice, will be perfor-
ming ‘‘Vive L’Amour;”’ “‘Shen-
“The Rhythm of
Life:’’ from the musical “‘Sweet

 

public at no charge. Charity,’’ “‘“Somebody’s Calling
Both the W&L Glee Club and My Name,” “Die Launige
the U.Va. Women’s Chorus will Forelle,”’ and ‘‘My Lord What A
be performing a variety of mein 3
) BUSCH
_ 6-Pack 12-Pack (

$2.29 $4.95

WE fF HAVE COORS IN STOCK

ae |
)
=}
)

 

 

 

 

 

 

i i ik ae al

 
   

: Conmatiations
Mike Killea on your McCrums Drug Store
new appointment: —————
Today the Pit, Coppe
tomorrow the worid. pene Se Sear

Gifts for Graduation

 

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

21 W. Washington St.

 

For help with summer

travel abroad contact

Travel Unlimited. We
sell Eurail and Britrail
The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1983, Page 5

 

Shevchenko

(continued from page 1)
liamentary consideration seen
in Congressional budget hear-
ings.

“The Soviet Union is ruled by
a small group of peoples — the
top members of the Politburo.”
Shevchenko identified these
men — Yuri Andropov, Andrei
Gromyko, Defense Minister
Dmitri Ustinov, Premier
Tikhonov and _ Constantin
Chernenko. The American
media, Shevchenko said, are
mistaken in reporting that An-
dropov has become the
“established, unchallenged”’
head of the USSR. He described
a continuing struggle “among

key mambers of the Politburo.”’

Despite this turmoil, Shev-
chenko stressed that there re-
mains a power elite ‘‘who did
not abandon the idea of even-
tually establishing a Soviet-
style socialism in the whole
world.” The former principal
advisor on Security Council Af-
fairs to the U.N. Secretary
General said the extension of
Soviet influence in the Third
World is a major challenge to
the U.S.

 

Shevchenko said the USSR’s

economy cannot support
massive monetary aid to
underdeveloped nations, so
“the Soviets can only give
arms.”

The CIA and the British
Foreign Office have collected
figures which support Shev-
chenko’s statement. From 1975
to 1979, the Soviets provided on-
ly $7.2 billion in economic aid to
the Third World, but gave $28.4
billion in military aid during the
same 4-year period. Shev-
chenko cited similar ratios;

predicting that “the U.S. can —

win a competition with the
Soviet Union by having some
programs for the
underdeveloped parts of the
world.”

Shevchenko attributes this
advantage in part to the
discrepancy in the defense ex-
penditures of the two super-
powers. While the U.S. devotes
about six percent of its G.N.P.

‘to defense, Shevchenko said the

Soviets ‘‘spend 25 percent, at
least.”’
When asked to assess these

figures in light of the current
sharp tone of Soviet-American
dialogue, Shevchenko cautioned
that ‘‘there is no return to the
Cold War.’’ He acknowledged
the strain of planned deploy-
ment of American missiles in
Western Europe, but said the
U.S. and the USSR still share an
overwhelming interest in
prevention of an accidental
holocaust and pursuit of nuclear
non-proliferation.

The nuclear freeze move-
ment, Shevchenko opined, is ‘‘a
reflection of the concern of the
people for the future, but it
should be a more clearly defin-
ed thing. What would you like to
freeze? Tactical weapons?

They’re not verifiable. Some
things are big enough that you
can see them from the sky and
verify them. But tactical
weapons are not...the Soviet
Union has to open all the ter-
ritories (to verification) with a
freeze.”

“In the U.S. you cannot hide
anything. Every warhead is
counted and everything is
published everywhere. In the

Soviet Union
counted.”’
Nothing is counted there, ex-
cept pounds of butter and loaves
of bread. Shevchenko said food
rationing is in force throughout
Russia, except in the largest

metropolitan areas. The
American exchange student, he
said, will certainly not be allow-

ed to see food lines. ‘They will
show you the best things, what
the Russian people did, which is

nothing is

a great people. which con-
tributed a great deal to human;
civilization. They will show all
tnat to you, but you will not see

what the Soviet regime did to
the Soviet people.”

The Soviet Regime, Shev-
chenko said, ‘‘achieved a
number of things, but they

denied one thing which is essen-
tial for any human being. The
essential is your right to think,

to do what you want to do, to
find how you would like to live.”’

“The Soviet Party would, like
a doctor, prescribe to you how
you live all the time, what you
have to do, what you have to
think.”’

OCGA

Wednesday Night Buffet

Each Wednesday night 5:30
until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,

Garlic Bread you can eat for

Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and _

TY
EE

600 E. NelsonSt. Lexington

 

Spring Weekend ‘83

Ste

PHONE 463-7000

 

 

Time: 2-6 p.m.
Place: Wilson Stadium
Cost: $2 at gate

Who: W & L VM

Food and Beverages available
No beverages may be brought into stadium

Ye

 

WE PRODUCERS

with special guests

SUN TIE
POWERPLAY

“Ree,

‘eo

 
OO OO OE BOB POR BOB BO PO BO LO LO LP BE I I

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1983

Dickens focuses attention on

David B. Dickens, associate
professor of German at
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty, wants Americans to meet
Kurt Kusenberg.

Kusenberg is a contemporary

German writer who specializes

in the very, very short story.
Though popular throughout the
world, Kusenberg’s works have

heretofore been the subject of

very little critical attention in
the United States.

Dickens is trying to change
that situation. In March
Dickens delivered a paper on
Kusenberg to the Fourth Inter-
national Conference on the Fan-

tastic in the Arts sponsored by
Florida Atlantic University in
Boca Raton, Fla. The paper was
entitled ‘“‘Karl Kusenberg and

 

CINEMA |

Buena Vista

261-2900

 

  

and love will
never be the same.

oe

nna),
miles

 

Shows Sun.-Thurs. 7:15 only

Fri. & Sat. 7:15 & 9:00

Matinee Sat. only, 2:00 All seats $1.50
Mon. night all seats $1.50

 

re ee en ee i Cl Dn

uecdays

 

 

  

IN

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

 

—=

 

 

"It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

in

the Quest for Higher Order.”’
Excerpts from another of
Dickens’ works on Kusenberg, a

paper entitled ‘‘Kurt
Kusenberg: A German Existen-
tialist with a Sense of Humor,”
have recently been published in
a volume of collected papers.
That new volume, ‘‘The
Language of Humor, The
Humor of Language,’’ was
published in conjunction with a
conference on humor held a
year ago in Arizona where the
Dickens paper was first
presented. .

In addition to lecturing and
writing about Kusenberg,
Dickens is currently working on
a textbook edition of 21 of the

German writer’s stories and is
also translating Kusenberg into

English. Dickens’ goal is to see
Kusenberg in print in English

Nancy A. Hulett of Short
Hills, N.J., and Seth C. Prager
of Rockville, Md., were the two
winners in the annual Burks
Moot Court Competition among
first-year students in
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty’s School of Law.

The entire first-year class of
the W&L law school par-
ticipates in the Burks Moot
Court Competition, which is

TTT
B Mextenen ta 463-3424)

Ends Thurs. 7-9

“High Road to China’’P.G.

Starts Fri. Eve.’s 7:15-9
Sat., Sun. Mat. 2, and Mon. Night
All Seats $1.50

IPRING

 

 

 

 

 

Kusenberg

by the writer’s 80th birthday in
June 1984,

Dickens and his wife visited
Dr. and Mrs. Kusenberg in Ger-
many last year.

Two win moot competition

divided into separate competi-
tions for brief writing and for
oral arguments.

Hulett won the oral argument
portion of the competition
which was held last week when
the four finalists argued cases
before a bench of distinguished
judges.

Hulett is a 1982 graduate of
Barnard College where she ma-
jored in European history.

Prager’s brief won top honors
in that category. He graduated
from Western Maryland Col-
lege in 1981 and was a history
major.

The other finalists in the oral
argument portion of ape Burks
Moot Court Competition were:
second, Kathryn B. Meadows of
Hurricane, W.Va., a graduate
of Marshall University; third,
D. Bruce Poole of Hagerstown,
Md., a 1981 graduate of
Washington and Lee; and
fourth, J. Ross Newell of
Virginia Beach, a 1981 graduate
of Washington and Lee.

The runnerup in the brief
writing competition was Mary
Elizabeth Zanolli of McLean,
Va., a graduate of the Universi-
ty of California at Berkeley.

Be

Ailes CINEMA

LEXINGTON,

“Outsiders’’(R

farts Fri. Eve.’s7:15-9
Sat. & Sun. Mat. 2, and
Mon. night All seats $1.50

NOTHING CAN |

PREPARE YOU |
FORWHAT |
HAPPENS

WHEN SHE
FIGHTS BACK.

 

WHERE NOTHING Is OFF LIMI
EDWARD vw IK ROSMAN Fim
Starring K. ATHAYN Monel. TEEN, DAVIDSON
RELEASED BY ARTISTS RELEASING CORP

THRU FILM VENTURES INTERNATIONAL

 
Sports

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1983, Page 7

 

Lax to meet Syracuse machine

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
lacrosse team will take on the
University of Syracuse Satur-
day on Wilson Field. Game time
has been moved back an hour to
1 p.m. to accommodate other
Spring Weekend activities.

Syracuse, 17-1, was un-
defeated at the top of the Divi-
sion I poll before it lost Satur-
day to Army. The defeat drop-
ped the Orangemen to fourth
behind Johns Hopkins, Virginia,
and Cornell.

The Orangemen, who beat the
Generals last year 15-14 while
struggling to a record of 6-4,
have returned to national pro-
minence with a strong group of
freshmen and veterans such as
attackmen Bob Seebold and
Randy Lundblad and midfielder
Art Lux.

The Generals 21-4 loss at
North Carolina Saturday gives
them a record of 3-5. The fifth-
ranked Tar Heels scored the

game’s first four goals, then ran
off 11 more in a row after Lee
Heimert got W&L’s only goal of
the first half.

North Carolina outshot W&L
68-25 in handing the Generals
their worst setback since 1969.
The Tar Heels got goals from 1
different players. é

The attack was led by Paul
Danko’s three goals. Scoring
twice were David Wingate, Mac
Ford, War Steidle, Keith Brad-
dish and defenseman Randy
Cox.

The most active player on the
field may have been Carolina’s
All America goalie, Tom Sears.
Several times in the first half he
left his crease to tell the
referees how to make calls. He
also went out to greet a W&L
player who slipped on the wet
field. He capped his antics by
rushing the length of field to pile
on top of a fight.

Heimert, with two goals, and
Joe Seifert and Todd Breithaupt
were W&L’s scorers.

ta
aati

Sophomore Rich Schoenberg comes up with the ball on a faceoff in Washington & Lee’s 21-4 loss to North

‘ae

  

Carolina last Saturday in Chapel Hill. The loss dropped the Generals to 3-5 on the season. W&L will meet
fourth ranked Syracuse this Saturday at 1:00 p.m. on Wilson Field.

 

Baseball

W&L scrambling for playoff berth

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s
baseball team kept its playoff
hopes alive by winning four of
its final six league games to im-
prove its Old Dominion Athletic
Conference record to 7-7-1 and
its overall mark to 8-11-1.

W&L defeated Bridgewater
College 14-13 and swept a
doubleheader with Eastern
Mennonite College 9-0 and 3-2.
W&L lost the first garhe of a
doubleheader Tuesday at
Emory and Henry 7-1, but won
the second game 9-5. Hampden-
Sydney defeated W&L 7-4.

Defending ODAC champion
Lynchburg College has clinched
a berth in the ODAC playoffs
Saturday, but W&L and four
other teams are still scrambl-
ing for the three remaining
playoff spots. Catholic Univer-
sity, Randolph-Macon, Hamp-
den-Sydney, Eastern Mennonite
and W&L are all still in the run-
ning for the playoff.

Last Thursday at Smith Field
the Generals outlasted Bridge-
water College in a 14-13
slugfest.

W&L scored five runs in the
seventh inning to open up a 14-5
lead, but the Eagles rallied.
Senior Jody Harris, normally
W&L’s shortstop, stopped the
Eagles’ rally by getting the last
two outs in the ninth to pick up a
pitching save.

Sophomore Billy White earn-
ed the win for the Generals to
raise his record to 4-1. White
was forced to leave the game in
the seventh inning when he was
hit in the head by a line drive.

Saturday at Smith Field
Hampden-Sydney scored six
runs in the sixth inning to rally
for a 7-4 victory over W&L.

W&L scored all four of its
runs in the fourth inning. Senior
Jim Daly, who had three of
W&L’s four hits in the game,
ripped a two-run double in the
inning.

Daly smashed a three-run
homer for the Generals and
junior Kevin Golden added a
two-run homer. Daly and senior
Chris Cavalline both collected
three hits for the Generals.

In the first game of Monday’s
doubleheader at Eastern Men-
nonite the pitching of Billy
White and two home runs

    

PP A et oi AS AA

as well, 800-526-0883.

ASALS AAS AAA ASA ome

Earn $500 or more each school year. Flexib
hours. Monthly payment for placing posters on
campus. Bonus based on results. Prizes awarded

SSSISASA ASS S SAIS AAS AA oS A

e

ae eee ewe ee ISD ID PADD DAS

  
 
  

powered W&L toa 9-0 victory.

White pitched a complete
game while improving his
record to 5-1 on the season.
White yielded five hits, walked
none and struck out three bat-
ters.

A sparkling relief perfor-
mance by freshman Kirk Breen
and a two-run homer by Dave
Warrenfeltz earned the Gene-
rals a 3-2 win in the second

Track & Field

game of the doubleheader.

White started the second
game for W&L also, but was
removed after two of the first
three batters he faced collected
hits. While Eastern Mennonite
did score two runs in the first in-
ning, Breen, who came in for
White, did not allow a hit the
rest of the game.

Warrenfeltz’s game-winning
homer in the fifth inning was

one of only four hits for the
Generals.

The ODAC playoffs will be
held Saturday at Lynchburg Ci-
ty Stadium. At noon, Lynchburg
College, the first seed with an
11-0 record, will play the fourth-
seeded team. At 3 p.m. the se-
cond and third seeds will play.
The winners of those two games
will play in the championship
game at8 p.m.

ODAC Championships pose
Generals’ final hurdle

By CHIS FULTON
Phi Staff Writer

Competing against 25 other
Division II and III colleges in
the Mount Saint Mary’s relays
at Emmitsburg, Penn., this
past Saturday, the Generals
placed in three track events.

Gene Gerrard, Chris Ives,
Scott Henderson and Mark
Pembroke placed fifth in the
sprint medly (200m-200m-400m-
800m). Pembroke set a school
record for the 800m in his leg of
the relay; unfortunately legs of
the relays don’t count as official
records. Paul Chapman, John
Lewis, Frank Pittman, and
Angus McBryde placed sixth in
the distance relay ('mile-
Ymile-%mile-1 mile); Eric
Nelson turned in a personal best

of 130 ft. to place eighth in the
discus.

Washington and Lee will join
seven other colleges Friday and
Saturday, April 29-30, at Lynch-
burg for the seventh annual
ODAC Track and Field Cham-
pionships. In the last three
years W&L has placed third —
it’s highest finish — year miss-
ing second by a single point.

Lynchburg is the defending
champion and the favorite
again this year although accor-
ding to head coach Norris
Aldridge Lynchburg is not as
strong this year — the top con-
tenders will be Roanoke Col-
lege, Lynchburg and Wash-
ington and Lee.

Based on the top perfor-
mances going into the meet, the

favorites in all events except
Pole Vault are Lynchburg or
Washington and Lee, however
Roanoke was not figured in,
“and they’ve got some win-
ners,”’ said Aldrige; ‘‘but we’ve
got some winners and some
depth.

“In a large meet like the
ODAC winning isn’t everything.
Points are given for the top six
finishers. According to Aldrige
if both W&L’s favorites and
place men do well the Generals
could take the meet. ‘‘A lot of it
has to do with which teams
balance each other out,” he
said. There are many places
Aldrige expects the Generals to
do well and he also hopes the
relay teams, which have juggl-
ed around will perform well.
 

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1983

 

 

WEL fakes ODAC title

By LEE NICHOLS
Phi Sports Editor

Overcoming the formidable
handicap of having the team’s
No. 1 player studying abroad
this term, the Generals
regrouped their forces to turn
back favored Lynchburg Col-
lege and capture the seventh
annual 0.D.A.C. Championship
hled this past Monday and Tues-
day at the Lexington Country
Club. Three W&L golfers earn-
ed All-Conference honors, while
Head Coach E.G. “Buck”
Leslie was named ODAC Coach-
of-the-Year.

Seven teams teed it up at 8:30
Monday morning, only to be
greeted by brisk winds and
unseasonably cool tempera-
tures. Coach Leslie expected
the tournament to be a four-
team race between Lynchburg,
Roanoke, Randolph-Macon and
W&L. At last year’s tournament
Lynchburg took the title, edging
out Roanoke by one shot and
W&L by two.

However, after the first round
was completed, it was obvious
that the race had been narrow-
ed down to Lynchburg and
W&L. The General’s total of 309
placed them four strokes ahead
of Lynchburg; the next lowest
score was Randolph-Macon
with 325. Pacing the Generals’
first round were junior co-
captain Whit Kelly and senior
Tim Webb, both of whom card-
ed 75’s. Freshman Turner
Friedman posted a 79 and
senior Frank English an 80 to
round out W&L’s scoring. The
low score of the day was turned
in by Tom Pellatt of Lynchburg,
who hada 74. :

The weather improved slight-
ly for Tuesday’s round with the
temperature somewhat warm-
er than the previous day. Leslie
knew that it would take a total
of 615 or 616 to ward off a strong
Lynchburg guard. |

Therefore, he was understan-
dably concerned when Kelly,
the first golfer to finish, turned
in an 86. But as has been
characteristic of the squad all
season, a teammante just a few
holes behind him was picking
up the slack. Junior Steve
Jones, who had an 81 on Mon-
day, countered with a 77 in the
final round. Webb duplicated

 

Senior Tim Webb blasts his way out of a trap in action Monday at
Lexington Country Club. Webb was medalist in the tournament.
Leading the Generals to victory in the ODAC Championship. (Phi
photo by Ken Ries)

 

 

his first day score of 75, while
English also carded a 75 and
Friedman an 80.

After the last putt was drop-
ped and the last scorecard
tallied and signed, W&L had
avenged last year’s third pace
finish by posting. a two stroke
victory over Lynchburg,
616-618. Roanoke College finish-
ed a distant third at 647,
Randolph-Macon fourth at 650,
Bridgewater fifth at 666,
Hampden-Sydney sixth at 680,
and Catholic seventh at 715.

Three W&L starters earned
All-Conference honors, which
are awarded to the top seven
finishers and ties. Webb was
medalist in the tournament at
150; English finished fourth at
155, and Jones finished in a
three-way tie for sixth at 158.
Other W&L totals were Freid-
man at 159, Kelly at 161, and
freshman Jeff Kimball at 178.

W&L’s victory earned Leslie
Coach-of-the-Year honors in his
ninth year at the General’s
helm. During the past three
seasons he has coached the
team to a 25-0 match play
record.

Commenting on the win,
Leslie cited a tremendous team
effort to be the key factor. ‘‘The
most amazing aspect of the win
was that our No. 1 man, Bruce
Blythe, was lost for the rest of
the season to studies abroad. It

a

 

OPEN 24 HOURS
113 North Main St.

 

We’ve Now Got COORS
Cans, Bottles &

Coors Light

SPECIALS

Busch $2.29
32 oz. Fountain drinks 39¢

“‘Stop-In, the place to go
for all your warm weather supplies.”

Prices good through
5/5/83.

/vouvvucovevvcoceevnocennsceneevsvocsevscoeeenssuenesuensocennoevevvcuceevvvsuoeeveesvnoeneesvoceessueensquouseessnonud ;

was a real tribute to all our
players that they could fill the
void created by Bruce’s
absence. Leslie added, ‘“‘When
Whit had a bad round Tuesday,
Steve came in with a five round
that saved us; this was typical
of the whole season.”’

By virture of the teams
undefeated record and their im-
proved stroke average, the
Generals stand a chance of
receiving a bid to the NCAA
Division III playoff. ‘The
results go to the selection com-
mittee tomorrow; the pairings
will be announced next week.”
In the past few years W&L has
been denied a berth in the tour-
nament, but hopefully the
team’s conference title and
lowered stroke average will
convince the committee that the
Generals have earned a spot.

Looking to next year’s squad,
Leslie anticipates another fine
season as only two starters,
English and Webb, will be lost
to graduation. ‘“We’ll miss Tim
and Frank, but we’ll have a
good nucleus to build on,
especially with Bruce return-
ing.”

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

....Wouldn’t we all like to be
John Elway, confident that we
would be paid any salary we
asked for? If we don’t get what
we want (working conditions,
location, etec.), we can always
chose one of the many other
equally lucrative alternatives.
We also are among the best in
two big money sports, so good
that we have been asked to
wear Yankee pinstripes as well
as having every professional
football team in existence fight
for our signature on a contract.
We are the subject of feature
stories in magazines along with
countless other interviews.
Sounds like we’ve got it made,
right? Do we really? Let’s look
at the other side of Mr. Elway’s
future. I remember a similar
situation for one Danny Ainge,
who gets into fights on basket-
ball floors now. No, Danny is do-
ing fine...now. But remember
the law suits he had to go
through just to be allowed to
quit his contract with his Toron-
to baseball team and become a
member of the Boston Celtics,
only then to ride the bench for
quite a while. So, John, you bet-
ter not make the wrong deci-
sion. But that’s only the begin-
ning. Even if he makes the right
choice, though, there’s still the
little matter of living up to the
superstardom that’s been
forecast for him. They’re talk-
ing Joe Willie; John, are you
listening? Things don’t sound so
rosy, now, do they? Let’s face
it, the pressure is all on John
Elway. Everybody may want
you now, sir, but if you can’t

 

      

dance when they ask you to, life
is going to be very tough. The
sharks are out there waiting for
you. Good luck, Mr. Elway.
You’re going to need it...

.... Turning to the Colonnade,
all I can say is that it’s a shame
they don’t call lacrosse games
due to rain, because last Satur-

Time Out.....

day’s contest with UNC would
have been a good one to call. By
the way, it’s too bad the
Generals didn’t play up to
potential last week because if
there ever was a group that
needed their heads handed to
them, it was North Carolina,
who played as clean as the day
was dry...

..Our friend from Jersey is
on hiatus, mentally, so I’ll take
over with some thoughts on the
NBA conference semi-final
situation. The Iceman and the
Spurs should have little to
worry about with Denver. In the
Portland-L.A. series the thing
to watch for are any Trailblazer
casualties. Magic, Kareem, and
Jamaal could win the series all
by themselves. Philadelphia
and Moses look tough but the
Knicks cannot be overlooked.
Sixers in five or six. The only in-
teresting playoff series will be
Milwaukee-Boston. The Celts
looked ragged against the
Hawks but did close them out
resoundingly. The crystal ball
says the Boston bunch in seven
games...

...Sportsbits: The WCT
Finals are taking place in
Dallas this week, and as long as
the arena doesn’t cave in, Ivan
Lend! will successfully defend
his crown. The Czech has No. 1
in the world for the taking, but
we've heard that before,
haven’t we...Remember this
name for L.A. in ’84: Carl
Lewis. Lewis had his record-
breaking performance in the
100 meters taken away on a
technicality. Carl must eat
Flintstone chewables...Johnny
Bench is not listed on the of-
ficial All-Star ballot as a third
base candidate. What wonder-
ful administration baseball has.
Good thing, Bowie is gone come
August...

..This closing thought for all
you trustees and interested
others: I don’t know about you,
but ‘‘Generalettes” just doesn’t
make it with me...

VUGVVQVVVGVIGVUVGGVUVUVVVCVUUVUECOUeUUCCC CUO UO Og o ogee ae ae aa ea OE Ok Ek Ok OK OO OO OOO OO OO OO

 

WELCOME TO SPRING

   
 

The Cockpit

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

 

 

Unlimited SALAD BAR
All You Can Eat

Includes Homemade
French Bread

$1.75 tax

 

 

 

HOODOO OOOOEOOO OOO ROO OG BARA BABARA RAR ARAARAARAAAAR AAR AAARAARAARAHRAAHAAAKHA Ana
MMMM eee eee oe ee 889808060806 000000000000000008000000000000000006

  

 

 
 

 

THE UNBVERIENY LaBRARY
WASHINGTON @ LZ UNIVERSITY
LEXGNcTrong VA: 24490

§-tTum Phi MAY 9 1982

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA

  

    
 

 

 

Rin

 

ee
©, Y
Picacgacal

 

 

 

 

PERMIT NO. 38
VOLUME 82 NUMBER 27 Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia, May 6, 1983
: ’ 7 el cee
ae e Communist
is critical of ak

speaks
at W&L

WEL social
life

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

By WIN SISSON
Phi Staff Writer

Tuesday night in Northen
Auditorium a former advisor to
Communist China called a re-
cent decision by the US.
government a ‘‘slap in the face”
to the government in Peking.
Sidney Rittenburg forsees
possible difficulties in U-.S.-
Chinese relations as a result of
negligence of U.S, decision
makers. He criticized the
government for failing to heed
the recommendations of its ad-
visors and ignoring the wishes
of the Chinese government.
Specifically Rittenburg refer-
red to the decision to grant
Chinese tennis star Hu Na
political asylum. ‘He said that
though America and China are
alike in many ways, in many
other ways they are very dif-
ferent, and in order to enhance
relations the two must strive to
appreciate their dissimilitudes.

Rittenburg described China
as a “land of glaring paradox”
and her two biggest internal
problems, starvation and birth
control in this context. Though
China has a bigger land mass
than the United States, only 7.5
percent of her land is arable.
China’s population is one of the
world’s largest (one _ billion
plus) and yet its population
growth is not yet under control.
Thus there are an increasing
number of mouths to feed with”
little land to provide the food.
Despite their ‘‘primary needs’,
Rittenburg explained, ‘The
Chinese are not a people who
live by the ledger’. He
elaborated: ‘“‘You can take a

Dr. John D. Wilson, Universi-
ty president, told a group of
students last week that he has
concerns about a number of
aspects of the social life at
W&L.

Speaking to about fifty
students in a meeting arranged
by -the College Republicans,
Wilson emphasized that he was
giving only his ‘‘first impres-
sions’”’ which were ‘‘subject to
revision and change’”’ but which
nevertheless ‘‘worried”’ him.

“It’s a curious artificial
social environment that the
fraternity social system
creates,”’ Wilson said. ‘‘There’s
a certain curious false streak
that’s at work there that I’d
don’t fully understand, but I
can’t think it’s healthy.’’

Wilson said he was drawn to
wonder about the social setup
here because. the students
wonder about it themselves.
“You worry that the only kind
of social relationship that you
seem to be able to have with
young women is when you are
gathered together rather en
masse over a beer — not one,
but several — in a kind but in-
tensive environment than a
casual being,’’ Wilson said.

He continued, “I sense that
there’s a certain artificiality to
the social life that is defined by
the Wednesday night-Friday
night-Saturday night staccato
life here....1 think some of you
even wonder whether you aren’t
misled in your social relation-

 

The Washington and Lee lacrosse team got back on the right track with a win over rival Roanoke Col-
lege, 10-9 in overtime. Here the Generals’ Stu Kiehne dodges a Maroon defender in Wednesday’s contest.
W&L faces Hampden-Sydney Saturday in their final home game. (Phi photo by Chainsaw)

 

‘“‘When I meet the students at
Washington and Lee,” he said,
“I meet gentlemen, for the most
part....When I talk to students

badly treated in recent years
and it’s a terrible burden to
place on this generation of

because they’re still dragging
the reputation of the early
seventies along with them and it

ships.”

Wilson said _ that

said. -

“That’s the last thing you
would have thought of at a
single sex institution, that you’d
be inundated with young women
who purportedly want to meet
you. What else are they doing
here if they don’t want to do

that?”’

After talking to a number of
students at the women’s col-
leges, Wilson sees a contradic-
tion between their impression of

W&L and the image that he sees
it as projecting.

W&L
students suffer a sort of embar-
rassment of riches when it
comes to women. ‘‘You’re spoil-
ed, in a curious sort of way,” he

from Hollins and other schools,
they say it can be really very
rude, very gross, very crude....

“Part of it can be explained
by mob psychology, but I have a
hard time putting that together
with the men that I know there
on Wednesday night-Friday
night-Saturday night.”

Wilson said that the frater-
nities have a real problem with
image. “Our fraternities carry
a very substantial part of the
reputation of this institution,
and for the most part, although
I think the reputation the frater-
nities carry is out of date, it’s
negative...

“They don’t have a very good
reputation, mainly, I think,

will take a while to change that.
believe that the fraternities are
trying to improve and become
better.”

“T think the fraternities can
be a great force for good here,
or they can be a source of grave
impediment to us. We need
responsible social organiza-
tions,’’ he added.

Part of the fraternities’ pro-
blem is a physical one, accor-
ding to Wilson. ‘The frater-
nities are for the most part lodg-
ed in aging residences — aging
is the most charitable thing one
can say about some of them.”
He said many of them have
“deep structural problems.”’

“This generation of students
has inherited houses that were

responsible people — the terri-
ble cost of maintenance.”

Again, Wilson said, image is a
critical factor. “‘Having Sigma
Nu boarded up is a horrible
thing. I said to the national! peo-
ple at Sigma Nu, “We’re either
going to tear it down, or we’re
going to get it going again, and
have it become a good, respon-
sible fraternity.’ Right now it’s
just a horrible liability. It looks
like the lower Bronx down
there.”

Although overall he express-
ed hope for the Greek frater-
nities don’t deserve to survive.”

It’s not just the fraternities
that are a concern to Wilson. “‘I
worry a little about the non-
affiliated students as well,’ he

(continued on page 4)

wagonload of gold (to them),
but insult or humiliate the peo-
ple and they will tell you to take
your gold and get out without
giving you a second thought.”
“They pay a great deal of atten-
tion,’ he concluded, ‘‘to
respect.”’ Rittenburg considers
the Hu Na incident of primary
importance because it reflects
misperceptions each country
shares about the other. He said
it would be tragic for American
officials to incorrectly believe
they could bully China political-
ly simply because China needs
America’s unrequited aid.
Thus, an issue such as Hu Na’s
became part of what Rittenburg
feels is nothing more than “‘par-

(continued on page 8)
e2.*

“ne
| Nes ; - bios ee ge
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983 pin 10n
ESIC NEE PALE LS HOLLIES BODES EL EIT DEI

 

haw PRAY Scare

Coed cénsidered 5—~

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

The inevitable surfaced. The
question was asked. What does
John D. Wilson, the new presi-
dent of Washington and Lee
University, think about W&L
going co-educational?

“T don’t intend to go to the
May Board (of Trustees)
meeting with a coed proposal.”

What does citizen John D.
Wilson think about the prospect
of W&L with women as four-
year students?

That answer is not as clear.
Wilson readily admits to seeing
many “pro’s” in favor of going
coed, but he also concedes there
are many “‘cons.”’

ePro: “The role of women (in
society) has changed. When my
college at Oxford (Wilson was a
Rhodes Scholar) admitted
women in 1975, I knew the world
had changed.”

ePro: “Schools which were
once all-male have seen moral
reasons to change. Society has
changed; there is no
discrimination on the basis of
gender.”

ePro: ‘‘W&L strives to
educate the nation’s leaders,
whether they be men or women,
Bob Doles or Elizabeth Doles.”’

ePro: “Women, a Princeton
study (at a time when it was
considering coeducation)
found, were viewed as nice
entertainment for the group
from Friday noon to Sunday
evening. I don’t know if that
same situation exists here or
not.” (Pres. Wilson, it does ex-
ist here with the exception that
we also like them on Wed.even-
ings.)

ePro: “Excluding the two
military schools — VMI and the
Citadel, which have a stake in
the severity of life — the other
three schools (Hampden-
Sydney, Wabash, and W&L)
want to offer choice. But how

realistic is that argument? How
many students choose the
school on the basis of being all-
male? Admissions says it loses
many prospective students
because it is all-male. I heard
two freshmen in this class did
not know W&L was all-male un-
til they got here for orienta-
tion.”’

eCon: ‘It may be tradition,
standards, understanding (that
make this university special).
How coeducation would change
it and what it will change in this
university, I donot know.”

eCon: The fraternities would
be hurt by coeducation. “‘Some
fraternities don’t deserve to
survive.”

eCon: ‘Alumni giving might

go down.” ‘Where woiild
women be housed?”’
eCon: ‘‘There are the

peripheral issues, like athletics
and entitlements under Title IX
and having to hire medical
authorities suited to women’s
needs.”’

eIn short, “I think we need to
talk about this one over the next
few years.”

He took a stand, albeit un-
popular. He made his opinion as
clearly understood as could be
expected.

There can be no doubt in any
student’s mind where Pres.
Wilson stands on coeducation.
As a scholar sincerely in-
terested in the welfare of a fine
academic university, a
businessman wary of the declin-
ing numbers of college-bound
students, and an egalitarian
with a keen sensitivity to the
potential contribution of women
in the intellectual realm, Wilson
favors coeducation. As presi-
dent of a university proud of its
all-male heritage, he is no
iconoclast and seeks no im-
mediate fame as one.

May the rumors cease and
serious discussion begin anew
on this issue.

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

BAUME, occ ic cc cccedvsseceveiains
Business Manager............eeeseeeeeeee
News BAMA 6 icc cvecrccccectccédeseecees

Sports Editor ........cccceeveesseeeeevers
Assistant Sports Editor ...............065

Managing Editor..............seceeeeeees
Head Photographer ...........--+++eeee0%
Photographer ........cscccccecceeeeveees
Entertainment Editor.............++e00e08
ps rere rio eS

Advertising Manager ..........6.seeeeeees
AGGAMSMER. 0. cocccccccccccccccccseces
Circulation tall... ccc cccccccceceeccnsece

Andrew Hoppes, Ted LeClercq,
Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson,
Markham Shaw Pyle, Win Sisson,
Tom O’Brien
Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
Greg Aydt, Todd Barstow

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phiis otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m, Monday of the week they are to be run, This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

y
4

»TWe BATTLE FOR THE PRESIDENT

\
\\ \

‘5 MIND

  

Student input explained

To the Editor,

In regard to Bruce Potter’s
editorial in the Ring-tum Phi of
April 21 (Faculty Moves
Without Input), I wholehearted-
ly agree with the basic premise
— that there should be student
input on major policy changes
but I must take exception to the
conclusion that student par-
ticipation in the decision-
making process is not currently
provided for in the governing
structures of the university. I
am therefore writing in an ef-
fort to set the record straight
and to clear up some obvious
misunderstandings apparent in
that editorial.

First as to the avenues now
available for student input on
major policy decisions within
the university. As emphasized
by Bennett Ross in last week’s
Executive Committee meeting,
the President of the Student
Body does meet with the Board
of Trustees and for all practical
purposes fulfills the role urged
by the Phi’s editorial writer,
that of a non-voting student
member.

Thirteen students are elected
to membership on the Universi-
ty Council which, among its
other functions, serves as a
forum to ‘‘discuss and debate
university business, providing
an advisory group represen-
tative of the university com-
munity.” All major issues and
proposals for policy changes
are discussed in the University
council prior to final determina-
tion and action. The Council’s
monthly meetings are open to
the Phi and to the student body,
with notice of the dates and
times of meetings prominently
publicized on campus.

In addition to the Council
members, there are also two
student representatives on the
Committee on Courses and
Degrees, two on the Faculty Ex-
ecutive Committee, and five on
the Student Affairs Committee.

These students serve as student
body representatives on these
committees and _ provide
another means for the expres-
sion of student ideas and opi-
nions on important issues.

The two specific examples
cited by Mr. Potter to
demonstrate faculty actions
“without input’ are the addi-
tion of pluses and minuses to
our grading system and the new
general education re-
quirements. Here are the facts.
Changes in the grading system
were considered several years
ago without resolution. The
matter was discussed again on
April 20, 1982 by the Committee
on Coursee and Degrees and by
the University Council on April
29: both students and faculty
present at the Council meeting
expressed general approval of
the proposal. On May 3, 1982,
the faculty voted to add pluses
and minuses to the letter
grades, effective Sept. 1983 and
applicable to all students.

In regard to the general
education requirements,
University Council members
received copies of the Report of
the Committee on General
Education on April 29, 1982.
Last fall the University Council,
as well as the Student Body Ex-
ecutive Committee, again
received copies. The Council
held a lengthy discussion of the
report at its meeting on Oct. 29
and voted (9-8) to recommend
to the faculty the deletion of the
proposed foreign language re-
quirement. Neither students
nor faculty were unanimous in
this recommendation, which
was conveyed to the faculty at
its Movember meeting. The
faculty took no action on the
matter until March 29, 1983
(allowing additional time for
expression of student opinion),
when it voted to accept the new
requirements. Perhaps the ob-
jection is not so much the lack
of opportunity for student opi-
nion to be heard, but that the

faculty did not vote the way
some students urged.

The lesson that emerges from
these examples, it seems to me,
is that opportunities for the ex-
pression of student opinions and
ideas do in fact exist at
Washington and Lee now. If
that is the case, the crucial
question then becomes whether
or not students are taking full
advantage of these opportuni-
ties. The challenge is to do just
that.

Dean Lewis John

Pompous Pyle

To the Editor,

Weare sorry to report that we
have stumbled across (stepped
in, rather) Markham Pyle’s re-
cent column on Central
America (‘Banana Manana,”
April 21, 1983) which starts off
with ruminations about rural
life in his Texas home and ends
by suggesting that the sanction-
ing of political genocide by El
Salvador’s ‘legal system’’ is,
as a quaint foreign custom,
beyond criticism.

We are tempted to say that
Mr. Pyle’s offering is a
despicable exercise in pompous
doubletalk serving a morally
reprehensible position, but who
are we to say? After all, Mr.
Pyle’s rationale may be to ra-
tional discourse as Salvadoran
justice is to our limited vision of
it — just a different way of do-
ing things.

We are glad, though, that Mr.
Pyle likes the fact that there is
room in the “ideology” and
‘consciences’ of rightist
regimes in Central America for
“‘repentence.’’ We hope the
same thing holds true for his
own.

Sincerely,
Edmund Perry
W&L ’82, Yale Law School

John Colwell
Yale Law School

Richard Joselson
Yale Law School
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983, Page 3

 

 

Dean Watt takes leave, goes to Oxford

William J. Watt, dean of the
College at Washington and Lee
University since 1971, has an-
nounced his intention to resign
from that position at the end of
the 1983-84 academic year.

Dr. Watt will return to full-
time teaching as professor of
chemistry in the fall of 1985. He
will spend the 1984-85 academic
year studying at Oxford Univer-
sity in England while on leave
of absence from W&L.

The announcement of Watt’s
decision was made by Wash-
ington and Lee President John
D. Wilson. In notifying the
faculty of Watt’s intention,
Wilson praised Watt’s contribu-
tions to the university.

“T can testify to the universal
respect (Dean Watt) has earned

for himself, the College (W&L’s
arts and sciences division), and
the university in his work away
from Lexington — in the Com-
monwealth to be sure, but in na-
tional and foreign settings as
well.... We owe him more than
we can ever repay,” Wilson
said.

Wilson announced the forma-
tion of a nine-member dean’s
search committee to seck
Watt’s successor and noted that
the committee will conduct a
national search in order “to
seek the best possible. appoint-
ment for this vital position.”

A member of the Washington
and Lee faculty since 1955, Watt
was named assistant dean of
the College in 1966. Two years
later he was named associate

dean.

During his deanship, Watt has
been a member of several im-
portant national and regional
organizations. In July he will
preside as chairman over the
annual meeting of the National
Dean’s Conference in Still-
water, Okla. He is former presi-
dent of the Conference of Aca-
demic Deans of the Southern
States and has been an active
participant in the American
Association of Higher Educa-
tion conferences.

Watt is a native of Carbon-
dale, Ill. He received his bache-
lor’s degree in chemistry from
the University of Illinois and his
master’s and doctorate from
Cornell.

He taught at Cornell and at

Barritt prepares for President
Wilson’s inauguration

When he was appointed Wash-
ington and Lee’s university
marshal eight years ago, C.
Westbrook Barritt had no idea
what would be in store for him
this spring.

As the university marshal
and chairman of the public
functions committee, Barritt
has been charged with the task
of making certain the inaugura-
tion of W&L President John D.
Wilson goes off without a hitch
on May 19.

For the past four months Bar-
ritt, who is head of the romance
languages department and has
taught Spanish at W&L since
1952, has spent hours upon
hours poring over invitation
lists and coordinating hotel ar-
rangments and arranging for
extra parking spaces at neigh-
boring VMI and searching for
an outdoor orchestra shell and
worrying about whether the
weather will cooperate and ...
well, you get the picture.

“Once I finish with this in-
auguration I may hire myself
out to other colleges as an in-
auguration consultant — and
throw in a graduation or two for
good measure,” said Barritt,
smiling from behind a desk pil-
ed high with correspondence
and memos about the inaugura-
tion.

Wilson is the 21st president of
Washington and Lee. His in-
auguration will be held at 3 p.m.
on May 19 in front of Lee Chapel
with Thomas A. Bartlett,
chancellor of the University of
Alabama System presenting the
inaugural address. The public is
invited to attend the ceremony.

The last inauguration at W&L
was in 1968 when Robert E.R.
Huntley became president. Bar-
ritt has relied heavily on notes
that were left from the planning
of that inauguration.

“Leon Sensabaugh (retired
professor of history) was the
chairman at that point and
made excellent notes,”’ Barritt

said. “We are following the pro-
cedures done then to some ex-
tent, but there are differences
simply because of the scope of
the inauguration. President
Wilson wants to keep it as un-
complicated as possible.”

That, of course, is easier said
than done.

“One of the traditions of a col-
lege inauguration is that presi-
dents of other colleges are in-
vited to attend,’’ noted Barritt.
“In this instance we have
limited our invitations to other
colleges to include all the four-
year institutions in Virginia,
those colleges that are older
than Washington and Lee, and
then a group of colleges with
which we or Dr. Wilson have
some special association.”

All told, the presidents (or
their appointed represen-
tatives) of about 50 colleges and
universities will be in attend-
ance as will representatives of
10 learned societies and educa-
tional organizations.

When one of the invited guests
accepts the university’s invita-
tion to attend, Barritt must
make certain that hotel ac-
comodations are available for
those who require such ar-
rangements.

Then there is the task of get-
ting all the principals in the in-
augural procession — in the
proper order and on time.

“That part of the job is: not
that much different from what I

SEE eS OSCAR
ee
sett | ae

& Mon. All
Seats $1.50

 

5 a
gel 4

 

at
Ends Thurs. 7:15 &9
“House on Sorority Row” (R)
——" STARTS FRIDAY!

AYKROYD s

- am required to do each year for

our commencement exercises,
which had been my primary re-
sponsibility as university mar-
shal — until now, that is,” Bar-
ritt said.

The details are endless. Extra
parking for all the guests must
be found. Academic robes must
be ordered for those partici-
pants who require them. The
programs must be composed
and printed: The seating ar-
rangements must be coor-
dinated with buildings and
grounds superintendent Jim Ar-
thur. Music by the W&L Brass
and Percussion Ensemble and
the university’s Glee Club must
be arranged. The out-of-town
visitors must be given a place to
register and instructions on
where to be and when to be
there. Then there are the
flowers, and security and alter-
nate sites in the event of incle-
ment weather — ah, yes, the
weather.

“The weather is perhaps my
biggest worry,” said Barritt.
“There is the chance that it will
rain and force us to move in-
doors. And there is the chance
that the heat will be unbearable
at 3 o’clock on a mid-May after-
noon.”

That is one detail over which
Barritt has no control. Not even
a university marshal armed
with the university’s rather im-
posing mace has power over the
highs and lows and jet streams.

= = aah at 0° q
CINEMA cy!

   

  

 

Davidson prior to joining the
W&L faculty. He had been a
participant in the Robert E. Lee
Research Program at W&L and
has sponsored National Science
Foundation research grants for
Washington and Lee undergrad-
uates. He has been a research
participant at the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory, a visiting
professor for an NSF Institute
for High School Teachers at
Alabama College, an NSF re-
search participant at the

 

es
“yay
MWC ene

 

The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

May 10th

It's The Place To Be”

University of Virginia, and
visiting professor of chemistry
at UVa.

Active in civic affairs in Lex-
ington, Watt is past president of
the Rockbridge Chapter of the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts,
former chairman of teh Rock-
bridge Library Board, a past
president of the Rockbridge
Concert Theatre Series, and a
former member of the vestry of
R.E. Lee Episcopal Church.

al

— ii a” aan 2” ain a aan oe an oe a a en a a a ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee Be eee ee eae eee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This
Your Headquarters For

Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality

  
    
 

 

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983

 

 

Forest Service offers summer jobs

If you can sacrifice salary for
a chance to gain valuable work
experience this summer, the
U.S. Department of Agri
culture’s Forest Service has a
program just for you.

It’s called the Volunteers in
the National Forests and the
program is gaining popularity
among college students who are
looking for meaningful ways to
spend their summers.

“Sure I was skeptical about
not getting a paycheck, but I
took a gamble and it paid off,”’
said Paul Leadabrand who
served as a_ volunteer
wilderness ranger in Colorado’s
magnificent Eagles Nest
Wilderness. ‘‘I was majoring in
forestry production at Hum-
boldt State College in Arcata,
Calif., and I saw the volunteer
program as a good opportunity
to get some real experience.
Even though I didn’t earn much
money, it turned out to be a
very worthwhile summer.”’

While serving as a volunteer,
Leadabrand completed a study
on the impact of four-wheel-
drive vehicles on the
wilderness. His work was so
well received that after he
graduated, the Forest Service
hired him on a permanent basis
to supervise the use of off-road
vehicles in the wilderness.

The snow-capped peaks of the
Eagles Nest also provided
valuable experience for Diane
Nelson of Galva, Ill.

“I saw the Volunteer Pro-
gram as an opportunity to gain
experience and to do something
different,” she said. ‘‘Instead of
working in the heat of Illinois, I
spent my summer maintaining
trails and patrolling campsites
in mountainous areas that were
often more than 12,000 feet high
and snow covered.”’

Nelson also said the ex-
perience she gained as a
volunteer was helpful in com-
pleting her studies in recreation

GERAHHAHHAEAAA AAA ARRAS,
Get Your Minds
Turning
and Pens Flowing

Articles for the spring issue of
| Excelsior are due May 13.

and parks administration at II-
linois State University.

“Last year alone, more than
42,000 volunteers contributed
work to the Forest Service
valued at $15 million,” said Stan
Gaylord, the Forest Service’s
national volunteer coordinator.
“In return, we gave them a
chance to gain valuable ex-
perience and to expand their
horizons. We also provided in-
surance coverage and often
reimbursed them for incidental
expenses.”’

Gaylord explained that the
Forest Service makes every ef-
fort to place volunteers in iohs
that are both interesting and
related to the volunteers’ in-
terests or career goals.

For instance, most people
don’t associate the Forest Ser-
vice with computers. But many
volunteers are finding the agen-
cy to be an excellent place to
gain experience with the latest
data processing equipment.

‘As far as I’m concerned, be-
ing a Forest Service volunteer
is definitely a good ex-
perience,” said Debbie Irvine, a
19-year old computer sciences
major at Lassen College in
Susanville, Calif. As a volunteer
working in the supervisor’s of-
fice of the nearby Lassen Na-
tional Forest, she spends
several hours each day entering
Forest Service data into the
agency’s computers. ‘‘Because
I live only a few minutes away
from the office, volunteering is
almost like having all this
sophisticated equipment in my
own home. Without the
volunteer program, I would
never have had the opportunity
to gain as much experience as I
am getting now.”’

Journalism students also find
the Volunteer Program to a

‘good source of valuable ex-

perience.
“While majoring in jour-
nalism at California’s Chico

 

welcome also.

The topic of discussion will
be technology and the future.
Replies to the last issue are

 

 

Any questions call Chris Bouquet
463-9524

 

ELEAF HED

State College, I spent three days
a week during the summer
working in the information of-
fice of the Mendocino National
Forest,” said Peggy Markham
of Hollister, Calif. “‘Not only did
I get a chance to work at a
variety of information jobs, but
the many different kinds of peo-
ple who came to the office to ask
questions about the Forest Ser-
vice increased my understand-
ing of the wide variety of au-
diences the agency serves. I
find that experience to be par-
ticularly useful in my current
job as a newspaper reporter.”’

Barbera Merlin, a student at
San Francisco State, is current-
ly working as a volunteer in the
Forest Service’s regional infor-
mation office in San Francisco.
The program has been so well-
received that San Francisco
State students who volunteer
receive credit toward gradua-
tion. Among her other volunteer
duties, Merlin is putting
together a discussion panel to
recruit more volunteers.

Some of the more traditional
natural resource professions

associated with the Forest Ser-
vice, such as timber, wildlife,
and recreation management,
are notorious for the difficulties
they pose for students who want
| to gain experience in them. The
volunteer program helps
eliminate these difficulties,

“Volunteering provided me
with my first real field ex-
perience,” said Bob Willging, a
wildlife management and
biology major at the University
of Wisconsin. ‘‘Last summer, I
spent five valuable weeks as a
volunteer wildlife management
assistant on the Chequamegon
National Forest in Wisconsin.
I’m sure that experience will
make my resume look more at-
tractive to prospective
employers after I graduate.”’

The Volunteers in the Na-
tional Forest program has even
become international in scope.
Last year, Thomas Wurth, in
forestry at the University of
Freiburg in West Germany,
volunteered to help out on the
Klamath National Forest in
California.

The Volunteers in the Na-
tional Forest program is not
limited to college students.
High school students may also
participate, although permis-
sion must be obtained from
parents if the students are
under the age of 18.

Three times each week, high
school students Mark Swenson
and Denise Bishop spend two
hours after school working as
volunteers in the supervisor’s
office for the Sequoia National
Forest in Placerville, Calif. As
volunteers, Mark enters data
into a computer and Denise
works in the information office.

There are Forest Service of-
fices in 44 states, the Virgin
Islands, and Puerto Rico. To
sign up as a volunteer, contact
one of these offices listed in teh
phone book under ‘“U:S.
Government, Department of
Agriculture,’’ or write:
Volunteers, Forest Ser-
vice,USDA, Box 37483,
Washington, D.C. 20013. The on-
ly qualifications needed by
volunteers are good health and
a willingness to work.

 

Wilson

(continued from page 1)

said. “35% of us are not
members of fraternities and
I’m not sure what kind of social
or co-curricular or extra-
curricular life the university
helps to provide for students
who haven’t decided to go that
way.”

Also, Wilson said, he’s ‘‘a lit-
tle worried about our
quintessentially residential uni-
versity, and yet we scatter ina
rather quick fashion...

‘“‘While I don’t blame you for
not driving in from Glasgow,”
Wilson said, ‘‘I’ve been embar-
rassed to go to a basketball
game and find 25 or 30 students
there, for example, most of
them freshmen, because they
were able to come across from
the residence hall without in-
vesting a lot of time in it.’’

He said ‘‘you tend to get in for
the things you most want to do,
but I don’t think it’s as easy as it
ordinarily is to be part of a
stimulating university environ-
ment.”

The same problem affects the
fraternities, he said. ‘‘We have
this curious social pattern
where the houses are mainly oc-
cupied by sophomores....
Juniors and seniors abandon
the houses.”’

“Some of the places the
juniors and seniors live sound
really idyllic, and I’m sure that
a certain kind of decent lifestyle
can be created out there, but it
doesn’t create a university com-
munity. It’s hard to come back
at night.”

In the area of the curriculum,
Wilson said that the University
is going to ‘‘rethink’’ the direc-
tion of the Engineering depart-
ment. They also will be seeing
“whether we want to do more
with” computer science.

In addition, Wilson said that
although the University has a
number of very strong foreign
study programs, Russian
studies and the Soviet Union
have been ‘‘neglected,’’ even
though that field is ‘‘important
to America’s future’ and has
‘‘an intellectual richness.”’

Wilson’ invited student

response to the concerns he ex-
pressed. “I don’t need some
help on all of these things...I
really would welcome your
communication on them, either
by stopping in or by writing to
me.”’

Wilson has also been pleased
to meet his faculty colleagues,
and says he’s been impressed
by their ‘‘competence,’’
“decency,” and “stature as
human beings.’’

He drew laughs with the
remark that “‘there’s no point in
a9 to1 ratioif the company isn’t
very good.”

The president also com-
plimented the student body,
although cautiously. He said he
was “risking the terrible error
of flattering the young. I think
it’s the worst make young peo-
ple think better of themselves.”

He spoke again later of ‘‘the
danger of spoiling the young,”
saying facetiously, ‘I don’t
think you’re all that damn good,
but you’re not bad.”

At the outset of his speech,
Wilson said, “I’m really truly

talking about first impressions
of a University that after all is
235 years old or more and has
many, many deep currents run-
ning through it.

“I don’t for a moment sup-
pose that I have a feel for all of
those or that I truly understand
Washington and Lee and its peo-
ple and its past and its strengths
and its weaknesses. I have only
the most tentative impres-
sions....All of these impressions
are subject to revision and
change as I learn more about
you.”

Wilson said “there are many,

many things I’ve come to ad-
mire about Washington and Lee
in these first few months.”’ One
of those is that “‘it isn’t embar-
rassed to have ideals.”’

“I think the idea of the
gentleman scholar went
through an awful period of buf-
fetting in the late sixties and
early seventies and was scoffed
at by the deep cynicism that
entered our society at that time,
but I think it’s still alive — it
may flicker from time to time,
but it’s still alive here,”’ he said.

He also likes that “‘it’s an old
and venerable place.’ He said,
“T’ll be frank to tell you I haye
yet to walk down that Collonade
without feeling a certain sense
of genuine privilege that I’m
walking along a walkway that
has been traversed by so many
men of the first rank.’’

Another plus for W&L is its
physical environment, Wilson
told the students. ‘‘Lexington is
an interesting physical campus,
I think. It is not New York.
Some of us say, ‘Thank
God....’ I quite like life here.”’
“Blood Feud’s’’

Though his closest friends
would never recognize him,
Washington and Lee University
journalism professor Clark
Mollenhoff will be spending a
lot of time on national television
during the next two weeks.

Twenty-five years ago Mol-
lenhoff won a Pulitzer Prize for
his investigative reports on
labor racketeering in general
and Teamster boss Jimmy Hof-
fain particular.

Earlier this month a televi-
sion docu-drama chronicling
the investigation and trials of
Hoffa was released in major
markets throughout the United
States. Entitled ‘‘Blood Feud,”’
the program features a charac-
ter by the name of Clark Mol-
lenhoff, an aggressive reporter
for the Des Moines Register and
Tribune and the Minneapolis
Star and Tribune.

The Mollenhoff character is
played by actor Douglas Dirk-
sen who is less than 6 feet tall,
balding, mustachioed, and soft-
spoken (compared to Mollen-
hoff’s resounding bass, at
least).

“I recognize the words that
are spoken, but the Mollenhoff
in “Blood Feud”’ doesn’t look or
sound a bit like I do — or did
back then,” Says Mollenhoff.

Lexington-area cable TV
viewers will get an opportunity
to see for themselves on May 11
when WDCA-TV in Washington
(Channel 12 on the Lexington
Cable System) airs the four-
hour program which was pro-
duced by Operation Prime
Time and is being shown on
more than 8:0 stations
throughout the country.

Aside from the obvious
physical differences between
himself and the character who
portrays him, Mollenhoff feels
“Blood Feud”’ represents a fair-
ly accurate version of the
episode.

“‘T read the original script and
have seen some clips from the
movie,” noted Mollenhoff, ‘‘and
from what I have seen and read
it is fairly accurate. There are
obvious instances of taking
poetic license in the film. For
example, I am shown talking
with Hoffa at the prison after

his conviction. That conversa-
tion actually took place in the
courtroom.

“‘But many of the exchanges
are literally taken from my ac-
counts and other accounts of the
investigation and trials. There
may have been a few instances
in which the producers of the
film were overreaching in order
to heighten the drama.”’

Mollenhoff said he was not
surprised that members of
Robert Kennedy’s family are
unhappy with the way Kennedy
is portrayed in the film, which
centers on the decade-long con-
frontation between Hoffa and
Kennedy, who was chief counsel
to the McClellan Committee
and later U.S. attorney general
and senator from New York.

“I would expect the Kennedys
would not like what they saw on
the screen,’”’ Mollenhoff said.
“The words and the mood of
Bobby Kennedy in the film were
both aggressive — at times
overly aggressive. But he could
not have done his job well had
he always held back.”

Mollenhoff has been a mem-
ber of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1976 but still keeps
in touch with his old capital beat
by writing for the Washington
Times.

STATE THEATRE
Resse" ty
Ends. Thurs.

“Spring Fever’
7:15 &9 (PG)

Stants Fuday !

Eves. 7 &9:15
Sat.-Sun. Mat. 2
& Mon. All
$1.50 (R)

Seats f

 

| RICHARD GERE
DEBRA WINGER

 

 

Earn $500 or more each school year. Flexi
hours. Monthly payment for placing posters on
campus. Bonus based on results. Prizes awarded

as well. 800-526-0883.

 

      
   

(e)(eXe)e)

gradu

  

(@)

 

DOOQOQDQDOODOODOOQDOD®D®OO©ODODO®DODOO®OODOO®DOOO®OOODOO®O®OO®OO®

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983, Page 5

 

Bennett Ross (left) receives congratulations from Washington and Lee University President John D.

Wilson after Ross was presented the Frank J. Gilliam Award during ceremonies last week. Ross is a
senior business administration major from Huntington, W.Va. (Cronin photo for W&L)

Ross Awarded Gilliam Award

Bennett L. Ross of Hunting-
ton, W.Va., president of the stu-
dent government at Washington
and Lee University, received
the student body’s highest

Frank Johnson Gilliam Award
at the annual senior class ban-
quet.

Ross will receive his bachelor
of science in commerce degree

ministration major and will re-
main at Washington and Lee
next year when he joins the
university’s admissions office
as an admissions counselor.

honor Wednesday, April 27,
when he was presented the

GREEK WARS
DOMINO’S PIZZA
OFFERS $300 CASH

All fraternities are eligible to win. Winner need only

to purchase the most pizza between Sunday May 7 and
Saturday May 14th.

Instant party: Orders of 30 or more large pizzas at one
time will receive a complimentry keg of beer with tap.
$50 deposit required along with 48 hours notice. Cups
and napkins provided. |
PAPPAAAPAAAAAADAAPRAPDPADPDDPPPPPADPDDPPPAD PAPAL PP PAA APP PPP PPPS

(Pizzas ordered do not have to be delivered to the
fraternity to be credited to your total. Participants need
only mention their fraternity to which the order is to be

credited.)
BOTH LARGE AND SMALL
PIZZAS COUNT

PPP PP PP PLE PLE LLL LPP PLP IAP PEP LP IP IPL LPL LPL PPL PPPOE EOP EMP EL LPL AOE

As of Tues. May 3:
1. PHI KAPPA SIGMA 3. PHI DELTA THETA

2. PI KAPPA ALPHA 4. SIGMA PHI EPSILON
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
CHI PSI

23S. JEFFERSON

in June. He is a business ad-

DOMINO’S
PIZZA

 

HOURS: 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Sun.-Thurs.
1] a.m.-2 a.m. Fri. & Sat.

463-7309

 
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983

inority recruiting at W&L:

By PHIL MURRAY
Phi Staff Writer

[Editors Note: This is the first
of a series on black students at
Washington and Lee.]

“lf we are ever going to
understand each other, we are
going to have to study together
and be educated together.
There isn’t this opportunity
really now at W&L for either the
black or white man; so diversi-
ty, racially, is extremely impor-
tant.”

From an interview by the Ring-
tum Phi

with James D. Farrar, director
of

admissions at W&L, Dec. 5,
1969.

"We need to come to some
fuller understanding of the
black experience in the United

States.’’
John D. Wilson, President
W&L, April 27, 1983

In 16 years since the first
black applicant to Washington
and Lee University was admit-
ted, school officials have pledg-
ed a commitment to meaningful
integration.

But the black community at
W&L remains only a nominal
group. Since 1966, only 93 black
students have matriculated and
39 have graduated from the
undergraduate school. Today
there are 24 blacks on a campus
of about 1300, taught by an all-
white faculty.

And the numbers show no
sign of increasing. Although the
number of blacks applying has
increased in the past three
years, the number enrolling has
_ remained at a consistently low
level.

“Looking at the stastistics,
we’re not doing that well,’’ said
John White, director of minori-
ty affairs. ‘‘But we're doing all
that a small college can do.”’

Now minority recruitment at
W&L and other private institu-
tions in the state faces an uncer-
tain future.

Virginia public colleges and
universities have received a
mandate from a federal judge
to increase enrollment of black

freshmen and transfers in 1985
by about 20 percent, or face a
cut in federal funds. (See
related story. )

Competition for qualified
black students will become
unusually keen.

Among private schools,
W&L’s dilemma is not unique.
Only a very few four-year
private institutions in Virginia
can claim a minority enroll-
ment above five percent.

The problem is not a lack of
enthusiasm on the part of the
administration or admissions
staff at W&L.

“We are making a good-faith
effort toward affirmative ac-
tion,” said Van Pate, associate
director of admissions.

Between 2,000 and 2,500 black
high school seniors receive in-
formation from W&L each
year; and a combination of
financial aid, grants and
scholarships give W&L ‘‘one of
the most attractive recruitment
policies of any small college,’
White said.

Yet the percentage of minori-
ty students enrolling from the
numbers applying is only 34
percent. Black students are
simply not attracted toW&L.

“They’re just not biting,”
White said.

Problems

Admissions officals at W&L
and VMI have identified several
problems that they believe
hinder efforts to recruit black
students:

ePerception

W&L was one of the last
schools in the country to in-
tegrate; and its links to the
traditions of the Old South have
created a considerable image
problem among blacks.

While W&L enjoys con-
siderable respect by middle-
and upper class white circles, it
does not have a good reputation
among blacks.

“Historically we’ve got to
fight a misapprehension on the
part of the black community.
We have to convince them that
we are sincere,”’ White said.

The school’s location adds to
that apprehension. Most black
students are recruited from ur-

 

 

BRIDGEWATER
EMORY AND HENRY
FERRUM
HAMPDEN-SYDNEY
HAMPTON INSTITUTE
HOLLINS
LYNCHBURG COLLEGE
MARY BALDWIN COLLEGE

RANDOLPH-MACON (ASHLAND, VA)
RANDOLPH-MACON
ROANOKE

SWEET BRIAR
UNIV. OF RICHMOND
WASHINGTON & LEE

   

PERCENTAGE OF MINORIT
Virginia private colleges an

Information from the |

Graphics by Pete Cron

 

 

Washington and Lee’s problem in recruiting minority students is
not unique. Only a few four-year institutions can claim a minority

enrollment above 5 percent. Hampto.

black college in the Tidewater area.

 

 

 

Minority Recruiting
at W&L

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1982 | 1981 | 1980 41979] 197
22 29 31 13 13 | APPLIED
13 23 26 7 7 | ACCEPTED
7 7 14 7 2 | ENROLLED

 

 

 

 

ss

| director

 

 

ban areas and are not generally

- attracted toa rural campus.

Moreover, many are concern-
ed about coming to a college
where blacks are few in number
on campus and in the communi-

ty.

“T think they are put off when
they come into a community
where they don’t join black pro-
fessionals,’’ Wilson said. ‘“This
side of the Blue Ridge Moun-
tains, there is not a black com-
munity to join.”

White also believes location is
a problem. ‘‘A lot of parents are
skeptical about sending their
sons to a_ predominatingly
white, all-male college in
Southwest Virginia ;” he said.

Competition

W&L is in head-to-head com-
petition for top black high
school seniors with some of the
best schools in the country,
many of which can offer full tui-
tion or scholarships for minori-
ty students.

As a private university, the
cost of coming to W&L prevents
serious consideration by poor
families, black and_ white,
despite liberal financial aid pro-
grams.

Many promising black can-
didates have been lured away
by the service academies as
well. White remembers more
than one student committed to
W&L who has backed out after
being accepted at the US.
Naval Academy.

*A small pool
Col. William J. Buchanan,
of admissions at
Virginia Military Institute, sees
another problem existing at the
secondary school level.

He said not enough blacks are

taking college preparatory
courses in high school to qualify

them for admission at schools
such as VMI and W&L. Only 33
percent of all males, white and
black, take any college prep
courses, he said.

To counteract that, VMI has
undertaken ‘‘project _transi-
tion,” in which minority high
school students are brought to
summer school at VMI without
charge “to pump up their
backgrounds,”’ In addition, VMI
can offer full athletic scholar-
ships to qualified blacks.

Approximately 4.6 percent of
VMI’s student body is black.

°No Women

W&L is crippled by its all-
male status, primarily because
the school cannot recruit black
women.

“Fifty-one percent of the
population goes right there,”
White said.

It also limits the social oppor-
tunities W&L can offer to black
students. The black com-
munities at the surrounding
women’s colleges are as small
as W&L’s.

“The social life at W&L for
minority students sux,’ said

Terry McWhorter, a_ black
sophomore from Cleveland,
Ohio.

No blacks are members of
fraternities and they have to
make a special effort on the
weekends, he said.

White said most blacks are
used to coeducation and may be
frightened away by the pro-
spects of an all-male college.

“Several students, otherwise
convinced to attend W&L for
academic and financial aid con-
siderations, are deterred by

   
 

eam

personal anxiety about social ~
survival in an all-male environ-
ment,” White said.

The Recruiting Pro-
gram

To combat those and other
obstacles, W&L has developed a
program to attract qualified
black students.

The process begins with a
mail campaign to high school
seniors identified through the
SAT student search.

White, who was hired in 1979
specifically to recruit and
counsel minority students,
travels about two weeks a year
to black high schools all over
the country, trying to convince

President John D. Wilson: ‘I think th

join black professionals,”’ (Photo by Pe
 

¥

AITY S$

s-

NTS:

 

 

and u sities

n the College Hi 31-82

Cronin

npton Institu edominately

ea.

~ blacks t} is right for
them.

One of ary tools is a
financial age bolstered
inrecent three grants:
$24,000 fr illsdale Foun-
dation « sboro, N.C.,
$15,000fr 2arst Founda-
tion of f < and $10,000
fromthe ‘*oundation of
Rocheste

White. _ point to suc-
cess e by black
graduate L. About 90
percent «ployed and
about on ve attended
graduate

Willian 74, ’77L, is an
assistant ~ general in
Georgia. °. Perry, ’75,
"78L, is e)

 

ink they are |
by Peter Cro

vy the FBI in

 

n they come into a community where they don’t

its New York field office.

Black alumni assist in the
recruiting effort through fund-
raising and by supplying names
of candidates. Hill heads a
black alumni group in Atlanta;
and Matthew Towns, ’74, vice
president of Wachovia Bank in
Winston-Salem, N.C., has per-
sonally contacted every black
applicant for the past three
years.

Despite that kind of effort,
W&L continues to have trouble
enticing minority students.

“T go into places like Harlem,
D.C. and Dallas,’’ White said
‘‘And I’ve had students tell me,
‘I like what I see, but I don’t
think I can make it.’ ...We’re do-
ing the best we can.”

OCR Review

W&L’s performance in

recruiting minority students is

under routine review by the Of-
fice of Civil Rights in the U.S.
Department of Education.
According to Ron Gilliam,
deputy director of the OCR
regional office in Philadelphia,
the office is required to do
periodic reviews of schools
receiving federal money.

Nevertheless, it will be the
first time W&L’s_ minority
policy has come under the
scrutiny of an outside agency.

W&L receives substantial
federal funds especially for
financial aid; under Title VI,
federal money must be used
without discrimination to race,
religion or sex. W&L is exempt
from the sex clause.

‘Frankly, I’m surprised the
OCR review has not come up.
sooner,”’ Pate said.

Pate said the OCR review is
equivalent to audits of the finan-
cial aid books conducted each
year by the federal government
to ensure that federal funds are
being dispensed properly.

The OCR wants to be sure
that W&L is doing everything it

 
   

can to recruit minority
students, he said.

An unfavorable review could
result in an ultimatum to im-
prove the recruiting process or
lose federal money.

One possible area for im-
provement is in the faculty.
There are no black faculty
members on the undergraduate
campus.

‘‘We’re going to keep our eyes
open for black faculty, ad-
ministration and staff,’’ Wilson
said. ‘That will help attract
black students.”

Black faculty also would help
with the students already here.

“It would be helpful if minori-
ty students had a few more role
models here,’’ White said’

University officials, however,
are confident that they are do-

ing as much as they can.

Gilliam said representatives
from OCR will be on campus
this month for interviews with
administration, faculty and
students.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983, Page 7

ture of problems and uncertainty

 

John White, director of minority affairs at W&L: ‘“‘They’re just not biting.” (Photo by Peter Cronin)

 

State colleges face new quotas

By PHIL MURRAY
Phi Staff Writer

Efforts at Washington and
Lee University to recruit
minority students may be com-
plicated in the next few years as
State-supported colleges and
universities scramble to meet
quotas established under a new
Virginia desegregation plan.

Virginia is under fire from
U.S. District Judge John H.
Pratt, who has threatened to cut
$100 million in federal funds
unless state schools can
demonstrate some improve-
ment in enrolling black and
other minortiy students.-

In January, Gov. Charles S.
Robb signed the new plan which
includes:

eAdjusted numerical goals
for enrollment of minority
students.

°A faculty exchange program
between black and white col-
leges.

°$1,000 scholarships for
qualified community college
students who transfer to
predominatly ‘‘other race’’ in-
stitutions.

The 3-year plan will cost
about $16 million, according to
The Washington Post.

The historically white institu-
tions must increase their enroll-
ment of black freshmen and
transfers by an average of 20
percent by next fall.

Many schools are taking ex-
traordinary steps to prove their
sincerity in recruiting blacks.
The University of Virginia, The
College of William and Mary
and George Mason University
have announced they will take
applications from blacks until
school opens in the fall.

And several institutions are
taking part in a state-funded
airplane tour of Virginia com-
munity college campuses
scheduled for today.

At Virginia Military Institute,
however, the problem is not as
severe, according to Col.
William J. Buchanan, director
of admissions. VMI’s goal has
been set at 16 black Virginians
for next year’s freshmen class
of about 400. Last year 14
entered the all-male public in-
stitute in Lexington.

“At least we have a fighting
chance,” Buchanan said.

Nevertheless, VMI is_ in-
stituting new measures to draw
more black students.

This summer, VMI will hold
its first “project transition.’
High school students will be
able to attend VMI summer
school at no cost and take col-
lege preparatory courses need-
ed to gain admission to VMI and
other institutions.

In addition, Buchanan will be
traveling for eight days later
this month with admissions per-
sonnel from other Virginia
public colleges in a_ state-
coordinated car and van tour of
community college campuses to
talk to potential transfer
students. VMI is not par-
ticipating in the plane tour.

Buchanan is critical of the
new desegregation plan, which,
he said, does not address the
problem at its roots in the
secondary school system.

“We need time to get seventh-
and eight-graders into college
prep courses,”’ he said. Judge
Pratt is giving the schools 18
months to comply.

Buchanan said it is
unrealistic to expect a college to

increase its black enrollment
unless the pool is enlarged.
Currently, only 33 percent of all
males, black and white are tak-
ing college prep courses in high
school, he said.

The NAACP Legal Defense
Fund also has blasted the new
plan,

The fund is angry because the
goals set for freshmen enroll-
ment in 1985 are lower than the

' goals set for 1981.

The Washington Post reports
that the state should have

 

enrolled 5,754 black freshmen
under the old plan while the
Robb plan calls for 5,477 by
1985.

The NAACP Legal Defense
Fund originally brought suit in
1972 to integrate colleges and
universities in Virginia and
other states.

Virginia’s first desegregation
plan was instituted in 1978.

That plan fell far short of its
numerical goals and was
declared a failure by the federal
government last summer.

Col. William J. Buchanan, director of admissions at VMI: ‘At
least we have a fighting chance.” (Photo by Peter Cronin)

 

 

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983

 

 

SOME PEOPLE
RETIRE WITH

MORE
THAN JUST A

 

 

 

 

SS

GLO WATCH

  

You work hard all your life and
what do you get?

Well, depending on where you
work, you could get cancer. Asbestos
has been proven to cause cancer.
Certain toxic chemicals like formal-
dehyde and freon are being investi-
gated. If you’ve worked with radioac-
tive particles or even worked near
them, your risk is greater.

And even if you’ve worked nowhere
hazardous, it wouldn’t hurt to get a
checkup. Because the incidence of
cancer after the age of 45 to 50
increases rapidly.

Over the next several years the
American Cancer Society will be
conducting more research into certain
lifestyles and exposures which could
increase cancer mortality.

So know the risks.

Don’t smoke.

Watch what you eat and drink.

Look for the warning signs of
cancer.

And retire not only with a gold
ticker.

But a healthy one, also.

 

How you live
may save your life.

 

Lexington video rule studied

by MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

The Lexington Planning Com-
mission is considering
regulating video game
machines within Lexington’s
historic district, which is essen-
tially the central business area.

Henry Ravenhorst, chairman
of the commission and a W&L
professor of engineering, says
that the panel is working on
“coming up with an ordinance
or an amendment to zoning or-
dinances that will provide for
game rooms.”

He says the city’s laws ‘‘at the
present time don’t permit game
rooms. At the time the or-
dinances were written, there
were no game rooms. We need
some sort of amendment to the
ordinances defining game
rooms and indicating where
they’re permitted.”

Ravenhorst says the city is
‘concerned with control.”’
Video games, he said,
‘‘sometimes attract large
groups of people, particularly
young people, some of whom
generate a lot of noise and other
activity that might not be com-
patible with our historic
district.”

One proposal the commission
is considering would permit a

China

(continued from page 1)

tisan politics”. Rittenburg sup-
ported his idea by noting that of
the more than 1000 Chinese who
have applied for political
asylum in the recent years ‘‘on-
ly something like 13’ were
granted asylum, 50 turned
down, and the rest are still on
file. Rittenburg called the Hu
Na decision ‘‘a very special and
deliberate handling...”
Rittenburg’s warnings are
ominous. The continued failure
of foreign policy of the decision
makers to understand and ap-
preciate the Chinese people ‘“‘is
getting us into trouble and may
get us into further trouble’.

 

 

 

business to have up to three
video games. If it had any more
than that, it would be con-
sidered a “game room’ and
would have to be licensed as
such.

In that case, Ravenhorst said,
if an establishment sold food
and also had four or more coin-
operated games, ‘‘the operator
may have to decide if it’s going
to be a restaurant or a game
room.”

One of the establishments
that would be affected by the
regulations is Lloyd’s of Lex-
ington, a fast-food store several
blocks from campus which has
37 video games.

Lloyd Smith, the proprietor,
said that he was unaware that
video games were under study
by the city.

Ravenhorst said there was
“no particular reason’’ Smith
had not been consulted.
“Everything we do is public.”
He added that before any
regulation is proposed,
“everyone affected will be
notified. When we have
something positive to present,
we'll involve everybody.”’

He said, ‘‘we’re trying to pro-
mote business. We don’t want to
exclude any kind of business but
we don’t want some sort of ac-

AFS Preferred Florists
We Wire Anywhere!

(703) 463-4521

 

tivity there that will be a detri-
ment to the downtown area.”

According to Ravenhorst, the
three machine limit is just one
of the options the commission is
discussing, although he said,
“We're sort of feeling that
would be the logical thing to
do.”

The regulation would affect
only the downtown, or
“historic” district, which is
bounded by Randolph and Jef-
ferson streets and McDowell
and Henry streets.

Ravenhorst says the commis-
sion is currently studying how
other cities have handled the
problem. ‘Some cities have
quite voluminous regulations
that cover these things in great
detail,’ he said, citing Norfolk
and metropolitan Washington
as examples.

Ravenhorst, who has been on
the Planning Commission for
about 15 years says the group
has had video games under
study for six months.

“‘We’re supposed to be alert to
some of the things that are
changing and happening,’ he
said. ‘‘We’ve had this game
room thing come up from time
to time and we thought it
behooved us to get these things
on the ordinances.”

   

For Your Mother’s Day Flowers!

 

Also green and blooming plants
silk arrangements and selected gifts

THE FLOWER CENTER

223 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450

 
   
   
   

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983, Page 9

 

 

The moral right vs. rights of the majority

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON
Phi Liberal-at-Large

The rights and liberties all
Americans hold dear are more
gravely threatened now than
ever before. This threat,
however, does not come from a
foreign source, but from within
the United States. The
members of the so-called moral
right or moral majority,
through restrictive legislation
or legislated morality, threaten
the liberties of all Americans.

In their zest to make America
moral again, these self-
righteous crusaders are at-
tempting to repress free
thought at its most important
and formative phase by censor-
ing and restricting books in
school libraries. In their at-
tempt to fight sexual depravity
they restrict access to abortion
and legislate ‘‘squeal laws.”
Television shows are protested
unseen, based solely on hear-
say, and rock albums are burn-
ed because they are the work of
the devil and encourage drug
abuse.

Theatre

The list could go on, but the
point is clear: the new moral

right, or ‘‘conservatism,”’’
sweeping the country is
threatening the  individual’s

right to make his own moral
decisions, think his own ideas,
or exchange his thoughts with
another person. The moral
right’s efforts here are the most
pronounced in their school
library book bannings. Books as
Diverse as The Communist
Manifesto and Slaughterhouse
Five have been banned as
“‘obscene’’ and  ‘“‘anti-
American.” And they say Mc-
Carthy is gone.

The people who banned books
from the Island Trees, N.Y.,
school library were not profes-
sional educators. In most towns
these crucial decisions about
what should be in libraries are
not made by professional
educators, but by common
citizens or political flunkies.
These amateurs, without con-
sulting the public, are able to
ban books for any arbitrary
whim, and the public is without
a means to appeal. This means

the students get only one view of
the world, the one the board of
education members approve of
and support. Dissenting or
unpleasant views are neglected.

Our forefathers knew that the
only way to arrive at the truth
was through a free exchange of
ideas, but the moral myrmidons
do not believe the common man
is capable of telling good from
evil. The preachers would
prefer to make that decision for
him.

The school child’s fragile,
growing mind is also threatened
by President Ron and the other
supporters of school prayer. No
matter how this issue is ap-
proached, no matter how
prayer is introduced to our
schoolhouses, it will violate
someone’s rights. The public
school is not the proper environ-
ment for religious indoctrina-
tion. It is up to a child’s family
and community to teach that
child right and wrong, as well
as who and what god is. No mat-
ter what efforts are made to
please the public, there will
always be one individual who

Department prepares

‘Midsummer Night’s Dream’

By NED RICHARDSON
Special to the Phi

‘“‘A Midsummer. Night’s
Dream” is being produced by
the Washington & Lee Theatre
Department May 20-25. The
play is the Spring project of the
Drama 139 class and could
prove to be the University
Theatre’s most enchanting and
ambitious dramatic event to
date. “It’s W&L high-tech
theatre,”’ according to junior
drama major Bob Ferguson.

Drama 139, better known as
Total Theatre, earns its name
because students must get in-
volved in all aspects of produc-
tion. The intention is that
students achieve a realistic in-

sight of the theatrical ex-
perience, beginning with audi-
tions and casting for roles, pro-
gressing into the stages of set
construction, lighting, special
effects, sound coordination, and
ultimately the performance
nights. A problem with the con-
cept for ‘‘A Midsummer Night’s
Dream”’ is that the technical
work planned requires much
time and patience.

The concept presented by
Tom Ziegler is constructivistic,
meaning that the set becomes
physical and can move pieces to
attain a completely different
visual effect. Ferguson, in
regard to the concept, says that
it is difficult, ‘‘but definitely
there.’”’ Although space is
limited in the Troubadour,
Ziegler’s plans are precise and

for the most part economical.
The set should prove to be as in-
teresting as director Al Gor-
don’s contemporary interpreta-
tion of Shakespeare’s classic.

Most of the play’s actors are
from the Total Theatre class;

many are newcomers to the
University Theatre. The cast
was chosen early last week
after much deliberation and
thorough auditioning. A prob-
lem here was that the expertise
needed in ‘cold readings’ left
any sure casting possibilities
impossible. Although some of
the larger roles have been filled
with experienced students,
Chris Cartmill as Oberon, Kate
Settle as Helena, Ted Petrides
as Bottom, Tom Murphy as
Starveling, the majority of
those cast are at it for the first

time. The play allows for this
because of the number of
smaller parts which are essen-
tial, and not over-burdened with
long, windy speeches. David
Marsh and Chris Carmouche
have both appeared in the
University. Theatre’s earlier
productions this year, and are
playing Flute and Egeus
respectively. Blake O’Neill is

playing Snyg, and like Bob
Bryant (Quince), Jim Farthing
(Philostrate), Kreg Kurtz
(Cobweb), and Joel James
(Lysander), O’Neill is a
newcomer to the W&L Theatre.

Steve Palmer is playing
Mustardseed, and though per-
forming for the first time, he
has. been involved with the

offered in the fall and winter.
Drew Perkins and Richard
Kopelman are splitting the role
of Puck to enhance the
character’s fantastical quality.
Perkins is a veteran last seen in
‘The Outcast’’, while
Kopelman commands W&L au-
dience s attention for the first
time.

Those cast outside of class in-
clude previously seen Chris Lil-
ja as Theseus, assistant pro-

fessor Paula Langdon who, in
her last term at W&L, plays
Titania as her swan-song, and a
host of girls from Lexington
High School. Among them is Sid
Ray, as Moth, who was involved
with props for the recent W&L
production of ‘‘Tea and Sym-
pathy.” Jennifer Wise, stage
manager for that same produc-
tion, joins the ensemble as Hip-
polyta, and the regional veteran
Andrea LaRue will play

Peaseblossom. Sarah Phimster -

will appear for the first time as
Hermia.

The technical work and ac-
ting responsibilities being
undertaken will be worth look-
ing into. W&L Theatre will out-
do itself within the confines of
the Troubadour Theatre. Well,
that’s what the enthusiastic
members of Total Theatre
know.

will be offended, and in a public
school that person’s rights can-
not be violated. By having
prayers in school there is an im-
plication that this god is cor-
rect, and this is the proper way
to pray and worship, and this in-
fringes on the individual’s right
to arrive at his own religious
beliefs. Anti-abortion legisla-
tion threatens to plunge us into
the dark ages of mob-run clinics
and coathangers. And, for those
who attempt to prevent the need
for an abortion: better be 18,
because if they have their way
they will tell your folks. Sup-
porters of ‘‘squeal laws’’ say
they will cause better com-
munication within families. It
will make families larger, if
nothing else. Attempts to in-
troduce legitimate, worthwhile
sex education are blocked,
because knowledge of such
things will result in the kids do-
ing it, as if they wouldn’t other-
wise. The moral radicals seem
to want to keep sex in the closet
or the middle ages because it is
wrong or dirty. Not only are
they living in the past, but they
are making a moral decision for
you: Sex is Wrong. They seem
to be saying: ‘Trust us, it is.
And if you do it anyway, we will
make ti as tough and dangerous
for you as we can.”’

The blindness’ and
recklessness with which they
attack this issue is shown by the
handling of a 12-year old rape
victim. Rather than permit a
desired abortion, the anti-
abortion people forced the girl
to give birth through lengthy
court battles. The girl was later
charged with child neglect.

_ Despite these obvious threats
to the individual’s right to think
and arrive at his own conclu-
sions and moral views, the
American public views the
moral extremists as little more
than an interesting diversion.
Yet they are a serious threat.
They do not say ‘‘We think you
are wrong,”’ they say, ‘‘You are
wrong,” and then try to buy a
law to make it wrong.

It is not a large or devoted
following that gives the
preachers their power, but the
tax-free dollars they get from
their TV-studio churches.
Through nation-wide mail and
media appeals the video
preachers like Oral Roberts and
Jerry Falwell are able to raise
millions, which they are able to
use as a potent political tool or
weapon. Also, because they are
sometimes able to mobilize
their followers successfully, the
moral rightists have been able
to influence elections because of
the general voter’s apathy.

Unless they are stopped soon,
the moral extremists threaten
to turn the United States into a

theocracy, with
religious/political leaders
deciding what is right or wrong

and dictating those decisions to
the public. Books considered by
the high priests to be indecent
or anti-American will be bann-
ed, discussions or ideas that are
unpleasant will be stifled, and
free thinking eliminated. By
utilizing their right to free
speech, and other rights, the
moral radicals would deprive
everybody else of those very
same rights.

 

 

East German to speak

in Lee chapel

Dr. Heidrun Schorcht, pro-
fessor of English at Jena
University in the German
Democratic Republic (East
Germany), will present two ijec-
tures at Washington and Lee
University on Monday and
Tuesday.

Schorcht’s Monday lecture is
entitled ‘‘Thirty Years of
Scoialist Development in the
German Democratic Republic:
Progress and Problems.”

Her lecture on Tuesday is en-
titled ‘German Democratic
Republic Women Writers Speak
Out on Emancipation.”’

Both lectures will be at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel and are open to
the public at no charge. The lec-
tures are being sponsored joint-
ly by the German department
and the University Lectures
Committee.

A native of Langenhain in the
Erfurt District of East Ger-
many, Schorcht studied at
Friedrich Schiller University

where she received both her un-

dergraduate and graduate
degrees. She received her doc-
torate from Jena University in
1982.

She has been spending the
current semester at Colby Col-
lege in Waterville, Maine, as
visiting professor of East Ger-
man literature and as a langu-
age teaching assistant. Her
visit to Lexington is in connec-
tion with the W&L German de-
partment’s new course devoted
to the German Democratic
Republic and its literature.

In her opening lecture Mon-
day, Schorcht will provide a
general introduction to the Ger-
man Democratic Republic,
“the other Germany.” In her
lecture on Tuesday, Schorcht
will comment on the remark-
able surge of talented women
writers in the German Demo-
cratic Republic and the position
of women in the GDR society.

 

 
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983

Norm Lord, a Darwinist philosopher?

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

Coach Norm Lord jumped on
the DuPont Auditorium stage
Monday night, emptied a long
narrow box, and immediately
began marching in military
fashion around the stage with
the box’s sole content: a broken
two by four.

“I’m going to go with NFL’s
(Norman F. Lord’s) philosophy
tonight,” he began, his ‘‘big
stick’”’ leaning against the wall
behind him. “‘I’ll tell you what I
am and what makes me tick.”’

The fifty people in the mixed
crowd of professors, university
employees, and students sat
back in their seats, and the Lor-
dian philosophy burst forth.

“1’m a_ social Darwinist,”
Lord said, jumping to a new
topic. “I also made a statement
that I’m for women. I believe
that a man should be the boss of
the household — I'll decide
when we go to war — but she is
the one who decides which
cocktail party we go to.”

His wife, seated in the front
row, smiled and looked at her
husband.

“My beautiful wife. She’s
here. Let’s give her five,” Lord
shouted, beginning the clapping

  
  

LEXINGTON - BUENA VISTA SHOPPING PARK 463-9494

so hard that a button popped off
his left sleeve and circled the
stage.

‘‘As youcan tell from the grey
hair and bald head, I’m from a
different time. I was raised in
the Depression, and we lived on
a farm. I had to get the milk out
to the lane early in the morning
so a truck could bring it to the
trains—regardless of the time,
the weather. It makes me tick-
ed today when a student comes
up to me and asks if we’re going
outside because it is raining. He
doesn’t want to get wet. I say,
“Well heck it’s raining. So?”

“I saw bulls and cows do it,
drakes and ducks, cocks and
hens, boars and sows, studs and
mares, boars — no, I already
mentioned them. Hey, I didn’t
have to be taught it. I already
knew it. Life was simpler,’’ he
lamented. ‘‘Now you know all
the problems. You have a
greater awareness, so
idealistic. You have all the opi-
nions presented to you.”’

Lord was quick to mention his
early involvement in politics
before the College Republican
group.

“I became involved with a
girl named Octavia. She had the
hots for me. Octavia was

stacked. She kept right after

 

 

me. In high school, we were
Chemistry lab partners — that
was when there were two people
to one lab. Nowadays, Dr. Shill-
ington probably has two labs to
ene student — and she was in
the Republican Party. They
were holding a mock election,

‘between Alf Landon and FDR.

Well, she kept me involved in
politics,” remarked Lord.

“Octavia was the first
(women’s) libber also. I took
her to the senior prom and she
went braless,’’ Lord said,
aghast. ‘‘A 36-32-24? Is that
right? I know what I meant!”’

Lord related another comical
story about women and politics.

“The election of 1964. I was
coming back from Houston by
train — there had been a storm.
There were some women
behind me, saying they were
voting for Johnson because
Goldwater was going to drop
nooo-clear bombs and then the
water would have radiation and
mothers would feed their babies
and the teeth of little children
would fall out. I ALMOST
VOMITED. WHAT A DAMNED
LIE. I felt like using the two-by-
four on those women,” said
Lord, evoking applause and
laughter from throughout the
audience.

maxell.

 

The Great Society and
“cradle-to-grave’”’ politics of
Lyndon Johnson encountered
Lord’s wrath. So did politics in
the pulpit. So did government
over-regulation. And govern-
ment waste. And the biased
“media.” William Buckley
would have died and gone to
heaven were he there.

And the Lord kept on talking.

“There are two kinds of
s.0.b.’s in the world. I’ll use
“s.o.b.”” instead of ‘son-of-a-
bitch,’ but you know what I
mean. Anyway, there are inten-
tional and unintentional s.o.b.’s.

’ An unintentional s.o.b. is the

guy who doesn’t lift the lid when
he urinates and dribbles on the
rim, unintentionally, and
doesn’t wipe it up. Think about
the poor guy who has to sit down
then. An intentional s.o.b. is the
guy who goes all over the rim on
purpose.”

Laughter.

“Back in the 1960’s, an inten-
tional s.o.b. named Madelyn
O’Hair came around and had
prayer taken out of the
classroom — If I had that two-
by-four — POW!” said Lord,
swinging the broken board with
the ease of a baseball bat.
“Religion has its place, but it
should never have left the

TDK.

 

 

 

 

Cartridges

AT110E

 

List $65.00

 

List $130.00
OUR PRICE $24.95 OUR PRICE $49.95

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UDC 90 3-PACK MAXELL TDK
Reg. $13.47 UDXLII a mg ae
NOW $10.49 2-UDXL . $4,
Reg. $10.98 TDK
MAXELL
LNC-120—-2BAG NOW$9.98 DC-90 2-BAG
List $11.18 Reg. $6.50
OUR PRICE $7.99 NOW ONLY $4.99
MAXELL
UDC 90 2-PAC MEMOREX
a ud io- MAXELL Reg. $8.98 HI-BIAS—3 BAG
LNC-46—2 BAG NOW $6.99 | Buy 2, Get One FREE
° List $5.18 Reg. $17.97
technica OUR PRICE $3.89 eat ce
@SANYO
Mini-Size Stereo Component
Headphonés* System
AT125LC ‘ pee ae
— SUPER CUT-OUTS — Se "1 |
; 100’s of Hard-to-Find LP’s, from $1.99 ee
Over 1400 Used LP’s, starting at 10° 7 ot
From. a ia .
$29.95 - $149.95 Ms TUNERVAMPLIIER
+ Plenty of power 20 watte por chennel.
+ Separate bees and treble controls.

SANVO SANYO Micro
$' Shor tereve /FM Stereo int Size Stereo Cassette
Recorder with
2-Way Speakers -

@SANVO Mni-
Size AM/FM Cassette
Stereo

 
  
 
  

List *499°°

 
 

classroom. Every morning I get
up, and say, ‘This is the day
which the Lord hath made. Let
us rejoice and be glad in it,’ and
look in the mirror and say ‘let’s
go get those sons of bitches.’ ’’

One s.o.b. Lord would like to
attack is government waste.

“If I could just be dictator for
one year,” he began, only to be
stopped by laughter.”’ Hey, I’d
say where there are two of you,
one has to go. I’d turn them
around.’’ More laughter
sprang from the crowd.

“It’s like urinating in your
orange juice,’’ he continued, not
missing a beat, only to be slow-
ed by more laughter. ‘It’s
human sabotage. Government
is inefficient.”’

Lord also took his two-by-four
to labor, the economy, and pro-
ductivity.

“‘We cut our own throats. We
keep the same productivity and
raise wages and become un-
competitive. We make steel in-
gots, sell them to Japan, and
ship them back here. I’m guilty.
I bought a Volkswagen, but it’s
the better car. A Toyota. It’s a
better car. The morale of labor
is bad. It’s pride, baby,
pride that’s important.”

In typical fashion, Lord left
the audience — especially the
students — with a challenge.

“It’s your challenge to turn
this industrial economy around.
It’s your challenge to find jobs.
Maybe some progress is not
good if it causes social
catastrophe,”’ he noted.

“Get involved, like I did with
Octavia. I knew what it was all
about. Reduce government size.
Increase productivity. If you
can stuff envelopes, stuff ’em
right. Don’t be a s.o.b. Be
proud. Look in that mirror and
smile. Don’t just get by. Do
your best. Improve your educa-
tion. It’s the hope of the future.
Stand up and be counted. And,
above all, marry bigger and
better and smarter women and
send your boys to W&L.”’

—

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO
23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5988
Ce el

VARNER |

¢ ae ¢ ae 6 a © <a
. ae 2 ee @ a 2 a oO

| Our Price
= $429

= 115 South Main Street

 
  

 

—__

$49°7 $59

For your extra
pieces of furniture.

Mi
'
f
'
y
| & POLE
)
)
y
y
y
y
)

 

$79% $} 59% $9993

 

 
 

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

After being overwhelmed
recently by two of the nation’s
top Division I teams, the Wash-
ington and Lee lacrosse team
was able to push third-ranked
Syracuse into overtime before
the Orangemen could avoid an
upset, 11-10. Then, the Generals
reversed form by coming from
behind against Roanoke to win
in overtime, 10-9, on Sandy
Brown’s bouncer from 15 yards.

Syracuse’s Brad Kotz ended
the Generals’ upset hopes with
his third goal of the game, com-
ing less than a minute into the
extra period.

Syracuse had to come back

twice in the fourtn quarter 10
send the game into the extra
session. Goals by Tim Nelson
and Art Lux tied it with 9:34
left, but the Generals went up
10-9 on a rebound goal by John
Buttarazzi a minute later. W&L
goalie John DiDuro came up
with several big saves with
around five minutes left, but
Tom Korrie used a bouncer to
tie it for the final time with 2:05
left.

Kotz controlled the faceoff in
overtime and went behind the
Generals’ goal before he moved
in front to release a backhander
that trickled past DiDuro, who
made the save but could not find
the ball.

“‘We hung in there. I was real

Generals bow to

Royals in ODACs

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s
baseball team lost an Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference
playoff semi-final game to
Eastern Mennonite and lost to
Virginia Military Institute to
drop its record to 8-13-1 overall.

Easter Mennonite scored nine
runs in the first three innings
and then held off a Generals’
rally to beat W&L 11-6 Saturday
at Lynchburg.

“In the third inning we had
three throwing errors that real-
ly hurt us,” W&L Coach Jim
Murdock said. ‘“‘We were just a
little overly agressive in the
field,” he said.

W&L collected 14 hits in the
game. Senior Jody Harris led
the Generals’ attack with three
hits. Senior Chris Cavalline,
junior Mike Walsh, sophomore
Chip Hutchins and freshman
Hugh Finkelstein all had two
hits.

Trailing 9-0, the Generals
fought back with three runs in
the fourth inning. A two-run
single by sophomore Mike
Jacoby highlighted the inning.

Walsh’s two-run home run in
the sixth inning closed the
Generals to with in 9-5, but the
Royals never allowed the
Generals to get any closer than
that.

Eastern Mennonite lost in the

 

COORS
Long-Neck

$9.52

 

 

EAST LEX

 

championship game to Lyn-
chburg College 20-0. Lynchburg
reached the finals by defeating
Hampden-Sydney 8-2.

This was the second time in
three years that W&L has
reached the ODAC playoffs.
The Generals won four of their
final six games to earn the third
seed in the playoffs.

‘We played well,’”’ Murdock
said of his team’s performance
in the last week of the season.
“We only had one really disap-
pointing loss and that was Lyn-
chburg,”’ he said.

Murdock said that the team’s
defense has improved over last
year’s performance. The entire
infield has improved defensive-
ly, Murdock said.

VMI scored four runs in the
ninth inning to edge the
Generals 7-4 Tuesday at VMI.

Trailing 3-2 in the seventh, the
Generals tied the game on a
double by Jacoby and an RBI
single by Harris.

W&L took the lead with a
single run in the eighth inning.
Chris Cavalline, who knocked
two W&L runs in the first inning
with a double, drove in Finkels-
tein with a triple to right center
field.

W&L concludes its season
with a doubleheader Saturday
at Smith Field against
Christopher Newport starting
at noon.

BUD
12-Pack

$4.95

 

      
   

Sports
Management quells workers 10-9

pleased with our effort,’ said
W&L coach Jack Emmer. “‘It
was a tremendous improve-
ment’’ after the Virginia and
North Carolina games, in which
the Generals were outscored by
a total of 40-11.

W&L kept up with Syracuse
by using a “stack offense,
which involves putting two at-
tackmen at either side of the
goal while another man handles
the ball behind the goal. The
strategy is used to attract two
defenders to the ball, leaving at
least one attacker uncovered.

Said Emmer of the slow-
paced offense, ‘‘It gave us an
opportunity to win and gave us
confidence in the extra-man of-
fense and extra-man defense. It
also gave us confidence to go
after the ground balls
agressively.”

W&L got its first two goals off
the stack offense. Freshman
Bill Holmes made it 1-1 with his
first goal of the season, while
Syracuse had two men out with
penalties. Caulley Deringer fed
Holmes from behind the goal
for the open shot. Geoff Wood,
who had three goals and an
assist, then found Stu Kiehne in
front to make it 2-2. After the
Orangemen ran off three
straight goals in the second
quarter, Holmes and Lee
Heimert scored 13 seconds
apart to close the deficit to one,
(5-4), at halftime.

Down 5-2 at the half, W&L us-
ed an aggressive riding defense

against the Roanoke clear while

scoring four straight goals to
take a 6-5 lead. Paul Goldsmith
scored the last goal of the
quarter to tie it at six.

In the fourth, W&L’s John
Doub and the Maroons’ Rocco
Guglielmo exchanged scores
for a 7-7 deadlock. Roanoke took
its last lead when Sean Smith,
who came into the game with 38
goals put in his only goal of the
day. Doub responded 40 seconds
later with his 12th goal of the
year. Brown and Guglielno
traded goals with around two
minutes left to send it into the
sudden-death period.

Roanoke had the ball for the
last 50 seconds after a timeout
but could not get a shot on goal
against a tight W&L defense.

The Maroons won the face-off
to start overtime and got off two
shots before the Generals
timeout. After a shot by Doub
just went wide, Brown brought
in the ball from the restraining
line and put in the winner 1:44
into the extra period.

W&L also got three goals and
an assist from Bill Holmes.
Geoff Wood had two goals in the
first half to push his team-
leading total to 25.

The Generals will play their
last home game of the season
tomorrow against Hampden-
Sydney. Opening face-off is at 2
p.m. It will be the first time the
varsity teams have faced each
other.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983, Page 11

W&L’s John Tunney moves in on the Syracuse defense in last

 

Be

 
   

Saturday’s game against the Orangemen at Wilson Field. The
Generals gave Syracuse a scare before falling 11-10 in overtime.

(Phi photo by Steven Corbeille)

Tracksters settle

for 4th in ODACs

By CHRIS FULTON
Phi Staff Writer

“We had some good in-
dividual performances, but
team-wise, we should have easi-
ly had third,”’ head coach Nor-
ris Aldridge commented about
W&L’s season finale, the
seventh ODAC Track and Field
Championships at Lynchburg
College.

Bridgewater nipped the
Generals by a single point, plac-
ing W&L in fourth in a field of
eight teams. Lynchburg stole
the meet with 166 team points
followed by Roanoke (97),
Bridgewater (86), W&L (85),
Emory & Henry (54), Eastern

Mennonite (22), Maryville (7)
and Catholic (5).

The bright spots of the meet
for W&L were once again the
performances of Angus
McBryde and Mark Pembroke.
McBryde, who always seems to
do all of his record breaking and
winning in two’s, successfully
defended his 1500-meter title
and added a win in the 5000-
meter race. His times were
4:00.32 and 15:28.27 respective-
ly. Pembroke, although nipped
at the tape by .07 seconds, broke
the school record in the 800-
meter run with a time of 1:55.52.

Both Pembroke and McBryde
will travel to the University of

(continued on page 12)

Wednesday Night Buffet

PTUs e RMT) a)

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, ant —

Cre er M Reel ale

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

FLORIST &
GREENERY

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

3) 463-9152
 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1983

 

 

 

1982-83 Tennis Team: (from left to right) Head Coach Gary Franke,
Jim Irwin (Jr.), Charles Kalocsy (Jr.), captain Craig Cannon
(Jr.), Anthonie Frens (Fr.), Scott Adams (Fr.), Andy Haring (So.),
Steve Denny (Sr.), arid Chip Archer (So.) (Calyx photo by Phil

Murray)

Netters sweep doubles,

capture 5th ODAC title

Washington and Lee swept all
three doubles flights in a thrill-
ing 64-63 upset Saturday over
host Lynchburg College to win
the seventh Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tennis
Championships. It was the
Generals’ fifth title since the
tournament’s inception.

The seven member team
trailed 59-57 after the six singles
finals. However, the Generals
then went on to tie Lynchburg
with wins at flight two and three
doubles to set the stage for the
title-clinching third-set victory
at flight one doubles. W&L only
captured two of. the six singles
titles, thus putting all the
pressure on the doubles flights.

In flight three doubles the
Generals faced the Emory &
Henry team of Joe Vaughan and
Ben Hall. W&L’s team of
sophomore Anthonie Frens and
junior Jim Irwin faced two
match points, down 5-3 in the

third set, only to come back to
win 6-2, 2-6, 7-5.

Things looked only mildly bet-
ter in the flight two doubles
final, as W&L’s Andy Haring
and Charlie Kalocsay were
down 4-5 in the first set against
Lynchburg. However, the
Generals survived again, tak-
ing the final over the Hornets,
team of Jeff Armbruster and
Max Henderson 7-6, 3-6’ 6-2.

With the ODAC championship
on the line, the Generals flight
one doubles team of Craig Can-
non and Steve Denny fought off
Lynchburg’s Buzz Frey (ODAC
Player-of-the-Year) and Jim
Sargent. W&L took another
three-set vistory to cop the
team title.

W&L shared their two singles
championships with host Lyn-
chburg and Emory and Henry.
At flight two Denny drubbed
Lynchburg’s Henderson, 6-1,

 

Time out....

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

...Can’t ignore what happened
on Wilson Field on Saturday
afternoon. Maybe the Generals
finally came into their own.
Maybe Syracuse was  over-
rated. Perhaps, but this I
believe is irrelevant. What is
relevant is the high degree of in-
tensity that not one or two W&L
players, but that the entire
team showed throughout the
contest. The intensity
manifested itself most
noticeably in the Generals’
defense. It’s here where the
Generals would stand up and
continually deny Syracuse,
keeping the game within reach
for the offense. It was
something that seemed to be
missing in prior efforts. It
would be sad and unfair to call
Saturday’s game a_ loss,
because, for the most part,
Syracuse should have felt lucky
to be on the same field as W&L.
What can be said of the game is
this: The score may have been
10-11 and our record may be 36
but the group of winners isn’t
always the team that scores
more goals...

..Hat tipping ceremonies:
Plaudits extended to the tennis

6-2, while at flight four Haring
defeated another Lynchburg
foe, Jeff Armbruster, 6-0, 7-5.

Overall, W&L took five flight
titles, one runner-up (Charlie
Kalocsay at flight six), two
third-places (Cannon at flight
one and freshman Scott Adams
at flight five), and one fourth
place (Irwin at flight three), for
a total of 64 points.

Since the ODAC title, Cannon
and Denny, ranked 50 and 54 na-
tionally in Division III, have
won bids to play both singles

team for capturing last
weekend’s ODAC champion-
ships. Belated congrats to the
golfers on their ODAC title,

Tvati the Terrible?

...Well, the arena didn’t cave
in, but Ivan Lendl did not win
Sunday’s WCT Final in Dallas.
John McEnroe, brandishing a
new mid-sized weapon of
destruction, took the honors.
The New Yorker has apparently
turned the tide of the Czech’s
domination, but we shall see.
The two are in line to meet
again this Sunday in New York.
Details to follow...

A Celtic Diet

...What have the Milwaukee
Bucks been eating?! Their
overwhelming sweep of the
Celts makes me wonder how
close their series with the Six-
ers will be. One thing’s sure.
The Philadelphia bunch will
have to be more than healthy to
untrack these guys...

 

run around in circles...the
Prince of Jersey, who has
returned from hiatus with fire
in his eyes, has these words of
wisdom: Look for Sonny’s Halo
to outdistance Marfa in the
stretch. When I asked about the
Chicago Black Hawks, he said,
“Chicago who? I meant Edmon-
ton, of course!’’ He’s lucky this
is only a weekly issue. He
reminds. me that one of the
Chisox rookies, Ron Kittle, is
among the league leaders. Just
food for thought...

.400 hitters?

...Pity poor Lee Elia. When
reminded that his ‘‘new’’ Cubs
were still in last place the over-
worked manager became in-
censed. As the saying goes, Lee,
you can’t make chicken soup
without any chickens...Speak-
ing of the big leagues, it’s nice
to see Rod Carew batting .470
and George Brett at .460. It’s
good to know the hot hitter is not
an ancient relic. For those in-
terested, Ted Williams was hit-
ting .430 in June...

..1 leave you with this.

The Prophet speaks Syracuse jumped from fourth to

...For all you fans of four leg-
ged creatures that eat oats and

and doubles in the NCAA Divi-
sion III Championships to be
held in Albany, New York, May
12-14.

The Generals closed the 1983
season on a downbeat, losing at

third in the lax poll after their
win on Saturday...

Radford 6-3, Wednesday. W&L
finishes with a deceptive won-
loss record of 7-14, which includ-
ed contests against Harvard,
UVa., JMU, and 11 other Divi-
sion I and II schools.

 

 

Track

(continued from page 11) _
Virginia Invitational to qualify
for the NCAA Division III
Championships. :

Two other Generals earned
second place finishes last
weekend: senior Gene Fellin in
the pole vault at 14 feet even,
and junior Charlie Alcorn in the

Watch for the

Alumni Weekend Sale
May 12-14

 

shot put with a 41 foot, nine inch
toss.

Showing third were sopho-
more Frank Pittman in the
1500-meter run, senior Alan Ar-
mitage in the 110-meter high
hurdles, and the mile relay
team of Pembroke, junior Paul
Chapman, sophomore Gene
Girard and freshman Ron
Moody. :

Reflecting on the 5-1 season,
Aldridge noted three new school
record holders. Angus McBryde
set two records, the 5000-meter
and 3000-meter runs with times
of 15:11.7 and 9:04.0. Mark
Pembroke set a record in the
800-meter run at 1:55.51. Alan
Armitage set a record in the
110-meter high hurdles at 15.6
seconds.

W&L loses only four gradu-
ating seniors: Alan Armitage,
Gene Fellin, Sparky Anderson,
and Eric Nelson; however Ar-
mitage and Nelson are school
record holders. Aldridge is look-
ing forward to next year —
with, he added, hopefully more
crowd support. Asked about in-
coming freshmen next year,
Aldridge said, “I have to see
them running around our track
before I’ll say anything about
them.’’
  

VOLUME 82

NUMBER 28

 

“WHE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA. 2445

Ring-tum Phi“

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia, May 13, 1983

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

 

 

Being black:

isolation and

self-doubt

By PHIL MURRAY
Phi Staff Writer

Editor’s Note: This is the se-
‘cond of a series on black students
at W&L.

At a predominantly white,
public high school in Columbus,
Ga., Robert Stephen was class
president and active in the stu-
dent council.

A licensed minister since he
‘was 18, he preaches at churches
in Lexington, Staunton and
Pennsylvania. When he
graduates from Washington
and Lee University in a few
weeks he will enter the U.S. Ar-
my as an officer.

He is intelligent, articulate
and unassuming; his leadership
qualities are unquestionable.

He had fully expected to pur-
sue his interests in student
government but soon
discovered that blacks at W&L
were treated like ants at a pic-
nic.

“I didn’t think I would be
wanted,” Stephen said, ‘If I
ran, I felt like it would be a
black student running, not just
a student. You feel set apart;
you wonder if you will be ac-
cepted.”

Consequently, Stephen has

 

 

(continued on page 5) |

New chief seeks
policy with frats

Phi Staff Writer

Lexington’s new chief of
police said Tuesday that he
wants to talk to student govern-
ment and fraternity leaders at
Washington and Lee University
to establish a clear understand-
ing between the police and
students.

Speaking at a press con-
ference in his second day on the
job, Lawrence O. Sutton, a 53-
year-old former lieutenant with
the Virginia Beach Police
Department, pledged better
communication between the
residents of Lexington and their

police.

“I would like to have a sit-
down session with students,
citizens and the police depart-
ment to reach a mutual ground
we can all live with,”’ he said.

To help improve public trust,

_Sutton promised greater ac-
cessibility, saying he would be
available ‘‘to any citizen at any
time.’’ “‘I will give 125, if not
150, percent to responding to the
‘needs of the department and the
citizens,”’ he said.

He also said he planned to
review the inner workings of the
police force, identify needs and
establish goals and objectives.
At this time, however, he does
not expect to make any signifi-
cant changes.

Describing himself as
naturally curious and a tough
disciplinarian, Sutton said he
would keep ‘‘an attitude of
observation” to prevent a pro-
blem in the future with thefts by
police officers.

“I do not anticipate any pro-
blem of that type,” he said. ‘‘I
doubt very seriously that
anything like that could happen
in my department.”

Last year 13 former and then-
current Lexington police of-
ficers were indicted in connec-
tion with a theft ring that had
been operating within the
department for at least 10
years.

Former chief James A. Kirby
resigned from his post in
January following an inquiry
conducted by L.M. ‘‘Bucky”
Walters, an outside investigator
hired by City Council to study
allegations linking Kirby to the
theft ring.

Although the findings of the
report were never made public,
Kirby was reassigned to a
newly-created post as police in-
spector. He is expected to
assume his new dutiessoon.

Sutton said he would have no
problem working with Kirby,
“tas long as he does his job in his
new capacity as inspector.’’ He
said he had no idea what the
Walters report contained but
that he planned to read it soon.

The new overlaps the old at Washington and Lee University
where Old George can be seen in the distance through the satellite
‘receiving antenna being installed on top of the University Library.
‘(Hinely photo for W&L)

 

Curriculum change passed over student apathy

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

The recent uproar over the
changes in curriculum re-
quirements has revived a
longstanding argument over the
decision-making process at the
university. Do students have a
voice in decisions which affect
their academic fate? Does the
faculty listen to student opinion
when it decides important
issues, like the curriculum revi-
sion? Would opening faculty
meetings to students aid in their
communication with professors
or hinder it?

The answers are not easy.
Study the recent curriculum
change proposal. In the fall of
1981, then-President Huntley
petitioned the faculty to study
the W&L curriculum re-
quirements and propose possi-
ble changes. A committee-of-
the-whole formed (faculty only)
and sent letters requesting sug-

gestions for possible changes to
all faculty and the student body
president for relay to the stu-
dent body.

Responses there were. Some
faculty decried the deficiencies
in foreign language, science
and math requirements; others
felt the requirements were too
stringent; some members of the
faculty did not respond.

The latter was also the case
with the student body. In the six
months of its existence, the
committee of faculty members
received no suggestions from
students on the matter which
would directly affect them, if
not future W&L students.

When the committee submit-
ted its proposal last spring for
faculty consideration, there
was a mild student response;
perhaps they did not know or
realize its implications. Return-
ing students in the fall cried un-
fair treatment. The EC — same
group which failed to suggest
any changes — boldy criticized

ine plan in a tersely-worded let-
ter to the faculty and University
Council. Then,.in its March

- meeting, the faculty voted —not

unanimously — to accept the
more stringent and demanding
curriculum changes.

Enter student opposition and
outcry. ‘‘Students have a right
to know what is being debated,”’
wrote Bruce Potter (Phi, April
26, 1983). ‘“‘Students have a right
to participate in the decision-
making process when the out-
come will affect their
academic...situation at the uni-
versity.” :

To what degree does this stu-
dent right extend? The Univer-
sity Council, some professors
argue, is designed for student
grievances against faculty
plans. Did the UC serve its call-
ing when it narrowly approved
(9-8) the curriculum change?
Did students outside of UC
members use the UC. to voice
complaints and opinions? No.

“If students are not in-
terested in attending University
Council meetings, why would
they want to come to faculty
meetings,’’ Dean Watt question-
ed recently, noting that the lat-
ter are lethargic and boring.

Some students say their right
to know mandates the opening
of faculty meetings to students
and press coverage. Many
faculty members shudder at
that thought.

“Opening faculty meetings
would only politicize the situa-
tion. What a teacher feels about
curriculum changes should not
affect a student’s view of his
teaching abilities,’’ Watt
remarked, adding he is sure a
communication barrier would
result.

But, as Potter wrote, couldn’t
the faculty adapt ‘‘secret’’ (or
surprise) measures without stu-
dent opinion ever being sought
or considered? Refer once more

to the curriculum changes.

“Calling the curriculum
changes ‘secret’? That is using
‘secret’ in a way never used
before in the English language.
There was no secret doing. We
(the Committee on Curriculum
changes) made the overture, in-
vited comments. I never receiv-
ed (student) response nor did I
hear of any student response. It
was no secret we _ were
meeting,’ said Dr. Coulling,
member of the now-dissolved
Committee.

“I believe there was suffi-
cient student involvement (on
the change proposal). We (the
faculty) should be informed and
have a broader perspective in
such matters. We ought not to
abdicate faculty responsibili-
ty,’’ Coulling noted, seemingly
contradicting himself. ‘Our
responsibility is to keep inform-

(continued on page 6)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1983

Opinion

 

Editorial

Doctor’s ethics
and the Law

By TED Le CLERQ
Phi Staff Writer

Murder charges have been
brought against two Los
Angeles doctors because they
removed a patients’ life support
systems. As reported in the
New York Times, doctors
Robert Nejdl and Neil Barber
disconnected first the
respirator and then the. in-
travenous food and water of
their patient Clarence Herbert.

Following a _ routine, ap-
parently successful abdominal
surgery performed by both Dr.
Nejdl and Dr. Barber, Herbert
stopped breathing in the
recovery room. He suffered
brain-damage, and entered a
coma. With family approval
five days later, doctors ordered
Herbert removed from all sup-
port. It took six days for him to
die.

When the murder charges
were brought by the L.A.
District Attorney’s office, it
caused an upheaval in the
medical community. Doctors
dared not remove patients from
life support. The District At-
torney’s decision focused atten-
tion on the right (perhaps
obligation) of physicians to
discontinue life support to a pa-
tient with apparent irreparable
and severe brain damage.

As Washington and Lee pro-
fessor and ethical specialist
Louis Hodges points out, ‘‘It is
important to distinguish be-
tween prolongation of life and
prolongation of dying.”’ Herbert
was a comatose, severely-brain
damaged patient that a
neurologist said had virtually
no chance of recovery. Current
laws recognize a doctor’s power
to withhold ‘‘heroic’’ measures
in a hopeless case. However,
the government still has a pro-
tecting role. Hodges agrees that
“the government should be in-
volved to limit causing death,
but not to preventing death
from happening.”’

What does this mean in the
Herbert case? Both Drs. Nejdl

and Barber concluded, with the
outside advice of a neurologist,
that Herbert’s condition was
virtually hopeless.

“Severe brain damage is not
much better than brain death,’’
Dr. Michael Cunningham, at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital,
said.

The decision to prosecute was
inappropriate. When the deci-
sion was made that Herbert’s
death was only being prolonged
by the doctors’ care, the issues
were then when would he die,
and how would he die.

After removal from the
respirator, Herbert still surviv-
ed. Yet, was his condition any
better? He was still virtually a
vegetable. The doctors then
reasoned that since their ac-
tions were only prolonging
death, they would remove the
intravenous food and water. To
the doctors, it was a question of
how Herbert would die rather
than if he would die.

This removal of food and
water is the district attorney’s
reason for prosecuting. Certain-
ly, without careful considera-
tion of the case’s cir-
cumstances, removal of food
and water would seem inap-
propriate. Yet, it is the proper
course here. Within the medical
community, it is the accepted
and correct next step if one is
only prolonging the patients
death. However, the D.A. is pro-
secuting this case without con-
sideration of moral and
philosophical questions about
terminal illness. In a difficult
ethical situation, it is narrow-
minded for the D.A. solely to
concentrate on the facts in
deciding whether to prosecute.

The controversy over the Ne-
jdl and Barber case arose
because of the implications in-
volved in altering the precedent
of when a patient may be allow-
ed to die. Doctors have the
responsibility of not prolonging
death. Nejdle and Barber acted
properly and in accordance
with their best medical judg-
ment.

 

To the editor:

On behalf of the Blue Ridge
Chapter of the National Multi-
ple Sclerosis Society, I would
like to thank the folks who con-
tributed in making the 5th an-
nual Interfraternity Council pie
eating contest, to benefit MS,
the biggest success ever: the
IFC, Emery Ellinger, Coach
Miller and his staff, Darlene
Hileman, Burr Datz and all the

 

MS thanks

student volunteers who can-
vassed the stands at half time.
The fraternities contributed
$350 while $77.36 was collected
in the stands, for a total of
$421.36. I am very appreciative
and proud of all the W&L
students who volunteered their
time and enrgies at half time of
the Syracuse lacrosse game in
supporting this worthy charity.
Thank you for a job well done.
Jerry Darrell

 

 

ORB UNATSAL FRETS SIMU ATE

 

In favor of the ‘squeal rule’

To the Editor:

In response to Mr. LeClerq’s
commentary of April 28, 1983:
The only reason Mr. LeClerg in-
dicates as to why he believes
the ‘‘Squeal Rule’’ to be unjust
is that it ‘‘attacks the privacy of
minors.’’ The question is not
whether the government is in-
vading the privacy of minors by
notifying their parents of their
receipt of contraceptives, but
why the government is in the
contraceptive business in the
first place. It is not the govern-
ment’s responsibility to prevent
births. Supplying contracep-
tives is a misuse of the tax-
payers’ money. Why should the

_American public pay because

some young people cannot con-
trol their sexual urges? The
point that Mr. LeClerq argues,
however, is whether or not
parents should be informed if
their children receive con-
traceptives. The key word here
is ‘‘children.’’ The government
is promoting the sexual activity
of people who are not mature
enough to handle the respon-
sibility. By not notifying the
parents, the government is
breaking up the backbone of
American society — the family.
The government should en-
courage the family to address
these matters in the home. If
this means “attacking the
privacy of minors,” then so be
it.

Concerning the ‘‘Baby Doe
Rule,”’ I must agree with Mr.
LeClerq that machines should
not be used to prolong life
regardless of prognosis. It
would seem as though Mr.
LeClerq is concerned with let-
ting natural course, as am I.
Mr. LeClerg, however, strays
from this principle when he
criticizes the proposed regula-
tion of posting a sign in
hospitals prohibiting the
withholding of food or ordinary
medical care. Withholding food
or ordinary medical care does

not allow a life to follow a
natural course, just as a
machine does not. Mr. LeClerq
seems more concerened with
the possibility of some
bureaucrats investigating an in-
cident in a_ hospital. If
bureaucrats in a hospital are
necessary in order for a han-
dicapped child to receive nor-
mal, proper and natural care,
then so be it.

I also agree with Mr. LeClerg
in that the government should
not have total control of these
medical matters. Guidelines,
however, are not total control.
The government has a respon-
sibility to protect the rights of
its citizens. These rights include
normal, proper and natural
medical care. These guidelines
may include ambiguous terms
such as ‘‘handicap’’ and
“customary care,’ but these
ambiguities are necessary
because every case is different.
Strict, clear cut definitions can-

not be applied to terms which
will affect human life. There
must be some leeway for re-
sponsible people to make deci-
sions.

Mr. LeClerq seems to believe
the medical profession to be
responsible and wise enough to
make decisions regarding the
“quality of life.” For this
reason, he criticizes the
possibility of the government
affecting such decisions. Can a
doctor make this judgment
simply because he understands
the workings of the human
body? I don’t believe his
superior knowledge makes him
more capable of judging the
‘‘quality of life.’”’ Because no
one is in the position to judge
the ‘‘quality of life,”’ the govern-
ment must be involved in order
to protect the rights of its
citizens. The ‘‘Baby Doe Rule”’
is such protection.

Patrick Hayden

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

I eee obs cass tossed oycses tic’
Assistant Sports Editor ................6
Managing Editor. ...............seeeee05
Head Photographer ................00055
Photographer ................. bcc ssan'
Entertainment Editor.................05
FODITITG iii sar iecc cree dcecveviccees

6663 0006 Fees bre bee esiEba bie Dave Stevens
o00bsbdee dbbUbace41 ie Eric Campbell
oe bee bees eke Uhew cece David W. Johnston
+b ipke eee aeua bee Mike Allen, John Harrison

Andrew Hoppes, Ted LeClercq,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, Win Sisson,
6 bb 0b sc trad tiie ani Tom O’Brien
\aaGes Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
Weep err reer ree Todd Barstow

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
ee

 

A letter to Wilson

Dear President Wilson,
Yesterday I read with great
interest the review in the Ring-
tum Phi of your recent talk
about your first impressions of
Washington and Lee. I was par-
ticularly interested in your
comments about the pro’s and
con’s of co-education. It seems
to me that two very important
considerations are seldom
directly addressed whenever
this issue is raised. The most
important consideration that
must be addressed is the effect
upon the academic environ-
ment that women would make.
This could be both advan-
tageous and deleterious. The
absence of women creates an

Review

U2’s third album is fine

By BRIAN J. OLIGER
Phi Staff Writer

“This is not a rebel song, but
it is a song of disgust.”

When U2 recently opened
their U.S. tour in support of
their third album, War, lead
vocalist Bono Vox introduced
the opening tune on the album,
“Sunday, Bloody Sunday” in
just this way. The song is
characteristic of most of the
album because its lyrics mix a
strong political statement with
a sensitive commentary on
human relationships: ‘“‘And the
battle’s just begun/There’s
many lost, but tell me who has
won?/The trenches dug within
our hearts,/And mother’s
children, brothers, sisters torn
apart/Sunday, bloody Sunday.”

This lyrical style is apparent
in many of the songs and is one
of the primary sources of power
and emotional impact of the
album. The impact is also
heightened by the conviction
with which the material is per-
formed (Vox’s vocals make
many of his contemporaries
sound like chalk on a black-
board) and the raw intensity of
the sound. The band hails from

environment free from the con-
stant distractions of inter-
sexual personal relationships.
(Personally, I have often found
it very convenient that dates
are not always around.) The
academic demands of Washing-
ton and Lee are rigorous and
women can provide a most dif-
ficult distraction. On the other
hand, the potential contribution
that women have to offer cannot
be ignored. By enrolling bright
young women Washington and
Lee would gain not only from
each woman’s _ individual
capability, but also from the
greater appeal of a co-ed
school. Presumably, more men
would compete for fewer open-

Ireland, which lends credibility
and purpose to the political and

emotional insights which per-

vade the album. Consequently,
the lyrics have a moving
forcefulness absent in the
mindless boy/girl scenario por-
trayed by many commercially
successful artists.

The band’s sound hinges both
on Vox’s vocals and on solid
guitar work by The Edge. It is a
hard rock approach with a hint
of new wave and relatively
strong heavy metal influences,
providing a solid but refreshing
sound.

The album continues with.
‘‘Seconds,’’ a song which
perhaps best reveals the theme
and sentiments which U2 is
seeking to convey: “It’s the
puppets, it’s the puppets who
pull the strings/It takes a se-
cond to say goodbye,/Push the
button, pull the plug, say good-
bye/Yes they’re doing the
atomic bomb,/They want you to
sing along,/Say goodbye, say
goodbye.”’

The single ‘‘New Year’s Day”’
exemplifies the thematic com-
plexities of War. Vox sings,
‘And so we are told this is the
golden age,/And gold is the

The

open Saturday, May 14th
from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.

Ston ia ‘on Supply Store and see what’s on
sale for you.

University Supply
Store and Snack Bar will be

ings (assuming that class size
remained constant) with the
result that Washington Lee
could enroll only the finest
students.

The second, more rarely men-
tioned consideration is the ef-
fect on the degree of freedom
that is granted to W&L
students. The parents of female
undergraduates have different
expectations of an institution
from those of parents of male
students. For example, all of
the surrounding girl’s schools
have an established set of
parietals and regulations for
male guests. At Washington and
Lee, regulations are determin-
ed democratically by each hall.

reason for the wars we
wage./Though I want to be with
you/To be with you night and
day,/Nothing changes on New
Year’s Day.”

Side two of War is not as
forceful as the first, with the ex-
ception of the last piece, ‘‘40.”’
This is essentially Vox singing
the fortieth Psalm with simple
but effective instrumental ac-
companiment. This cut extends
the Christian theme predomi-
nant on the band’s last album,
October. In ‘Sunday, Bloody
Sunday” this is also evident;
“The real battle just begun/To
claim the victory Jesus
won,/On a Sunday, bloody Sun-
day.”

Other outstanding cuts on the
album are ‘Like a Song...,”
“‘The Refugee,” and ‘‘Drowning
Man,” which is a deeply moving
song but lacks any strong
political statement, perhaps
because there simply isn’t room
for it beyond the emotional con-
tent of the piece. Judging by the
critical acclaim this project has
received elsewhere, it’s a pretty
safe predication that War will
be considered among the finest
LP’s of 1983.

liberties

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1983, Page 3

Pro’s & Con’s of coeducation

If women were to be enrolled
would they have parietals? Cer-
tainly in the interest of fairness
and non-discrimination men
would then be forced to live
under a set of university
established parietals. I believe
that the current system of
regulations in which the only
expectation of the university is
that of gentlemanly conduct is
the best. The freedom that the
university grants its students is
a compliment to and a vote of
confidence in the student body
and is, in my opinion, one of the
most distinctive features of this
institution.

I submit that dedication to the
two principles of the pursuit of
an optimum academic environ-
ment and insurance of student
should be the

 

guidelines by which these deci-
sions must be made. Wash-
ington and Lee is not just its
traditions nor its fraternities.
These are secondary to the in-
stitutional philosophy which in-
dicates a dedication to ‘the
development of man’s capacity
and desire to learn” and ‘a
climate of learning that
stresses the importance of the
individual (and) his personal
honor and integrity...’ Our
freedoms are testimony to. the
existence of such a climate. Let
us not then let our concern over
the efforts of our decisions on
particular issues prevent us
from making those decisions
most consistent to our declared
philosophy.
Respectfully submitted,
Jeffrey P. Blount ’85

 

 

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

RED BALL
JETS

May 17

It's The Place To Be”

 

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1983

 

 

‘John’ Read announces candidacy

Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read,
Commonwealth’s Attorney for
Rockbridge County and the City
of Lexington, announced
Wednesday that he will run for
re-election for a third term.
Read will be a candidate for the
Republican nomination.

Read stated, “I have ap-
preciated the opportunity of
serving as Commonwealth’s At-
torney for Rockbridge County
and the City of Lexington for the
last seven years. I hope that I
shall have the good fortune to be
re-elected and to continue serv-
ing our community. As Com-
monwealth’s Attorney, I have
prosecuted vigorously and fair-
ly all those who have been ac-

cused of violating the law. I am
deeply grateful for the privilege
of being your Commonwealth’s
Attorney. If re-elected I pro-
mise to do my job to the best of
my ability.”

A resident of Lexington,
Read, age 39, has been Com-
monwealth’s Attorney for
Rockbridge County and the City
of Lexington since Jan. 1, 1976.
Read was graduated from
Virginia Military Institute in
1965 as a Distinguished Military
Graduate. Read served three
years of active duty in the U.S.
Army. He was wounded in ac-
tion in Vietnam while serving as
an Infantry Company Com-
mander and was medically

retired from the Army as a Cap-
tain. His Army awards include
the Combat Infantryman’s
Badge, Airborne Paratrooper.
Ranger, Bronze Star, Purple
Heart and Air Medal.

Read was graduated from
Washington and Lee University
School of Law in 1971. While at
W&L Law School he was
selected for Omicron Delta
Kappa, the national leadership
service society, and Who’s
Who’s in American Universities
and Colleges. He was also
President of the Student Bar
Association, Captain of the Na-
tional Moot Court Team, which
won regina regional competi-
tion in which he was named best

oralist, and he was a Burks
Scholar Teaching Fellow during
his senior year.

After practicing in the
litigation-trial section of the

Richmond law firm of Hunton .

and Williams for three years,
Read returned to Lexington in
October-of 1974 to practice law.
Read is the son of Col. Bever-
ly M. Read of Lexington and the
late Jane Gibson Read and is
the grandson of the late Col. and
Mrs. H.M. ‘‘Son’’ Read of Lex-
ington. Read is married to the
former Betty Irons of Lexington

and they have. two children.’

Mrs. Read is the daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Robert P. Irons of
Lexington.

 

Beverly C. ‘‘John’’ Read

Wilson to be inaugurated next Thursday

The last time a man named
Wilson was inaugurated as
president of Washington and
Lee University, the inaugural
ceremony lasted three hours
and featured six different
speeches.

Rest assured that was at least
two hours longer and four
speakers more than will be the
case on May 19 when John D.
Wilson is formally installed as
the 2ist president of Wash-
ington and Lee.

In the 234-year history of
Washington and Lee, the
presidential inaugurals have

  

  
    

PL

Sat. & Sun. Mat.’s 2 p.m. &
Mon. night — All Seats $1.50
STATE THEATRE
ue xintrte va 463 3424

      
      
      

THE DOCTOR WIL
SEE YOU NOW!

DAN AYKROYD s
ae *"

iL LL!
463 3543

LYRIC
125 MAIN
LEXINGTON, VA

Ends Thurs. 7-9:15

An Officer and A
Gentleman (R)ie

NALA Te

  
  

run the gamut — from quite
brief to rather lengthy and from
simple informality to great
pomp and circumstance.

The inauguration of Gen.
Robert E. Lee as Washington
and Lee University’s eighth
president in 1865 was short and
simple, little more than an oath-
taking with witnesses.

By contrast the inauguration
in 1897 of W&L’s first President
Wilson — William Lyne Wilson
— was both the longest and the
most verbose in the university’s
history.

This month’s inauguration of
John D. Wilson will land
somewhere between those two
extremes, leaning far more
toward the simplicity of the Lee
ceremony but still incor-
porating a few elements that
were missing when the General
took office.

Wilson’s inauguration will be
held at 3 p.m. on the lawn in
front of Lee Chapel. James M.
Ballengee of Philadelphia, Pa.,
rector of the board of trustees,
will preside and will administer
the oath of office to Wilson.

Thomas A. Bartlett, chancellor
of the University of Alabama
System, will deliver the in-
augural address and Wilson will
give a response.

The public is invited to attend
the ceremony.

When Gen. Lee’s inaugura-
tion was being planned, several
of the trustees of what was then
Washington College planned an
elaborate proceeding to which
guests from all over the country
would be invited. Lee, however,
refused to go along with those
plans.

That episode in the universi-
ty’s history is chronicled in the
book ‘‘General Lee’s College”’
by the late Ollinger Crenshaw,
who wrote:

“It had been proposed to
stage President Lee’s inaugura-
tion at the College chapel, to ex-
tend invitations throughout the
nation, to provide a brass band,
and to have ‘young girls robed
in white, and bearing chaplets
of flowers, to sing songs of
welcome; to have congratu-
latory speeches, to make it a
grand holiday.’ But at the ex-

APARTMENTS FOR RENT

College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month
Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

 

 

CINEMA |} 261-2900 Buena Vista
STA
ERR.
TOM SELLECK RiDay

BESS ARMSTRONG

   

HIGH ROAD

To CHINA

(PG)

Shows Sun.-Thurs. 7:15 only
Fri, & Sat. 7:15 & 9:10
Mon. night all seats $1.50

 

press wish of Gen. Lee the exer-
crses were planned as the acme
of simplicity, ‘An exact and bar-
ren compliance with the re-
quired formula of taking the
oath by the new President, and
nothing more...’ ”’

The General had his way. On
Oct. 2, 1965, the college trustees,
faculty, students, clergymen of
Lexington, a magistrate, and
the county clerk gathered in a
recitation room. General Lee
signed the oath and was
presented the keys to the Col-
lege and that was that.

The inaugurations of Fred C.

Cole in 1960 and Robert E.R.
Huntley in 1968 were both in the
middle ground between the
simplicity of the Lees’ and the
pomp of William Wilson’s.

This month’s inauguration of
John D. Wilson will no doubt.
follow the recent pattern of a
happy medium between the ex-
tremes. There will not be six
speakers as was the case at
William Wilson’s inauguration.
But the ceremony will consist of
more than simply handing the
keys to the college to John
Wilson. Besides, he’s had a set
of keys since January.

Tilley wins essay contest

Each year the Cincinnati
Awards Committee confers the
Virginia Cincinnati Society
Award upon the author of ‘‘the
best essay in American military
history or some other subject in
colonial, revolutionary, or pre-
Civil War history of the U.S.
“This year’s winner of the com-
petition is Mr. B. Scott Tilley for
his paper, ‘‘‘...And God

Forgive Me for the Order’: The
Battle of New Market and the
Charge of the VMI Cadets.”’ Mr.
Tilley, who has been on the
Dean’s List and Honor Roll both
last year and this year, is a

sophomore from Richmond, Va.
He is currently serving as an in-
tern in Senator Trible’s
Washington office.

TUTE MME alm ole cas

Each Wednesday night 5:30

Garlic Bread you can eat for

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and ae

Oh

 

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

PHONE 463-7000

 

     
     
     
 

 

eS a a i a a i ae A al

 

 

Main Street Sandwich
& Cheese Shop

25 N. Old Main St.

Come in for delicious sandwiches
and a wide variety of cheeses.

 

 

 

 
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1983, Page 5

Blacks feel separated from mainstream

(continued from page 1)
never become involved in stu-
dent activities.

‘‘W&L makes you really con-
scious that you are black; you
feel others saying, ‘He is black
first.’ But I’m a W&L man, no

different from any other.”

All W&L_ students feel
pressures; academic, social
and otherwise.

But add to those pressures
feelings of being rejected,
isolated and unwanted; it can
sap your confidence until you
begin to doubt yourself.

‘“*You’re looking at people
who were accepted at Cornell,
Princeton. We are not inferior
people, but we are treated as
such,’’ said Ron Magee, a junior
from Dallas, Texas. ‘‘Minority
students come here and start
doubting their own abilities for
the first 12-18 weeks. You have
to be extremely confident. You
can’t excel in a hostile environ-
ment.’’

Most black students agree
that they feel separated from
the majority on campus, a
separation caused at times by
racist tendencies on the part of
the white community, both
direct and indirect, and at times
by a misunderstanding and an
inability to deal effectively with
blacks.

RACIAL TENSIONS

Although many of W&L’s
blacks attended mostly white
high schools, they were surpris-
ed by the attitudes they en-
countered here.

It is a very subtle form of pre-
judice, one that is hard to put
your finger on, but very easy to
sense. ‘Racism exists at all
levels, but it’s low-key,” said
Terry McWhorter, a sophomore
from Cleveland, Ohio. ‘‘But it
can still be as powerful and
vivid. It’s definitely there.”’

“Just read any bathroom
wall,” added Wesley Payne a
sophomore from Baltimore,
Md.

Stephen said he felt racial
tensions immediately when no
one would speak to him during
freshman orientation at
Natural Bridge.

And the problem is pervasive.

“In a classroom when you
speak, the guys look at you like,
‘He can speak?’”’ said Ira
Puryear, a junior from Newark,
N.J.

Even professors, perhaps un-
wittingly, add to the pressures.
‘Blacks tend to be compared to
each other in class. You hear
the professor asking, ‘Why
can’t you do as well as other
blacks?’ ’’ Puryear said.

‘‘We don’t feel we are receiv-
ed well enough (by the faculty).
We don’t have the student-
professor relationship that
W&L prides itself on,’’ Magee
said.

In social life, no black is a
fraternity member and general-
ly does not feel welcome at par-
ties. “You get the feeling that

you’re not wanted even as a
visitor,” said Bryan Johnson, a
sophomore from Jersey City,
N.J.

Furthermore there are no
blacks on any of the major cam-
pus organizations: the Ex-
ecutive Committee, the Student
Activities Board, Contact or the
Ring-tum Phi.

Once again, blacks students
perceive that they are not
wanted and so do not even try to
join.

Being a part of such a small
and conspicuous minority, the
black student needs a big slice
of confidence to break the color

barrier. But he wants some en-

couragement.
“*You feel like an outcast. You

hollered, ‘‘Niggers go home,”
as a black student and his
mother were loading their car
to go home.

Then there are what the
blacks call ‘“‘Good Ole Dixie’
parties where fraternities hold
mock lynchings and wear black
face.

But always it is a behind-the-
back sort of racism. “‘It’s very
subtle,’’ said Magee. “But at
times the subtleness is easily
seen.”’

‘‘How does the joke go?’’ ask-
ed Puryear. ‘“‘ ‘When is a nigger
a nigger? When he leaves the
room.’ ”’

MISUNDERSTANDING

Another part of the problem is

a lack of understanding bet-

The black community at W&L
is not large enough, strong
enough or unified enough to
force recognition. The tenden-
cy, therefore has been to
tolerate rather than accept
their presence on campus.

“Whites don’t have to unders-
tand us,” Johnson said. ‘‘But we
have to adjust to them.”’

As a result black students
have to prove continually that
they belong at W&L.

“In order to be respected, you
have to be an overachiever; you
have to accomplish so much
more than the average stu-
dent,’’ Magee said. ‘‘It makes
guys here more tense toward
their relationships with the ma-
jority, and it drives some guys

‘W&L makes you really conscious that

you are black... But ’m a W&L man,
no different from any other’

 

feel like you’re not wanted. The
depressing part is trying to suc-
ceed. The hardships, the
troubles...You don’t need that
problem. At the same time,
white students are not urging us
to get involved at all,” said
McWhorter. ‘‘Nobody’s  stop-
ping the blacks from getting in-
volved; but it’s going to have to
be an individual effort.’
McWhorter said he gave
thought to the SAB and the EC
but lacked the confidence to try.

Feelings of isolation and
alienation are reinforced when
the racism takes a more direct
form.

Most of the blacks at W&L
have been yelled at from pass-
ing cars and dorm windows.
Magee recalled one incident in
which someone in the dorm

ipeceeaeececereeee eee RRR
: ATTENTION

PSEUDO-INTELLECTUALS:

ween the white and black com-
munities.

For one reason or another,
many whites carry a false im-
age of blacks to W&L. “A lot of
white students who are not used
to blacks bring stereotypes with
them,” Stephen said. “They
don’t realize that blacks have
the same interests and aspira-
tions. Once they realize it, they
will understand better.”’

Stephen recalled being shock-
ed in a sociology class one day
when a white student remarked
that the problem with blacks is
that they don’t have fathers

around the house.

Beczuse white students do not
understand their black counter-
parts, it is often easier to ignore
them than to deal with them in
any meaningful way.

 

Excelsior.

 

Laer x AAA

Articles are needed for
the upcoming issue of

The deadline is today,
May 13th, but we'll give
you the WEEKEND.

Submit articles at cir-
culation desk in library.
Questions: Call Chris

Bouquet at 463-9524. s

 

out.”

In Magee’s freshman class in
1980, a record 15 blacks entered
W&L, a group of black students
ranging from National Merit
Scholars to class valedic-
torians. Now eight of them are
left.

“The attrition rate is due to
not being able to handle the in-
tricate pressures of W&L,”’ he
said. ;

COMMUNICATION

The black students agree that

the first step to better relations

WELCOME ALUMNI

$8.50
$2.19
$7.75

ALUMNI WELCOME ALUMNI WELCOME ALUMNI

WELCOME ALUMNI

Canada Dry Mixers
Old Mil Suitcases

HEAT-N-EAT
$2 99 Banquet Fried Chicken

RED FRONT GROCERY

309 N. Main St.

between the races is com- —

munication and interaction. At
the very least, blacks and
whites can begin to understand
one another.

“It’s the most you can ask
for,’’ Puryear said. ‘“You can’t
make people change their at-
titudes, but communication can
help.”’

To accomplish that, blacks
and whites need to work
together in campus organiza-
tions they say. ‘‘We need to
have a common ground, a place
to meet, events, etc.,’’ Stephen
said.

“I haven’t seen any function
where blacks and whites have
come together,” McWhorter
said. ‘It would be an advantage
to the entire student body to do
something like that.”’

The white students have their
Fancy Dress Ball while the
blacks hold their own black tie
affair in the annual Student
Association for Black Unity
(SABU) Ball.

This year, SABU sent letters
to every fraternity, every law
student’s carrel and every
freshman in an attempt to make
it a school-wide function. About
600 people came; seven of them
were white.

“There is not enough inter-
change between blacks and
whites,”’ said John White, direc-
tor of minority affairs at W&L.
“The potential exists for a
meaningful coalition; but I
think it’s a lot easier not to do
that. We are comforable in the
small groups we get into and
that works both ways...It’s go-
ing to take some pretty brave
students to bridge that gap.”’

WELCOME

12 28-02.

Busch
6 12-0z. Cans

24 12-0z. Cans

INWN TV AWOOTSM INWN1V

INWNTV AWOD TSM

WELCOME

 

 

a
 

Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1983

 

 

Cramming causes negative feelings, inefficiency

College students who attempt

to cram a semester’s worth of
study into a frantic all-nighter
in order to prepare for an exam
are liable to wind up disliking
the subject they are studying.
‘ That, at least, represents part
of the findings of a series of ex-
periments conducted recently
by a Washington and Lee
University psychology _ pro-
fessor and two former W&L
students.

David G. Elmes, professor of
psychology at W&L, directed
the experiments with Craig J.

Dye, a 1982 graduate from
Buchanan, Va., and N. Jeffrey

   

Donation of the money of an
evening meal will highlight
observance of World Hunger
Week at W&L, running May
16-20. Interested students may
forego eating the Tuesday even-
ing Dining Hall meal and
donate the equivalent food cost
to World Hunger. Fraternity
members can also donate the

Mr. Delaray van Tonder,
senior information officer for
the South African Embassy and
third secretary in Washington,
will speak on May 16 at 7:30
p.m. in duPont Auditorium. van
Tonder, a graduate of the
University of Pretoria, will ad-
dress the topic of ‘South

 

snniniies

Ada 1504928

 

Notes
World Hunger observed

OrA@ © L g .

Russell Stover Candies
Cosmetics: Chanel No.5
Shalimar

Royal London Gentleman Gifts

Herdelin, a 1981 graduate from
Haddonfield, N.J. Their fin-
dings are reported in an article
entitled “What is the role of af-
fect in the spacing effect?”
which appears in a recent issue
of ‘Memory & Cognition.”

The article reports on a series
of experiments that explored
the negative affective feelings
that accompany certain types

of memorization tasks.
In their experiments, the
W&L team used laboratory pro-

cedures to mimic ‘‘cramming”’
and found that the student
memorizers in the tests had

both poorer retention and more

costs of one evening meal at
their fraternity houses. Addi-
tionally, students and faculty
can give money toward World
Hunger in containers around
campus and in fraternity
houses. The Inter-Varsity
Christian Fellowship, sponsors
of the week-long observance,
plan to give all proceeds to a
world-hunger organization.

South African to speak

Africa: Challenges of the 80’s,”
including South African inter-
nal policies like apartheid,
foreign policy, and the political
destabilization factor in Africa.
The talk, sponsored by the In-
ternational Club, is open to the
public free of charge.

The Student Recruitment Chairman and Co-Chairman would like
to announce that interviews for new members of the committee are
being held May 17th and 18th. We would like those interested to sign

up in the Admissions Office before May 16.

PHONE (703) 463-2323

 

Kodac and Colorcraft Film

 

 

 

 

 

COORS
Long-Neck -Neck

   

a ct et ee ee _

 

        

BUD
12-Pack

$4.95

a a i a

a la

 

 

negative feelings toward the
material than in more efficient
memorization strategies.

‘‘Most of the people in our ex-
periments found the cramming
situation, in which they were
bombarded with words to
remember at short intervals,
was very distasteful. Moreover,

they also found the material
they were cramming was
distasteful,’’ explains Elmes.
“It is generally accepted that
retention is not nearly as good
in a cramming situation as it is
when the material is spaced
more widely over time. What
may also happen is that in addi-

tion to lack of long-term reten-
tion from such cramming ses-
sions, students may wind up
disliking the material they are
attempting to learn.”’

On the other hand, Elmes and
his colleagues have found that
there are some situations under
which effective memorization
can result from cramming.

‘When the subjects are put
under stress, relating to time or
some other pressure, our data
show that the cramming
method can be somewhat effec-
tive,” said Elmes. ‘‘But it is still
never as effective as dis-
tributing the learning over
time.”

Faculty meetings

(continued from page 1)

ed by colleagues, journals, and
other institutions (on matters
pertaining to current trends in
education). How can a student
know which is better, the bi-
semester or the tri-semester?
The faculty has experience in
these matters.”

While he reserves few
positive words for students and
their self-proclaimed right to
participate in certain decisions,
Coulling is quick to point out
that students who believe the
faculty moves with any great
speed (and thus lack of con-
sideration of student opinions)
are mistaken. He noted the
year’s space between his com-
mittee’s proposal and its subse-
quent adoption.

“The faculty moves with a
good deal of slowness and
deliberateness. There are facul-
ty who express the same objec-
tions as do students. Some

faculty members closely mirror
student views,’’ continued
Coulling. ‘‘The faculty does not
want to alienate students and
seeks no confrontation with
students. But there is a lack of
continuity in the student body
versus the faculty (to warrant
change in the present decision-
making structure).”’

Dean Lewis John agrees with
Coulling on this point.

‘“‘Anyone who thinks the facul-
ty has any degree of unanimity
underestimates the faculty,”
John stated.

What is the value of a student
opinion? At a school the size of
W&L, students have far greater
opportunities to talk with pro-
fessors and _ give opinions.
Presumably, this close relation-
ship allows for greater faculty
awareness of student concerns,
or at least should allow for
greater awareness.

The researchers’ advice to
students confronted with too
much to learn in too short a
time span?

“If you’ve got to cram, then
go ahead and cram,’ said
Elmes. “It may work in the
short run, but over the long
term the retention will not be as
good and your feelings for the
subject matter may be quite
negative.”

The participation of Dye and
Herdelin in Elmes’ ongoing
research on human memory
was supported at Washington
and Lee by Robert E. Lee
Research Grants.

The curriculum situation
stands as an example of student
failure to contribute to a faculty
decision despite an invitation to
do so. Using this case as war-
ranting opening faculty
meetings for airing student
opinions is fighting the wrong
foe. Student apathy cannot heal
itself by opening faculty
meetings. Opening the final
forum of debate will attract no
new interest, no new revela-
tions, no greater control of deci-
sions.

Just as the Board of Trustees
has entrusted to the Executive
Committee (to the students)
certain responsibilities (name-
ly, the honor system), so the
Board, and the administration,
expects certain standards from
the faculty, standards which
are best upheld by open and
uninhibited debate among peers
in a faculty meeting. Without
students or the press present.

Welcome Alumni!
Dinner Served from 6:00-9:00
Thurs. Happy Hour & Jam Session

Fri. Halls of Grass
Sat. Charisma

463-9331
30 N. Main Street

 
 

 

Baseball

Murdock pleased

despite record

By ANDY HOPPES
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and _ Lee’s
baseball team ended its season
with a tie against Newport
News Apprentice and a
doubleheader split against
Christopher Newport College to
finish with a 9-14-2 record.

“Overall we’ve made some
positive strides,’ W&L Coach
Jim Murdock said regarding
this year’s team. Murdock cited
an increased batting average,
better pitching performances,
improved defense and a much
improved team attitude as
positive aspects of the team’s
performance. :

Last Wednesday at Newport
News the Generals fought to a
10-10 tie before the game was
called by the umpires in the
eighth inning.

Freshman Hugh Finkelstein
led the Generals attack with

three hits. Senior Chris
Cavalline had two hits and
junior Kevin Golden had two
hits and three runs-batted-in.

In the first game of the
doubleheader against Chris-
topher Newport Saturday the
Generals exploded for 12 hits to
defeat the Captains 14-0.

Freshman pitcher Kirk Breen
yielded only three hits and one
walk while pitching a complete
game. The win upped Breen’s
record to 3-2 on the season.

In the second game
Christopher Newport scored
seven unearned runs in the fifth
inning to defeat the Generals
10-6.

Sophomore pitcher Billy
White took the loss for the
Generals to drop his record to
5-2 for the season.

Cavalline ended his W&L
career by ripping seven hits in

ports

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1983, Page 7

 

Freshman Kirk Breen challenges another Christopher Newport batter in the first § game of a double-
header last Saturday. Breen hurled a three-hitter while going the distance in the Generals 14-0 shellack-
ing of the Captains. (Phi photo by Ken Ries)

‘eight trips to the plate .in the

doubleheader. Cavalline knock-
ed in three runs in the double-
header.

Junior Dave Warrenfeltz col-
lected four hits in the

English gets NCAA bid

Frank English, a Washington
and Lee University senior from
Philadelphia, Pa., has received
an at-large berth in the NCAA
Division III Golf Champion-
ships. The four-day, 72-hole
tournament will take place
Tuesday through Friday, May
17-20 at the College of Wooster
near Akron, Ohio.

English will join 119 players
at the event, to be held on the
6400-yard, par-72 Wooster Coun-
try Club course, site of the 1978
Division III tournament.

He is the third W&L player to
receive the at-large berth in the
Championships’ nine-year
history. Jerry Maatman of
Wilmette, Ill. competed in 1978,
placing third and firing the
event’s low round, a 69. Gerry
Barousse of New Orleans, La.,
participated in 1979, finishing
48th ina field of 120 golfers.

W&L has twice sent a entire
team: 1977, when the Generals
placed seventh, and 1979 when
they finished 11th.

English, a Spanish major who
earned his first varsity golf let-
ter this spring, posted the
team’s low average, a 78 on 624
strokes in eight rounds of play.
At the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championships on
April 25-26 he carded a 155 score
(on rounds of 80 and then 75)
good for fifth place and an All-
Conference citation. His
season’s low round was a 73 on
March 23 at the par-71 Lex-
ington Country Club.

W&L compiled a 60 dual
match record this spring — the
team’s third straight perfect
mark — and won the conference
title, its third in the league’s
seven-year history.

Frank is the son of Mr. and
Mrs. Frank English III. He is a
1979 graduate of Springfield
High School in Philadelphia.

 

Senior Frank English chips to within inches of the cup to salvage
par in the ODAC tournament; his consistent play throughout the
year has earned him a spot in the NCAA Division III Champion-
ships to be held next week in Akron, Ohio. (Phi photo by Ken Ries)

ALOHA WOK

409 South Main St., Lexington, Virginia

 

Chinese, Polynesian, and

American Cuisine
Exotic Cocktails

 

 

Reservations Please!
463-9342 _

 

 

*Carry-out Availabie”’

Open Tuesday through Sunday

Luncheon 11:30-2:30
Dinner 5-10

Sun. Buffet 12-2:30—$4.25
463-9342
ne

doubleheader and Golden added

another three hits to the=

Generals’ offense.

“In the last five games we
batted .342,” Murdock said.
‘‘We left alot of runners on base.
We had the opportunity to win
every game,” he said.

“It would have been nice to
finish at .500 but I’m not totally
disappointed,’ Murdock said.

Outfielder Chris Cavalline
was named first team All-Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.
Cavalline batted .407 this year
and led the Generals in hits,
runs scored and RBIs.

Senior shortstop Jody Harris,
senior outfielder Jim Daly and
pitcher Billy White were named
second team All-ODAC.

Daly batted .297 and Harris
hit .256 and led the Generals
with 15 stolen bases.

Hugh Finkelstein and Kevin
Golden also had good years of-
fensively for W&L. Finkelstein
batted .426 despite injury pro-
blems, and Golden batted .337
and drove in 22 runs.

White led W&L with 3.86 earn-
ed run average and a 5-2 record.

White also had the Generals’
lowest earned run average in
his freshman year.

Senior Jim Stanley compiled
a 5.93 earned run average and a
1-2 record, and Kirk Breen was
3-2 with a 6.75 ERA.

Harris, Cavalline, Daly,
Stanley, pitcher Marty Thomas
and pitcher Pat Jordan will be
lost to graduation.

‘They really helped us a lot,”
Murdock said of the seniors.
“They helped to develop team
spirit and team morale,” Mur-
dock stated.

Murdock said that six
starters from this year’s team
and the team’s two best pit-
chers would be returning next
year though.

“We should be in good
shape,” Murdock said regar-
ding next year’s team. “The in-
coming recruits look good. We
should have five or six pitchers
coming in,’’ stated Murdock.

Murdock also said that he ex-
pected this year’s freshman
class to make some important
contributions next year.

 

 

 

 

116 N. Main
Across from Stop-in

Your wine
and cheese
headquarters
for Lexington

 

Across from
Stop-in

 

 

 

463-3683

 

 
ERO Ree

 

\

|

Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1983

 

Senior Steve Denny with junior Craig Cannon wait to return serve
in a match at W&L. The two are participating in both singles and
doubles at the Division III Tennis Championships. The tournament
is being held at the State University of New York in Albany. (Phi

photo by Ken Ries)

Lax team shoots

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee

| lacrosse team, trying to put

' together three consecutive wins

for the first time this year, will
\y\end its season Saturday after-

iI noon at the University of
i “Baltimore. Game time at Speer

\f
\'

| }

‘ A victory by the Generals, 5-6,

\ Field is 2 p.m.
would give the program its thir-

\ teenth straight season without a

" losing record. For Baltimore,

4-6, the game will mark more
than just the end of the season.
The university will drop its in-
tercollegiate athletic program
at the close of the academic

year.

“That (being the last game) ~
should be their biggest plus, if
you can call it that,”’ said W&L
coach Jack Emmer of Balti-
more. “It should give them a
psychological edge.”’

A 13-7 defeat. of Hampden-
Sydney on Wilson Field Satur-
day gave W&L a chance to
salvage a .500 record. The
Generals were able to dominate
the Tigers mainly by containing
Hampden-Sydney’s top scorer,
Rob Bonaventura. By the time
Bonaventura, who had 11 goals
earlier this season against
William and Mary, scored the
first of his three goals, W&L
already had a comfortable 10-2

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity tennis standouts Craig Can-
non and Steve Denny have
received bids to compete at the
ninth annual NCAA Division III
Championships. Play began
yesterday and will continue
through Sunday at the State
University of New York in
Albany.

Cannon, a junior from Ocala,
Fla., and Denny, a senior from
Bethesda, Md., will play in the
64-entry singles’ bracket and in
the 32-team doubles’ competi-
tion. It will be their first NCAA
appearance.

The pair posted a 13-10
doubles’ mark this spring and
won the flight-one title in the

- Qld Dominion Athletic Con-

ference Championships on April
30. Denny compiled a 14-10
singles record which featured
the flight-two crown at the con-
ference event while Cannon
finished 8-16 and third in flight-
one singles at the ODAC tourna-
ment.

W&L posted a 7-14 dual match
mark this spring and won the

for .500

4» lead early in the third quarter.

Said Emmer, ‘‘We lost our in-
tensity and they kept playing
pretty hard.”” Hampden-Sydney
outscored the Generals 6-4 in
the last two quarters.

Will McNeely gave H-S its on-
ly lead, 1-0, but sophomore Rod
Santomassimo responded
quickly with his first two goals
of the seasons to start the
Generals on a 10-0 roll.

The first of Mark Knobloch’s
two goals made it 3-1 at the end
of the first quarter. Sandy
Brown and Stu Kiehne had two
goals each in the second quarter
as W&L outscored the Tigers
6-0. Kiehne’s bouncer from 13
yards made it 9-1 at the half.

ODAC title, its fifth conference
crown in the league’s seven-
year history.

Their participation will mark
the seventh time W&L has been
represented at the Champion-
ships.

The Generals’ NCAA ledger
includes a tie for second place
in 1977 when Ben Johns and
Stewart Jackson won the
doubles competition, second
place in 1978 when Johns and
Jackson finished second in
doubles, fourth in 1979, a tie for
fourth in 1980, and sixth place in
1981 when Jackson and Pete
Gaker were runners-up in
doubles play.

The NCAA Championships
schedule calls for the first two
rounds of singles’ play and the
first round of doubles’ competi-
tion on Thursday, followed by
two rounds in each bracket on
Friday. Semifinals will be held
Saturday’ finals of Sunday.

Cannon, a geology major, is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. Hugh
Cannon of Ocala, FI. He is a 1980
graduate of Ocala Forest High
School.

Denny, an East Asian Studies
major who spent his junior year
studying in Japan, is the son of
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Denny. He
is a 1979 graduate of Bethes-
da/Chevy Chase High School.

 

Time Out....

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

.... You know it’s getting pret-
ty bad when you pick up the
sports page and see that half the
stories deal with this athlete
suspected of alcohol and/or
drug abuse, this other guy who

can’t pitch because he claims -

he’s got an alcohol problem,
and this league’s investigation
into its alleged drug and alcohol

problems. There have been co- °

caine problems in the NBA and
the NFL. There have been high-
lighted individual cases of drug
and alcohol abuse (see Allen,
Neil; Thompson, David; and
Porter; Darrell). And we’ve
had federal investigations of
various athletes involved in
dealings (see Gerulaitis, Vitas).
It all causes me to wonder why
we have a sports page at all. We
can put the scores in a little box
underneath the weather and put
the really important drug bust
stories on the front page.
Whatever happened to the
athlete who had a little concern
for his public image, other than

how many digits there are in his

= on selected shirts and gifts

Chip Lacrosse
Pile Jacket
Trainer Jacket
R.P. Jacket

$13.69
28.89
19.99
11.29

Sizes are limited! !

6.85
19.25
11.90

6.95

 

salary? But wait, Mike, how
about all the stress they’re
under? Almost as much stress
as the unemployed husband and
father of three, right? Sure.
What’s next? Team drug
counselors? It’s getting so that
rehabilitation .doesn’t have
anything to do with knee in-
juries anymore. The athlete has
such an important role and it
seems that some of today’s
athletes don’t recognize their
responsibility to present a
reputable character. Unfor-
tunately, it’s the bad examples
who get noticed. It’s a shame
we never here of those good ex-

’ amples. But then again, maybe

there aren’t any....

....The World Cup controver-
sy is starting to sound a little
curious. Both the U.S. and
Canada, who have never been
host to the world soccer cham-
pionships, will apparently be
denied in their applications for
host site in favor of 1970 host
site Mexico. It’s sad because
the popularity of soccer was
beginning to grow here and it
would seem the people in
charge of choosing the 1986 site
(the executive committee of
FIFA) would do something to
promote the sport. But then I
guess politics is as much a part
of the game as the athletes
are....

....1 had to get some doctor
from Stonewall Jackson to
revive our friend, the Jersey
prophet, when Sunny’s Halo
came in on Saturday afternoon.
Plaudits are deserved for our
own member of the Royal
Family, but I guess the dart
board’s got to be right some
time. Oh, by the way two weeks
ago he said, ‘‘Watch Chicago.”’
Last week it was, ‘‘Watch Ed-
monton.’’ Now says the Prince,
“This week I’ll be watching
‘Hogan’s Heroes.’ I’ve had
enough.’’ Words to live by, if
there ever were....

.... Think about this during the
weekend: From Sunday May 1
to Sunday May 8, John
McEnroe made $250,000. During
that time he only ‘‘worked”’
about ten hours....
ee CRE RONTY Lu
WASHINGT Je UJ MIVEIRRGITY NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

TA IO

Ring-tum Phi»

NUMBER 29 Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia, May 20, 1983

 

 

 

 

 

 

VOLUME 82

 

Wilson inaugurated

  

President Wilson addresses the audience during the inaugural
ceremony. (Phi photo by Chainsaw)

 

By MIKE ALLEN
Phi Staff Writer

“J do solemnly swear that I
will faithfully discharge the
duties of the office to which I
have been appointed by the
Board of Trustees of Washing-
ton and Lee University to the
best of my skill and judgement
without fear or favor. So help
me God.”

The twenty seconds it took
John Delane Wilson to repeat
those words yesterday after-
noon marked an_ historical
event which was occurring for
the twenty-first time in over two
centuries-Washington and Lee
had a new president.

The eighth successor to
General Robert E. Lee, Wilson
was inaugurated at a ceremony
witnessed by 1200. Wilson, 51,
came to W&L from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute, where he.
served as provost.

He succeeds Robert E.R.
Huntley, who served as the
University. president beginning
in 1968. Huntley is now a
member of the W&L Law
School.

Wilson officially assumed his
duties on January 17, but was
not ceremonially installed until
yesterday. The inauguration
date was chosen to coincide
with the spring meeting of the
Board of Trustees.

In January, Wilson signed his
name to the oath in a journal
that dates back to 1897. It was
first signed by President
William Lynne Wilson. That
President Wilson’s inaugural
ceremony lasted three hours
and featured six speeches. The
ceremony yesterday was con-
siderably more brief — it in-
cluded two speeches and lasted,
as planned, for almost exactly
one hour.

The inauguration of President
Huntley fifteen years ago was
forced inside because of rain.
The same was destined to be the
case for his successor.

University Marshall C. West-
brook Barritt, who was in
charge of all the planning for
the event, had foreseen that
possibility. Two weeks ago, he
told a reporter:

“The weather is going to be

our final problem... If we have

City Council covers questionable

By WILLIAM ROBERTS
Editor-in Chief

Lexington’s Mayor and City
Council are refusing to allow
public scrutiny of a consultant’s
report which explores indica-
tions that former Police Chief
James A. Kirby condoned the
operation of a Lexington police
theft ring.

On April 20, a Freedom of In-
‘formation Act request by the
Ring-tum Phi was delivered to
City Manager John V. Doane.
The FOI letter requested one
copy of the report submitted to
Council on Dec. 8, 1982 by

special investigator L.M.
Walters.
Walters was hired by Council

in September to conduct an in-
vestigation into the office of the
Chief of Police after charges
surfaced last spring during the
Virginia State Police investiga-
tion of the local police theft
ring. Thirteen former and then
current police officers were in-
dicted in May 1982. Seven were
convicted of involvement in the
theft ring.

“As you may know the Va.
FOI Act provides that if por-
tions of a document are exempt
from release, the remainder
must be segregated and disclos-
ed,’’ the Phi’s FOI request said.
“There should be no excisions
of Mr. Walters’ statements of

fact relevant to the question of
whether Mr. Kirby should be re-
tained as a Lexington law en-
forcement officer.’’

Mayor Charles F. Phillips Jr.
responded to the Phi’s FOI re-
quest by letter dated April 22.

Phillips cited six exemptions of ©

the Act in declining the request.
“The Walters report deals
with the personnel of the Police
Department, including evalua-

tion of the office of the Chief of

‘Lots of times you could

spector. Phillips made a public
statement at the time, in which
he briefly characterized the
Walters report.

“Upon the conclusion of the
cases brought by the Com-
monwealth’s Attorney, City
Council felt an obligation to
Chief James A. Kirby and to the
citizens to undertake a com-
prehensive study of the Chief of
Police,” Phillips said.

‘‘Council wishes to emphasize

 

tell Kirby and later he
would say you didn’t

tell him.’

Police, and comments and re-
ports on interviews with private
citizens in personal matters not
related to public business. It is
the opinion of the Mayor and Ci-
ty Council that the report is not
subject to public disclosure,”
Phillips said in the reply letter.
On Jan. 6, Council accepted
Kirby’s resignation as Chief of
Police and named him to his
current position of special in-

that it has never questioned
James A. Kirby’s loyalty to the
Department and the City, or his
personal honesty and integrity.
Our consultant’s’ report sup-
ported our position when it was
concluded: “In the course of in-
quiries conducted, no one has
suggested that Chief Kirby was
other than personally honest,”’
Phillips said.

“However, the consultant’s

Report did contirm our concern
about the lack of vigorous ad-
ministration of the Police
Department.”’

Council immediately began
proceedings to hire a new police
chief. The department was lead
by Sgt. Bruce M. Beard as act-
ing chief and Kirby remained
on administrative leave with
pay until the new Police Chief,
Lawrence O. Sutton, took office
on May 9. Kirby now works full
time as the department’s
special inspector, second in
authority only to Chief Sutton.

Chief Sutton told the Phi last
week that he has not read the
Walters report but that he plan-
ned to read it soon. This week,
Sutton told the Phi that he has
not yet read the Walters report.

“The powers that be were
satisfied with the Walters
report and as far as I’m con-
cerned it is a dead issue...the
past is the past. I can only deal
with the here and now. I have no
responsibility for the past and I
don’t believe in witch hunts,”
Sutton said.

Walters’ investigation of Kir-
by resulted from public allega-
tions made during the summer
trials of indicted police officers
and from testimony given to
State Police investigators in
March and April 1982. State
Police Special Agents Tex
Chapman and Louis Layne rais-
ed questions of whether Kirby

inclement weather, we’ll move
into Warner Center, and that’ll
be difficult, but that’s what
we’ll have to do for the whole
works....

“T hate to think of it, so I’m
sort of putting it out of my mind
psychologically.’’ All of the in-
augural proceedings were sche-
duled to take place in front of
Lee Chapel, a National Historic
Landmark constructed under
President Lee’s supervision.

In spite of recent favorable
weather, Thursday promised to
be wet in Lexington. The glitzy
weather maps on the network
news shows ordained thunder-
storms for the region, and the
morning paper, as if to curse
the festivities, had jeered,
‘‘thundershowers likely today.”’
For once, the weather wizards
were right.

It began to rain at about ten
o’clock, but with the inaugura-
tion five hours away, the plan-
ners did not give up easily.
Sheltering himself under an
umbrella, a university official
said, ““We’re going to have it
outside until the last possible

(continued on page 6)

record

knew about the thefts in his
department.

Former State Trooper and
convicted conspirator Marvin
Hamilton served on the Lex-
ington police force from 1977 to
1981. During interrogation by
State Police on March 19, 1982,
Hamilton was asked, “Did you,
yourself ever bring anything to
the Chief’s attention?”’

“I remember bringing a lot, a
lot of stuff to his attention, but
specifics I don’t remember.
Every time you’d get the same
answer, You gotta have proof,
or something to that effect,”
Hamilton said.

Later in the questioning,
Hamilton was asked if ‘the
Chief was told by Colbert and
Coleman about the activities of
Purvis and Flint?”’

“Yes sir,’’ Hamilton said.

‘‘Now Marvin, you state that
you were going to work one eve-
ning on the four o’clock shift
and as you went in Colbert and
Coleman were coming out of the
Chief’s office,’ Layne said.

“They were either coming out
or were sitting in there, he had,
had a glass door and you could
see who was in there more or
less,’ Hamilton said.

“Do you know what their pur-
pose was for being in the Chief’s
office?’’ Layne asked.

‘‘Ah, from what I heard and I
think Officer Coleman had told

(continued on page 8)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983

 

 

— have opportunity

To the Editor,
{ I would like to respond to your
article on black student life at

house, ball and campus
speakers. I am not aware of it
having any white members.

 

by NORMAN BALL
Special to the Phi

The nuclear freeze movement
in Amercia has been receiving
support from many, up until
now, divergent corners of socie-
ty, among them, scientists,
musicians, and, most recently,
the American Catholic Church.
One common tact of all these
organizations has been to ad-
dress the government on behalf
of the people. In light of this
common approach, it might be
advantageous to examine some
assumptions implicit in this ‘‘in-
formal referendum” strategy.

First of all, it may be asking
too much of our govern nent to
police itself in nuclear weapon
matters because governmental
responsibility cannot be ex-
pected to extend beyond the
bounds of its recognized
sovereignty. All governments
represent a_ strictly non-
universal constituency. Be-
tween governments, there con-
tinues to exist a ‘state of
nature’ (with perhaps the
nominal exceptions of the World
Court, United Nations etc...)
Thus, in asking our government
to practice restraint in its deal-
ings with other governments,
we, in effect, ignore the nature
of the beast, whose predilection
it is to protect itself with
whatever resources — nuclear
or otherwise — it can assemble.
We have entrusted an unstable
social structure — government
— with the capability to
eradicate humanity.

Moreover, it has never been
clear just how nuclear weapons
were ever intended for the pro-
tection of the “people.” A
nuclear stockpile seems to in-
sure only the perpetuation of a
regime, where each competing
regime holds the other’s
citizenry hostage. This argu-
ment is premised on the idea
that while a people can con-
ceivably exist without a regime,
no regime can survive without a
people. Thus, though our

Nuclear freeze examined |

e
governments would have us
believe otherwise, the real
enemy is neither Russia nor
America; these are only
convenient foci for our collec-
tive attentions. Rather, the real
conflict is a more fundamental
—and ancient — one, between
the governed and the gover-
nors. The Russian people mean
me no harm; it is the Soviet
regime that I must fear. On the
other hand, I mean no harm to
the Russian people, though I
hesitate in making the same
assurances on behalf of my
government.

In the wake of an impressive
grass-roots campaign perhaps
spurred by this realization, Con-
gress has moved recently to im-
pose a nuclear freeze on the
government. Advocates for a
strong executive have derided
the bill on constitutional
grounds, citing it as an infringe-

Armed Forces. They argue that
the President’s efforts as a
negotiator would be seriously
hampered if he was prevented
from posing nuclear retaliation
as a viable, if unspoken, alter-
native in his dealings with un-
cooperative nations. In short,
the President would lose a
powerful bargaining chip if he
was denied a nuclear capabili-
ty.

What these critics fail to
realize, however, is that the
very presence of a nuclear

' alternative serves to minimize

the gravity of its anticipated ef-
fect. Sustained dialogue has a
way of purging a subject of its
mystique, and it is perhaps the
‘‘mystique” of utter annihila-
tion that has spurned govern-
ments from adopting a nuclear
solution up until now.
Furthermore, there is the
danger that people will become
too comfortable (or, better, less
uncomfortable) with the con-
cept of nuclear weaponry. As
the images conjured by

 

Nagasaki and Hiroshima fade
with the passing of a genera-
tion \uclear exchange will once

again become a dangerous
abstraction. Already, there is
talk of “limited nuclear ex-
changes” in surprisingly high
places of government. Granted,
these scenarios are always
couched in a _ barrage of
rhetorical qualifications
(‘under extenuating  cir-
cumstances,”’ ‘‘in dire national
emergencies,’’ etc...). But
again, that they are even
discussed indicates that a
nuclear response exists within
the realm of possible policy
decisions.

Furthermore, the very notion
of a “limited nuclear ex-
change’”’ is, in itself, a ques-
tionable occurrence. Without
even considering the very
human factors of revenge and
willful retaliation, there re-
mains serious question as to
whether a nuclear exchange
can ever properly be called
“‘limited.’’ The damage to the

environment alone might be so

extensive as to render the perif-
pheral effects “‘limitless.”’

The implications of the
nuclear debate, then, are such
that we might have to reach
beyond our government to find
a suitable solution. Because of
the ultimate nature of nuclear
weapons, a more direct popular
mechanism must be employed
to reduce our reliance upon
government. Government,
after all, is a means towards
enriching people’s lives. But in
releasing nuclear weapons into
the hands of government, we ef-
fectively provide the ‘‘means’’
with the capability to destroy its
ends. — us.

Ideally, no
bodyshould be permitted such
an inordinate amount of power
in determing the existence (or
nonexistence) of posterity. But
with nuclear weapons an in-
escapable reality, we all have a
responsibility to address this
issue directly.

 

; W&L. I am fully aware of the

fact that this is not the ideal
university for minority life.
However, I believe that your ar-
ticle reflected a number of
misconceptions and that lack of
communication which has led to
the current problem.

First of all, in my two years
here, I have never heard of the
so called ‘“Dixie’’ parties that
include simulated lynchings,
nor has anyone that I have ask-
ed. While there can be no de-
nials that there are bigots in our
student body, the disgusting
outbursts of a few students can-
not condemn all W&L students
asracists.

Black students are separated
from the W&L social life, but I
believe that this is partly their
own choice. I have never under-
stood why we need a Student
Association for Black Unity,
which is exclusionary by its
very nature. This group re-
ceives a large amoung of stu-
dent funds, and it has its own

In my opinion, those black
students who are involved at
W&L are primarily on sports
teams, where they get to know
other students. Being in the
same academic classes is not
enough. If black students want
to know white students, they
must be involved in more than
one aspect of student life.

The Ring-tum Phi has done
all W&L students a service by
informing the community of the
problems of black students.
Most students, myself included,
probably had no idea of the
scope of the problem. Black

- students must realize that they

have the same oportunities to
get involved in campus-wide
organizations and activities.
The only way that black stu-
dents can become fully ac-
climated to W&L is if they know
the people who they go to school
with.

Sincerely,
Marc F. Monyek ’85

Coed -- Freedoms

To the Editor,

Your May 13th contention
that the introduction of women
into the Washington and Lee en-
vironment would bring about a
restrictive parietal system
seems to me to be fallacious.
You stated that part of Wash-
ington and Lee’s institutional
philosophy was to provide ‘‘a
climate of learning that
stresses the importance of the
individual and his personal
honor and integrity.’’ You fur-
ther stated that ‘‘our freedoms
are testimony to the existence
of such a climate.’ I ask
—Won’t women be allowed the
freedom of this climate?
Women have individual rights
also. Within the framework of
those rights is their personal
choice to see men whenever and
wherever they please. Further-
more, we do not have a parietal
system for female law stu-

dents; why should we have one
for undergraduates?
Washington and Lee’s respon-
sibility to women students will
be one of security. A beefed-up
security force and electronic
equipment such as a rape but-
tons will be adequate protection
for Washington and Lee fe-
males. Just because the sur-
rounding women’s. colleges
have parietal systems does not
mean W&L will adopt such a
policy. Coed schools such as
Davidson and Amherst do not
have parietal systems. I think
W&L has much more in com-
mon with these coed schools
than with the nearby women’s
colleges. If W&L goes coed, I
think it will be taking a step for-
ward. Hopefully for every step
forward we take we will not
take two steps backward.
Respectfully
Gordon Witherspoon ’83

Ring-tum Phi

WAROPERORIG. 0. ccc ccccecdeccececeees
Business Manager................0eeeeee
WE Fh c ease eed cccapdessiaeess
RIT obs bb vs fo ks va Cathie cee eve

PROCOGPORNEE occ cccccerccciescsevesces
MU 6 on cb cb ab bes ci dnees baarsisieGs

PT aoe eer ree Bill Roberts
Cdeeresievncreenereerereeseds Steve Perry
Cheese LN UEMed ed ee Rr eEas Allen Roberts
VCbr WEL TT hehAN ee tere ees Lee Nichols
vo ewelea sacks obsee Sachs 68% Mike Stachura
jhewAiebes Cbs coer aR ees Jim Laurie
06h 40 O00 0400 Eae 01d e UE Dave Stevens
6gydia hae coeteissentiagesh Eric Campbell
re Py PET reer. David W. Johnston
suri Mike Allen, John Harrison

Andrew Hopps, Ted LeClercq,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, Win Sisson,

oeeees Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
0 oes ee eee vee one eeveetTestt Todd Barstow

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983, Page 3

 

Rats eating lunch. They are allowed to look only at their plates, must lift their food only

*

at right angles, and are required to thoroughly chew and swallow each bite before cutting

The life of a VMI rat is *

By B. SCOTT TILLEY
Phi Staff Writer

(Editor’s Note: This story first ap-
peared in the Richmond News
Leader.)

About 400 Virginia Military
Institute cadets were cele-
brating. They were muddy and
exhausted, but still hugging
each other and hollering class

yells.
The reason?
They had just been

transformed, from a “‘mass’’ of
Rats to a class of fourth-class
cadets. No longer were they
subjected to the trials and
tribulations of the VMI ratline.
The rats had “‘broken out” and
the class of ’86 had been born.

The rat line, an approximate-
ly seven-month period filled
with rigorous mental and
physical trials, had ended.
Each first-year VMI cadet must
have survived the ratline before
the rank of fourth classman is
bestowed upon him.

In the words of one cadet, the
ratline is ‘‘pure hell.”

As tradition has it, the cadets
escape the treacherous grasps
of the ratline in a rite known as
Breakout. It is a Wednesday
ritual that proceeds Resurrec-
tion, a week of extremely tough
mental and physical adversity.

According to third classman
and cadre corporal Kar] Marks,

Oy Og ae Os oes ee TO OS A OOS

Breakout is a week of physical
training and duress, including
reat parties and rifle runs,

s many as several a day.”’

Of course, this could prove to
be a False Resurrection, a
deception that often breaks the
spirit of the cadets. But, if it is
indeed the real thing, the rats
know that Breakout is but a few
days away.

‘‘(Breakout) brought feelings
of anxiety, we didn’t know what
to expect,’’ said Charles Simp-
son, a first year cadet from
Blackstone. “After you get
through it, though, it’s a good
feeling.”

“The theory behind breakout
is that the rats have to get past
the third class and the second
class to be recognized as fourth
classmen,”’ explained Marks.

On that day, the rats advance
in waves against their up-
perclass adversaries. They
scale a muddy hill hosed down
by firetrucks and manned by se-
cond classmen trying to stop
them. After a low crawl through
mud, they then fight their way
past the third classmen in a pit
filled with sundry rubbish and
debris.

The rats, though, were not the
only ones relieved by the ar-
rival of Breakout. So was Brent
Dunahoe. A first classman from
Tyler, Texas, he is president of

the Rat Disciplinary Committee

(RDC), the body that enforces
rat restrictions and the rat line.

“It felt good for me, too,” he
said with a laugh. ‘‘It was pret-
ty moving as well.

“‘We had everybody assembl-
ed in the old courtyard. I saw
the first class president and my
regimental commander up
there. That was a pretty special
moment for me. I had a pretty
good head rush.”’

The moment was special for
the rats for a different reason,
though. They had survived the
phenomenon known as the VMI
ratline.

“The purpose of the ratline;’’
said Dunahoe, ‘‘is to take all
these 400 individuals, get them
looking alike, get them in an en-
vironment that’s tough, stress-
filled, and try to mold them as
one, get them to act in unity.

“‘You don’t want to take away
their individuality, per se, but
you want them to depend on
each other, and to act and con-
form to the system so that they
need each other to overcome
what we’re throwing out at

them.”’
The ratline has often been

described as a tougher counter-
part to the plebe systems found
at the military academies.
Sweat parties, 15 to 30 minute
sessions of arduous exercise
which may occur at virtually
any time of the night and day,

and lifting the next one. (Photo by W. Patrick Hinely WORK/PLAY)

Hell”

are but part of the physical tests
to which the rats are subject.

The rats also have to over-
come mental and emotional
duress. They are constantly
degraded by the upper-
classmen. They memorize the
“Rat Bible,” a book which lists,
among other things, honor
council and class officer names,
traditional fight songs, and
founding dates of VMI build-
ings. They must know menus
three meals in advance. They
are also inundated with a flood
of rat rules and restrictions.
And sometime in between, they
must study.

“There is a degree of in-
terference to study time,” said
Dunahoe, “But that makes you
have to budget your time. You
have other things to do, you
can’t be wasting it, you can’t
just be sleeping, or doodadding
here or there, watching TV.

“You have to know exactly
what you’re doing at all times.
People say this is bad, but it
helps you. It helps you develop
that self-discipline you need
later on to survive, whether you
are going into the military or
civilian life.

“Besides, what is their life?
(The Ratline) is the whole
thing.

“As far as negative things
about the rat system,” he con-
tinued, ‘‘some of the things we

of

 

  

do may be pretty trivial, like
working a guy out for not know-
ing a certain piece of informa-
tion, but again this is part of
paying attention to detail, pay-
ing attention to the little things.
If you don’t know the little
things, how are you going to
know the big things?”’ he asked
rhetorically.

Most of the rats can take the
pressure; a lot cannot. Assis-
tant Director of Admissions
Mark Sandy noted that VMI’s
attrition rate is 15-18 percent.
He attributes only a part of this
to the ratline, though. Some
leave for academic reasons,
and some just decide that VMI
is ‘‘not for them,” he explained.

But there are those who leave
because they are not capable of
handling it. Often they depart
confused or in anguish. Yet they
leave without the condolences
of their classmates.

“If you can’t hack it, you can
just quit. I have no sympathy
for them at ali,”’ said Dunahoe,
with a stoic glare. ‘‘If they can’t
handle what we’re giving out,
they have no business being
here.

“If they are going to call
home to their parents every
time they get yelled at, I’ll wave
to them. I’ll help them pack.
They can leave.

“We don’t treat anybody dif-

(continued on page 10)
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983

 

Commentary

 

Fed has proper role in contraceptives

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON
Liberal-run-amok

In his letter to the editor (‘‘In
favor of the ‘squeal rule’ ”’ May
13), Mr. Hayden wonders ‘‘why
the government is in the con-
traceptive business.’’ One
might as well wonder why the
government is in the welfare
business. The two are closely
linked, indeed the distribution
of contraceptives could be
regarded as_ preventative
welfare.

Mr. Hayden takes exception
the government’s distribution
of contraceptives for both
economic and humanistic
reasons, and I disagree with his
reasoning on both.

Mr. Hayden decries the use of
the taxpayer’s money to pay for
contraceptives for teenagers,
yet he fails to see that the tax-
payers will come out financially
ahead by sponsoring the distri-
bution of contraceptives and
sex education. It is far less ex-
pensive to supply a young cou-
ple with contraceptives and
counseling than to pay for an
abortion or — even worse — to
support a child whose parents

are unable to.

Mr. Hayden also alleges the
government, by distributin or
financing the distribution of
contraceptives, is ‘‘promoting”’
sexual activity among our
youth. Mr. Hayden must be liv-
ing in a vacuum if he does not
realize that sexual activity
among our youth needs no pro-
motion. Furthermore, the quiet
distribution of contraceptives
“‘promotes”’ sexual activity far
less than Hollywood or televi-
sion, both potent forces in form-
ing the attitudes teens hold.

Mr. Hayden’s most serious
error is when he says the people
receiving contraceptives from
the government are ‘not
mature enough to handle the re-
sponsibility (of their sexual ac-
tivity).” By seeking contracep-
tives, the youths are struggling
to accept the responsibility for
what they are doing. The people
who. are not accepting their
responsibility are the ones who
are not seeking help at the
clinics.

Mr. Hayden says the govern-
ment is undermining the ‘‘back-
bone of American society — the
family,’’ however he fails to see

this is erroneous on two points:
First, the average youth’s
parents are not trained profes-
sionals who know about con-
traceptives and sexuality, so
they are not properly qualified
to act as such; Second, and
more importantly, if a teenager
felt secure talking about such
matters with his parents, and
his parents were able to help,
there would not be any need to
seek out federally-funded
counseling or contraceptives.
Unfortunately, the average 16-
year-old is not going to want to
admit to his parents that he is
sexually active, so the clinics
are acting as unbiased and un-
punishing stablizing forces
helping confused teens deal
with very complicated and emo-
tional (not to mention private
and embarrassing) issues.

Rather than undermining the
position of the parents, the
clinics are acting where the
parents have already failed. It
is quite possible more strife
would be caused within families
if parents knew about their
children’s activities than if it
occurred behind their backs,
which is a sad fact.

Being male, Mr. Hayden is
able to take a very flippant at-
titude towards pregnancy and
its consequences because he
does not have to worry about it,
yet every woman who is sexual-
ly active must. If a teenage girl
becomes pregnant she will be
marred for life.

If a young girl who is preg-
nant decides to have an abor-
tion, she will be forced to deal
with the moral aspects of that
decision, and the thought of
having lost her child, a part of
her. If she should give birth and
try to raise the child herself, her
education and social life may be
ruined, and she may never re-
cover her lost education or
youth. If she enlists the aid of
her family this will place an in-
credible burden on this fragile
structure. Or, if a girl gives her
child up for adoption (and very
few do), she will once again
have to deal with the torment of
a lost child, the social
stigmatization and interrupted
education, in addition to the
medical risks encountered by a
young woman giving birth.

All of this torment could, and
should, be prevented. It is up to

the couple to accept this respon-
sibility, but our society should
give them all the support possi-
ble.

Regarding the “Baby Doe
Rule,”’ Mr. Hayden stresses the
term “natural course,’’ failing
to see that the intervention
covered by this rule is hardly
the natural course of life.
Feeding through i.v. tubes is far
from natural or normal. Mr.
Hayden defends the newly-born
infant’s right to ‘“‘normal, pro-
per and natural care,”’ but does
this include radical reconstruc-
tive surgery for a severely mal-
formed children with little hope
of survival? If a child’s body is
unable to support its own life,
the care that sustains life is
hardly “normal.” ‘Normal’
care for a new-born infant
should include diaper chang-
ings, bathing and feeding; NOT
dialysis machines, respirators,
i.v. tubes and electronic equip-
ment. True, this care should be
given toa child that will recover
and later develop normally, but
should it be given to a being that
will never mature emotionally
or physically?

New chief talks about students and the ABC law

By WIN SISSON
Phi Staff Writer

A law change effective in July
of this year could have a major
impact on the nature of the rela-
tionship Lexington’s new Chief
of Police Lawrence 0. Sutton
will form with the students of
Washington and Lee. Because
of recent legislation it will be il-
legal for any person under the
age of 19 to drink alcoholic
beverages in the state of
Virginia. What this means is,
during Rush next year approx-
imately 80 percent of the
freshmen will not be of legal
drinking age. According to next
year’s SAB Treasurer John
Haywood, all Rush dates will be
dry.

Sitting with his back.straight,
elbows resting securely on his
new desk, and hands clasped
firmly together the Chief ex-
pressed his view on the new law
in simple black and white
terms: “It will be up to the
students in positions of respon-
sibility to prevent problems

from arising ... I believe it is the
constitutional right of any per-
son to do as he pleases as long
as he does not infringe upon the
rights of others, however for
every act there is a conse-
quence, for every cause an ef-
fect.’’ He noted that he did not
want to take any ‘‘drastic
measures,’’ but was quick to
add “‘there will be control.”
Chief Sutton’s, 31 years of
police work have involved him
in many things including
special work in_ narcotics,
homocide, and .intra-
departmental security. His past
record does nothing to disprove
his self-description as ‘‘a
curious and tough discipli-
narian.” As he settled into his
office he expressed his desire to
talk with students of the univer-
sity in order to build effective
lines of communication bet-
ween the department and W&L.
Sutton vowed to be available at
all times in hopes of for-
mulating a policy based on
mutual cooperation with the
college students of Lexington.

ICSU E MAND Edam lilacs

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and -

eral ieer UM ee ks tag

Only
EN)

600 E. Nelson St. Lexington

   

Sut

PHONE 463-7000

Former Police Chief James
A. Kirby will aid Sutton in his
transition from Virginia Beach
to Lexington. Kirby is acting in
the newly created capacity of
police inspector. A sheet hand-
ed out during the January 11
Council meeting tentatively
described Kirby’s new job in
this fashion: ‘‘The inspector
performs difficult protective
work in the police department
involving an element of per-
sonal danger. (He) personally
participates in more complex
police problems; does related
work as required.”’

Chief Sutton was more spe-
cific in describing the duties
Kirby will perform. They in-
clude: reporting shitt sche-
dules, scheduling in service
training, recruiting and train-
ing new officers, keeping inven-
tory of department supplies and
following the dictates of the
police chief.

Kirby resigned his post as
chief in mid-January, following
a report submitted to City Coun-
cil in December by L.M. Wal-

ters, an independent in-
vestigator hired by Council to
study the office of chief of
police. At the time of Kirby’s
resignation, Mayor Phillips em-
phasized that the Council had
never questioned Kirby’s ‘‘per-
sonal honesty or integrity,” and
City Manager John Doane
stated that the position of in-
spector had been under con-
sideration for four or five years.
The police inspector receives a
salary of $20,000 while the
salary of chief of police ranges
from $19,250 to $24,578 reported
Doane. Kirby, who turns 53 this
month, will be eligible for
retirement when he is 55. At the
time of Kirby’s resignation
Doane declined to make the
Walters report public explain-
ing that since the report con-
tained a study of the office of
chief of police, personnel issues
were inseparable from a study
of the office itself.

Stating that he still Had not
read the Walters report, Chief
Sutton explained: ‘The powers
that be were satisfied with the

APARTMENTS FOR RENT

College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month
Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

Walters report, and as far as I
am concerned it is a dead issue
... the past is the past, I can only
deal with the here and now ... I
have no responsibility for the
past and I don’t believe in witch
hunts.”

With an obvious desire to
start afresh Sutton concluded:
“I want to have a dedicated,
cooperative proficient, profes-
sional department which the
community can take pride in.”

Law school
graduates 123

The Washington and Lee

University School of Law will
award the juris doctor degree to

123 students during commence-
ment exercises this Sunday, -

May 22, at 4:30 p.m. on the
university’s historic front cam-

pus.

W&L President John D.
Wilson will deliver the com-
mencement address while Roy
L. Steinheimer, dean of the law
school, will also present
remarks.

The commencement will be
Steinheimer’s last as the W&L
law school dean. He will retire
on June 30 from the post he has
held since 1968 and will be suc-
ceeded by Frederic L. Kirgis
Jr., who has been the director of
the Frances Lewis Law Center
at Washinton and Lee.

The public is invited to attend
the ceremony in front of the
President’s House. In the event
of rain, the ceremony will be
held in Lee Chapel.
By ALLEN S. ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

The same body of profes-
sionals which presents ‘‘the
Oscars’ each year — the
Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences — has award-
ed Washington and Lee Univer-
sity junior Richard Rosser the
1983 Student Achievement
Award for his animated film,
‘“‘No One For Chess.”’

Rosser’s “‘clay-motion”’ of a
surreal chess game was deem-
ed the most artistically and
technically creative animation
ina field of entries that included
submissions from students at
the nation’s prominent film
schools. For excellence in
animation, one of four award
categories, Rosser will enjoy
round-trip airfare to Los
Angeles, where he will be
awarded a trophy and a $1,000 |
grant. The June 5 ceremony at
the Academy’s Goldwyn Thea-
tre in Beverly Hills will cap off
four days of contact with
motion-picture innovators and
personalities. Rosser’s work
will be included in the compila-
tion of winning films, which
tours American’s colleges, art
centers, and museums.

Rosser received a telegram
the night of April 17, and was
“bouncing off the walls’ as
soon as he saw the Beverly Hills
return address. “I’m still like,
trying to take it all in,”’ he said
in an interview with the Phi
Wednesday. ‘‘It’s unreal. It also
shows the nation’s film industry
that we have a diverse school.”
Addressing accusations of a
sterile environment at W&L,
Rosser said,’’There is some
creativity going around. You
just have to search it out. You
have to be active.”

The producer of ‘‘No One For
Chess’’ found his own creative
impulse in a Journalism film
seminar last spring. His award-
winning film was first submit-

ee

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983, Page 5

$<
W&L junior wins film award

 

Richard Rosser, who has been given an Academy Award for his animated short ‘‘No One For Chess,”
during the filming. (Phi photo by Peter Cronin)

ted as a term project for Pro-
fessor John K. Jennings. Rosser
said he was “intrigued” by
animation and chose the clay
medium because he feels he is
‘not very artistic.’”’ Rosser
decided on a chess motif to
“animate an amazing thing that
can’t move in real life.” Using a
game table from the student
coop, he blacked out the borders
to isolate a central chess board.
The craftsman then spent three
days molding the clay
chessmen.

“I have no concept of
strategic chess,’ Rosser con-
fessed, ‘‘so I had two friends
play a long-winded game while
I recorded their moves.” This
phase of the project posed the
greatest obstacle to Rosser,
because one of the players
repeatedly worked toward a

Film Society to screen

Herzog’s “Stroszek”’

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s final presentation of
the 1982-83 season will be the
1977 German film ‘‘Stroszek,”’
directed by Wener Herzog. The
film, which is in German with
English sub-titles, will be shown
at 8 p.m. in classroom A of
Lewis Hall in the W&L Law
School. There is no charge for
admission and the public is in-
vited.

Director Herzog has been one
of the leading figures of the New
German Cinema. Among his
best-known works are ‘‘Aguirre
— The Wrath of God,”
‘‘Nosferatu,’’ “‘Heart of Glass,”’
‘*Kasper Houser,’’

‘“‘Woyckeck,”’
roldo.”’
‘Stroszek’’ is a bittersweet
“ballad” of three misfits — a
simple-minded jail-bird, a pro-
stitute, and a dotty old man
—who make a pilgrimage from
Berlin to the promised land of
northern Wisconsin, where they
find that the American Dream
is available on the installment
plan. Their efforts to cope with
the illusions and realities of
modern society are both
humorous and poignant.

and ‘“‘Fitzcar-

The Film Society is extreme-
ly grateful for the generous sup-
port provided by its many
friends and we eagerly look for-
ward to next year.

quick checkmate. ‘‘He kept win-
ning,’’ Rosser lamented, ‘‘and I
needed a long sequence. I had to
keep reminding them to make
as many captures as possible.”

Rosser used the game’s se-
quence as the basis for his film.
Ensconced in a cubicle on the
fourth floor of Reid Hall, the
producer spent more than 20
hours filming the 3-minute
animation.

To produce the illusion of the
chessmen’s independent mo-
tion, Rosser would sculpt or
shift a piece and then expose

two or three frames of 16 mm

film. Through this meticulous
progression, the pieces seem to
move fluidly. This is the effect
alluded in the title, ‘‘No One For
Chess.” The chess figurines
themselves wage the battle,

rea awe Ze wwe www AWA WWW Ow LL

  
 

   

which is punctuated by bizarre
and often humorous metamor-
phoses.

At one point, a _ bishop
becomes a rocket and fires
diagonally across the board,
toppling several pieces before
capturing an enemy rook. Later
a tree sprouts up in an unoc-

cupied square, transforms to —

the shape of a centipede and
then scurries around the board.
The insect finally becomes a
shepherd’s hook which pulls a
meek pawn off the board. When
another pawn is knocked out by
one of his counterparts, a
ponderous monk wanders onto
the board to bear away the dead
knave.

Many of the captures take
strange turns — a bishop’s head

becomes a decapitating scythe;
a triumphant knight rears its
head and neighs a silent, vic-
tory whinny. Many of these
were spontaneous innovations,
designed to draw the viewer’s
attention away from the techni-
cal progress of the chess con-
test. By placing two or three
figures in motion simultaneous-
ly, Rosser created a film which
still holds surprises after
several screenings. ‘‘I got into it
and got on a roll,’’ Rosser said.
“It was so much fun, I worked
four to six hours at a time.”

Most of the production time
was devoted to reshaping the
clay figures. Rosser said the
filming flowed so smoothly that
he only had to edit two sections
— once where he had left a
sculpting knife in the field of
view, and once to splice the
credits to the front of the
filmstrip.

 

Ascene from the film.

Rosser, a Business Ad-
ministration major from
Oklahoma City, said that
“Since the recognition of my
film by the Academy, I have
become more interested in film
and video as media of expres-
sion. With the $1,000 grant, I
hope to continue experimenting
with these media, especially
with video.’’ Rosser said video,
which is now being creatively
linked to computers, is at the
cutting edge of film innovation.
“You are limited only by your
imagination.”

. : .
Y Siaghies® »
\ ro Reais } ‘
\ A ‘
‘ all ee :
\\ i ’ \
weeds, ex. [The Snack Bar
» ’ \
Vig and Supply Store
|? -
\
\ \
Y
. .
e e ,
| will be open for your convenience |
\ \
\ \
\ \
Sunday, May 22 |
\
from 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
‘ se
Page 6, The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983

 

Wilson

minute. We’re setting up in both
places. As of now, it’s still out-
side.”’

With only a few hours remain-
ing before the ceremony, Presi-
dent Wilson told a visitor to his
office, ‘‘It’d be so much better
to be out and have Lee Chapel in
the foreground and the Colon-
nade in the background.

“T told them, ‘We’ll do it with
umbrellas if we have to. Let’s
hold off until the last feasible
moment.’”’ The buildings and
grounds crews continued to
ready both locations.

A local merchant summed up
the dilemna when she told a stu-
dent, ‘‘The aesthetics are for
Lee Chapel, but common sense
says Warner Center.”’

The latter prevailed. Two
hours before the 3:00 ceremony
the inaugural committee an-
nounced that the event would be
held in the Warner Center gym-
nasium. The weather situation

 

was on everyone's mind, and
President Wilson mentioned it
at the beginning of his ‘‘Re-
sponse”’ after taking the oath of
office:

“T mustn’t begin this glorious
day for me and for my family
with an apology,’’ he said. “I
won’t do that, I’ll do it in fact
with a note of gratitude to
trustee Jack Warner, who pro-
vided the shelter that we now
seek from the elements.

“I ask you to imagine behind
me the marvelous face and
form of Lee Chapel, and I, in
turn, will look out and suppose
that we’re looking out from the
stage upon the Colonnade that

so graces this marvelous
place.”’
In fact, behind President

Wilson’s head was an enormous
bronze plaque designating ‘‘The
A.E. Mathis Wrestling Room.”
This was not President Wil-
son’s first disappointing ex-
perience with inclement

 

 

uccdaus.

IN

‘The Cockpit

W&L STUDENT
ACTIVITIES BOARD

Presents:

Rev,
Billy
Wirtz
May 24

 

 

 

"It's The Place To Be’

 

 

 

a en a

 

 

weather. In an interview a few
hours before the ceremony, he
described a high school football
game that ‘‘was very important
at the time that I vividly
remember losing.”’

The winning touchdown came
off a 50-yard pass for which
Wilson, as safety, was responsi-
ble. “We shouldn’t have been
able to play, and he shouldn’t
have been able to throw the ball

and they shouldn’t have been -

able to catch it, but they did.”
Preceeding the oath of office,

the ‘“‘Convocation Address”’ was

given by Dr. Thomas A. Bart-

lett, chancellor of the Univer- —

sity of Alabama system. Wilson
said he met Bartlett when he
was president of Wells College,
a school for women in Aurora,
New York, and Bartlett was
president of Colgate University,
which at that time was an all-
male institution. ‘“‘We had a
W&L-Hollins type of relation-
ship,” Wilson said.

The two men had crossed
paths earlier in their careers
without knowing it — Bartlett
was leaving Oxford University
the same summer Wilson was
arriving.

Wilson said in the interview
that Bartlett ‘is a wonderful
man. I’ve always admired Tom.
He’s full of energy—bright as he
can be. We’ve been friends for
14 or 15 years.”

Bartlett returned the com-
pliments in his speech. He call-
ed Wilson ‘‘one of the most ad-
mired and respected people in
American higher education,”’
and told the audience, ‘Your
University has chosen its new
president with great wisdom
and with great good fortune.”

He continued, ‘‘In John Wil-
son, you have selected for your
leader an ideal combination of
intelligence, refinement,
energy and experience. Seldom
have I been at an inauguration
where I felt so confident that the
elements for optimism were
present.”’

Bartlett admonished his
listeners: “‘You have the right
president; now you of W&L
must support him, nourish him,
and communicate with him.”’

In his address, ‘‘Change and
Tradition,” Bartlett discussed
three themes which ‘surround
higher education today. During
the Wilson era,” he said, “‘they
will provide much of the chal-
lenge for W&L and for all of
higher education.”

They were: “the crisis of
quality and purpose in primary
and secondary education, with
the strong reverberation that
comes into higher education’;
“the challenge of international
economic competitiveness fac-
ing our country’; and ‘the
threat of personal obselescence
in a time of rapid technological
change that faces all who
graduate.”

Wilson, wearing his black
academic robe with a royal blue
stole, spoke for twenty-five
minutes after taking the oath of

 

Wilson accepts standing applause during yesterday’s ceremony.
(Phi photo by Dave Stevens)

office. He promised his listen-
ers:

“T pledge to you all that I will
do everything in my power to
serve this university well and
faithfully and in the small ways
open to me will try, though I
know I can’t possibility do it,
but will try to repay you for
your confidence and your boun-
tiful kindnesses.”’

He praised the University on
a number of counts. Of its
heritage, he said, ‘‘We are here
to celebrate an institution ... not
the twenty-first president of the
institution, but the institution
itself — the sixth oldest in
America, graced by a remarka-
ble company of outstanding
leaders over time, quintessen-
tially, of course, General Lee
—the epitome of dignity and
courage and vision.”’

Wilson also admires the in-
stitution’s character. “It is a
place,”’ he said, ‘‘in which it is
still possible to talk of ideals
and of courtesy and of civility
and even to practice those
things.”’

He also spoke of one of W&L’s
most famous traditions. ‘‘The
Honor System here,’’ he told the
crowd, ‘‘is not an empty institu-
tion — it’s a lively and impor-
tant institution and students
carry the great burden of Disci-
plining each other to the stan-
dards and the conduct that we
expect of scholars § and

gentlemen.” .

The new president also is im-
pressed with the school’s
priorities. As an example, he
cited a comment James Ballen-
gee, the rector of the Board of
Trustees, had made to him at
the first board meeting. He
quoted Ballengee as - having
said:

‘Look, your main obligation
is to make as clear as possible
what it takes to maintain the
first-rate quality of this institu-
tion, and we, the trustees, will
see to the financial side, after
that, and make certain that you
will have the means to achieve
those ends. We look to you for
clear of expression of what is
required.”’

Wilson remarked, ‘‘I think
that is a most dramatic way of
saying that our priorities are in
order.”’

Other events during the in-
auguration included special
performances by the nine mem-
ber Brass Ensemble, directed
by Robert Stewart, and the 29-
member Glee Club, directed by
Gordon Spice.

The academic procession at
the program’s beginning includ-
ed the faculty, representatives
of about seventy other colleges
and universities, and 29 student
delegates. The academic robes,
observers @pted, bore the un-
mistakable dor of mothballs.
The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983, Page 7

 

 

Members of the Washington and Lee University Theatre rehearse a scene from “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” which will be presented May 20 through May 25 in the Troubadour Theatre at the cor-
ner of Main and Henry streets in Lexington. (Cronin photo for W&L)

‘Midsummer Night’s Dream’
presented by theatre class

Although it is highly unlikely
that William Shakespeare had
Washington and Lee Universi-
ty’s ‘“lotal ‘Iineatre’ class in
mind when he penned “‘A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,’’ it is
nonetheless true that the bard’s
work suits the W&L class per-
fectly.

With a number of innovations
and plenty of surprises, the
W&L University Theatre pro-

duction of ‘“A Midsummer
Night’s Dream’’ will be
presented tonight, May 20

through May 25 in the
Troubadour Theatre on the cor-
ner of Main and Henry streets
in Lexington.

Curtain time for each perfor-
mance is 8 p.m. Tickets are $3.
Reservations are required and
can be made by calling the
theatre box office at 463-9111,
Ext. 371, or 463-9395 from 10:90
a.m, to4p.m.

The course known as ‘“‘Total
Theatre” at Washington and
Lee is offered during the univer-
sity’s six-week spring term and
is a study of the technical
aspects of directing and acting
problems involved in a specific
style of dramatic literature.
The course culminates in the
production of a play.

According to Albert C. Gor-
don, professor of fine arts at
W&L and director of ‘‘A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,’’ the
Shakespeare play was selected
for the ‘“‘Total Theatre’ class
this spring because ‘‘it offers all
the challenges that we want the
students to experience in order
to get a truly “‘total’’ feel of the
production of a play. In addition
to providing a lot of parts, it
presents a variety of technical
problems that the students
must solve.”’

In its search to solve the pro-

blems Shakespeare has posed
for it, the 21-member ‘‘Total
Theatre” class has borrowed

heavily from constructivistic
art and French surrealist
painter Marc Chagall.

The set is designed along the
lines of constructivism with
numerous ramps and moving
parts.

“This is the kind of play in
which you want people to have a
lot of movement,” explained
Gordon. “There are many
magic entrances and exits, and
the set has to be designed with
those in mind. I think the
students have done an excellent
job along with Tom Zeigler,
assistant professor of drama, of
creating a set that lends itself to
this play.”

As for Chagall’s influence
Gordon noted that the lighting
and backdrops were inspired by
the French artist’s work.

“Chagall was taken as an in-
spiration because of the colors
and the dream-like quality of
his paintings. He even did a
painting called ‘A Midsummer
Night’s Dream’ and was very
fond of the play,”’ Gordon said.
‘The study of this artist by the
class is meant to give a sur-

realistic quality to the produc-
tion.”

One other area in which the
students had great input in-
volves costuming. Much of the
play takes place within a magic
forest. And, as Gordon explain-
ed, the characters entering that
forest are attired in rather
bland costumes. During their
Stay in the forest their costumes
begin to become more colorful
through the addition of
materials to the costumes.

“‘By the final scene outside
the forest there is a great deal
of color with the costumes,”’
Gordon said.

There are 26 persons on the
cast and, in addition to the W&L
students, the play features
several students from Lex-
ington High School.

Included among the lead
characters are W&L junior
Chris Cartmill of Lincoln, Neb.,
as Oberon; drama instructor
Paula Langdon as Titania;
W&L freshman Joel James as
Lysander; and, Lexington High
School student Sarah Phemister
as Hermia; W&L junior Ted
Petrides as Bottom; and, Kate
Settle, an exchange student at
W&L, as Helena.

 

CINEMA |

eve e ee mo a

Pe ee)

261-2900

Buena Vista

 

1S |
pe
Roy
Shows Sun.-Thurs.
7:30 only

a couple of bodies

oe

hd CTE Ta

 

Fri, & Sat.
7:30 & 9:19

Mon. night
all seats $1.50

 

The Men’s Cargo

By BRIAN J. OLIGER
Phi Staff Writer

Ah, yes, Men At Work...The
refreshingly zany Australian
band that introduced the
vegemite sandwich to the free
world and asked the immortal
question, “‘Who Can It Be
Now?” While the band’s debut
album is still riding Billboard’s
Top Ten more than a year after
its release in the U.S., their
follow-up project, Cargo, seems
destined to ride a similar wave
of success. The formula in-
troduced on Business As Usual is
utilized again on this album.
That formula calls for almost
nonsensical lyrics which tease
the imagination, through sim-
ple but tuneful melodies and
loose rhythms.

Lead guitarist and vocalist
Colin Hay has clearly emerged
as the leader of the Men,
although Greg Ham_ on
keyboards, sax, flute, and 101
other instruments is certainly
the most talented and versatile
musician of the bunch. Hay
writes the bulk of.the band’s
material, but once again
rhythm guitarist Ron Strykert
has lent a couple of his own
compositions to the album.

The single ‘‘Overkill,’’ which
may already be a candidate for
the ruined-by-too-much-airplay
hall of fame, is nevertheless a
fine example of the tuneful

melodies which Cargo appears
to have inherited from _ its
predecessor. It has a catchy
melody with predictable curves
and loops and ups and downs,
but at the same time there is
about it an unpredictable hook
just when the lyrics need it.
Hay’s nasal vocals have a child-
like appeal which makes the
‘‘implication/complica-
tion/imagination/situation’’
rhyme most agreeable when
placed on top of the music. ‘‘Dr.
Heckle and Mr. Jive’ and
“Highwire” are further ex-
amples of the effectiveness of
this technique.

For MTVaholics, ‘Overkill’’
is a textbook for rock video, as
are the earlier ‘‘Who Can It Be
Now?” and ‘“‘Down Under.”’ It is
more serious in nature (no Men
hopping around the Mojave
desert in underwear), but it is
very well directed.

Finally, when Business As
Usual came out, its sound was
unique, to say the least. It was
one of those rare LP’s that
critics and audiences agreed
was good. Here a band had
come up with a sound that was
new, danceable, refreshing, and
downright fun; and they did it
without resorting to bizarre
amplification techniques or an
army of computers and syn-
thesizers. Cargo has established
this sound as more than a novel-

ty.

Sat. & Sun. Mats. 2 p.m.
All seats $1.50—Mon. night All seats $1.50

ae ee ad tay eS

See this 3-D i
space adv. at

 

 

 

SOGGY

 

 

ee,

The first movie that puts

Lae

~~ vw
WELD OVER
2 week
aoe

iT var illaneatce

WARREN OATES « CANDY CLARK » DANTEL STERN AG

 

me

 

HE’S OUT THERE..:
ROY SCHEIDER °

 

 

Skyline Drive-in Flea Market
250 W. Waynesboro
Open Sundays

 
Page 8, The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983

 

 

FOI Act request denied by City Council

(continued from page 1)

me previously that they were to
go to the Chief and tell him that
they had seen Flint and Purvis
in behind Roses with boxes and
that they strongly suspicioned
or had actually seen them bring
the box out the back door of
Roses between or around ten
o'clock at night when they were
coming out of Spanky’s,”’
Hamilton said.

“Did you ever mention it to
Colbert or Coleman yourself?”’
Layne asked.

‘I, itseems like I have talked
to Coleman about it. And he said
that they had told the Chief and
he said he more or less would
look into it or something like
that,’’ Hamilton said

Barry Flint pleaded guilty in
March 1982 to charge of stealing
$280 from the Hop-In store on
North Main St. Flint was placed
on probation. Jack Purvis

pleaded guilty on May 20, 1982
to charges of grand larceny and
Statutory burglary. He was
sentenced by Circuit Court
Judge Rudolph Bumgardner to
12 years in prison.

Purvis testified to the State
Police that, as a new officer, he

‘brought suspicions he had of

other officers breaking into
Lexington establishments to the
attention of then Captain Kirby.

‘“‘At the time Kirby was Cap-
tain, and I told him I couldn’t
watch the City and the men I
worked with too and I thought
something fishy was going on
and he said, ‘Okay, just do the
best you can.’ And that was the
last I ever had to do,”’ Purvis
said.

“Did you ever mention to Kir-
by at that time that you thought
they were breaking into
anything?’’ Layne asked.

“*Yes Sir,”’ Purvis said. ‘‘Kir-

Haig: bargaining
through strength

By PHIL MURRAY
Phi Staff Writer

Foreign policy is a test of
character and Americans must
“avoid the delusions of the ear-
ly 70s” when detente replaced
strength, said former Secretary
of State Gen. Alexander M.
Haig.

In a short speech before
several thousand people at
Virginia Military Institute’s
graduation on Tuesday, Haig
stressed the need for a balance
between ‘“‘the dialectic of pieties
and manipulation” in pursuit of
American foreign policy goals.

In the past, he said, too much
emphasis has been placed on
ideals.

“We cannot expect signifi-
cant reductions in nuclear
arms,” he said, ‘‘unless the
Soviet leadership is convinced
that we have the courage of our
convictions.”

Haig’s speech coincides with
the resumption of U.S.-Soviet
talks in Geneva on limiting
medium-range missiles in
Western Europe. The North
Atlantic Treaty Organization
plans to deploy 572 Pershing II
and cruise missiles in five coun-
tries at the end of this year.

‘Meanwhile, in Moscow, a
senior Soviet official, Anatoly

Alexandrov, threatened Tues-
day that the Soviet Union would
adopt a. policy of ‘‘automatic
retaliation...at all targets on the
territories of all potential
enemies” if new American
medium-range nuclear
weapons are placed in Europe. ]

Haig said that proponents of
the nuclear freeze might bring
about the outcome they are try-
ing to prevent by leaving
America in a poor bargaining
position.

America must be willing and
able ‘“‘to punish infractions”
anywhere in the world, he said.

Haig also cited ‘‘the
emergence of nuclear schizo-
phrenia”’ in Western Europe as
a major obstacle for American
foreign policy.

Europeans are suffering from
two paranoias, he said: a con-
cern in the early 1970s that
America would never be willing
to trade Washington for
Moscow and a concern since
1979 that America might indeed
go to nuclear war, but confine it
to Western Europe.

Haig is a senior fellow with
the Hudson Institute, which
specializes in national security
research. He was supreme
allied commander in Europe
from 1974-1979 and Secretary of
State from 1980-82.

FLORIST &
GREENERY

165 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

(703) 463-9152
CAPDDAAODAOAPYY

by, if you went to him to make
an allegation like that he would
sort of get mad at you. He didn’t
like for you to do that. So I guess
that’s why he was never told
anymore than he was. Lots of
times you could tell Kirby and
later he would say you didn’t
tell him,” Purvis said.

“To your knowledge Jack, did
he ever follow up on any of this
stuff that you told him?’’ Chap-
man asked.

“‘Not that I know of,” Purvis
said.

The statements by Purvis and
Hamilton indicate that Kirby
might have known about the
unusual activities of police of-
ficers on the late-night shifts.
Kirby has denied any knowl-
edge of the theft ring during his
six years as police chief.

Former officer Donald Stub-
blefield testified to the State
Police that he was warned by a
veteran officer not to rely on
other officers for support in
dangerous situations.

“And, like I say, they told me
not to be in a hurry to go toa
fight, because they were slow to
back you up, if you get in there
and get hurt. And like I say, that
it had been rumored that they,
you know, do take stuff,”’ Stub-
blefield said.

“You think these rumors
were prevalent enough that the
supervisor in the Department
would have been aware of it?”
Special Agent L.F. Craft asked.

“I don’t know, just between
the men and myself. I really
don’t know,”’ Stubblefield said.

As a new officer on the force
in 1981, Stubblefield quickly
learned of the theft ring. The in-
vestigation by Walters resulted
in part from the questions rais-
ed by the testimony of Hamil-
ton, Purvis and Stubblefield.

The Walters report should
have determined how a rookie
patrolman could have learned
so quickly of the theft ring while
Chief Kirby never learned of it
in more than ten years of rising
through the ranks to become
chief, and, according to Hamil-
ton and Purvis, being told on at
least two occasions by his of-
ficers that others were acting

suspiciously on the late-night ©

shift.

The FOI Act preamble em-
bodies a fundamental! principle
of American government.

“It is the purpose of the
General Assembly by providing
this chapter to ensure to the
people of this Commonwealth
ready access to records in the
custody of public officials and
free entry to meetings wherein
the business of the people is be-
ing conducted. This chapter
recognizes that the affairs of

government are not intended to”

be conducted in an atomsphere
of secrecy since at all times the
public is to be the beneficiary of
any action taken at any level of
government. To the end that the

of this chapter may be
realized, it shall be liberally
construed to promote an in-
creased awareness by all per-
sons of governmental activities
and afford every opportunity to
citizens to witness the opera-

tions of government. Any ex-
ception or exemption shall be
narrowly construed in order
that no thing which should be
public may be hidden from any
person,”’ the Act says.

The people of Lexington have
a right to see for themselves
how the Walters report deals
with the publicly raised ques-
tion of Kirby’s possible know}-
edge of the theft ring. Kirby’s
salary has been and will be paid
in the future with their tax
dollars. It is the responsibility
of the Police Department to pro-
tect and serve the Lexington
community. Whether or not Kir-
by knew of the theft ring and
took no action to stop it is a mat-
ter of public business if he is to
remain as a law enforcement
officer.

Yet, the Walters report has
been handled in an atomsphere
of secrecy. Council has met only
in executive session to discuss
the report. City Manager Doane
has repeatedly denied requests
by the news media for inter-
views to ask questions about the
report. And finally, the Mayor
and City Council have cited six
exemptions of the FOI Act as
allowing them to withhold the
document from the public view.

The FOI Act should not be us-
ed in this case as an instrument
to withhold information from
the people of Lexington. Mayor
Phillips and City Council should
at least disclose the factual
determinations of the Walters
report which deal directly with
the question of Kirby’s possible
knowledge of the theft ring.

ROTC awards given to seniors

Douglas W. Lessley, a
Washington and Lee University
senior from Charleston, W.Va.,
has been presented the Outstan-
ding Cadet Award in the univer-
sity’s ROTC program.

Lessley received the universi-
ty sabre from Washington and
Lee President John D. Wilson
during the annual President’s
Day Awards Ceremony on Mon-
day (May 9) in Lee Chapel. The
Outstanding Cadet Award is
determined by a vote of the
W&L Corps of Cadets.

Robert G. Ortiz, a senior from
Hopewell, Va., received the Ma-
jor Ronald O. Scharnberg
Memorial Award, which
recognizes the W&L cadet who
most nearly typifies the
Washington and Lee tradition of
the citizen-scholar-soldier.

David P. Ridlon of West Hart-
ford, Conn., won the George C.
Marshall ROTC Award given to
the senior who demonstrates
those leadership and scholastic
qualities that epitomized the
career of General Marshall.

Lt. Col. David F. Fowler Jr.,
professor of military science at
Washington and Lee, presided
at the ceremony.

Other ROTC Awards
presented during the Presi-

dent’s Day Awards ceremcny
were:

Association of the U.S. Army
ROTC Gold Medal Award: Ed-
ward J. O’Brien, junior from
Norwich, N.Y.

Virginia Frontier Chapter
Daughters of the American
Revolution Award: Michael S.
Skardon, senior from Florence,
S.C.

Son of the American Revolu-
tion Award: Mark A. Bertolini,
freshman from Bellerose, N.Y.

American Veterans of World
War II Award: Stephen J.A.
Smith, junior from Richmond.

National Sojourners Award:
E. Marshall Bowden,
sophomore from Lynchburg.

Veterans of Foreign Wars of
the USA Awards: Keith E.
Goretzka, a senior from West
Chester, Pa.; Eric G. Storey, a
junior from West Chester, Pa.;
Robert N. Miller, sophomore
from Columbia, Md.; Anthony
D. McCann, freshman from
Huntington, N.Y.

Military Order of the World
Wars Award: David L. Cole,
senior from Martinsburg,
W.Va. (gold medal); Timothy
P. Rock, junior from Houston,
Tex. (silver); Paul A. Driscoll,
sophomore from Norfolk, Va.
(silver); Kenneth L.
Lindemann, freshman from
Atlanta (bronze).

Award: Newton P. Kendrick,
senior from Norfolk; Andrew J.
MacLellan, junior from Flem-
ington, N.J.; David D.
Branscom, sophomore from
Fincastle, Va.; and, Arthur A.
Kandarian, freshman from
Cumberland, R.I.

Reserve officers association
of the United States ROTC
medals: Anthony J. Zaccagnini,
senior from Reisterstown, Md.
(gold medal); Parker B.
Schenecker, junior from Fort
Worth (silver medal); David E.
McGehee, sophomore from
Brownsboro, Ala. (bronze
medal).

The Daughters of Founders
and Patriots Award: Andrew B.
Cole, sophomore from Spencer,
Mass.

American Legion Awards: H.
Bowen Woodruff, senior form
Anniston, Ala. (scholastic ex-
cellence); Paul N. Farquhar-
son, junior from Hampton, Va.
(scholastic excellence); Harry
A. Feuerstein, senior from
‘Smithtown, N.Y. (military ex-
cellence); Richard B. Jones Jr.,
junior from Atlanta (military
excellence).

Association of the U.S. Army
ROTC Award: Roy F. Unger
Jr., sophomore from Havre
The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983, Page 9

 

 

South African stresses strategic issues,

downplays racial problems in

By NELSON PATTERSON
Phi Staff Writer

Deloray van Tonder, senior
information officer and Third
Secretary of the South African
Embassy, began his speech
Monday night by proposing to
share a ‘glimpse of the realities
of my country.”

Speaking before 50 people in
duPont auditorium, van Tonder
first explained the vital U.S.
economic interests in South
Africa. Because of its mineral
wealth, South Africa finds itself
increasingly involved in global
politics. Furthermore, its
strategic position between the
Atlantic and Indian oceans and
its decidedly pro-Western
government accentuate its
practical importance.

‘“‘Three thousand vessels —80
percent of OPEC’s oil to the
West, passes by the tip of South
Africa. Seventy percent of the

Dave Stevens)

 

South African embassy official Deloray Van Tonder. (Phi photo by

West’s strategic mineral sup-
plies either originate in or pass
by South Africa on their way to
their destination. Twenty-five
percent of Europe’s food sup-
plies pass by South Africa,” van

'Tonder said, adding that a re-

cent Defense Department study
showed that 2.4 million barrels
of U.S. oil imports enter South

African waters each day.
Stressing South Africa’s
strategic importance, van

Tonder called his country the
“Persian Gulf of minerals.”
Twenty-five out of thirty metals
deemed vital to U.S. military
and technological needs are ex-
ported principally by South
Africa. The U.S. alone depends
on South Africa for 50 percent of
its raw mineral and metal im-
ports.

“In 1979, 93 percent of the
U.S. imported platinum, 76 per-
cent of its cobalt, 44 percent of
its manganese and 47 percent of
its chromium came from South
Africa,’ van Tonder said.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTHERN INN

Students, Make This

Your Headquarters For
Good Food And
Service
in a fine atmosphere
of quality

  

 

 

 

 

These metals are vital to jet-
engine and high-technology pro-
duction.

South Africa’s economic
stability also stands out,
especially in comparison to the
rest of the African continent.
South Africa accounts for 25
percent of the combined
African GNP, yet it houses only
6 percent of the continent’s
population. Van Tonder pointed
out that South Africa has engag-
ed its neighbors in varied
economic projects to revitalize
the region. An_ extensive,
cooperative transportation net-
work has linked South Africa’s
landlocked neighbors to major
ports. South Africa has‘ also
helped establish a joint com-
munication network and has
helped fund the construction of
hydroelectric dams.
Agriculturally, South Africa ex-
ports large amounts of wheat
and maize to its neighbors.

Van Tonder could not avoid
discussing South Africa’s racial
problems. Seeking to defuse
criticisms of ‘‘apartheid’’
(South Africa’s official policy of
racial discrimination), he
outlined a 3-point plan designed
to lessen racial tensions and to
give limited self-rule to South
Africa’s black majority.

“The first step involves the
creation of a new constitution
creating a tricameral govern-
ment — ‘three-house govern-
ment’ you Americans say — for
whites, coloreds and Asians,”’
van Tonder said.

A second step would involve
the confederation of South
African states (excluding the
black, tribal ‘‘nation-states’’) in
an economic, political and
cultural forum. This forum
would advise the new President
of the country.

Thirdly, blacks in urban
areas would be given ad-
ministrative autonomy and self-
government.

“The goal of this policy is to
give self-determination to each
national group,’’ van Tonder
said. ‘“‘No racial group should
be dominant over the others.”’

While stoping short of ad-
vocating a ‘‘one man-one vote”’
policy for blacks, van Tonder

did emphasize that the incum-
bent Prime Minister, P.W.
“Peter the Weapon’”’ Botha (a

COORS
Long-Neck

$9.52

EAST LEX

speech

moderate), ‘‘believes blacks
should participate in constitu-
tional reform.”

“South Africa has embarked
on political reform, a departure
from exclusive, white, political
reform. This policy gives
political control to the coloreds
and Asians,”’ he said.

“No other country has the
diversity in languages, culture,
and social customs as does
South Africa. These differences
cannot be solved by political
reform alone,” van Tonder
noted.

Continuing his discussion of
the racial issue, van Tonder
noted that since 1975, nearly $2
billion has been spent on hous-
ing for blacks, resulting in the
construction of an average 100
houses per day. In 1979, black
workers began receiving unem-
ployment compensation in
South Africa.

The whole reform movement,
however, has been placed in
jeopardy by the recent election
victories of the far-right whites,
van Tonder warned.

“The elections concern me
and should concern you. There
is a strong conservative at-
titude in South Africa, and the
election results show how hard
it would be to start on the road
of dynamic change — of evolu-
tion, not revolution. The support
the right attracted during the
elections shows there is a feel-
ing that Botha is selling out to
the blacks, just as Zimbabwe
was sold out.’ That scares the
whites.

“There are 20 million blacks
governed by 4.5 million whites.
the blacks have different cul-
tures and histories. They have
clearly distinct tribes and na-
tions with virtually no inter-
communications,”’ van Tonder
explained. ‘‘I cannot see ‘one
man-one vote’ coming to South
Africa because it will not work
in South Africa. I doubt it would
ever work in South Africa.
There is a high value placed on
ethnicity by the black tribes,
and political (much less social)
cooperation is unlikely.’

“You cannot compare South
Africa to the United States. It
must be seen in the context of
the African continent with the
problems of ethnicity in
Africa,” van Tonder said.

   

BUD
12-Pack

$4.95

    

   

 

  

OO ee eee

 

Co eee

Sessoms new

director of

alumni

Richard B. Sessoms,

 

j services, assistant director of

associate director of develop-
ment at Washington and Lee
University, has been named
director of alumni programs at
W&L, effective July 1.

Sessoms will also serve as ex-
ecutive secretary of the
Washington and Lee Alumni
Association, Inc.

He succeeds William C.
Washburn, who is retiring as
alumni secretary after 25 years
in that post. Washburn will be
moving to the university’s of-
fice of development where he
will serve as an associate direc-
tor and will be involved
primarily in the area of estate
planning.

Announcement of the
Sessoms appointment was
made jointly by Washington
and Lee President John D.
Wilson and G. Russell Ladd III
of Mobile, Ala., president of the
alumni board.

The announcement was made

Saturday, May 14, during the
_annual meeting of the W&L
alumni, which was held as part
of the reunion weekend ac-
tivities.

“We are quite pleased that
Dick Sessoms has agreed to ac-
cept this new appointment
within the university and are
confident that he will be as suc-
cessful as the director of alumni
programs as he was with his
development duties during the
final stages of our development
program,”’ Wilson said.

Sessoms joined the develop-
ment office staff at W&L in 1980.

A graduate of Hamden-
Sydney College, he was pre-
viously associate director of the
Virginia Foundation for In-
dependent Colleges from 1978
until 1980 and was for 15 years
prior to that an officer of the
Colonial Williamsburg Founda-
tion.

Formerly a writer for the
Roanoke Times, Sessoms was
sports information director and
athletic business manager at
Virginia Military Institute in
Lexington from 1960 until 1963
when he joined. the Colonial
Williamsburg staff as a press
bureau staff writer. He also
served as manager of broadcast

 

public relations, and director of
special events at Williamsburg.

Sessoms is currently presi-
dent of the Historic Lexington
Foundation and serves as facul-
ty adviser to the W&L chapter
of Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity. He is former presi-
dent and board member of the
Old Dominion Chapter of the
Public Relations Society of
America and a former member
of the Williamsburg-James City

 

 

County School Board.
SESW an EE + AA LTA BRIERE EN HUE @ OL MIL: PRR LO
Page 10, The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983

 

 

Alumni receive special

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity conferred Distinguished
Alumnus executive Adrian L.
McCardell of Baltimore, and at-
torney Sherwood Willing Wise
of Jackson, Miss., during the
annual spring alumni reunion
activities on the campus Satur-
day, May 14.

Selected by the board of
directors of the W&L Alumni
Association, the awards were
announced at the annual
meeting of the association in
Lee Chapel.

Foltz received his law degree
from Washington and Lee in
1940 and began a legal practice
which saw him edmitted to
practice before the bar in five
states and the U.S. Supreme
Court. During World War II, he
served with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, risng from
special agent to admiuistrative
assistant to the director.

Following the FBI years, he
entered the business world and
held executive positions in the
Borg-Warner Cory oration
before moving to the Campbell
Soup Company in 1953.

After retiring from the Camp-
bell Soup Company, Foltz
returned to the legal profession
when he joined the Philadelphia

law firm of Hepburn, Willcox,
Hamilton and Putnam.

McCardell graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1929 and
went on to earn his M.B.A.
degree from Harvard. His
career as a bank examiner was
interrupted by World War II in
which he served as a com-
mander in the U.S. Navy.

Following the war he joined
Seaboard National Bank of Nor-
folk as vice-president and, in
1956, he moved to the Charles-
ton, W.Va. Nationa] Bank in a
similar capacity. In 1959 he
became vice president of the
First National Bank of
Maryland, serving there suc-
cessively as vice president, ex-
ecutive vice president, presi-
dent, chairman of the board of
directors, and chairman of the
executive committee before his
retirement.

Wise received two degrees
from Washington and Lee/his
B.A. in 1932 and his law degree
in 1934.

 

A

~~

*

a

are ee

oe: a

distinction

Washington and Lee University President John D. Wilson presented Distinguished Alumni Awards to

 

three W&L graduates during the annual meeting of the W&L alumni. From left, Wilson; Edwin J. Foltz
of Gladwyne, Pa.; Adrian L. McCardell of Baltimore; and, Sherwood Willing Wise of Jackson, Miss.

(Cronin photo for W&L)

Ratline builds mental and and physical toughness

(continued from page 3)

ferently. We treat everybody
the same. If they can’t handle
it, if they don’t like it, if they’re
not willing to accept what we’re
doing, then they can go. I won’t
feel bad.”’

An inspiration for the rats is
the knowledge that for the next
three years, they will have the
opportunity to confer similar
hardships on the incoming rats.

Marks is in that position. One
year ago he was a rat. Now, he
is a cadre corporal; thus, it is
his duty to ‘‘deal with’’ the rats.

“IT guess by being on the
receiving end, the giving end
was not difficult, simply
because I’ve been through it
before’ he explained. ‘‘You feel
less sympathetic when giving
discipline. You feel what
they’re going through, but not to
the extent that you alter how
you go about it.

“It’s a lot easier to see things
you thought were pointless and
worthwhile now aren’t. You can
understand the rationale and
reasoning behind things you
couldn’t when you were the
recipient. There is a job, with
people who are charged with
disciplining and_ training
(them).

“I know what it did for me
and what it will do for them,
even though it doesn’t feel
good,’’ he said.

Even the current rats seem to
understand the importance of
the abuse they are subjecting
themselves to.

“You can talk about (the
ratline) all day,” said Simpson,
‘‘but you have to go through it to
realize what it really is. (Its)
goal is trying to build
character, trying to make you a

*

S2ABLeCC COOL « 7ORa* VAIO S (PYM

better person. I think it was suc-
cessful.

“I can’t think of any parts of
it that were unnecessary. It af-
fects you academically, but
that’s a part of it. It was hard at
first, adjusting, but you have to
get used to it. I’m _ proud
because I went through it.”’

Luke Sossi, a fourth classman
from New Windsor, concurred.
“IT have an older brother who
goes here, and he filled me in,
but you have to live it to under-
stand it.

‘*You never really had time to
think about it. You were con-
stantly on the move. It has
brought a stronger pride in
myself, and an appreciation of
what I can do. Looking back at
it, it was all necessary.” Sossi
said.

Even Dunahoe had problems
his rat year.

‘I didn’t know what was go-
ing on. I had never seen the
place; I was from Texas. I was
led around and bustled around
so much I didn’t know where I
was.

‘‘When I finally got a chance
to think about it that night, I
was ready to go. By the time I
had just fallen asleep, it seemed
they kicked in the doors to get
me up again. I didn’t have too
much chance to think about
anything. I didn’t like it,’’ he
remembered.

“I was happy to get through
the next day, I couldn’t fathom
four years.”’

One accusation that has often
been leveled at VMI concerns
hazing, the deliberate physical
abuse of a rat. Existence of this
practice in private has been ex-
pressed by some cadets, but,

according to policy, it is illegal.
A cadet was dismissed earlier
this year for shoving a rat
against a wall.

‘‘When I was a rat, they
couldn’t touch us, as far as hit-
ting us or anything,” explained
Dunahoe.

‘There has been a policy this
year that you don’t lay hands on
anybody in an aggressive sort
of sense. None of this, to my
knowledge, went on in an ‘I’m
going to beat you to death’
sense.”’

The major and most in-
timidating punishment for a rat
is to be called before the Rat
Disciplinary Committee.

“The RDC, as I saw it,” said
Dunahue, ‘‘was an obstacle the
rats could only overcome if they
banded together and worked
together. Our purpose wasn’t to
weed people out, or kick people
out, or get rid of people we don’t
like. It was to build them.”’

When a rat is charged with an
offense, like failure to know per-
tinent information or taking
another class’s privileges, he
receives a card to appear
before the RDC.

‘‘He comes up to the fifth
stoop,’ explained Dunahoe,
“and is told how to answer his
card. He then comes into the
room. I’m sitting there with the
vice-president and the sec-
retary and any other members
who are there. He can explain
his offense if he feels it is
justified.

“Invariably they are handed
penalties because they are
always guilty. The penalties
range from workouts to con-

finements. to penalty tours. He
then goes to a workout room
and given a workout from 15 to
30 minutes, depending on the
nature of the offense.”’

Given the intimidating role of
the RDC, the intimidating per-
sonality of Dunahoe is not sur-
prising.

“It’s a role you play,” he em-
phasized. ‘You don’t go home
and beat on your little sister. It
becomes part of your day walk-
ing around with a scowl on your
face looking mean. I don’t think
it was permanently changed
things as far as making me
mean.

“They are supposed to be
scared of you. My primary
function was to enforce the
rules and restrictions set down
by my class and approved by
the superintendent. The best
way to do that is by fear.

‘*T think we had a pretty good
RDC this year. I think many of
(the rats) were afraid of us.
That’s what we wanted. If they
messed up, we wanted them to
be petrified, and they were. We
had guys cry before they got in
the door.”’

Dunahoe remembered that
the corps ran into ‘‘some bugs
early in the year.” The bugs in-
cluded some changes in the
ratline by General Sam Walker,
VMI superintendent. Walker
prohibited ‘‘stereoing,’”’ where
rats have both ears shouted into
at the same time, and rigorous
exercise known as rat training
on the same days they have
physical education classes,
among other things.

“I think it’s all worked out
and we’ve got good communica-
tions going on now between us

Bete UP

4
(t¥ 4

and the administration.

‘What we gave out to these
guys this year is basically what
we went through. I can’t even
think of the changes. In fact, it
may be a little tougher what
we’re doing to the rats this year
from what they did to us. I know
this year we implemented a few
things to help them on their
study time, which was a big
pain for them. It was designed
to be a pain, but in the end it
helped them out,” said Dunahoe

But despite the  self-pro-
claimed successes of the
ratline, the esprit de corps it in-
spires, its uniqueness and ap-
parent harshness will constant-
ly keep it under public scrutiny.

“There’s a lot more people
watching us,” said Dunahoe,
“waiting for us to mess up. It
seems that all some people do is
just wait, wanting us to mess
up.

“One of the good things about
the rat system is that it is run by
cadets. The administration,
while providing guidance and
assistance and restrictions, in
certain cases, pretty much
stays out of it. The RDC is run
by us, the class system and
general committee, which en-
forces class privileges, is run by
us.
“I think this is one of the key
aspects, one of the best parts of
our system, Nobody who is en-
forcing it hasn’t gone through it
before, so we know exactly how
they feel, how it is to want to
quit. The first day I got here, I
was going to pack it in,’ he
said.

“It teaches you to keep on go-
ing, to hang in there despite the
odds.”’

Poe ote €
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983, Page 11

 

Lampost shows Christian signifigance at W&L

By KEITH E. GORETZKA
Special to the Phi

As this school year comes
quickly to an end, I would like to
write a few lines concerning my
experiences in the Christian
community at Washington and
Lee. Having been involved in
the life of that community for
the last four years, I approach
my task with both respect and
apprehension — respect for the
individual believers who have
enriched my life and uncertain-
ty as to whether I will be able to
communicate fully the depth
and power and reality of that
Holy Spirit which dwells in
those individual men and
women.

However, since my head is
spinning with good tales to tell,
let me press on.

The two Christian organiza-
tions at school with which I
have been related are the Inter-
Varsity Christian Fellowship
and Lexington’s Organization
for Religious Development
which owns and operates the
Lampost, a house for the
Washington and Lee under-
graduates with the goal of pro-
viding ‘‘a way for students to
come together, sharing, and
growing in their commitment to
Jesus Christ.” I have par-
ticipated in the fellowship of
worship and study in the com-
munity of Lexington through
Manly Memorial Baptist

Brock warns

U.S. Trade Representative
William E. Brock told a
Washington and Lee University
audience Thursday night that it
is ‘‘an act of national insanity to
let our educational system go
down as it has for 20 con-
secutive years.”

A 1953 graduate of
Washington and Lee, Brock was
the keynote speaker for the
university’s spring reunions.

Brock, who is President
Reagan’s personal represen-
tative in all matters concerning
foreign trade, prefaced his
remarks on what he sees as a
deterioration in the educational
system by praising the United
States ‘‘as the most productive
country in the histoty of
mankind by any measure what-
soever.”’

“Overall the American peo-
ple ... are approximately 65 per-
cent more productive than the
Japanese, who are viewed as
our toughest competitor,”’
Brock said. “We don’t talk
about that. We don’t think about
that ... We spend all our time
talking about how bad we are,
how inadequate we are.”’

But Brock added that if there
is one thing that will determine
where the United States is 20
years from now, it will be our
ability to turn the educational
system around.

“Better than 25 percent of our
young people are graduating
from high school as functional

~ 9 Tima nte anied 66Mane,

Church and outside of our city
at Christian fellowships at the
surrounding girls’ schools. With
an active Fellowship of Chris-
tian Athletes at Washington and
Lee and the support of believers
on faculty at both our university
and Virginia Military Institute
there has been no lack of Chris-
tian community for me these
last four years. Rather than
talk of organizational structure
or provide a chronology of my
growth as a believer in this fer-
tile community, let me instead
relate some of those ‘‘good
tales’’ mentioned above. The
New Testament is, among other
things, a compilation of the sus-
taining experiences of the early
church. Here are a few sustain-
ing experiences from my four
years in the Washington and
Lee Christian community.

One morning, not so very long
ago, I arose a little earlier than
usual to finish up some busy
work left undone the night
before. At exactly 7:30 the
sound of a guitar being soulfully
strummed reached my ears and
I knew that it was time to head
for the kitchen of the Lampost.
What I found in that room were
several sleepy-eyed students
who had gathered in their morn-
ing ritual of Psalm singing and
prayer. The numbers vary from
day to day (‘I thought Robert
was going to set the alarm,”
“But, Mo, I did set it. You just
overslept’’) and the singing has

of rising illiterac

cannot even cope with life. They
cannot read, write, or count.
Fifty-three percent of the
students surveyed in a recent
study could not write a letter. I
don’t understand what has hap-
pened to the righeous indigna-
tion of the people in this coun-
try.”

Brock said that the average
student coming out of school 10
years from now will have to be
“more flexible’ and ‘more
mentally competent in order to
cope with the changes in cir-
cumstance.”’

With the advent and increas-
ed use of robotics and com-
puters, said Brock, workers in
the future will ‘“‘be using their
where are we going to be if we
can’t get anybody to hold the
jobs?”’

“We can’t teach our children
science and math because we
don’t have science and math
teachers,’’ Brock added.
“That’s just a little example of
what we have let happen to
ourselves.”’

Brock suggested that those in
the audience, many of whom
were his former classmates,
consider a recent proposal that
businesses ‘‘adopt” schools as a
method of helping improve the
educational system.

Businesses could make
schools, from grammar schools
to colleges, ‘‘a project’? and
could “find a way to supple-
ment teachers’ salaries so we
get better quality teachers,”
Brock said.

a peculiar froggy quality to it.
Yet for all their foibles the
faithful do gather pretty
regularly to remember God and
request His Divine Assistance.
On this particular morning
there were thanks offered for
the beauty of the Valley and
petitioning for an uneventful
birth of a child. This ritual in
which I was participating was
eminently uneventful. And yet
for all of its insignificance the
memory of that morning time
holds an honored position in my
mind.

There is a Washington and
Lee graduate, now living in
Roanoke, whom I consider one
of those men of faith that so
very rarely graces a communi-
ty. Full of strength and wisdom
and abundant sensitivity. I was
deeply impressed by this last
quality, again, in what would
seem a most uneventful oc-
curence.

In a typical school day we
probably offend half a dozen
people in completely unknown
ways by a facial expression or
harried comment. At the end of
such a day my friend came to
me and asked my forgiveness
for what he percieved as an
unkindness on his part toward
me earlier in the day. I cannot
recall now what that unkind-
“ness may have been and most
probably had difficulty in
remembering it even at our
meeting. What I do carry in my

   
 

y in the USA

memory is the thought that this
man was so very sensitive to
my frightfully frail ego that he
came with apologies to me
when none were expected or re-
quired. Another set of in-
significance, yet one which I
will never forget.

Some weeks ago, I was
washing up my morning
breakfast dishes when surpris-
ed by a female voice behind me.
I turned to see a young Hollins
student, dressed for church less
two misplaced shoes, and most
desirous of helping me with the
dishes. Well, I didn’t need her
assistance but I was rather in-
trigued by her presence as it
turned out that she had slept in
my home, the Lampost, the
night before without my know-
ledge.

It seems that she had a rather
bad time of it with her date the
previous evening and had
shown up on our doorstep at 2
a.m., suitcase in hand, in need
of a place to stay. One of the
brothers just happened to be up
typing a paper and he found her
an unoccupied bedroom for the
night.

After listening to her story,
finding her lost shoes, and see-
ing her on her way, I paused to
consider this third, uneventful
experience. Girls have ‘‘a bad
time of it” here in Lexington
more often than I care to admit
and putting up a friend for the
night is not all that uncommon

in a college town. What did
strike was that I had to jog my
memory for a minute before
remembering the name of that
particular girl when I turned to
see her in the kitchen. It struck
me that a girl to whom I had to
provide the most rudimentary
instructions in navigating the
complex road system of Lex-
ington the next morning should
try to find the Lampost at two in
the morning the previous night.

These facts shouldn’t have
seemed uncommon to me.
Christians have been offering
sanctuary to the world-weary
for centuries. As the girl turned
the corner and left my sight I
decided that, indeed, an event
had occurred, The compassion
of the Risen Lord had been ex-
perienced by yet another so-
journer.

We can read the Holy Scrip-
tures and be inspired by the
stories related therein. In look-
ing back upon my memories of
the Christian community at
Washington and Lee, I realize
that the Spirit which dwelt in
the hearts of those early
believers is alive and well this
very day at our university.

An old Southern adage says
that once ‘“‘Fear knocked at the
door. Faith answered. There
was no one there.” I have no
fear that the Christian com-
munity at Washington and Lee
will continue so long as men and
women dare to be insignificant.

U.S. Trade Representative William E. Brock (center) talks with a fellow Washington and Lee alum-

nus during a reception following Ambassador Brock’s keynote address for W&L’s spring alumni reun-

ions. (Cronin photo for W&L)

 

Hamric & Sheridan

JEWELERS

Watches

and
Jewelry Repairs

IGIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Hand Engraving & Class Rings

 

 

11 W. Nelson 463-2022

For your extra
pieces of furniture.

‘
!
!
'

 

ae

 

The Shop for
PAPPAGALLO

23 NORTH MAIN STREET

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
463-5986
Ce

on AR Ah RS AI
 

 

Page 12, The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1983

Junior Angus McBryde qualified for the NCAA

  

5 ae, Pies pars .
Division III

Championships by virtue of his record-breaking time in the 1500 at
the Cavalier Classic. McBryde is shown here in a typical position,
lunging to break the tape. (Phi photo by Ken Ries)

McBryde breaks records
en route to NCAAs

With a record-setting perfor-
mance in Charlottesville last
weekend, Washington and Lee
track standout Angus McBryde
qualified to compete in the
NCAA Division III Champion-
ships set for May 23-28 at North
Central College near Chicago,
Illinois.

McBryde, a junior from
Charlotte, N.C., will participate
in the 1500-meter competition
which includes trials on Thurs-
day the 26th and finals on Satur-
day. The top 14 runners in the
trials will advance to the finals.

McBryde qualified for the
NCAA meet by turning in a 3-
minute, 53.6-second time last
Sunday afternoon in the third
annual ‘Cavalier Classic’’ held
at the University of Virginia
and sponsored by Blue
Cross/Blue Shield. In addition
to earning him the trip to the
NCAA meet, the performance
shattered the W&L_ school
record of 3:59.5 set in 1978 by
Richard Bird.

McBryde broke one other
school record at the Classic. On
Saturday he clocked in at 14
minutes, 54.1 seconds in the
5000-meter race to eclipse the
15:11.7 standard he had set
April 9 in Norfolk. McBryde
now holds three W&L marks,
the third one a 9:01 in the 3000-
meter run (set in January,
1983).

He becomes the third General
to compete in the NCAA Divi-
sion III Championships during
the meet’s 10-year history.
Sprinter Phifer Harris and high
jumper Tony Perry par-

ticipated in the 1974 event.
Perry appeared again in 1975.

McBryde holds three W&L
letters in track and two in cross
country. He won the 1500 and
5000 races at the 1983 ODAC
Outdoor Championships on
April 30 and the 1500 at the 1982
ODAC meet. He placed second
in the ODAC cross country
championships last fall.

He will serve as cross country
captain this coming season with
Charlie Alcorn, and next year

as track captain with Chris

Ives.

Sports
Bees sting Generals 14-12

By JOHN HARRISON
Phi Sports Writer

A bit of lacrosse history was
made at the University of
Baltimore Saturday, as _ the
Bees scored four goals in the
opening three and a_ half
minutes in route to a 14-12 vic-
tory over Washington and Lee.

The Generals’ loss ended
their first losing season (5-7)
since 1969, when W&L was 1-8.
Between then and this season,
W&L compiled a winning per-
centage of better than 70 per-
cent with a total of 133 victories.

The game also was the last
for Baltimore’s intercollegiate
program. The university decid-
ed to give up athletics after this
season.

W&L coach Jack Emmer ex-
pected Baltimore to start its
last game ever with great inten-
sity, but he was still disap-
pointed that his team was over-
whelmed in the early going.

‘“‘We knew that it would be

tough to match their emotional
level,’”’ Emmer said. ‘They
played flawlessly for three
quarters, like they were putting
on a clinic. They made us look
like we weren’t ready to play.”

Chuck Muir scored his game-
high five goals and Greg Man-
ley fired in three more during
the first three quarters to give
the Bees leads of 10-3 at the half
and 13-6 at the end of the third
quarter. John Doub put in
W&L’s first two goals.

Baltimore built its big lead in
spite of being outshot, 26-21, in
the first half, with goalie Vinnie
Pfeiffer collecting 14 saves.

Remarked Emmer, “Their
goalie turned out to be the dif-
ference for them. He played ex-
ceptionally well. But we helped
him by shooting a lot to his stick
side.”’

W&L rebounded in the fourth
quarter with a 6-1 charge that
included four extra-man goals.
Jeff Mason had two goals and
Geoff Wood notched his team-

 

 

leading 28th goal and 12th assist
in the rally. Doub and Joe
Seifert tallied in the last
minute. Doub’s gave him 17 for
the year, second on the team to
Wood.

“We didn’t accomplish our
goal of finishing .500, which is
kind of blemish for us,’’ said
Enimer, “but Baltimore was

tough.”

Emmer described the re-
cruits who have accepted ad-
mission to the school as being
“good, but not great. It’s a
larger quantity this year. We
have about four to five at-
tackmen, three to four middies,
three to four defensemen and a
goalie.”

He added that next year’s
schedule will include Navy,
Maryland-Baltimore County,
Duke, Virginia, Towson State,
Loyola of Baltimore, Delaware,
Maryland, and William and
Mary.

 

 

 

Time Out....

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

Friday night American
capitalism and stupidity (often
identical twins, it seems) make
an appearance in (where else? )
Las Vegas with boxing’s bash,
courtesy Champion Don “Just
out to make a buck”’ King and a
cast of thousands. To begin
with, the sport — and I use the
term only as a last resort — is
ludicrous. If they want a real
challenge, they might as well
use clubs; and why not fight to
the death? Oh, I guess they do
that already. But back to capi-
talism. It’s only in America
where you can grow up to earn
millions while at the same time
getting your head pounded in.

But the amount of money is
another story. The question in
my mindis: If they’re really not
concerned over the money
aspect of the championship
itself; why not have Larry
Holmes (current WBC cham-
pion) fight Michael Dokes (cur-
rent WBA champion) matched
up to decide the undisputed
champion rather than the two
continually fighting lesser con-
tenders? Oh, but then there’d be
no gimmick. Heaven forbid, for
then what would Mr. King do?
The extravaganza in Vegas
with all its trappings just leaves
a bad taste in my mouth.
Somehow the amateur sport
that takes place every four
years at the Olympics has
become the professional show

 

Four named All-Conference

Senior outfielder Chris
Cavalline heads a list of four
Washington and Lee baseball
standouts who received All-
Conference honors Tuesday,
May 10 from the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. Cavalline
earned a spot on the 12-man All-
Conference first team, while
senior shortstop Jody Harris,
senior outfielder Jim Daly, and
sophomore pitcher Billy White
were named to the 11-man se-
cond team.

“Chris, Jody, and Jim played
some of the best baseball Smith
Field has seen in quite a while,”
states second-year head coach
Jim Murdock. “Chris is pro-
bably the best four-year per-
former W&L’s ever had; Jody
was unmatched as a leader and
spark plug, and Jim was one of
our more confident performers.
Billy, meanwhile, is building a

reputation as one of W&L’s best
pitchers ever.”

W&L’s leader at the plate this
season, Cavalline compiled a
team-high .407 batting average,
35 hits, 25r atted-in, and 25
runs-scored. His hit total includ-
ed nine doubles, two triples, and
a homerun.

A four-year starter and letter-
man, Cavalline’s career
statistics feature a .364 batting
average, 123 hits, 64 RBIs, and
82 runs-scored in 94 total
games. He is only the second
General to receive first-team
baseball honors in the con-
ference’s seven-year history

(Thad Ellis earned the award in
1980).
Harris, who served with

Cavalline as team captain this
season, was W&L’s chief thief
with 15 stolen bases in 16 at-
tempts. He also batted .256, lac-

ed 23 hits, and scored 23 runs.
During his four-year career he
pilfered 38 bases, batted .260,
collected 78 hits, and scored 65
runs in 87 games.

Daly posted a .297 batting
average this spring on 27 hits.
He also scored 20 runs and
drove in 14. His three-year
career statistics include a .292
batting average, 61 hits, and 41
runs-scored in 64 games.

Righthander White was
leader on the mound for a se-
cond straight season. He com-
piled a 5-2 record and. 3.86
earned-run average on 53.7 in-
nings pitched in nine ap-
pearancés. He struck out 34 bat-
ters. White’s two-year ledger
features a 6-5 record and 3.77
ERA on 98 innings pitched in 19
appearances. He has 62 career
strikeouts.

 

that plays wherever you can
find a large screen and have $20
to spare...

...[n other news of joy, it just
warms my heart to hear that
the model student-athlete Clyde
Drexler has decided to forego
hardship and make _ himself
available for the NBA draft. I
guess the University of Houston
wasn’t paying him enough...For
all you Herschel Walker fans,
the way the Generals are run-
ning their prized possession,
one sees the possibility of Earl
Campbell-type burnout. But
hey, he’s getting paid for it,
right?...

..The Prince has emerged
from the Royal Chamber to
issue his latest prociamation:
He will atterapt to continue his
questionable success in the field
of the equine. In this Saturday’s
Preakness the word is, ‘‘Smart
bettors will stick with Sunny’s
Halo, but watch out for Current
Hope and maybe even Marfa.
(How about Edmonton?)’’ In
the stupidity festival in Vegas,
the Parkway Prophet sees it
this way: ‘Holmes vs. Withers-
poon will be a good one, Holmes
by decision.” In the other clash
of the dunces the word from the
Garden State is, ‘“There’ll be a
knockout in this one. My
money’s on Weaver.”’ And he
adds that in the prelim, ‘‘Snipes
is dangerous. Page had better
be on his guard.’’ The Prince
concludes the Lakers will
repeat in the NBA Finals...
“But watch out for Edmon-
ne” cs

...1 leave you with this: when
Pete Rose breaks Ty Cobb’s all-
time hit record, he’ll be ready to
face his biggest challenge,
revealing to the baseball public
his real age, 87....

 

 
 

 

Pe sit y ,
WASHINGTON & LEE ERSITY.

EACELS

EP ta 5

 

Rg , :
L iy y “ Z- i ee 4
Ke) it 1 — 3
+ et "i
rs Me ies
: , 4
a ‘ i
# fy ty ;
*. ae
. Spe, bes og A
f fae sae 4

 

     
 

  

A Journal of Interdisciplinary Thought

Focus: Technology and issues of the future

Focus, the Interdisciplinary
Symposium, is proud to present
its spring program. Our topic is
technology and issues of the
future. This subject could hard-
ly be more current and impor-
tant. Literature on the subject
is mushrooming. Congress has
formed a committee on science
and technology. Scientific and
medical journals bulge with the
latest innovations. The courts
struggle to deal with the in-
creasing technical complexity

of litigation. Philosophers and
clergy ponder the moral and
ethical dimensions of tech-
nological change. All of the 1984
presidential candidates have
addressed the issue of the im-
pact of new technology on the
American economy and way of
life. One, Senator Hart, made
technology and its promise a
centerpiece of his announce-
ment speech, having his words
broadcast by satellite over the
Cable News Network. Most im-

portantly, man’s greatest
technological innovation,
nuclear power, threatens to
take from us our joy and our
children and our very lives.
This, the spring issue of
Excelsior, is devoted to the
topic of technology and issues of
the future. Of course, we have
printed replies to the winter
issue. In addition, Focus will
present, on May 23, 1983, at 7:30.
p.m. in room 327 of the Com-
merce School, a lecture/discus-

sion on our topic. Mr. Cabell
Brand, of Salem, is our speaker.
Mr. Brand, president and CEO
of Stuart McGuire Inc., has had
a keen interest in issues of the
future for several years. He was
a key participant in ‘The
Woodland’s Conference on the
Future and the Private Sector.”’
He has aiso had extensive com-
munication with congressman
Albert Gore of the above-
mentioned House committee on
science and technology. Listed

The new evolution of man

by Rob Kurek

Man has always. been
somewhat nomadic in nature;
to deny that fact is to deny that
man has a variety of inherent
instincts that have always im-
plored him to ‘cross the next
ocean”’ or to “‘look over the next
hill.” Man is now at an historic
landmark; there are no more
‘“‘wild wests’” to be tamed or
African jungles to penetrate.
Even the frigid poles are now
marked by man’s presence;
without a doubt, man’s ultimate
manifast destiny has been
fulfilled. Our planet Earth, in
short, has become a small place
indeed. The history of civiliza-
tion is one of various periods of
expansion; a deadend on Earth
has now been reached.

There remains of course one
last frontier beyond our own
planet — that of space. What
was seen as impossible only 20
years ago is now in the realm of
the thinkable. The reality of the
space shuttle is already the first
building-block toward giving
man an even more permanent
‘beach head”’ in space. Perma-
nent space stations and space
colonization are now no longer
confined to the world of science
fiction.

A recent article in Omni
magazine entitled ‘‘Life after
Liftoff,” explains how Soviet
and American space scientists
are now engineering the next
giant step in evolution. A new
infant science all its own, cailed
bioastronautics, has evolved,
trom this new interest. Speci-
fically, Bioastronautics, is the
study of life in space. It seeks to

answer questions about such
things as how to handle medical
emergencies in zero g, and, on
an even larger scale, the
feasibility of establishing an
‘Earth-like microcosm in
space, an artifical oasis that

will support microbes, plants,
animals and man.’”!

This futuristic study is even
more remarkable in light of

' problems we still face here on

Earth. This research goes on
despite a nuclear arms race
between the superpowers
—arms race that now includes
the possibility of using laser
beams as weapons in space.
One cannot avoid the potential
yuestion of how much progress
could be made into the peaceful
expansion into space if the
superpowers could somehow
move into a true state of
peaceful co-existence with each
other. Imagine the progress

that could result from the com-
bining of Soviet and American
minds. One must add that com-
petition—healthy competition—
is not such a bad thing. In look-.
ing at history, the exploration of
the New World was spurred on
by the competitiveness of
England, Spain, Portugal,
France, and Holland. Yet if we
use space merely as another-
means of gaining military
superiority over our rivals, then
we have effectively cut off our
last hope of a frontier that
should remain weapons free for
the sake of mankind. One is
tempted, then, to say that the
Soviet Union and the United
States share too many dif-
ferences politically and
culturally to ever reach a state
of true peaceful coexistence.
Yet if one were to have told an
Englishman 500 years ago that
his nation would one day live
peacefully with and even
become an ally of France, he
would have claimed your pro-

in ‘‘Who’s Who in America”’ and
“Who’s Who in American
Politics,” Mr. Brand’s exper-
tise should lend much to our
spring program.

This spring’s program, and
our activities to date this year,
show what Focus should be in
the off-years between our major
symposiums. The first major
interdisciplinary symposium is
to take place in the spring of
1986.

position to be preposterous. in
more modern terms, following
the Korean War, who would
have guessed that China and the
United States would be on the
terms that they are now?

This. then, is the perspective
from which we must approach
our next step in evolution; to do
otherwise is to demonstrate
that, at least mentally, we have
not evolved far from our ag-
gressive and warlike ancestors
of a few thousand years ago. We
should in no way allow the in-
credible amount of progress
that has already been made in
space exploration to tarnish, for
to do so would only be to the
detriment of mankind as a
whole.

1. Engler, Nick and Donna,
‘Life After Lift Off,’’ Omni,
May 1983, p. 108-133.
Page 2, The Excelsior, May 20, 1983

 

Two cheers for Tory democracy

by Markham Shaw Pyle

I am not a member of any
organized political party: I’m a
Democrat. Yet I am here reply-
ing to Mr. Bouquet’s article in
the last issue excoriating the
GOP as lacking.in compassion.
I am replying to it because it is
not a partisan, but a_philo-
sophical, squabble. He is not at-
tacking Republicans as such,
but what are called conser-
vatives (i.e., what are XIXth
century Lockean Liberals). And
I are such an animal, like many
Democrats (just as there are
‘liberal’ Republicans with
whom Mr. Bouquet would
doubtless be in substantial
agreement). And this attack on
the classic Liberal position
seems to me literally ill-
founded. Not necessarily
wrong, just grounded on a
variety of assumptions that
need an examination which
they have so far escaped. Let us
then examine them, kick their
tires as it were, before we buy.

Mr. Bouquet begins by asking
how many of the beneficiaries
of the Reagan tax cuts would be
willing to give some back to the
poor who are harmed by these
tax cuts. Several assumptions
here need examination. The
first which impresses itself
upon me is the assumption that
the poor are being hurt by these
tax cuts; that somehow the

children’s meat is being thrown
to the dogs — or fat cats. What

would it take for this to be true?
Well, it could happen if there
were a finite supply of money,
so that government expen-
ditures were a sort of zero sum
game and one man’s gain were
of necessity another’s loss. You
will see that this does not
describe the economy in this or
any land. He goes on to decry
the spirit in which the rich have
taken their tax breaks. Aside
from the vexing question of
where rich begins (because
there’re a lot of people enjoying

this tax relief that would con-
sider themselves middle class, )

we should-ask what possible
point there is to political
economy in the intention of the
investor? Moral considerations
keep any Kantian awake ’til all
hours; they are the Church’s
main concern; but the
statesman asks only what effect
is produced by various impulses
in the populace, that he may
choose the impulse likeliest to
produce the consequences
demanded by the national need.
Smith pointed out some time
back that it is self-interest that
serves to obtain from fallen
man the social cooperation that
is freely given out of love in the
Heavens. And Mr. Bouquet
dismisses the economic pro-
grams of the administration
—bipartisan support and all
—with the pejorative label
‘trickle-down.’ But the question
is, is it reasonable? And it

EXCELSIOR
The Journal of

FOCUS

 

Chris Bouquet .
Chris Bouquet, . . .

Chris Fulton......
Steve Keros.......

Special thanks to Ring-tum Phi editor
Bill Roberts, and David W. Johnston

 

 

Sweueees Chairman

. Spring Co-editor

_... Spring Co-editor

........ Focus Staff

Digs Ra

Warn

Mg a

 

 

seems to me that it is. To leave
monies in private hands, where
those private hands have been
shown likely so to invest or
dispose of these monies that
economic growth is stimulated,
and to then reap a tax harvest
from that growth, does not
strike me as stark unreason.
Rather the reverse. And the
same applies to the sensitive.
subject of crowding out in the
money markets. To plunge the
public finance into debt is folly
where the monies raised are
directed to programs in the
state which there is no cause to
hope will repay the debt in
economic growth ripe for taxa-
tion. That is
description of ‘entitlement’ pro-
grams. But where the debt is of-
fered to purchase capital goods,

a reasonable

‘the manufacture and operation

of which redound to promotion
of real economic expansion, the
investment may be regarded as
wholly sound. Mr. Bouquet may
be startled to hear such a
Keynesian model of defense
purchasing, but the astonish-
ment will wear off; and when it
does, a consideration of the
argument on its merits will, it is
to be hoped, show the firmness
of this foundation as contrasted
with teh fundamental assump-
tions of the conventional
wisdom.

On the subject of defense pro-
per, I should like to know why
the President’s pronounce-
ments are considered
dangerous. Is it in a Socratic
sense, to the extent that truth is
dangerous? Is a statement of

military realities hysteric
demagoguery? What evidences
are there that the nuclear
freeze movement, composed
mainly it seems of those to
whom Lenin habitually referred
to as ‘useful fools,’ is the fault or
offspring of President Reagan’s
statements of fact? And, yes, I
am assuming the truth of those
statements. Journalism in this
country having finally resolved
itself into theft followed by
publication, you and I and the
KGB can verify the alleged
military strength of the nation
over breakfast with the morn-
ing paper. I confess myself at a
loss to follow Mr. Bouquet in his
analysis.

The major philosophical dif-
ference between us Liberals

(continued on page 4)

A quick,honest word on honor

by Christopher Fulton

Unlocked buildings and self-
scheduled exams were cited as
the benefits of the honor system
by Mr. Tom Connors in the last
issue of Excelsior. Mr. Chris
Bouquet worried about stealing
pens or inadvertantly purjuring
himself. As for the merits of the
Honor system, I think we are
missing the boat with such
discussion. Nobody would say
that the purpose of the honor
system is an always-open Com-
merce School or library. The
purpose of the honor system is,
quite simply, to promote honor.
I believe that it succeeds. Yes, I
am _ too-well aware that the
spirit of the honor system is

Dear Readers,

I have several, somewhat un-
connected, things to say about
this issue of Excelsior, and
Focus in general. First, thank
you for your interest in
Excelsior and Focus. Secondly,
I would like to thank the
Publications Board for their
generous financial support for
this, the fourth issue of
Excelsior. Their vote to assist
this important co-curricular
publication is exactly the type
of intra-university support that
Focus needs. This university
has made a committment to
Focus. The 1981 University
Council White Paper on Focus
was the first step. Subsequent
Executive Committee votes for
funding Focus amplified and
deepened this committment. As
chairman this year I have work-
ed long hours, often alone, to
fulfill this university’s committ-
ment to what I feel is a good
idea: Focus, the Interdiscipli-

nary Symposium. I recently
sent a letter to the faculty ask-

often acutely bent and frequent-
ly broken without punishment.
There is no need to cite ex-
amples. The fact is that it hap-
pens.

The honor system at W&L is
successful because it allows an
honest student to remain
honest. People who want (or
need) to cheat will do so. But
without an honor system an
honest, hardworking student
would be hounded by his peers
for help. Furthermore he might
feel forced to cheat in order to
keep up. Why be left behind so
easily? And what better com-
fort it would be than to know
that ‘‘everyone else’ was doing
it too? At W&L the pressures to
give or receive unacknowledg-
ed aid are not overwhelming.

ing for ideas and support for
this university committment.
Out of over 175 faculty
members, two replied, one of
which was our outstanding and
extremely kind President, Dr.
John Wilson. Let me say I am
deeply grateful for the support I
have received. However, it is
time for the university as a
whole to make a decision about
Focus. One person can keep an
idea alive but it will take the
whole university to make it
work well. Is Washington and
Lee going to renege on its com-
mittment to Focus or is it going
to support Focus? Do we quit or
go ahead? I say we go ahead not
only because I care about this
idea but also because I care
about the university. I believe
Focus is a plus for W&L. Can
anyone argue that co-curricular
activity and lively debate is a
detriment to the university? I
do not understand why, with all
the talk about an intellectual
vacuum at W&L, there has not
been more support for an idea

An honest student is not driven

to dishonesty by the environ-

ment here. Furthermore, the
honor system, along with fear of
punishment, is an effective
deterrent to the temptation of
writing Chebyshev’s inequality
on one’s foot before a stats test.
The honor system forces harder
work, in order to honestly
remember, for example, the
correct titles of Hopkin’s son-
nets.

In short, the honor system is a
blessing for the honest student
and a risk for the dishonest one.
Most of us prefer to be honest
and are willing to accept honest
failure. The honor system helps
us steer an honest course. And
yes, I do like the luxury of self-
scheduled exams as well.

Letter from the chairman

that encourages co-curricular
activities, that is a forum for
the free exchange of ideas.
Enough said on that point —
allow me to go ahead with
another word of thanks. I would
like to thank all the people who
have made contributions to the
Excelsior this year. I especially
want to thank Markham Pyle
for his reply to my article
“Compassion and the Re-
publican Party.’’ In the interest
of allowing him his fair say, I
will not respond here to his
criticisms of the positions I
took. Suffice it to say that we
both start with differing
assumptions and that he has
somewhat distorted my posi-
tion. I intend:to respond in next
week’s Phi, the last of the
school year. Once again, thank
you for your interest. I wish all
of our readers the best of sum-
mers possible.

Sincerely,
Chris Bouquet

Chairman of Focus
The Excelsior, May 20, 1983, Page 3

 

 

Soviet technological

subterfuge

Dave Johnston

As President Reagan pointed
our when he proposed the ‘‘Star
Wars’’ defense system,
technology is the weapon of the
future. Therefore, if the United
Sates is to stay militarily (and
at the same time economically )
ahead of the Soviet Union a
number of things must be done.
On the short term we have to
restrict the export of our
technology, and we also have to
start a long term revitalization
of the education system that
helped produce our technology.

The United States, because of
“yankee ingenuity,’ has been
at the forefront of the world’s
technological development ever
since the industrial revolution
crossed the Atlantic. Our strong
economy and innovation pro-
duced the world’s best railways
and such revolutionary new
ideas as the factory assembly
line.

More recently we have
developed the atom bomb, air
plane and silicon chip, all of
which are (or will be) potent
weapons. The United States is
currently at the forefront of the
race to develop new computer
technology, with a number of
our allies, most notably the
Japanese, close behind. How-
ever, the Soviets and other com-
munist powers have been able
to stay in the race because we
have let them. High-tech com-
puters are routinely sent to
Russia, and although these
computers can be used for
peaceful purposes, they can
also be used to create new
weapons and technical ad-
vances. A high-tech computer
sold to a Soviet ‘‘trade com-
pany” is now being used to
design the missiles that may

someday lay waste to the
United States.

In order to prevent further
mistakes like this from happen-
ing a number of steps must be
taken to stop American
technology from building Rus-
sian missiles. First, and most
importantly, commerce in
sophisticated computers and
software should be stopped en-
tirely. We are quite literally
selling our enemies the means
to design our destruction.

This should not include just
computers and other sophis-
ticated electronics, it should in-
clude all _ state-of-the-art
machinery. The Russians quite
simply cannot keep up with us
in many areas. When building
their natural gas _pipline,
American technology was
essential to their success. By
preventing the use of American
technology in that and similar
projects we could deal them a
staggering blow.

What we do not sell the Rus-
sians they steal. As former
Soviet Ambassador to the
United Nations Arkady Shev-
chenko stressed in his speech
here last month, the Soviets
have an incredible spy and es-
pionage ring operating in the
United States, one that is con-
centrating on stealing our high-
tech secrets and investigating
our current research and
development. In order to pre-
vent the Russians from stealing
high-tech developments we
have to demand that our
businesses and research labs be
more careful with de-
velopments and secrets. Shev-
chenko laughed at how easy it
was for Soviet spies to steal
secrets, so this must be stopped.

Another way to cut down on
the number of secrets stolen

‘SUCH

aE
MN g
oQsS

eet
Say

| LV IBF OWRD TRESS, SIM DICATT

    

ee

ee

h FAISE, VILE, BASE, MALICIOUS, DEFAMATORY SLANDER, MONSIEUR! WHAT COOKIES?

 

would be to restrict the number
of Russian ‘‘diplomats”’ allowed
in the United States. Shev-
chenko said that of the people
on his UN mission staff only a
small minority were real

diplomats, that the rest were.

KGB spies. He also said that
many of the diplomats also
worked for the KGB. By cutting
the Soviet diplomacy staffs
back we may be able to cut
down on the number of spies
operating in the United States.

All of that can, and should, be
done immediately. Another
change that must be made, one
that will take much longer, is
the revitalization of our educa-
tion system. The calibre of
students graduating from our
high schools and universities is
plummetting. This is partly
because the schools do not de-
mand the students to do what
was once mandatory, and the
quality of the teaching staff is
declining. A ‘“‘wave of mediocri-
ty”’ grips the education system,
and this is reflected by the peo-
ple leaving it.

To ABM or not to ABM

By Steve Keros

Several weeks ago President
Reagan announced his intention
to mobilize American tech-
nological know-how in an effort
to produce a feasible anti-
ballistic missile defense
system. Reagan’s speech set off
a flurry of protests in the scien-
tific and political arena. Scien-
tists as a whole were mainly
very skeptical; politicians and
the media wondered aloud
about the advisability of a
system that if effective, would
probably shake the foundations
of the principle of deterrence,
which we now depend on to keep
the superpowers from  an-
nihilating and irradiating the
globe. Yet it may not be that
bad of an idea, but for a big
reason that President Reagan
may not have thought of.

Thoughts of pitched battles in
space have filled the minds of

many. But basically, up until
now, these ideas have only
come to life in Hollywood.
President Reagan, however,
proposes that the United States
engage in a concerted effort to
develop a workable Anti-
Ballistic Missile (ABM)
system. Yet the idea of an effec-
tive ballistic missile defense
faces serious technological
hurdles that will be very dif-
ficult to overcome.

A laser (light amplification
by the stimulated emission of
radiation) or a particle beam
weapon system would have a
great advantage over a conven-
tional ABM system in that they
would be very quick, have no
bad side effects, could switch
rapidly from target to target,
and because these beams travel
at the speed of light, could be
aimed directly at the target,
thus obviating the need to
calculate trajectory. But this is

basically where the advantages
end. Lasers, to be really effec-
tive, must operate in the
vacuum of space. Particle
beam weapons on the other
hand, would be most effective in
the atmosphere. Both lasers
and particle beams begin to lose
their strength over long
distances, through the effects of
‘thermal blooming’’ (defocus-
ing), absorbtion by other
molecules in the beam’s path,
and the gradual scattering of
the beam. Lasers, for example,
lose up to four fifths of their
energy after traveling only two
miles in the atmosphere. And
for both particle beam guns and
lasers, enough energy to inflict
fatal damage on an ap-
proaching missile cannot be
achieved until the warhead is
only a short distance away
(several kilometers). In other
words, a laser satellite could
not shoot down an enemy

Although there is not any
quick-fix for our education
system, there are a number of
steps that could be taken. First,
it is criminal that a good mind
should be wasted because of
money. For the first time a
qualified student may be unable
to attend a good college because
of financial difficulties. If
outstanding students from
weaker economic backgrounds
are to afford a college education
the current trend of less finan-
cial aid by the government has
to be stopped, otherwise our
future scientists and leaders
will be pushing brooms and
cooking hamburgers at
McDonalds.

The quality of our teachers,
expecially in public schools, has
to be improved. A major factor
in the shortage of good teachers
is the low wages teachers make.
Many people who might enter
teaching are lured to the
private sector by higher wages,
leaving less qualified people to
teach the scientists. and

missile until it is very close.
Thus the difficulty of laser
satellites handling a huge salvo
of inter-continental ballistic
missiles (ICBMs) is readily ap-
parent.

An ABM system would also
suffer in an encounter with an
ICBM attack in that it could be
easily overwhelmed. A laser or
a particle beam ABM system
would have to detect an enemy
attack, distinguish individual
targets from decoys, lock on to
a specific missile, fire, deter-
mine whether a hit was scored,
(if the target was hit), deter-
mine whether it knocked the
ICBM out, and then locate new
targets. In a full scale attack,
Kosta Tspsis estimates that in-
dividual laser satellites would
have somewhere in the ballpark
of 1.5 seconds for each missile
to calculate all that informa-
tion. And besides decoys,
ICBMs could be fitted with ef-

teachers of the future. If our
schools are to be staffed by
competent teachers they must
be paid as the highly trained
professionals they are. In some
districts janitors make more
than starting teachers, a fact
which is ludicrous.

For nearly a century now the
United States has been the
world’s supreme economic and
‘military power, but this once
secure position is being
threatened by countries follow-
ing our example and copying
our developments. If we are to
remain secure and comfortable
we have to change our ways.
Developments and innovations
costing millions cannot be sold
to a country devoted to our
destruction, and our education
system, once the best in the
world, cannot be allowed to sink
into the doldrums of apathy and
mediocrity it threatens to.
Unless we keep our secrets
secret and elevate a good
education to the position of
esteem it once held we might as
well study Russian instead of
English.

fective countermeasures like
covering the ICBM with mir-
rors to deflect laser beams. In
addition, there is no guarantee
that this kind of defense would
be 100 percent effective. If even
a few MIRVed missiles slipped
through, the damage inflicted
would be tremendous.

Lasers and particle beams
would operate against incoming
rockets by burning a hole into
the missile’s vitals, knocking it
off course. Thus these weapons
must have pinpoint accuracy to
be effective. Particle beam
weapons are extremely heavy,
and can be only deployed on the
ground or in ships. These ABM
weapons would be most effec-
tive during an ICBMs boost
phase, which occurs right after
launching, when the ICBM can-
not take evasive action. The
total time that enemy missiles
can be effectively fired upon

(contiiued on page 4)

 

 
Page 4, The Excelsior, May 20, 1983

 

The smoking gun

By Les Clark

“Look at all the awful things
technology has done to us! It’s
polluted our air, land and
water, and it’s killing off all
sorts of animal and insect life!”’

“Technology is making peo-
ple lazy — look at how much
time people are spending glued
to their TVs! And just think how
much less effort it takes for us
to carry out the tasks of every-
day life!”’

“Technology is a_ social
scourge! These days not only
are our kids subject to powerful

| Technology and the economy:
A view from Economics 120

 

By Christopher Fulton

These days it is fashionable to
criticize modern technology for
our modern economic and en-
vironmental ills. Continued
economic and _ technological
growth, many believe, will ex-
ceed the limits of the environ-
ment precipitating a drastic,
not-good change in civilization.
We are on the verge, the argu-
ment goes, of using up our
resources, over populating the
globe with respect to food supp-
ly, and over-polluting our en-
vironment. Well, that is more or
less what I, along with the ad-
| vocates of zero Economic

Growth (ZEG), believed until
recently: that continued growth
would lead to
trophe.

The fact of the matter is that
we may never reach these
limits thanks to technology and
the good ol’ free enterprise
system. ZEG is not a realistic
policy. Resources are not
limited. As a resource becomes
scarce, its price will rise caus-
ing a number of things to hap-
pen. First, current consumption
will decrease (the principle of
supply and demand here). Se-
cond, scarcity stimulates ex-
ploration. William Baumol and
Wallace Oates point out that as
a resource is used up new ex-
vloration keeps the total supply
of a natural resource somewhat
constant.' It is no accident for
j example that the discovery u
oil in Mexico and in the British
North Sea coincided with the
OPEC embargo of 1973. Third,
as the price of a resource rises,
it becomes profitable to extract
less easily accessible resources
— again I cite North Sea Oil as
well as Alaskan oil. Further-
more lower grades of ores and
other resources become ex-
ploitable. Fourth, substitutes
are discovered as the price of a
scarce resource rises. The rise
of oil prices for example has led
to many alternate energy
sources from wood stoves to
solar energy. Fifth, recycling
becomes economically feasible.
After all, iron ores are not used
up, they are converted to a dif-

 

 

| ferent form. Why throw away

new drugs and the effects of
taking them, but mankind now
has the means to destroy every
man, woman, and child on the
earth ina matter of minutes!”’
Unfortunately such _ state-
ments are not always made by
sheer idiots as some people
might think they would be. I
can’t count the number of times
I’ve heard intelligent, and
educated people make these in-
comprehensibly narrow minded
statements. Certainly I myself
am harrowingly narrow minded

on some issues I shouldn’t be.
But the issue of technology’s

aluminum cans that are worth
money? In short, our resource
base is not a fixed pool. Con-

tinued economic growth will not
use up our resources. Rather, it
forces alternatives.
Technology is another
mitigating influence on the
scarcity of resources. Quite
simply, with improved
technology we get more and
more units of output with a
single unit of input. More iron
per ton of coal, more food per
acre of land, more information
per computer chip, and more
miles per gallon of gasoline.

A policy of Zero Economic
Growth would be very unwise, if
not itself catastrophic. Not to
even mention the monolithic
regulation and virtual socialism
it would require, it would ex-
acerbate existing problems
which only economic growth
can cure. Technological
research would suffer. Natural
governors of the market system
would be short circuited. Fur-
thermore, as Baumol and Oates
mention, economic growth is
the only chance third world na-
tions have of rising above
poverty level, especially when
one notes that birth rates in af-
fluent nations become smaller.

From an economic and
utilitarian viewpoint then,
technology is a cause of op-
timism for the future.
Technology to the rescue.

Aesthetically however, look-
ing ahead to a fast moving,
pushbutton, computerized
society is not as exciting. Time
is another scarce resource and
technology is a means to get
more out of that resource, a
scarce minute or day.
Technology is saving us time
too but I wonder if I want to be
rescued with the complications
and depersonalization of my
apple-dapple-self-stimulating-
electronically automated and
simple to operate computer.

1. William Baumol and Wallace
Oates, Economics, Environmen-
tal Policy and the Quality of Life,
(Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Pren-
tice Hall Inc., 1977), Chapter 6.

 

wickedness is particularly
frustrating because it simply
reflects a much greater social |
problem: mankind’s nearly in-
vincible skill at pointing a well
intended finger in the direction
opposite of the true cause of a
problem(s).

The characteristics of the
technology issue and its par-
ticular ramifications remind us
of the adage that guns don’t kill
people, people kill people. The
problem here is that people who
hold the belief that technology
is evil appear to have the adage
backwards, saying that people

don’t kill people, guns kill peo-
ple — this is obviously
ludicrous. My point then is that
technology doesn’t use people to

cause problems, rather, people
use technology in many ways,
some of which make for great
difficulties. It is a complete
waste of effort and intellect to
get angry with technology. (It’s
not only a waste of energy — it’s
stupid — can you imagine a per-
son getting mad at a gun that
some criminal dropped after
shooting it at a person?

The waste of good intentions
is easily what is most bother-
some. As long as people think
that technology is bad, unfair,
or evil these people will con-
tribute precious little to solving
the problems that technology

“‘causes.”’

The true culprit is not
technology, it is, of course,
mankind and its individuals
(funny how that finger seems to
have missed coming to rest on
that self same culprit so many
times throughout history, isn’t
it?)

Technology is very similar to
the gun only it has the gun’s
positive and negative char-
acteristics a thousand fold. Its
potential for harm is stupen-
dous; its potential to benefit is
breathtaking and beautiful. But
as long as we stand and yell at
the gun lying on the ground the
criminal will always get away
to strike another place at
another time.

Pyle responds mernne

and those who purloined the
name a few decades back is
over the proper duties of the
State. The base assumption of
classical Liberalism is that the
State is a compact between
sovereign individuals for the
protection of life, liberty, and
(oh joy!) property. In this
model, John Kennedy’s famous
question, (What can I do for my
country?) is simply not ap-
plicable. The State exists to
serve the individual and not
contrariwise; to preserve its
contractual parties in their
liberty, to protect them from
violent death, and to keep an
eye on their worldly goods when
they go to St. Kitts-Nevis for
break. And it is ceded no more
power than is necessary for
these duties, as agreed by the
contractual parties. There is no
room for entitlements. No one
ever asks, I suppose, why, and
in virtue of what, various
classes are entitled to skim
cash off the top of the monies
given the State for the provision
of protection of life, liberty and

property. It is an interesting
question. The attempt to ex-
clude the middle by saying, ‘if it
is wrong to let folk suffer, the
State must throw money at
them,’ is invidious. To say that
the State ought not arrogate to
itself the proper duties of
private charity and Mother
Church is not to condemn peo-
ple to die in the street. If they do
begin to be found abandoned by
the more fortunate, it is time for
a Revolution, I agree, and I’ll
lead the jacqueries. But I can-
not support the fond notion that
we can safely turn to Papa
Staat to rectify these misfor-
tunes. To do so would of necessi-
ty cause the State to assume
such powers in the attempt to
redraw the national economy as
would put liberty, capital, and
finally life in danger. It is a
logical impossibility to will that
‘that which is to protect life,
liberty, and property’ (the
State, for short) should be given
the power to attack same. That
men should be clad and warm
and fed is good; and that men

should be free is, strictly, im-
perative. To attempt to make
the Staat the guarantor of both
these rights is an exercise in
futility. It is also super-
erogatory insofar as there exist
ways of dividing these respon-
sibilities so that neither right is
likely to be abrogated. And that
is the proper business of
statecraft.

In the end, I would find it dif-
ficult to justify the ‘liberal’ posi-
tions on the grounds on which
they now rest, grounds which
only confusion can excuse; nor
are there other grounds on
which to base them. But Lock
continues to speak to our condi-
tion, and a little thought will I
trust convince you of this.
Therefore, let us praise life,
liberty, and the glorious institu-
tion of property, for they have
given us the Constitution; and
that is the Father of the spirit
and letter of the Reagan agen-
da. All hail republican (small
‘r’) principles! Two cheers for
Tory democracy!

On ABM technology

(continued from page 3)

with the greatest likelihood of

incapacitating them is thus not
very long. ABM systems such
as ground based particle beam
weapons or satellite based
lasers are also a bad idea from
the standpoint that the enemy
may try to compensate for the
obvious disadvantage by
developing anti-ABM systems
such as advanced satellite
killers thus prompting another
kind of weapons race, or even
worse, by building even more
ICBMs to try and overwhelm
our ABM system in case of
nuclear war.

In addition, the question has
been raised, in the case of an
anti-ballistic missile system, as
to what the effect would be on
deterrence. One side having the
advantage of an ABM system
may be tempted to strike in the

event of a serious crisis, since it
would not seriously have to fear
any sort of retaliation. The side
with a good satellite based laser
or particle beam system could
also shoot at the opposing side’s
ICBMs while in their silos,
destroying them without any
collateral damage.

Most people would feel that
the twin factors of technological
unfeasibility anu potential
political instability should
definitely preclude any further
development of particle beam
or laser weapons. Simple
prudence would dictate
however, that the U.S. continue
to keep abreast of ABM tech-
nology. After all, one must
remember that two of the three
inventors of the laser were Rus-
sian. The Soviets are basically
on the same level as the U.S.

with particle beam technology,
and not far behind in the laser
field. One advantage to the
military development and im-
provement of lasers and parti-
cle beams that President
Reagan may not have con-
sidered is the possible civilian
scientific benefits that would
accrue. Advances in photo-
chemistry are already one
result of the military’s explora-
tion of laser technology. So in
one sense, it may be a good idea
to try and work towards an ef-
fective laser/particle beam
ABM system, since the
resulting intermediate
technological gains may have
civilian application: Yet, the
likelihood of it being deployed
anytime in the forseeable future
is very dim indeed.

 
  

  
 

ictemmcsesetl

VOLUME 82

 

  

NUMBER 30

Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia, May 27, 1983

THE UNIVER
WASHINGTON &

ove , Q Pp 9 Ad
LEXINGTON, ¥A. <“”

1983

JUN 7

  

Aendow ww AeA

 

NON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE

PAID

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

Law school

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity awarded juris doctor
degrees to 123 law students dur-
ing commencement exercises
for the W&L School of Law Sun-
day (May 22).

Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson was the
principal speaker for the
ceremony, which was held in
the Warner Center.

In his remarks Wilson refer-
red to several common criti-
cisms aimed at the legal profes-
sion as well as concerns within
the profession.

‘| think as a people we are
starting to wonder whether we
have created too many statutes,
whether we haven’t contrived
too many regulations to govern
our corporate and our social
lives, whether the jurisdiction
of the court hasn’t reached out
too far to take in matters that
could perhaps more properly
settled by other bodies,” said
Wilson.

Within the profession, added
Wilson, there are concerns
‘“‘about whether equity under
the law is available to all our
citizens...(concerns) that the
criminal justice system con-
tinues to be clogged and creak-
ing and groaning with its pro-
cesses. There is the double and
paradoxical criticism that there
is not enough emphasis being
given to reconciliation...and at
the same time that there is too
much emphasis on plea-

bargaining.”

Wilson asked the law
graduates ‘‘not to leave these
criticisms to the amateurs.
Your generation must take
them up afresh, deal seriously
with those warranting serious
study, make it the real attention
of the profession.”

There is, Wilson added,
‘‘more at stake than the proper
ordering of the larger society.
Also at stake is the self-
governing character of the pro-
fession itself, and that must be
safeguarded.”’

Wilson also paid tribute to law
school Dean Roy L. Steinheimer
Jr., who retires June 30 from
the position he has held since

Read seeks

By WIN SISSON
Phi Staff Writer

Rockbridge County Com-
monwealth Attorney Beverly C.
‘John’ Read told the Phi
Wednesday that the current
drug problem exposed by a rash
of recent arrests is indicative of
a disease which has infected not
only our community here at
W&L, but our entire society as
well.

aduation

Steinheimer’s si

“Roy Steinheimer will have
forever the pleasure and the
deep satisfaction of knowing
that he virtually remade one of
America’s...significant institu-
tions,’”’ Wilson said, then refer-
red to a number of the many
changes accomplished during
Steinheimer’s deanship: the
size of the school increased by
2-1/2 times, women were admit-
ted as candidates for degrees,
90 percent of the current faculty
was recruited by Steinheimer, a
new law school building (Lewis
Hall) was constructed, and the
Frances Lewis Law Center was
established.

“For you and the 14 other
classes whose diplomas carry
his (Steinheimer’s) signature,
he will always be the dean,”
Wilson added.

Steinheimer told the law
students to remember that ‘‘a
lawyer must not be only
courageous but must be com-
passionate.”

Steinheimer further told the
members of the law class to
“conduct your affairs with a
sense of decency and civility
which respects the dignity of all
persons, friend or foe, who may
be touched by your actions.
Always faithfully discharge
your professional obligations to

   
  

Roy L. Steinheimer, retiring after 15 years as dean of the Law
School. (Photo by Charles Mason)

nature

a

 

the very best of your abilities...
Most importantly, always
remember that the only real
asset that a lawyer has is his
reputation for honesty and in-
tegrity. Guard and nurture this
precious asset throughout your
professional life.”

The John W. Davis Prize for
Law, given to the graduate who
maintained the best record for
general excellence throughout
his law school career, was
presented to Michael Louis
Krancer of Villanova, Pa.

Other awards announced at
commencement included the
United States Law Week Award
for the most satisfactory
scholastic progress to David
Stan Barnhill of Roanoke; the
Virginia Trial Lawyers
Association Award to Joseph
David Padgett of Virginia
Beach; the Leonard J. Schmelz
Award to Deborah Hutchins
Combs of princeton, W.Va.; the
Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. Com-
mercial Law Award to Coyne
Drew Demaray of Birming-
ham, Ala.; the University Ser-
vice Award to David Keith
Freidfeld of Merrick, Long
Island, N.Y.: and the Ring-tum
Phi Award to Howard Morgan
Griffith of Salem.

‘raw punishment’

When asked if the students
currently charged with drug-
related offenses might avoid in-
carceration and receive a lesser
form of discipline, probation
perhaps, Read said ‘‘I hope not.
Anyone who possesses drugs
with the intent to distribute
should go behind bars
regardless of whether he be a
W&L mink, a VMI cadet, a
Rockbridge County redneck, or
a white-collar city worker.”’ He

said he does not wish to ‘‘make
an example’ of anyone, but
reasoned that convictions would
serve as “‘raw punishment’’ to
the offenders, and would ‘‘serve
as a deterrent to others.”

The Commonwealth Attorney
lamented the lack of knowledge
among W&L students concern-
ing the severity of legal
penalties for possession of illicit
drugs.

Swansong Thursday

Undergraduate commence-
ment activities at Washington
and Lee University will begin
Wednesday (June 1) with the
baccalaureate service in Evans
Hall at 11 a.m.

The speaker for the bac-
calaureate will be the Rev.
George M. Docherty, currently
Howerton Scholar-in-Residence
at Washington and Lee. Docher-
ty was for 26 years the minister
of the New York Avenue
Presbyterian Church in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Following the baccalaureate
service, the W&L Alumni
Association will sponsor its an-
nual luncheon in honor of the
graduating seniors.

President and Mrs. John D.
Wilson will be the hosts for a
reception for the seniors and
their families and guests on
Wednesday evening. That will
be followed by a faculty recep-
tion and dance in Evans Hall.

On Thursday (June 2), the
commencement day activities

will begin at 9 a.m. when the
university’s Army ROTC unit
holds its commissioning
ceremony in Lee Chapel.
Retired Maj. Gen. George S.
Patton, son of the famous World
War II commander, will be the
commissioning speaker. Nine-
teen W&L cadets will be com-
missioned in the ceremony.

Diplomas will be awarded
Thursday to approximately 280
students in W&L’s College (the
university’s arts and sciences
division) and the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics
during exercises on the Front
Lawn beginning at 11 a.m. The
principal speaker will be W&L
President Wilson, who will be
making his first commence-
ment address as president of
the university. By tradition,
Bennett L. Ross of Huntington,
W.Va., Washington and Lee’s
student body president, will
deliver remarks on behalf of the
graduating seniors.

Burglars busted

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Two Lexington youths, aged
13 and 14, have been arrested by
Lexington Police and charged
with grand larceny and
burglary stemming from a
number of burglaries in
Washington and Lee University
dorms and libraries.

The youths were arrested
Saturday night outside Lloyd’s,
shortly after being seen leaving
a floor of the Graham-Lees dor-
mitory where thefts had oc-
cured. Acting on a hunch, Dorm
Counselors David Judge and

James Clark and three other
students went to Lloyd’s, where
they confronted the youths and
forced them to turn over about
$100 in cash.

The youths, who Judge said
seemed scared, asked to be let
go, but the students decided it
would be better to call the
police. After police arrived the
youths were forced to empty
their pockets, which Judge says
contained calculators, cassette
tapes, knives and rings, pre-
sumably taken from dorm
rooms.

(continued on page 3)

O’Connor cleared

By DAVID W. JOHNSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Legal proceedings against Kevin O’Connor, a Washington and
Lee sophomore who had been charged with possession of cocaine,
have been dropped for the time being. At a preliminary hearing
Tuesday, Commonwealth’s Attorney Beverly C. ‘‘John’” Read

entered a motion of Nolle Prosequi.

This usually means the charges have been dropped, although
Read would not rule out the possibility of reintroducing the case.
Read refused to comment because the case is technically still pen-

ding.

O’Connor’s attorney, Eric Lee Sisler, a former Commonwealth’s
Attorney who has prosecuted drug-related cases, said he did not ex-

pect the case to come up again.

O’Connor had been charged after police investigating a burglary
at the Delta Tau Delta fraternity discovered items bearing cocaine
residue in his room. O’Connor said the items were not his, and that

a polygraph test supported him.

In other court related developments, hearings for Charles
Phillips and Marc Ham, both charged with possession of cocaine
with intent to distribute, were postponed.

Phillips, who waived his right to a preliminary hearing, had a
trial set for May 19. A new trial date will be set July 6.

Ham was scheduled to have a preliminary hearing on May 24, but
it was postponed by the prosecutor, pending the arrival of labratory

reports.
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, May 27, 1983

Pyling it on

By M. SHAW PYLE

Despite the fact that the
weather back home (and over
in Louisiana and Mississippi)
has been godawful, it may safe-
ly be said that the hounds of
Spring have treed their
‘possum. We are all of us
preparing to bolt more or less
homewards any minute now.
Only the Powers That Be will
remain. The majority of us, I
imagine, would like the place to
be standing when September
falls heavily upon us. So, to
those Powers, the following
reminders.

Imprimus, Tories and Whigs
(as opposed to the so-called
‘liberals’ of today) are alike
agreed that there is a profound
difference between tradition
and legislation. A law may be
pushed, pulled, stretched out of
shape, and stood on its head;
and then restored by the same
House that fooled around with it
to begin with. A tradition, once
broken, is forever lost. Now, we -
‘Whigs differ from the Tories in
assuming that there may exist a
moral obligation to change

radically at the last resort; but
that certainly doesn’t happen
often, and is not even con-
ceivable in the case of the pro-
posed changes ’round here, be it
coeducation or putting in a new
Bauhaus auditorium.

Secundus, the Powers would
do well to recall that there is a
difference between growth and
change. Growth is an organic
development which adds on to
existing precedent. Mere
change breaks with tradition
and imposes something upon
the corpus in its place, often in
very stupid fashions.

Tertius, any attempt to mere-
ly excise the past cuts the

‘ground from beneath the

reformer. Renouncing the past
renounces — indeed, denies
—the present problem, and
makes the proffered nostrums
valueless.

Ergo, let caution be the
watchword, good sirs, this sum-
mer and henceforward. Let us
not go incautious into the
future.

So much for this year, folks.

_ Until the next, all the best.

Writers honored

Six Washington and Lee
University students were
honored by the W&L depart-
ment of English during an
awards ceremony held Thurs-
day (May 26).

Mark C. Jenkins, a senior
from Richmond, received the
Jean Amory Wornom Award for
Distinguished Critical Writing
for a paper on Henry James’
“The American.”

Three students won George A.
Mahan Awards in Creative
Writing. Jackson R. Sharman of
Tuscaloosa, Ala., received the
senior prose award for a story
entitled “33 1/3,’ and Charles

Letters

To the Editor:

On behalf of the needy in

Rockbridge county and across
the world, we, the W&L Inter-
Varsity Christian Fellowship,
would like to thank everyone
who supported the world hunger
project. Particular thanks goes
to Mr. Darrell and the employ-
ees of Evans Dining Hall who
worked with us in arranging a
world hunger night on Tuesday,
May 17. Through the kindness of
many students in donating their
meals, we received $315.15 from
Evans Dining Hall. Our
gratitude also goes out to the
fraternities, which, as a whole
were very cooperative and
generous. The money, which
may total as much as $400, will
be divided between RARA
(Rockbridge Area _ Relief
Association) and World Vision.
Again, thanks for your support,
and we look forward to another
successful world hunger project
next year.

Mo Gill

W: Alcorn of Victoria, Tex., won
the junior award for a story
called ‘‘A Rite of Passage.”’ The
poetry award went to Phillip
Ray Welch, a senior from Lex-
ington, for a poem, ‘What
Comes to Us.”

Departmental _ scholarships
were awarded to two English
majors. David W. Ames, a
junior from Virginia Beach,
received the Catherine Houston
Campbell Scholarship in
English literature, and John
Scott Doyle, a junior from Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla., won the
Elizabeth B. Garrett Scholar-

ship in English.

 

COR UE. PROD, SPITE

‘You OBVIOUSLY SUFFERING FROM AN ACUTE MILITARY AID DEFICIENCY!’

Lost?

Found in the University Center:
Several jacketsnylon and wool
basketball shoes

Brown Corduroy Cowboy Hat
Several Scarves

Tweed Hat

Several Umbrellas

Several Handbags
Multi-colored tote Bag
Several Sweaters

Books and notebooks

Found in the Dining Hall:
Two baseball gloves

Casio Digital Watch

Articles of Clothing

Books & notebooks

Found in the library:
dehumidifier, eye glasses,
checkbooks, shirts, jackets,
typewriter, coffee pots, etc.
Athletic Offices :
Items are turned in to the

Office and to the Equipment
room. Please check with either
of these locations to locate an
item. Nolist given.

Brickbats from Bouquet

To the Editor;

Last week’s~- Excelsior
contained a reply by Markham
Pyle to my article ‘Compassion
and the Republican Party,”
which appeared in the Winter
Excelsior. Mr. Pyle. disputes
my contention that the poor
were hurt by the 1981 Reagan
tax cut. It is quite true that
every taxpayer received some
sort of tax relief. I am not stupid
enough to claim that only the
rich received a tax cut in 1981.
What I am claiming is that
those tax cuts, while putting an
extra can of Campbell’s soup on
the table for the average 4-
member, poverty-level family,
ended up hurting poor people on
the overall.

The Reagan tax cut was part
of an overall ‘‘Economic
Recovery Act,’’ which couples
the tax cuts with domestic
spending cuts and defense in-
creases. The domestic spending
cuts were an integral part of the
tax cut package — one could not

go without the other. Reagan
had to try to balance the budget
somewhere — and it ended up
being on the backs of those who
could least afford it. That’s
right — the working poor and
the middle class of this country.
Let’s talk about how the spend-
ing cuts, which could not be
separated from the tax cuts,
hurt the poor. The Legal Ser-
vices Corporation, providing
legal aid for the poor, was gut-
ted and staffed with lawyers
who drained the remaining
funds with fees two and three
times as high as those charged
in the past. Student aid has been
decreased, with the resultant
decrease in opportunity. The
list goes on and on.

Pyle seems to have missed
my point: I decried the un-
fairness of those tax cuts — both
in the repercussions and in the
way they were skewed.

The top 5 percent in income
received 33 percent of the tax

(continued on page 3)

 

 

Lecture series

Biomedical Ethics

Three lectures on current
-issues in the area of biomedical
ethics will highlight the annual
Medical Ethics Institute at
Washington and Lee University
on Friday and Saturday.

The institute is held each year
as a part of the university’s in-
novative program, ‘Society
and the professions: Studies in
Applied Ethics.”’

The lectures, which will be
presented in Northen Auditori-
um and will be open to the
public, are:

“Where Are We in Bioethics?
The State of the Art’? by Louis
W. Hodges, professor of religion
at Washington and Lee and di-
rector of Society and the Profes-
sions. Hodges’ lecture will be at
9a.m., May 27;

“Justice in Health Care in an
Era of Cost Containment” by
Ronald Bayer, associate for
policy studies of the Hastings
Center’s Institute of Society,
Ethics and the Life Sciences.
Bayer’s lecture will be at 2 p.m.
Friday;

“The Dying Patient and the
Natural Death Acts” by James
Childress, professor of religious
studies and medical education
at the University of Virginia.
Childress’ lecture will be at 9
a.m.onSaturday. >

Bayer has been in his current
position with the Hastings
Center since 1978. He is a
graduate of the State University
of New York at Binghamton and
earned both his master’s degree
and Ph.D. from the University
of Chicago. He is the author of a
1981 book entitled ‘‘Homosex-
uality and American Psychia-
try: The Politics of Diagnosis”’ ;
and was the editor of a 1983
volume entitled ‘In Search of
Equity: Health Needs and the
Health Care System.” He has
written numerous articles on
drug abuse and related topics.

Childress, who joined the
faculty of the University of
Virginia in 1968, is the author of
“Priorities in Biomedical
Ethics,”’ which pvon the 1981 Phi
Beta Kappa Award at U.Va.

 

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

 

Be odin ss 050-03. vdeddsoabck oki is dbs Lote eee Bill Roberts
TR NIN 6 6a 6 600-0. 0060 095-48 4 Fac Dawe cd oe dha bd eee kd ae Steve Perry
I 5560000 1 0 a 045 04 1 65s eas ee et Allen Roberts
ot rec ee Oe PEN Te OPC TPE T NPCS ET Pe eee: Lee Nichols
ME IIE i oi. so 6. ao aks hs erica ccs dai Mike Stachura
6.5 5 600s Cees Vetees (Feb 1 akibe) en) ie Jim Laurie
Ree NII ji oo. 9. 000400544 1200 Lah ccd ncddbe io ein cae Dave Stevens
WO 55g bai i605 6 0000 ase rec iiiieliescbedcccaiiciisices Eric Campbell
ere ey eee David W. Johnston
I 6 6555 66581 440606545 605 5 0s ahi thst Mike Allen, John Harrison

Andrew Hoppes, Ted LeClercq,
Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, Win Sisson,

RIO 6. 85. ble oes iis es eek Pe cs ek Tom O'Brien
RT gs i'n 0 54's aR) nl cee) cote raiars Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
CORIO 66 151 bh fha wos 001d ri hes hiss thc nce Pei ee wets Todd Barstow

a Fi ea RR a lar a i it a i aL arene Un
The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.
Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

ESSA RETREAT EE REASON TRIO 2 ARIAS SAI LRA ENCE TR ITE TATRA TW Si OR SOIREE
EN NALA RE LTR AES ONAN ST ROT DEANE I CL LTD ETE TE LL LE TA EEL ET IO ELLE D EIST AE
Neen eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee cere e

Brickbats bean Pyle

(continued from page 2)

break. Mr. Pyle claims this
break must, by the necessity of
his own inexorable logic, accrue
to the poor by “‘trickling down
from on high.” If the trickle
down farce is ‘“‘reasonable’’ as
Mr. Pyle suggests it is, then
why hasn’t it worked up to this
point, in the Reagan version?
To this Reaganauts will answer,
‘Well, now we're in a
recovery.’”’ We are in a
recovery; a recovery from the
worst recession. in post-war
history. It is a Paul Volcker
recovery made necessary by
$200 billion Reagan deficits and
the failure of the Reagan pro-
gram. (Yes, Reagan, the same
man who hysterically calls the
Democrats big spenders.)
Volcker’s recovery came from
loosening the reins of the money
supply when he looked a U.S.
depression in the face in July
1982. (Remember Reagan’s
magic formula of Fall 1981: $1
trillion in  tax-cut-revenue
drains over 5 years plus huge in-
creases in defense spending
plus a few cuts in child nutrition
programs equals economic
bliss and Pax Americana
abroad.) The same economics
that Vice President Bush once
called ‘‘voodoo economics” had
laid the prospect of a depression
on Volcker’s desk.

What leadership has Reagan
shown since 1981? The answer
is: none. He has done nothing
but blame Congress and the
past administration for the pro-
blems his 1981 package created.

Many of those who voted for
the 1981 package, including
such Republican moderates as
Baker, Dole, and Domenici,
have tried to redress an error
by showing the leadership that
Regan will not show. They have
said that revenues must be rais-
ed. Two-hundred billion dollar
budget deficits cannot simply
be wished or blamed away. This
country is without leadership.
Our president has done nothing
since 1981 — where is the
leadership in action? Where is
the leadership in a President
who stands up at a Brazilian
state dinner and toasts his
“Bolivian” hosts; who a couple
of weeks ago at a conference
with news editors was so rambl-
ing and incoherent that the
white house press corps was
given to guffawing? Where is
the leadership in a man, who
two and one half years after
taking office as President, still
spouts the same conservative
slogans he used for decades on
the ‘‘rubber-chicken’”’ circuit.

Reagan, as all modern
presidents, must protect the
constitutional rights of blacks
— it’s his constitutional duty.
However, overall civil rights
policy has been as unfair as the
economic policy that accom-
panied his tax cuts. The Reagan
administration has tightened its
interpretations of discrimina-
tion in higher education, pro-

posed tax credits for segregated
universities, advocated a return
to the false ‘“‘separate but
equal” doctrine in coming out
against busing, called affir-
mative action a “racial spoils
system.”’ To Reagan, 20 years
of progress in eliminating
racism has redressed 200 years
of brutal oppression of fellow
human beings. All citizens now
share equal opportunity, says
Reagan. If this is so, why is
black teenage unemployment at
45 percent? If Reagan has
helped the cause of blacks, why
will over 80 percent of blacks
vote against him if he runs in
1984? And what about economic
rights? Aren’t these commen-
surate with opportunity? I defy
Mr. Pyle to call Reagan a fair
man.

Reagan is, contrary to what
Mr. Pyle says, as hysterical in
foreign affairs as he is unfair in
domestic affairs. If Mr. Pyle
even talked to one European he
might find out how hysterical
Reagan’s bellicosity has been.
Pyle is dead wrong when he
claims that Reagan is not
responsible for the European
peace demonstrations. These
demonstrations were caused by
loose talk about ‘“‘limited
nuclear war” and ‘“‘evil Soviet
empires,’”’ and an overriding
concentration on military mat-
ters in East/West relations. Mr.
George Kennan, one of the fore-
most scholars on the Soviets,
recently called it ‘irresponsi-
ble” for the President to think
of nothing but “balance of
power” in relations with our
adversary.

Those who call for a more
balanced approach, such as
Democrats and the Catholic
bishops, are what Mr. Pyle and
Lenin would call “‘useful fools.’’
The bishops are not naive fools,
unaware of the real world. They
are just as acute in their obser-
vations of the world as Mr. Pyle
claims he is. Or would Mr. Pyle
suggest his point of view was
less foolish than men who have
risen through the church hierar-
chy, after years of dealing with
human problems? The bishops,
and the Democrats, are not cry-
ing out for surrender to godless
communism. They are crying
for a moral consideration of

nuclear arms. The words of the _

bishops carry moral impact.
The words of the democrats,
and all of those who have
discovered they were sold a bill
of goods by the Reagan ad-
ministration and the Republi-
can National Committee, the
words of the working and mid-
die class of this country, who
are much worse off under
Reagan than ever before, will
carry political impact in 1984.
Democrats will carry the ban-
ner of equality in domestic
policy and stability in foreign
policy.

Chris Bouquet

 

Northen
fellows

William Fitzhugh Brundage,

a graduate student at Harvard,
and Joy Leslye Comstock, a
graduate student at Montana
State University, have been
selected to receive the 1983
Mary Moody Northen Graduate
Fellowships, which are being
jointly sponsored by Washing-
ton and Lee University and the
Historic Lexington Foundation.

The fellowships, established
with a grant from Mary Moody
Northen Inc., of Galveston,
Tex., are for three months of
residential work and study at
the Stonewall Jackson House in
Lexington.. The two Moody
Fellows will begin work at the
Jackson House in mid-June.

Comstock is a graduate of
Ohio State University. She is a
native of Logan, Ohio, and has
lived for two years in Char-
lottesville while: working at
Monticello. She is studying
American history in the gradu-
ate program at Montana State
and plans a career in museum
administration and historic site
interpretation.

Brundage is a graduate of the
University of Chicago and has
just completed his first year of
graduate study in American
history at Harvard.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 27, 1983, Page 3

Burglars

(continued from page 1)

‘“They’ve been seen around
the frats and libraries,’’ in addi-
tion to the dorms, said Judge,
adding, “I think these guys
could be tied to a lot of thefts.’’

Since the two teens were ap-
prehended, Judge said many
students have come forward to
say things had been taken from
their room. Lately, however,
“these things are coming out
every day,’’ Judge says.

University proctor Charles
‘‘Murph”’ Murray, who credits
the students with apprehending

the alleged thieves, says a Class
Pass seized with the two teens
might tie them to a break in at
Ko Sigma Alpha Epsilon frater-
nity.

The two preyed on the unlock-
ed doors in university dorms,
entering rooms and taking
small things that could be easily
concealed, concentrating on
cash. ‘“‘They’d empty your
wallet out and throw it on the
floor,” said Judge.

“I’ve never locked my door in
my three years here,” said
Judge, who had money taken
from his room, “I was shock-
ed.”

COE MMM dia lie Ca)

Each Wednesday night 5:30

until 8:30 p.m.-All The Salad,
Pizza, Spaghettti, Cavatini, and a. an

Garlic Bread you can eat for

Thy

 

600 E.. Nelson St.
CINEMA |

Lexington

261-2900

PHONE 463-7000
Buena Vista

STARTS FRIDAY

The Black Stallion Returns

Friday & Saturday 7:15 & 9:00 PG
Sunday-—Thursday 7:15 only
meer i all seats $1.50

 

  
 

 
  

et

 

itt we a a
es

) We will be ha

‘Herri ng rave

Congratulations to the Class of ’83!
ppy to arrange trips

home or summer vacation trips.

      
    

 
    
 
      

aaa
ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

 

Sat. & Sun. Mats. 2 p.m.
& Mon. Night all seats $1.50

 

The first movie that Puts aca ae
in sah iliac 3

ae

Le KIN TON

HELD OVER
Eves.7&9

ear
463-3543

WARREN OATES « CANDY CLAAK - SAWTEL STana

HE'S OUT THERE.: |
ROY an ¥.
weet hin

 

 

 
  

—.

ng-Neck

$9.52

 

APARTMENTS FOR RENT
College Inn Apartments

16 N. Main St.
Lease Required, $150.00 per month

Call Clyde Mull 463-7200 or 463-4588

 

BUD
12-Pack

$4.95

  
  
 

        
    

   
      

 

ete nee ene oe emerer ”

ee we oe
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wotieihniaiaithpipiniinihipennghitnne hein

te trench mag ae ea

riviecahiaaentniredviap

Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, May 27, 1983

 

Sports

 

Time out ...

By MIKE STACHURA
Assistant Sports Editor

..When one thinks of men’s
professional tennis, an image
that — most recently — is
unavoidable in such a con-
sideration is that of a John
McEnroe bitching or a Jimmy
Connors showing us that he
—professional that he is — can
make obscene gestures that
most 15-year-olds understand.
What one takes away from this
is that these gentlemen surely
can’t be enjoying their work, so
why make us pay to watch peo-
ple complain about their jobs?
There is hope for us, the shafted
spectators, in the person of Jim-
my Arias. The 18-year-old born
and bred in the oft criticized
and little understood American
hotbed, junior tennis. No, Jim-
my’s not a saint, but stacked
against the other bad boys he’s
certainly ready for canoniza-
tion. An illustration of the hope
on the horizon was Arias’ per-
formance at the Italian Open

 

last weekend. The young man

from New York not only won the
tournament, but also his style of
play was one that seems to be
missing too often in today’s
players, especially the
Americans. His intensity and
tenacity are complemented by
an on-court demeanor that em-
barrasses no one. He questions
calls but does not berate of-
ficials. What’s more, he makes
the match enjoyable, not simply
because his skills are so finely
tuned, but because it is readily
apparent that he enjoys his
work. Tennis and sports in
general need more stars like
Jimmy Arias. Who knows?
Maybe good sportsmanship will
become cool again....

...It’s a shame that the sports
awards ceremonies seem to go
unnoticed by those outside the
W&L athletic community. Too
often it seems our vision is
clouded by the games and the
scores and we aren’t able to see
what athletics are supposed to
be. We lose sight of the first part
of the hyphenation ‘‘student-
athlete.” The athletes, indeed,

the entire athletic program at
W&L deserves more than praise
for consistently representing
the best in themselves and, in
turn, the best in W&L....

...Thank you Jimmy Connors
for once again proving how vile
you actually are. Connors, who
refused to play on the Davis Cup
team against Argentina be-
cause he had vowed to never
again play on clay, is seeded
first at the French Open. The
surfaces at the French Open:
Clay...

..The Jersey Prince’s final
words for W&L 1982-83 are as
follows:

“Over the summer, don’t
forget my baseball picks:
Milwaukee, Chicago; (AL), and
L.A., Montreal; (NL). If he
runs, Marfa may be tough in the
Belmont. Ivan Lendl, Martina
Navratilova will win Womble-
don. One last prediction: The

Prince will have a Deep, Dark.

Tan in about three days. Good

summer...
seit I hope this space has made

you think at least enough to
make you question my sanity.
Enjoy your vacation. I look for-
ward to chatting again.....

 

 

$150,000 on-campus pavilion

By WIN SISSON
Phi Staff Writer

During the Executive Com-
mittee meeting Monday night, a
study advocating the construc-
tion of an on-campus pavilion
was presented by the members
of the Recreation Center Com-
mittee. The RCC concluded in
their report that there is a
definite need for such a struc-
ture and made tentative
estimates of the cost and size of
the project. The RCC was form-
ed during the winter and in-
cludes EC members Darby

Brower, Dave Johnston and
Mike Singer.

The RCC cited three reasons
why they believe there is a need
for an on-campus recreation
center. First, it would supple-
ment activities usually held in
other university buildings. Se-
cond, with the new ABC laws it
would provide a reliable source
for university sponsored social
events. Third, it would reduce
the. incidence of drunk driving.

Among those whom the RCC
consulted was head of Buildings
and Grounds, Mr. Scott Beebe.

In an interview with the Phi,
Beebe said ‘‘such a place would

serve to reduce the wear and °

tear on other university
buildings.” Beebe also noted
that student involvement would
reduce B&G crew time as less
time would need be spent
preparing university buildings
for school functions.

Another member of the W&L
community who is supportive of
the recreation center proposal
is Director of University Dining
and Food Service Jerry Darrell.
“People are always asking me

 

you could wish!

electric utilities.

 

Moving To Richmond?

Looking for a great apartment that’s just right for your lifestyle? Make
it simple! Call GSC...The Apartment People. One phone call will put you
in touch with the apartment communities that fit your needs.

Let our FREE service save you time and precious gas! We do the
research and recommend the apartment availabilities best for you!

The choice in locations, features, floor plans (more than 100) and styles
is tremendous. All apartments are fully modern with virtually any com-
bination of features, community facilities and planned social activities

Many GSC communities include utilities for heat, hot water and cook-
ing. This is important when you consider that Virginia Electric and
Power Company is the 8th most expensive among the nation’s 109 major

We also have a roommate service, and we’ll send you a free Richmond
area map and apartment locator. In Richmond, call 329-6666. In Virginia

outside the Richmond area, call toll-free 1-800-542-3276. Nationwide, call
toll-free 1-800-368-7669. Make it easy on yourself!

GSC

The Apartment People

 

 

 

 

English plays well at
NCAA Championships

Competing in a field of 120,
Washington and Lee senior
Frank English tied for 82nd

place in the NCAA Division III
golf Championships held May
17-20 in Wooster, Ohio.

English, a _ resident of
Philadelphia, carded rounds of
85, 79, 79 and 81 for a 324 total at
the par-72 Wooster Country

Club, which W&L coach Buck
Leslie described as ‘‘a tough
course with small, sloping
greens that made putting, very
difficult.”

“Frank played much better
than he scored,’’ added the
eight-year mentor. ‘‘He ran into

bad luck on two holes the first
day, then put together two con-
sistent rounds including one the

(to use the dining hall)...I try to
be as liberal as possible.”
However, maintenance costs as
well as the growing size of func-
tions such as the Superdance
have forced Darrell to for-
mulate a new policy concerning
use of the hall. “Evans is no
longer available for non-dining
functions with the exception of
on-going, recurring things held
in the past.” said Darrell. He
noted one obvious advantage of
an on-campus pavilion — it
would reduce drunk driving.
Coming to and from Zollman’s
“at least three people have been
killed since I’ve been here”
Darrell added.

Tentative estimates of the
proposal project a structure
nearly five times the size in
square footage of Evans and at
an estimated cost of $150,000.
Beebe stressed that estimates
made at this time are mere

“ballpark figures.”

The RCC suggested that fun-
ding come from student taxes.
The report states: A very rough
estimate of $150,000 would allow
for a student tax increase of $12
per student for the next 25
years. Obviously, a loan of
$150,000 from the school or a
commercial bank would be
necessary, and an interest rate
of 8.8 percent has been the cur-
rent rate for fraternities. Costs
that would be incurred through
the operation of the facility
would be picked up through the
student tax and through rental
charges to those deciding to use
the facility. The university
treasurer has suggested that a
university loan could be given
to the student body, to be paid
through a 25-year period by an
increase in the student tax.

Similar considerations have
been made at nearby Sweet

third day when rain sent most
scores into the 80’s.”’

English, one of 25 golfers to
receive ‘‘at-large’’ berths in the
Championships, also played in a
48-man East-West All-Star
event held May 16 at the Club.
He and his partner won their

match to help the East post a 7-5
win in the best-ball competition.

English was the third W&L

golfer to play as an individual in
the Championships. Jerry
Maatman of Wilmett, Ill. finish-
ed third in the 1979 event, also
held at Wooster, and Gerry
Barousse of New Orleans plac-

ed 48th in 1980. The Generals
have twice sent an entire team:
first in 1977, when they placed
seventh; and again in 1979 when
they finished 11th.

recommended

Briar and Hollins. At Sweet
Briar the Board of Overseers.
determined April 29 that though
the need for such a building ex-
ists, money which would fund
such a project is more needed in
other areas. Hollins scratched
their pavilion plan, opting in-
stead to revamp the Moody
Center. However, it has not
been determined whether the
million-dollar endowment made
recently to the school will affect
these plans.

As recently as 1980, a pro-
posal advocating an on-campus
pavilion was made at W&L. Ac-
cording to Associate Dean of
Students Mike Cappeto, the 1980
proposal died as a result of bad
publicity in the Ring-tum Phi.
Initially, said Cappeto, the
faculty and administration
favored the proposal, but
numerous errors and mis-
representations in the Phi ‘‘kill-
edit.”

The RCC prefers to see a
multi-purpose structure built. It
would be more functional, bet-
ter serve departmental needs
and have a greater use to
students and faculty.

However a_ multi-purpose
facility would be much more
costly and take much longer to
build.

When all the pros and cons
are weighed it seems the
pavilion could answer many
needs. Perhaps most important
of these was one one brought out
by -President Wilson in his
‘First Impressions’ speech.

“I worry about the non-
affiliated students...35 percent
of us are not members of frater-
nities and I’m not sure what
kind of social or extra-
curricular life the university

_helps to provide for students

who have decided not to go that
way.”
 

WON PROFIT ORG.
U.S. POSTAGE 7

PAID Daa

LEXINGTON, VA
PERMIT NO. 38

 

 

 

 

Ring-tum Phi

VOLUME 82 NUMBER 31 Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia, June 2, 1983

 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEK UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTONy VA: 24430

1983

Fear and loathing in the Galapago

By HENRY LANGHORNE
Special-to-the-Phi

We hit the language barrier in
Miami.

The Miami airport resembles
a carpeted shopping mall.
There are many. stores,
counters, telephones, and
vacuum cleaners, and at 11:40
p.m., not many people pushing
vacuum cleaners knew how to
speak English.

We were trying to find the In-
osphere Lounge on the Eastern
wing of the airport. Diane
Bowen and Wendy Carter were
waiting there for us. Diane was
an editor for one of Professor
Hickman’s books, The Biology
of Animals. Wendy was a friend
Diane met hot-air ballooning.
They were from St. Louis, and
they said that a lot of people get
in baskets attached to balloons
and float around St. Louis.

I guess it was natural for each
of us to imagine we were
Charles Darwin beginning his
famous voyage as a naturalist
on the H.M.S. Beagle in
December 1831. For me there
were several parallels with
Charles: we were both 22 years
old when we left on our trips, we
both were planning on going to

   

a

JUN 3

bi

lounge in the tropical sun of the Galapagos Islands. (Phi photo by

Five members of the family Iguanidae with serrated dorsal crests
Ace Langhorne)

medical school, and we both
had fathers and grandfathers

who were doctors. But that’s

about where the similarities
end.

Charles’ trip lasted four
years, nine months, and two
days; mine lasted 20 days.
Charles left England on a three-
masted, 64-foot, naval survey
vessel built in Devonport,
England. We boarded a Boeing
727 jet built in Seattle powered
by three 7,000 horsepower
engines, and cruised at 750
miles per hour, 35,000 feet
above the water Charles floated
across. There were 74 people
packed into the Beagle. More
than 200 of us sat comfortably in
reclining chairs in an_ air-
conditioned cabin while we
were served drinks by beautiful
stewardesses.

The stewardesses really
weren’t that beautiful. It is hard
to describe them because they
changed so much. Itseemed the
further south we travelled, the
more militaristic they got. By
the time we landed in Quito,
Ecuador, the guys wheeling the
carts down the aisles had
machine guns and rocket
launchers strapped to their
belts.

There were other differences
too. Charles had to convince his
father that the Beagle was a
safe ship, that the captain and
crew were fit, and that he would
not be speared by some savage

(continued on page 4)

Phi interview

Wilson shapes agenda through feedback

By WILLIAM ROBERTS
Editor-in-Chief

Washington and Lee’s new
president, Dr. John D. Wilson,
said in an interview Friday that
the question of coeducation for
W&L is an important one and
one we should consider very
carefully. Wilson also gave his
views on the fraternity system,
drugs on campus, the faculty

‘and curriculum, university
housing, and Black enrollment
at W&L.

“I came to Washington and
Lee in January without any
special preoccupation with the
question of coeducation,”’
Wilson said. “I had discussed
the question with the Board of
Trustees and I said that I ad-
mire the Board’s decision not to
joina fad.”

In 1976, the Board of Trustees
voted not to allow W&L to go
coeducational after an in-depth
study of the matter.

“‘T think it is a terribly impor-
tant question and I think it is
something that is on a lot of peo-
ple’s minds,” Wilson said.
“This is the kind of thing that
you have to take your time
about.”

Wilson said that he has re-

ceived numerous letters from
alumni expressing opinions and
asking questions about coedu-
cation. He gave the Rintum Phi
copies of some of the cor-
respondence, (Please see page
three. )

Wilson emphasized that it is
not he who is raising the ques-
tion of coeducation again; say-
ing that he merely reflects the
feelings of alumni, faculty, ad-
ministrators and students by
responding to their comments.

“The ‘Baby Boom’ carried us
for a while, but the demo-
graphics have changed,”’
Wilson said. According to a
report prepared for the Board
of Trustees meeting on May 21,
the ‘‘population of 18 year-old
students will decline from 3.1 to
2.4 million (26 percent) between
1979 and 1994.”

‘Assuming, one, we are able
to hold our present position be-
tween now and 1992, two, the
economy and the federal finan-
cial aid picture remain clear,
and three, we will expect to
enroll a class in 1992 compara-
ble to 199@,_ then the Class of 1996
should ber no more than
265,” the report concluded.

The University Register of
Faculty, Staff and Students lists

363 freshman enrolled in 1982
for the Class of 1986. Wilson in-
dicated that these expectations
raise questions about the Uni-
versity’s policy regarding ad-
mission of women.

eBlack students at W&L

Wilson said he has been talk-
ing to people on campus about
the problems faced by Black
students at Washington and
Lee. ‘‘I have talked with Johnny
White, Dean of Minority Af-
fairs, about some of the pro-
blems of Black students, but I
have got to get with the students
themselves,”’ Wilson said. ‘I’ve
been invited to go and talk to
SABU just to get to know
them.”’

“I think the Black students
have a much tougher time than
white students because the
women’s schools do not have
many Blacks either,’ Wilson
said.

“TI really do hope we can
bridge the communication gap
so all students at Washington
and Lee can participate fully,”
Wilson said. ‘‘I think it is a task
we have to face here in America
and I think we can do it well ina
small, residential community.”’

Wilson also cited the excellent
academic record of Black stu-

dents at W&L. ‘‘We have to do
all we can to insure that con-
tinues and remove all the ar-
tificial impediments,” he said.
eThe Faculty and Curriculum

Wilson said that in
academics, there should be a
balance between scholarly
work and teaching. ‘I think the
University has achieved an ex-
tensively healthy balance be-
tween scholarly work and
teaching.”

‘“‘As a model, we have a per-
son who has a scholarly interest
in a subject, contributes to the
development of that subject,
and yet is able to communicate
it to young minds in the class-
room, and is accessible to
them,”’ Wilson said.

“I do think that, in the short-
run, we need to develop our cur-
riculum in computer science,”
Wilson said. ‘‘The math depart-
ment is obliged to rethink its in-
troductory courses and how stu-
dent enrollment patterns turn
out under the new curriculum
program.”’ The new curriculum
requirements passed by the
faculty this year will require
students to earn 10 credits in
mathematics and _ labaratory
sciences instead of the present-

(continued on page 3)
Page 2, The Ring-tum Phi, June 2, 1983

  

W&L endures ,..

By ALLEN S. ROBERTS
Phi News Editor

Often we most fully understand our institutions
when we step outside them and consider their aspect
objectively.

On the eve of graduation, this applies to Washington
and Lee, which is sometimes sharply criticized for its
closely-held traditions and the comfort many of its
students enjoy. The nickname of ‘‘Mink’’ is not inap-
propriate for much of the student body, who are for-
tunate enough to wear fine threads and drive finely-
crafted cars. But these luxuries are more the hard-
earned fruits of successful parents’ labors than the
mark of haughty affluence.

In our capitalist society, the material manifesta-
tions of wealth are accorded more significance than
the educational advantages of a well-endowed univer-
sity. During his 14-year tenure as University Presi-
dent, Robert E. R. Huntley managed a 10-year cam-
paign that garnered $67 million in support of this
university’s purpose. The official articulation of that
goal is two-fold:

1) “The dedication of all its

resources to the development
of man’s capacity and desire to
learn, to understand, and to
pass on to others the varied
benefits of this intellectual
growth.”
2) “The pursuit of its educa-
tional purpose in a climate of
learning that stresses the im-
portance of the individual, his
personal honor and integrity,
his harmonious relationship
with his fellow man, and his
responsibility to serve society
through the productivity of his
training and his talent.”

It is not until we have left the classroom and
entered the job market that these amorphous aspira-
tions take shape and full impact on our sensibilities.
We need not be alumni returning for our twentieth
class reunion, however, to feel a sense of missed op-
portunities and underdeveloped friendships. These
regrets surface as soon as we have taken the last ex-
am of our college career. Having cleared the books
from our library carrel, their weight is offset by ex-
hiliration as we make our last necessary trek down
“‘the hill.”’

The Ring-tum Phi

 

AEE nce casi cree ee eter eee rn eed comeriennetietinns cone Bill Roberts
BEE PERMIE once co ce tc ce heh ececneeseedroneeencerseccedoennennes Steve Perry
POOR cis cade veccrcy cect cetcececdececetCeciricperaoveteciies Allen Roberts
Oars EE isc cece red cece iveeteneceubededererelenegeiiuens Lee Nichols
Asslotant Bpette AMO occ ice ccceccvecrecdndovcrndecectearense Mike Stachura
PERRI EE wg ccs cia e chante ecnecrdsecsesveceneeoencineese Jim Laurie
TROAE PBIB oo ccv ccc becee cnt eees es ceadibaclincebionvesvese Dave Stevens
PUTO co vcccccccccccccgiccsberrectcctcccecoeaséogbotvecpetess Eric Campbell
Batertaient DERG. ii cece ce ccotcecccaveneeeeoeesebipeceene’s David W. Johnston
TROUT OONG onc kin end 605 Cady Ce ERE ita encetercevectes Mike Allen, John Harrison
Andrew Hoppes, Ted LeClercq,

Phil Murray, Nelson Patterson, Win Sisson,

MBVOPEINE ABOUT ooo cic tccccccetccccccascedeeccaeectssceticste Tom O’Brien
ABD AAO Nis Al Bryant, Charles King, Brad Huston
Copan Dy 5 266 iain 0k 0 OE 0s be cece beetaks (RAEN Todd Barstow

The Ring-tum Phi is published every Thursday during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and from a portion of the student activities fee. The
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-Chief and Business Manager, but the Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters to the Editor and submissions must be in the Ring-tum Phi office, room 206 of
the Student Center, by 5 p.m. Monday of the week they are to be run. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

But even as we feel the vertigo of accomplishment
and the promise of a career, few of us escape Sartre’s
anguish of free will and its responsibilities.

A sheepskin mask is lifted, and we see the resources
we have left untapped in preparation for our frighten-
ing leap from dependent student to self-reliant in-
dividual.

The breadth and accessibility of these resources
here is strikingly high for such a small university.
This is a fortunate disproportion that spurs our minds
when the last grades are in. We may remember that
history course we never worked into our tight
schedule. We might wish we had attended more CON-
TACT lectures or spent more time rapping with that
especially wizened professor. Suddenly the library
looms vast and magnificent, and the colonnade takes
on new splendor. We pause to take in the silence of the
campus. We finally read the plaque our hurried steps
wore thin, and we feel the solidity of the benches and

the trees.

Solid and enduring. This is the quality of W&L
which money alone will not ensure. The same oppor-
tunities existed a century ago, and will again call to
be embraced as many years from now. And students
will still rush through the academic and social
gauntlet of Washington and Lee, intent on achieving
their manhood one warm June afternoon. When they
do feel that weight of responsibility in a scroll of
distinction, the anonymous faces and unread books
will still flash before their eyes.

Only the individual student can decide how deeply
he will plunge his head and hands into W&L’s
resources. We can only hope that tradition will sus-
tain the opportunity, and that vision will keep its
shape in tune with changing times.

Streiff and Hall win Fulbrights

Two Washington and Lee
University seniors — Scott W.
Hall of Danville, Va., and
Michael Streiff of Gainesville,
Fla. — have been awarded
Fulbright Scholarships for
graduate study in Europe.

Both Hall and Streiff will use
their scholarships to study in
Germany.

Hall, a chemistry major at
Washington and Lee, will be
studying at the Institute for
Neurobiology in Julich where
he will work under a biochemist
who is conducting research on
vision. Hall has already been
accepted to the Univeristy of
Virginia’s medical school and
will begin his studies there in
1984.

At W&L, Hall has been an
honor roll (3.5 or above grade-
point average on a 4.0 scale)
student. He won the Phi Beta
Kappa Sophomore Award and

the James Lewis Howe Award
in chemistry. He is a member of
Alpha Epsilon Delta, the
premedical fraternity.

A graduate of George
Washington High School, Hall is
the son of Dr. and Mrs. Jack W.
Hall of Danville.

Streiff, a biology major, plans
to use his Fulbright Scholarship
to study microbiology at
the Pettenkopfer Institute in

Munich. He has been accepted
to medical school at the Univer-
sity of Florida and will enter
there in 1984.

At W&L, Streiff has been an
honor roll student and was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He is
a member of the Alpha Epsilon
Delta premedical fraternity.

Streiff is a graduate of
Buckholz High School. He is the
son of Dr. and Mrs. Richard R.
Streiff of Gainesville.

  
   

(Phi photo by Peter Cronin)

 

Alumnus
questions

Wilson on

 

coeducation

 
   

 

Editor’s Note: This letter was
sent to President Wilson by a
W&L Alumnus in November
while Wilson was still Provost at
VPI.

Dear Dr. Wilson:
As a graduate of the Class of
1953 (College) and of the Class
of 1955 (Law), I send you my
hardiest congratulations on
your election as President of
Washington and Lee.

Since we have never met (I
certainly hope to meet you
soon) it is perhaps presump-
tuous of me to ask a favor of
you, but my request is not just
for me but for your daughter,
Sara, and my _ daughter,

 
   
 

 
  

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Morgan, and all the other bright
young women in this world. My
request is that when you next
meet with the Board of Trus-
tees, ask them why Washington
and Lee discriminates against
the admission of women to
Washington and Lee. Ask them
why your daughter, Sara, is not
eligible for admission to
Washington and Lee. Ask them
why their daughters, grand-
daughters and nieces are not
eligible for admission to
Washington and Lee.

Fortunately, our daughters, if
qualified, can attend Yale, Har-
vard, Stanford, . Princeton,
Michigan State, West Point, An-
napolis and every other college
and university in the United
States except for Washington
and Lee, VMI and, I am told, on-
ly three other colleges.

By now, you have probably
heard a great deal about the
character of Robert E. Lee. By
all accounts, he was intelligent,
compassionate and endowed
with a mind that was willing to
adjust to changing situations.
Ask the Washington and Lee
Board whether they think that
General Lee, if alive today,
would discriminate against the
admission of women to Wash-
ington and and Lee.

   
 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, June 2, 1983, Page 3

 

 

Wilson’s agenda

(continued from page 1)

ly required six credits. Wilson
also said the University will
take a close look at the engi-
neering and applied physics
programs.

Regarding a replacement for
Dean of the College William J.
Watt, who is resigning as Dean
to resume full time teaching of
chemistry at the end of next
year, Wilson said, ‘‘a search
committee has been named and
is seeking nominations across
the country.”’

The members of the search
committee are; Dr. H.L.
Boetsch, Dr. S.M.B. Coulling,
Dr. D.G. Elmes, Dr. A.C. Gor-
don, Dr. J.K. Jennings, Dr.
W.L. Sessions, Dean P.H. Simp-
son, Ph.D., Dr. E.W. Spencer,

and Dr. H.T. Williams, with Dr. |

Wilson as the chairman.

“We hope to make a decision
by next fall and get it to the
Board of Trustees for their
meeting in Febuary,” Wilson
said.

eThe Fraternity System

“‘T am not happy with the long
standing practice of the frater-
nities housing sophomores on-
ly,” Wilson said. ‘‘How is it
possible to have a strong in-
dependent fraternity system
with only sophomores living in
the houses?’’

“‘T share the faculty’s concern
about the weakening of the in-
tegrity of the academic week,”’
Wilson said.’ ‘‘Not just Wednes-
day night parties, but we also
have Cockpit parties on Tues-
days, and there is quite a bit of
travel back and forth.”

“I’m not blaming the frater-
nity guys for this,’’ he said. “I
think it is part of the cycle
developing in the Valley.”

“There is nothing wrong with
young people getting together in
the middle of the week,” he
said. ‘But Wednesday night
parties go on too late, people
drink too much and then drive.”

Wilson said he objects to the
“intensity of the thing, when
you have a house jammed with
people and a band with all the
trappings of a weekend party.”

“IT am interested in talking
with the fraternities informally
on this,” Wilson said.

“I think to have Rush at the
first of the year is terrible,
though I haven’t experienced it
here. I have seen it in other
places,”’ he said. “‘I think it is
just not right to plunge fresh-
men into intense social life
before they get their academic
feet on the ground.”

*University Housing

“‘T really want to look careful-
ly at our residential character,”
Wilson said. ‘‘Right now I think
we need more University hous-
ing.”

“In a University of 1700
students, we are housing 600.
That is only 35 percent,’ he
said. “The idea of W&L sug-
gests that we ought to be hous-
ing more.”’

“All I’m interested in is hav-
ing more people live in town
who can take part in the co-
curricular life,” Wilson said.
“There are lots of things going
on in the University and it is
hard for guys living in the coun-
try to contribute.”

¢Student Drug Use

In a recent crackdown by
Commonwealth’s Attorney
Beverly C. ‘“‘John’’ Read, two
Washington and Lee students
have been arrested and charged
with possesion of cocaine with
intent to distribute.

“I’ve talked to both of these
fellows who are now facing
charges of possession with in-
tent to distribute and I told
them that I want to get to know
them as people and find out
what had gotten them into the
position in their lives where
they face prison sentences for
the alleged activity,” Wilson
said.

“T look upon the distribution
of drugs for profit with horror
and I find it appalling, and cer-
tainly I find it inimical to the
health of the University,’’ he
said. ‘‘The policy of the Univer-
sity distinguishes between the
use of and the distribution of
drugs in terms of the severity of
the penalty,’ but it is all il-
legal.”

“There is a certain myopia
we have when we talk about
these things,’ Wilson said. “I
hear from’ knowledgeable
sources that alcohol abuse is a
bigger problem in American
colleges than marijuana.”

“T had a feeling at VPI, when
a dean said, ‘Alcohol is our
number one problem,’ of relief.
This was something familiar,
not beannies or reddies. But
there is no reason to be reliev-
ed,” Wilson said.

“The University is not a sanc-
tuary if there is a warrant and
sufficient cause for investiga-
tion,’’ Wilson said. ‘‘But this is a
community built on trust and
mutual respect and there are
certain circles of privacy in-
volved.”

But, ‘“‘the University is part of
a large society. It subscribes to
the society’s laws,”’ he said.

e Wilson is confident

“I’ve been here five months
and I’ve raised certain ques-
tions about problems I see,” he
said. ‘‘But that does not mean I
don’t have great confidence in
this place.”

“T feel a genuine sense of
privilege in being part of it and I
hope I can contribute some-
thing,’’ Wilson said.

 

 

ae:

W&L President John D. Wilson.‘‘I share the faculty’s concern about the weakening of the integrity of

the academic week.’’ (Phi photo by Peter Cronin)

  

President Wilson’s reply of
‘December, 1982.
(Editor’s note: This is President
Wilson’s reply to the letter from
the alumnus.)

Dear Sir,

You fully anticipate, I’m
sure, my unwillingness to speak
clearly on the issue of coeduca-
tion at Washington and Lee
before I’ve had a chance to live
and work in the community for
awhile. There are things about
the experience of the university
‘that cannot merely be read
| about or talked about. One must
try to get a feel for these things,
the valuable ones and the less
useful ones, too. And this is not
likely to come fully to me until I
am in office and meet more peo-
ple and sense something of the
rhythm of the place. But I will
say these preliminary things at
this stage, as much to clarify
my own perceptions as for any
other reason.

1) I admire the earlier deci-
sions of the Board of Trustees
mainly on the ground that co-
education conversions were be-
ing shabbily rationalized all
over the land in the early seven-
ties (on the specious grounds of
‘naturalism’ or because of ill-
thought-through notions about
the psychology of learning). To
have declared that the universi-
ty had not done badly by its
students over the past two cen-
turies was very much worth do-
ing. I also admire a Board will-
ing to risk running against the
tide...and it was most certainly
a tide!

2) That having been said, I
must also say that the assump-
tion that co-education was a fad
and would be one day be written
off as a temporary aberration,
no longer looks very good. The
demise of the single-sex college
for men is now a given. VMI and
the Citadel are special cases.
Wabash, Hampden-Sydney, and
Washington and Lee may be,
but I do not now know that, i.e. I
don’t know how each is special
and whether they are alike or
different in being special.

 

  

  

Wilson’s thoughts on coeducation

3) The college for men did not
arise from any special theory of
pedagogy. It assumed its
character from the dominant
shape and mores of the society.
It was, as we know, a society
that did not universally believe
in the importance of educating
women. Why should it have
been otherwise? Women did not
vote (ie. were not truly
citizens) and did not enter the
learned professions. When the
women’s colleges came along in
the nineteenth century, most of
them rationalized their founda-
tions on the ground that
educated men needed equally
well educated wives as
helpmates. Citizenship and the
professions came later still. To-
day our society, and all western
societies, see the matter very
differently. This does not
negate the value of the very
good and very interesting in-
stitutions that arose under the
old dispensation. But it does im-
pose upon them the burden of
rationalizing their single-sex
character when the social props
have been kicked out from
under them.

4) It is probably true to say
that Washington and Lee is only
half-hearted in its devotion to
its single-sex character. I
discover no militancy on the
question. The most thoughtful
simply say that the advocates of
change of this sort should carry
the burden of predicting how
the change will make the
university better. This is a good
and hard position, for it un-
covers the truth about change:
in fact, we cannot accurately
predict the future, though we
can make good guesses.

5) Washington and Lee’s lack
of militancy on the question can
be discovered in the number of
women currently enrolled, full-
time, in the University. I refer
not only to the Law School
where there are many female
candidates for the university’s
degree, but also to the
undergraduate programs
where many special students
are enrolled for periods as long

 

    

as a full academic year. They
are denied candidacy for the
baccalaureate degree, the only
explicit discouragement to their
presence I can point to. Their
presence in the university’s
classrooms and on the playing
fields, however, makes more
difficult the defense of the prac-
tice of denying them candidacy
for the baccalaureate degree.
Or so it seems to me at the mo-
ment.

6) The practical questions
associated with co-education
are not trivial ones and warrant
careful thought. I do not believe
a decision to admit women
would necessarily involve
enlarging the size of the univer-
sity. But it most certainly would
entail residence hall space,
athletic accomodations and ad-
ditions or changes in staff (in
the Dean of Students’ Office, in
the Infirmary, in the coaching
staff, etc., etc.) These are not
impediments, mind you, but
necessities that would require
planning and explicit funding.

There are, I am sure, dozens
of things I’ve not thought of or
have chosen not to mention. I do
believe the Washington and Lee
community is currently willing
and able to take up a significant
question of this sort without
chasing false rabbits (e.g. will
women graduates support the
annual fund?) and without all
the posturing that occurred
elsewhere back in the seventies.
It can do so because it has the
confidence that comes from
centuries of successful service
and because the place is healthy
and under no current pressure
from admissions or OCR to ‘do
something.’ I’m also pretty con-
fident that the alumni loyalty is
so deeply grounded that one
would not have to worry about
widespread alienation. These
are the qualities that attracted
me in the first place and I look
forward, more than I can say, to
my move, in January, to Lee
House.

  
      
    
      
         
     
     
       
           
     
   
   
     
     
        
 
   
     
   
       
     
      
      
     
     
     
     
     
   
       
 
        
   
     
    
      
     
     
     
     
         
       
       
   
 
        
 
      
 

John D. Wilson

    
  
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, June 2, 1983

 

Biology professor retires

after 40 years

By STEVE GEARY
and
JIM McCABE
Specials-to-the-Phi

Dr. James Holt Starling will
be retiring as Professor of
Biology from Washington and
Lee University in June 1983.
Professor Starling received his
B.S. and M.S. degrees from the
University of Alabama and his
Ph.D. from Duke University,
where his dissertation involved
ecological and  taxonomical
studies of pauropods of the
Duke forest. Dr. Starling joined
Washington and Lee’s faculty in
1942 and became chairman of
the Premedical Committee in
1963. While at Washington and
Lee, he taught Vertebrate Com-
parative Anatomy and General
Zoology, with particular in-
terest in the morphology of
animals. From 1964 to 1982 dur-
ing Dr. Starling’s chairmanship
of the Premedical Committee,
436 students were placed in den-
tal, veterinary, and medical
schools. This _ statistic
represents the fact that 80.9 per-

Blazing

(continued from page 1)

native. We had to convince our
parents that we wouldn’t get the
bends scuba diving and that we
would not get gunned-down by
some Sandinista rebel.

We landed on an old United
States World War II airstrip in
our Boeing 727. The United
States defended Panama from
Japan with help from troops
stationed on the Galapagos, and
after the war, the United States
tried to lease the islands from
Ecuador, but they turned us
down.

Some South Americans take
pride in alienating themselves
from the United States. I learn-
ed early in the trip not to say I
am an American as if being
American were a nationality.
They consider themselves
Americans too.

cent of the students applying to
professional schools were ac-
cepted.

Last Thursday, Dr. ‘‘Jim”’
Starling was the honoree of a
cocktail party at the Lee House
followed by a dinner in Evans
dining Hall. The evening’s
events were planned in conjunc-
tion with the Biomedical Ethics
Institute held on the following
Friday and Saturday. Of the
over 680 health professions
alumni invited, approximately
35 medical alumni returned to
participate in the joint ac-
tivities along with current
students and faculty. W&L’s
President John D. Wilson spoke
on the developing need for the
formal study of ethics and
morality. He traced the
development of this need from
the scientific revolution, which
began a diversion of man’s em-
phasis on the humanities,
through recent events, Vietnam
and Watergate, that have
undermined our trust in
American government. Presi-
dent Wilson stated his belief
that W&L possesses an at-

Many Ecuadorians don’t ap-
preciate President Reagan’s
Latin American policy. I walk-
ed into the middle of an anti-
U.S. demonstration in Quito.
They had a couple effigies of
Reagan they burned while I
watched.

There is a saying in the
Galapagos that you’ve got to be
crazy to live there. The longer
you are there the more you
believe it.

This year the people aren’t
the only wierd things in the
Galapagos. El Nino, the mass of
warm water and air off the
coast of Central America sits
over the islands. El Nino really
isn’t weird; it usually shows up
every year or so about Christ-
mas time, hence its name which
means, ‘‘the boy child.” It

Cronin)

mosphere that promotes the
development of ethical conduct.
He noted that the Honor System
allows for such an atmosphere
by dealing with transgressions
in an uncompromising and
severe manner. President
Wilson concluded his address
by pointing out that Dr. Starling
has been a leader and teacher of
ethical conduct by his own liv-
ing example.

Dr. Starling spoke to the au-
dience between two standing

usually lasts a few weeks; this
time it stayed for good. People
are blaming it for everything
from the storms washing away
the homes of movie stars in
California to a late hurricane
season in the Carribean.

The Galapagos are desert
islands. During the breeding
season of the galapagos mock-
ingbird two years ago, two inch-
es of rain fell. From January to
April this year there has been
more than 43 inches.

Birds aren’t breeding, and
small fish at the beginning of
the food chain die because their
nutrients remain at the bottom
when the warm E] Nino is on
top.

Plants survive on the ar-
chipelago because they tolerate
long dry spells. Now cactuses

 

 

Seniors

If you are interested in receiving a Phi
next year, fill out this form and give it to
Carole Chappell. We will contact you.

a ee ee ny

 

 

|
|
|
| Address
I
!

 

 

be cir nts neniiention

 

 

 

 

%

 

ovations in his honor. He
preached that, ‘‘The sooner one
can face death, the sooner one
can begin to live life and enjoy
it.”’ Dr. Starling, or ‘“‘Jimbo”’ as
he calls himself in class, will
always be remembered by his
former students. He has the
natural abilities to cut through
the faculty-student gap and,
over the years, to bridge the
generation gap in an effort to
get to know his students.
Always supportive, Dr. Starling

trails and tortoises

topple over because their roots
can’t support their bloated
bodies, and the leaves of the
Palos Santo are falling off
because they’ve had too much
water. -

A couple years ago Galapagos
researchers finished one of the
most important studies in
evolution since Darwin’s Origin
of Species. They concluded that

evolution usually takes steps |

much more rapidly than
previously thought; populations
can change dramatically in
several generations under cer-
tain conditions. They studied
Darwin's finches during several
dry: years when finches suited
for dry weather flourished.
Researchers returned to study
the effect of the dry weather on
the finches, and E] Nino hit.

The islands are perfect for
studying evolution: they are
isolated-virtually no animals
migrate or are imported there,
and if they do show up, they are
easily recognized; human in-
terference is carefully control-
led; and, it is very cheap for
researchers to live there. You
can buy a lobster dinner for
$1.25, and you can mail letters
with nostamps.

Whalers set up a post office on
Floreana Island in the 18th cen-
tury. They put a barrel on a post
and called it The Barrel Post
Office. Sailors would leave mail
in the barrel and passing ships
would stop to check the barrel
and pick up mail on their route.
The island became a major
stopping point for ships in the

   

Dr. James Holt Starling greets wellwishers during festivities in his honor. (Phi Photo by Peter 7

helped students to make high
but realistic goals for
themselves during a period of
uncertainty and decision mak-
ing.

Dr. Starling’s retirement
plans include a trip to northern
Europe with his wife and fre-
quent visits with his son in Mon-
tgomery, Ala. Dr. Starling will
remain active within the
university community.

South Pacific.

Whalers also hunted tor-
toises. The Galapagos Islands
were named after the giant tor-
toises that roam the islands.
Tortoises were valuable cargo
for a ship because they could be
stacked below deck for more
than a year with no food or
water and still remain alive.
The whalers swiped tens of
thousands of tortoises.

The Cachalote, a 60-foot steel-
hulled sailer powered by a
powerful Caterpillar diese!
waited for us at the bottom of
Alcedo, and it motored us from
island to island as we watched
birds, iguanas, and tortoises.

We hiked up Alcedo Volcano
and camped on its rim for two
days. A group of students from
Galapagos III were seriously
lost for a couple of days as they
descended to the shore.

The islands are volcanic.

‘ They rose from the depths of the

Pacific as lava oozed between
plates shifting on the ocean
floor. Moray eels, usually
hiding in crevices in rocks and
coral, cruise around like fish in
the Galapagos. We dove with
the eels and the sea lions mock-
ing us and our clumsy scuba
gear as they’d glide effortlessly
down hundreds of feet as we
watched.

We returned to the States on a
727. The stewardesses returned
to normal, and we could drink
the water again.
