Tl iii‘: ut€l‘~2.lEa3t‘lV Litiﬁitm
WAS?-llNGTON\& L'EE uNivERsﬂtt_
IEXINGTON, VA. 24450 /"‘p

 

ToNs 0’ FUN!

SEP9

Lexington Has More L
To Offer Than Pizzaand
Fraternity Parties

I992;

..

The Generals in Cl nutshell
13

Fall Season
Gets Underway
Next Saturday

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlt‘

VOLUME 91,- FRESHMAN ISSUE

«EC has
work cut
.out for it

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee, W&L’s
student government, must complete
two tasks before students can get down
to business as usual: introducing the
class of 1996 to the Honor System and
organizing the budget.

The EC is made up of 13 students
representing each of the undergradu-
ate and law
classes. New

resentativesare
elected each
spring. Fresh-
men will elect
their represen-
tative this fall.

EC Presi-
dent Josh
MacFarland

 

MacFa rla nd

System orientation for freshmen will

. not change this year, but will be pre-
sented more formally than in the past
few years.

Freshman men are expected to wear
jackets and ties and women should
also dress appropriately for Tuesday's
meeting, MacFarland said.

V ‘ ‘I think the Honor System orienta-
tion is very important,” MacFarland
said. “I want as much seriousness to
the orientation as possible so the fresh-
men realize how integral it is to life
here at W&L.”

MacFarland said the Honor System
orientation for faculty members will

0 be different this year than in previous
years. He said undergraduate and law
students have complained about some
new faculty members disregarding the
Honor System in the past.

This year, each incoming faculty
member received a letter during the

. summer explaining the Honor System
and will attend a special orientation.
Each new faculty member will also
receive a visit from an EC member.

The EC’s next order of business
will be organizing the budget. He said
the activity fee charged to each student

. was raised $15 this year, which will
mean an extra $30,000 available to
student organizations.

“Hopefully some new clubs will
form,” MacFarland said.

All student organizations, such as
sports clubs, service organizations and
specialtyclubs, who want funding will
submit requests and have a chance to
justify their proposed budgets to the

» ' EC. After hearing all requests, the EC

decides how much money to allot to
each group. Last year, the EC allo-
cated about $200,000.
MacFarland also wants to keep a
‘closer watch on the various commit-
tees and organizations the EC over-
sees. MacFarland will be looking care-
fully at the Student Conduct Commit-
tee and the new Student-Faculty Hear-
ing Board, which mediates complaints
about harassment on campus.
0 “I want to make sure they are liv-
ing up to expectations,” he said.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

upperclass rep- ,

said the Honor '

Freshman Orientation Committee Vice Chairman Teresa Williams (left) and Chairman Robert
Wilson paint banners Thursday In preparation for the arrival oi the class of 1996.

New orientation planned

Photo by Leigh Allen, The R/'ng—tum Phi

4 By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi Assistant News Editor

This year’s new and improved freshman orientation
program will give freshmen a better chance to get to
know each other and learn more about W&L than in past

years, according to its plarmers.

Small discussion groups, a professional ice—breaking
group and a new freshman class Record will all serve tu
better orient the freshmen, according to Robert Wilson,
Freshman Orientation Committee chairman.

‘ ‘We felt our orientation was behind the times in
terms of what other schools like W&L are doing,”
Wilson said. ‘ ‘We wanted to give the freshmen a warmer

welcome. ’ ’

The revamped program is the result of me months of
planning by the 42-member committee,

Wilson

ilson said.

The first evidence of the prograrn’s overhaul is the

new Freshman Record, with information about W&L,
its campus and its traditions that has never been included

before, Wilson said.

Sunday night's activity is an icebreaker for the fresh-
man class conducted by Playfair, a professional group
which conducts such events for colleges and businesses
around the country. Wilson said this is the first year a

professional group has been used.
Another new concept is the small discussion groups
which will meet twice during orientation. The groups of

 

freshman class outing, an Adopt-A—Freshman barbecue
and the activities fair.

The goal of the orientation, Wilson said, is to make
the freshmen feel welcome at W&L.

“This should give a better opportunity to meet each
other and absorb the traditions and character of the
school,” Wilson said.

10-15 freshmen with two
upperclass leaders are de-
signed so freshmen can
learn more about the school
and meet classmates in a
setting other than dormi-
tory halls. »
A “The small groups pro-
vide a setting for the fresh-
men to make friends across
» I the class, not just with the
‘ people on their halls,” Wil-
son said.
Wilson said orientation
will include traditional
events as well, such as a

SEPTEMBER 5, 1992

Class of ’96:
Biggest in
W&L history

By LEIGH Ai.Lm
PM News Editor

Washington and Lee's class of 1996
arrives in Lexington this weekend as
the largest in the history of the univer-
sity.

varsity team, up from 91 last year.

While each of the incoming classes
over the last few years has been strong,
Kozak said the quality of the best stu-
dents who choose W&L has been im-
proving.

‘ ‘We're deﬁnitely improving at the
top,’ ’ she said, citing an increase in the

According to number of appli-
the W&L Ad- cants for honor-
missions Office, scholarships.
the435 freshmen The class of
who will ma- ’96 also offers
I r i c u l a t e  ' ’ “ ' '  .- .=-:: ’  W&L strong
W e d n e s d a y ' Appjicams geographic di-
were accepted  .    ~ - ~  -- :.  .. versitywithstu-
from 3 P001 0f Offered Admission dents coming
over   .. .   .     -. from  
cants. ~j Matriculants and 6 foreign

uwevre    .   

ting more very,

 
    
 
  
  

  

 

eluding Canada,

 

 

Very strong StU- p I  . - . . -.  --: .. - Belgium’ Swit-
dents,” said Private School 36% zerland and In-
 Kozak’ as- A. ' : 3' :':-i»‘.‘.':-:3 ' . :»:i:’.» ‘-2 ’ ’- -- ., '   
sociate director * Men/Women 63/ 37°/oj.j' Almoughthe
of admissions. " ’     _» »  ~   competition for
The class > Nallonai  Flnlailsls V  -3:" acceptance to
 31  vaiicailiin.        .49  W&L 
tional M6fll Fi- I 2' strong, the Ad-
 and  -'   ._:.-: ;;:~:_:-':» 2;:-;_ .- : . . -I  J‘  
S1ud<=mS.Wh0ﬁn- ..PV33'.'5’*?‘.‘_'°” Ed“9F$ . , 52. .a points out that
:f.§..$;!}’§f,°i  “l€l9f._9T9PP. Ptesidems   iii“... 
school graduat-  -I  A  I  i A tee admission.
ingclasses.Their 3 i‘ia‘l?[‘a' 3,999.7 ‘°ff‘,’__°.'?‘V   _ While 371
3312353. 132? Key 9'”.b., ,,,,, , §‘X‘}""ie‘¥£Z'l,
H0WeV6r.Ihe ‘ I ' scores below
class of ’96 did 600 were admit-
notlimittheirachievementstotheclass- ted, over 500 applicants with scores

room. Fifty-two students were editors
of a school newspaper, yearbook or
literary magazine.

Most of these figures are similar to
those of the last few incoming classes.
However, the most signiﬁcant change
is on the athletic ﬁeld: 149 members of
the class of '96 were captains of a

higher than 600 were rejected.

A strong college preparatory cur-
riculum was important in helping stu-
dents gain admission. Sixty-three per-
cent of the freshmen have already had
calculus and over 75 percent of the
incoming freshmen took Advanced
Placement courses in high school.

Fraternities, sororities prepare for coming year

By CRAIG BURKE
Phi Staff Writer

Fraternity ﬂags are ﬂying and stu-
dents are wearing shirts with their fra-
ternity and sorority letters, leaving no
doubt that the Greek system plays an
important role in the lives of many
W&L students.

About 85 percent of men at W&L
belong to fraternities. Members say
the Greek system, which includes 15
chapters, allows them to meet more
people than they would otherwise.

Sophomore Torn Day said the fra-
ternity system helped him meet people

far from his home state of Nebraska.

“Being from the Midwest, I knew
very few people here at W&L, ” he
said. ‘ ‘Going through fraternity Rush
allowed me to make a lot of new
friends.”

The lives of most W&L men for the
next few weeks will center around
Fraternity Rush. During Rush, fresh-
men will meet members of the frater-
nities and decide if a fraternity is right
for them, while the fraternity members
will cull through the masses of fresh-
men to find those who would fit in
their brotherhood.

The Interfratemity Council is the
fraternity system's governing body.

Welcome to The Ring—tum Phi

Welcome to the Phi. I'll be your tour guide to your favorite reading material every Thursday.

Here on page one is the most important news going on at Washington and Lee. More news can often be found on page
six, and if it’s a really busy week there could be even more news pages.

Pages two and three are your editorial and opinion pages. This is your place to say what is on your mind and be sure
most of W&L will read it. All you have to do is write a letter to the editor or a My View column and send it to Francesca
Kefalas at the Phi office. The pages will also feature two W&L humor columnists, writing on alternate weeks, and two
nationally syndicated colunmists, George Will and Christopher Matthews.

General Notes and Talkback will also be found on page three. General Notes is a good place to post notices and find
out what’s going on at W&L. Talkback presents the Phi’s question of the week to students like yourself. If you see a big
guy nmning around campus with a camera and asking questions, talk to him. He is Jamey Leonardi and he really wants
to ask you a question and take your picture for Talkback.

Pages four and five are the features pages. They will tell you all about the entertainment and lifestyle aspects of W&L.
Joyce Bautista is dying to hear about anything you think is worthy of a feature spot. There is also an advice column. If
you want good, free advice and can wait until Thursday, just Ask Dr. Worth. You can send questions to University Center

Coordinator Carol Calkins.

Last, but certainly not least, are the sports pages. They'll usually been pages seven and eight. Sean 0 ’Rourke will make
' sure all you need to know about the in-season sports and ‘athletes will be there for your perusal.
Well, there’s the Phi and, just in case you were wondering, below is the football cheer where we our name came from

almost a hundred years ago:

Each other’s back, boys, has got a knack, boys,

For making gains, sir, round the end.

And it’s a sin, sir, for Oberlin, sir, [a W&L player]
To buck the V.M.I. boys’ line so awful hard.

Sure enough.

Then join the yell, boys, and yell like hell, boys,

To W&L U., boys, and football, too, boys,
Let's give a rousing, rumbling, roaring football yell.

Ring-tum phi, stickeri bum,

We are the stuff from old Lexington!

IFC projects this year will include a
new format for accepting ._
bids, or invitations to join _T
a fraternity, and the
completion of Fraternity
Renaissance.

Fraternity Renissance
is a project in which the
administration and the IFC 
have been working to- -'
gether to improve frater- .
nity housing. The fratemi-
ties turn over the deeds of
their houses to the school.
In return, the school makes
much-needed renovations
to the houses.

    

Eubanks

The fraternity house is traditionally
, home for a fratemity’s

i officers and its sopho-
more class, as well as a
place for meetings, par-

ties and meals.
The

sororities.

Panhellenic
Council is the governing
body of W&L’s four so-
rorities. The PHC has a
busy year ahead, as it
looks to sorority Rush in
January and the future of

‘ ‘Panhellenic is going
to concentrate on sup-
porting the leadership of

our newest sorority, Pi Beta Phi, ’ ’ PHC
President Carrie Eubanks said. “We
want to help [its members] along and
aim for the colonization of a fifth so-
rority in 1994.”

Though fraternities have existed at
W&L for over a hundred years, the
first three sororities colonized in 1989,
four years after coeducation. A fourth
sorority was added in January.

The IFC includes a representative
of each fraternity and a slate of officers
elected by those representatives. The
PHC board is made up of a representa-
tive and an alternate from each soror-
ity. The offices rotate each year among
the four chapters.

Catch !

Varsity football coach Gary Fallon tosses a ball to quarterback Geren Steiner during practice
on Thursday. You can catch the Phi tall sports preview on page four.

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Fling-tum Phi

 

  
 

PAGE 2

    

Ellie ‘tiling-tum lﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Looking past
the mountains

In the countryside of western Virginia, nestled among
rolling green pastures spotted with structures of quaint
historic architecture, under skies that are always — well,
usually — blue, lies the picturesque community of Lexing-
ton.

Not many people live in Lexington; a lot just pass through.
For those who stop on a clear day, especially those from the
big city, the town's horizons are a sight to behold.
Mountaintops litter the view, rising to meet the clouds.
Seemingly unchanging from year to year, the mountains can
give the people of Lexington a sense of serenity and secu-
rity; quiet sentinels, they watch over usand protect us.

But the same mountains that keep out the big-city hedo-
nism and give Lexington its small-town spirit can also seal
off the community from the outside world.

The same time the United States and its allies began to
assault Iraq in Operation Desert Storm in January, 1991,
CNN began an assault on Lexington. A rude and uninvited
guest, the Cable News Network disrupted our daily lives

‘with news from the “outside.” We cared because our broth-

ers and sisters were going to war. We were drawn into the
affairs of the outside world.

But when the L.A. riots happened in May, not much
notice was taken at W&L. L.A. is far away, and students
don’t know many people there. And the riots concerned the
issue of race, an issue to which W&L is not exceptionally
sensitive. Here in Lexington, it was easy to close our
shutters, tune out our televisions and gaze at our mountains.

The temptations for a W&L student like yourself to turn
your back on the outside world will be enormous. You will
have academic and extracurricular obligations, and in all
that, you might want to squeeze some kind of social life. In
Lexington, there isn’t a newspaper stand on every comer,
and the local paper covers only local news. You can‘t get
television without cable, so you won't see much of Peter
Jennings in the coming months.

Here at The Ring—tum Phi we will help sometimes by
covering local tie-ins to stories and issues from the outside
world. But our primary function is to cover W&L. We have
neither the space nor the resources to give you a full picture
of what’s going on out there.

So we ask you to keep one recommendation in mind as
you enrich your life for the next four years at W&L: don’t cut
yourself off. Don’t give in to the enormous temptation to
live in a Lexington vacuum. Make an effort to read a
newspaper, a Washington Post or New York Times, at least
once a week. Find a television somewhere to take in the
national news every now and then. Make an effort to talk
about the news with your peers. Stimulate your mind by
meeting new people and joining new extracurricular groups.
Socialize with people from all walks of campus; don’t get
caught in a social rut. Remember that you came to W&L not
to view the world in a new way, but in a thousand new ways.

Of course, we don’t want you to go too far in the other
direction, either. When the problems of the world seem to be
weighing on your shoulders, trapped somewhere in your
backpack among the hundreds of pages of reading you’ll be
be tested on the next day; when the dorm halls are ﬁlled with
the revelry of those students who just never seem to have as
much homework as you do; and when it seems you can‘t
count on anyone or anything to be consistent from one day
to the next; there’s one sureﬁre way to forget your woes, at
least for a little while: go outside and look at the mountains.

OPINION

M ILL. _
"zg H4\".'rzr

/"I /(4
NEE.) \(DJlZ.

'M‘3’¢£
zo writs‘

'.> z'f\/TON ’ ‘
”‘ 'E.TA5.‘

The Ring-tum Phl, September 5, 1992

P3esNl\r>r»r'r IKM 'I""l
IN/JlL§A(:.N gANEK 305'

3 TJALL-Y
L FOK
You -ro c.o~tE

gut’ DWI
n~ro;;§,,,,.

NEED HELP’
mil )’°“2 ENTER 1 H5

 DLLMS .

z€,(,lSTlATrer‘
EEFDEE Y0”

r‘~\ '50“ "" I,
l-’«'<E€HW<" "‘ P

Ah”) 1 ;AND I'M D0 ‘(D9
  
xi
Mo»: )i"C“A'E gut! A
ﬁg VJ DEE

\ 7
.Li (.A  gLoCK'

Mix in the madness

MY VIEW

By Dennis G. Manning

Seneca, Latin moralist and philosopher,
claimed that, “There is no genius without a
mixture of madness.” I am assuming that all
freshmen admitted to W & L -- with the impri-
matur of our admissions ofﬁce — are certifiable

I recall one of my hallmates my
freshman year, whom we
thought of as an intellectual,
gulping down a Siamese fight-
ing fish for a $10 wager.... These
were the same people who whiled
away hours upon hours discuss-
ing poetry and politics, Keats
and Kant, Christianity and athe-
ism.

geniuses (or is it genii?) and therefore they will
ease into the classroom faster than a colt breaks
into its first canter. Well okay, those first steps
may look a little wobbly, but a smoother gait
always ensues.

But what about this mixture of madness —
this essential ingredient in genius? I remember
my brush with genius as a freshman. I recall one
of my hallmates my freshman year, whom we

Freshman year brought boxers

thought of as an intellectual, gulping down a
Siamese ﬁghting ﬁsh for a $10 wager. Or what
about another one of my intelligent “friends”
who displayed a clear glass bottle in his room
filled with lint he collected from his navel?
(These people actually exist: one is a successful
attorney and the other a promising film director.)

These were the same people who whiled

away hours upon hours discussing poetry and -

politics, Keats and Kant, Christianity and athe-
ism, thinking all the time they were closing in on
genius-level status while one failed to complete
his reading of the first three acts of King Lear for
a British literature survey and the other neglected
his analysis of the Krebs’ Cycle for an introduc-
tory biology course.

But madness — frivolity, if that makes you
more comfortable — must have certain limits or
else genius will never be begotten. I won’t pre-
tend to be able to deﬁne those limits —- ﬁsh and
lint may not seem too terribly mad to you. Walk
gingerly to those limits —— don’t move breakneck
at them or, before you can right yourself, spin out
of control and beyond them. Don’t forget your
own mortality, your own vulnerability.

Tragedy and gaiety; terror and beauty; (ge-
nius and madness?); what Yeats called antinomies
are the mysterious core in each of us, reminding
us of our own mortality. The ivory tower is a
refuge where such thoughts about time are out of
mind. Where or when else does such an inter-
weaving of genius and madness make students at
times seem younger (or less mature?) than they
actually are, and graybeards, like me, feel less
decrepit than we should? I know you will, as all
freshman classes seem to do, invigorate us with
your youthfulness and show us the right “mix—
ture of madness!”

Dennis G. Manning is dean of freshmen.

Welcome «

to ayear

ofchangesl

ASK DR. WORTH

By Dr. James Worth .

Q. What can you say to the incoming freshmen that
might ease their transitions into W&L?

A. A few freshmen seem to make the transition with

virtually no anxiety, no self-doubt, no homesickness, no.

backward glances or concerns about the future. These are
the exceptions. Most of you, whether you talk about it or
not, will find your enthusiasm and excitement at least
somewhat tempered by the need to face new academic and
social demands and to accept the changes that are occurring
as you move beyond the relationships and routines of high
school days.

The following are a few thoughts which might help you ’

along the way:

(1) Trust the selection process. You wouldn’t be
here unless out Admissions staff, a very competent and
experienced group,
hadn’tdeterrnined you
have what it takes to
survive at W&L.
Maybe not everyone
can consistently be on
the Dean's List but in
my experience every-
one who has been ac-
cepted has the intel-
lectual juice to gradu-
ate, provided they put
in the necessary effort.

(2) If you are
willing to take the risk
of extending yourself,
you can make friends

Worth can be submit-
ted in person or
anonymously to either
Room 128 of the Uni-

Carol Calkins in the
University Center.

here, no matter who Q

you are. Don’t expect 100 percent success. Not everyone
you meet will be available for friendship. There may be
disappointments. But no matter what your interests, your
biases, your predilections, or for that matter your.shortcom-
ings, there are others out there who will connect with you
and like you. The only catch is that you have to be available.
If you don’t take the risk to extend yourself sincerely for
friendship, perhaps for fear of not being accepted, you will
greatly increase the likelihood of being lonely or isolated.
_ (3) The biggest single threat to succeeding here
academically is poor time management. Few come to
campus with really good time-management habits. If you
find_ you are doing low-importance tasks but are not com-
pleting high-importance ones, if you regularly feel there
simply aren't enough hours in the day, if you seem often to
be ‘ ‘a day late and a dollar short, ’ ’ these are signs you need
to improve your time-management skills.

If so, talk to somebody about it. Go to a successful
upperclass student, your major advisor, the two counselors
on campus or most any dean. The hardest part is realizing
you are deﬁcient in these skills and need assistance.

(4) Don’t spend much time worrying about what
you should major in or what your ultimate career choice
will ‘be. If you do happen to know these things, that's fine.
But if you don’t, it’s O.K. Find books, classes and activities
that interest you. See what stimulates your curiosity. Ex-
periment. Read a book or take a class simply because it
interests you, not because it is required. As you follow your
interests, your life direction will emerge.

(5) Think of ways you can give things back to the
community, both W&L and the larger Lexington commu-
nity.'Ihere are many ways to give. Both on- and off-campus
groups exist which you can join that contribute to the well-
being of the folks here. What you will discover, I believe,
is that the more you give, the more meaningful your
experience here will be.

(6) Make a point of getting to know your profes-
sors personally, especially the ones you like best. Believe
it or not, the majority of them are not merely available but
eager to know you , particularly if you are not “apple
polishing" but are genuinely interested in them and their
courses.

About the Phi .

The Ring-tum Phi, W&L's

uestions to Dr.‘

versity Center or to’

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlti‘

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joshua Manning

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Leigh Allen

Assistant News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Whitney Swiﬁ

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published’ Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appearin that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity. .

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

ONE GUY’s OPINION
By Chris Citron

I'm curious ladies. Which do you
prefer: boxers or briefs? It’s been
buggin’ me since my freshman year,
and I don’t think that a definite conclu-
sion has yet arisen.  let's talk about
it.

When I ﬁrst came to W&L, I must
admit that boxers were not an integral
part of my wardrobe. I was a briefs
man. In fact, to go along with my
already established cheesy reputation,
I took briefs one step further.

I'm sorry, but yes, I owned the
Saturday Night Fever colored bikini
briefs. Everyone knows what I’m talk-
ing about.) Those red and blue and
green and black and striped (well, you
do need variety) “nut huggers” — as
someone so decently told me once -—
that you try to avoid looking at as you
walk through the men's department at
Macy's while thousands of manne-
quins border the aisles, proudly dis-
playing some patterns that could only
have been thought of under a really
bad acid trip. However, it’s what I
wore, and I was not only proud to wear

 

“Now can 400 9° _‘
-{Hg 17; I-{oU&s5LF.2

them, but anxiously awaited a call to
model them .in Macy’s.

Now, my roommate was from Ala-
bama. Needless to say, our styles didn't
exactly coincide. In fact, although I
was shocked to learn that he did not
own apair of briefs, I think that he was
a bit more surprised the first time he
saw my collection.

Roommate (laughing hysterically
and continuously for six minutes):
“Why would you do that to yourself?”

I've got to admit that I was a bit
caught.off-guard by his reaction, but
once I understood that he was not
laughing at apart of me, but rather my
underwear, I had to answer him. In
retrospect, I’ve come up with two an-
swers:

1) Boxers are for old men who no
longer need to hook up with girls. (Not
that I did any better....)

2) I liked being able to feel that
something was there. (How much/little
is irrelevant.) There was some security
knowing where my guy was all the
time.

However,myroomrnate piqued my
interest, and I was curious about these
“boxer things.” I defiantly protested
his suggestion to trying a pair, defend-

  
 

ing that it was impossible for boxers to
fit well under pants, and that my guy
might roam to places not suitable for
him without protection. (I don’t even
know what that means, so whatever
your evil little minds come up with is
fine with me.)

So, one day when I was... out of
underwear (Okay, so maybe I’ve got a
problem dressing in other guys’
clothes. So what? That would be a
psychological problem, if a problem at
all, and does not concern this argu-
ment.), I tried a pair of his boxers.

What an experience! I was a walk-
ing erection all day! It felt way too
good. Y’know, like sleeping in the
sheets naked by yourself. It just feels
way too good to be safe.

What do I do now? I think I like
them. So I wear them again. And again.
And again. Eventually, I had to wash
them, but each time I got alittle more

used to it. Now I can almost walk to -

class without getting aroused. Not bad
for about two years, heh?

Where does that leave us? It leaves
us with a disgusting story of how a
cheesy guy from New Jersey (N O, that
is not necessarily redundant!) ﬁnally
gota little bito’ class. And I do proudly
admit that I am a complete boxer con-
vert, having thrown out my last pair of
Bruts two years ago after a revolting
display of dancing took place in my
room by a fat guy. But is our question
answered? Of course not. In this col-
umn it never will be.

However, I know girls who love
boxers and hate “tighty-whities.” I
know girls who love briefs and can't
stand boxers. And finally, I know girls
who don’t care either way and ﬁgure
that it’s not the packaging, but the
package.

ofﬁcial student newspaper.
is published each Thursday

of the undergraduate calen-‘ ,

dar, except in the weeks prior
to and during exams.

Copies of the Phi are free
to W&L students and em-
ployees, and can be picked
up outside the Generals Head-
quarters in the University
Center and in the library.

The Phi is funded in part
from student activities fees,

with most of the operating "

costs coming from advertis-
ing revenues and subscrip-
tions to parents and alumni.
The Publications Board
chooses Phi editors and busi-

ness managers annually. 0

All students are welcome
to report, sell ads or contrib-
ute letters and columns’ for
The Ring-tum Phi. Letters

and columns are edited for g

grammar, libel and obscen-
ity only.

Any student interested in
working for the paper or just
learning more about the Phi
is invited to attend an orien-
tation meeting Wednesday,
Sept. 9 at4 p.m. in Room 203
of Reid Hall.

 

    
 

Town

of .

1

 

1

The Ring-tum Phl, September 5, 1992

‘Things to do in Lex

offers array of sights and activities

.,............,......... .3,-,-3.-..

By Jorca Baunsn
Phi Features Editor

Surrounding the conﬁnes of the
Washington and Lee campus lies the
sleepy historical city of Lexington.
Though small, the city offers plenty

‘for students to do and see during their
four-year stay.

The area’s specialty shops and res-
taurants are only a few minutes’ walk
from campus. The shops offer a wide
array of gifts and necessities.

Whenthedininghalland Domino's

Yizza have taken their toll, local res-
taurants offer dishes from fettucine
alfredo to came asada burritos.

For entertainment, The Fast Lane
bowling alley is located north on Route
1 1. Farther down Route 11 is a drive-
in theater to fill those sometimes un-

Oeventful weekend nights during the
early fall and spring.

For newer movies in a quaint the-
ater, try the State Cinema on Nelson
Street. And for those of you with ac-
cess to a VCR, Rockbuster and Be-
yond Video, both off Route 60, have a

Odecent selection of old and new ﬂicks.

If the munchies hit at 3 a.rn., you
could always stop atLee-Hi Truckstop,
past the drive-in on Route 11. You
can't miss it — the semis are a dead
give-away. Lee-Hi offers breakfast,

The Chessle Nature Trail
stretches from VMI island to
ZImmerrnan's Lock.

lunch and dinner selections 24 hours a
day, and prices are perfect for students
on a budget.
..._. The nation-

 . ally renowned
'  _ ‘ Virginia Horse
,_' Center, located

‘ V on U.S . 1 1,
houses facilities
for horse
shows, educa-
tional seminars

   

and horse sales.
The theater at Lime Kiln offers
I..exington citizens original profes-
sional productions in a setting that has
been called ‘ ‘the most unusual theater
setting in the United States.’ ’
W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Per-
forming Arts hosts
professional and
student produc-
tions throughout

FEATURES

on East Washington Street, next to the
Centel office.

One of the highlights on the ride is
the Stonewall Jackson House. The
house belonged to the famous Confed-
erate general and is a registered na-
tional landmark. Jackson was also a
professor of natural philosophy (now
knownasphysics) atthe Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

Like W&L, VMI also has a rich
history and an abundance of notewor-
thy sites.

VMI was the first state-supported
military college. Opened in 1839, dis-
tinguished professors and alumni in-
clude Jackson, Matthew Fontaine
Maury and George C. Marshall.

The George C. Marshall Museum

is located on the
southern end of

The VMI Museum,lo- VM” P‘““d°

ground. This mu-

the year. Most of cated on the opposite seumandresearch

the programs are

library houses the

freeorofferedata end of the parade WorldWarIIU.S.
reduced price to ground, highlights the chief of staff’s

students.

personal papers as

N e a r b y history of the institute well as a collec-

Goshen Pass is a
favorite spot for

tion of material

and houses Jackson’s ,e1a,ing ,0 US.

students enjoying horse, Little Sorrell, who military and dip-

the scenic Maury

lomatic history of

Rim, For years, is stuffed and mounted the 20:11 century.

students have
tubed and pic- there‘ '

The VMI Mu.-
seum, located on

nicked at this spot

of natural beauty. It is also a great
place for canoeing, ﬁshing and trail
walking.

The Chessle Nature Trail begins at
VMI Island and is popular with run-
ners and hikers. Bird and wildﬂower
lovers will enjoy the abundant natural
wonders. The trail ends at
Zirnmerrnan's Lock near Route 60.

The breathtaking views seen from
the Blue Ridge Parkway have attracted
millions of visitors from around the
world. The parkway spans 470 miles
and four states. It can be accessed on
Route 60 near Buena Vista.

Further from the immediate area,
The Homestead Resort provides ski-
ing and ice skating in the winter. Un-
der 30 minutes away is Natural Bridge,
advertised as the “seventh wonder of
the world.”

For a better feel for the history of
Lexington, the city offers carriage tours
for $8 beginning at the Visitor Center

the opposite end of
the Parade Ground, highlights the his-
tory of the institute and houses
Jackson’s horse, Little Sorrell, who is
stuffed and mounted there.

Also on the VMI campus is a fa-
mous sculpture of Jackson created by
artist Edward Valentine and the sculp-
ture “Virginia Mourning Her Dead,”
honoring cadets killed in the Civil War.
Valentine was also the sculptor of the
reclining Robert E. Lee found in Lee
Chapel.

Yet anotherhistoric site is the Stone-
wall Jackson Memorial Cemetery. Lo-
cated on South Main Street, it grew
around Lexington Presbyterian
Church.

The cemetery is the burial ground
for several famous Lexingtonians and
their families as well as hundreds of
Revolutionary and Civil War veter-
ans. A statue of J ackson, completed by
Valentine in 1891, stands in the center
of the site.

  
  
 
  
  
 

Studying lnthesun onthe Maury
River is a good way to shake oft
those winter blues Spring Term.
This has been a favorite sun-
bathing and plcnicking spot
among students for years.

File Photos

Girls rollerskate under the
watchful eye of Gen. stonewall
Jackson In the cemetery that
bears his name.

  
 

The drive-In down Route 11 ot-
ters second-run movies stu-
dents can enjoy In an outdoor

- settln.

C

‘.

‘ O

0

 ~'»-_

..:,.~‘4't'rx .. «

Fret no more!!

 5'77"‘.  ':"'r,7‘"::rr*'r'r'::*~. ’?'?T' 7'.’-“‘* *1‘ 7" " ' 

Dreading all thoseletteirs home?  
The taste of stamps?
Rehashing everything that happened

in the past week?

The Ring—tum Phi will do it foryoull

;Have your parents buy a $25 year—long
subscription to W&L’s student newspaper

\

O

. . .And you won't have to write!..

Subscription forms are available in the University Center or call
The Ring-tum Phi office at 463-8581.

 

 

  Welcome

Freshmen

PAGE 4

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Elie iﬁing -tum iﬂlti

SPORTS

This Week:

Football vs. Emory&Henry 9/12 ,
Water Polo— W&L Classic 9/12-13
Golf— W&L lnvlt. 9/l 1-12

SEPTEMBER 5, 1992

Fall teams lookto improve on 191 perfoances

By SEAN O'RoUiu<£
Phi Sports Editor

Your eyes are probably glancing
over this page through the
waterfall of sweat falling
off your brow and tears of
pain from strained
muscles only a Latin ma-
jor could pronounce.

You are now one of
themanytiredparticipants
in the freshman-moving-
in game. This event is
played out yearly on carn-
puses all across the coun-
try, but at least here you can take a
break and read an early edition of the
school newspaper.

Obviously you are somewhat inter-
ested in sports or else you would have
tossed this paper by now. If you are at
all interested, this is the column for
you. The Washington and Lee fall

sports season is right around the cor- V

ner and now is the time to provide you

 

with a general, no pun intended, pre-
view of what to expect.

First of all, a little background for
you on W&L sports. Our nickname is
the Generals and we are NCAA Divi-

sion III, exclusively. We
belong to the Old Do-
minion Athletic Confer-
ence, ODAC. Some of
our chief rivals in the con-
ference are the Hampden-
Sydney Tigers, the
Roanoke Maroons and
the Randolph-Macon
Yellow Jackets.
The fall action begins
Saturday afternoon, Sept.
12, as the Generals football team hosts
the eighth consecutive opening day
match-up with the Emory & Henry
Wasps. The Generals are winless in
the past seven and have not beaten the
Wasps since a 21-15 victory in 1982.

TheGeneralsare comingoffarough
1991 campaign. They posted a 1-9
record and were 0-5 in ODAC play.
They have a favorable schedule this

File photo

Leslle Hess spikes it past the outstretched arms of two
Emory&Henry players. The Generals are looking to improve on an
11-21 record with an interim coach.

 

year with five home games and only
four away, with a bye week after the
Emory & Henry game. But it all
begins with the Wasps at 1:30 p.m. at
Wilson Field.

The water polo team returns to the
pool Sept. 12-13 for the Washington
and Lee Fall Classic. The tournament
will be held in the Cy Twombly Me-
morial Pool in the Warner Center.

The Generals finished 15-10, the
15th consecutive above .500 season.
Under the guidance of head coach Page
Remillard, the Generals have been
Southern Water Polo Conference
Champions four times and rtmner-up
five times in 13 years. Remillard’s
stint as head coach has produced an
astounding 266-127-l record.

The men’s soccer team also had a
successful 1991 season. After ﬁnish-
ing 7-8-2 in 1990, the Generals re-
bounded to post a respectable 8-6-2
record, 4-3 in ODAC play. The Gener-
als reached the semifinals of the ODAC
tournament, onlytolose to soccerpow-
erhouse Virginia Wesleyan 1-0.

The Generals open their 1992 sea-
son with the Franklin and Marshall
Tournament Sept. 12-13. W&L won
last year’s tournament in an exciting
shoot-out. The team does not play in
front of the home crowd until Sept. 23
when they take on Guilford College.
That game is scheduled for 4 p.m. at
Liberty Hall Fields.

The women’s 1991 soccer season
was identical to the men’ s. The women
ﬁnished 8-6-2 and lost in the semiﬁ-
nals of the ODAC tournament to
archrival Roanoke College 1-0 in over-
time. The women lost six players to
graduation and a few others left the
team after last season. They now ﬁeld
a team with 17 girls.

The Generals open their season on
the road at Va. Wesleyan on Sept. 12.
Their first home game is Sept. 18
against ODAC foe Hollins College at
Liberty Hall Fields at 4 p.m.

One of the fall teams to undergo
drastic changes is the women’svolley-
ball team. They lost three girls to gradu-
ation and a coach. Four-year head coach
Susan Dittrnan is taking a one-year
leave of absence. So, W&L went out
and got one of the best players ever to
play for the University of Arizona
Wildcats.

Over the summer W&L hired Kritsti
Yarter, a May graduate, as an interim
coach . Yarter was afour-year letterman
for’ Arizona and ranked at or near the
top in almost every volleyball cat-
egory. She finished fourth in career

 

File photo

William Propst hauls in one of his 37 catches from last year. The Generals need a strong performance a
from its offense to compliment the talented defensive squad.

kills with 1,044 and second in blocks
with 276.

Yaiter has her work cut out for her
as the Generals come off a disappoint-
ing 11-21 year. The team opens 1992
at Christopher Newport College on
Sept. 12. They return home to host the
Washington and Lee Invitational Sept.
18-19 in the Warner Center.

The last of the fall teams to open
their new season are the men's and
women’s cross country teams. Both
teams open at home against Mary
Washington College on Sept. 19.

The men come off an impressive 8-

1 mark last year but they lost six rim-
ners, including standout Charles
Edwards. However, senior Bo Hannah
returns for his final season as the one to
watch for the men.

The women also lost four runners
to graduation, but return a host of
strong runners who competed heavily
last year. They are looking to improve
on 1991 ’s 5-3 finish.

Finally, the men’s golf team hosts
some of the top golf teams in Division
III in the Washington and Lee Fall
Invitational. The two-day event be-
gins Sept. 1 1 at the Lexington Country
Club. Their season does not officially
begin until the beginning of spring.

Well, there it is m a nut shell. A list
of the best W&L has to offer this fall in
terms of athletics. So, enjoy your year
and have fun moving the rest of the
stuff into the dorms, especially those
on the fourth floor of Graharn-Lees.

Until next week, Adios!

File photo

Goalie P.J. Walcus anchorsthe Generals water polo defense. W& L
is striving for its 16th straight winning season and a Southern
Conference championship.

Let’s talk.

Do you want to be ‘

just anotherstudent?
Or do you want to make   §

I

  _z.-1 difference? .

The Ring-tum Phi has staff positions open for: beat and general assignment reporters,

photographers, photo editor, computer graphics artists, editorial, page assistant, and ad
salesmen. To find out what a job with the Phi can do for you, come to the info session
for all freshmen, and we’ll talk afterward. Or contact the Phi: 3-8581 or Univ. Ctr. 208. v

WED the 9th, REI

 

203, 4 pm '

 

 
    
   

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

WASI-IINGTON‘x& LEE UNIVERSITY

I 9214450 /

WHAT A RusH!

W&L Students Offer Their Tips
for Having the Time of Your Life
During Fraternity Rush

Can the Generals
endpthe drought?
W&L Looks to End E&H's D

  

..l

Catch the Renaissance update inside 9

C112 ‘tiling-tum Iﬂlii

' OLUME 92, NO. 1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

0

By JOSHUA MANNING
Phi Managing Editor

If you need to get to duPont Hall this term, don’t take the

Colonnade. The hole in the ground blocking the way will
Que there for a while.

The future Watson Gallery, which will ﬁll that hole, is
slated for completion in February.

University Coordinator of Capital Planning Frank Par-
sons said the project looks behind schedule, but the pro-
jected completion date has not been changed. A

Until then, Parsons said, people will just have to walk

around it.

‘ ‘Building the library shut down all the back campus for
several years,” Parsons said. “You can endure it. It's not
always pleasant, but you can’t build a building without
inconvenience.”

The Watson Gallery, an extension of the Reeves Center,
is will house a collection of antique Chinese furniture, jade

upieces and porcelain donated by Mrs. William Watson,
whose husband was a 1929 W&L graduate. The collection
is valued at over $6 million.

Besides shifting the campus traffic patterns, Parsons
said the greatest problems created by the construction site
will be the noise and dust cast on the nearby buildings, the

 

allery takes shape 

most affected area being the ﬁve classrooms on the fourth
ﬂoor of Tucker Hall.

While the most noisy and dusty phase of the project,
excavation, has now been completed, air conditioners
have been installed in the Tucker classrooms to combat the
problem while classes are in session.

Professor Laurent Boetsch, head of the Romance lan-
guages department, said faculty members working in
Tucker are happy with that solution.

Boetsch said a planning group anticipated the noise
problem last spring.

“We simply would not be able to teach with the
windows closed [due to the heat]," Boetsch said. “And
certainly we could not leave them open due to the noise and
dust."

The language departments brieﬂy considered cancel-
ing all classes on Tucker's fourth ﬂoor, possibly shifting
them into extra rooms in Parmly Hall and the Military
Science building. But Boetsch said. that solution was
rejected.

Construction of the gallery, which is being funded by a
separate donation from Watson, will not go- over its
$800,000 budget, University Treasurer Lawrence Broomall
said.

‘ ‘I’ve been told by the Board of Trustees that it won’t”
go over budget, Broomall said. “Therefore, it will not.”

City enters voting dispute
with letter to college students

on the left, workers
raise the frame on the
future Watson Gallery.

Photos by Leigh Allen, The Ring -um P I

The sidewalk from the Colonnade to duPont Hall
will remain blocked until February.

 
 

SEPTEMBER 10, 1992

Hughes
not
indicted

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

indict former W&L senior Richard Hughes on attempted
rape charges.

Hughes, who was a senior last year, had been charged
with attempting to rape Jodi Schaubach, a 20-year-old
Sweet Briar College student, on May 10 at the Phi
Gamma Delta house.

Hughes’ diploma was being withheld pending the
completion of the case, but Dean of Students David
Howison said ‘
Wednesday the
faculty will prob-
ably deal with the
matter at its next
regular meeting.

Howison said '
it is formal faculty policy to withhold the degree of any
student charged with a felony.

In Hughes’ preliminary hearing in Rockbridge County
General District Court June 30, visiting Judge James
Joines denied a motion by the defense to dismiss the
charges, but he told prosecutor Eric Sisler the case was
not a strong one, according to local newspaper accounts..

“I’d hate to be on the jury that convicts him with the
evidence that I’ve heard,” Joines said.

we essrclraubaelrtestifred in-lune thatshespent theevening
of May 10 at a party at the Fiji house trying to avoid
Hughes, whom she already knew. Shortly after midnight,
she said, Hughes, a member of Fiji, pulled her into a
room, forced her onto a bed, lay on top of her and started
to pull her clothes off in an attempt to have sex with her.

CI W&L, SBC students react
to decision. See page 6

El See HUGHES, page 6

A Rockbridge County grand jury Tuesday refused to

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Acting Executive Editor

t It looked like the bitter battle between students and the
_ city registrar over voter registration was ﬁnally over. Then,
last Thursday, Lexington City Council threw its hat into the
. ring.
After a circuit-court order in May upholding City Regis-
‘ trar Lucille Joyce's refusal to register second-year law
student Chris Kowalczuk to vote in Virginia, Kowalczuk
filed his intent to appeal to the Virginia Supreme Court.
!But that appeal died 55 days later when Kowalczuk failed
to ﬁle a required statement explaining his side of the case,
Rockbridge County Circuit Court Clerk Bruce Patterson
. said. So the courts endorsed Joyce's decision-making.
That case struck a blow to one of Mayor H.E. “Buddy”
' Derrick Jr.’s defenses of Lexington’s tax on student cars,
which applies even to students who do not vote in the city.
oWhen students complained about taxation without repre-
‘ sentation in the fall of 1991, Derrick said that students who
M did not like the tax could register to vote and oust him from
ofﬁce.

The City Council then adopted a policy to encourage
student voting, City Manager T. Jon Ellestad said. Now the
council is publishing its policy in the form of open letters in
The Ring-tum Phi and the Virginia Military Institute student
newspaper. .

Joyce worked with Ellestad to prepare the letter, but she

. later opposed City Council’s involvement in the issue.

“The City Council has nothing to do with registration,”

- Joyce said Tuesday.
_ The letter encourages students to carefully consider
vﬁiere they want to register. It also tells students what

questions to expect when registering.

“The registrar does have the authority to ask questions
beyond what the application requests,” the city’s letter says,
“as long as the registrar does not single out one class of
applicants such as students, young people, or a particular
racial group.”

The controversy about who may vote stems from, the
word “domicile," which is not clearly deﬁned in the Code of
Virginia.

The law puts two requirements on people seeking to vote
in Virginia. They
must have a “place
of abode” and be
domiciled where
they apply. . _

In determining
domicile, the law
says that “consid-
eration may be
given” to the
applicant's ﬁnan-
cial independence, income taxes, marital status, parents’
residences and registration of personal property, like a car.
But the decision is ultimately the local registrar’s.

In Kowalczuk’s case, Joyce said he had not paid state
taxes or registered his car in Virginia when he applied for
residency.

But Kowalczuk said in May that he is ﬁnancially inde-
pendent, has a Virginia driver’s license and last lived in his
former home, Ohio, in 1980.

Kowalczuk would not comment for this story.

Thecar tax is allowed under Virginia law if the car is kept
in Lexington the majority of the ﬁscal year. The tax is 4.25
percent of the value of the car.

D Lexington City Council
writes an open letter to stu-
dents on voting registration
procedures. See pae 2

Will tospeak at Convocation Friday

The Ring-tum Phi. He won a Pulitzer

 

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

George F. Will, syndicated colum-
nist and author, will speak at Washing-
ton and Lee's Opening Convocation
Friday at 11 a.m. in Lee Chapel.

Convocation is usually held on the
first day of undergraduate classes to
honor the senior class, but this year’s
service was delayed to accommodate
Will’s schedule.

Following Will’s speech, the fac-
ulty will hosta luncheon for the seniors
on the front lawn.

Will’s column appears in 470news-
papers across the country, including

Prize in 1977 for commentary.

In addition to being a television
news analyst for ABC News, Will oc-
casionally appears on “World News
Tonight” and “Nightline.” He is also
a regular guest on “This Week with
David Brinkley.”

Will is the author of Statecraft as
Soulcraft, The New Season: a
Spectator’: Guide to the 1988 Elec-
lion. and Men at Work: The Craft of
Baseball.

A 1962 Trinity College graduate,
Will received his master's and doctor-
ate degrees in politics from Princeton.
From 1973 to 1976, Will was editor of
The National Review .

on

    

File photo

A fraternity member calls out the names of freshmen before Open Houses during a past Hush.

Hush: ‘Not just girls and beer’

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Ninety percent of freshman men are I

expected to participate when fall Rush
begins with an IFC-sponsored band in
the freshman quad Friday afternoon.

Interfratemity Council President
Sam Rock said he expects a successful
rush because of the large number of
men in the freshman class.

‘ ‘It could work out to be almost 16
guys per house,” Rock said. “That's
more than in the last few years.”

Rock said the Rush schedule will be
similar to last year's. However, Tear
Night will differ from those in past
years, Rock said, so as to decrease the
number of injuries caused by excessive
drinking.

Rock saidTear Night will begin at 5
p.m. on the last Friday of Rush with an
alcohol-free party where bids will be
accepted, followed by a band party
from 8 p.m. until midnight.

IFC Vice President Tom Washmon
warned fraternity members and rush-
ees against violating the IFC contact
rules.

IFC rules prohibit contact between
freshmen and fraternity members ex-
cept during fonnal Rush functions and
“open contact” periods.

Fraternities can be lined up to $500
and a freshman could lose his rush
privileges for a first-offense violation,
Rock said.

Rock said freshmen should keep an
open mind about the houses and meet
as many people as possible.

“The best fraternity for you might
not be the one that throws the best
parties,” Rock said. “It’s not just
about girls and beer."

‘ ’  Says who? The Princeton
Review's Student Access Guide to
Best Colleges, » which came out
Tuesday.

, In addition to the usual college
guidebook information, the book
includes students’ ratings of col-
leges on everything from the worst
dormitory rooms to the most bor-
ing classes. ‘

Washington and Lee appeared
ontwo lists, rating the tenth best-
looking student body and the 13th
happiest students, but didn't rank
in the best academics.

The ratings were based on 70-
question surveys sent to 245 cam-
puses. One hundred students from

each college responded.

  W&L: Shiny, happy people

Best-looking campus

Denison University
University of Richmond
Miami University

Texas Christian University
Southern Methodist Univ‘.
Vanderbilt University
Howard University

St. Lawrence University
Bucknell University
Washington and Lee
Villanova University
Middlebury College
Clemson University
Brigham Young University
Univ. of Colorado — Boulder

ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁﬁ

Happiest campus

Duke University

Sweet Briar College
Univ. of the South

Colby College
Hampden-Sydney College
Northwestern University
College of the Atlantic
Dartmouth College
Brown University
Stanford University
University of Dayton
Rhodes College
Washington and Lee
Cal Tech University
Deep Springs College

ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁﬂ

 

PAGE 2

    

@1112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

G Jidelir es we
all can live with?

By now you have seen the front—page story on the grand jury's
refusal to indict Richard Hughes on charges of attempting to rape
Sweet Briar sophomore Jodi Schaubach. This case, along with
other sexual misconduct cases, has prompted us to re-evaluate
our guidelines regarding the names of complainants and defen-
dants in such difficult situations.

In the past year, the W&L community has demonstrated that
it is overwhelmingly against the disclosure of the accuser’s
name in most sexual misconduct cases. Nevertheless, we favor
naming accuser and accused; doing so helps to de—stigmatize
rape victims and keeps the community informed. And in the
interest of fairness, we carmot continue to name the accused —
regardless of his guilt or innocence — while protecting the
accuser in every case.

If we were to do what we believe is right, we would likely lose
our jobs. While we would not mind losing our jobs in defense of
a principle, we must choose our battles carefully. Continuing to
strengthen The Ring-tum Phi is worth a concession on this issue.
Therefore we have developed a new set of guidelines, effective
immediately, for sexual misconduct cases.

For sake of illustration, consider the conventional case of a
woman charging a man with rape. When the charge is filed, the
Phi will report the accusation, but without naming either person.
Naming neither is preferable to having readers assume that the
man is guilty, while allowing the woman to act as an anonymous
accuser.

In the case of an acquittal or dismissal of charges, the Phi
again will not name either person. The man will not have been
proved guilty, and thus his reputation should not be injured. As
long as both the man and the woman are innocent of any
wrongdoing, they should receive the same treatment. And since
community standards prohibit narriing the woman, we will not
name the innocent man.

In the case of conviction, the Phi will name the man but not the
woman. We have no interest in protecting the reputations of
convicted felons, so our duty to cover the courts outweighs their
privacy interests. And once again, community standards prohibit
naining’'the‘woman:'“' *   “ ’ " ’

These are the guidelines we will use — guidelines, not rules.
The guidelines apply to every case, but sometimes there are
other overriding interests.

In this case, telling you who plastered our campus with
posters maligning the Fijis is such an interest. For weeks during
last spring, a fraternity fought minors launched by an attacker
they could not combat effectively. Without knowing the source
of the ﬂiers, students could not evaluate the accusations’ truth-
fulness.

It is for that reason — and not merely because Schaubach
brought an attempted rape charge - that we name her. The
expectations of our readers told us not to publish Schaubach’s
name; that interest in most cases would outweigh our desire to
de—stigmatize rape and our duty to report on the courts. In this
case, however, our responsibility to name the distributor of the
ﬂiers tipped the scales in favor of publication.

Recognizing that we cannot now reach our ideal of full
disclosure, we regret last spring’s decision to print Hughes’
name. In the future, our crime coverage will be less informative,
but more fair. Perhaps one day our community will mature to the
point that we do not have to take such measures to protect
innocent defendants from a presumption of guilt, and victims
from an undeserved social stigma.

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, September 10, 199

Q

Ellléi.

El Presidente passes out the bananas

WASHINGTON — The U.S.A.
has begun to look, sound and act like a
banana republic.

It’s no joke, Mr. and Mrs. North
America. Remember those crazy gov-
ernments to the south who kept power
by intimidating the peasants with state-
of-the-art military prowess, bribing
them with newly-printed government

tion campaign. From his Pentagon com-
mand post, Bush's defense secretary
signaled that the state of Missouri will
soon be producing a new batch of F15
fighters for Saudi Arabia.

Cost: Another escalation in the Mid-
east arms race.

Beneﬁt: 11 electoral votes.

Let's have no confusion about

money, scaring wha.“ mp‘
them from the 11;°“!‘:;o’nt:‘t’)’;;
Pulgggd M E, CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS ,,§,, W,
e y, _

Presidente Bush Tribune Media Services $‘“°k1°d .3‘
is leading us Blfagﬁyﬁuig
down the same _

congaline.With Ar8¢m"1a-

his government $4 trillion in debt, he
ﬂies his new, custom-made 747 down
to Texas with some good news for
local voters: they will soon be turning
out 150 new F165 for Taiwan.

Cost: An escalation of tensions in
the China Sea.

Benefit: 32 electoral votes on Nov.
3.

Back in Washington, there were
more salutes to the President’s re-elec-

who would roll up debt upon debt year
after year? Where the latest junta would
create its very own instant cash using
the govemment-owned printing press?
Where the nervous president would
keep his beloved palace by buying off
the right people, while the country's
real problems of unemployment, crime
and social division were put off to
some distant “maﬁana"?

Watch proud Yankee George Bush

dance this number.

With the 1992 budget alone $314
billion into the red, Bush told the storm-
wracked people of Florida last week
that the federal government is going to
cover the cost of Hurricane Andrew
dollar for dollar. Not the usual 75 per-
cent federal share. rriind you, 100 per-
cent!

Where's this new U.S. money to
come from? By borrowing more bil-
lions on the world market, adding up
more debt, more interest costs, more
deficits for later generations.

Cost: Impossible to calculate. When
an earthquake struck Northern Califor-
nia in 1989, the state and localities had
to pay part of the repair job. This cre-
ates an obvious incentive for local lead-
ers to do some timely planning, to try
and minimize the damage of future
earthquakes. The Hurricane Andrew
precedent means that when Hurricanes
Bill or Charlie come howling, the fed-
eral government will be asked to pay
the full tab once again. With what?

Benefit: 25 electoral votes.

Bush was equally generous to the

voters of Louisiana, promising to keep
out sugar imports, even though An-
.drew destroyed much of the domestic
crop. '

Cost: The consumer gets hit with
higher prices for sugar and everything
it goes into.

Benefit: 9 electoral votes.

Next stop, South Dakota. Bush gave

I

wheat farmers a billion dollars in I.1eW '

export subsidies.

Benefit: 3 electoral votes.

Finally, the biggest election—eve
bonanza of all: a promise to “index’
capital gains.

Not all voters are tempted by such,
temporal rewards. For them, there is
that ultimate weapon of the rightﬁhe
pulpit. Last week, we heard Vice Presi-
dent Dan Quayle railing against the
“adversary culture,” keeping up his
daily cnisade against Hollywood, the
“media elite” and other threats to the
voter’s soul. .

Put it together and you get theﬁold
banana republic battle cry:

Support the commander! Obey the
church! Take the bribe!

Election reads ike a lazy-day Trollope novel

, @112 ikittg-tum lﬂlrt‘

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joshua Marming

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Leigh Allen. Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nikki Magaziner

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaperobserves current court definitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON —- Trollope’s political novels
have been called ideal reading for a lazy Labor Day
weekend because if a breeze blows over a few pages
while you nap, never mind, plunge back in. The
narrative moves at such a measured pace that noth-
ing much will have been missed. This presidential
campaign may now be like that. Its themes are clear.

A Democrat more liberal than he wants to seem,
and a Republican less conservative than he wants to
seem, are leading parties whose differences have
narrowed, and whose ranges of politically possible
policies are narrow.

Liberalism developed when liberty was threat-
ened by the forces of

has shifted, to the disadvantage of Democrats.
Watergate and Vietnam caused an erosion of confi-
dence in governments. The mobility of money and
businesses inhibits governments because wealth
can ﬂee currencies threatened by inﬂation or juris-
dictions where growth is slow or government is
meddlesome.

So parties whose promises depend on strong
government are decreasingly plausible. Further-
more, long recessions and slow growth increase
individual anxiety and decrease social solidarity,
thereby weakening society’s support for collective
actions.

On the other hand, aspects of both

order -- state or church.

economic vigor and its absence can

Today'people feel more GEORGE WILL help Democrats. The boom of the
th tened b d’ d . . . 1980 swasunsettlingtomariypeople.
Mgegem Am’;ﬁc':n°']f,;_ Washington Post Writers Group vvhiie me U,s economy added 19
e,-a1ismdeV¢10p¢d;o,»e- million net new jobs, Fortune 500

dress a perceived imbalance between anemic gov-
ernment and the surging power of entities and forces
in industrial society. Now that (since last October)
government jobs oumumber manufacturing jobs in
America, an insufficiency of government is not seen
as the problem.

The Democratic Party's change of mind — its
movement toward the center — reﬂects recognition
that it cannot win the presidency by changing the
composition of the electorate. That is, it cannot win
by mobilizing non-voters among the poor and mi-
norities. Political scientist Ruy Teixeira of the

. Brookings Institution calculates that if turnouts by

blacks, Hispanics and poor whites had each been 20
percent higher in every state Bush won in 1988,
Dukakis still would have lost by 102 electoral votes.

Over the last 30 years America's political center

corporations shrank by 4 million jobs and from 58
percent of industrial output to 42 percent. Rapid
change generates stress, and thus generates support-
ers, and thus generates stress, and thus generates
supporters for a liberal party that equates any social
distress with “victimization" and a failure of gov-
ernment to enforce “faimess.”

The Bush recession was especially unsettling,
for three reasons. First, it came after the long -
ninety-two month — Reagan expansion which had
convinced people that business cycles are products
of government mistakes that government should
know how to avoid. Second, Bush's recession came
at the end of a low-saving decade, when people felt
particularly vulnerable. Third, it came when the
elite white collar component of the work force was
larger than ever. The recession involved much prun-

ing of middle management jobs, so articulate and

assertive components of the electorate (including jour-
nalists) were anxious.

The weakening of social solidarity, the erosion of
conﬁdence in government and the increase in anxiety
have made the issue of taxation paramount. Duringghe
second World War an Irving Berlin lyric was: "

You see those bombers in the sky?

Rockefeller helped to build them.

So did I.

In war Americans were shoulder-to-shoulder. To-’

day they are throwing elbows, especially about taxa-
tion. ,
The issue of taxation arose among English-spe?ik-
ing (sort—ot) people l,0()0 years ago under King Ethelred
the Unready, in connection with the Danegeld, an
armual tax for the defense of the realm— actually, to
pay tribute to the marauding Danes. Today George the
Implausible is promising a tax cut that Congresswill

.4.

v

not deliver, to be balanced by spending cuts his own ‘

party will not countenance. Clinton promises to bl.1l ld
a New Jerusalem by squeezing millionaires until they
squeak.

But considering that a hefty $4 trillion will be spent
on private consumption this year, it is odd for conser-
vatives to argue that any tax increase Congress is apt to
impose on individuals will radically reshape the
economy. It is equally implausible for liberals toﬂay
that Clinton's policy (management efficiencies, gov-
ernment spending to increase growth, and never a
discouraging word for the middle class that has most of
America's money) will alter the deficit that paralyzes
and disgraces government.

So if you nap for now, you will have no trouble
picking up the thread of this year's by-now famiﬂar
political narrative.

City spells out voting registration regulations *

To the Editor,
domicile.

abode does not necessarily determine

tions you may have concerning your

It is the position of the Lexington
City Council to encourage any stu-
dents who are legally entitledto vote in
the City of Lexington under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Virginia, and
wish to do so, to register with the City
to vote.

Registration Procedures

Any individual may apply for voter
registration with the City Registrar,
300 E. Washington Street, the county
Registrar in the basement of the Court-
house on East Washington Street,(this
office has an entrance on Washington
Street across from the frame shop) or at
any of the special registration sites.
Each individual will first be asked if
Lexington is their home and if they are
registeredelsewhere. Applicants should
note that the question refers to their
current domicile which may ormay not
be the same as their parents. A new
domicile is not attained until the until
the old one is abandoned. A person
demonstrates in the way in which he
conducts his life which of the places of
abode available to him is his domicile
although length of stay at a place of

If Lexington is not your home, but
you do reside within the Common-
wealth of Virginia, you may apply for
voter registration and your application
will be forwarded to the proper juris-
diction for processing,

If Lexington is indeed your home
then an applicant must complete a Vir-
ginia voter registration Application list-
ing the following: full name, including
the maiden and any other prior legal
name; age; date and place of birth;
social security number, if any; whether
the applicant is presentlyaUnited States
citizen; address and place of abode and
date of residence in the precinct; place
of any previous registrations to vote;
and weather the applicant as ever been
adjudicated to be mentally incompe-
tent or convicted of a felony, and if so,
under what circumstances the
applicant’s right to vote has been re-
stored.'I'his card is then signed and the
individual takes an oath under penalty
of perjury that the information pro-
vided is accurate.

The registrar will answer any ques-

application to register. The registrar
has the right to determine if any appli-
cant meets the requirements set froth in
the Constitution of Virginia and the
Code of Virginia. The registrar does
have the authority to ask questions
beyond what the application requests
as long as the registrar does not single
out one class of applicants such as
students, young people, or a particular
racial group.

Qualiﬁcations

To be qualified to vote in Lexing-
ton, you must be:

1) a citizen of the United
States

2) at least 18 years of age

3) a resident of the City of
Lexington

The Code of Virginia deﬁnes ‘ ‘resi-
dence” as follows:

“Residence" for all purposes of
qualification to vote, requires both do-
micile and a place of abode. In deter-
mining domicile, consideration may
be given to applicant's expressed in-
tent, conduct, and all attendant circum-
stances including, but not limited to,

suits, employment, income sources,

i

>..

4

.

financial independence, business pur- ,

residence for income tax purposes, ~

marital status, residence of parents,

spouse and children, any leasehol , '

sites of real and personal proper
owned by the applicant, motor vehicle
and other personal property registra-

tion, and other such factors as may ..

reasonably be deemed necessary to

determine the qualifications of an ap-

plicant to vote in an election district.
Ramifications of Registration

Once you register, Lexington then ‘
becomes your legal residence to be ._

used on all legal documents, tax re-
turns, resumes, job applications, ve-
hicle registration, etc.

While the Lexington City Council
encourages you to avail yourself of aﬂ
rights and responsibilities of residence,
we suggest that you discuss this with
your parents as your registration could
have an impact on their financial posi-
tion.

Sincerely, O
The Mayor and City Council
Lexington, Virginia

 

he Ring-tum Phl, September 10, 1992

he Face Book: W&L's religiousreading

Ni4:°GUY's OPINION
By Chris Citron

' Can you sense it? Can you smell it?
4 you almost taste it? YES! It’s
re. The most wonderful time of the
' ar.9The hour when expectations run
gh and excitement tingles the spine.
s this a song?) The most pleasurable
u ft that God has bestowed on our little
mmunity. The one publication that
akes me more excited than anything
se (except maybe my armiversary
sueiof “Girls’ School Girls In The
ude”)— The 1996 Face Book.
Absolutely. That little book of magic
I at helps us prepare for our bewitch-
. g throughout the year. It is the most
ught-after piece of literature by up-
rclassmen, as is evidenced by our
 ctbon to our friends the rriinute we
-- them after break and ask them
. ut their summer (which should be
v tlawed, by the way. Nobody really
ares and nobody else wants to tell it
r the thirty-seventh time in three
ours). “Have you seen the
reslmen?How do they look?Do you
ve a Face Book?” all asked quickly
*: (1 out of breath. Dorm counselors
uddenly become everyone’s best
. 'end, and Rush chairmen are just one
'-V pbelow, but only dueto the factthat
r eir editions are simple photo copies.
erywhen we finally find someone
ith the precious book, we beg and
ead and bite and scratch to see it.

And then, we ﬁnally get our hands on
it and we...

LAUGH, and drool,andlaugh
some more, and criticize and comple-
ment and then laugh some more, and
eventually start putting names to faces.
But not before we laugh for a final
time. Admit it: it is great entertain-
ment. The pictures are more than likely
not the
most ﬂat-

not good-looking." “I’ll bet you a case
of beer that she will be the hottest
freshman.”

And all of this because of one little
book.

Now freshmen, don’t think this is
all a joke. Unfortunately for you, it’s
not. It is the key to your very existence.
Without it, you are no one except a

potential
pledge or

tering be-
c a u s e
y o u r
m o m
probably
put a
photo in
that she
thought
wasador-

body?)

With the magic book, however, you 3
are Butch the potential pledge, or Kim,
with the hot body. (Or maybe Kim the
hot pledge and Butch the potential

hot
b o d y .
With the
m a g i c
b o 0 k ,
however,
you are

utch,
the po-
tential

able. I
will never
forget my freshman Face Book where
one guy’s picture (who will remain
nameless—Chris) had a picture of him
with his grandfather in the background.
In addition, you probably weren't
around when she wrote in your hobbies
either, and so some guy’s mother as-
suredly wrote “cooking” and
“babysitting” which, of course, goes
over real well with the fraternities, not
to mention freshman girls. His only
date will be with Scott Dittrnan’s kids.
Finally, it is quite amusing to see
what the freshman truly look like in
person and so the guessing becomes a
wonderful drinking game. “No, she’s

pledge,'or

K i m ,
with the hot body. (Or maybe Kim the
hot pledge and Butch the potential
body?). The Face Book becomes ev-
erything. Iri fact, I retract my previous
statement; it is not just a magic book;
it is God’s work; it is our bible.

And if I remember correctly, it is
also your bible. You do exactly what
we do, except that being a freshman,
you concentrate more on the guys and
girls faces than you do hobbies. Unless
you plan on using that to scam with.
“Hey, aren’t you Gwen? Aren't you
from Houston, Texas? Don’t you like
volleyball and horses? How did I know?
Well,....uh...aside from your bowed

legs, I could sense that you were the
type.”

But let’s get this straight right now
guys. You will get none this year. Or
very little. Unfortunately, while party-
ing is illegal for you, your female coun-
terparts will be enjoying the beer and
company of the upperclassmen. I do
not envy your position, because I have
been there. Actually, I’m still there,
but it is still not as bad apredicamentas
that of the sophomore girls, because
they will get even less.

Hate to say that girls (not), but you
do deserve it. Every year y'all do the
same thing. You get so excited that you
are the center of attention of the sopho-
mores and juniors and seniors, that you
deliberately forget you freshmen coun-
terparts. Guess what? It’s time to pay.
You’re no longer the center of atten-
tion, and guys do not forget. You will
be cast off, left alone to wallow in your
own pity, and drink beer with all your
girl friends. Don’t get me wrong; you
may get lucky with some freshman
guy, but that’s about it. Hey, what can
I say? You deserve it.

So freshman girls, pay attention.
Go out with the upperclassmen. We’re
much more fun anyway,.but don’t treat
the guys like the pledges they are. Re-
member them, hang with
them...sometirnes, and be cool. Don’t
end up like every other has-been beauty
queen in the sophomore comer. And
have a fantastic first year.

And live by the bible.

Amen.

.riving to Lexi

‘ros’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

ATTENTION WASHINGTON & LEE STU-
ENTS: PUBLIC NOTICE REGARDING THE STA-
OF CHRIS SWANN’S HUMOR COLUMN IN
I’ ' ING-TUM PHI:
Swann graduated. The column now only exists in
' e rriinds of those who were around to read it last year.
am his replacement -— well at least one of them. My
- — name is Tom Hespos and I am a junior from Long
land, New York — a place famous for its Duckling,
ed Tea, and its obnoxious Yankees. Go ahead, feel
-' R) make jokes, 1 know that you all secretly covet a
ouse in the Harnptons with a pool and tennis court, so
t’s just cut the crap, Okay?
Like many other W&L students, I packed up my car
with clothes. books and any piece of furniture that

ould fit in my trunk, and made a bee-line for W&iII.‘”

y route to school takes me down the Long Island
xpﬁssway, over assorted bridges, down the New
ersey Turnpike to Interstate 78, and ﬁnally gets me to
‘ xington via I-81.
The Long Island Expressway is an interesting place.
' rims about half of the length of the island in an East-
est direction, although some people insist on navel-
'ng North-South on it. This usually takes them into a
-, . 1. rail, but most LI drivers don’t seem to care. The
verage speed for the LIE is about 80 miles per hour,
hich means that if you own a slow car like my
Volkswagen Beetle, some problems arise. Things only
low up when one of the LIE’s two highway patrol cars
: eseen intlie vicinity, rather than at the local “Dunkin’
' nuts.”
My strategy for driving on the LIE is very simple: I
bare the road shoulder with the bicycles and mopeds
til I reach the bridges.
Traveling over this series of bridges, I land in New
ersey, “the Garden State,” hospital waste distributor
. r the majority of East Coast beaches. Never in my

0

Interviews and Photos
: by Jameson Leonardi

0

two decades of existence have I seen so many
useless road signs in one place. For example:
“Falling Rock.” What possible protection from a
20-ton falling boulder could this sign possibly
offer? Shhheeaaaahhh! Riiiightll As if...!
Another example: “State Police —— Next Right.”
This sign should read: “Slow Down — there's a
cop around this next bend.”
Fortunately, my driving time in New Jersey is
short. Onward into Pennsylvania!
Pennsylvania is a very thought-provoking state.
It’s very easy to get completely bored and lose
yourself in thought here. For instance —— on I-78 on
the left — hand side, there is a Keebler cookie
factory. About 1000 feet down the road is a Stroh’s
brewery. One might wonder- do the workers at
Keebler ever go over to the brewery trying to swap
boxes of E.L. Fudge for a keg? It boggles the mind.
I promised my editors that I would include a

Letterniarfistyle top ten list in ‘this column so here .-

oes...
g Top 10 cool things about Pennslyvannia
10) There are hardly any Texans around.
9) Amish country- agreatplace to pick up babes.
(Shall I yell “Not!” or wouldyou like to?)
8) Bill Clinton never inhaled marijuana smoke
here.
7) Was voted the state most likely to be overrun
by trees.
6) Speed checked by radar- for your protection.
5) Home of Kutztown University, the world's
most boring school.
4) Shares a border and lots of municipal waste
with New Jersey.
3) Philadelphia: where all 56 Rocky movies
were filmed.
2) One of the first states to outlaw dwarf-tossing
as a sport.
1) State named for Sean Penn, who at one point
was consistently having sex with Madonna.
From Pennsylvania, I venture into Maryland,

ngton is an adventure

“The Pansy State.” Named for Queen Mary the
Excessively Obese of Upper Volta, Maryland has
turned into a haven for preppies, Yuppie wanna-be’s
and similar types. Everyone slows down on the
interstate because a roving pack of state troopers has
been spotted driving pink Miatas with little green
alligators sewn on the bumpers. They pull me over
right after I cross the Mason—Dixon line so that they
might check my car for drugs and tasteless clothing.
People don’t believe me when I say that Southern
prejudice against Northemers begins right when
you cross “the line.” If you were to straddle it, you
would see the IROCs with handguns in their glove
compartments on one side and the armed pickup
trucks on the other. These vehicles never cross the
line.

Once Officer Skippy is satisfied with his search
of my car, (which incidentally, only turned up sev-
eral empty 7-11 “Slurpee” cups from the mid-70's)

_ 1am»ai1QW¢d1°—°°¥“ii‘“eF*ii‘L°~¥339~P¥°F‘*l¢~P‘l“i?i'
into "West Virginia. I pray to God that my voyage .

doesn't bring me past any sheep farms, lest I have a
fit of laughter that would cause me to lose control of
my car and smack into a concrete overpass support.

Not much can be said about West Virginia with-
out mentioning sheep or someone’s sister, and I am
sure that you have heard all of those jokes, so I will
refrain from using them right after I mention that
West Virginians have only recently discovered that
you can raise sheep for their wool.

Finally, I reach the state in which my destination
lies. As I approach the first of the three exits for
Lexington, the little pleasures of W&L life rim
through my head: the nights of drinking and falling
out of fraternity house windows, the Sweet Briar
girls throwing up on my ﬂoor, the No-Doz taken
before politics class that failed to work. I cniise past
the freshman dorms, pull into a space and step out to
stretch my legs and breathe the fresh air. I feel a tap
on my shoulder and turn around to see my arch-
nemesis Baner.

TALKBACK

Women's Forum

Women's Forum will hold its
first meeting of the year on Sunday,
Sept. 13, at 7:30 p.m. in Fairfax
Lounge. Food will be provided.
Everyone is invited!

The EC

The Executive Committee will
be interviewing students for posi-
tions on the Student-Faculty Hear-
ing Board onWednesday, Sept. 23.
Applications can be picked up out-
side of Carol Calkins’ office.

FD Chairmen

The Executive Committee will
be interviewing students for the po-
sitions of Fancy Dress chair, vice-
chair and auditor on Thursday, Sept.
24. Applications can be picked up
outside of Carol Calkins’ office in
the University Center.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will be
interviewing students for the posi-
tion of The Ring-tum Phi executive
editor on Tuesday, Sept. 22. Letters
of interest should be submitted to
Carol Calkins’ office in the Univer-
sity Center.

Calyx

Please pick up your 1992 Calyx

in room 206 of the University Cen-
.ter 2 - 4 p.m. Monday, Sept. 14
through Friday, Sept. 18.

Spout Off!

Let the campus read what you
have to say. Bring signed letters to
the editor and My Views to The
Ring-tum Phi office in University
Center room 208.

Get Advice

Questions for “Ask Dr. Worth"
can be submitted to Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center.

The Registrar

The Registrar's office is ﬁnaliz-
ing the infonnation for the Student
Directory. Please make sure they
have your correct local address and
phone number. Deadline to make
changes is Monday, Sept. 21.

Emergency

The new Security emergency
number is 463-8999.

Parking Info

Changes in parking enforce-
ment: All Gaines Hall residents are
no longer allowed to park behind
the Doremus Gym.

There will be strict enforcement
and towing of vehicles stopped in
the Reid Hall circle or in the rear of
the Co-Op. Students are not allowed
to park in these areas for any rea-
son. Flashing lights will not be an
excuse for parking on a yellow curb,
in handicap spaces, or in no parking
zones. Violations will result in a
$25 fine and the vehicle will be
towed at the driver's expense.

RACASA

Fall Volunteer Training Topics:
myths and facts, crisis intervention,
emotional issues, medical issues,
law enforcement issues, sex offend-
ers, child sexual abuse, risk reduc-
tion issues, specific populations.
Oct. 6 - Dec. 15, 1992. For more
information, call 463-7273.

Be International

Intetested in ' foreign cultures?
Want to meet the exchange stu-
dents? Come to the first Iritema-
Iional Club meeting of this year on
Tuesday, Sept. 15 at 8 p.m. in the
International House, 8 Lee Ave.
Refreshments will be served.

Get It Out!

Need to get a message to the
student body? Put it in the General
Notes. Leave a brief, typed note in
the General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office in room
208 of the University Center.

. What was your first impression of Lexington?

Martha Warthan, ’96,

-Richmond, Va. — “It was a
rainy, disgusting day and a lousy
tour, but I still fell in love with
W&L.”

Tyson Hilton, ’96, Huntington
Beach, Ca. — “I've seen pyg-
mies bigger than Lexington.”

Jill Sheets, ’96, Malvern, Pa.
— “Small and friendly.”

Jeff Zeiger, ’96, Columbus,
Ohio e “The businesses are
glad we’re here and the police
are extremely helpful.”

Julie Powell, ’96, Atlanta, Ga.
— “It's what every college town
should look like.”

Christin Roach, ’96,
Annapolis, Md. —— “I like the
patterns in the bricks and walk-
ing on them with naked feet.”

‘t
I

 

PAGE 4

FEATURES

Worth deals with social anxiety

ASK DR. WORTH

By Dr. James Worth

The “Ask Dr. Worth” column will return to The Ring-
tum Phi this fall every other week. Since itis too early for
me to have received any questions yet, I asked a Phi staff
member for some ideas. She suggested I say something
about social pressures here at W&L, especially with
regard to the incoming freshmen.

It has seemed to me that from a social standpoint the
fall term at W&L is, particularly for freshmen, the best
of all times and the worst of all times.It is the best of all
times (at least so far in your life) for many exciting
reasons. You are in an incredibly beautiful community,
surrounded by bright and attractive people your own
age, and given more social freedom than you've ever had
before. Our campus traditions emphasize socializing,
partyingandhavingfun,aswell

sports or on the social scene, everyone is seeking suc-
cess. Not everyone can come in first. Do your best, but
don’tbediscouraged if success does elude youoccasion-
ally this fall. It's OK not to have a date, not to get in the
house you wanted, not to have an A on the first English
paper, even if you were a standout high school student in
every way. Dig in for the long haul and by the time you
are a junior and a senior you'll have your share of
victories.

If you are a female:

(1) You, too, are going to be nished this fall by the
upperclassmen, but in a little different way than fresh-
man guys. That's not necessarily bad. Still, you need to
make good decisions, decisions which are self-esteem-
ing. Don’t let yourself become an item on someone
else’s agenda.

(2) There is a lot of alcohol at W&L. You will have
plenty of opportunities to drink. If you decide to abstain

. you will avoid many potential

as academic excellence. From
the earliest mixers, to the Fancy
Dress Ball next winter, to the
lush (pun only partially in-
tended) days of springtime in
the Shenandoah Valley, this is
a school where working hard
really is combined with the op-
portunity to play hard as well.

But as they say, every rose

has a few thoms. Freshmen are Center.

Questions to Dr. Worth can be
submitted in person or anony-
mously to either Room 128 of
the University Center or to
Carol Calkins in the University

problems, but the truth is not
everyone will make that deci-
sion. If you decide to drink
here, then keep in mind how
vulnerable you are if you be-
come intoxicated.

The decision to drink self-
protectively must be made in
advance, not after your 5th beer.
If you are going to drink, try to
have female friends with you
who will be sober enough to

uniquely vulnerable to a vari-
ety of stresses, pressures and
outright dangers, which through lack of experience they
may be unaware. Some of these may be unique to W&L,
but most, if in fact not all, of them are encountered on
every other American campus.
My sense is that freshman males don't always face the
same vulnerabilities as freshman females so I will sepa-
rate the genders as I make these reﬂections.

If you are a male:

(1) By all means avail yourself of the Rush activities
that present themselves to you if you are so inclined,
but keep it in perspective. Being a member of a
particular house is not a life or death matter.
Indeed, fraternity membership itself, like all
choices, has debits and credits.

Don't let yourself get pressured into a
premature choice. You can find peace, love
and happiness at W&L as a fraternity member
or as an independent, or you can be unhappy
either way.

(2) Don’t let the relaxed, convivial atmosphere
of the first few days here mislead you. You will most
likely be working harder than you ever dreamed possible
within the first few weeks after classes begin. Keep your
priorities straight. Budget your time. There are many
opportunities to play hard but you have to pay the piper.

(3) This is a highly competitive place, as well as being
friendly. Whether it be in the classroom, in intramural

 

help you should that be neces-
sary. Drink slowly and moderately enough that you
always know what you are doing and feel in control of
yourself. If you think you've reached your limit, switch
to soda. Don’t let anyone pressure you to drink or to
drink more/faster than you want to.

(3) There is also a lot of sexual activity at W&L. You
will have plenty of opportunities for that, too. You need
to make your choices consistent with your values and
health (mental as well as physical). Pregnancy, STD’s
and even sexual violence are risks if you choose to be
sexually active, though you can take precautions that

will reduce the risk level. Remember, guys may

play kiss and tell games. Just don’t think that
casually hooking up with someone on Satur-
day night will always be a well-kept secret.

Trust me, it won't. It also won't necessarily

lead to either friendship or further romance.

(4) As with freshman males, don’t expect

to be consistently successful this fall. In fact,

try defining success in broader ways. Not

having a date gives you an opportunity to do other

things which may be just as enjoyable. Not getting into

a particular activity frees you up for something else. Not

getting high grades on your first set of exams educates
you about the academic realities of this place.

Sometimes we can learn more from our perceived
failures than our so-called successes, which means they
really weren't failures after all.

\

The Ring-tum Phl, September 10, 199 »

A survivial guide to men's Rush

Upperclassmen give tips for enjoying the chaos .

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

Although fraternity Rush has been described as a trip
through hell to get to heaven, most freshman men manage to
cultivate good memories in the first three frenzied weeks of
college.

“You can look at it this way,” sophomore Adam Plotkin
said. “It’s a bunch of free parties that present great ways to
meet people. It’s one of the most hectic times in a guy's life,
but it's also one of the most enjoyable.”

Among upperclassmen’s favorite Rush activities are
Tear Night and casual afternoons spent at the houses.

“I enjoyed the skeet shoots
and parties out at houses in the
country,” junior Mac Tisdale
said.

“A lot of plarming goes into
the afternoons of open contact
when the freshman guys are
taken to Goshen and to play
golf,” he said.

Meeting fraternity brothers
in classes also contributes to
freshmen’s memories of Rush
and, ultimately, the decisions
they make.

“I met a guy in a drama class
who became one of my good
friends and was my big brother
when I joined the house," senior
John Godfrey said. “The
strength of that friendship was
evident on Tear Night, because
I knew I'd joined the right

 

tlvltles of Tear Night.

On weekriights, while the seasoned Rush veterans are
busy welcoming swarms of freshman men to their houses,
freshman women generally entertain themselves by observ-
ing the pre-party hoopla.

“Last year we sat and looked out my window and
watched the parade of guys in tan pants, bucks and navy blue

jackets,” sophomore Beth Provanzana said.

This attire is made possible largely to the domestic
services freshman women offer the nishees.

“I found out that no guys know how to iron,” sophomore

 house.”

. Stacy Cofield said.

In the past, freshman women were not spectators to the
extent that they are today at W&L.

“I remember being curious, confused and unfamiliar
with Rush terms during those weeks, but women in classes
before mine could go with guys to the Rush parties,” senior
Teresa Williams said. Williams said this firsthand experi-
ence was either beneficial or aggravating, because women
who were invited were either “ignored or paid attention to,
depending on what the guys preferred at the time.”

Among other things, women can benefit from the extra
study time and much-needed sleep during men's Rush.

 

SOME W&L men enjoy the bachannallan ac-

“We got to watch T.V. in the Graliam-Lees lounge; we
actually had it to ourselves,” Provanzana said.

Time for relaxation seems to be taken for granted b ‘
women, who cannot fathom the pressure experienced by the
men. “All the guys were asking, ‘What are we going to do
next?’ while all the girls were asking, ‘Where's the next
party?’” sophomore Stacy Bogert said.

Sophomore Stephanie Sheperd agrees. “As a freshman,
frat parties became kind of overwhelming. A lot of people
had never experienced something quite that wild. It was
nice to have a break from it,” she said.

However, on weekends when the parties are in full

swing,freslirnan women should heed the advice of uppertﬁass _

women who have experienced the delirium.
“Don’tcarryany type of con-
tainer with you from party to
party,” said Williams.
don’t take it personally if guys

goal is to meet other guys”;

“Trytohitasmanyhousesas
possible,” said Provanzana.

“I would've liked to have
met more people by going to
more than one house on Tear
Night,” sophomore April Powell
said.

O
Sheperd agrees that fresh-

tliemselves by staying at one
P311)’-

“Tryto meetupperclassmen,
rather than being intimidated and
standing in a corner, keeping to
yourself," Powell said.

As for the men, the most ba-
sic advice is to keep an open
mind and to pledge the frateniity that has the most comfort-
able atmosphere.

“Visit as many houses as possible,” senior Mark Van
Deusen said. This can make a difference in the end of R h.

“There's a place for everybody,” sophomore Michael
Neal said.“We’re trying to impress the freshman guys just
as much as they're trying to impress us.”

“You should be looking for the best brotherhood in a
group of guys you'll be spending the next four years with
here,” Godfrey said.Above all, the brothers of W&L frater-
nities stress staying in control.

“Don’t get too drunk, and avoid the Lexington police lﬁre
the plague,” Godfrey said. ,

Though fraternity Rush can suddenly thnist men into a
whirlwind of activity, some brothers urge moderation.

“The key word is ‘balance’,” sophomore Brian Hucks
said. “Rush is important, but classes are, too.”

File Photo

Although in these next few weeks being a part of a '

brotherhood may seem like the end—all, be-all of a gu6"s
existence, just being a part of Rush is key.

“Tell yourself it's not the end of the world if you don ’t get
into a fraternity,” Neal said, “because the world will go on.”

Brotherhood.

From its modest beginnings in 
Lambda Chi Alpha has emerged as one o 
strongest fraternities in North America,, 

 

over 200 chapters at colleges and unive

in the United States and Canada. Lambda 
. is a known leader in the fraternity 
establishing the standards for excelle s
. ..tie,,§.,a.i;e..

 
 

which all frate .
surpassed iii 33  
national frat

  

   
  
   
     
  
     
   

The Brothers    

‘e    -tivation of good‘,

Gamma-Phi"  Pounded Cl 922

225 East Nelson Street,  from Davidson Park
463-2600
President — Tom Molony
Rush Chairmen —— John Godfrey and Chris O’Hagan

 years ago, we set the standard;
 .\ we are the leaders. Over 200,000
 Lambda Chis can't be wrong.

fe objectives  Lambda Chi Alpha .
are a tie establishment" of brotherhood for

9

among men, the
el of patriotism, .
 g and the

   
 

 

“And .

don't talk to you a lot — their

man women should not limit I

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1992

O

  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

By Joyce BAUTISTA
. Phi Features Editor

The talk continues even three

onths after downtown Lexington’s
ansformation from a small college
own to a bustling post-Civil War me-
opolis. For two days in June, the city
- came the settin g of “Sommersby,” a
it ﬂtimillion—dollarmotionpicture star-
ing Jodie Foster and Richard Gere,
A hich brought chaos to the otherwise
. leepy town.
‘ “I’ve never seen so many people in
owntown Lexington before,” W&L
irector of Communications Brian
Slmw said. “It was like a Christmas
parade.”

Shaw served as a liaison between
the movie crew and Washington and
Lee.

He said the university allowed the
use of the Sigma Nu and Phi Delta
Tlsta fraternity houses for costuming
and make-up during the two-day shoot.

The old Troubadour Theatre was
also used as a holding area for extras
and the back for set construction, Shaw
said.

Evans Dining Hall was the place to
ﬁrd the cast and crew catching a bite to
eat.

“Jodie Foster ate in the D—hall,”
sophomore Chris
Albert, a location in-
tern, said, “but Rich-
ard Gere ate in his
tr ‘ er.”

e preparations
, began Tuesday, June
, Albert said.

Storefronts were
redone along Wash-
ington and Main
str ets.

‘Albert went to all
the local businesses to
check that all air con-
ditioners and televi-
sion antennas were
removed.

A “We had to make
sui% that nothing of the 20th century
sneaked into our 19th-century set,”
Albert said.

At 9 p.m. Tuesday night, chunks of

 

Photo by Patrick McCabe
Gere

Filming in downtown Lex

Hollywood crew invades city

FEATURES

Photo courtesy Chns Albert

Sophomore Chris Albert (center) poses wlth the cast and crew of
“Sommersby," lncludlng Jodie Foster and Richard Gere.

closed off, Shaw said. .

“ ‘Sommersby' trucked in two dump
trucks of dirt and sand to transform the
streets of Lexington," he said. “The
day before the street
lights wereremoved.”

Wednesday the

cameras started roll-
ing.
Actors’ trailers
stretched from the
comer of Nelson and
Main to the court-
house at Washington
Street.

Shaw said Gere's
trailer was located in
front of the court-
house.

“Every time he
stuck his head out of
his trailer there were
screams and yelps,”
he said.

Though Gere had throngs of female
admirers sighing at his every move,
Foster also had her share of fans and

The scene shot Wednesday involved

the film was shot in the George Wash-
ington National Forest.

“We worked closely with the Vir-
ginia Film Office,” Shaw said. “We
helped find the crew good places to
shoot.”

Shaw said he and location manager
Scott Elias became great friends
through the experience.

Shaw said he worked closely with
the “Sommersby” crew helping with
media coverage.

“There were five different TV sta-
tions covering the shoot,” he said. He
also helped coordinate news confer-
ences with director Jon Amiel, Foster
and Gere.

“It was a lot of work but also a ton
of fun,” he said.

“Elias is working hard to get W&L
aﬁlm credit,” Shaw said. “Gere, Foster
and Amiel left with a lot of W&L
paraphernalia.”

Albertsaidlocalestablishmentsben-
efited from the large “Sommersby”
crew.

Shaw estimates that approximately
$500,000 to $1 million was pumped
into the local economy because of the
two-day shoot.

Gere ridingupwashingtononhishorse Gere jammed with the band at the
and Foster with their on-screen son in Willson-Walker House on Thursday
a carriage. night, the ﬁnal day of

Filming these few filming. Elias, onkey-
minutes of footage boards. joined in with
took all day, Shaw the guitar-strumming
said. Gere.

On Thursday, the They were shut
hanging scene was down, to many fans’
shot behind the Main disappointment, by
Street Mall. Lexington Police Sgt.

This shot was to- “Bucky” Miller.
tally prohibited tothe “I don'tknow how
public, Albert said. A they could even think

black curtain was
used to control the
scene.

“We had to keep
people from peeking
outtheirwindowsand
taking photographs,”
Albert said.

That afternoon, Shaw said, the crew
was pulling people off the streets to be
extras.

Only three scenes were actually shot

  

Photo by ‘Patrick Mccabe
Downtown Main Street

of shutting Richard
Gere down,” Albert
said.

Shaw said Foster
kept a lower profile.

“Someone said
they saw her at The
Palms one night,” he

 

said.

The post-Civil_ War love story is
slated for release, possibly with a dif-
ferent title, around Christmas or early

 

PAGE 5

ACROSS
1 Low
5 Lather
9 Part or a

dance?

12 Tropical plant

13 Small fly

14 Work by Frost

15 Judicial decree

17 lmpolite

18 “Ben--—"

19 Yeltsin's land:
abbn

20 Fee

22 Delivered

23 Break into
pieces

24 Meager

26 Uses a razor

27 Obese

28 Backbone

29 Certain actor

32 Newman or
Lynda

33 Indicate

34 Office need

35 Schedule abbr.

36 Speak

37 Above: prel.

38 Domingo and
Pavarotti

40 Steed

41 Knaves. old
style

43 Unruttled

44 Kay Thompson
heroine

45 Ago

46 Oolong

49 Cross

50 Open areas

53 Capitol's root

54 Wearies

55 Food regimen

56 Suppositions

57 Coaster

58 Sp. lady

DOWN

1 Classical
composer

2 Name of
baseball
brothers

3 Tart

4 Always. to a
bard

Colonnade Crossword

 

01992 Tribune Media Services. Inc.

All Rights Reserved

5 Initial
6 Chances
7 Ripen
8 Vendor
9 Wooings
10 Row of shrubs
11 Eastern VIP
13 Steed
14 Chatter
16 Eng. river
21 Own
22 Writer Bellow
23 Glow
24 Night sight
25 Trial places
26 Barbecue
equipment
27 Health farm
28 Rises high
30 To shelter
31 Mal de —
33 Shields
34 Roll up, as a

flag
36 Individuals
37 Grimy
39 Omit a syllable

  

The answers will

appear in this
space next week.
CH MEA REALTORJ
L030 BRING l_B i
AMER LOOSE Votll

ARV ENTER EE .3

40 Party givers
41 “Aida"

46 Threesome
47 Biblical garden

composer 48 The Thin Man's
42 Distant dog
43 Had concern 51 Grease
45 Unsullied 52 Total

Attention All Seniors!

Mandatory Senior Placement Meeting,
Thursday, Sept. 17, at 4 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The Senior Packet will be distributed at this
time. Student athletes will have the same
meeting at 7 p.m. in the University Center,
Room 114.

 

 
 

  
  

 
  
 

  

 

     
   

  

1 Main and Washington streets were admirers, Shaw said. in Lexington, Shaw said. The bulk of spring next year. Albert said.
...__ ._,....._ ............ . . . ., ,_ .. __
I C. I
O O
. .
0
$1204 ‘3/40
, 33° 4/40 $988 *4/40 $1413 *5/80

i , 988 4/80

0
. Apple Macintosh PowerBook'" 145 4/40 Apple Macintosh Classic” II Apple Macintosh LC .1 Apple Macintosh Ilsi

' Get over ‘400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and only

Appl€® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever. at your authorized Apple campus reseller.
' And if you are interested in ﬁnancing options, be sure to ask for  . T -. _
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student '"

O,
‘ For further information Vlslt the

4. in Tucker Hall 
. and ask for Mac McCloud

44 ‘Keyboard and monitor not included
< or call 463-88
© 1992 Apple C()lnpUlCl’, Inc. Apple. the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. Powerllook is a trademark of Apple Computer, lnc. The Random House Encyclopedia '5 a tradernark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic 'I'hcsaunts, and

. Correc’l'ext‘' tlcvclnpcd by Houghton Mifflm Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Rogers ll: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by language Systems, lnc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. liesurnéwriter is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark

’ of their respective liultlcrs. Offer got lll on the Macintuslt PowcrBook 145 4/40 conﬁguration only. All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instntctions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

 

 

PAGE 6

September 10, 1992

Fraternity Fienaissace rolls on

By J OSHUA MANNING
Phi Managing Editor

In the final phase of Fraternity Re-
naissance, Washington and Lee com-
pleted two houses this summer, began
two more, and left three caught in con-
struction quagmire.

W&L Capital Planning Coordina- «
tor Frank Parsons said he expects that
the entire Renaissance program, in-
cluding thenew Sigma Phi Epsilon and
Sigma Chi houses in Davidson Park,

   

will be completed by September 1993.

Not a formal pan of Renaissance,
Chi Psi has independently been reno-
vating its house to meet the university’s
new fraternity standards. Renovations
include building a house mother's suite,
creating more student housing, rede-
signing their party room and adding a
patio and additional bathrooms.

Chi Psi Lodge Manager Mark
Connelly said the work, which was to
be completed by Sept.l, fell behind
due to problems with their independent
contractor. He said the 23 students that
will live in the house planto moveinby
Sept. 20.

“By that time, the first two ﬂoors
should belivable,’ ’Connelly said. “But
the ‘entire project will be done by Octo-
ber l.” House residents have found
temporary lodging in Gaines and
Woods Creek, causing a controversy
between fraternity members and law
students sharing Woods Creek Cen-
tral.

University Security Director
Michael Young saidhis office received
complaints from law students about a
loud party the night after Chi Psi mem-
bers moved into Woods Creek.

To settle the situation, the univer-
sity moved the fraternity members to
Woods Creek West and Gaines.

Despite a recommendation from
Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins

  

 

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-rum Phi

Construction workers at Chi Psi place gravel for a walkway connecting the front of the fraternity house
to the newly-renovated party room. chi Psi hopes to complete constuction by October 1.

against holding Rush in the house,
Connelly and Chi Psi Assistant Rush
Chairman Matt Gilman said enough of
the construction will be completed in
time to host Open Houses and parties.

“We’re taking all the precautions
necessary to have a party,” Gilman
said. “We’re real confident in that.”

Gilman said the basement party
room and patio will be ﬁnished for
Rush. He also said the fraternity will
hire security guards to patrol areas un-
der construction whenever guests are
in the house.

Kappa Alpha, originally slated for
completion last month, fell behind
schedule earlier this year. Parsons said
that the work fell even further behind
this summer. The target date for KA to
reoccupy their house is Jan. 1.

KA will hold their Rush Dates and
Open Houses in the University Center,
KA President Hank Huff said. The
fraternity will host their rush parties in
the Boiler Room on Henry Street.

Delta Tau Delta, removed from Re-
naissance when the chapter was sus-
pended for vandalizing their house last
winter, reapplied in July for an esti-
mated $400,000 in repairs to their Lee
Avenue house. No changes will be
made to the blueprints finalized by the
university last year.

Parsons said the university is taking
bids for the Delt project now and ex-
pects construction to begin this fall and
to be ﬁnished by next fall.

‘ ‘But remember, they will be on
critical probation for three years,’ ’ Par-
sons said. “That means if they stub

their toe, they ’re out.”

Pi Kappa Phi and Phi Kappa Psi
moved back into their East Washing-
ton Street houses last week to find
several rooms devoid of furniture.

“It’s just one of these things that
shouldn't have happened,” Parsons
said. “There was a misunderstanding
in placing the orders. It turns out we
were given some bad information.”

Both houses are missing furniture
fortheirliving rooms and diningrooms.
Until the permanent furniture arrives
next week, both houses are being sup-
plied with furniture by the university’s
interior design company.

But that is a minor problem to Pi Phi
House Manager Todd Burkey.

‘ ‘The house is exceptional, ’ ’ Burkey
said. “It really is nice.”

Phi editor resigns; board seeks replacement

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

Gore campaign.

Eisenhauer will work in Washington, D.C., writ-
ing position papers and providing coordinators with

Ring-turn Phi Executive Editor Tom Eisenhauer
resigned in August, and the Publications Board

plans to replace him.

Eisenhauer was one of two Phi executive edi-
tors. He withdrew from W&L for fall term to take a
position as administrative assistant in the Clinton/

Whaddya mean you don’t like it?
STOP WHINING and write a letter to the editor.

support for campaign stops around the country.
Eisenhauer said he will return to W&L for classes
in January, but will not resume his former position.
‘ ‘I didn’t think it would be fair to the staff to take
off fall term and then come back and try and resume
my old position,” Eisenhauer said.
Applications for the position are due Sept. 18. The

Pub Board will conduct interviews on Sept. 22.

position.

Photographers Needed!
1 No experience necessary!
Must own 35mm gear
& access to car.
Call 800-235-5101
for more information.

V-«$0?-AVIV).

  .
wwwW(_,.. 4

 

\
'liS'l‘l.\'(}

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT Is WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

to reach the same goal.

E

© I 99.7 7}arb(r.r IIIJM/'1lIl(‘( am} A/rnuz'(_y /iJ.rnrk1IIl)n/(‘Ir//{qr Rt/irtmtnl E4/uiII'z.r Fu/II}.

/

Can't afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to goyears or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $190 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $l92,53t)* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $227each month

join them?

your side.

Start plannirg yourﬁcture. Call our Enrollment Hotline I 800 842-2888.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.5M

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve-
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of‘invest-
ment choices, and a record of‘ personal
service that spans 7;, years.

Over a million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of‘
their list for retirement planning. Why not

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you

have time and TIAA-CREF working on

J

I

’A.4.4Iuru'/I; an irrteral rate 0/ Z596 M23114? to TIA/1 Rglirmwnt Annuilza. T1511 rate 11 we? ooh/y to «bow [be power an? eﬂed of amt/zau/I9iny. Lower or ﬁigbzr mm WDUI3
praauzz Very Mata! raulb. CREFtzr!JI'4'a!a are 3I'1!rt$ult3 5y TIAA- CREF ln3ivI31uz/ a/I3 Irutilulwnal Scrvzirza.

The board named senior Rick Peltz, one of last
year's Phi editors, as Eisenhauer’ s temporary replace-
ment. Peltz said he would probably apply for the

“We're all excited that Tom has this opportunity,
but he’ll definitely be missed up in the office,” Phi
Executive Editor Cathy Lopiccolo said.

The Pub Board voted Lopiccolo temporary presi-
dent until elections in October.

Memo From:

I

Grand jury fails
to indict Hughes .

Cl HUGHES from page 1

Schaubach said she managed to free
herself at one point and stand up but did
not leave the room. She said Hughes
pulled her back onto the bed and started
kissing her while she tried to tell him
that she could not have sex with him
because she had a boyfriend at Virginia
Military Institute.

Schaubach said Hughes let her go
when she told him she would go break

up with her boyfriend and come back.

She said in court that she did really
have aboyfriend, but made the story up
in order to get away.

Schaubach also said she tried to
scream once, but Hughes silenced her
by kissing her on the mouth.

During cross—examination,
Schaubach said she and other Sweet
Briar students were responsible for
posters that appeared on the W&L carn-
pus earlier in the spring. The ﬂiers
accused Frjis of raping women and
videotaping brothers having sex with
women without the women knowing
the taping was taking place.

Hughes’ attorney, Thomas Simons,
also said Schaubach and a friend met
with Lexington Police Chief B.M.
‘ ‘Bruce” Beard several months before
and told him that some Fiji members
had videotaped women and chapter
members having sex.

‘ ‘Were you both not told at that time
to stay away from the Fiji house?”
Simons asked.

“I don’t recall,” Schaubach said.

Lexington Police Officer Steve
Crowder, who investigated the alleged
rape attempt, testified that the woman
told him she had seen a red ﬂashing
light in the room that could have been
a video camera.

Crowder said he searched the room
where the alleged rape attempt took
place and found two videotapes, but
the content of the tapes was not related
to the complaints.

Bernard Porter, a senior Fiji mem-
ber who lived in the room where the
alleged incident took place, said he
entered the room May 10 and saw
Schaubach and Hughes standing next
to his desk.

Porter said he talked to Hughes
brieﬂy, and then Hughes and Schaubach
left the room. He said nothing about

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

111 West Nelson Street in Lexington

Welcome Back Everybody!
We Missed You!

Check Our New Shipment Of

-Duckhead Shorts
0 B.D. Baggie’s Shirts
P-RuffHewn Pants

°Super Exclusive W&LTee /_

Schaubach’s actions or appearance in-_

dicated that there was anything wrong. .

Porter also said that there had never

been a video camera in his room.

Hughes did not testify at the hear-
ing. ’
Simons said Wednesday the deci-
sion came as a relief _for Hughes.
“I’m just happy for Rick and hi

family,” Simons said. ‘ ‘I just hope tha
it will go away.”

w&L,sBc  P
react to news V"

A a charge of attempted rape.

‘ said several studentsheldacandle-

. Dean of Student’ Affairs Robert
 Barlow encouraged her and otha‘

 . . Barlow denied tellingihis stu-

‘ .‘ ‘I don ’t know what you’re talking T

By LEIGH ALLEN 9
Phi News Editor

Sweet Briar College students
reacted with shock and disappoint-
ment Wendsday to the news that a
W&L student was not indicted on

’ Sweet Briar senior ‘AmyfEller

light procession in support of Jodi
Schaubach, thewoman who testi-1
ﬂed that Richard Hughes attempted
to rape her at the Phi Gamma Delta
house last year. V V ; I V_ 
“We were not protesting the
grand jury's decision,’ ’ Eller said.’
‘ ‘We were just showing support
for [Schaubach]? t j
‘ V Eller said Sweet Briar College

students notto‘ protest the deci-
sion. , _ . , 
“He didn’t'want us to causea.
big stink,” Eller said; .

dents not to protest. _ V 
’ “I didn’t know there was‘ an
attempted rape case,’ ’ Barlow said.

about.” t‘ A V _

— Fiji junior Larry Brown‘ said’
the" fraternity is‘ pleased with the
grand jury's decision . V

‘ ‘We supported Rick and main,__
tained that he was innocent from *
thebeginning," Brown said. “Jus-_
tice was served in the end.”,_ " ' 

 

.-
o

 

   
 

Spain

Arnex Master Card Visa House Charge
China Japan‘ France Denmark m’
Study Abroad! 2
. A - 5 '
et outside the borde §
(5
E General Information §_
'3 Meeting 3

Rm. 114 Student Center

October 20
7 - 8 p.m.

Galapagos

   

  
 

  

  
  

"\‘.\..‘V\..‘\l.."t.\.‘\‘.\..'\’.\..'\’..\..‘\‘..\..‘\.. ’ \

Costa Rica

If you haVen’t read George Will or
Christopher Matthews today, then t

you haven’t read page 2 in the Phi. .

The Phi is your source for today’s best
syndicated columnists.

 

4

Y
n

E

I

A

I
I
~‘L.__....______...I

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1 992

SPORTS

RH arrls Teeter

  NECTARINES
° AND PLUMS

sHR|MP.......LB.

Menus Iomcisl

   
   
  

DELI-BAKERY
BOLOGNA

SLICED
. TO ORDER

   
   
    
  

STUDENT'S
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
. COURTESY CARD.

‘ I'I3lI'I$T8«8I'BI

YOUR. NAME
YOUR ADDRESS

YOUR CITY. STATE
0 , X/X 0lI0iI0l

lllllll -

Illll

 

IT ALLOWS You TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134
HARRIS TEETER
IoCArIONs IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS SI .00
COUPON AND SAVE.

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON
I 00 OEE '
9 I
I

I

I

I ANY $3.00 OR MORE

I. PURCHASE IN OUR FULL I
I sERvIcE DELI- BAKERY I
I

I

I

I

THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT
OFFER GOOD SEPT. 9 THRU SEPT. 15, I992

. couPoN
0 ALUE

O

  I BREYEIIS

ICE CREAM

 

I REDUCED PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR

PEPsI-coI.A

 

PAGE 7

High expectations placed
on men's soccer team

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Call them the Generals. Call them
“Piranian’s Piranhas”, if you like. Just
don’t call them the best team ever un-
der coach Rolf Piranian, unless he says
so.

“'Ihere’s potential for this to be a
very good year,” said Piranian, “but
you're putting the cart before the horse
to call it a good team right now.”

Coach Piranian felt that undo pres-
sure was put on his squad by an article
in the Rockbridge Daily Press that
called his ’92 Generals “..probably the
best that Piranian has had during his
tenure at W&L.”

“I was upset by that,” said Piranian.
“That didn't come from us [Piranian
and assistant coach John Burgess].”

Although the coaches aren’t seeing
stars over the Generals’ potential, they
feel that the team should be on the
upswing if they can avoid the injury
bug that infected their 1991 campaign,
which they ended at 8-6-2, 4-3 in Old
Dominion Athletic Conference play.

Senior midﬁelder Mike Mitchem,

‘W&L’s career assist leader with 16,

had two goals and two assists in the
first four games of last season, but saw
action in only one of the remaining 12
games due to a knee injury.

“We never had our_top 1 1 players in
the lineup together last year,” Piranian
said.

According to Piranian, there have
been no major injuries thus far, but
minor sprains have limited the practice
time of Mitchem and freshman Chad
Dobbins, who may challenge for a start-
ing spot.

The Generals open their ’92 season
this weekend in the Franklin & Marshall
Tournament, but the commanding gen-
eral isn’t predicting a third straight
tournament title for Washington and
Lee.

“We had an intersquad game last
week and it wasn’t where we wanted to
be,” he said. “Playing back-to-back
games is tough, but we may have the
depth on this team to challenge for it.
We've changed the formations a little
bit this year and it'll take a little time
for things to fall into place.”

Photo by Jameson Leonardt,

  

The Fling-tum Phi

Coach Piranian hopes this kind of hounding by senior Reid Murphy
will produce goals for the Generals. After a successful 1991, W&L
is expected to challenge for the ODAC title this year.

The goaltending position seems to
have fallen into the right place, though.
Senior Mike Steinbrook will continue
to defend the keeper position he won
midway through last season.

“It was clear in the second half of
last year that he was our number one
goalie," said Piranian.

In the 1991 ODAC Tournament,
Steinbrook saved his best performance
for what was, unfortunately, the Gen-
erals last performance. In a 1-0 semiﬁ-
nal loss to undefeated Virginia
Wesleyan, Steinbrook made a season
high 15 saves. Steinbrook finished the
season with a .859 save percentage and
a paltry 1.23 goals against average.

“He was just awesome,” Piranian
said. “It was the greatest game of his
career.”

In front of Steinbrook this year will
be the familiar 6’3" All-South Atlan-
tic sweeper Greg Williams. Williams
was the Generals defensive MVP last
season and looks to protect W&L’s
half ofthe field. Hisjob will be a little
more difficult this year with the gradu-
ation of fel low defenders David Hooker
and John Ziegler. However, a strong

offensive squad should help keep the
pressure on the other side of the center
ﬁeld line.

W&L’s top five point scorers from
last season return, including All-South
Atlantic forward Reid Murphy. More
significant than Murphy’s 1991 totals
of nine goals and two assists, including
four game winners, is the fact that
when Murphy scored, the Generals
were 7-0.

“Reid is the key player for us,” said
Piranian. “He’s an outstanding offen-
sive player.”

Piranian, who now ties his former
coach Joe Lyles’ mark of 17 straight
years guiding W&L men’s soccer,
hopes that these pieces will fall into
place and land the team in the national
tournament for the ﬁrst time in his
tenure. .

“I felt a year or two that we should
have been selected,” he said. “I won’t
be happy until I make it there.”

When Coach Piranian finally does
make the Division III national tourna-
ment, it will probably then be with the
best team he has coached in his tenure
at W&L.

 

 

64 OZ. HT-
OIIANGE JUICE

ONLY WITH
DAIRY I
G

I

I

I

I THIS COUPON

I .

I

I

  Q}

“ "“r°I‘i‘I"E°6“i’»i‘é‘§°"‘

This Con
0 "-7
Repro ucecf. Limit,

5.
°"°-"'°‘I’=i.’.‘."I‘/3'. 34»

nMay_

\-.»‘

FomI ,

 
 
 
    
  

ONLY WITH
THIS co,u3oN

TI’I' C‘
I i‘toII?B,eo(I’?‘¢‘3I;E):n ucae)i:I. DE”
ne 0 on '
I 'I'¥‘e}ra ily " BAKERY I

VIsIt. OI?er Coird

I SeptemI>er9Thru
Septemberl5,l992 

L....__...._....___..I

COUPO
VALUEN E
5002

Prices Effective Through September I5, 1992

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday September 9 Through Tuesday. September 15, 1992. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

l

I

Yo parents!
There’s only one
Way to besure

  you don’t miss
the news at W&L.
SUBSCRIBE.

For a year’s subscription, just
send $30 payable to
The Ring-tum Phi, P.O. Box

899, Lexington, Va. 24450

SPECIAL INTRO PRICE
FOR FRESHMAN

PARENTS: $25  

 

 

"This Week:

Football- vs. E&H 9/12

Water Polo- W&L Classic 9/ 12-13
M Soccer- at F&M Toumy 9/ 12-13
W Soccer- at Va. Wesleyan 9/ 12

\Volleyball- at CNP 9/ 12

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

3

PAGE 8

Water polo
set to open
in Classic

By Cr-nus SANTORA
Phi Contributing Writer

'l'he young Washington and
Lee water polo team has its work
cut out for them this season, try-
ingtotopasuccessful 1991 cam-

gn.

However.theexpectations for
this year's team are high. Coach
Page Rem-
illard sees
depth as key
to a good sea-
sort.
With all
the possible
starters.Rem-

illard has
been reluc-
tant to namea
starting line-
upand seniorChrisHaggeagrees
with the decision.

“There are so many players
who could work their way into
the starting lineup. It would be
almost impossible to name a
definite starting lineup,” said
I-Iagge.

I-lagge is one of the returning
players Remillard will count on
heavily. He had 18 goals and
was a Division III honorable
mention recipient in 1991.

There are only three seniors
on the entire squad this year,
Hagge, Andrew Pearson and
PJ. Waicus. Each will play a
vital role this season, especially
Waicus.

The team will rely heavily on
its All-American goalie. In 1991
Waicus saved 55 percent of all
shots. had a good 6.6 goals per
gameaverageandwill bekey to
anchon'ngtheGeneraIs' defense.

Pearson will also be impor-
tant to tlte,def.ense.His-1 1 steals
last yearrmakexhim _a key asset
in the Generals‘ zone.

The Generals will be put to
thetestintrnediatelyastheycom-
pete in the W&L Fall Classic,
which should be an indicator of
what direction this 1992 squad
is headed.

    

Hagge

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Generals begin season with renewed confidence

Fallon looks to the run—and—gun to revive W&L offense; expe

By SEAN O'RoURiu2
Phi Sports Editor
If you can meet with triumph and

disaster, And treat those two impostors
just the same.

 
   

__uIfs9

This phrase from Rudyard Kipling’s
classic poem greets every tennis player
as they leave the locker room to enter
the famed Centre Court at Wimbledon.

I don’t think Washington and Lee
head football coach Gary Fallon has
ever made that awesome trek, but he
has incorporated Kipling’s thoughts
into his motto for the 1992 season.

“Early on I brought in the 1-9 record
to show we had a lot of work in front of
us,” said Fallon. “You can leam a great
deal from history and past experiences.
Now I’m easing away from it. You
can’t dwell on it, you have to block it
out and get on the positive side.”

The 1-9 record Fallon is referring to
was the ﬁnal result of a tough 1991
campaign. After ﬁnishing the previous
two seasons at .500, the Generals were
looking at last year as a rebuilding
period. This year Fallon says he ex-
pects better results.

‘‘If we took theﬁeld rightnow,we’d
do much better than we did last year,”
said Fallon. “We have veterans at left
tackle, left guard, center and right guard.
Left tackle is the only spot we have to
ﬁll.

“We also have two tight ends back,
the same running backs and experi-
enced wide receivers. Our quarterback
also has some seasoning.” ,

One of the big problems the Gener-
als encountered last year was lack of
possession time. Their offense had
trouble staying on the ﬁeld long enough

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Senlor trl-captain Lyle Smith prepares to put a hurtln' on freshman
Jay Mccardell. Smith will need to be at the top of his game for
Saturday's tllt with Emory & Henry. The Generals are 0-7 against the
Wasps in the last seven opening-day games.

Women’s soccer opens with depleted squad ,

Catch the Generals

We Sell the Best Seat: In the House
. DENON SONY ES
ADCOM ALPINE
I MONSTER OPTONICA
5 KEF cwo
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
G   G I p I I E I I - SPEAKERTRADEUPPROGRAM
S t t 1 . 3 0 KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

And then read about it in the Phi.

By SEAN O'RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

Athletic coaches dread graduation. It usually means that they
lose their most experienced, and in a majority of the cases, their
best players. That is the situation facing Washington and Lee
women’s soccer coach Janine Hathom..

Hathom lost seven girls to graduation, including the 1991
ODAC Player of Year, defender Nancy Mitchell.

Hathom realizes that those players cannot be replaced, but she
feels this team could be successful as long as they believe in
themselves.

“Some of the girls do not have as much confidence in them-

well.”

Susan Moseley. Moseley is a three-year letterwinner, an
two goals and two assists in 1991. Moseley will be calle
be the leader on the ﬁeld.

feels it’s an important job.”
make big contributions.

Carrington had four goals in 1991 and led the team
with three. Stimeling solidiﬁed the Generals defense wi

qucliotronics'

‘ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

' CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

" MASTER CARD I VISA / DISCOVER

 
   

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS
Let us help you get organized with
Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

1" PHONE: 463 - 1712

15 W. NELSON ST. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

‘with it I might switch to something

selves as I have in them,” said Hathom. “I believe we can do very

Hathom has a lot of confidence in the lone senior, tri-captain

“It’s going to be her (Moseley) play somewhat. It’s just her
nature and character,” said Hathom. “She’s taking it seriously and

Juniors Angie Carrington and Kate Stimeling will also have to

 

Next Week:
Water Polo- EWPA at Princeton 9/19
M Soccer- at Johns Hopkins 9/ 19
I W Soccer- Hollins 9/18
Volleybal1- W&L Invit. 9/ 18-19

A

SEPTEMBER 10, 1592

   
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
     
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
    
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
     
  

rienced secondary improving play ‘

to give their defense time to rest. The
offense handled the ball for an average
of 25 minutes per game. Fallon be-
lieves the new rim-and-gun offense,
W&L’s version of the nm-and-shoot,
if executed properly, could be the an-
swer.

“We don’t have a big tailback to
grind it out, but we have a good set of
receivers and a quarterback to get the
ball to them. They should keep us on
the ﬁeld if we execute. Execution is the
big part of this offense.”

However, don’t be surprised if
Fallon decides to switch back to their
old I-forrnation offense. He does not
believe this offense will be used exclu-
sively.

“The nm-and- gun is not set in stone,”
said Fallon. “If we’re having problems

offense like they had to last season.

“We have good linebackers and .
good group of defensive linemen. Las
year we asked the defense to buy time
for our green offense. We’re ho in 3
we don’t have to do that this yeaﬁ)”

The defensive line and th
linebackin g corps make up the stren gt .
of the unit. Spears is a mainstay a
defensive tackle, along with fellow
senior Thomas May and sophomor
Jason Chartrand. Smith anchors th
defense from his linebacker posﬂion
He’s joined there by sophomore Jame ~
Maberry.

The defensive backﬁeld was a sor‘
spot during parts of last year. Junior
Bill Harker and sophomore Jon Wagne
seem to be the leaders at the comerbac s
spot this year, while sophomores Marc
Newman and Stephen Cox should .-
more experienced at their safety posi
tions.

One ﬁnal area where the General
may have an edge is in the number
department. The Generals nearly
doubled in size with a large inﬂm o
freshmen. Fallon says this will mean
there will be some inexperienced play-
ers on the field at times, but that it
doesn’t diminish his expectations of
them.

“We need them to mature in ahurry,”
said Fallon. “They’ll probably make
more mistakes because of their green-
ness and inexperience. But, they have
to get the job done.”

Fallon said it’s like going into battle.
Once that ﬁrst shot is ﬁred the ne .
guys are no longer new.

With the season-opener only ﬁe
days away, the Generals seem ready to
avenge that 1-9 record. It won't be
easy. Then again, if it was easy, there
would be no need for “If.”

else. But if we’re doing O.K., I don’t
want to change anything.”

The four-receiver offense worked
well for the Generals in their last game
of 1991. W&L handled the Georgetown
Hoyas, 27-12. Geren Steiner was the
triggerrnan for the Generals against the
Hoyas and he will be called upon again
to run the offense, as will the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference’s lead-
ing receiver, William Propst. One of
the tri-captains, tight end Josh
Levinson, will have to show senior
leadership on the ﬁeld.

The Generals defense looks to be a
solid unit again this year. The two
remaining tri-captains are on the de-
fensive side of the ball, seniors -Phil
Spears and Lyle Smith. Both will play
an important part in protecting the
Generals end zone.

Even though this unit is good, Fallon
does not believe the defense will be
asked to buy time for an inexperienced

play in goal. She recorded a school -record nine shutouts, and posted
a 0.88 goals against average.

Hathom says that the defense will need the most work this year .
She says their lack of playing together will be the sticking point.

“The defensive end will need the most work, not because they’r
really inexperienced, but they just haven’t played together,” said
Hathom. ‘

The questions will be answered quickly as the team travels east
to challenge Virginia Wesleyan on Saturday. A strong showin;
could give this team a lot of conﬁdence, exactly what Hathom is

(1 she had
d upon to

looking for.
in assists “I have a lot of conﬁdence in them. I believe they’re going to win
th superb and play well.” '

  
   
      

1 ‘/2 miles out Rt. 60 East
4 Bedrooms. Available Immediately

   

  

 

  Glrléjigppe

3N.Mm'nSt., I.exingtcn,VA 24450
(703) 464-8888

 

 

’Cause if it ain’t in the Phi, it might as c<3°?g’f6§::6f°:‘ , go
,  Tnanglewocz Mall I (/36 00%
Well not Ve happened.  -‘G Taylor: a Ellesmd
631 Waddell Street - Lexington, VA - 453-5004
25% Discount on carry out purchase
KQPPQQOQQO, with this coupon l\
' Full service & carry out catering .
Welcome Back! s;;_- 
. FAX #: 463 - 6918 Lﬁjl 23 N_ Main St.’ Lexington step E
Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5:30 ‘ $2.1" ’
REPRODUCTION JEWELRY . 4 .  .
ft htIt~;BBItIttE, (Jun. ,
C0170” THROWS 102 W. Washington St. ’
TAPESTRIES Welcome Back Students !
PORCELAIN -Duckhead -Red Wing Boots . 1
.-Chamois Shirts -Ray-Bans p
CANDLES -Dirty Bucs & Chocolate Bucs -W&L Belts, 'I‘ies, Dog Collars,
Visors & Keychains '
LACE ‘
CRYSTAL
’lOILETRIES .
_10%  1N. MainSt., Lexington, VA 24450 463-5383 ,
With This Ad (703) 464-8888 VISA, MasterCard, Student Charge ,

 

   
 
 

  
 

I
l
I
I
l
I
I.

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
IEXINGTON, VA. 24450

SEP 18 1992

lHome1=92Jn ‘


 9

 
 

.24

HUNGRY?

New Restaurants Add Variety
to Lexington’s Cuisine 9

Return of Cl Tradition

Washington and Lee Plans Its First
Homecoming Parade In 25 Years

0

Now it’s the English turn

Soccer Takes
Center Stage With
Season Openers At Home

 

~ Uh ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

VOLUME 92, No.2

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Rushees sign up to visit nine houses in the freshman quad Sunday afternoon.

Rush kicks off
with big sign-up

By PAULINE MrrA
Phi Contributing Writer

Ninety-tliree percent of freshman
rﬂen signed up Sunday to endure the
first round of fraternity Rush parties
this week.

Forty more men will participate
this year than in last, Interfrateniity
Council Vice President Tom
Washmon said. Washmon credited the
ﬁcrease to a large freshman class.

“We’re pleased with the turnout
and hope that most of them will
pledge,” Washmon said.

Rushees each chose nine fratemi—
ties to visit during three days of Open
House parties. Washmon said the
most rushees one house received was
197, the least was 24.

Washmon said the IFC will begin
matching preference lists Thursday
night and will post schedules for the
first four Rush Dates Sunday at noon
in Evans Dining Hall. Bids can be
given out Wednesday and accepted
Friday at 5 p.m.

Some freshmen said they were
afraid to have their names printed

Photo by Pauline Mita, The Ring-tum Phi

V

with their comments about Rush.

“It’s alright once you get through
the damn line,” one freshman said.
“Don’t print that....I didn't say that.”

Other freshmen were -concemed
about the time Rush was taking away
from their busy schedules. “That’s an
hour and forty-five minutes at night
when we would be drinking,” one said.
“Rush sucks, no comment.”

Those men not pledging this fall
may participate in deferred rush or in
Alpha Phi Alpha’s potential winter
rush, Washmon said.

However, senior Curtis Joseph, a
member of the Alpha interest group,
said an Alpha chapter probably won’t
exist at W&L before winter term.

Joseph said the Alpha national of-
fice gave approval for the chapter to
exist at W&L, and a chapter will form
as soon as there are seven students,
with the qualifications to initiate. ‘

Joseph said he was encouraging all
freshmen who ask him about Alpha to
go through Rush because he felt it was
an important experience.

“I hope to get this chapter done by
the time I graduate,” Joseph said.
“We’re just waiting on the numbers.”

Photo by Amy French, The Fling-tum Phi

Rushees attended Open House parties this week.

First Rush weekend yields 13 arrests

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

Thirteen W&L students were ar-
resgd on the opening weekend of Rush

‘for alcohol-related violations as ABC
-agents and Lexington police cracked
down on offenses.

“We're not attacking students,”
Lexington Police Chief B.M. Beard
said. “We just want to let them know
th we will enforce the alcohol laws.”

‘wo agents from the state Alco-

uholic Beverage Control Board, along

with Lexington police officers, arrested

‘ students for possession of alcohol un-
‘ der the age of 21 and for being dnink in

public, W&LDirector of Security Mike

Young said.

e arrest numbers are down from

— this time last year, when 20 students

0'.

‘I

V;

I

fr

,‘\

were arrested on the first weekend of
Rush for alcohol violations.

Beard said ABC agents were
brought in to help the police over the
weekend, because the increase in alco-
htﬂ-related violations was anticipated.

“Except for the alcohol, it was a
good weekend,” Beard said.

Efforts to reduce alcohol offenses pay off

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

Arrests of W&L students for alcohol-related viola-
tions dropped 27 percent from 1990-91 to 1991-92
thanks to a joint effort by the school and the city.

Dean of Students David L. Howison said his office
has met with the Interfratemity Council, Lexington City
Police, Lexington Community Council, the Virginia
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and various student
leaders since the 1990-91 school year to plot ways to
decrease the number of student arrests.

“This is one approach to the broad issue of alcohol
abuse at Washington and Lee,” Howison said. “The
first topic we chose to address was the arrest record of
W&L students."

The result has been a steady decrease in alcohol-
related arrests such as underage possession, drunken-
ness in public, noise and litter since 1988. He said
although the overall number of arrests dropped, the
number of arrests for driving under the influence has
remained about the same.

Howison said he meets with every upperclass stu-
dent cited for DUI, and Dean of Freshman and Resi-

dence Life Dennis Manning meets with "freshmen ar-
rested for DUI.

Also in an effort to curb alcohol related problems on
campus, Manning and the dorm counselor staff instituted
a more stringent policy on alcohol possession and con-
sumption in the freshman dorms.

‘ ‘In the past, you got three or four strikes and then you
were referred to the [Student Conduct Committee],”
Manning said. “That was not a sufficient deterrent to
alcohol use in the dorms.”

Manning said a first offense will now result in a $25
fine and six hours of mandatory service in the library or
dining hall. A second offense will result in a $50 fine, 12
hours and parental notification of a pattern of alcohol
abuse. The third offense will result in a review of the
student's standing. Marming said it is possible that a
student would be asked to leave university housing after
a third offense, but said he hopes it doesn’t come to that.

“I know and the dorm counselors know that college
students tend to drink alcohol,” Marming said. “I think
it’s important for someone to impress upon the freshmen
that alcohol is not essential to the college experience.”

Howison said some students don’t realize it is a
misdemeanor to be drunk in public. He said cooperation
of the student body is essential to responsible alcohol use.

‘Hunky’t& Punky

‘ Some W&L graduates are never heard

“.

from again, but not Ryan Kull, '92.
4 Four months after leaving Lexington,
Kull appears in the Sept. 22 issue of the
supermarket tabloid Star with the former
tar of TV’s “Punky Brewster."
The caption underneath a picture of Kull '
»- and Soleil Moon Frye, who recently underwent
,, much-publicized breast reduction surgery,
reads: “Former ‘PunkyBrewster' star Soleil Moon .2: V
Frye is blossoming into quite a woman at 16. Ryan *7
nKull was her hunky date for a movie premiere.”

From the W&L News Office

    

S. Stephenson died June 21 in Roanoke.
He was 69 years old.

“When I die,” Stephenson told the
W&L Alumni Magazine in 1989, “the
notice should say ‘B.S. Stephenson
died today. He loved teaching.’ Next
obituary.”

Stephenson graduated from W&L
in 1942 and returned in 1947 to teach
German. He retired in 1991 as profes-
sor and head of the department.

In 1949, Stephenson founded the
W&L Concert Guild, a concert series

that brings outstanding performers in

Retired German professor Buford C

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 17, 1 992

Comer could
return to jail

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Acting Executive Editor

Charles Blakely Comer, the former
W&L student who served six months in
the Roekbridge County Jail for killing
a freshman in a hit-and-run accident in
1989, could soon be back behind
Roekbridge County's bars because of a
conviction in Georgia.

Comer has been on probation since
1990, when he pleaded guilty in the hit-
and-run case. Now Virginia probation
officer Bob Boyle wants Comer’s pro-
bation revoked because of the Georgia
crime.

Boyle would not comment on the
crime, but WDBJ-TV 7 in Roanoke
reported Comer was convicted of driv-
ing under the inﬂuence in Statham,
Ga., about 45 miles east of Atlanta. A
hearing on that request is set for Oct. 2
in Lexington.

Comer, a W&L junior at the time of
the accident, admitted he was driving
under the influence of alcohol whenhis
car struck and killed Mary Ashley
Scarborough on Washington Streetnear
Lexington City Hall.

Comerpleaded guilty to hit-and-run
and involuntary manslaughter. He was
sentenced to five years in jail, but four
and a half years of that sentence were
suspended.

Comer has been on probation in

I South Carolina and Georgia since serv-

ing the six-month term.
If Comer is found guilty of violating

I his probation, he could be jailed for the

full four and a half years left on his
original sentence.

WDBJ reported Wednesday that
Comer was arrested for driving with a
blood-alcohol level twice the legal limit.
He was fined $44, apenalty in Georgia
for a first-offense DUI, according to
WDBJ.

     

The Statharn Clerk of Court’s office
couldnotconﬁrm the conviction Thurs-
day morning.

Comer could not be located for com-
ment. His family in South Carolina did
not return telephone calls Wednesday
night.
The Scarborough family could not

~ »~ I .;..; 1.” be located
' for com-
ment by
press time
Thursday.

S c a r -'
borough’s
death in
1 9 8 9
s t u n n e d
and horri-
fied Wash-
ington and
Lee.Police
searchedin
vain for
suspects in the case for eight months,
until they received a tip naming Comer.

Acting on the tip, a Lexington po-
lice officer drove to Comer’s home in
Greenville, S.C., on Nov. 30, 1989, to
identify the ear that hit Scarborough.
Comer was arrested at W&L the same
day.
During a 1990 court appearance,
Comer testified that on the night
Scarborough died he told his three
W&L roommates what happened. He
then drove to northern Virginia to re-
pair his car, which was damaged in the
collision.

On the bench in 1990, Judge
Rudolph Bumgardner III talked about
the impact of the Comer’s actions on
W&L.

“This tragedy is compounded by
the attempts to cover up the truth,”
Bumgardner said. “This tragedy is a
low point for an institution known for
its honesty and integrity.”

-x, v_

   

Comer

Alumnus creates alliance
for W&L gays, lesbians

By KATY YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

Gay and lesbian W&L alumni and
students now have an organization to
call their own.

The Gay and Lesbian Alliance, or
GALA, is primarily for alumni but will
also be open to students, said director
Sean Bugg, ’89. So
far, GALA is

common experience at W&L.” Bugg
said the group will also let homosexual
students know that there are people
who have been through the same things
they are experiencing.

“It can be very uncomfortable to be
gay at W&L,” Bugg said.

Bugg said the idea for GALA was
formed while he was still a student at
W&L, but he has only recently had the

time to put the idea
into action. The

mainly a loose net-
work of about 20
alumni, most of
whom met while
students at W&L,
Bugg said.

Bugg said his
goals in forming
GALA include cre-
ating a newsletter
and providing information on gay- and
lesbian-related issues to the university
and to homosexual students currently
enrolled.

“I would hope the school would
look for some input from us” regarding
homosexual-related issues and projects
like AIDS awareness programs, Bugg
said.

Bugg said he hopes GALA will help
bring people together “who shared a

music to the campus.

Stephenson’s dinner parties for col-
leagues and students helped make him
a legend on campus. The parties were
one way Stephenson fostered the stu-
dent-faculty relationships he believed
were the essence of the W&L experi-
ence.

“The accessibility of faculty to stu-
dents here is just about the greatest
thing we have to offer,” Stephenson
told the Alumni Magazine. ‘‘I’m just a
person who takes the word ‘friend’
very seriously.”

Stephenson was buried June 25 in
the Clinton, N.C., Cemetery. He re-
quested that there be no service at W&L.

W8: L

 

group will be
based in Washing-
ton, D.C., with
members already

the country.

Jim Farrar, di-
rector of Alumni
Programs, said
GALA will only
serve to divide the alumni.

“The best way to keep the bond
between the university and our alumni
strong is through one cohesive alumni
association, not divided by a collection
of subgroups based on experiences as
students, or professional and personal
experiences as alumni,” Farrar said.

Farrar said the new organization
will be discussed by the Alumni Board
of Directors at its next meeting.

Stephenson: ‘He loved teaching’

 

Stephenson

 

 

spread out across

 

PAGE 2

    

Ellie iaing-tum lﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

A Footbridge
for the future

The fate of The Footbridge will be discussed Tuesday.

Not the big suspension bridge, that is, but the student
magazine that debuted last winter. And its fate should not be
interwoven with the Publications Board.

If you haven't heard of The Footbridge, we're not too
surprised. It didn’t make a very big splash.

In an exercise in open-mindedness last winter, the Pub
Board granted a group of student petitioners $500 for a go at a new
publication.

The board decided there was room at W&L for a news
magazine. The publication could cover W&L news issues with a
lengthy depth the Phi has neither the space nor time to accommo-
date, the board said.

Well, The Footbridge gave it a go. But the two pilot issues
the staff produced last winter and spring just didn’t cut it as news
magazines.

Last year’s big stories were reported rapes on campus, the
matter of the Watson Gallery, the re-establishment of Alpha Phi
Alpha, the suspension of Delta Tau Delta, the death throes of the
Conﬁdential Review Committee, and, as always, Fraternity Re-
naissance.

Not one of those stories was covered in the pages of The
Footbridge.

Some of The Footbridge’s stories did make for a good
read. Alex Ruskell’s ﬁrst-person piece, “Why I Love Elvis and
You Should Too; Or, 50 Million People Can’t Be Wrong,” was
entertaining. But its value in a campus news magazine was, at best,

 debatable.

In fact, The Footbridge on the whole, while sometimes

 entertaining, was not much of a news magazine. And that was the

,-.-.v.-.-.—.-.-.-.-.~_--..-,.--....-- ,—---:-<-'----- -‘---‘---—-----~—-4---

~.~ ,~. 3-,?‘ u- .- .»-5-:-4-.-r.-.'—:.-.v.a‘

mission the Pub Board had spelled out for it. Thus the Pub Board
should not endorse The Footbridge Tuesday.

But all need notbe lost forFootbridge supporters and staff.
Lack of recognition by the Pub Board did not stop the Spectator
from blossoming at W&L; that magazine, to the contrary, thrives
on its independence.

If enough students want The Footbridge to stick around,
they should transform that desire into action. Sell ads. Write
stories. Solicit readers. And petition the Executive Committee for
support.

Instead of trying to fit into a mold carefully carved out by
the Pub Board, The Footbridge might be more successful just
doing its -own thing.» We look‘ forward to seeing your ideas and
creativity‘§onstr’trct‘an arr-nefv; independent Ft’§ol,’b:r'idge'.‘; 

" ' vmmmmum

Don't be stupid

Well, Rush is here again, and from all indications, it looks like
this year will be just as drunken as ever, despite university efforts
to change things. You may recall that last fall, 20 students were
arrested for alcohol-related infractions during the first week of
Rush. And seven students tore straight from a fratemity into the
hospital. Not to mention the countless others whose friends had to
watch them sleep so they wouldn't drown in vomit. Not a pretty
image, huh?

We at the Phi wouldn’t dream of suggesting that we all go dry
for Rush. All we’d like to ask is that you try to use your heads.
Don’t walk down the street with an obviously alcoholic drink -
the police are out in force and they don’t have any qualms about
ruining the best party weekends of the year. If you’ve been
drinking, don't wander around Lexington alone, and don’t even
consider driving. Take care of each other and of yourself. Rush
doesn’t have to include students blacking out, puking or getting
hurt. Believe it or not, letting loose doesn’t have to mean losing
control, and thinking and drinking aren't mutually‘ exclusive.

The Fling-tum Phi, September 17, 1992

WASHINGTON —— The search for
reasons to re-elect George Bush re-
sembles for many the 19th century
search for the source of the Blue Nile:
hard going. Here are some questions
which, were he to answer them, might
make it easier for many to vote for him
with ungritted

cans live, California's Republican gov-
ernor has dispelled some of the fatal-
ism about statism. It is the belief that
there is a leftward-working ratchet in
contemporary society, so that govem-
ment growth can be occasionally
slowed but never reversed. Wilson did

it by resisting

teeth.

Vice Presi-
dent Quayle
wants voters to
clarifyresponsi-

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

various suppos-
edly irresistible
factions and en-
during some
chaos and acri-

bility in Wash-

ington — to elect a president and Con-
gress of the same party, both Demo-
cratic or both Republican. Do you
agree?

When you said in Houston that
Clinton's election would mean ‘ ‘a rub-
ber-check Congress and a rubber-stamp
president,” were you not predicting a
Democratic Congress in 1993? Are
you not really recommending your re-
election on the ground that you can
styrnie Congress and enforce the (sup-
posedly) dreaded “gridloc " of gov.-
¢.mment?.  ...  _.

"Most second terms are (even) worse
than most first terms. Your argument
for a second term is: Hey don’t blame
me, I couldn't deal with a Democratic
Congress. If you couldn't deal with it
after the 40-state sweep of 1988, how
will you be stronger if you stagger into
larne-duck status only because people
decide Clinton would be even worse?

Out where one-eighth of all Ameri-

mony. Can you
convincingly promise similarly con-
structive chaos and acrimony — a less
kind and gentle Bush, beginning now,
by vetoing the $2.3 billion legislative
appropriation bill, the money Congress
spends on itself?

Loyalty is a virtue, up to a point.
You have passed that point. What are
ten-thumbed hands of Messrs. Darman
and Brady doing still on the tiller of
economic policy? You say this elec-
tion is about “tn.rst." Should we just
trust you to sack them, someday, over

the rainbow? On the other hand,_when,,
‘ you say Congress is to blame for every-

thing, does that mean you see no reason
to change your advisors?

But, then, you may be thinking,
“To blame for what?” You recently
said of the country's economic condi-
tion, ‘‘I’m not sure it’s worse than four
years ago.” Really? More people are
in poverty than in 1989, median house-
hold income is down, as are average

Difficult questions remain unanswered

hourly earnings in the private sector.
(Probably not in government, of
course.)

One of your finest achievements is
the Nonh American Free Trade Agree-
ment. But critics say it is part of a
sinister plan to further depress Ameri-
can wages by exposing workers to
cheap foreign competition. Is your con-
servatism compatible with government
measures to help workers cope with the
rapid change that is the consequence of
the internationalization of economic
life?

A few days after your nrnning mate
told grateful workers in Michigan there
would be billions spent upgrading tanks
that your administration recently said
should not be upgraded, you were in
Humboldt, South Dakota. There, in a
speech warning against a Clinton
“spending binge” and announcing a
sweetening of agriculture subsidies, you
told the farmers you favored “keeping
government off your back. ” Do you
wonder why people think your words
reﬂect no ballastof belief? . . ..

The Republican platform (surely it
was just a bluff jocularitywhen you
saidyou hadn't read it) says: “We be-
lieve a free market in art — with nei-
ther suppression nor favoritism by gov-
ernment -—- is the best way to foster the
cultural revival our country needs.”
Does that mean, as it seems to, the
National Endowment for the Arts —
and, while you are at it, public televi-
sion subsidies?

At last the world has a perpetual
motion machine — the clanking
prosecutorial jalopy of independent
counsel Lawrence Walsh. It is running
up court failures and millions of dollars
of expenses, while bankruptin g people
who are acquitted. Here is something
you can do without Congress’ permis-
sion: Will you send him packing? O

Just another day in paradise: After a
drug—related fusillade in the Bronx
wounded 12 bystanders, a father tried
to comfort a hysterical daughter who
was shot in the head. A mother cradled
her daughter who was shot in the back.
A 16-year-old girl hit many times lgz
buckshot was returning from the police
station where she had filed a report
about being mugged. Her 18-year-old
sister, also hit, may be permanently
paralyzed. Across the continent, Los
Angeles County set a one—montl1 record
in August: 263 probable homicidg,
169 from gunshots. Do you really have
no thoughts about guns in America,
beyond your tepid acceptance of what
police everywhere desire — the mild
Brady bill, with its brief waiting period
and _background checks for gun pur-
chasers? V ‘

Finally, does the carnage of chi?-
dren in our blood—spattered cities, or
anything else, make you simply furi-
ous, or is there only one thing that does
—— Congress’ refusal to cut the tax rate
on capital gains?

Just wondering.

(c) 1992, Washington For! Writers Group

1992 contest hits the red zone

L-.-iv»-t-ixq.-is-.—.-.9.-.-.-.-.-J-.~=.-P.-2-.6.-:-2-a-:-r-.—r.~.r-«mic art 1: 4 4'4-in-I-34 I-on-.~s-o--v -vi» - v we . ti 4 1'0‘-v -v -o v 1 rv ow .v «A ~ a nap»: ~ ~ .. a.-_-- .3 ,4.
v

Ellie illittg-tttm iﬂlri’

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiecolo, Richard Peltz

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joshua Manning

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nikki Magaziner

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appearin that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON— The 1992 presidential carn-
paign has crossed the 20-yard line into what some
NFL footballers have started calling the “red zone.”
The fightbetween George Bush, 68, and Bill Clinton,
46, is now deadly serious. Through the seven weeks
that lie between this

Day crowd, using his latest presidential role model to
clip his current presidential foe.

The game plan is familiar. Four years ago, Bush
learned that the best way to sack an opposing quarter-
back is, a) have the team captain himself nail the

target first; b) have the rest of

Tuesday and Nov. 3,
expect to see sweaty
faces, bone-wrench-
ing tackles and lots of
mud on the uniforms.

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

the team prepped to pile on.
They're getting good at this.
Within a split second after Bush
connected at his Wisconsin
rally, well-placed ringers had

Here's how the
Bush side, down by
15 points, now seems intent on pulling it out:

1. Pressure the Quarterback!

The Bush—Quayle forces have obviously decided
that they can't win the game on points. If the '92
election turns on the old “Are you better off?" ques-
tion, the contest’s already been decided. The home
team's lone chance of victory lies in wearing down
the opposing QB, hopefully knocking him out of the
game.

Why else did the Bush side spend the past week
red-dogging challenger Bill Clinton on how he dealt
with the draft nearly a quarter-century ago?

What's striking, especially to the experts watch-
ing, is that George Bush led the draft assault himself.
“Harry Truman wanted to join the military and fight
for his country. So did I, and I did," he told a Labor

taken up the cheer: “Where was

Bill? Where was Bill?" By
week's end, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, a disabled
World War II veteran, and retired Marine Corps
commandant Paul X. Kelley had both landed hard on
the Democrat.

2. Play the Clock!

Bush-Quayle coach Jim Baker knows that, with
time running out, the home team has two great
advantages: a)It can decide when to stop the political
game and act presidential, tending to Hurricane An-
drew, Saddam Hussein and other nasty advantages of
incurnbency; b) It can also decide when to play to
game.

Poll history teaches that the moment presidential
candidates set a date for a debate, voters freeze.
Everyone waits to see what happens when the two
men actually get ‘together.

Hence coach Baker's stall: Ifhe agrees to a debate
schedule now, with the President still 10 or mot:
points down, he sends Bush onto the field as a
decided underdog. If he plays the clock another
week, keeping maximum pressure on Clinton's “char-
acter,” he’s got an outside chance of having Bush
meet his rival with the point difference down to five.

Baker, as coach of the home team, will also insist
on when the debates are done with. q

For some very potent reasons, expect the Bush-
Clinton confrontations done by no later than mid-
October. Those powerful reasons are the constitu-
tional and political powers of the American presi-
dency. The Bush team wants to have the messy game
of politics out of the way to give the White House
folks plenty of time— three weeks would be exceb
lent, to display for voters the uncertainties facing
American in the world today, the absolute need for a
president with the global seasoning, and yes, the
character, to face down these uncertainties. Having
devoted September to shaking voters’ faith in Bill
Clinton, late October will be devoted to instilling a
renewed faith in George Bush, convincing Americ
that its best hopes for the next four years lie with the
team that's been running things the last four.

Even with the best of coaches, this final play of
the '92 presidential game, set deep in the “red zone,”
could prove the hardest to execute.

(c) 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

LETTERS

Humor columnists get bashed by readers

Dear Mr. Chris Citron,

Do we sense a twinge of bitterness
in your recent Ring Turn Phi publish-
ing? For those who were not enlight-
ened by Mr. Citron's article, he in-
formed the W&L students that 1991 ’s
freshman women were shallow, “has-
been beauty queens," and interested
only in upperclassmen. Mr. Citron, you
have insulted me as well as many sopho-
more women who do not even begin to
fit into your stereotype.

Furthermore, it is hypocritical of
you to encourage this year's freshman

women to date only the upperclassmen
because “they’re more fun anyway,"
when you have just berated the sopho-
more class for following your own
advice.

Given, there might have been a few
freshman women last year who prima-
rily dated upperclassmen—— but who
are you to judge them? Even so, they
are the exception to the rule; the major-
ity of last year’s freshmen dated within
their own class and maintained many
close friendships with the males of
their own class.

For you to say that the freshman
women of last year were so shallow
that we deliberately forgot our fresh-
man male counterparts in favor of up-
perclassmen attention is hardly sound
advice coming from someone who pro-
claims the freshman face book as his
holy bible. I'm sorry if you might have
had a problem with someone in last
year’s freshman class, but the entire
sophomore class is not to be blamed for
your romantic failings.

Jen Hickes, '95

To the Editor,

Ihave endured barium high colinics‘

that were less painful than last week's
“Spos' Space.”

The Phi's new humor columnist,
Tom Hespos, is probably a wonderful
human being, but his futile attempt in
last week's issue was both embarrass-
ing and sad. Somebody please put this
guy out ofhis misery or at least hide his
word processor.

Sincerely,
Paul Mallos, '93

Presidential candidates are indistinguishable

To the Editor,

It seems the Phi is in a guideline-reshapin g mood.
Splendid. While you're at it, why not take my advice
on how to clarify political chitchat during this fun-
filled campaign?

Every four years, here in Freedom's Land, the
group of organizations designated by that unlovely

word, “media," does its best to a) exclude discussion
of every salient issue from public discourse, and b)
demonstrate that some meaningful difference exists
between the two lucky presidential contestants. Task
a) is generally a success; task b), being impossible, is
not always so well brought off. Since the Phi is
doubtless eager to join its establishment press pals in

the con game (those eminent dispensers of conven-
tional bullshit, Chris Matthews and George “Mr.
Chicago" Will, have already been recruited) l have a
suggestion regarding how better to distinguish the

U see LETTERS, page 2

O

 

D

The Ring-tum Phl, September :1, 1992

D From LETTERS, page 2

two candidates.

Names, titles, and party affiliations
arin’t good enough. In terms of “posi-
tions" on the “issues,” and realistic
policy trajectories, corporate America's
nominees for the presidency are so
palpably indistinguishable that I have
trouble keeping track of which is which.
Which one is the incumbent, anyway?
which one the challenger? I can’t re-
member.

To dispel this confusion, I suggest

 Kathekon revives tradition

To the Student Body,

This is a letter urging your support for the
Homecoming Parade on Oct. 3 at 11:00 a.m. It
is an effort to get the whole school excited about
the game between the Generals and Randolph-

con.The entire school has the opportunity to
witness the rebirth of an old tradition. It has
been over twenty years since W&L celebrated
Homecoming in such a fashion. The Alumni
Office and Kathekon (a student alumni group)

the Phi resort, as I have done, to imme-
diately recognizable descriptions. In-
stead of referring to George Clinton
and Bill Bush by name, use “Fat Sleazy
Imbecile” and “Gaunt Whining Bas-
tard.” Your readers will appreciate the
clariﬁcation.(Other terms which spring
to mind—such as “racist,” “war-mon-
gering,” “lying”—-— apply more or less
equally to both contestants, and so are
unhelpful in setting up the desired dis-
tinction.)

Niall MacKenzie, ’93

 

ties and clubs about entering ﬂoats or some
kind of vehicle in the parade to show their spirit
for the Generals. We hope that these groups
have already started to formulate plans as to
how they will participate in the parade. Ifyou’re
not involved in the making of a ﬂoat we surely
hope you will be standing along the parade
route cheering the procession along. Time is
short (about two weeks) so we all need to
mobilize quickly to ensure a big success.

are organizing the event and making sure things

run smoothly. We have been in contact with
vlrious groups, including fraternities, soren-

Tom Hooper '93
Kathekon President

Student mourns professor

To the Student Body,

As a result of its conspicuous and
unfortunate absence from the first edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi, I feel com-
pelled to inform the student body of
Professor Buford Stuart Stephenson’s
untimely death over the course of the
summer. Professor Stephenson, pro-
fessor of German, Emeritus, died sud-
denly of an aneurysm on June 21, after
a two year struggle with a heart condi-
tion. His presence in and around Wash-
ington and Lee will be sorely missed.

Having been a_ student of Professor
Stephenson ’s for three semesters, 1 can
attest to his absolute dedication to both
his students and the university to which
he dedicated his entire life. Professor
Stephenson possessed an extraordinary

To the Editor,

Thanks guys!

Binky Parkins ’94

interest in the well-being of his stu-
dents.

His teaching methods were strict
and his academic standards were high,
for he accepted no less than a student’s
best. Yet, his rigidness was tempered
by an unwavering enthusiasm for life
that made his class both challenging
and pleasurable.

I am certain that generations of
Washington and Lee students are be-
holden to Professor Stephenson for in-
spiring within them this same zeal for
leaming and life. Perhaps this is the
greatest compliment that can be paid to
a professor. I hope it is.

Sincerely,
John Kalmbach ’93

Gentlemen still exist

I'd like to thank the brothers of Lambda Chi Alpha for their
kindness and friendship. This past week a close family member
of mine died and they supported me through a very difficult
couple of days. On Monday evening I returned home to find a
beautiful bouquet of flowers awaiting me.

Lambda Chi Alpha has renewed my belief that the proverbial
‘ ‘W&L gentleman’ ’ can still be found and that everything that
Washington and Lee stands for is alive and well.

Nicknames are all in the personality

ONE GUY’s OPINION
By Chris Citron

Okay, so there I was, a few days
after high school graduation, and the
only thing that I was thinkin’ about was
getting laid. Damn, wrong column.
Sorry Dr. Worth.

Anyway, I was sittin’ around the
summer before my freshman year at

college, trying to figure out what it was

really gonna be like. I was preparing
myself for the change in alcohol con-
sumption, sleeping habits, weight gain,
etc.: the importantthings. Butlnever
fathomed that the one thing I consid-
ered to be associated with me more
than anything else would be stripped
away from my essence: my cheesy
wardrobe. Sorry, wrong column again.
meant my name.

In high school my name was Chris.
There were variations to that, of course,
such as “s___head” and
“f ” (ﬁgure that one
out), and they were said in a very lov-
ing manner. Now, those have kinda

ollowed me to college, but one name
above all others has emergedvand be-
come a permanent fixture to my col-
lege persona. (This sounds great, but
somehow the name “Chachi” does not
bring to lightthe distinction I was look-
ing for.) Yes, my name is Chachi, and
I need to talk about it.

Anyone who ever watched televi-
sion is the seventies, and re-mns in the

eighties knows the character for which
I am named. (Except Chris Doherty)
Chachi, alias Scott Baio: seventeen-
time champion of Teen-Beat pin-up
poster boy, was Fonzi’s cousin on
“Happy Days,” who later married
Joanie and had a real successful career
as a rock singer in the award-winning
spin-off ‘ ‘Joanie Loves Chachi, ’ ’ which
lasted ap- ‘

In fact, I don't know any.) And finally,
it's a pretty decent icebreaker. “Hi, my
name’s Lisa, and I’m down with O.P.P.
What's yourname? Chachi? Like from
‘Happy Days?’ You must be a
cheeseball. Well, bye.”
Unfortunately, that’s the end of it.
There aren't any more good points to
the name. Why? Don't be stupid.

p r 0 xi-
mately 27
minuteson
p r i m e
time. To
describe
himwould
be to
...well,

wastealot’ ""namg._'_ 
of timei  “  ‘

Scott Baio... He’s a typical cheeseball. End
of story. Except, he’s Italian as well, which
is not necessarily redundant, although in
my case it was. Hence the perfect nick-

He’s ‘a ‘V

typical

cheeseball. End of story. Except, he’s
Italian as well, which is not necessarily
redundant, although in my case, it was.
Hence, the perfect nickname: Chachi,
the cheesy, Eye-talian-looking kid from
New Jersey. Perfect.

And for many reasons it still is per-
fect. People certainly remember my
name when I tell them, which is a
vitally important characteristic for
Rushing...guys and girls. Idon’t get
mixed up with all the other Chris’ on
campus which is equally important for
both them and me. (I don't know too
many people who would want to be
mistaken for a cheesy New Jerseyite.

More than half the people who know
me as Chachi don't even know I have a
last name. It's ARCHOLA! If you talk
to them of Chris Citron, they have
absolutely no idea of whom you're
speaking, which is particularly frus-
trating when you’re talking to your-
self.

“Chachi” also gets mutated very
easily and the results seem to worsen
with each passing year. One girl, dur-
ing my sophomore year, must have
overheard my name, was not fonnally
introducedandsocalledme“Chi-Chi.”
My pledge brothers get even more cre-
ative, striving to top “Choochie,”

__ usexfa

Benji Plummer, ‘94, Atlanta, Ga.

Interviews and Photos
" by Jameson Leonardi

“TALCKBACKJ

“Chachi in Charge,” “Chachi-Malachi,
Luigi-Figi,” and the ever popular
“Crotchie.” I’m sure that something
even better will turn up this year, as
long as I am still associated with Scott
Baio and not Adrian Zmed.

I can't watch “Happy Days” any-
more because every time they call
“Chachi” my ears pick up like a dog's
do when you call him. Although to be
honest, Istill can't decide whether that’s
a good thing or not.

And let’s not even get started on
intimacy. How exciting is it to hear, let
alone say, “Ooh, make love to me
Chachi.” “Yes, you know how I like
it... Chachi Archola.” “I want to be
your Joanie.” Alright, so it's great the
first thirteen times but it gets pretty
tiring wearing that same damn red ban-

danna around your leg the whole time -
during sex. (Actually, I’m just joking. I.

I haven’t even had sex thirteen times).
“Chachi” does just not translate into
“sex”; or “stu ”; “cheeseball” is the
only true translation.

And yet for all my bitching, I
was truly upset when another fratemity
nicknamed one of their pledges
“Chachi” last year. Granted, he looks a
lot more like Scott Baio than I do, but
he’s not even close to the level of
cheese that I have attained. Hell, I
guess I'm proud of the name. lt’s mine
and whether I like it or not, I’m stuck
with it. So what do you call me?
Whatever’s appropriate at the time.
However, given my nature, I’m sure
that most of the time it will be Chachi.

PAGE 3

 

The Registrar

The Registrar's office is ﬁnaliz-
ing the information for the Student
Directory. Please make sure they
have your correct local address and
phone number. Deadline to make
changes is Sept. 21.

Debate

Pi Sigma Alpha and United We
Stand American will sponsor an eco-
nomic debate between Steve
Musselwhite and Bob Goodlatte,
candidates for the 6th Congressional
district. The debate will be Monday,
Sept. 28, from 7-9 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

2 College Dem.

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats Sunday, Sept.
27 at 7 p.m. in room 109 of the
University Center. Bring checks for
membership dues. Call Cottie Miles
at 464-6133.

EC Budgets

The Executive Committee will
hear budgetary requests beginning
Monday Sept. 28. These hearings
will continue throughout the week,
and possibly the next week as well,.
Deliberations concerning E.C. al-
lotrnents to student organizations
will follow the hearings. All pro-
ceedings are open to members of the
W&L student body.

If representatives of the various
student organizations requesting al-
locations have a preference for a
specific date they would like to
present their budgets, such repre-
sentatives should contact Ames
Hutton at 463-8588 (office) or 463-
9108 (home).

The EC

The Executive Committe will in-
terview students for positions on the
Student-Faculty-Hearing Board on
Sept. 23. Applications canbepicked
up outside of Carol Calkin’s office

FD Chairmen

The EC will intreview students
for the positions of Fancy Dress
chair,vice-chairand auditoron Sept.
24. Applications can be picked up
outside of Carol Calkins’ office.

 n:."l',~';:‘» gs

.-~’: "Cr! I ‘ll’
Model -U.t«N.«
-Foreign Affair Club meeting
Sept. 20, at 7:30. Model United
Nations at UPenn information will
be given. Contact Christine Will at
464-3760 for more info

... ,t
, 
,;.._.L

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault(RACASA)
is organizing a training course for
new volunteers. The course will
consist of thirty-three hours of train-
ing. Topics to be covered include
myths and facts about sexual as-
sault,crisisintervention,emotional,

medical and legal issues, the sex

offender, child sexual abuse and
risk reduction.

The course will run from Oct. 6
to Dec. 15. RACASA provides cri-
sis intervention and victim support
services as well as public program-
ming on sexual assault and risk
reduction. Anyone interested in
training as a volunteer, or anyone
seeking additional information,
should call the hotline at 463 -RAPE
(7273).

Parade

Are you ready for the Home-
coming Parade on Oct. 3? Catalogs
and materials for floats can be or-
dered tomorrow, Sept. IS, in front
of the Co-op from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
The next parade chainnen’s meet-
ing is scheduled for Sept. 22, in
room 109 of the Student Center.
Any questions can be directed to
Tom Hooper at 464-6682.

Study Abroad

If you would like to study in
Bath, with time in Oxford and
Stratford, come to Baker 106 at 2
p.m. on Friday, Sept. 18. If you are
interested in studying abroad on a
program not run by Washington
and Lee, please see Kirk Folio dur-
ing study abroad office hours: Mon-
day 3-5, Wednesday 3:15-5:15, or
by appointment. If you are inter-
ested in studying at the University
of St. Andrews for a year, please
come to Baker 106 at 2 p.m. on
Monday, Sept. 21.

New Committee

The newly formed Student De-
velopment Committee is currently
accepting applications for student
class agents.These individuals will
beresponsible forzcoordinatingthe
student phonathon program; work-
ing with alumni to encourage sup-
port of the university; and other
development activities. Anyone in-

--—-terested should sign up outside
.. .C.aro1. .Ca1!<.insi9Iﬁ¢e in the Uni-
versity Center for an interview.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Calyx office.

For the Record

Jodi Schaubach testified in the June 30 preliminary hearing that she did

not have a boyfriend at VMI.

Also, the candlelight procession in support of Schaubach took place

Tuesday, Sept. 8.

What’s your favorite hangover cure?

Wilson Moore, ‘94, Tuscaloosa,
Ala. — “Beating my roommate's
dog.“

Julie-Ann Olejniczak, ‘96, New York, N.Y. and Vanessa Vettier, ‘96,
Paris, France — “We set trash cans on fire and wear pantyhose on our
heads.“

 

Reggie Aggarwal, ‘94L, Alexan-
dria, Va. — “An Indian elixir that
has been guarded by my family for
centuries.“

Bill Coffin, ‘93, Easton, Pa. —
“Three Advils and a bowl of
noodles.“

PAGE 4

Gaylard

From Mozart to Gershwin
Ga ylard performs tonight at Lenfest

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

The melodic chords of Beethoven’s
Sonata in F minor, Op. 57 and
Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” will
ﬂood tlte Lenfest Center when Associ-
ate Professor of Music Timothy
Gaylard perfomts tonight.

“When I play, I feel as though I’m
recreating what the composer put on
the page,” Gaylard said.

Though he is not from a musical
family, Gaylard said, he always felt
drawn to music.

“Music has always been important
to me,”Gaylard said. “I couldn’t imag-
ine not making it part of my life.”

Gaylard received his B.A. in math
and B.Mus. degrees at Carleton Uni-
versity.

“I once thought that my future was
in math,” Gaylard said. “But music
was too important to me.”

Gaylard went on to receive his Ph.D.
in musicology from Columbia Univer-
srty.
He also has two Associate Royal
Conservatory of Toronto degrees in
piano performance and pedagogy. and
a diploma from the Mozarteum in

Salzburg, Austria where he studied with
Winfried Wolf in 1974.

“He [Wolf] studied with one of Franz
Liszt’s last students,” Gaylard said.
“He passed on his knowledge of tech-
nique and interpretation."

Gaylard said the most important
lesson taught by Wolf is “fidelity to
your style.”

The summer he spent in Salzburg
was exciting, he said.

“You can’t beat going to Europe to
stay in the city where Mozart lived to
learn,” Gaylard said.

From Wolf, Gaylard also said he
learned the importance of discipline.

“Washington and Lee students see
music as a comfort and an inspiration,”
he said. “Making music is difficult, but
rewarding. ” '

Since comin g to Lexington in 1984,
Gaylard has played in many recitals, as
soloist and accompanist.

He also performed at the first an-
nual Sonoklect (the new music festi-
val).

Last January, he appeared as piano
soloist in Rachmaninoff ’s Piano Con-
certo No. 2 with the University Or-
chestra for the opening of the Lenfest
Center.

Tonight's 7 p.m. concert is open to
the public and free of charge.

    

U

The Ring-rum Phi, September 17, 1992

FEATURES

Institutes loss of tou h touch

 

Flowers replace rats at VMI

From The Associated Press

As ﬂowers appear on dining room
tables and cadets enter sensitivity train-
ing seminars, some alumni of Virginia
Military Institute wonder what’s hap-
pening to the school’s tough image.

“I hearspme of the alumni say things
are going to hell, VMI is going,” said
Gary Hast, a member of The
Commandment’s Alumni Advisory
Committee and a 1977 graduate.

Many of those alumni are the same
ones waging war to keep women out of
the cadet corps. But as change guides
the all-male military school into the
21 st century, small changes are begin-

ning to irritate alumni.

“We are trying to keep the traditions
of the old corps, but at the same time
we must adjust for the future,” said
Col. N. Michael Bisscll, commandant
of cadets. “We need to examine where
we’ve been and where we’re going.”

Class rings no longer bear‘ the Con-
federate ﬂag because administrators
say it’s an inappropriate symbol for an
institution with growing numbers of
blacks among its ranks.

The school also stopped playing
“Dixie” at its annual ceremony com-
memorating 10 cadets who died fight-
ing Union troops in 1864.

In addition, administrators are try-

Virginia Military Institute cadets parade in full military regalia

 

ing to clean up the school’s mess hall

act. Flowers adorn tables.

During meals, rats no longer have
to hold a knife between their knees
while eating with their chins plastering
to their chests and run to and from each
meal.

Seniors are allowed to have cars,
make more trips into town and wear
civilian clothes.

“The standard joke amongst alumni
is VMI is the only school with 150
years of history unmarred by progress,”
said J.R. Worsham III, a 1967 gradu-
ate. “Lately there have been some small
changes, but major objectives of VMI
haven't changed much.”

Worsham claims VMI’s disciplin-
ary traditions have well served his fam-
ily, including his son,
Tucker, who is a member
of the class of 1993.

But he also said he fa-
vors getting rid of some of
the hazing.

One rough initiation rite
is the “rat line,” which is
intended to humiliate and
bend a first-year student's
mental strength to the point
of breaking, said
Worsham, who remembers
being beaten with a coat
hanger.

That kind of behavior is
now unacceptable, Btssell
said.

“There's a saying
around here: ‘Don’t ask a
rat to do anything that you
wouldn't do, right now and
exactly as you asked them

to do it,’” he said.
' Bissell is calling for a
“more professio ” rat line
and has been pushing in

came commandant two
years ago.

But any change at VMI
is going to take a long time,
said Hast, past president of
the Virginia Beach VMI
Alumni Association.

“Over the past 100 years
__ small things have changed
and it’s been very slow,”
Hast said. “But you have to
remember, nothing happens
overnight at VMI.”

File Photo

that direction since he be- '

Parade
returns
to W&L

Homecoming floats are

again part of festivities

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

It has been 25 years since
Lexington has seen a Washing-
ton and Lee Homecoming Pa-
rade march through the city
streets.

This y ear, the spirit -ﬁlled
tradition will be back.

At 11 a.m. on Saturday, Oct.
3, a long line of student-built
ﬂoats, bands, emergency crews
and local elected officials will

leave Brewbaker field and head
toward Liberty Hall ruins.

Accord-
‘"8 . ‘° The 1992
AlurnntR -
resentatiefe :"°mec°m'
Matthew ng Parade
Fewer’ the Will be 00!.
procession 3 at 11 3-mu
will tromp starting at
th r o u g h Brubaker
downtown F|e|d_
Lexington,
b u i 1 din g

spirit for the football game
against Randolph-Macon and
increasing interaction between
students and alumni..

Felber said the parade tro-
phy will be kept on permanent
display in the Co-op. Parade
winners will be announced at
halftime during the Homecom-
ing football game.

Fraternities, sororities and
all other student organizations
are invited to enter the ﬂoat
competition.

Kathekon, the student
alumni group, hopes for full
student body participation.

“We expect competition for
the Homecoming Parade tro-
phy to be intense,” said
Kathekon President Tom
Hooper.

l

 

Apple Macintosh PowerBook" 145 4/40

 
  
 

$880 4/40
$988 4/so

Apple Macintosh Classic’ II

Buy one   of these.

of ese.

Get over ‘4OO worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and
Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever.
And if you are interested in ﬁnancing options, be sure to ask for
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student

  
  
 
 

  
  

$988 '4/40
$1095 *4/so

Apple Macintosh LC 11

D,
:2. .-
E3

Creator

   

    
  

  

Apple Macintosh Hsi I

 

only at your authorized Apple campus reseller.

The Macintosh Student Aid Package. i.

For further information visit the Computer Center in Tucker Hall
ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

$1204 *3/40
$1413 *5/so

‘Keyboard and monitor not included

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. Powerbook is a uni it i ti, .rk 0MPPl5 C‘"“P“‘e’~ ["9 The Random "0155 E“Q’C'°P€di3 l5 3 Wdcmark 0f R3"d°"‘ H°”5Cv ‘"9 America" HCTWEC ElCm‘°"lC Dl“l0"3TY. El€CIl’0niC THCSBUNS. and
CorrecText° developed by Houghton Miﬁlin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's ll: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by language S)’SlL’nl.», Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. Resumewnter is a trademark of Bwtware Software Company, lnc. All product names are the trademark
of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 conﬁguration only. All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

 

     
  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1992

      
  

FEATURES

 

 
 

I
New ’9S’a“’a”tS ’" Lex Colonnade Crossword
I I I
Satisf those late-in ill lI|UlICl|leS
ACROSS 4
1 Short distance 7
_ . 5 Sire
patio area. But many may prefer to windsurfing board mounted on the ceil- “We’re working in unison with the :3 él||ic}|<:ne
By JENNIFER LATHAM gaze at a South Pacific island mural on ing. fraternities to make this a fun place,” 15 E2512; bigwig
Phi Staff Writer a wall inside the shop, rather than see Adding a special touch are the giant Paul said. . is Appear
Lexington outside the window. standup Budweiser , bottles sporting He and the social chairmen of sev- 17 gmilnoustly
Conner opened Hometown Yogurt football helmets. which set the scene eral W&L fraternities have discussed 18 ,,g'nY(;’c"‘l’d‘;‘:1
Eor upperclassmen wondering what in June. _ . ’ « » i .- - renting out the pond‘: Sta,
could possibly be new in sleepy Lex- “I’m a local Rockbridge resident,” restaurant F0?  £03! With
ington,andfor freshmen sufferingfrom she said. “When I moved back from dances. 8 23 cagfﬁne or
the culture shock of “Lex Vegas,” re- Tennessee,  took all my savings and h a 11 I1 I C (3 Norma
lief is at ham; invested it (in Hometown Yogurt).” house. and 26 Certain lang.
With the addition of new restau- _At the other end of Nelson Street, 0_th6r f\mC- E; ;;r't"g;‘5; Serial
r and hangouts this year, Lexing- adjacent to Randolph Street at tl0nS- _ _ 31 30,9
ton, more than ever, is increasingly Schewel’s Warehouse, The Bone at- Inaddition 35 couch _
resembling a typical college town. tracts a W&L crowd with its bar and 1010031 bands. 35 :lF>a*:f;‘|_:" 5
Hometown Yogurt, located at 541 grill. The Bone 3., __ nutshell
Nelson St. across from Pizza Hut, ca- Open Wednesday through Sunday 1°°k5 f°"“’?’d (briefly)
ters to those who have cravings for from 11 p.m. to I230 a.m., The Bone to scheduling 38 Masstgréag ©lA9"9%u1g'l;:sl.lg9e;tI;:3;Ed Services. Inc.
something cold, geatures “value§i(t)=.(r)i(tie_d American 1\tI"are1 reggae. _pf0- 43 2’ dz France
The store scoops up business from ormpastastos ."co-owner ea g r e S S 1_V 6 44 F m
y  Amid Sm a c o u s ti c, 45 Graordner of Last Week's Answers
I “The mu’ 2. rock’ and 46 gwydeﬂenes 8 Poetic word I I _ U  -

Si“ is 8°°d5’ x 2  3% eve" °°““"y' 48 Kiatchen 9 Attempt

5°Ph°m°re  3‘   "-’ We5te”}b3f“_35 appliance 10 Catch phrase

April Powell Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi from Virginia 51 Upright: atgbr. 1; lttﬂrs. Chaplin

said’ "fer" Football and ribs are two attractions at The Bone. B°‘i°h' .    er 13 Aigiiiiin gull

ring to the _ _ _ W e r e 54 Own up 19 Starve

J i m in y for Monday night football. looking at allowingan under 21 crowd 57 got out of bed” 21 Famous lion

Buffett and Arnold and Bowen, both from Vir- to almost all events, as traffic allows,” 59 52:3’ W'”d°‘” gt: ﬁ;‘:;:‘::’1‘é°'

R . E . M . giniaBeach,openedthe grill on July 16 Arnold said. _ . _ 52 Mama, picmre young man

songs fre- of this year. Unless posted information speci- 55 Qffend 25 Fr. tower

q u e n t l y “I liked the building; it’s a good fies otherwise, the minimum age for 67 l;5:a°sg<I3srne 27 (-6-ncggéigagtgack

played‘ ad““"3."°° to 68 Tiny bit ment)

It mak€S eV5m5 15 18- 69 Grows older 28 Secular

sense that “I’dliketo 70 Necessities d  raltrtiotic gp.

with a name provldeanzll, 71 Vaiuabe woo 33 19°?“ sérygr.

like “The temative to DOWN Sam 47 Displaces 57 "l cannot

 ~ v _ Bone,” ribs students),’’ a sounding main 3; Iﬁgtﬁthoopsters  Criec(l>fl<>Lt‘i)d‘lé°n__ 58 it-zellag"
. . ' ’ l "—‘
Ph°‘° W 'V‘a"°'Y M°Y°'5- "'9 ”’”9"“”' ”’" ‘eﬁd ‘t’l:’;‘;‘§' Palilngga of 3 ciiifi follower? 39 Worn out so Wapiti go gelatives
- . ' 1 d "I
New yogurt shop offers flavors to please the palate. an. be_an of ga,_shwncbd_ gglyggggg gains 1?  d ::  23  
11Q.m.to l1p.m.daily, serving shakes, gourmandise here. mg» 9 53‘ 2 5 "59 °°""“a" 9'3 ° 65 Ch “ '
ﬂoats, yogurt and ice cream, Also on the menu are soups, salads, ppppp _ A students can 7 Chap 42 1°° V'5- 55 ”°'5° ‘me’
“We're glad to have W&L custom- sandwiches, and emre6S- 89 b3T'h°P'
ers,” manager Debra Conner said. Appetizers, such as the cheddar crab P108-
Three Colombo yogurt flavors, in and shrimp dip and chicken fingers, are lfyoixr ap-
addition to the old standbys, chocolate also pplpulair. Pm] k d X;:::)tti:;:esetIi1llsh2;_s
and vanilla, are “on tap” every day at . “ en want a. i y stea sari - _ _ U - _ _
Hunetown Yogurt. _ wich, I want something greasy and bad L f the i edntt 112; Attentl O n  W  R IS B ackl
A popular specialty, the Collider, for me, and the oiie I had lived up to my Phom by Mauory Meyers me Ringwm PM w efttedl 0
mixes yogurt and a fruit, candy or nut expectatiopis, sophomore Holli U I C ’ _” b _ ti L _ t o_ut 1orfLel2t1]r(-: ,
V topping, Harrison sai . it e aesar S wl soon e coming 0 exing on. f1Va 0 1 , . . .
taltts thicker than a normal shake, Insid? 'I'heAB;)on<1: you find a new I . "B ‘d “W 7 f d P. C ae s a r s    nhlnﬁj Se_E|::$1|OnS
and most people like the Butterfinger comer o Lex ge es. _ ' OCEIUOII,‘ owen sa_i . . e ve dun izza. _ . as in ton an ee W] e e on Urs-
or Heath Bar flavors,” Conner said. “I wanted to bring a little bit of the a good niche to fill in Lexington. Set to open within the ne‘xt.few U ,  , da and da Se t
Tm previous dayis ﬂavors are Sold by beach to the mounta‘ns’11 said Paul The Bone offers live entertainment months on Route 60 East, the pizza, n|'\/erslty S CampUS y y, p .
the pint, as well. Bowen, anoillier col-owner. d h olpl wet§kerFi‘d.s(i featurtilng The Convert— pizza place featudrecs deal; for tgie bud- radlo Station’ will be__ 1 7 and '1 8’ at 
‘ H t 1 es is ri a m t. et—conscious an raz rea . . .
Customers may eat outside on the H H106 t 6 P8 m "665 an 5 Y 8 8 Y gm broadcastmg for 
D on it rn i S S G eo rg e   Sportswear company that sells merchandise to fraternities and sororities the  term on Sa‘[- For more Informa-
Ch I t h M  d 51- is looking fpr a dynamic andlﬁesponsibgecpeigson to llac zftpart-time ‘ll urday’  19 at 7 tion’ can the 
n S 0 er a ews an om representative or your campus. s a mem . 0 our sa es. orce, you wi - _
D p _ _ gain valuble experience for future sales positions. Full training and sales a- m - oﬁlce at  
Hespos m next weeks Ph| supplies are provided, along with bonus incentives. Call (800) 336-4486.

 

 
     

    

 

. l The W&L Publications Board is accepting
letters of interest for the position of:
* Executive Editor of The
Ring—tum Phi
W .  Letters may be submitted to Carol Calkins’
  Office in the University Center by Friday,
Sept. 18. Interviews will be held Tuesday,
Sept. 22 at 7:30 p.m. in the University
. Center, room 206.

 

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS

 

, ° LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. QA[ﬁin_<-igemtiga Em.

Can't afford to save for retirement? Even ifyou're not counting the years to   St

The truth is. you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF

Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve——    !
can last 20 to goyears or more. You'll want with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans. a diverse portfolio ofinvest-
do now. And that takes planning. merit choices, and a record ofpersonal  -Red  

, By starting to save now, you can take service thatspans 7_3years. ‘ _Chamois  _Ray.Bans
ad vantage of tax-deferral and give your Over a million people in education and _Dil_ty Bucs &  Bucs    Dog Collars’
money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CRILF at the top of
Consider this: set aside just $100 each their list for retirement planning. Why not VISOTS & 

month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $ig2,539* by the time
you reach age (35. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $227 each month
to reach the same goal.

join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on

your side.

.5",

Start plannirg your ﬁcturz. Call our Enrollment Hotline I 800 842-2888.

 

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

463-5383
VISA, MasterCard, Student Charge

© I992 72a:-bu; %iarancr am} Annuily A.r.rotia’i'on/Cnllzge Rdlrtnunt Etﬂiliu Fun).

\ /

X 7

. ‘Alan/nin_9 an intern! rate of 7.5% cr:9I)z9 to T [AA Rdirurizn! A/inudia. T51) rat: £4 114:3 wk/y to «bow (be powa M3 972:.‘ a/amzpoun3ing. Lower or hgber raru «mull?
prn3u4e very agﬂereni‘ raulu. CREF czrtficata art 914!/'£$u!z3 15y TIAA- CREF /n3ivI3ua/ aria Inafilulional Servuza.

 

I

PAGE 6 The Ring-tum Phl, September 17, 199

Harrlsfeeter C;I}{{0u~~~ d , 9 ’
MEANS LOW PRICES! c‘§1m‘£‘$L§§§y?‘“‘“‘“‘

   

  
    
  
 
    

REDUCEDPRICE  J  L  p M  ,
LEAN CUISINE .     Sell tickets ?
GLAZED “Hm”     *  Pick out good music?

Be creative?

Lift a heavy box?

Shop? '

Handle a computer well?
If you can do AT LEAST one’
of the above and attend 2

8.5 OZ.

PERDUE BNELESS FT

CHICKEN
BREAsT.......LB.

   
 
    
    

   
 

meetings a month, ‘
" IIRESHLY MADE PEPSI OR

CUCUMBER SALAD DIEI' PEPSI the . I
DE1'I’}iI3II'I<EERY 9 9 S ' I
tudent ;
 A         ctivities 5
I
HARRIS TEETER .. LOW PRICES I
STUDENT'S ' BUY ONE GET ONE FREE - I
¥¥>‘a"¢}’1'J.'iII$’I‘.{.{.‘s’I‘I'E¥I.'; r—EuEEEE=E."»7<E.'* Gard I
couRTEsY cm. I cALg=:TRg'Ié ggggoré I .
I . | 0 ' 2, I 
IIarr1s1‘eeIer I      ’ II

 I S     
' _Rc°Il1/‘3Il.I‘s)'lrATE 11111 . | E = ,  
1111111 I I
IT ALLOWS YOU TO I
CASH PERSONAL   1
CHECKS AT OVER I34 I Buy ONE 5g cg-_ I ‘ I
HARRIS TEETER . Hr IBUPROI-‘EN TABS oR I 5
LOCATIONS IN I CAPS an ONE FREE I sf.
  I  __;::___ L I v 0 . VI
CAROLINA, NORTH I§):ﬂEE§E:dTg%‘eA§:Fﬁi|yIbL,‘-MT-lzrffw‘__  I A
CAROLINA’ VIRGINIA  I . 
AND TENNESSEE .     1: I Interviews: Sept. 21 st— 24th 
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00 | 3&3; |i . 0 ~[
couPoN AND sAvE. L ______ _ _ _ _ _] I
I

VALUABLE I .00 COUPON - - ,
T M 0,... O, ,,,, Applications. due Sunday
I I   I I BELOWAND GET ONE 13 - I
I 0 I I oz. 36x or KEI.I.OGG'$ Sépt  I
I AN)! $3_ao OR MORE I I CORN I-'I._AKE$ FREE!

I puRcHA55 IN ouk ;.o'$'r‘1’3'o ,1" z‘.$8'.§I'If»‘.1‘.1‘s‘i.'I‘.§’.f'oz.
I PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I """"‘°""'""’"

ﬂ
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
I LIMIT E COUPO PE AMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER OD SEP . 6 T U SEPT. 22, I992

    

  
 
 

Sign up for interviews & pick
I PRoDucE I

I  I     ~;:"=%‘«”<>%‘=’-II; up applications outside of
I- L "“”°“°J I-E-----G4 Carol Calkins’ office in the °

./.(._——:-——‘-}..—‘.'.'—-—.,,'.q-_.’ I,-¢———. "
I

 i . .
Prices Effective Through September 22, I992 UI11V€1‘S1ty C€I1t€I‘.

Prices In This Hectiv edne Se e ber I6TIIrou Tues ,September 22 I992. In .7 XINGTQN
RigI'II 'miI onIiIies. None Sold T c1Iers. We Giocily Accept Fe rood Stamps.

OnIy.W serve

 

   

‘o.

The Ring-tum Phl, September 17, 1992

 

House For Rent

i\aPPosto9-90'

Welcome Back.’

23 N. Main St., Lexington
Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5:30

1 ‘/2 miles out Rt. 60 East
4 Bedrooms. Available Immediately
463-5383

 

 

COPYRIGHT 1992 - THE KROCER CO.

- No cash?
_ No checks?  
1 No problem!

t C

 

NOW VOU can U58 VOUF MOSC Debit Card, Visa,
. “ Mastercard Oi‘ Discover Card CO charge
through the line at Kroger.
|t'S easy. |t'S fast. lt'S convenient.

' Ill101'hEl' FITS!’ I"I'0Iﬂ.'

 

LOW PHCES. And MOVE.

 

 

Women’s soccer

earns split with
ODAC rivals

By J US’l'lN MCNAULL
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team split their first two Old
dominion Athletic Conference games
this week , putting to rest head coach
J anineHathom’sconcems
about her six new starters.

The Generals opened
the 1992 season with a
tough 1-0 loss at Virginia
Wesleyan. The loss

  

day.

Junior tri-captain Angie
Carrington’s two goals and an assist
spearheaded abalanced attack in which
five players scored. The Generals ﬁve
assists are nearly one-third of last
season’s total.

Junior Leigh
Strickler had a goal and
an assist, as did fresh-
men Jenni Robinson
and Anne Spruill. Last
year’s all-ODAC
goalie Kate Stimeling

 

dropped theGenerals toO- marked her second
5 lifetime against Va. straight start at center-
Wesleyan. halfback with a goal.
The Generals missed , The strong play of
numerous opportunities, Moseley Rowe allowed Hathom

but were held in the game
by freshman MimsRowe, who recorded
six saves in her collegiate debut.
Hathom hopes the loss teaches the girls
to take advantage of them.

“We had our chances and learned
the hard way,” said Hathom.

Perhaps the hardest aspect of the
game was the Generals lack of experi-
ence playing on a full ﬁeld.

After graduating seven players last
year, and with several underclassmen
not returning to the team, the Generals
small squad has been unable to run a
full scrimmage during practice. How-
ever, Hathom is not concerned.

“Lots of strong programs have [only]
18-20 players. For the girls it’s frus-
trating because of their [lack of] confi-
dence, but it’s just a mental thing. The
adjustment was a concern, but that's
been dismissed.”

Tri-captain Susan Moseley, the lone
senior, thinks the small squad has a
positive inﬂuence on the team’s chem-
istry.

“It has made us closer and worked
out really well,” said Moseley.

The Generals backed up Hathom’s
confidence by venturing to Lynchburg
and trouncin g an outclassed Randolph-
Macon Women’s College 6-1 on Tues-

to move Stimeling out
of the goal to showcase her talents in
the field. Hathom says there will be
little drop off from last year’s keeper
play.

“[Rowc] has great experience and
her skills are coming along,” said
Hathom. “She can fill Kate’s shoes.”

Rowe's talents will beput to the test
as Hollins and Denison come to Lib-
erty Field this weekend. Hathom ex-
pects a solid win over Hollins to “rev us
up for Denison.”

The Generalshave given up 10 goals
in their two losses to Denison, but will
look to capitalize on what Hathom
called “an off year” for the team from
Ohio. It should be an interesting game
considering Hathom used to coach field
hockey and lacrosse at Denison.

This weekend should be a litmus
test for the Generals before next
Thursday’s contest with last year’s
ODAC toumament winner Randolph-
Macon.

Despite the upcoming showdown,
Moseley says the Hollins game carries
extra weight because of the rivalry
between the girls.

“It’s always a fun game,” said
Moseley, “but it’s also very competi-
tive.”

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team’s 1992 season opened
Saturday at Christopher Newport
College. The Generals participated
in a three team round robin touma-
ment with CNC and St. Mary’s.

The Generals opened the com-
petition with a closely contested
three—game sweep of the host team.
W&L survived 15-13, 16-14, 15-6.
It marked the first victory for in-
terim head coach Kristi Yarter.

Yarter graduated from the Uni-
versity of Arizona as one of their
all-time greats.W&L hired Yarter
on the suggestion of the Univeristy
of Virginia volleyball coach. Yarter
is taking over for Susan Dittman,
who is taking a one-year leave of
absence.

The Generals regrouped and
gathered their breaths for a match
against St. Mary’s of Maryland only
a few hours after the opener. Ifthey
were fatigued, they didn't show it.
The girls played a solid match, but
still wound up on the short end of a
thrilling contest. St. Mary’s pre-
vailed15-10,11-15,15-11,11-15,
15-13.

Although the team was happy
with the 1-1 start, the lack of a true
blocker manifested itself in a low
blocks per game ratio. Freshman
Chrissy Hart led the team with 0.71
blocks per game.

However, not all the numbers
were bad. Sophomore Jennifer
Garrigus compiled an unbelievable
27 digs in the two games. Freshman
Cheryl Taurassi had 17, classmate
Chrissie Hart ﬁnished with 16 and
senior co-captain Leslie Hess
chipped in with 15.

Hart led the Generals’ offense
with 19 kills, including 12 in the St.
Mary’s match. Hess and her sister

Yarter successful
in volleyball debut

Catherine added much-needed sup-
port with 16 kills apiece.

With virtually the entire season
remaining, Coach Yarter is quick to
point out that the success of the
team will lie in its unity.

“I think this team is whole. They
aren't full of little cliques. They’re
complete,” said Yarter. ‘‘It will take
all thirteen to win matches, not just
the six on the ﬂoor.”

In addition to working on the
team’s blocking and overall court
presence, Yarter wants to see an
improvement in the team’s com-
munication.

“Some examples of communi-
cation would be: in hitter coverage,
the defense calling out the shots
that are open,” commented Yarter,
“or callig out where the server is, or
where their hitters are. Helping each
other out. Then they know who
their watching for, and they can
react better.”

W&L will move on to play in the
2nd Annual Washington and Lee
Invitational at 5 p.m. on Friday, and
again at9 a.m. on Saturday. Sched-
uled to play in the tournament are:
Carnegie-Mellon, Goucher,
Marysville, Washington and
Jefferson and Sewanee.

The toumament will be the final
test before the Generals enter league
play against Guilford in the Warner
Center on Wednesday, Sept. 23.

 

C] From CLASSIC, page 8

em, as two freshmen played a key role
in the Generals late goal in the second
overtime.

After not capitalizing on several
chances in the second overtime, Cober
drew a foul, which allowed a penalty
shotfor the Generals. McKenna, ahigh
school teammate of Cober’s, stepped
up and put a rocket past the Richmond
goalie to put W&L ahead.

Remillard showed extreme confi-
dence in the freshman, putting him in
such a pressure-filled situation.

“It was a great deal of pressure for a
freshman, but he obviouslyresponded.”

However, the game wasn’t over
yet.It took two incredible point-blank
saves in the final five seconds by senior

all-American goalie P.J . Waikus to pre-
serve the victory. Waikus ended the
game with acareer-high 21 saves,whi1e
Golub led the W&L offensive output
with ﬁve goals and three assists. Golub
finished the three—game weekend with
12 goals.

The team was pleased with the re-
sults, despite a let-down in the second
half of the Richmond game. They hope
to continue the fast start this weekend.

The Generals travel up to New Jer-
sey to play in an Eastern Meet at
Princeton University. The test that
awakes them is stem to say the least.
Their opponents include number one
Eastern ranked Slippery Rock, number
two Princeton. and number three the
University of Massachusetts.

 

  

Last Week:

Footbal1- E&H 41, W&L 13 (0-1)
Water Polo-W&L 11,Rich.U.10 (3-0)
M Soc-F&M 3,W&L 1 (1-1)

W Soc-W&L 6,R—MWC 1 (1-1)
Volleyball-St. Mary’s 3,W&L 2 (1-1)
Golf-“Blue” 11th,“White” 13th

PAGE 8

  S

(J11: iiiing -tum iﬂhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

This Week:

Water Polo- EWPA#1 at Princeton

M Soc-at JHU 9/ 19;Guilford 9/23 4pm
W Soc-Hollins 9/18 4pm;Denison 9/19
Cross Country-MWC (M&W) 9/ 19 1 lam
Volleyball-W&L lnvit. 9/ 18 5pm; 19 9am

SEPTEMBER 17, 1992 I

Soccereanﬁ
three-peat at

F&M tourney

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Andnow for the mostdynarnic duoof 1992...(drurn
roll, p1ease)...Dan & Dave? Not!

Bill and Al? We’ll see in November.

Washington and Lee men’s soccer? Well, it's early
yet and all the reviews are not in. However, their two-
year stint as champions of the Franklin & Marshall
Tournament came to an end this past weekend.

F&M ended the Generals stranglehold on the title
with a 3-1 victory in the finals. These two teams
collided Sunday as the Generals looked to claim the
title for the third straight year.
The host team had other plans
and were much better prepared
for this showdown thantheywcre
last year. “They [Franklin &
Marshall] were much more fit,”
said head coach Rolf Piranian.
“Our conditioning is not where
it should be.”

The Generals took an early
1-0 lead in the finals on an
unassisted goal by senior Reid _
Murphy. Franklin & Marshall responded with two
goals before halftime for a 2-1 lead after 45 minutes
of play. F&M added one more to finish the scoring,
and they took back their own tournament’s title, 3-1.
According to Murphy, one of the Generals’ tri—cap-
tains, the team has been lacking the intensity it will
need to compete.

“The players all agree that we weren't as intense as
we need to be,” said Murphy.

Murphy also said that the Generals were excited
about their performance in the first game of the
tournament, a 4-0 shutout of Manhattanville on Satur-
day. Four different Generals scored in that game as
senior goalkeeper Mike Steinbrook kept
Manhattanville off the scoreboard.

“We really knocked the ball around well on Satur-
day,” said Piranian.

Murphy opened the scoring as fellow senior Mike
Mitchem recorded his 17th career assist, second all-
time for W&L soccer. Freshman Jesse Taylor and
junior John Robinson each contributed a goal to the
Generals‘ cause. Robinson‘s classmate Jud Allen
capped off the rout with a goal on a penalty kick.

The Generals tempered their excitement, how-
ever, because they knew they had a game Sunday
versus a team that was ready for them. .

‘‘It was hard to prepare with the amount of time we
had to get ready,” said assistant coach John Burgess,
a 1992 graduate of Franklin & Marshall.

Piranian has already listed the things that he plans
to work on before the Generals’ next contest, a game
against Johns Hopkins in Baltimore this Saturday.

“We have to work on our off-ball running; where
to be when you don’t have the ball,” said Piranian.
“We did that well Saturday, but not Sunday.”

Piranian also agrees that the team’s intensity level
must be higher if they are going to do well, especially
with the opening of the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference season so close.

 

Mitchem

“Our intensity must increase,” he said. “[The
coaches] can't do anything about that, but I hope the
players do."

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back — Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

 

Generals fall to Wasps in opener '

New run-and-gun goes ‘pop—pop’ in first half; improved play highlights second half

By SEAN O’RoURKr~:
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee football team played the best
team in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference last Satur-
day, and despite the score, played well.

“First of all, we played apretty darn good football team,’
said head coach Gary Fallon. “We just couldn’t take advan-
tage of their mistakes.” .

The Generals opened their 1992 season the way they
have the past seven, by taking on the Emory & Henry
Wasps. The Generals hosted the Wasps at Wilson Field
Saturday, but could not break a ten-year losing streak. The
Generals fell 41-13.

This game was a rout for the first 30 minutes of play.
E&H jumped all over the Generals, moving the ball at will.
Junior quarterback Eric Montgomery had a career first half.
He finished the half 10-for-13 for 192 yards and two
touchdowns. Both touchdowns went to their wide receiver
standout Cary Perkins. Perkins caught five balls for 138
yards in the first two quarters. At the half it was 32-0.

“We were going up against an experienced and speedy‘

group,” said senior defensive tackle Phil Spears. “Still, we
were too inconsistent. We had way too many breakdowns.”

W&L, on the other hand, had a very young team on the
field and had a tough first 30 minutes. The Generals were
held to 142 yards of total offense. Sophomore quarterback
Geren Steiner finished the half 9-for-22 for 104 yards and
three interceptions.

“We drove the ball well in the first half,” said Steiner.
“But I wasn’t pleased with my timing on some of the plays.”

One costly mistirned play occurred in the second quarter.
The Generals put together a well-sustained drive and were
poised to score on the Wasps’ 12 yard line. However,
Steiner’s timing pass to William Propst was picked off in the
end zone by an E&H safety, who returned the ball to the
Generals’ 48. E&H went on to score another touchdown
before the end of the half.

Even though Steiner made some mistakes, he showed
maturity and a cool head under pressure. He was forced from
the pocket a number of times and was able to scramble out
of trouble. He also displayed good decision-making by

‘ throwing the ball away to avoid a sack.

Fallon was displeased with offense in the first half
as well. He said the run-and-gun misfired.

“Our run-and-gun was pop-pop. We really didn’t get off.
We need to read defenses better and get the ball to the open
receiver.”

That is exactly what the Generals did in the second half.
The final 30 minutes were a total opposite of the first. W&L
movedthe ball well, but cut down on the mistakes that cost

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-rum Phi

Sophomore running back Michael MacLane makes a mad dash through the E&H secondary. MacLane
had the best day of his W&L career, finishing with 220 all-purpose yards.

them points in the first half.

“In the second half we gave them a different look,” said
Steiner. “We had a shifting offense which freed up the
outside receivers.”

Spears said on the defensive side of the ball, W&L’s
adjustments at halftime helped contain the outside running

' game.

Fallon said he was pleased with the tearn’s performance
in the second half.

“With the leadership of the upperclassmen and what the
coaches said, everyone was able to get together, and I think
we did get better as we played.”

The highlights for the Generals came in the fourth
quarter. First, the Generals scored their first points of the
season with an impressive 83-yard drive. Senior Mark
Goglia ended the drive with a 13-yard touchdown run. It was
the first score the Wasps had allowed the Generals in two
years.

The biggest play for W&L came from the defensive side
of the ball. The Wasps were inside the W&L 20, and they
tried to run the ball to the right side. The E&H running back
was nailed at the line of scrimmage and the ball popped
loose. Freshman comerback Graig Fantuzzi scooped the
ball up at the 15 and out—raced three E&H pursuers 85 yards
for a touchdown.

There were two down notes during the game, one ﬁn
each team. W&L’s starting center, junior Derek Boggs
cracked the tibia bone in his lower right leg. He’s expected
to be out from 6-8 weeks.

For E&H, Montgomery, who had a huge first half, '

suffered a fractured dislocation of his left ankle and a
fractured tibia during the third quarter. Montgomery was
taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital where doctors set we
breaks. He had the surgeryperformed Sunday at Abingdon’s
Johnson Memorial Hospital.

The Generals do not play this Saturday because of the
bye week, but they return to action Sept. 26 at Centre. Fallon
feels these two weeks are key to continuing the progress he
saw in the second half.

“I'm thankful for these two weeks. We had some peop‘e _

in new positions who didn’t have enough reps. We’re not
going to make any wholesale changes, but when you’re
young you hesitate and your feet freeze. These two weeks
will helps us teach these kids what they did right and what
they did wrong.”

Spears echoes Fallon’s point about youth.

“E&H was simply better than us on Saturday,” s ‘d
Spears. “We’re a young team, but we continued to impro e
throughout the whole game. All the way around, we’re
much better.”

Water polo survives stern test in Classic

By CHRIS SANTORA
Phi Contributin g Writer

As the Washington and Lee water polo team entered its
1992 campaign last weekend, many felt that the tearn’s
depth would be one of their strong points.

After this weekend’s results, head coach Page Remillard
beleives his optimism was definitely not unfounded.

The Generals captured the W & L Fall Classic in classic
style. W&L dispatched Hampden—Sydney, 18-6, Johns
Hopkins, 12-11, and then in the finals, Richmond, 11-10 in
double overtime.

The Generals got things rolling on Saturday with an easy
romp over Harnpden-Sydney. The scoring was evenly dis-
persed. Junior Greg Golub paced the Generals with three

goals and two assists, while senior Chris Hagge racked up
two goals and three assists. Sophomore Ruben Monger
recorded two goals and an assist. A pleasant
surprise was the play of three promising freshmen. The trio
of Rich Cober, Pat McKenna and Dane Merkle each scored
two goals and added one assist. their strong play demon-
strated that W&L can look forward to a strong season.

The Generals ran into a much stiffer test in their second
match of the day against a solid Johns Hopkins squad. W&L
trailed Hopkins 7-4 at the break, but rallied to tie the score
at 10. The Generals added two more goals late in the second
half to secure a 12-11 victory, and a trip to Sunday's final.

Golub led the Generals with four goals, bringing his two-
game total to seven; Hagge upped his goal count to five with
three in Saturday evening's competition.

463-7969

ad space th

will see

For just $30

You can rent an

tons of people **

at

Do
Help!
Sell ads for the Phi...

Call Benji Plummer at

463-8581

     
   

.\_ SERWC

I a¢e‘@.rcard'

Eé, INC-

60*“

 

  

  

Photo & Video Imaging
 

You Want VISA 8. MasterCard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards In the world...Vtsa® and MasterCard®
credit cards..."In your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISAS’ and MasterCard® the credit cards you
desenie and need Ior—— ID—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST ORES—TUITION—I-ZNTERTAI NM ENT-
EMERGENCY (‘ASH-—TICKETS—RES’I‘AURAN'IS—
H0_TELS—-MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS—AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING!

»““m

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

Get #a new imagei.|n A Flash
20x30 COLOR PHOTO POSTER -

$24.95 WITH COUPON

 

FROM YOUR 55MM COLOR NEGATIVE
POSTERS FROM SLIDES OR PRINTS ALSO AVAILABLE ’

 

14 E. Campbell Ave.
Roanoke, VA 24013

1-800-537-5227 ,

I

The last and perhaps the most anticipated match of the
tournament pitted the Generals against their arch rival, the
Richmond spiders. Going into the fourth quarter the Gener-
als held a tenuous 9-5 lead, and surprisingly controlled the
tempo against a dominant Richmond team that had routed ‘
Johns Hopkins.

In the fourth, Richmond rallied to knotthe game at 10-30
with one second left in regulation. The teams headed into
overtime with momentum headed in Richmonti’s favor.

One of the General’s problems last year was closing out
matches and tiring in the fourth period against powerful
opponents. This game proved that this year could be differ-

Ci See CLASSIC, pageﬂ 1

ii

22

E

Y
2--2)-2-DD--1-Z"-D1111

approved immediately.

‘:3

3&0 No credit

1%“ oz -
I msﬁgxafg? A No security deposit!
G?’ 5°.‘ Approwil absolutely guaranteed so scma, M,.,c..,.,.,

ADDRESS

PHONE __
SIGNATURE

NOTE Mastercnrd is a registered trademark d’ Mmteroud lntemational Inc.
Visa is I: registered tndermrtt otvtsa USA. Inc. and VISA International

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX l792lI.PLANTATION.FL 33318 :
I  iwantVISA®/MASTERCARDQ Credit :
Cards. Enclosed find 35 which is 100% refundable If not I
I

I

I

I

I

STATE _. ZIP 9

s.s.~ __.__ I

I

I

I
9

.'

100°/II GUARANTEED!

 

  

~ U112 Eirtg—tum lﬂlii

THE Di-in/ERSETY Llﬁmw g
v.'As;i«i=.r«* “mil 3, l..E.E UNi‘.fERSlf‘i
1 2-1 j‘_i'i':"‘.“~.i \2';\. £‘.~-l~',‘.‘/0

i. .

I st? 2 5 list;

 

New Troubadour Theater Opens
With A Flourish Tomorrow Night

FIRST Trivn.-:'s A CHARM

Freshman Runs To School Record
In First Cross Country Race 6

VOLUME 92, NO. 3
—C

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Freshmen line up Wednesday before receiving bids from a fraternity, as brothers cheer them on.

  
  
 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Tbmorrow, rushees will have the opportunity to tear, or join, a house.

IFC tries to tame Tear Night

New rules attempt to separate drinking from accepting bids

By KATIE YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

else.

I!

Friday’s Tear Night should prove less chaotic than in

yutrs past, or so the IFC hopes.

Last spring’s decision by the Interfratemity Council to
try to calm things down on Tear Night goes into effect
Friday. Where fraternities in the past have indulged in beer
slides, wrestling . and excessive drinking, this year they will
experiment with coats, ties and sit-down dinners.

The new regulations mandate that all bids be accepted

ween 5 and 8 p.m. No alcohol can be served then.

IFC Vice President Tom Washmon said last spring that
the regulations should separate the drinking from the tearing

Footbridge
can’t join

Pub Board  

By RICHARD WEAVER

’ Phi Contributing Writer

The Publications Board Tuesday
refused to recognize The Footbridge
magazine, denying it status as a univer-
sity publication.

.The fate of The Footbridge, which
was decided in a closed executive ses-
sion, hinged on whether or not the
magazine fulfilled its intended pur-
pose as a news magazine, acting Pub
Board President and Ring-tum Phi
Executive Editor Cathybopiccolo said.

. “It was the opinion of the Publica-
tions Board that The Footbridge exhib-
ited a political bias that we couldn't
endorse,” Lopiccolo said.

Jimmy Walsh, editor of The Foot-
bridge, disputed an editorial last week
in The Ring-tum Phi claiming his pub-
ligation had not accomplished its goal

becoming a viable news magazine.

“I’m disappointed (with the ruling)
because we felt that the magazine added
value to the university community in a
number of different ways,” Walsh said
after the decision was rendered. “They
‘sgid we had a liberal agenda, but they

uldn’t back it up.”

Walsh also said the magazine would
not have relied on the Pub Board for
printing costs.

Last fall, the Pub Board voted to
partially fund two issues of a news
magazine on a trial basis and then de-
dde whether to grant the magazine
membership on the board.

Walsh and Associate Editor Alex
Ruskell said they could choose to try to
overturn the ruling by going to the EC,
but they will make that decision later.

The Footbridge produced two edi-
Qons last year and is currently gearing
up for a mid- to late-October indepen-
dent edition.

In other business, the Pub Board
approved Rick Peltz as executive edi-
tor of The Ring-tum Phi. Peltz replaces
Thomas Eisenhauer, who resigned to
Work with the Bill Clinton presidential
campaign in Washington, D.C.

injuries.
Although some fraternity members

miss traditional Tear Night madness.

be less dangerous,” Tompson said.

process and will allow varsity athletes to tear with everyone

Washmon also said the new format should cut down on
i the number of tear-related ilfjuries. Last year, seven people rtiallyexpecred.
were treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital for Tear Night

rules will reduce the danger involved,

“I kind of liked it the old way, but I can see this might be
a change for the better,” fraternity president Paul Baker said.
Matt Tompson, a rush chairman, said it will be good to
have something to do other than drink, such as a band party.
“I’m sure it will still be pretty wild, but hopefully it will

 

By LEIGH Au.i:N
Phi News Editor

Construction of a multi-million
dollar science complex could begin
as early as winter term, but the cost
might cripple future campus build-

. ing projects.

Dean of the College John Elrod
said Parmly and Howe Halls will be
renovated and cormected to a new
building. The complex will house all
science departments, including com-
puter sciences and psychology which
are currently on the Colonnade.

Elrod said the improvements are
overdue.

“Those facilities are a disgrace,”
he said. “'I'hey’re 

Biology professor Cleveland
Hickman agrees.

“We’re very, very short of space.”
he said. “It’s almost impossible for
students to carry on researc .”

Hickman said the new center will
help solve those problerris.

In addition to more space, the
new science center will have modern
laboratory equipment and expanded
research potential.

Elrod said the university expects
the new complex to bring W&L’s sci-
ence departments up to par with those
at similar-size universities. But doing
that will be more expensive than ini-

According to a summary of W&L’s
current capital campaign, $8 million is
earmarked for the new science com-
plex. Elrod said it will probably cost
much more.

“It‘snotpossibletotellexactly what
a project like this will cost,” Elrod said.
“But [$8 million] is insufficient to do
what we need to do.”

Elrod said both Parmly and Howe
were victims of a “deferred mainte-

agree that the new
they say they will

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 24, 1992

Building plans roll on
with science complex

  

 

 

 

- _ .l!f $10, Leniest Center

 :4  ‘$8’, science center’

“El ‘$7.5’, student center
Cl $5, Fraternity‘ 7

 "_"Renaissance

' El $3.5, front campus
' ” renovations.

 

 

 if ‘air’ $2.9,_Law School addition
 .. El $2, athletic facilities

Construction  
 A e current capital campaign allots
’"$3‘8',"9_O0,000 toycionstruction
A _'p'roj‘ect's';' two’ of which " have been
fcompleted. Below are the projects, '
.;:»%1t‘ieir'allotments in millions. ’

campaign. The Lenfest
Center and the Powell
Papers addition to the Law
School have been com-
pleted and Fraternity Re-
naissance is near comple-
tion.

A new student center,
renovations to current
buildings, and improve-
ments to athletic facilities
are also scheduled before
the end of the decade.

Elrod would not say if
anyofthoseprojects might
be eliminated. However,
he did say that the future
of the proposed $7.5 mil-
lion student center would
not be decided until after
the university receives a
price for the science com-
plex.

“The student center is
not on the drawing board
at the moment,” Elrod
said. “The science center
has priority.”

Associate Dean of Stu-

nance” trend that routed maintenace
money away from those buildings and
to other projects. '

“You usually think of ‘deferred
maintenance’ as affecting a roof or a
ﬂoor,” Elrod said. ‘ ‘In this case it was
two whole buildings.”

Elrod said that unless the current
capital campaign raises a surplus of
money, or funding is obtained from an

alternate source such as a corporate I

sponsor, other building projects may
be cut.

“We may have to make some trade-
offs,” Elrod said.

The science center will be the fourth
in a series of seven major building
projects being paid for by the current

dents Leroy C. “Buddy"
Atkins agreed about the priorities but
said he thinks the proposed student
center would add a sense of commu-
nity to W&L that does not exist now
because so many students live off cam-
pus. .
“If it weren’tfor Rush,” Atkins said,
“freshman men and women would
never meet any upperclass students.”
Elrod said three architectural firms
will present models and price tags for
the science center to the university by
Nov. 15. He said he hopes construction
of the new building and renovations of
Parmly and Howe will take no more
than three and a half years. During that
time, students will have to “work
around” the construction.

Registering to vote just
takes pen, a few minutes

 

Cool Calc

Freshmen Cinnie Logan and Colin Looney take advantage of the cool fall
weather and do their calculus homework outside. The autumn temperatures are
expected to continue through the wee_kend, with highs in the mid-70s for
Sunday's Foxfield races.

hoto by Mallory Meyers The Ring-tum Phi

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

With a few minutes, a pen and a little political
conviction, you can easily register to vote in the
Nov. 3 national elections.

Lexington City Registrar Lucille Joyce said
students can register in
her office for the presi-

Their eligibility is subject to scrutiny by the
registrar , however.

Virginia residents may register in Lexington
and have their application forwarded to their
home town for processing there. Non-Virginians
who wish to participate in their state elections
need to obtain an absentee ballot through their
local registrar or board of elections, Joyce said.

The deadline for registra-
tion is Oct. 27.

dential election, regard-
less of their home state.
Anyone who fills out a
temporary registration
fonn will be able to cast

    

l

nvistﬁfiésm mayireamr 
V ‘lbhfﬂfdrllle presidential _e’|é'¢V-V

Last week, Joyce sat
outside the Co-op to hand
out registration forms and
entice students to vote. She
said she gave out quite a

 

a ballot for the presi-
dent and vice president,
Joyce said.

Students can find these forms at the City
Registrar's office at 300 E. Washington St., or
with their local political party leaders, according
to Joyce.

Students who want to vote in their state’s full
general election have a slightly more complicated
process to complete. Joyce said students who call
Lexington their home and who pay Lexington
taxes may register to vote in Lexington elections.

few presidential election
registration forms to out-
of—state students, but only a few forms to people
who wished to register in Lexington.

She said many students were not aware that
they could register to vote in the presidential
election only.

Sally Oberrnueller, ’94, said she has not regis-
tered to vote but intends to soon.

“It’s just something I haven’t gotten around to
doing yet,” Oberrnueller said. “But I definitely
have to.”

Dorm security beefed up one year after rape reports

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Contributing Writer

One year after four sexual assaults were reported at W&L
in a month, dormitory security is changing to prevent more
incidents.

Head Dorm Counselor Phil Spears said new alarms have
been installed that buzz loudly when a door to a girls’ hall
has been left open more than 45 seconds.

“Doors being propped open have been in the past a
security risk, an invitation to danger,” Spears said.

Another change is the addition of a security guard who
patrols both the freshman and upperclass dorms from
Wednesday to Sunday, 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. The presence of the
guard has eliminated the dorm counselor on-call program.

According to Elizabeth Currall, head resident assistant in
Gaines Hall, there was no apparent need for an on-call R.A.

Spears said having security ofﬁcers patrolling in the
dorms offers a more secure atmosphere, especially for
freshmen. He said the on-call program is urmecessary.

Senior Erika Lee disagrees.

“As a freshman you need to have a dorm counselor 24

hours a day for personal emergencies or medical emergen-
cies,” Lee said.

Security also has a new Suzuki Sidekick which students
may call to get rides when they feel uncomfortable walking
home, Director of Security Mike Young said. But he asked
that students not abuse the service.

Despite the changes, some women, especially in the
freshman dorms, have complaints.

“'I'here’s no way to check if someone is a welcome guest
at 3 a.m. or if someone doesn't belong there,” freshman
Karlene Jennings said. “We’ve had drunk people mnning
down our halls at 3 am.”

Freshman Colleen Thompson said she still worries about
the possibility of rape on campus.

“I’m worried about it because there is too much drinking,
and therefore, people aren’t in their right state of mind,"
Thompson said. “Anything can happen. I never go any-
where alone and I always make sure I lock my door.”

But Ashley Bell, ’96, said security at W&L is more
reasonable than at other schools.

“At a lot of schools I’ve been to you have to have security
cards to get into the building,” Bell said.

Phi writer Pauline Mita contributed to this story.

 

Photo by Amy French, The Ring-tum Phi

W&L security officer Thomas A. “Baner" Bane shows off his pride

and joy, Security's new Suzuki Sidekick.

 

  

PAGE 2

 

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

Budget blues

As the local birds pack their little bird luggage in preparation for
the trip south, and the ﬂowers drop their petals, one just knows it's
that time of year again: EC budget-hearing season.

Students from all over campus participate in the ritual opening of
EC budget-hearing season next week, in a four-day ceremony. Each
campus group comes before the Executive Committee and performs
its dance. It’s the EC’s job to distribute among these groups the
student activities dollars.

This year the EC will have more money to allot. This year’s
increase in the student activities fund will put about $30,000 more
in the coffers.

With all those organizations parading through the EC room for
their piece of the pie, things can get a little hairy. Perennial battles
ensue. Questions arise about how last year’s money was spent. The
issue of organizations’ political ideologies breaks out. EC members
debate procedure (it’s not written down anywhere how all this is
supposed to be done).

Essentially, it gets really hot and sweaty in there. So we ’ve
thrown together some ideas we hope EC members might keep in
mind throughout the tumult.

The EC policy of not endorsing organizations that exist primarily
to espouse a stated or demonstrated, culturally or politically partisan
ideology is wise. This guards against student dollars going to
support causes antithetical to many students’ beliefs, and it keeps
the student govemrrient above petty political battles among rival
groups.

The EC is also wise to consider how many students beneﬁt from
a petitioning group ’s activities. Though the EC has habitually asked
this question in the past, there have been some startling inequities.

The Soccer Club last year received $245, which seems reason-
able. But Club Rugby received $921, Women's Club Basketball
$1,020, and Club Ice Hockey $1,500. Those figures seem dispro-
portionate to the number of students who beneﬁt from club sports.

The Independent Union received $2,100 last year, and the new
Exhibitionist Drama Club received $500. Again, student participa-
tion in these organizations does not seem to warrant those kinds of
expenditures.

Moreover, there is an alarming trend in budget requests. Harking
back to the ﬁnancial games of 1989, the last time the EC determined
budget allocations primarily by taking a percentage of the requests,
organizations generally are asking for more money each year than
increased costs could begin to justify. The EC is therefore forced to
make bigger and bigger cuts each year, and there is constant
pressure to raise the student activities fee, which hardly need be
done as much as it has. W  ‘

One might think there is some intentional inﬂation -of budget
requests going on in this most trusting of communities. ’

In looking at the budget this year, we recommend the EC draw a
distinction between groups which serve solely their members and
groups which serve the university community. The former need not
be barred from allocations, but their requests should be scrutinized

with skeptical care. The latter-type group should receive the bulk of
the allocations.

Another perennial battle concerns the Student Bar Association.
In the past, SBA’s requests have exceeded the amount of dollars put
into the pot by law students. The EC is in the habit of cutting the SBA
request to an allotment that hovers aroimd the amount law students
contribute. But because of raised voices and veiled threats of law-
school secession from student government, the EC undergraduates
are always made to feel like they walked the edge of a cliffin cutting
SBA’s request at all. Don’t. Law students beneﬁt from almost all of
the services of the other organizations, including and especially the
Student Activities Board. The SBA allotment should be less than the
sum of 1aw—student dollars in the activities fund.

This year’s big players will probably be the SAB, SBA, Contact
and publications. As well it should be, as these groups strive to serve
large groups of students in the university community. But the EC
should be careful to look at all requests in terms of the number of
students served, and with a critical eye.

.3 ~;p‘ hi 

— CL, RP, LA, GP
Zillir ﬂing-trim iﬂltt
Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
ﬁind. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising content does not ieﬂect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, September '24, 199 2-

   
    

go9‘r6 
You Too '$oE!
f '§u<{ LOVE

      
      
 

fiw GIVE you
A are» 0:5
FEIDA)"

 
     

  

Clinton’s critics lie
about draft issue.

_ WASHINGTON —— Buried in the assault on Bill Clinton’s Selec-
tive Service record of the late ’60s hides the Big Lie of Vietnam: that
young men graduating from college in those years faced a choice
between induction and residence, between the jungles of Indochina and
the yellow badge of the “draft dodger.”

For Clinton and millions of others able to attend college, the clbice
was never so narrow. The system made sure of that.

Some of these options involved putting on a uniform. Dan Quayle
chose the Indiana National Guard. Bill Clinton agreed to join ROTC at
the University of Arkansas law school.

Neither course was overly frought with danger. Quayle stayed in
Indiana. Had Clinton pursued ROTC, he could have delayed his
military service four more years. As a law graduate, he could ‘have

delayed his military service four more years. As a law graduate, he
- could have

expected to
spend his
Army years
not leading
soldiers in
battle but de-
fending or
prosecuting them in court. '
Had young Bill Clinton taken this route, he would not be taking ﬂak
today for dodging front-line service in an unpopular war. He would be
reveling in applause for having done his duty.
Such is the hypocrisy that fogs our rear-view look at the countiy’s
least popular war. .
Clinton’s critics continue to divide his generation between those
who supported their country in time of peril and those who did not. In
fact, there were numerous ways to avoid both the horror of front-line
Viemarn service and the ignominy of the draft dodger.
Some of these options were in the military itself. Unlike World War
. 11, Vietnam was an inland war, fought in the ﬁelds and jungles, witlﬁhe
infantry and the Marines facing the worst of it. The decision to join the
National Guard, the Coast Guard, even the Navy meant taking on far
better odds of avoiding front-line combat. Safe billets could be found
even in the Army. A graduate school classmate of mine managed to get
himself a direct commission as a ﬁnance ofﬁcer. ‘
Draft-age Americans had other opportunities for a deferment: the

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

Fresh-meat myth shatters

MY VIEW

By Kris Lawrence, ’96

Capri Suns.

I was very impressed by the gentlemanly
behavior of the two guys. After we got past
talking about the naked women poster on

Freshman meat! To tell you the truth,
that’s exactly what I thought I would be
labeled as when I arrived at W&L this fall.
Every year my college friends would come
home from freshman term and tell me horror
stories about being scammed on and gave

me the ‘be careful’ lecture.

My ﬁrst night at W&L, I was determined
to not be fooled by the fraternity guys. ‘ N o,
I would be smarter than that,’ I told myself.
No beer, no ‘house tours’ that lead to the
bedroom, and Icertainly would avoid ‘can I
see your dorm room?’ But, I still thought in
the back of my mind that just maybe W&L

would be different.

While experimenting with the speaking
tradition, I met two fraternity guys. My
friends and I walked back to the house and I
wondered if I would feel pressured to drink
a beer. I was shocked to ﬁnd a fridge full of
cokes and milk. Now don’t get me wrong
there was a complete stock of beer but they
were more than willing to give out their

the wall, the conversation became almost
intellectual. Hours of conversation from
about everything from Spariky’s to my fa-
vorite grocery store turned to a discussion
about God. All the while, I thought to
myself, could this be true? Nobody was
trying to get me drunk and into bed.

All those stories told by experienced
freshman were completely opposite from
what I was experiencing right then and now.
Yes, maybe W&L was different. What other
schools have guys that want to talk divorce
instead of sex? While on the escorted walk,
one of the guys discovered my coffee maker
was not working and offered to ﬁx it. Now
all of you are probably thinking he was
planning to make his move then. Wrong!

He fixed it, set my timer, and left.

thanks.

After years of ‘freshman meat’ stories,
I discovered I wasn't meat, but just a fresh-
man! The guys are great! You guys know
who you are, congratulations! You changed
my pessirriistic view on dirty frat houses——

Peace Corps, VISTA, high school teaching, uniformed commissiog in
the National Health Service.

What did all these options, uniformed and civilian, share in com-
mon? All required that the applicant possess the ability and the
resources necessary for a college education. If you had the money, the
talent and the parents to find your way to higher education, you had the
key to avoiding the draft. Deferrnents after college were granted to
those who had qualiﬁed for deferrnents by going to college in the fgst
place. -

Why were the well-off protected this way?

Interesting question. Why was my own graduating class, that of
1967, given a one-year “moratorium” to attend graduate school?
Probably because President Lyndon wanted to cut the steam from the
growing anti-war movement one more year.

Why did my Peace Corps contingent receive, along with our letter
of acceptance, an unsolicited offer of draft counseling? Why did Hie

relinquish our deferrnents a_month early so as to technically qualify us
for the 1970 draft call —— which had already been completed. The effect
was to exempt us from the draft altogether, since we would not then be
eligible for a Selective Service call in 1971 or later.

Probably for the same reason the Selective Service system spent so
much of its other energies back then preserving attractive, non-ﬁghtiﬂg
options for America’s better-off young men: to reduce anti-war oppo-
sition among those with the money, the clout and the voice to effec-
tively protest the war.

This much, at least, needs to be remembered as voters consider the
relevance of the Democratic nominee’s presidential qualiﬁcations:
Bill Clinton’s ultimate refusal to accept one of those attractive, non-
ﬁghting options to Vietnam or resistance is less a discredit to him mm
it is to the system that offered them.

© 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Echoes and ricochets could direct election,

WASHINGTON —— If Rich
Williamson seems somewhat
flumrnoxed, forgive him. His race for a
Senate seat from Illinois was supposed
to be against the incumbent, Democrat
Alan Dixon, an ideologically shape-
less career politician vulnerable to
today's anti-iricumbent fever. Too vul-

cent prefer voting for the man and 40
percent prefer voting for the woman.
Furthermore, as Williamson says, vot-
ing for a “non-threatening African
American makes many people feel
good.”

So what does a 43-year-old white
guy (and businessman and former

me,-able, it mmed om, Reagan White House aide) have to do?

In a He has to
three-per- {n}1a_ke hf" (3;

- mversity o

i°’§"M‘ ail’, GEORGE WILL Chicago law
D‘ t _ , graduate and
blﬁoz ﬁ°_ Washington Post Writers Group former state
whackedby legislator)
the cook seemtlireaten-

County Recorder of Deeds —— a politi-
cal consultant’s dream candidate for
1992 — a black woman incumbent-
slayer. Since then Carol Moseley Braun
has been surﬁng on a wave of friendly
(sometimes swooning) media attention.

Williamson, noting that her name is
now better known than the govemor’s,
knows he must change the contest
from a choice between ‘ ‘a 43-year-old
white guy and a 44-year-old black
woman with a nice smile.”

Sitting in her county building of-
fice, smiling serenely, she seems to
know what he says he knows: Other
things being equal, in a contest today
between a man and a woman, 50 per-
cent of voters are indifferent, 10 per-

mg. Williarnson’s attacks include some
GOP golden oldies. He says she has
voted 11 times to raise taxes and to
raise welfare and her pay, and voted
against the death penalty and against
reciting the Pledge of Allegiance in
schools, and was a 1988 Jesse Jackson
delegate.

But to Williarnson’s charge that she
is a “far-out left-wing liberal” from
“the Chicago machine,” she replies,
smiling, that the charge is “an oxymo-
ron” because the machine is inhospi-
table to far-out left-wing liberals.

Actually, neither candidate'spoliti-
cal plows any new intellectual ground.
If Braun winds up sitting in Everett
Dirksen’s chair, she will be as conven-

Name-calling is childish The Footbridge fights back

To the Editor,

Tragic. It is simply tragic to walk
through this campus and see signs
besrnudging the names of presidential
candidates. Washington and Lee stu-
dents are supposed to be intelligent
thoughtful people, people who shall
lead this nation in the near future. Slan-
dering campaign candidates or other

persons is a childish tactic. Fine. Feel
free to support your presidential choice.
Speak forhirn, reiterate the strong points
of his platform, but not stoop to name
calling. Ifthis is to be acceptable, than
our country is truly in astate of deterio-
ration.

Kathryn Noel Barbour, '93

 

secretary of state cable us in Africa two years later, urging us to I

LETTERS

tional a Democrat as he was a Repub-
lican. She wants to raise taxes on the
reptilian rich, “to invest” in this and
that, and to siphon off more federal
dollars for Illinois, which she says ranks
48th among the states in the ratio of
dollars sent to Washington and dollars
returned. She expects to get to the sen-
ate partly because ‘ ‘the senate
demystiﬁed itself” in the Clarence
Thomas-Anita Hill debacle. She does
not mean, as some journalists have
suggested, that most women are, or
were, inﬂamed with sympathy forHill.
They weren’t. Rather, she means that
the senate Judiciary Committee con-
vinced people that you could not throw
rice in a restaurant without hitting half
a dozen people who would be better
senators.

Fewer than three in 10 of the state's
votes are cast in Chicago and
Williamson hopes that downstate vot-
ers are still Chicagophobic. But they
do not dislike Democrats. Today most
downstaters are represented by Demo-
cratic majorities in both houses of the
state legislature.

Williamson believes Braun wasted
her post-prirriary glow, much as Bush
wasted his after Desert Storm.
Williamson says she failed to produce
an agenda beyond her persona. But her
persona is much of her agenda, which
is to ‘ ‘open the senate to working-class

people.” On those terms, all she has to
do to succeed in the Senate is get there.

Williamson feels dragged down by
Bush who, he says, is perceived as
intolerant on moral issues and injuri-
ous to the economy. Democrats -
lieve Braun will help Clinton by -
creasing Chicago’s turnout, especially
black voters. Since the Democrats’ ri-
otous convention of 1968, no Demo-
cratic presidential candidate has won a
majority of votes in the city and its
suburbs. ‘

Illinois is, as Michael Barone says
in “The Almanac of American Poli-
tics,” the megastate most representa-
tive of Blacks and Hispanics, city-
dwellers and suburbanites and farm-
ers, the afﬂuent and the impoverished.
It also is a presidential bellwether, hav-
ing voted for the winner in all butt 0
elections in the last 100 years. (It voted
against two Southern Democrats -
Wilson in 1916 and Carter in 1976.)
Considering that Dukakis got 49 per-
cent of Illinois’ vote in 1988, Clinton’s
lead today is not surprising.

Strange, the way political evens
echo and ricochet. If, as many political
soothsayers believe, the presidential
election will be settled in the Middle
West, the decision may be shaped by
what happened in Illinois’ Senate pri-

mary last March.
© 1992, Washington Part Writers Group 0

To the Editor,

As editor of The Footbridge magazine, I feel compelled to answer last week’s
editorial, ‘ ‘A Footbridge for the Future.’ ’ I offer the following objections both for
the factual inaccuracies and for what I believe to be an error in judgment.

Your editorial stated that the Pub Board paid $500 to help the magazine get
started. In fact, the actual amount was $350. I say this not to belittle the Board’s
generous contribution, but only to set the record straight. '

In addition, the editorial listed what it believed to be the six big stories at W&L
last year (emphasis mine), saying that “None of these stories was covered in the
pages of The Footbridge.” In fact, three of those stories: rapes on campus, the
CRC, and the reinstitution of Alpha Phi Alpha were discussed in the second issue.
Two other stories — Fraternity Renaissance and the suspension of Delta Tag

B see LETTERS, page 2

 

    

The Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1992

OPINION

Mexican food becomes sexual too

Si>os’ SPACE
. By Tom Hespos

Greetings. I have some unpleasant
things to say this week, so bear with
me.

I have two words for the freshman

9 class: “Speaking Tradition.” Whatzup

wgh you folks? On my way to The

' Ring-tum Phi office last week, I said

hello to about ﬁve of you and got the
exact same reply that I get when I talk

‘to (nay, scream at) the cash machine
V when it insists that my account doesn’t

exist.

‘Now, I don’t expect you to stop and
vo unteer personal sexual histories or
anything. (actually, if you’re female,
about 5 ’6”, 36-24-34, I will listen, but
I digress-) However, I at least would
expect a simple acknowledgement of
my greeting. I guess they skipped that
part of freshman orientation. 1 know
thgt most of them went to play ‘Duck-
Duck-Goose’ at the Pavilion a few
weeks ago. Go ﬁgure.

Ihave two words for the upperclass-
men: “Pickup Lines.” During these
past few weeks, I have had the pleasure
of§eeing so many upperclass guys get
rejected by freshman girls that I ex-
pected Chuck Woolery to pop out from
behind a bush and tell me that I was in
the middle of a “Love Connection”
episode. A typical confrontation might
go something like this:

‘Joe Frat: [Intoxicated] Hey Babel

[unintelligible obscenity] So whaddya
say we go upstairs?

Nellie Newcomer: Leave me alone.
I have a grenade launcher.

In wimessing such Kodak moments,
I have heard several failed pickup lines,
thus the subject of today’s Top Ten list:

Top Ten Pickup Lines that Didn’t
Work, but Should Have

10) “Hey, baby, you bought that
‘Buns of Steel’ video, didn’t you?”

9) “Hi, I’m a fraternity renaissance
contractor. I have more money than
God.”

8) [Guy dumps beer on girl]
“Whaddya say we go upstairs and get
out of these wet clothes?” -

7) “Are your legs tired? ’Cause
you’ve been running through my mind
all night.”

6) “If I told you that you had a great
body, would you hold it against me?” -
suggested by a sophomore friend of
mine- It got him kicked in the cojones.

5) “Now f—k me if I’m wrong, but
isn’t your name Zelda?”

4) “So...what are you making me
for breakfast tomorrow?”

3) “I am the Lizard King!!! I can do
anything!!!” (worked for Jim Morrison)

2) “Make me late for work-study
tomorrow.”

1) “Hi, I'm George Will.”

Fellas, try these out on the babes. .

Speaking of babes, has anyone seen the

new Slaughter video? In case you
haven't, it stars none other than 90210
sex kitten Shannen Doherty
(schwiiiinnggl). Like several million
young actresses before her, Shannen
has attempted to bolster her career by
appearing semi-nude amongst a bunch
of Neanderthal hairbags playing ex-
pensive instruments.

turn on the TV these days without
seeing some kind of sexually sugges-
tive material. Advertising people are
designing sexually suggestive commer-
cials for motor oil, major appliances,
even Mexican food. Can you think of
anything less sexually arousing than
Mexican food? Yet, when you see a
couple of jiggling breasts in a skin-

tight Taco Bell

uniform in a com-

...Television is kind of getting out of
hand. You can’t turn on the TV these

days without seeing some kind of sexu-

ally suggestive material. Advertising

people are designing sexually sugges-

tive commercials for motor oil, major

appliances, even Mexican food. Can

you think of anything less sexually

arousing than Mexican food?

mercial, you are
never again ableto
walk into a Taco
Bell without, well,
Schwiiiinngg!
What’s next?
You’lltumonPBS
and see Ernie and
Bert coming on to
Big Bird, trying to
get a threesome
going.

Okay, I'm go-
ing to conduct a
survey, the results
of which will be

The video is, as planned, totally
image-shattering for Shannen. She
went from that-cutesie-pie-girl-next-
door to “rock slut" almost overnight.
What’s next for Shannen after 90210?
Who cares, because the girl who plays
Kelly is much hotter.

I hate to say this, but television is
kind of getting out of hand. You can’t

published in my
next column.
“Why?” you might ask. Because I can.
The question of the week is: Who is
the sexiest person on television to-
day? Submit your response at the Phi
office during normal business hours
and I might print it, depending on
whether I can use it to make you look
like a fool or not. “Roseanne Amold”
is not an acceptable answer.

Economic treaty benefits all parties

NIY VIEW
ByJohn M. Gunn
On Aug. 12 the chief executives of Canada, the

United States and Mexico took a great step forward
for the peoples of these countries when they signed a

. treaty to establish the North American Free Trade

Aﬁsociation (NAFTA). When ratified, this treaty
w 1 create the largest free-trade area in history,
larger, even, than the European Community. I be-
lieve this treaty will prove to be one of the most
important economic events in the history of the
United States and of all North America—indeed,
another milestone toward fuller integration of the
entire global economy.

‘There will be transitional problems of adjustment
inalltl1reecountries:(1)Some temporaryunemploy-
merit is inevitable as resources shift from compara-
tively less efﬁcient employrnents to comparatively
more efficient ones; (2) Some permanent decline will

occur in particular industries, and inparticular 1ocali- 1‘
ties, in each country, as the more effective structure V

oﬂproduction evolves; and (3) Some laborers may
have to make geographical moves they do not like,
and both some laborers and some investors from the

declining industries will suffer at least relative, per-
manent declines in their incomes.

When the restructuring of industry throughout the
continent has been completed there will be more real
production in the aggregate, in each country. Re-
sources no longer needed to produce what formerly
they were producing (inefficiently), become avail-
able to produce additional goods and services the
nations previously could not have had. Thus, there
will be a higher average real wage and higher stan-
dard of living in each country.

In addition, it is highly probable, though not quite
certain, that the distribution of income will be im-
proved, even as the average increases. In general, it
will be those who had the higher incomes previously
(those whose resources were “relatively scarce”)
who lose and those whose incomes were lower (own-
ers of the “relatively abundant” resources) whose
incomes will be increased most by increasing trade.

The gains will NOT be equal in all three countries.
We are a disparate group of three countries who enter
into this arrangement-—the advariced and ‘wealthy
USA ‘and Canada, with the much less developed,
much less well-to-do Mexico.

The USA, already the world’s largest and most
diverse economy, has the least to gain from addi-

tional specialization and trade according to compara-
tive costs. Mexico, by contrast, should gain the most
proportionately. But all will gain substantially.

Moreover, the USA and Canada, can have nothing
but benefit from a more prosperous, more stable
Mexico. And even from the point of view of the
world’s environment, experience has been that the
nations with the highest per capita real incomes are
the ones taking the most action to preserve the envi-
ronrnent—raising the income of Mexico will enable
that country to contribute more to the global effort for
sustainable lifestyles.

The treaty is far short of an ideal one. There are
some outrageous, special-interest exceptions in it.
But including these special-interest, monopolistic
provisions apparently was the price of getting the
treaty signed. Once NAFTA is established confi-
dently, we can work to remove these unjustified
subsidies to special-interest groups.

Half a century ago the late Wendell Wilkie argued
that the most critical factor in the economic develo -

‘merit ofthe'USAto‘that date was that it was the iarg t

free-trade area on earth. Now it is about to become a
much larger one.

John M. Gunn has been an Associate Professor of
economics at W&L since 1967.

Q

LETTERS

D LETTERS, from page 2

Delta — were no longer “hot” issues
when our first issue was published at
the end of March. So even if one ac-
CQNS your definition of news at W&L
as simply “the big six” stories, the
Footbridge did deem some of them as
worthy of elaboration.

Another point rriade in the editorial
was that The Footbridge was created
only to be a news magazine. In fact, if
y&i look at the credo and the mission
statement of the rriagazine —the guide-
lines setby the Pub Board—there is no
mention that the publication should
cover hard news at all.

fact I spotted in your editorial, they
point to what I feel was an error in
judgment. You stated that articles which
are intended for entertainment, such as
Alex Ruskell’s “Why I Love Elvis”
piece, may be enjoyable to read but
their ‘ ‘value in a campus magazine is at
best, debatable.” Cannot a magazine
which extends beyond the same six
stories which are the focus of every
issue of the Phi be valuable? I believe
so.

I suggest that if a magazine encour-
ages students to take the time to work
on skills such as writing articles, man-
aging funds, selling ads and learning
what makes a publication work — t is
valuable. Also, if it attracts readers to

examine writing with amixture of plea-
sure and criticism, (and judging from
the verbal and written responses to our
first two issues, The Footbridge did) it
is even more valuable.

I regret that you do not see the
“value” of our magazine, but I am
grateful for the staff and readers who
do.

Sincerely,
Jimmy Walsh

The Footbridge

‘ .

 
 
   
 

 

Heaﬂh

The Health Education Commit-
tee will meet Thursday, Sept. 24, at
6:30 p.m. in room 109 of the Uni-
versity Center. Anyone interested
in student health is welcome to at-
tend, as we will be organizing for a
great year! If you are interested but
can’t attend or have any questions,
call Christy at 463-9743.

Parade

Our group needs a 4-wheel drive
vehicle to pull a ﬂoat for the Home-
coming Parade October 3. Anyone
who would be willing to lend us a
vehicle please contact Amy at 464-
8032.

Calyx

The Calyx is now organizing its
1993 yearbook staff. New and old
members welcome! Tuesday, Sept.
29, 7:30 p.m. in the University Cen-
ter room 206. Many positions avail-
able. We are also looking for people
with darkroom experience.

Food Dr Ive

Chi Omega will be sponsoring a

' food drive until Wednesday, Sept.
30 to aid victims of Hurricane An-
drew. There is still a great need for
our help. Please drop off your non-
perishable items in the designated

box at the Co-op. Questions? Call
Amy Panella at 463-1666.

Bike Trek

Colonial Virginia Bike Trek—-
Oct. 2-4 in Williamsburg. $25 reg-
istration plus $275 pledges. Food,
lodging and entertainmentprovided.
For details call 7,03-434-LUNG.

‘ Lost
; :  £bst:‘one"l4K gold llo6p'éariﬁg.
Iffound please call 463-6832.

Women’s Forum

There will be a meeting of
Women's Forum this Sunday, Sept.
27, at 6 p.m. in the women’s center,
located in the basement of the Uni-
versity Center. Everyone is invited.

Radio

Any students or faculty inter-
ested in doingaclassical radio show
can contact Leland at 463-8444.
Please leave a message.

EC Budgets

The Executive Committee will
hear student orgariization’s budget
requests beginning Monday, Sept.
28.

For more information contact
Ames Hutton at 463-8588 (office)
or 463-9108 (home).

1!,-._

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault (RACASA)
is organizing a training course for
new volunteers. The course will be
taught by Robyn Douglass of
Staunton’s Blue Ridge Sexual As-
sault Center, and will consist of
tliirty-tliree hours of training. Top-
ics to be covered include myths and
facts about sexual assault, crisis in-
tervention, emotional, medical and
legal issues, the sex offender, child
sexual abuse and risk reduction.

The course will run from Octo-
ber 6 to December 15 and will in-
clude seven Tuesday evening ses-
sions and two Saturday sessions.
RACASA provides crisis interven-
tion and victim support services as
well as public programming on
sexual assault and risk reduction.
Anyone interested in training as a
volunteer, or anyone seeking addi-
tional information, should call the
hotline at 463-RAPE (727 3).

College Dem.

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats Sunday, Sept.
27 at 7 p.m. in room 109 of the
University Center. Bring Checks
for members hip dues. Call Cottie
Miles at 464-6133.

Debate

Pi Sigma Alpha and United We
Stand American will sponsor an eco-
nomic debate between Steve
Musselwhite and Bob Goodlatte,
candidates forthe 6th Congressional
District. The debate will be Mon-
day, Sept. 28, from 7-9 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Jewish ?

Hillel offers carpools to area
temples for the Jewish High Holi-
days. Please call Dr. Marks at 463-
8788 (office) or 463-9574 (home)
for information. Also, there will be
a Rosh Hashanah service Sunday
evening in Lee Chapel. / '

Seniors
Attend the Career Development
and Placement Workshops this
week.

Interviewing Workshop: Mon-
day, Sept. 28, 4 p.m in the Univer-
sity Center.

Resume and Cover Letters: Tues-
day, Sept. 29, 4 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Center.

Practice Interviews: Wednesday,
Sept. 30, all day. Sign up is re-
quired.

Student Leaders

If your organization is consider-
ing sponsoring a Parents’ Weekend
event which will be open to all par-
ents and student, please contact
David Howison or Nellie Rice in
the Dean of Students office, Payne
Hall, no later than Sept. 30.

We want to make sure all activi-
ties are listed in the final program.

Though those are the only errors of

 

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

   

TALKBACK

’ Describe the new Watson Gallery in three words or
less (small words don’t count).

 

Dennis Gambow, ’93, Cincinnati,
Ohio ——- “Tradition be damned.”

Matt Montgomery, ’93, Stone
Mountain, Ga. — “Festering,

architectural blight.”

Erin McKinney, ’95, Anderson, S.C. and Megan McCloskey, ’95,
Davidsonville, Md. — “A plumbers’ butt convention.”

Pat Mcbermott. ’94, Newburyport. Melissa Wolf, :95, Rose Valley, Pa.

Maine — “A Comingware outlet.”

— “Lewd men in hole.”

 

 

Closet door still shut ,

The Ring-tum Phi, September '24, "1992

FEATURES

Gays, lesbians remain invisible minority

Ask Dr. Worth

By Dr. James Worth

Last week I read in the Phi about this new
organization called GALA and it really
surprised me. Why do people turn to ho-
mosexuality and can they be helped?

Homosexuality is a subject everyone thinks
: about at one time or another, but most
people have trouble talking about objec-
tively. There is a lot of misunderstanding.
College students are often afraid to ask questions for

fear of being labeled, so these misunderstandings tend
to persist.

Homosexuality is no longer considered a psychiatric
illness, yet gay men and lesbians need a great deal of
personal strength and courage to face the enormous
pressure from straight society.

On a personal level, you don’t have to approve of or
accept homosexuality. That's your own business. But
at a social level it is not acceptable and may even be
illegal to harass people about their sexual orientation. In
fact gay men and lesbians are everywhere in society but,
because many of them feel they must remain hidden to
be safe, they are largely an invisible minority.

Over the years I have counseled many gay men and
some lesbians, both in the undergraduate student body
and the law school. They are represented in the major
Greek organizations, student government, dormitory

counselors, Phi Beta Kappa and

Renovated Troubadour Theatre opens

See y’a|| at

the movies

 

By JOYCE BAUTISTA m°Vle5-
 Feanues  “It [the Troubadour]
-————————— can be used for meetings
It once served, at dif- but films have priority,”
ferenttirnes,asapool hall, Eppes said. 9
roller rink and hardware The opening is being
store. paid for through the Stu-

But tomorrow
evening’s black-tie event
marks the return of the
Troubadour Theatre to one
of its former uses as a
movie house.

“The Troubadour has
been turned into a first-
rate university cinema,”
Washington and Lee Dean

dent Activities Budget,_
Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said.

Renovations to the
building totalled appmxi-
mately $82,000, includ- '
ing projection and sound
equipment.

Atkins said the funds

Perhaps more than anything else,
straight people wonder how anyone
could be homosexual in the first
place. Straights typically view ho-

Questions to Dr. Worth
can be submitted to

Omicron Delta Kappa, and the ma-
jor athletic teams. They look just
like everyone else and with a few
exceptions have had little trouble

' ety is hosting tomorrow's

mosexual behavior with disgust or C 31.01 C alkins in the Uni_

versity Center.

even fear. A number of people op-
pose it on religious grounds and in
some places homosexual acts are

passing for straight. Often their best
friends were heterosexual.

A lesbian or gay male almost
never will approach a straight per-

illegal, even between consenting
adults behind closed doors.

Heterosexuals ask, “How could anyone do sexual
things with someone of their own sex?”

The answer is not completely known. Homosexual-
ity has existed since mankind has kept records and
occurs among all cultures. It does not seem related
to intelligence, social class or race.

Males are somewhat more likely to be
homosexual than females at a ratio of
something like 2 to 1 or 3 to 2.

The actual amount of homosexuality
in American society is estimated to be 3
to 6 percent of women and 6 to 9 percent
of men.

The number of males who have en-
gaged in at least one homosexual act lead-
ing to orgasm may be as high as 20 percent.

Researchers are more and more coming to believe
that homosexuality is caused by a complex combina-
tion of factors that include both genetic predisposition
and environmental influence.

A large number of gay men and lesbians realized
they were different even as children. One thing is
certain: people don’t consciously choose their sexual
orientation, they discover it.

Straight people may not realize that gay men and
lesbians are usually surprised and, until they accept
their orientation, troubled by their homosexual feel-
ings.

Society frequently treats them with disdain, thus
forcing them either to hide their orientation or experi-
ence rejection and condemnation.

 

son. The only time I have known
that to happen was when the straight person (knowingly
or not) sent some confusing signals about what they
wanted to happen. Gays and lesbians know that a
straight person won’t be interested in them physically
and respect that.
Sexual preference is not related to how well you
can play your gender role or how secure you
feel in your masculinity or femininity. Gay
men can be very masculine and lesbians
very comfortable with their femininity.
On the other hand, people can have ter-
rible doubts about their adequacy as males
or females yet not be at all homosexual.
’ Since homosexuality is no longer con-
sidered a psychiatric illness, mental health
professionals have stopped using the word
“cure.” If an individual has homosexual feel-
ings but is sufficiently bisexual that they can be-
come romantically attracted to members of the opposite
sex, it is possible for them to marry, have children and
lead a heterosexual lifestyle. ‘
However, individuals who are only weakly or not at
all interested in members of the opposite sex cannot
change their orientation. Neither drugs nor counseling
seem to make any difference. They can be celibate of
course and attempt to mimic a heterosexual adjustment,
but for them this would be to live a lie. It would also
deny them the intimacy and companionship all human
beings need.Accepting oneself as gay or lesbian is not
always easy, nor is it easy for many straight folks to deal
with the real or suspected homosexuality of someone
they know.

of Students David

 

for the renovation came

Howison said.
The W&L Film Soci-

opening night of the the-
ater.

“I thought it would be
fun,” Film Society Presi-
dent senior Missy Eppes said. “In the
tradition of movie premieres, black-
tie is the rule.”

The celebration will include the
screening of the Chinese romantic-
comedy “Red Sorghum." The 1988
winner of the Best Film Award at the
Berlin Film Festival is one of two
films this semester that are in
cinemascope.

“Cinemascope offers a more pan-
orarriic sweep of scenes,” Media Cen-
ter Director Claude “Flash" Floyd
said. “The screen is wider and shorter
than a normal movie screen.”

Floyd was in charge of handling
the technical aspects of the theater’s
renovation.

The technical advice and equip-
ment was provided by Lee Hartman
& Sons Inc. of Roanoke.

“The Troub is comparable to the
best movie houses on other college

Photos by Amy French, The Fling-tum Phi

The Troubadour Theatre’s clnemascope capabllltles
allow tllms otherwise restricted to commercial the-
aters to come to W&L.

.. §

 

The theater lobby abounds with
the posters of past and future
movles presented by the W&L

   

from the discretionary

fund.

“The renovation was
/not terribly expensive,”
Atkins said.
_ wasn't any major recon-

struction.”
Atkins said to curb costs, buildhigs

and grounds staff assisted in structural '

reconstruction.

Recently the office space upstairs
was made available to W&L’s sorori-
ties.

“We hope that this year the sorori-
ties will utilize offices for other Gian
storage,” Atkins said.

Eppes said once the Lenfest Center l,
was completed the Film Society -

thoughtthe club wouldbeableto show
movies at a real movie house as op-
posed to a W&L Law School class-
room. 0

“It’s like having Fancy Dress in the

Taj Mahal as opposed to the gym,”
Eppes said.

Before tlieLenfestCenter‘s comple-
tion, the Troubadour Theatre was home

to the W&L drama department for

over 60 years. Situated in downtﬂvn

section of the general’

“There '

is??? M, ilk?"-E  ' 

 

Apple Macintosh PowerBook'"145 4/40

or buy a Macintosh that’s alread oaded.

I But hurry, because student aid like this is only available through " .

$880 4/40
$988 4/so

   

Apple Macintosh Classic‘ 11

Get a great value on your choice of these Apple® Macintosh®

computers plus over $400 worth of preloaded software: The American Oct. 15, 1992 — and only from your authorized Apple campus reseller.

Heritage Dictionary with Roget’s Thesaurus, the Random House

Encyclopedia, Correct Grammar, Resuméwriter and Calendar Creator.

0,
0 0 0 0 0
For further information visit the Computer Center in Tucker Hall
ask for Mac McCloud or call 46 3-8844 sgeyboard and monitor not tnciuded
© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. Powerliook is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic g

Thesaurus, and Corrt-c'l‘ext " developed by Houghton Mifllin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by language Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResuméWn‘tcr is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc.

All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh Powerliook I45 4/40 conﬁguration only.

 

campuses that I’m familiar with,” Film society‘

Floyd said.

Floyd said the only difference between the theater’s
facilities and those of a commercial movie theater is the use
of two 16mm projectors instead of one 35mm projector.

The new sound system provides a simulated surround
effect.

Trained student projectionists will have to be present
during all presentations, Eppes said.

Eppes said the Troubador will also be used by the Student
Activities Board and various academic departments to show

  
 
 

   

$988 ‘4/40
$1095 ‘4/so

 

 

the public. ’ "

$1204 *3/40
$1413 *5/so

 

Lexington on the comer of Main and
Henry Streets, the Troubadour Theatre has been the site for
plays, operas, movies and vaudeville acts since the 1850s.
“The main pull behind the renovation of the Troub was
Dick Grefe,” Eppes said. Associate professor and senior
reference librarian Grefe is the Film Society's adviser.
“The Film Society would like to thank the universitgfor
the donation,especially during fraternity renovation,” Eppes
said. -
All W&L Film Society presentations are free and open to

..-~

Apple Macintosh LC II

The Macintosh Student Aid Package. C’.

   

Apple Macintosh Ilsi

 

I he Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1992

Four countries converge atW&L

ew foreign exchange students learn more than English in Lexington

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Contributing Writer

At the round table in the kitchen of
I e ﬁitemational House on Lee AV -
' nue, four students from different lands
= d different cultures spent an evening
aughing and talking.

Olga Kryuchenkova, the daughter

3 f one of the former Soviet Union’s top

- uclear scientists, arrived from the town
f C§ielyabinsk-70, where she was a

tudent at the Teacher Training Col-
ege.

Through arrangements made by the

erican College Consortium, she is
pending this year at W&L.
This year is important to her so that
he can learn the skills necessary to be
a Russian/English translator.
Used to a poor variety of goods in
Russia, Kryuchenkova is sometimes
. o rised by the large number of choices
f goods in American shops.
“With so much to choose from, it’s
som9times hard to makeup yourmind,”
he says.

German Saﬁn is a classical pianist

from Kounos, Lithuania.

He says that he wants to bring this
car’ s study of economics back to help
's country.

Next year he will return to Moscow
N tate Institute of International
' elations.Gerrnan speaks enthusiasti-
ally of Russian President Boris
Yeltsin’s recent decision to withdraw

Meiodlous sounds emanate
from Fairfax Lounge when Satin
practices piano.

otos yMa|lory eyer, 2

Four new international students will be spending this year at W&L. The students
from left to right are Olga Kryuchenkova, Chelyabinsk; Daisuke Kusaka, Japan;

Rocio Grimaldo, Panama; and German satin, Lithuania.

troops from Lithuanian territory.

Even with this enthusiasm one can
see that he does not bear ill will to-
wards Russians, a popular animosity
that has caused problems in a different
part of the former union for
Kryuchenkova’s family.

They used to vacation ir1 Georgia
(one of the former ﬁfteen republics of
the USSR), but now ethnic violence
against Russians prevents her farni1y’s
return.

When the conversation turned to
W&L’s Honor System, the students
spoke with great pride that they were
able to take part in such a unique sys-
tem.

“A system like this would never
work at home it’s really amazing how
seriously it is taken here,” Japanese
student Daisuke Kusaka says, lower-
ing his voice to emphasize his words.

Kusaka wanted to gain a new per-
spective of his home country by expe-

riencing the completely different ways
of the United States.

As an exchange student from Kansai
Gaidai University in Osaka, he is study-
ing sociology for one year.

With a smile or laugh or a pat on the
back of his friends, Kusaka shows that
he enjoys the company of his new
schoolmates.

Rocio Grimaldo came from Panama
City, Panama to study journalism.

She was very excited because her
parents had just sent her a box full of
her favorite Latin music stars’ cas-
settes that she can put with her Ameri-
can music collection.

She melds the two cultures of
Panama and the USA together and is
comfortable with all people, no matter
what their background.

She and Kryuchenkova have be-
come fast friends, inseparable around
campus.

Being so far away from home, all of

There are great opportunities
Washington, D.C., and many of our U.S. offices. We will be on
campus October 8, 1992 to interview December and May account-
ing graduates interested in our Audit and Business Advisory and
Tax and Business Advisory Services Practices. We will also be at
the Law School Placement Office on October 8, 1992 to interview
December and May graduates with an undergraduate accounting
background who are interested in our Tax Practice. We are hosting
a reception on October 7 at 7:00 pm at the Alumni House. Please
stop by to learn more about us. Contact your appropriate place-
ment office for further details.

Accelerate your career.

. . . like Jennifer Burns, a 1992 Washington and Lee graduate who
joined Arthur Andersen's Washington, D.C. office.

The Arthur Andersen Worldwide Organization provides
professional services in Audit and Business Advisory Services,
Tax and Business Advisory Services and Corporate Specialty
Services to clients through more than 300 locations in 67 countries.

We work with organizations ranging from large multina-
tional corporations to medium and small-sized companies in real
estate, high technology, government contracting, hospitality, and
many other industries.

ARTHUR
ANDERSEN

ARTHUR ANDERSEN &; CO., S.C.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

waiting for you in

Stay ahead.

the students say they
miss their loved
ones and the famil-
iarity of their old
lives.

Saﬁn especially
misses his sister and
especiallyhis young
niece, whom he vis-
ited right before de-
parting for the
United States.

The discussion
turned to the con-
tinuing Russian oc-
cupation of the
Japanese Kuriie is-
lands, captured in
the closing days of
World War II and
never returned to
Japan.

“I believe that
history is history
and wecan’tchange
v it. We must respect

the generation of
Russians who now
lives on the islands;
I don’t see any rea-
son to give them
back to Japan,”
Kryuchenkova ar-
es.

“I think the Rus-
sians should just keep them; it was the
Japanese who started the aggression,”
Kusaka agreed.

When Grimaldo and Kryuchenkova
walked several miles to Kmart recently
to do some shopping, they were sur-
prised by the reactions of some Ameri-
can students, who were amazed that
they had willingly walked so far.

“Americans are so used to going
everywhere in cars. In Panama we think
nothing of walking, but Americans can
be lazy sometimes when it’s easier to
get in a car,” Grimaldo explained.

With a familiar guitar strain coming
from the living room, all heads craned
to see the Red Hot Chili Peppers on
MTV, followed soon by the attached
bodies dancing in front of the screen.

The talk was finished, but it was
clear that the evening had helped each
student understand the others’ opin-
ions better and respect more other
peoples’ customs and ideas.

6 In

ACROSS
1 Festive
5 Feel one's way

to Happiness

14 Slaughter of

baseball

15 Flaxen cloth
16 Garnet and coral
17 Over all

18 Notions

19 Sts.

20 Does again

22 Manner of

preparing food

24 Slice

25 Vaticinators

26 Abuse

30 Thawed

34 Yoko —

35 Protective mail
37 Probe

38 Animal fat

40 Fathers

42 Control strap
43 Caper

45 Counts calories
47 Play a part

48 Used car deal
50 Fundamental

parts
52 Stores
54 Got the
prize

55 Vacuum

58 Tired looking
62 Cease

63 Wild eseapade
65 Land expanse
66 Stare at

amorously

67 Weary

68 Man

69 Look intently
70 Winter vehicles
71 Noble Italian

family

DOWN

1 Outﬁt

2 Poker stake

3 Lariat part

4 Side

5 Shines brilliantly
6 Frees (from)

7 Small bill

8 Serenity

9 Came after

Colonnade Crossword

@1992 Tribune Media Services, inc.

All Rights Reserved

10 Having thicker

sod
11 Son of Jacob
12 First place
13 Being
21 Halo
23 Angry
25 Tales
26 Large tooth
27 Silly
28 Out of —

(irritable)
29 Surrounded by
31 Not carrying a

weapon
32 Force to move
33 Fender mishaps
36 Lively dance
39 Circle divider
41 Waiters in

charge of wine
44 Thunder sound
46 impure air
49 Builds
51 Hire
53 Woodland path
55 Factory

1

60 Lease

61 Social
engagement

64 Before: pref.

56 Carry on

57 Magazine title
58 Listen to

59 God of war

WLUR weekday radio schedule

Morning Mag (Rock) - Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.

Jazz - Monday, 9 a.m.—11a.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-1 1 :30 a.m.
AM Overture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-1 1 a.m.
Inspirational - Thursday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.
Public Affairs -Monday through Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
Country - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.

Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.

Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.
Third Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

the
Student Activities

presents

Opening Act: Gibb Droll

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2
PAVILION, 8:00 pm

Ticket Sales:
Mon., Sept. 28 — Thurs., Oct. 1.

In Front of Co—Op, $7 in advance
$10 at the door

BEER GARDEN: ID required

Board :1

 

W&L hosts
Congress

candidates

Monday debate
pits Musselwhite
against Goodlatte

By ROBERT Wn.soN
Phi Contributing Writer

W&L students will have achance to
hear and question two candidates run-
ning for Congress from Virginia’s Sixth
District.

Republican Bob Goodlatte, ’77L,
and Democrat Steve Musselwhite will
debate national economic policy is-
sues on Sept. 28 at7p.m. inLee Chapel.

Cottie Miles, president of the Pi
Sigma Alpha politics honor society, a
debate sponsor, said Washington and
Lee is the perfect place for the event.

“We couldn't have asked for a bet-

ter location. Lexington is located in the

center of District 6, right between
Roanoke and Staunton,” Miles said.
“Also, the fact that it is being held on
campus in Lee Chapel gives the stu-
dents access.”

Though the focus of the debate will
be on the economy, Miles said students
will be able to ask the candidates about
any issue.

“I hope that the student body gets

 involved in this and comes out to meet

the candidates and help decide who
will be the next congressman,” Miles
said.

Miles said Musselwhite is the fa-
vorite in the race because Democrats
have held the seat for the past 20 years.

Bob Denton, a politics professor

I from VirginiaPo1ytechnic Institute, will

_ __ moderate the debate. The event is sched-

uled to last about 75 minutes.
Virginia’ s Perot petition committee

" and Contact are also sponsoring the

debate.

Contact will host a public reception
after the debate at the Phi Kappa Sigma
fraternity house.

 
  

  

Photo by W. Patrick Hinety, Washington and Lee

W&L's new faculty members include 11 people in nine departments.

New professors
‘in love with W&L’

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

Freshmen are not the only people
experiencing W&L academics for the
first time. Some professors are, too.

Eleven new faculty members in nine
departments are teaching classes for
the first time here this fall.

“I’m very pleased with my classes
so far,” Professor of Religion Winston
Davis said. “Despite Rush, students
are still prepared."

Davis, a specialist in Japanese Bud-
dhism, taught at six different schools,
including Stanford and Princeton, be-
fore coming to W&L. He has written
two books and several articles on Japa-
nese Buddhism and related topics.

Heather Miller, a new professor of
English, said she is looking forward to
working with her students.

“I ’m very impressed by the quality
of work at the undergraduate level
here,” Miller said.

Miller, who will teach creative writ-
ing, is the author of five novels, a

volume of short prose, four poetry vol-
umes and has had several poems pub-
lished in literary journals. Before com-
ing to W&L, Miller taught a creative
writing program at the University of
Arkansas.

Assistant math professor Douglas
Szajda said he already feels at home at
W&L.

“It’s a lot like my undergraduate
school,” Szaj da, who went to Lafayette
College, said. “It’s a very pretty cam-
pus and everyone seems very friendly.”

Other faculty members new to the
Hill this fall are Hugh Blackmer and
Betty Ruth Kondayan in the University
Library, Evan Bridenstine in the the-
atre department, Agnes Carbrey in the
art department, Malcolm Crystal in
history, Jonathan Filer and David
Jorgensen in geology and Domnica
Radulescu in the romance languages
department.

Miller said W&L is just what she
was looking for.

“I wanted a good school in a good
area with a good writing program,”
Miller said. “I’m in love with W& .”

Post office boxes restricted for safety

By NIKKI MAGAZINER

Phi Staff Writer

If your post office box happens to belocated in the leweri
level of the Lexington Post Office this year, don’t>t_ry to get”?

to it after the main office closes. .

According to Postmaster Larry Creamer, the lower level
boxes will only be accessible to postal patrons from 6 a.m.
to 6 p.m., Monday through Saturday, for safety reasons.

Creamer said the Lexington Police Department recom-
mended the lower level be closed after hours because it is not
visible from the street. This would increase the likelihood
of vandalism to post office property and violent crimes

against postal patrons, Creamer said.

Lexington Police Chief B.M. Beard expressed a concern

over the vandalism.

Beard said someone broke into the annex in the middle
of the night last year and vandalized some of the boxes.

. . Creamer. said that violent crime was also an issue in his
 éldse the ‘lower level.

“No_ rn_o_t_lie_r or father would want their child to be hurt,”

.Ahe saigi,jf,W;g,qlso have to look out for female snidents.”

Creamer said the post office had considered hiring secu-
rity guards to guard the lower level at night but the expense
proved to be too high for the post office budget.

Creamer said although students may not have full-time
access to their boxes, the quality of service to the students
has been increased by moving the boxes to the lower level
from the annex. He said mail will be placed in the boxes

earlier and access to certified mail and packages will be

simplified.

Dirty House?

' Dirty Bathroom?
Dirty Apartment?

Call Linda. at 261-4774.

She can clean for you!

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCE!!
Individuals and Student Organizations
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation ’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013

BBS for IBM Clones!
Call the Bulletin-Board
for Computer Software
from 5pm to 7am seven
days a week. 261-4967

Register to

VOTE NOW

So we don’t have to hear you
complain about it later

Questions?

BIG BROTHER-BIG SISTER-TUTORS

ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Tuesday, Sept. 29

7:30

University Center 114
Help an underprivileged child in the

community.’

BE THERE!

Brandon Neblett
Julian Smith

463-9767
464-6004

    
   

The Ftlng-tum Phl, September E4»; 19

O

  
 
 

  Harris Teeter

 
 
  

 

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
 "A"

BREA5 . ,
OUARTERS........ SO

I III-7.:

 
 
 
    
 
  

MEANS Iow PIIIES

REDUCED PRICE 

BETTY CROCKER Q
SPECIALTY POTATOES  I

._.§,._. ,‘_-... .__.~.;_..j,._.._.—-.' —._—-......_...».: -——— -—~—— -»-v — -«- ~ -

  
   
   
   
   
  
    

,-—- -

 

WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER I

DELI-BAKERY
ROAST BEE

STORE BAKED
OR
REGULAR

REDUCED
PRICE

 

 

SLICED TO
ORDER

CO

  

 

STUDENT'S

COURTESY CARD.

E WITH

Harrisreeter :;~;*°~ ._ _

_ Is ou n ’
roua. NAME I I1-otI3'e°IteI:éodIi:e);I. W’ ~— ~—
YOUR ADDRESS _ péTI_.m§,p%¥R?1?II I‘
\OURCl'l'Y.S'IATI-. lllll IMI Hplumoo Mm ., mm

X/X oi/oi/ot
1111111

55: on 2 HOIIISTGGIBI

IT ALLOWS YOU TO

CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134

HARRIS TEETER I TRIX CEREAL
  I WITH

GEORGIA, SOUTH  U3,

CAROLINA, NORTH 

CAROLINA, VIRGINIA - 

AND TENNESSEE Iio9oiooo

DIET COKE OR I -

Septemgtr 23 Thru
Se-rtem r29,T992

CA-COLA

VALUABLE 55¢ COUPON

BETTY CROCKER. I,
HAMBURGER HELPER

6.5-8.75. oz. ‘

    

TAKE ADVANTAGE or THIS $1.00 I ‘3l’I.§’I"
COUPON AND SAVE. ii‘-

VALUABLE $I.oo COUPON

I I   I I TOTAL CEREAL

I O I I

I ANY $3.00 on MORE I I WITH

I PURCHASE IN OUR I I $;3;g:3;:, 0,

I FLORAL DEPARTMENT I ;tI.L§°&°:'cP..%;;I;

er 9 I_,_er IsI . .. .
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT 3: REPRODUCED. I I p.."§i."I‘n.§'i§?' I‘”T‘oo.
I LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I I Se Sm r 5;” "W /
OFFER GOOD SEPT. 23 THRU SEPT. 29, I992 segmm Q9/1992 7,-I _
I FLORAL I I io9oiooo  . A __
I  I I ‘9t’t’u‘t” ,, M I ~
'-°° Harrrsreeter ants er “

Prices Effective Throu h September 29, I992 ’ Ii

 

WXZWXTTTTTTJ.‘

VALUABLE 7 5C COUPON .
I2 oz. BOX

    

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday September 23 Throug Tuesday, Sept

Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers.

 

ember 29 1992. In Lexin ton stores

We Gladiy Accept Federa Food Stamps’.'].,.__;7 , "I

   

   
 

.J

VALUABLE 55¢ COUPON" ,
I2 OZ. BOX

          
      
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
         
  
   
  
  

 

  
  

  
  
    
  
 
    
    

  

 
 

'1
I

The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1992

D

Kupposioﬁlllo

Welcome Back!

23 N. Main St., Lexington

Open Mon.-Sat. 10-5:30

 
   

 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS
Let us help you get organized with

Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

_ PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX #: 463-6918 lg
1 w. NELSON sr. -LEXING'1'ON,VIRGlNlA- ACROSS FROMTHEPOSTOFHCE

I

O1

COPYRIGHT 1992 - THE KROGER C0.

N0 CCISII?

NOW VOU can USE VOUF M0513 Debit Card, Visa,
Mastercard OI” Discover Card 120 charge
through the line at Kroger.
|t'S easy. It's fast. |t'S convenient.

IMO I119!‘ F1751’ I"I'0lﬂ.'

 

LOW PPCES. And MOVE.

Volleyball comes
close to upset

By MARK S 
Phi Contributing Writer

Inconsistency hounded the Wash-
ingtonandLeevolleyballteamthrough-
out the second armual W&L Invita-
tional. The Generals ﬁnished fourth in
the five-team tournament.

W&L ﬁnished 2-3 for the weekend,
defeating Carnegie Mellon and Wash-
ington and Jefferson. Their losses were
attire hands of Maryville, Sewanee and
Goucher.

Experience is what the Generals
lacked against the defending Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference champi-
ons, Guilford, last night. W&L’s over-
all record stands at 3-4.

W&L started the week off well with
a surprising 15-12, 15-13 victory over
the eventual nrnner-up of the tourna-
ment, Carnegie Mellon.

However, they were unable to draw
on that momentum, and lost to
Maryville in quick fashion, 15-8, 15-9.
Head coach Kristi Yarter said the team
reallycouldn’t get in gear for Maryville.
.“We never really showed for that
match,” said Yarter. “Everything good
that we had established in the first
match against Carnegie Mellon de-
serted us.”

The Generals went on to drop their
next two matches, against Sewanee
and Goucher, each in three games. In
both, W&L managed to win the first
game of the match, only to lose the next
two. Against tournament cham-

_ pion Sewanee, W&L fell 7-15, 15-5,

15-5. In the match versus Goucher,
W&L won the first game 15-12, and
was leading 13-10 in the second. But
Goucher mounted a furious rally to
take the game 16-14. Goucher contin-
ued to roll, taking the third, 15-6.

W&L finished the tournament with
a hard-fought 15-6, 2-15, 15-12 win
over Washington and Jefferson.

The losses showed the Generals’
lack of consistency. Yarter feels the
team needs to relax more.

“We were very inconsistent; very
good at times, very bad at others. The

bottom line is that we need to be more
consistent to win,” said Yarter. “I’m
stressing to the girls to remain calm. If
they stay relaxed and in control instead
of getting tense we can improve tre-
mendously.”

The team did show considerable
improvementinkills and blocking from
the previous weekend’s games at Chris-
topher Newport. Senior Leslie Hess
had a team-high 23 kills in the touma-
ment, while sophomore Jennifer
Garrigus and freshman Catherine Hess
each added 21.

Freshman Chrissy Hart helped so-
lidify the defense by leading the team
in blocks.

“We improved on the two things
that I wanted to: serving and block-
ing,” said Yarter. “Our form and tim-
ing improved on our blocks and we
were much more accurate with our
serves so we were able to cut down on
many of our errors.”

The defense continued to be the
strongest part of W&L’s game. Leslie
Hess ﬁnished the ﬁve games with 68
digs. Garrigus added 65 digs to her
team-leading total of 92 digs this year.
Garrigus is now averaging 4.4 digs per

e.

W&L opened their 1992 ODAC
season with a game at the Warner Cen-
ter against a solid Guilford team. The
defending champs appeared to be over-
whelming favorites on paper. On the
court, it turned into a spectacular con-
test.

The Generals continued their early-
match domination by winning the open-
ing game 15-13. Guilford returned the
favor, 15-11 in the second. W&L took
the third 15-10, and dropped the fourth

15-5.

The two battled back and forth in
the fifth and deciding game. The Quak-
ers pulled the final one out, 15-12.

A tough loss to a heavily-favored
team can do one of two things: crush a
team, or make them stronger.

The team will be put to another test
this weekend as they travel to Maryville
to compete in the Maryville Tourna-
merit.

Water polobsats

0 BROWN, from page

young and deﬁnitely susceptible to
making mistakes of inexperience.

Against the top-ranked team in the
east these mistakes will deﬁnitely cost
you. and they deﬁnitely did.

The young W&L team was over-
whelmed by Slippery Rock, 19-3. The
Generals could not get anything going
offensively against the more experi-
enced squad; on the defensive end,
Slippery Rock’s strength was the key
factor.

This game topped off a roller
coaster-like emotional ride for the

young Generals team. W&L ended
the weekend at a very respectable 2-2,
upping their season mark to 5-2.

They are conﬁdent, however, that
they will bounce back from the two
tough losses and head into the Virginia
State Championships at Richmond on
a strong note.

The Generals will be looking for
their fourth straight crown this week-
end.

The competition will be tough, but
the Generals can go into action know-
ing they have won this tournament
three years straight and have beaten
two Top 20 teams so far.

Classes got you down?

Get or laugh every Thursday from the Phi’s
humor columnists.

  

Best Collection of T-Shirts in Town

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/464-3500

 

 

 

Last Week:

M Soc-Guilford 6,W&L 3 (2-2)
W SOc- Denison 4, W&L 0 (2-2)
WP- Slippery Rock 19, W&L 3 (5-2)

VB- Guilford 3,W&L 2 (3-5)
CC- M 2nd of 4, W 2nd of 3

@112 ﬂing -tum lﬁlti

SPORTS

   

This Week:

Football-at Centre 9/26
M Soc-Behtany 9/26 1pm;at EMC 9/29

W Soc-RMWC 9/24 4pm;at C. of ND-9/26 .
VB-at Maryville 9/25&26 '
WP-at Va. State Champ. 9/26&27

CC-M at CN C 9/26;W at Dickinson 9/26

PAGE 8

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

SEPTEMBER 24, 199 1‘

By CHRIS SANTORA
Phi Contributing Writer

This past weekend, at the annual
Eastern Water Polo Association
meet at Princeton, N.J., the Wash-
ington and Lee water polo team had
more then their fair share of ups and
downs.

At times the team seemed to be
on fire and totally in sync. Other
times it seemed that the strength of
the highly ranked teams that the
Generals faced seemed impossible
to overcome.

Overall, however, the weekend
was an excellent test for the Gener-
als and showed the team is ready for
the challenges of the rest of the
season.

The Generals opened up against
thepowerful,nationallyranked team
from the University of Massachu-
setts. Not many will forget that less
then one year ago the Generals
shocked UMass in the Eastern
Championships.

“I’ve talked to people who have
been followingthe team and UMass
hasn’t forgotten about us,” said head
coach Page Remillard. “They’ll be
gunning for us.”

His prediction was correct as
UMass overpowered the Generals,
15-7. Senior Chris Hagge led the
Generals with two goals in a losing
effort. Momentum was deﬁnitely

Water polo tops
Brown for first time

against the Generals as they went
into an all-important match with
16th ranked Brown University.

The game against Brown proved
that momentum shifts quickly.
Remillard’s troops pulled together
to defeat the favored team from
Brown. The contest was exciting
from the start as both teams battled
back and forth. The Generals led 9-
5 at the break and held off the hard-
charging team from Rhode Island.
W&L pulled out a 14-12 win.

Junior Greg Golub led all scor-
ers with four goals, while Hagge
and senior Andrew Pearson had
three apiece. Senior P.J. Waicus
had a solid game in goal recording
10 saves. This was the first time
W&L defeated Brown.

The Generals’ next opponent
didn’t have the reputation of their
preceding two adversaries, butnev-
ertheless provided formidable op-
position. Queens College was a
tough match and the Generals didn't
overlook it. The Generals took the
contest 16-12. Hagge, Golub, jun-
ior Jacob Berman and freshman
Rich Cober all scored three goals in
the game. Next up for the Generals
was the number one ranked team in
the nation. ,

The game against Slippery Rock
showed the Generals are still very

[3 See BROWN, pgge, 7

Rolex tennis tourney

comes to W&L again

From Press Release

Washington and Lee will play host
again to the Rolex Southeast Tennis
Championships this weekend.

The tournament, which runs from
Sept. 25-27, is usually attended by a
number of the best Division III pro-
grams in the area.

Both singles and doubles titles will
be on the line, as will a trip to Corpus
Cristi, Texas to compete in the Rolex
National Small College Tennis Cham-
pionships.

Last year, W&L’s own Richard
Yates won the tournament and was
able to compete against players from
other Division III programs from
around the country.

This year, another General will be
one of the favorites.

Junior Robbie MacNaughton, who
will be W&L’s number one player this
season, is expected to challenge for
this year’s title.

MacNaughton had an outstanding

sophomore season, and even pushed
Yates in preseason action. This year,
he’s expected to ﬁll the gap at No. 1 left
by Yates.

A number of colleges from the area
are expected to compete. Players will
be coming from: Washington College,
Averett College, Catholic University
and Christopher Newport. 1 ‘

After this tournament, the Generals
travel to Virginia Tech to take on the
Hokies Oct. 1. It will be the Generals
only fall season match.

After the Hokies, W&L returns
home to host the W&L Fall Classic.
The preseason competition brings in
teams from the Division IH level the
Generals will compete against during
the regular spring season.The two-day
tournament gets underway Oct. 10.

Sportswear company that sells merchandise to fraternities and sororities
is looking for a dynamic and responsible person to be a part-time
representative for your campus. As a member of our salesforce, you will
gain valuble experience for future sales positions. Full training and sales
supplies are provided, along with bonus incentives. Call (800) 336-4486.

Women’ssoccer feels effects of small team

Fatigue sets in during Denison; team faces toughest stretch of schedule

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

When the victorious Big Red of
Denison walked off Liberty Hall Fields
last Saturday, they left behind a beaten
and exhausted Generals squad.

The 4-0 defeat, coupled with
Friday’sfatiguing 1-0 win over Hollins,
taught the Washington and Lee women
not just about soccer, but about them-
selves.

“We learned a lot about how to play
through frustration, that we’re in better
shape than we thought, and not to count
ourselves out,” said head coach Janine
Hathom.

The home stand started off with a
perplexing one goal victory over
Hollins in which the Generals out shot
Hollins 31-0.

Despite their offensive dominance,
the Generals were unable to ﬁnd the
back of the net as Hollins’ goalkeeper
made 17 saves.

“We knew we weren't on, we
weren't finishing,” said Hathom.
“[Hollins] hung in and played really
well."

Sophomore Anne Spruill scored the
lone goal on senior Susan Moseley’s
assist 1:52 into the second half.

“Hollins was much tougher than we
expected and is a good lesson leamed,”
said Hathom, who was surprised at the
effort needed to put away Hollins.
“They left us pretty whooped to come
out and play Denison.”

Against a better than expected

Denison squad, the Generals played
timidly and looked veryuninspired and
fatigued.

“We were intimidated,” said
Hathom, “and when you're tired, the
intimidation grows. Even though
they’re a good team, we sort of gave
them the game.”

Denison controlled the ball for most
of the game, outshooting W&L 32-1.
The powerful Big Red offense beat
freshman goalie Mims Rowe twice in
each half. Rowe stopped 12 shots, but
seemed frustrated and out-of-sync as
three other shots bounced off the cross-
bar.

Injuries forcedtheGenerals, already
ﬁelding a reduced squad, to play with-
out sophomore Jennifer Lynch and jun-
ior Kate Stimeling. Lynch sprained
her right ankle and won’t play for at
least another week. Stimeling’s injured
hip should have healed enough to al-
low the junior to play a limited role in
today’s game against Randolph-Ma-
con College.

The Generals will need to be at their
finest for today’s showdown with the
Yellow Jackets, last year’s Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment champions. RMC is 5-0 (3-0 in
ODAC) and has outscored their oppo-

' sition 34-1 this season. Last week's 9-
0 triumph over Hollins was capped by
seven assists for Jennifer Kohler, an
NCAA women’s soccer record. Junior
Kathleen Eastland and sophomore
Marina Jackson will need to shut do
the Yellow Jackets’ potent attack fo
the Generals to a chance.

   
  

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Fiing-tum Phi 6'

Junior Allison Lewis wrong-ioots an opposing defender. Lewis Is ’
one of the many who must endure long minutes because of the
small number of players on this year's squad. Unfortunately for the
Generals, the schedule only gets rougher, as they play somg of

 

their main competitors within the next few weeks.

The Generals don ’t receive a break
as they travel to Baltimore on Saturday
to take on a solid College of Notre
Dame (Md.) squad.

They must then prepare for ODAC
foe Roanoke and national powerhouse
Mary Washington College the next
week.

These four games should be a solid
preparation for late October’s ODAC
tourney, but Hathom admits that “we ’ve .

got our work cut out for us.”

“Although it wasn’t expectedbthc
Denison lesson was perfectly planned,”
said Hathom. “It’s the wake up call we

needed.”

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer rounds the final corner on her
way to the finish line. Schaeffer crossed that line with a faster
time than any other W&L woman In history.

Freshman sh

atters CI'OSS._

country course records

From Staff Reports

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer had
a heck of an opening for the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s cross country
team.

Schaeffer competed in her first
intercollegiate race Saturday, and by
the time it was over, she had broken
two records.

“.1 was definitely surprised with out-
come,” said Schaeffer. “I guess it was
one of my best races.”

Schaeffer finished the 3.1-mile race
in 18:5 3.Thattime was 1:43 fasterthan
the course record and :17 ahead of
formerGenerals runnerCecilyTynan’s
all-course record of 19:09, which was
set in 1989.

Schaeffer led from start to ﬁnish.
She forced the main pack of runners to
keep up with her from the opening gun,
but they weren’t able. Schaeffer trotted
to the finish line all by herself.

Another freshman, Amy Mears, also
topped the old course record by finish-

ing with a time of 20:41.

Sophomore Kim Herring ﬁn-
ished third for the Generals.

Despite the good times, W&I.
fell to perenial powerhouse Mary
Washington, but beat Sweet Briar
and Sheperd.

Schaeffer says she’s not used to
the hills around the course, but be-
lieves she can run better. In fact,

Schaeffer says that she’s rim a bet-. I

ter race.

“In high school we only raced
three miles instead of the 3.1 miles.
and I ran a faster time.”

Well, if she can rim a faster time,
the Generals are looking at a real
possibility of challenging Mary.
Washington.

But Schaeffer says that she
doesn’t feel any reason to put any
extra pressure on herself just be-
cause of one race.

“I’m just going to do the best I
can,” said Schaeffer. “I’m just go-
ing to run my best.” ’

Satin Shoes dyed in 1 hour

Downtown Lexington
3 West Nelson
M-F 9:30-5:30

464-6666
Sat. 8:00-12:00

Don’t miss the Phi’s
special Homecoming
Supplement next
week

 

Get a new image...ln A Flash

 

20x30 COLOR PHOTO POSTER
$24.95 WITH COUPON

 

FROM YOUR 55MM COLOR NEGATIVE

    

POSTERS FROM SLIDES OR PRINTS ALSO AVAILABLE

14 E. Campbell Ave. -

Roanoke

, VA 24013

1-800-537-5227 ,

 

 
 
  
  

v\5*"'.ixc¢° ,“.i-.u

Gg:'=gqIE“

cl”

Approval absolutely guaranteed so

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON ‘TODAY

 

No credit
no security deposit!

Photo & Video Imaging
,Do You Wnt VISA 3. Masercard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the worid...Visa® and MastcrCard®
credit cards.."in your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!‘ and MasierCard0 the credit cards you
deserve and need for— ID-—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST 0RES—1‘UiTlON—ENTERTAi NM ENT-
EMERGENCY CmSH—TiCKE1S—RESTAURAN'i’S—
HOfI‘ELS—-MOTEL$—GAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

 

SIGNATURE

NOT‘!-2 Mastacnrd is a registered trademark d Mastcmhrd intemationnl. inc.
Visa is a registered trader-mrlr nfViSA USA. Inc and Visit lnienational

Set-was Asaucidion.

- STITDENF EERVICESIBOX l792ll»PLANTATl0N.FL 3331 :
 twamvrsno/MAsrr«:RcARDe_> Credit :
Cards. Enclosed find $5 which is 100% refundable if not I
approved immediately. I

I

NAME :
ADDRESS .
CITY STATE ._ ZIP I
PHONE SS.” .
I

I

I

I

.!

  

100°/o GUARANTEED!

Don’t miss a
thing! ,

Subscribe
to the

Phi. .
Send $30
to the

office ‘

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
   
     
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   

7.1: 

The Return of the Homecoming Parade

 

‘ii “me umveasnv l.l¥1RARY
wﬁswueron 8- LEE aw

  

7 RS177

‘J

 

In the Homecoming Supplement:

Memories of Homecomings 50 Years Ago

The Homecoming Court

~ Clip: ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

 iequests
$25,000 more
thanlastyear

EC has an extra $30,000
for allocation to student groups

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

' The Student Activities Board requested a whopping
$74,895 from the Executive Committee Wednesday night,
about $25,000 more than they received last year.

The SAB proposal includes plans to spend $64,265 on
entertainment, about $22,000 more than last year, and
$5,280 on publicity, more than twice last year's publicity
budget.

9 Hobson Barnes, SAB vice chairman and treasurer, said
$9000 of the request would go to get the Spin Doctors at the
Pavilion on the Thursday before Christmas weekend. SAB
has not sponsored an event on that night before.

SAB chairman Robyn McCord said the increase in
publicity is an attempt to increase attendance at SAB events.
She said the effect of more publicity has already resulted in
at increased turnout for SAB interviews.

The StudentBar Association asked the EC for $51 ,925.62.
SBA treasurer Andrew Colocotronis said the money will
help fund 22 organizations in the Law School. Colocotronis
said SBA funds organizations regardless of partisanship or
religious affiliation.

SBArequested $47,999.06 last year andreceived$41,000.
Colocotronis said the larger request is mostly due to an
increase in the cost of supplies.

Contact requested $29,500 from the EC, $7,550 more
than last year. Contact Chair David DeMilt said Contact
expects to get one major speaker and ﬁve or six other
speakers for the coming year.-DeMilt said major speakers,
such as author Robert Fulghum, can cost from $8,000 to

10,000.

s The Graham-Lee-Washington Literary Society requested
$5000 from the EC. GLW Society Co-Chairman Cameron
Humphries said literary societies were the most important
educational and social aspects of W&L for 100 years. The
GLW society was founded last spring and is asking the EC
for money for the first time.

The EC has about $30,000 more than last year to allocate
R) student organizations thanks to a $15 increase in the
student activities fee and a $29,000 budget surplus from the
1991-92 year.

The 1991 -92 EC began last year with $205,408, $14,150
of which was a surplus from the previous year. They allotted
$199,150 to student organizations. The current EC has
$234,000 to give to student organizations.

’ EC President Josh MacFar1and said the EC wants to
insure that the budget benefits the most students.

‘ ‘We're looking to give the most funding to groups that
benefit the most or the majority of the student body,"
MacFarland said. ‘

Budget hearings began Monday and will finish tonight.
The EC will deliberate on the budget requests in a public
meeting Monday at 7 p.m..

In other E.C. business, the first-year law class elected
Kevin Webb,'88, to the EC. Webb said being away from
W&L made him appreciate the Honor System. ‘ ‘One of the
reasons I wanted to come back to W&L was the Honor
System,” Webb said. “lnthe EC, you're inacommittee that

deals with both the undergraduates and the law school.”
0

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 1, 1992

35 ii”

Pledges

THE SNAG

52

Actives Total
40

75
45

76
57
56

66
47

67
54

44
49
71
38
22

38

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Contributing Writer

Fomial Rush ended Sunday with 91 percent
of men who participated pledging a fraternity.

Phi Kappa Psi pledged the largest class, 35, a
result Phi Psi Rush Chairman Steve Johnson
attributes to the total involvement of the actives
in the rush process.

“Everything was unified. The seniors got
motivated and there was a lot of cooperation

throughout the house, ”Johrison said. “I think the

freshmen were attracted to that.”

On the other side of the Rush results, Lambda
Chi Alpha and Chi Psi pledged the smallest
classes, five and three respectively.

Lambda Chi Treasurer Allen Flickinger said
only tearing five pledges will not cause financial
problems.

‘ ‘We're existing smoothly right now,”
Flickinger said. “This won't affect us overall.”

Lambda Chi Rush Chairman John Godfrey
said he would like to see some changes in the
Rush process, but said he is not sure what is
needed.

“I think the present sign-up system is screwy.
Lot s of freshman suicided other houses and
didri’t get bids at all,” Godfrey said. “I think our
distance from campus hurt us too."

Chi Psi House Manager Mark Connelly said
not having a fully renovated house may have hurt
their Rush. However, he said they were pleased
with their three-man pledge class.

“We always say it’s quality, not quantity,"
Connelly said.

Rush left freshmen with a variety of impres-
sions. ‘

Beta Theta Pi pledge Andy Vota said he chose
Beta because he felt the most comfortable there
and had a great time. ,

‘ ‘In my opinion, it’s the best house on campus

246 men pledge in lopsided Rush  

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Other freshmen think the Rush process could
be improved.

‘ ‘I think Rush was too formal and political,”
Sigma Chi pledge Chad Dobbins said. “I went
with the people I knew the best and the house I
felt was right for me,” he said. Sigma Alpha
Epsilon pledge Curt Futch said he felt there was
not enough time to make a decision.

“Rush takes too long, but it’s still hard to get
to know everybody. I felt like I had to suicide
rush in order to make a decision,” Futch 

Even female freshman seem concerned about
the Rush process.

“I like having bands at every.fraternity,ebut I
didn’t like to see my male freinds under so much

 

Pledge statistics as of Tuesday, Sept. 29, obtained from the Dean ~
of ‘Students office. Active totals provided by the Registrar's office.

New rules lead to fewer injuries

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

New Tear Night rules designed to
reduce injuries and alcohol violations
seem to have worked.

According to administration and
security officials, one student sus-
tained a minor injury Friday, the first
Tear Night under regulations passed
last spring by the Iriterfraternity Coun-
cil.

Last year, seven students were
treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital
for injuries including a broken leg and
a concussion. Last spring, the IFC
mandated an alcohol-free period from

5 p.m. to 8 pm. onTear Night when
bids must be accepted

Dean of Freshmen and Residence
Life Dennis Marming said one fresh-

man cut his chin and needed stitches
when he slipped on a dance ﬂoor.

Overall, Manning said he was
pleased with the weekend.

“It was a success for the adminis-
tration as far as personal injuries and
trips to the hospital," Manning said.“l
hope we can keep this track record in
the future.”

Dean of Students David L.
Howison said there were only two
alcohol-related student arrests Friday.
Howison attributed the taming ofTear
Night to IFC President Sam Rock and
Vice President Tom Washmon.

“Sam and Tom met with the fresh-
men Thursday night and told them to
act responsibly,”Howison said. “This
is a student success.”

Security, infirrnary and police of-
ficials agreed that Friday’sTearNight
was a departure from the past.

for me," Vota said. “They get the sweetest
babes."

“I've been here for twenty years
and this was the best one ever,” secu-
rity officer Thomas “Baner” Bane
said. “It was not the wild carrying on
like in the past."

At the ‘Student Health Center,
which last year was filled withpassed-
out students, Nurse Jane Wheeling
said no one came in Friday night.

Lexington Police Chief B.M.
Beard said the new rulesaccomplished
their purpose.

“Things went well,” Beard said.
“Something must have worked.”

One fraternity member said the
new regulations slowed, but did not
stop, the traditional Tear rituals.

“I think after [8 p.rn.], people did
what they had always done, but it was
less intense,” Pi Kappa Alpha Vice
President Walter Todd said. “Overall

stress,” freshman Gretchen Hall said. “I worry
about friends being disappointed.”

it was better.”

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring—tum Phi

 

Drinkin’ in the rain

Magazine ranks W&L 22nd for second year

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi‘ Staff Writer

For the second year in a row, U.S.
News and World Report ranked Wash-

 

 the

 

--.   Phi Staff Writer

most  for your money

1 Last year, the admissions staff got 3,433 applications,
thehighest number of applicants ever. v
’ “It's hard to tell exactly why (the number of appli-

Photo byFaith Truman,

Theﬂing-tu Phi

managed to attract a crowd on Sept. 28.

Students from all over Virginia socialize at the Foxtleld races,
managing as usual to miss seeing the horses. Despite the rainy
+ weather and dreary skies, the races in Charlottesville still

ington and Lee 22nd among national
liberal arts colleges.

“We realize that these rankings tend
to mislead students,” Associate Direc-
tor of Admissions Dan Murphy said.
“Ultimately, the best college is the one
the students pick as best for them.”

Murphy said the survey is impor-
tant because most prospective college
students are attracted by high-proﬁle
schools. Being in the top 25 makes
W&L very visible, he said.

Although ranked 9th in ‘student se-
lectivity, W&L is rated 49th in f'man-
cial resources and 41 st in student satis-
faction. Although these categories bring
W&L’soverall ranking down, the num-
bers are not as clear-cut as they seem.

The financial resources ranking is
determined by dividing the school's

operating budget by the number of
students, according to Assistant to the
President Tom Litzenburg who com-
piled W&L’s statistics for the survey.

W&L’s operating budget is lower
than other liberal arts schools because
of low tuition and the fact that W&L
does not use tuition revenue to fund
scholarships, Litzenburg said. If W&L
raised tuition and used the extra in-
come to fund scholarships, the rankings
would rise.

The student satisfaction ranking is
determined by the percentage of fresh-

 

 
 

.9 "schools in the top five.

xriumber one." , .

 _ ?‘I believe (rankings) do affect
“People read the newspapers."

‘ A" W&L students are still the smartest shoppers aroimd. .
  -W&L “ranked number one in “best buys" among
‘yiliberal arts schools in U.S. News and World Report's .
_ annual college issue for the third year in a row. .
'  W&L’s tuition of $12,330 is $1,865 less than the
..second—rariked school, Grinnell College in Iowa. The
difference is the greatest margin between any of the

ff  l:Associate Director of Admissions Julia Kozak said,
 .-‘ ‘We are not wildabout ranking systems because they are
¢=somewhat‘unpredictable, but it is always nice to be

' ‘ Do prospective students pay attention to these polls? A
them," Kozak said.

said.

said.

cants) has increased, but these rankings help,” Kozak

Students agreed that W&L could only benefit from
the increased exposure.

Sophomore Lucy Cavett said, “It’s good publicity -
especially since it is the third year in a row that we've
been number one in this category."

“Parents are definitely looking for the lowest prices

and the best deal," freshman Julie Sauers said.

According to Kozak, however, “the $1800 tuition
difference (between W&L and Grinnell) is really consid-
ered negligible. It depends on what format one uses to
calculate the total.”

_ ‘ ‘Overall, I think we're getting an excellent education
for the money we're paying,’ ’ sophomore Krista Lindsey

men entering W&L between 1983 and
1986 that graduated within 5 years and
the percentage of alumni contributing
to the Annual Fund. This category is
only wonh five percent of the total
ranking, but paints a distorted portrait
of the W&L student.

“I think students here are a lot hap-
pier than the statistics say,” Murphy
said.

Dean of Students David Howison
said that the retention rate of the last
two graduating classes reached almost
90 percent, which is considerably
higher than the ﬁgures used in the
survey. In future, reports. the satisfac-

tion ranking should increase, he said.

Howison said that in the Princeton
Review, where student satisfaction data
is figured differently, W&L is ranked
as one of the highest.

The U.S. News ranking system re-
lies mostlyon statistical data that quan-
tifies categories such as academic repu-
tation, student selectivity, faculty re-
sources, financial resources, student
satisfaction and freshman statistics. A
survey that asks university officials to
rate other schools in their category is a
small part of formula.

Byusing mostlynumbers, the maga-
zine tries to eliminate subjective evalu-

ation, Litzenburg said.

According to Litzenburg, almost all
of the numbers sent in to the magazine
can be taken right from a financial data
report that is annually filed with the
federal government.

While administrators agree that it is
anhonor tobe listed inthe top 25, some
students are not satisfied with the rank-
mg.

“Everybody we give tours to is just
totally impressed," said senior Evan
Allison, Chairman of the Student Re-
cruitment Committee. “Being 22nd
doesn’t hurt us at all, but I really think
we should be moving tip.”

 

    

PAGE 2

Ellis ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

How many

do you need?

Brotherhood is possibly the most important principle underpin-
ning the social fraternity, as the name implies. The idea is that you
ﬁnd close friends in your fraternity, people with whom you like to
party, hang out, learn and live. Brotherhood is not supposed to be
about division and cliques. ,

A pledge class numbering in the 20s or30s raises serious doubts
about the class’ notion of brotherhood. It’s only natural that in any
group of people division occurs. In a group numbering in the 20s
and higher that effect will be substantially magniﬁed. Rival
subgroups will form. Things will be said behind others’ backs, and
the seeds of deception will have been planted.

Yet fraternities seem so greedy as to be blind to these perils.
Intoxicated with competition, the fraternities have made the goal
of Rush to get the most pledges, with little thought to the chapter’s
future. Everyone wants one year in which the numbers go through
the roof. Why? So that they can take it easy the next year? So that
tliey’ll be talked about all year as the house that got so many
pledges?

Whatever the reason, the welfare of the individual freshman
men is being stearnrolled. They’re being cheated out of the
fraternity experience for the sake of numbers and selﬁshness.
They deserve more than to be one identical element in a throng of
pledge “brothers.”

There is no rule or mechanism in place right now to stop
fraternities from mass pledging. Some fraternities will certainly
argue for a quota system; others will say there are too many
restrictions already. It’s too early to say that one particular change
would be best for the system. But it seems that if fraternities would
take a little responsibility for their futures and the welfare of their
members-to-be, there wouldn’t be any need for a change at all.

Finally, a word to pledges: be cautious in your fraternity
experience. There is no reason your fraternity brothers should not
be your closest friends on campus, but if they are youronly friends,
you have a problem. Don’t limit your horizons. Don’t let the
fraternity become the purpose of your existence. The temptation
to do so will be enormous, but you '11 be letting so much of college
life pass you by.

1941: the year

The dancing and music stopped after Homecoming in 1941. It
would not resume until after the war.

With the U.S. entry into World War II, life at Washington and
Lee changed dramatically. Road trips were abolished to save
gasoline and tires. Football called it a season; they would not play
again until 1946.

W&L men left to ﬁght, many commissioned before they could
receive their diplomas. Many would die, 17 from the class of 1942.

This weekend the members of the class of 1942 will receive the
highest honor W&L can bestow on alumni. They will become
Five-Star Generals.

We applaud the men of the class of 1942 for their brave
representation of Washington and Lee in a somber hour in
America’s history. And for those fortunate enough to be able to
return to W&L today, we welcome you. We hope you find W&L
with traditions and honor in as ﬁne a state as in your day.

Quote of the Week

Continental drift is the only hope for the South to rise again.
— a professor

  

OPINION

,I_:‘::| ('11 Hl".’.!|'.".'-'-"7. -"-_

themuslc stowed

 
 

 
  

The Bing-turn Phl, October 1, 1992

 

 

 
   
  

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

LOS ANGELES— In June 1991,
California was in the throes of its an-
nual exercise of mending its budget
imbalance for the foreseeable future. A
Democratic state legislator scoffed at
the idea that the impending tax in-
crease—the largest in the history of
any state—would cause businesses to
ﬂee California.

Oh sure, he said,

is a nuisance for a big corporation with
lots of lawyers, but it is an incentive to
go east—to Tonopah or Tucson—for
the small businesses responsible for 85
percent of new jobs here.

A study by ﬁve California utilities
says that in the last ﬁve years the state
has lost 668 manufacturing plants or

“They're going to
take all those yachts
from Newport Har-
bor and move them

GEoRGE WILL

to Tonopah, Ne-
vada.”

Try Tucson. That is where the
Hughes corporation is taking 4,500
jobs. When considering relocation of
its missile-building operation, Hughes
compared Arizona and California re-
garding about 50 factors—taxes, regu-
latory burden, utility rates, labor costs,
housing, etc.—and decided Arizona
was superior in all but two categories.

Big economic battleships like
Hughes (and the Southern Paciﬁc Rail-
road, agribusinesses, Hollywood stu-
dios) built California. Now, however,
they are becoming as marginally im-
portant as, well, battleships. And many
large corporations are innovative only
at the political entrepreneurship of de-
vising alibis for poor performance and
wheedling subsidies from states.

Still, as Gov. Pete Wilson says,
“You need some 80 permits to get a
business going in Los Angeles.” That

the fate of ourPOWs. Did
the Nixon administration

Washington Post Writers Group

plarmed expansions. Wilson says he
has a sheaf of advertisements from
states—Utah, Oklahoma, Arizona,
“Hell, even Michigan. That's insult-
ing”—attempting to lure California
firms. ‘ ~ ‘ 7

The fact of federalism is iricreas-
ingly a force for conservatism. Com-
petition between states to sweeten the
business clirriate makes government
restraint and refonn mandatory. For
example, Wilson has called a special
session of the legislature in October to
deal with the fraud-ridden workers’
compensation system.

Originally intended to help workers
injured on the job, it now pays “stress”
claims and makes “stress mill million-
aires” of many lawyers and forensic
physicians. The system costs Califor-
nia employers $11 billion a year.

Hitherto, the system has been

do its utmost to get our
peoplebackfrom tliatfar-
off land?

Beneath the table

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

@112 ﬁling-him lﬂlri‘

Executive Editors . . . . . .5’. . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lcigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers,

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Wl1itney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also front a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising content does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

lurkedthatother question,
unheard but unavoidable

Why did Richard Nixon’s national security ad-

unreforrnable because of the lavish
campaign contributions from those law-
yers and doctors to career legislators.
“What's wrong with this state,” says
Wilson, “is addressed by term limits.”
Limits were voted for the state legisla-
ture in 1990 but will not bite until 1996.

There has been explosive growth of
social spending. With 1 2percent of the
population, California has 26 percent
of Americans receiving Aid to Fami-
lies with Dependent Children; in 1964
one in six did. This has squeezed out
infrastructure spending. Since 1970 the
miles of highway lanes has increased
by apaltry 15 percent. Intlie 1950s and
1960s, 20 percent of that state budget
went for infrastructure; in the 1980s,
less than 5 percent. The result is mil-
lions of commuters creeping along in
congestion, daydreaming about Ari-
zona. Hence Wilson’s squeeze of
spending on virtually all social pro-
grams.

In 16 of the 24 years from 1967 to
1990 California was governed by Ro-
nald Reagan and his soul mate George
Deiikrnejian.

But in 1991 California got, in Wil-
son, a governor who would do some-
thing not done in 50 years: He made
the 1992 general fund budget get
smaller. A $10.7 billion budget gap
was closed without new taxes.

Of course there may be “trickle down
taxation” as burdens are shifted from
the state to cities and counties that may
raise taxes. But this state, having lost

viser support continua-
tion of the Vietnam war
when the two came to

Serious government demands courage’

700,000 jobs since May 1990, is think-
ing that its taxes may build Arizona}
economy.

The 1991 tax increase of $7 billion
was, Wilson says emphatically, “a mis-
take.” California conservatives, already
incandescent about George Bush ’s bro-
ken promise on taxes, pronounced
Wilson politically dead. And now the
new budget of a thousand cuts may
offend everyone else. However, the
stricken field of California politics is
littered with the bleached bones of those
who have underestimated Wilson, the
ex-Marine who is determined to gov-
em in Sacramento the way no one will
govern in Washington, where neithé
the Constitution nor conscience inhib-
its borrowing to pay bills.

F Iritlreeightyears l_982through 1990
Wilson won three thumping statewide.
victories—twice for Senate seats and
one for the govemorship. Today his
popularity is as low as you would ex!
pect it to be for the distributor of disap-
pointrnents. But do not count him out
of the 1994 gubernatorial race, or out
of the 1996 contest for the leadership
of our nation.

The nation will get from neither of
this year’s presidential candidates anyo
thing like the pruning and reforming
determination California is experienc-
ing. So in 1996 America will be four
years older and at least $152 trillion
deeper in debt and may at last he in a
mood for serious government.

©1992, Washington Post Writers Group Q

Kissinger: The Bobby Fischer otwar

WASHINGTON— Henry Kissinger returned to phy, we can now observe Henry Kissinger’s own
the Senate hearing roorrr this week, bringing with grand master role in this tragic contest.
hirri all the old Vietnam horror. The issue on the table:

to Kissinger’s chessboard vision of the globe. It
explains why a quick Vietnam withdrawal was mi
one of the options presented to the newly-inaugu-
rated Nixon in 1969.

“Henry said it was so far outside what was going
to happen that it didn’t help the options paper, and it

whenever the word “Vietnam” is uttered in the pres-
ence of an American: Why were they sent in the first
place? .-

A generation afterwards, the grim record of that
last great American war remains deep in the collec-
tive American consciousness:

——8 million tons of bombs dropped on Indochina,
four times that used in all the theaters of World War
II;

—924,048 communist soldiers killed, 185,528
South Vietnamese soldiers, 58,022 Americans.

These figures, menacing and incomprehensible
as they are, explain our ﬁxation on the POW ques-
tion. They force us to focus on the Vietnam legacy in
imaginable terms, in the scores of POWs and MIAs
who may have been left behind. An astonishing 20
years later, we find in their lives, desperation and
final tortures the elemental wrong of America’s role
in Vietnam: the subjugation of the individual to the
global chess game.

Thanks to Walter lsaacson’s just-released biogra-

Why did he and Nixon believe the war worth, as
Isaacson writes, “the near unraveling of America’s
social fabric, the poisoning of America’s reputation
abroad (especially among an entire generation of
youth), and the spread of the war to Cambodia and
Laos?”

Why, to put it bluntly, didn’t we leave Viemarn in
1969 instead of four years later?

For Henry Kissinger, the answer was contained in
that lone, illusive catch—word: “credibility.”

“Why not withdraw?” Isaacson quotes French
President Charles de Gaulle asking Kissinger a month
after Nixon’s inauguration.

“A sudden withdrawal might give us a credibility
problem,” he answered.

“Where?” de Gaulle inquired.

Kissinger cited the Middle East.

“How very odd,” de Gaulle answered. “It is pre-
cisely in the Middle East that I thought your enerriies
had a credibility problem.”

Yet this highly-prized “credibility” was essential

power in 1969? Why, af- would up-
ter 31,000 Americans had set Nixon,”
beenki11ed,did they pro- Isaacson B 
long the war at a cost of quotes a eneath the table
another 20,552 killed. :(sls:::;1t§'€.l’ lurked that other
T h e question, unheard but
 unavoidable whenever
«c,ed,b,1_ the word “Vietnam” is.
ity.” to- uttered in the presence
§fa‘I’l‘°.‘,w(;“‘ of an American: Why
or s e- _
mand for a were they sent in the first
total vic- ‘P
tory, kept place.
America in .
Vietnam

through 1973. When it was over, he told Nixon that
tliey’d won a “decent interval” between .S. depar-
ture and whatever fate awaited South Vietnam.

The price of that “decent interval" was the lives of
20,000 men, many of them lost, alone and dreadfully
behind enemy lines, where they’d been pulled from .
sight like pawns from a chessboard.

©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

LETTERS

Community made Freshman Orientation a success -

To the Editor,

I would like to take this opportimity
to thank publicly the entire W&L com-
munity for providing such a warm and
enthusiastic welcome to the class of
1996 during the Freshman Orientation
program. Of particular importance was
the work of the Freshman Orientation
Committee, and its leadership, Robert
Wilson and Teresa Williams, and the
dormitory counselors, all of whom gave
uriﬂaggingly of themselves. Planning
and organizing orientation activities
and staffing virtually every orientation

event —from Playfair to airport shuttles
—— made for a very smooth opening
week.

Thanks also go to: Mr. Jim Arthur,
Mr. Randolph Hare, Mr. Bill Radford,
and their staff who saw to it that all of
the dorrnitoriesandotherfacilities were
in irnrriaculate condition for check-in
day; Mr. Jerry Darrell and Mr. John
Taffe and their staff who furnished the
culinary touches for several meetings
and special occasions, including the
Friday evening program in the GHQ;
Jim Farrar, Rob Mish, Matt Felber,

Southern Comfort, JubiLee, and Gor-
don Spice for providing a festive
Alunmi Association BBQ and choral
program.

Professor Sanders’ comments on
the history and traditions of W&L were,
as always, provocative and stimulat-
ing, and the Honor System Orientation
was especially meaningful, with Pro-
fessor Lamar Cecil ’s eloquent remarks
a highlight. EC President Josh
MacFarland and the Executive Com-
mittee insured that freshmen were not
only attentive but were also made more

sensitive to and appreciative of per-
haps the most cherished tradition of
W&L.

Others too numerous to mention
also contributed to the Freshman Ori-
entation program, and this general note!
must sufﬁce to thank you. I am pleased
that the class of 1996 was the benefi-
ciary of such a community effort!

Sincerely,

Dennis Manning

Dean of Freshmen and Residence .
Life

 

    

O

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1,1992

OPINION

Tradition mingles with chauvinism

. ONE GUY’s OPINION

By Chris Citron
.9

Dear Offended Reader,

In response to your letter the other
week: Does this mean that I can’t call
you “love muffin” anymore? And per-
haps just as important, does this reject
allpotential of having youbemy Home-
iﬁrning date?

Speaking of which, it is that time of
yearagain. Time to get out those Wash-
ington and Lee ties, slowly slipping
them around the necks of your dates
and...oh, did I say that? Terribly sorry.
I truly hope I didn’t offend any fe-
rﬂales, particularly sophomores, who
don’t wear ties. That might be con-
strued as...chauvinistic, would it not?
And I would hate to have any chauvin-
istic tendencies appear in this column
because of my obviously bitter attitude
toward females, particularly sopho-
mores, due to, of course, my romantic
failings with the freshmen of last year.

NO, I could not allow something
like that to occur. It would be inappro-
priate. Instead, I would like to demon-
strate my generous attitude toward the
welfare of feminist ideas, particularly
tmse of the sophomores, in examining
the trulychauvinistic spirit of this week-
end which we are all going to cel-

ebrate.

I am truly offended. One would
think that an institution as fine as Wash-
ington and Lee, although reaped in
tradition, would have the decency to
outlaw such a debasing celebration. I
mean, what is the true goal of Home-
coming? To get drunk. Okay, I'll grant
you that point. But what is the huge
occasion around which Homecoming
is centered? It’s not for alumni, be-
cause they get their own weekend. (It’s
called Alumni Weekend for those who
are confused.) It’s not for the football
team because most everyone leaves at
half-time anyway except for the die-
hard fans.

Of course not. It’s all about the
Homecoming Court; the Show; the
Exhibition. It is the reason we go. It is
the reason for the centerfold spread in
this week’s edition of the Phi. It is the
reason for every conversation concem-
ing women until the Queenis chosen.It
is the essence of the Homecoming cel-
ebration and quite frankly, I’m sick-
ened by it.

Every social organization
nominates a beautiful girl to represent
them in an effort to win the “respect
and admiration” of the entire W & L
community. How can such a crock
continue to exist? Why are all these
girls so beautiful? Why isn’t a rather
obese woman with acne and a really

great personality ever chosen as a nonri-
nation? NO, no one would ever think
to nominate someone of that nature.
Why? Because it’ s deep-rooted in chau-
vinism, dammit!

And what happens once these
beautiful
women

raded? On the football field itself,
dressed as nicely as they can, IN
FRONT OF EVERYONE! Are each
candidate’s qualities read aloud on the
public armouncement system for all to
“respect and admire?” No. It is only

their bodies

and faces

are nomi-
n ate d ?
The y ’ re
askedwhy
t h e y
would be
the right
selection
forHome-
c 0 min g
Queen at

W & L, road.

It’s time to celebrate. It’s Home-
coming ’92, Once InACentury. Have
a tailgate. Get drunk. Think about
the nominees instead of your dates.
Think about how you should be there
getting “admired and respected”
instead of some girl from down the

and dresses
that are to
be “re-
spected and
admired.”
It’s abso-
lutely re-
volting,and
yet perfect.
Knowwhy?

Because
ILOVE IT.

s e t t i n g

them up perfectly for a stupid response.
(My favorite last year was “Good na-
ture and good sense must ever join, to
err is human, to choose Alex, divine."
Does it get any better than that?) But
more importantly, their faces are plas-
tered in the centerfold of this newspa-
per just adding more hype to the way
she looks! If it were truly about the
integrity of the women, should not
pictures be obsolete?

And fmally, when the big"

event occurs on Saturday afternoon at
half-time, where are these women pa-

So I’m a
pig. So I’m a chauvinist. Who cares?
Homecoming is Homecoming. It’s a
time to celebrate. It’s Homecoming
’92, Once In A Century. Have a tail-
gate. Get drunk. Think about the nomi-
nees instead of your dates. Think about
how you should be there getting “ad-
mired and respected’ ’ instead of some
girl from down the road. Like this
tradition or hate it. It doesn't matter.
It’s meant to let people have fun. So do
it. And get dnrnk. Yell, scream, and
cheer and stay for the whole game.
Good luck fellas.

_

“ I LIKE  ‘ T’
. . .

ctenmuc ‘mt HooS€
Zoumrlo To Yror lH

. Mrvmlr To Tue Couu-rr:~'/
g'T¢£'RK|N6 ‘me Couammoi

Q

LETTERS

\N€LcoM€ -ro -rue Littoesr
tmsee cuts: on EAKTHF

Loo: p.eooNb ‘I00, %o~lS'.
Vows LOOKING AT vovk
Eesr Fzmnasl

  
  

 Alumnus is concerned with the PC movement

Dear Mr. Wilson,

Thankyouverymuchfor your letter
of July 13 regarding Professor
Handelrnan’s reducing two students’

ades downward 10-15 points for fail-
' g to use “gender neutr ” language
when turning in assignments for her
Tax Ethics Class.

It is common knowledge that our
educational system is under siege from
“multiculturalism and political cor-
rictrress extremists’ ’ — per my recent

rrespondence to you relative to Pro-
fessors Peck and Hedquist in their
threateningtoorganizeboycotts against
advertisers in the Spectator — a stu-

dent publication supporting itself by
subscriptions and advertisements from
local merchants.

Also, Mr. Wilson,DeanBezanson’s,
the Dean of the Law School, “knuck-
ling under" to the “Accreditation
Commission’s’ ’ refusal to accredit our
Law School unless they barred all
armed services from recnriting on the
school campus — the reason given for
this threat was that our armed services
would not accept lesbians and homo-
sexuals. It's incomprehensible that a
creditable “Accreditation Commis-
sion’ ' would in its wildest dreams mea-
sure the govemment’s decision not to

recruit lesbians and homosexuals in
the armed services as a criteria for
measuring the excellence of any aca-
demic body.

This is a most dangerous situation
and, if allowed to fester and grow,
undoubtedly will create a situation at
Washington and Lee that espouses a
political agenda rather than academic
excellence.

It’s hard to realize that university
level academia does not recognize that
allowing a political persuasion to be
the primary measure of their conduct
and action is insidious poison that will
surely destroy their, and our, most cher-

interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

- What qualities does your ideal Homecoming  
Queen possess?

 

 

O‘

 

 

ished possession—academic freedom.

The people mentioned in this letter
should either be severely disciplined,
or removed from their position.

I am attaching a copy of the circula-
tion of this letter and deeply and sin-
cerely hope that some of the recipients
will rally around you and encourage
you to correct this dangerous virus
infecting Washington and Lee, a school
of great tradition.

Sincerely,
William H. Flowers '33
Chairman Emeritus of Flowers

Industries

TALKBACK

 

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assualt(RACASA)
is organizing a training course for
new volunteers. The course will be
taught by Robyn Douglass of
Staunton’s Blue Ridge Sexual As-
sault Center, and will consist of
thirty-three hours of training. Top-
ics to be covered include myths and
facts about sexual assualt, crisis in-
tervention, emotional, medical, and
legal issues, the sex offender, child
sexual abuse and risk reduction.

The course will run from Oct. 6
to Dec. 15 and will include seven
Tuesday evening sessions and two
Saturday sessions. RACASA pro-
vides crisis intervention and victem
support servicesas well as public
prograrrrrning on sexual assault and
risk reduction. Anyone interested
in training as a volunteer, or anyone
seeking additional information,
should call the hotline at 463-RAPE
(7273).

ACLU

The Washington and Lee Chap-
ter of the American Civil Liberties
Union will be discussing civil liber-
ties and civil rights every Saturday
at l p.m. in the University Center
Game Room. Everyone is wel-
come.

Parking Decals

The Security Department has
several parking decals that were pre-
paid over the summer that have not
yet been picked up. Students who
pre—paid their vehicle registration
and have not yet picked them up
must contact the security office in
order to receive their decal. Stu-
dents without current decals are sub-
ject to parking violation notices and
fines of $25. If no one is in the
security office, call the switchboard
to have someone meet you at the
office.

Sbar’s Book

The Bookstore is taking orders
for qfliindegg qua  cby
JonISlbai,"“‘9f,'r%_or'ge€31i’?r)t§¥1 .95
plug  The:cooksra}r1*e eﬁpeclted by
rm - ovem r e co sore
hopes to arrange a signing after the
books arrive.

Freshman Reps.

Freshman class petitions for the
offices of President, Vice President,
and Executive Committee Reps. are
available at Carol Calkin’s office in
the University Center. They must
be turned in by 5 p.m. on Oct. 12.

SPJ

The Society of Proffessional
Journalists, W&L Chapter, will have
anorganizational meetingonThurs-
day Oct. 8 in Reid Hall. Any stu-
dent in any class interested in join-
ing is encouraged to attend. Find
out what SpJ can do for you. See or
call Melissa Cox in the Journalism
Department for more information.

College Dems

There will be a College Demo-
crats meeting this Sunday Oct. 4 at
7 pm. in the Universtity Center
room 109. For more infomiation
call Cottie Miles, 464-6133.

Pub Board

The University Publications
Board will meet Monday Oct. 5 at
8 p.m. in The Ring-tum Phi office.
All members should attend for the
election of officers.

CD&P

Carreer Development andPlace-
ment workshops this week: Inter-
viewing Skills Workshop, Tuesday
Oct. 6, 4-5p.rn in room 109 UC.
Practice Interviews (Advanced sign-
up required), Wednesday Oct. 7, all
day in room 109 UC. Internships
and Summer Jobs, Thursday Oct. 8,
4-5p.rn. in room 109 UC.

Bike Trek

The American Lung Association
of Virginia would like to armounce
the Colonial Virgir1iaBike Trek Oct.
2-4 in Williarnsburg. $25 registra-
tion and $275 pledges. Food, lodg-
ing and entertainment provided. For
details call (703) 434-LUNG.

Who's Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate

,, axmernber of the current undergradu-
ate senior class for selection to
Who's Who Among Students in
AmericanUniversitiesand Colleges
may do so by submitting the name
and qualiﬁcations of that student to
David L. Howison, Dean of Stu-
dents, in Payne Hall 6 by Oct. 9.
Criteria for selection to Who’ s Who
include scholarship, participation
and leadership in academic and ex-
tracurricular activities, citizenship
and service to Washington and Lee,
and potential for future achieve-

ment.

The General Notes are compiled by Matt Hear

Student Body Notice

The Student Conduct Committee found a freshman male in violation of
university standards of ungentlemanly conduct and for urinating in a
female freshman’s dorm room. The following sanctions were imposed:

12 hours of community service,

to be completed by Thanksgiving

Break, a $25 fine and conduct probation.

 

Tom Mason, ’94, McMurray, Pa. - 5
“She has to go to the game, not dress
up, and drink Beam and Coke with the
Fij.” -

Max Dunlap, ’93, Beaumont, Texas
—- “She has to be willing to skip the
football game to hang out and drink
beer.”

Elizabeth Hottle, '96, Richmond, Va.
— “As opposed to my high school, an
IQ larger than her bust size.”

Geren Steiner, ’95, Oklahoma City,
Okla. — “As long as she is sensitive,
intelligent, and witty, I really don’t
care what she looks like.”

Curtis Joseph, ’93, Shreveport, La. Noel Barbour, ’93, Sudbury, Mass.
— “She has to be a good chugger and — “I’d like something other than a
a rock star.” glamour girl, like a real person.”

 

Alcoholism on campus

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Contributing Writer

Alcohol.

It can be the ticket to weekend eu-
phoria, it can become a destructive
habit, and it is one of the most irnpor-
tant problems facing W&L, adminis-
trators say.

“There isn’t a more important topic
on campus. If we could get students
more interested in the [prevention of
abusive drinking], it would make a big
difference,” Associate Dean of Stu-
dents and Counseling Psychologist
Anne Schoer-Lamont said.

In 1990, a survey conducted among
the freshman class revealed that 71

percent of those who responded knew
someone with a drinking problem.

In contrast, 77 percent reported they
could stop drinking after one or two
drinks, but 48 percent felt pressure to
drink.

Sixty-eight percent reported an in-
crease in tolerance, one of the early
signs related to alcoholism.

“I see it in the classroom. People
come into class at eight or nine abso-
lutely reeking of alcohol. There’s deﬁ-
nitely a problem here,” Assistant Pro-
fessor of Spanish Gwyn Campbell said.

Campbell, a recovering alcoholic
herself, said that she has spoken with
four W&L students who had admitted
drinking problem. Schroer-Lamont said
20 - 25 percent of the students she

 

O

The Ring-tum PM, October 1 , 1992

FEATURES

counsels have an alcohol-related prob-
lem.

“The problem at W&L is not so
much alcoholism in the addiction
sense,” said Dr. James Worth, univer-
sity counseling psychologist. “The

ence of alcohol,” Worth said.

Worth said two-thirds of rapes and
assaults occur under the inﬂuence of
alcohol. Furthermore, a female student
who is intoxicated is vulnerable to rape,
unprotected sex or regretted experi-

 

problem ences.

here is that The abu-
a 1 c o h 01 sivedrinkeris
abuse is so also seven
widespread times more
that two likely to de-
things occur. ve1opadrink-
One, stu- ing problem.
dents have Some stu-
no gauge of dents have
responsible misconcep-
drinking; tions about
and, two, who is vul-
w h e n nerable to al-
everyone ’s cohol abuse.
drinking “I think
heavily, it people here
makes a stu- are too smart
dent feel iso- for that [prob-
lated if he or lem drink-
she doesn't ing],” sopho-
drink also.” more Sarah

According to the American Medi- Aschenbach said.
cal Association, three beers at one so- The truth is that 15 million Ameri-

cial outing is heavy drinking, ﬁve or
more drinks is abusive.

“At W&L , three would be consid-
ered light drinking, a six-pack would

 

  

cans are alcoholics and less than five
percent fit the typical description of a
hopeless drunk. In fact, most alcohol-
ics are responsible, intelligent people

be considered standard,” when sober,Worth said.
Worth said. . The majority of stu-
There is a fine .  g . dents at W&L view
line between } G ' j their drinking as a
abuse and alco- 0 . part of college
ho1rsm.Ifaper- life, as a social
sonhasadrink- routine that will
ing problem, it D subside after
does not neces- duation.
sarily mean he ‘ gr?‘The main
or she is an alco- reason people
holic. drink here is because

However, a person
is usually not considered to

I be a problem drinker until he or she has

become an alcoholic.

When the abuse habit becomes ha-
bitual, the body chemistry alters and a
true craving for alcohol develops, a
person has crossed the boundary into
alcoholism, Worth said.

The momentary sense of euphoria
and relaxation associated with drink-
ing can not compensate for the long-
term negative effects resulting from
alcohol abuse.

The results of abusive drinking come
in many forms. At times, the alcohol
abuser is not the only victim of his or
her actions.

“We know a high percentage of
sexual violence occurs under the inﬂu-

  

the school's so hard and
it relieves stress. That's the
main reason I drink Sunday through
Thursday. On Friday I drink for fun,”
junior Kevin Emerson said.

“I don’t call drinking in college
alcoholism.”Campbell disagrees.“I
think a lot of people who think it’s a
phase are kidding themselves,”
Campbell said. “Alcoholism doesn’t
discriminate. I’m scared for a lot of our
students, not a few, a lot.”

Habitual abusive drinking does not
go unnoticed, especially by the friends
of a problem drinker.

“There’s a time when you need to
face up to it. We should be old enough
and mature enough to tell a friend he
has a problelm,” junior Matt Goodwin
said.

‘No thanks’

Staying sober remains the sole option for some’

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Contributing Writer

For a non-drinker at W&L, feel-
ing comfortable in a social scene
centered around alcohol and drink-
ing can be a difﬁcult task.

“At times I wish I drank to get
people off my back. It would
make my life easier,”
sophomore Goose
Garrigus said. Due to
a history of alcohol-
ism in her family,
Garrigus does not
partake in the usual
weekend ritual of
drinking.

“'I'here’re a lot of
alcoholics in my family,
and I’ve seen how it messed
them up,” she said.

The decision not to drink is not
an easy one for her. At times her
peers have questioned her decision
and have placed pressure on her to
drink. “People tell me I’m scared.
They tell me you can control alco-
holism. Usually they're drtmk when
they say it,” Garrigus said.

As a non-drinker, Garrigus has
had the opportunity to observe the
drinking habits of students at par-
ties from a sober standpoint and
has seen a lot of abusive drinking.
In fact, she confronted a friend last

_ year who she thought had devel-

oped an abusive drinking pattern.

“We told the person we were
scared for [him]. We didn't want
the person to hurt [himself]/’ she
said.

Garrigus said the initial con-
frontation was difﬁcult but was
well worth the effort considering
her friend took the advice.

Sophomore Robert Eison says
he recognizes the harmful effects
of alcohol, like Garrigus, and main-
tains sobriety at all times.

“I think alcohol breeds medioc-
rity,” Eison said.

“There’s a substantial number
of students who become mediocre
during the week because of alco-

   
   
   
   

hol,” he said. Eison said he’s been
in classes where he has observed
hungover students or students who
have focused so much attention on
drinking that they have nothing to.
offer intellectually in class.

‘The motto at W&L is study
hard, play hard. People equate play-
ing hard with drinking hard, which

is totally contradictory. Play-
inghard implies beingfo-
cused and enjoying it.’
However, drinking
hard inherently dulls
the senses and in-
hibits physical and
mental capacities,”
Eison said.

So what's wrong
with an occasional“
dulling of the senses?
Eison responded that each
person has the right to make that
decision. Eison has opted to live an
alcohol-free life because “when
you’re drinking, nothing mental is
going on.” '

Also, Eison does not drink in an
effort to avoid the harmful effects
of alcohol. “Why take therisks when
you can take more fulfilling risks?
Put your energy in something use-
ful, something you'll remember,”
he said. O

The decision not to drink was
not a difficult one for Eison, but he
does believeitmightbediffrcultfor
others at W&L. ‘_‘I’m not trying to
be some type of hero, but I'm very
focused and confident about what I
want to get out of life and alcohol 9
isn’tapart of it,” he said. However,
some people were not as comfort-
able with his decision and pushed
him heavily to drink.

“At a party when I’m offered a
drink, I say ‘No thanks,’ and they

say okay and walk off,” Eison said, at

because he does not drink, there is
an elimination of a complete topic
of conversation, which he does not
like.

“It amazes me how much en-
ergy people put into drinking. If
that’s all you look forward to, you .
don’t have much to live for.”

Bryn Mawr Lesbian Alumnae Network
Bucknell University GALA
Catholic University GALA
Duke University GALA
George Washington University GALA
Georgetown University GALA
Gettysburg College GALA
Mannhattanville College GALA
Massachussetts Institute of Technology GALA
Michigan State University GALA
Northwestern Law GALA
Oberlin College GALA
Princeton University GALA
University of Illinois GALA
University of North Carolina GALA
University of Rochester Lambda
Wake Forest University GALA 7 »
West Point GALA
Western Maryland College GALA
William and Mary GALA

W&L

 

WASHINGTON & LEE ..
GAY AND LESBIAN ALLIANCE
P.O. BOX 18906
WASHINGTON, DC 20036

What's missing from this list? F‘

The above list does not constitute an endorsement of or affiliation with W&L GALA. It is meant for comparison purposes only. For more information call (202) 223-4788.

 

    

I

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1992

R

‘A Wﬁhinggvn and Lee Hymn’

Lyrics invoke familiar sights of W&L

 

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Contributing Writer

“In the shadows of white columns,
ﬁe stop to hear the chimes.”

So opens “A Washington and Lee
Hynm,” which some hope will one day
become W&L’s ofﬁcial alma mater.

“I was inspired to write the hymn by
the words and feelings I have about
W&L,” W&L’ s composer-in -residence
Qd Assistant Professor of Music Mar-

» garet Brouwer said.

When she joined the staff in 1988,
Brouwer was approached by Music
Department Head Gordon Spice about
writing a hymn about W&L.

Spice said he felt the need for a song
with themes common to Washington
and Lee alone.

Brouwer said while she was com-

posing thehyrnn, she was also teaching presence of the students. The diverse
the cello to Scott Howe, '93. student body adds to it. I wanted to

Knowing Howe was interested in writelyrics thatwould capturethe spirit
creative writing and poetry, Brouwer of the cam-

FEATURES

PAGE 5

Brouwer had planned to write three
songs about Washington and Lee.

Currently

suggested he try to write a poem about pus,” Howe C 6  - she is looking
W&L that could be put to her music. said. ashlngton and Lee for more lyrics.

Colonnade Crossword

1 12

ACROSS
1 Pollution
problem
5 Out-of-date
10 Flower holder
14 Volcanic ash
15 Lasso

16 Remove the rind

17 Word of regret

3

 

For three Howe said - “I was re-
weeks Howe after writing has a Character  18 ally flattered
satinthebase- the ﬁrstverse, ' and honored
mm of he and present even without the that both Dr.
DuPont Han BTOUWCFSPFN presence of the students. Spice and Dr-
andontheCol- the following . Brouwerfound
onnade com- months work- ThCd1VCrSC Student adds my writing
posing the ap- ing to form a ' worthy of the
propriatelyrics sirltlgarblehynltrxi to 1t- I ‘?]1ante§1.tO   - Wglséiirfilgton
to accompany w 1c won an e yrnn.
Brouwer’smu- notneedanac- Capture t” e Splrlt O t e Ihope my lyr-
sic and capture companiment. Campus , ics remain true.
the spirit of The fin- If things
W&L ished Wash- change I hope

18 Cathedral table
19 Palindromic girl
20 Tune
22 increased in
size
24 Fibbed
26 Gambling cubes
V 27 Lineage
31 Mistakes
35 Baking
chambers
36 Near
38 Once around the
track . . .
23 Shoe bionom ©1A9"9'2ai1g'r:b;Jr’\qee£:ge\d;adServices. inc. 
name .
41 Home for bees ,
42 Piece (out) Last week s answers

 

“Washington and Lee has a charac- ington and Lee Hymn was introduced another student redefines the aesthetic

ter that is present even without the at the Parents’ Weekend Concert in

In the shadows of white Columns,
. We stop to hear the chimes.
Worn steps on which we linger
Slowly yield to time.

 

“A Washington and Lee Hymn”

(Refrain)

Refrain
But when we doubt our future‘s course
Our honor sets us free.
A timeless trust in our Alma Mater,
Washington and Lee.

As the bells ring out the hour,
And echo through the halls-,
We sense in this brief moment
The strength within these walls.
"’ (Refrain)

T

C

3

<3“

..Q_

beauty of the school,” Howe said.

Many people on cam-
pus think the Washington
and Lee Hymn should re-
place “College Friend-
ships,” the New York Uni-
versity song that W&L
adopted as its alma mater.

“It is a pretty tune... it
wasn’t a matter of adopt-
ing the song but rather a
matter of it appealing to
the students’ emotions,”
University Historian Pro-
fessor Taylor Sanders
said.

“College Friendships”
may be the ofﬁcial alma
mater, but the Washing-
ton and Lee Hymn is sung
at the conclusion of all
University Chorus and
Chamber concerts, as well
as official school func-
tions.

“I’ll continue to per-
form the hymn,” Spice
said. “But I’ll let someone
else adopt it as the alma
mater.”

The Board of Trustees
must approvechanging the
alma mater, but no one
involved in the creation of
“A Washington and Lee
Hymn” has presented the
song to the board.

HE  
 S tudent Activities Board

presents

HOMECOMIN G WEEKEND
e$”§§@@@
YANIC

FRIDAY OCTOBER 2, 8:00 PM AT THE PAVILION

  wnvlt E ’s

 

43 Soft drinks

44 Made on a loom

45 Rushlike plants

47 Dregs 8 Small table

49 Ready for 9 First to arrive
publication 10 Thinner

51 Ocean 11 Zesty flavor
movement 12 Fish-eating bird

52 stashed away 13 Alcoholic drink
56 Napped material 21 Excavates

60 Muslim priest 23 Land measure
61 Pointless 25 Transfer picture
63 Old name for 27 Sits for an artist

Ireland 28 Bring out

 

64 Columbus’ ship 29 Struck out
65 Willow 30 Sewing machine
66 Bands in the inventor Howe

middle 32 Martini garnish
67 British gun 33 Poe's bird

68 Cozy places 34 Used up
69 Small opening 37 Beginning

40 Stance ill/01/92

DOWN 41 Without a
1 Shut forcefully residence
2 Masculine 43 Give up, as land
3 Ellipse 44 Expansive
4 Car fuel 46 Berlin citizen 53 Spew 57 Small bottle
5 Fervent request 48 Scuba men 54 Walking stick 58 Therefore
6 Be sick 50 On edge 55 Speaker's 59 Examine
7 Fill to the brim 52 Transgressions platform 62 Seine

VOTE!

Voter registration ends Saturday, Oct. 3. in many
states. Contact your local registrar.

‘tie

 

 

. '.'&}/."-‘x~  -z;«.c. - -. .

 

 

NEWS

 

By Roar-nu‘ WILSON
Phi Contributing Writer

Mudslinging dominated policy dis-
cussion as the candidates for Congress
in Virginia’s Sixth District debated in
Lee Chapel Monday.

When not engaged in name-callin g
and accusations, Republican Bob
Goodlatte and Democrat Steve
Musselwhite discussed issues such as
congressional reform, social beneﬁt
programs and political action commit-
tees.

Attacks by each candidate on each
other’s integrity made up the majority
of the debate. During one exchange,
Goodlatte said Musselwhite had lied
about accepting campaign contribu-
tions from labor unions, first denying
and then later acknowledging the con-

Photo by Lindsay Coleman, The Ring-tum Phi

During a debate in Lee Chapel Monday night, Republican congres-
sional nominee Bob Goodlatte uses a chart to illustrate what he
called out-of-control government spending.

tributions.

Musselwhite said Goodlatte had re-
ceived contributions from Oliver North.
Musselwhite attempted to defame
North, but applause and cheers from

the audience at the mention of North’s
name drowned him out.

Both candidates stressed the need to
reform Congress by cutting adminis-
trative costs. Goodlatte, a strong pro-
ponent of congressional reform, sug-
gestedcutting congressional staffs and
budgets by 25 percent.

“There is too much bureaucracy in
our government. The excessive num-
ber of committees and subcommittees
in Congress results in exorbitant ad-
ministrative costs,” Goodlatte said.

Goodlatte cited urmecessary perks
and benefits and abuse of the franking
privilege as contributing factors to gov-
ernment overspending.

Musselwhite agreed on the need for
reform and said Congress is absorbed
with passing the blame for America’s
failed economic policy instead of try-
ing to solve it.

In response to a question on how to
improve entitlement programs,
Musselwhite said unemployment was
a major issue facing Congress.
Musselwhite said he favored labor in-

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1 , 1992

Candidates trade barbs during debate

centives and job education training to
put unemployed Americans back to
work.

“We've been giving out ﬁsh. Let's
start giving out fishing poles,”
Musselwhite said. “If a man’s hungry
and you give him a fish, it will feed him
fora day. If you give him a ﬁshing pole
with instructions on how to use it, he’ll
never be hungry again.”

Pointing out ﬂaws in government
health care beneﬁtprograms,Goodlatte
advocated Medicaid reform as a prior-
ity for overhauling social benefit pro-
grams.

He proposed instituting a voucher
system to allow Americans to “shop
for their health care” and thus become
“health care consumers.”

Goodlatte also said he favored wel-
fare reform and was against cuts in
social security.

Both candidates agreed that the
power of PACs to manipulate Con-
gress is undermining public opinion on
most legislative issues.

Musselwhite said PACs are a major

  

O

O

stumbling block in the legislative pro- ‘

cess. He also said PAC campaign con-
tributions have made it tougherjfor
non-incurnbents to get elected.

“For too long, the answers [of how
to raise campaign money] have come
from PACs and lobbyists in [Washing-
ton]. We should limit the amount of
money these groups can give to Con-
gress,” Musselwhite said. .

Goodlatte agreed, saying “95 per-
cent of a congressman’s campaign
funds come from political action com-
mittees.”

During a question-and-answer pe-
riod, a W&L freshman asked about the
candidates’ support of Ross Perppas
the man who “seems to have the ght
ideas.”Goodlatte and Musselwhite both
said they would support the election of
Perot as president if he received the
majority of the popular vote in the
Sixth District.

The debate was sponsored by Ross
Perot’s Virginia petition commit ,
politics honor society Pi Sigma Alpha
and Contact.

$5““

 

Photo & Video Imaging

Get a new image...ln A fF|ash
20x30 COLOR POTO POSTER

$24.95 WITH COUPON
FROM YOUR 55MM COLOR NEGATIVE

POSTERS F ROM SLIDES OR PRINTS ALSO AVAILABLE

 

 

Apple Macintosh PovverBook" 145 4/40

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo. and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a r
CorrccText“’ developed by Houghton Mifflin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The
of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 conﬁguration only. All qualifying computers

I

14 E. Campbell Ave.
Roanoke, VA 24013

1-80,0-53 7-5227

. ‘ 3!

 
 
  

—-lust one affair-
women's formal wear for hire

of washlngton, do

Is returning to Lexington on
OCTOBER 11, 1992

for our end-of-season

BLOWOUT SALE! 0
DesignerFormaI Dresses & Gowns on Sale!

Prices start at $49!
Ramada Inn - Exit 195 off 81
4 miles north of Lexington

Noon to 5 p.m. 0 All sales ﬁnal .
Pay by check. AMEX. VISA. MC

For Info please call
202-686-7255

  

The Macintosh

  
  
  
 

 
 
  

880 4/40
988 4/30

 

Apple Macintosh Classic” 11

Get over ‘400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the
Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever.
And if you are interested in ﬁnancing options, be sure to ask for
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student

For further information visit the
Computer Center

in Tucker Hall

and ask for Mac McCloud

or call 463-8844

  
  

$988 *4/40
$1095 *4/so

 

  

Apple Macintosh LC 11

aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and only
at your authorized Apple campus reseller.

‘Keyboard and monitor not included

 

Student Aid Package

$1204 *3/40
$1413 *5/so

 

potgoggoi

 
  

/ I 0

Z Ladles'Shoes, Clothmg

g and Accessories

Z 23 N. Main St. (roe) 463-seas
/ Lexington, VA 24450

   
  

\\\

 
    



  

.9

S

    

Apple Macintosh Ilsi

am.

 

dar

Creator

egisteretl trademark licensed to Apple Computer. Inc. I’o\\'erBook is a tratlcmark of Apple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is ll tnrcleniurk of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dlt'll(lll3l}', Electmnic Thesaunis, and
New Thesaurus. CorrecTcxt underlying technology developed by language Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. Resume'\Y/riter is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark
come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

 
      

 

  
 

  
 

 

 
 

 

6

   

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1 , 1992

 

 Hamseerer
  IINNIVEIISIIRYSIIIE

REDUCED PRICE

  MARKET 
1 GROUND TURKEY I 

  
   

  
    
  
 
 

40-50 COUNT 

MEDIUM

SHRIMP ...... __

 

. TURKEY BREAST OR

}I..o

DIET COKE 0R
c0cA-c0I.A

DELI-BAKERY
HAM

YOUR CHOICE

LB.

Iﬁgtécso TO

     
 

 

  

99

STUDENT'S
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY §EbE§E§ETENTREE5 3/ 99
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER GOURMET ............. ..9.I.IOOZ.
. COURTESY CARD. gzwg 2/ 29
H3I‘I'IS TGBTBI’ BREAD .............. ..LOAVES E
‘'°‘”‘- “W5 SELECTED VARIETIES
YOUR ADDRESS
. §3§’“°J1I$I3I“" TIOLA .................... ..2 LTR. 0  9
1111111
T Ifm I687 so. II

 

TISSUE ........... . .2 FLY 4 ROII PK. 069

IT ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL

 

CHECKS AT OVER 134 $

t'$‘§l‘IfJ:.§’f.'} 
, I ' I
GEORGIA, SOUTH I ,,,W, ,, I
CAROLINA, NORTH I I
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA I 36$ -.°£%1;:- I
AND TENNESSEE , 3;-;°—'°°=  gggggg ,
    _ _ 9;

i|-1---.--

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON $1.00 OFF COUPON

 

51 oo on: I I SAVE $1.00 I
' ' ' %‘§J'6E‘I’<‘a°Il‘5‘e'2‘-'s‘E.?.f .?£‘.€ '
ANY $3.00 OR MORE I I ' ' I
PURCHASE IN OUR I I Th'i mg,“ I
DELI/BAKERY I I 9 Imfé,  I
THIS coupon MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I I I:II3&?~ ofgmoo. I
LIMIT ONE UPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I 5 t“ N I
OFFER 60 SEPT. 30 THRU OCT. 6, I992 2>°¢'?'oI‘... 6,1992 M 2047
COUPON Deli/Baker)’ I I 3429 GROCERY I
if _ was. _I  _ _ 9_I

Prices Effective Through October 6, I992

0 Prices In This Ad Eiieclive Wednesday Se Iember 30, Through esdoy October 6, I992. In Lexington stores
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit uontities. None Sold To Deaiers. We GIodIy Accept Federoi Food Stamps,

I’RI.\'CII’I.liS 0_/I SO ND Rl£'I‘IRI‘I.I\IE1\"I‘IN\'IiS'I‘IN(}

 

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF
THROUGH RETIREMENT.

hink about supporting yourself for
twenty-ﬁve, thirty years or longer
in retirement. It might be the greatest
ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately,
you have one valuable asset in your
favor. Time.

Time to take advantage of tax-deferral.
Time for your money to grow.

But starting early is key. Consider this:
ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at
age thirty, you can accumulate $192,539*
by the time you reach age sixty-five.
Wait ten years and you’d need to set aside
$227 a month to reach the same goal.

%

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

0 I992 Téntberc Iuumact an} Annuity A.r./a¢'ialI’nII/Co//qt Rdinrnun! E/uilizr Fun}.

\

At TIAA-CREE we not only under-
stand the value of starting early, we
can help make it possible-—with fIexibIe
retirement and tax-deferred annuity
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment
choices, and a record ofpersonal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education
and research are already enrolled in
America's Iargest retirement system.
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call
today and learn how simple it is to put
yourself through retirement when you
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.

Start planning your ﬁcture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

/

  We WO nt You
If you're ambitious, ORGANIZED,

fun-loving, excited, exciting,
hard —working,, responsible,

wild, (C If a 2 y and awesome,

then you belong on the

FD Steering Committee

with us.

Val, Chip and VA want to make it the

best ever . . . .
  ‘I Get applications at ‘I Sign up for an inter- ‘I Interview with the

I_<2_d9_:

in University Center.

office.

7

Carol Ca1kins' office viewatCarolCalkins’ Committee Tuesday
or Thursday night.

F

Congratulations Kappa Kappa
Gamma Homecoming
Representatives

—Britney Bates
—Caroline Clarke
—Susan Moseley
—Elissa Taylor

ak

\

  

 

Last Week:

Football- W&L 32, Centre 22 (1-1)
M Soc- W&L 2, EMC 0 (3-3)

w Soc- ND(Md. 2 W&L 0 £2.43
WP- Richmond 6,W&L 10 7-3

VB- EMC 3 W&L 0 E49) , _
cc- (M) 3rd at CNC, w) 2nd atD1ck1n.

PAGE 8

S

@112 iﬁing -tum lﬁlti

PORTS

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

  

This Week:

Football- vs. Randolph-Macon

WP- Southern Toum. 10/3&4

M §oc- at §:O?I(1)0%(e 10/3 0 2

- . . 4 ; l

C’C-(t,1‘t:Frostbur/ st??? C 1 /3 pm
M Ten- at Va. ech 10/3

OCTOBER 1, 1992

Generals

W&L capitalizes on sloppy play by Centre; MacLane rushes for game-high 148 yards .

By SEAN O’RoURiu5
Phi Sports Editor

They say patience is a virtue.

Well, I don’t know how virtuous the Washington and Lee
football team is, but until last weekend, their patience was
wearing thin.

Last year, the Generals went nine straight games without
a win. They salvaged part of the season with a win over the
Georgetown Hoyas in their ﬁnal contest.

At the start of this season, head coach Gary Fallon said
this team was betterthan last year’s and would not repeat the
nine-game drought.

That prediction seemed in serious trouble after the rout

by an especially talented Emory & Henry squad.

But then came the Centre Colonels. Just what the Gener-
als ordered.

The 32-22 victory this past Saturday takes a great deal of
pressure off the coaches and the players. It removes the fear
of a repeat of last season.

“It[the win] deﬁnitely takes alot of the pressure off,” said
junior full back Wilson Moore. “It’s nice to get one under
our belts and get to know what it feels like to get a win.”

A good deal of the pressure during the game was allevi-
ated by Centre themselves.

For the first 30 rrrinutes of play, the Colonels self-
destructed. They made error after error and gave the Gener-
als ample opportunity to take the game over. Which they
did ~

A big problem against Emory & Henry was W&L’s
inability to capitalize on mistakes. They seemed to solve
that problem against Centre.

Fallon believes the team’s ability to capitalize on the
mistakes gave them more and more confidence as the game
went on.

“It plants a real positive seed in their minds. With more
success, they gained more conﬁdence, and conﬁdence is the
biggest part of this game.”

upset Colonels for first victory’

Junior Duane Van Arsdale got the ball rolling with an
interception on Centre’s ﬁrst possession of the game.

The Generals promptly moved to the Colonels’ ten,
where sophomore standout Michael MacLane scampered
over the left side of the line for the ﬁrst score of the game.

On a day that saw almost an inch of rain, it was an
impressive play just for MacLane to be able to cut like he
did.

Centre handed the Generals another gift on their next
series.

W&L’s defense held and the Colonels were forced to
punt. However, Centre’s center snapped the ball ten yards
over the punters head and the Generals took over inside the

A few plays later, sophomore Geren Steiner connected
with classmate William Propst on a ten-yard out for the
generals second score of the afternoon.

Propst did a beautiful job keeping at least one foot in
bounds while getting inside the end zone marker.

“We were able to move the ball well both running and
passing,” said MacLane. “We mixed up the plays and their
defense had to adjust every time.”

Centre’s giving mood continued on their next series of
downs.

W&L’s defense held and again, Centre was forced to
punt. It was an instant replay of the ﬁrst attempt. The ball
ﬂew over the punter’s head and the Generals took over on
the Colonels’ eight.

W&L made quick work of this opportunity. Steiner
found all-American punter, and back-up tight end, Bob
Ehret on a roll-out to his right. The defense forgot about the
6’3’ ’, 205-pound senior and Steiner hit him in the middle of
the end zone.

At the end of the ﬁrst quarter, the Generals had a
commanding 20-0 lead.

“Overall, the team did a nice job,” said Fallon. “The
offense moved the ball around; the defense bent, but didn’t
break; and our special teams played great. They put on nice
rushes on the errant snaps.”

Moore saw the offensive explosion as a combination of

strong play out of the entire offense.

“The line blocked a lot better this week, and
Mac [MacLane] ran a lot harder. Also, Geren[Steiner] read
the defenses better this game.”

Moore was also being modest, because with the loss of
Mark Goglia for the season, Moore had to switch from wide
receiver to full back. Fallon thinks that moved added strength
to the offense.

“We had to move Wilson to full back and he added some
punch to our passing attack,” said Fallon. “Also, since he's
such a big, strong kid, he was to add power to our blocking
and nmning game.”

The lone highlight for Centre was the nmning of their star
freshman, Kris Garrett. Garrett finished with 144 yards on
21 carries. Included in that total was a 44-yard TD run that
was a thing of beauty. He avoided six or seven would-be
tacklers with pure agility and speed. But that was it.

The Generals and Colonels ﬁnished dead-even in total
offense, 281-281, but then again, the Generals didn’t have
far to go to get most of their points.

Steiner had a good game. He had some problems throw-
ing the ball with some zip, but he ﬁnished 11-for-23 for 73
yards, three TD passes, and most importantly, no intercep-
tions. In fact, the Generals did not have any turnovers.

MacLane was the big man on the ground again. He
racked up 148 yards on 25 carries and two touchdowns,
including an incredible 67-yard dash in the third quarter.

Moore added 49 yards as the power back, he also caught
one pass for a TD; Propst hauled in ﬁve passes for 27 yards
and one touchdown.

This week will be a different story, though. Randolph-
Macon pays a visit to Wilson Field to be W&L’s Homecom-
ing opponents.

The Yellow-Jackets pose the same problem to the Gen-
erals Emory & Henry did, they're big and fast. Fallon feels
the team needs to continually improve to beat Randolph-
Macon.

“We can ’t afford to rest. If we want to win more, it means
getting better. Randolph-Macon is a good team and we will
need to play our best to win.”

 
 

 
 
 
 

  
 
 
  

 
 
 
  
    

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Michael MacLane has been the spdk
plug In the Generals’ offensive engine. In two
games he has racked up 219 yards rushing. He will
be a major factor in the Homecoming game against
Randolph-Macon.

     

      

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

The lack of space given to this
week's sports section has forced the
sports editor to create a summary sec-
tion for most of the fall sports. For all
the coaches out there who are disap-
pointed by this lack of attention, the
sports editor apologizes.

The journey begins with the W&L
water polo team. Head coach Page
Remillard took his young team on the
road to compete in the Virginia State
Championships at Richmond.

The Generals entered the competi-
tion as one of the top favorites, behind
the host Spiders.

W&L got off to a good start by
dispatching Virginia 19-12. It was the
young contingency that propelled the
Generals to victory.

Freshman PatMcKennaledthe scor-
ing with six goals, giving him 17 on the
season. Sophomore Derek DeVries
contributed four, and junior Jacob
Berrnan three in three.

Senior P.J. Waicus kept up his out-
standing play in goal by recording six
saves.

Next up for the Generals was an
overrriatched Hampden-Sydney. W&L
cruised to a 14-2 victory.

Again, Remillard’s young players
stepped in and got the job done. Berrnan
continued his scoring barrage with four
against the Tigers. Sophomore Tony
Diederich added three, while sopho-
more goalie David Silvester ﬁlled in
nicely for Waicus by recording 15 saves
and only allowing the two goals.

This set-up the rematch with Rich-
mond. Two weeks ago the Generals

 

SANTA CLARA UNIVERSITY

student, Winston J aeb, founded Califomiaindoor, a rest- ‘
room advertising company that grossed over $100K
while he was attending SCU full time. The company sells
adspace into bars and clubs near campus. The adspace

consists of adboards that have ten adspaces on them. Each

space sells for $250 per month. YOU DO THE MATH.

The company, the oldest of its kind in the US, designed a

very detailed Business Operations Manual and Support
Services Program to help other students around the country
get started in their area.
Call to order our introductory kit
CALIFORNIAINDOOR

408/983-1153

stopped the Spiders in double over-
time, 1 1 - 10.

This time, Richmond came out on
the winning side. Junior standout Greg
Golub tried as hard as he could to keep
W&L in the game. Golub recorded
four goals inthe game to raisehis team-
lead in the category to 25.

But Richmond just was not going to
be denied this win. The ﬁnal, 16-10.
Despite the numbers, Waicus ended
with eight saves.

Nextup for the Generals is the South-
em Water Polo Tournament to be held
Saturday and Sunday at the Cy
Twombly Pool.

Men's soccer is next on the list.

The Generals have had a difﬁcult
time duplicating last year’s fast start.
'I‘hey’ve run into some tough oppo-
nents, and at times have looked totally
out of synch.

This past week, they played two
games that were like day and night.
First up was Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rival, Guilford.

It was a shoot-out from the opening
tap. W&L scored two goals in the ﬁrst
four minutes. Each time, the Generals
used their heads to score.

Senior Greg Williams took a comer
kick out of the air and placed a perfect
header over the outstretched arms of
Guilford’s keeper.

J uriiorlohn Robinson followed soon
after with another header, this time off
a free kick. Generals led 2-0.

Then the defense began to fall apart.
Guilford scored ﬁve goals the rest of
the ﬁrst half, and added one more in the

Do You Want VISA & Mastercar Credit Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards In the world...Vlsa® and MasterCard@
credlt cards.."ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA?’ and MasterCard0 the credit cards you
deserve and need for— lD——BOOKS—DEPAR’TMENT
S1‘ ORES—TUlTl0N—ENTERTAl NM ENT-
EMERGENCY (‘ASH-TlCKETS——RESTAURAN'lS-—
HOT ELS——MOTELS-—GAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

cu llﬁﬁtem

 

I3
10°‘
yﬂls IS‘
Vgﬁgsvggfeaet
on ‘ Approtal absolutely guaranteed so
Hill. THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

second. W&L could only manage one
more goal the rest of the way after their
lightning start. senior Mike Mitchem’s
two assists during the game gave him
19 on his career, three short of Patrick
Brown’s school record of 22.

Powerhouse Bethany came to Lib-
erty Hall Fields
next. This time, it

   

games.
First, the Generals took on ODAC
foe Randolph-Macon. The Yellow
Jackets jumped out to a 2-0 lead enter-
ing the second half. Junior Leigh
Strickler scored W&L’s lone goal in

the early part of the second.
But R-MC
scored once more

was defense that

to close out the

dominated. More scoring, 3-1.
specifically, Last Saturday,
Bethany’s de- the Generals trav-
fense. eled to Maryland,
They shutout to take on Notre
the Generals 3-0. Dame, the College

It was the second
home loss of the

 

of, not the Univer-
sity. Either way,

season, matching W&L walked
the total of all of away on the short
last year. end of the stick, 2-
W&L re- 0,
bounded nicely The Generals
on Tuesday night, were outshot 22-8,

but freshman

beating Eastern
Mennonite Col-
lege, 2-0. Williams and freshman Bill
Garcia, the tallest and the shortest Gen-
erals, respectively, scored second half
goals to pace the Generals.

Williams now has two goals on the
season, equaling his total of last year.
Also, Mitchem moved closer to the all-
time assist record by recording his 20th
on Williams’ goal.

W&L is 3-3, 1-1 in the ODAC and
looks to improve their conference
record against Roanoke on Saturday.

The women’s soccer team also had
a rough week, dropping two close

No credit
No security deposit!

 

   
 
  
 
   

keeper Mims
Rowe stood tall making 20 saves. She
recorded 26 total for the two games.
Today, the Generals welcome
Roanoke College to Liberty Hall Fields.
W&L is 2-4 entering the contest and is
looking to get back on the winning
track.

The volleyball team is having a
rough time overcoming their lack of
experience and their lack of blocking.
However, they are managing to test a
number of very talented teams.

After coming within mere points of
upsetting defending ODAC champi-

ons Guilford, the Generals traveled to
Tennessee to compete in the Maryville
Tournament. They ended at 1-3.

W&L opened up with a heart-break-
irig loss to Asbury, 15-12 in the fifth.
Senior co-captain Leslie Hess led the
Generals with 15 kills, while freshman
Cheryl Taurassi had 44 assists, two
away from W&L’s single—match
record.

Leslie’s younger sister, Catherine,
ﬁnished with 12 kills, while junior co-
captain Tara Burns had 10.

The Generals went on to beat
Gallaudet three games to none; they
loss their last two: to Thomas More, 3-
0, and Union, 3-0.

W&L ﬁnished their week last night
at Eastern Mennonite College. The
Generals were looking to do against
EMC what they couldn't against
Guilford, beat a top ODAC opponent.

It was not to be as the Generals fell,
15-4, 15-6, 16-14. The loss drops the
Generals to 4-9 with Roanoke College
coming to town on Friday evening.

On the cross country front, it can-
tinues to be the Josephine Schaeffer
story. Schaeffer is two-for-two now
with her win at the Dickinson Invita-
tional.

She ran a personal-best, 18:03,
which was the fastest time recorded on
the Dickinson course since 1987. It
helped propel the Generals to a second
place team fmish.

Freshman Amy Mears and sopho-
more Kim Herring both placed in the
top ten to solidify W&L’s ﬁnish.

On the men’s side, Bo Hannah con-

 
 

Services Aseuelulon

Give The Gift Of Life

The Red Cross Bloodmobile
Tuesday, October 6
11 a.m. — 5 p.m.
Doremus Gymnasium

Don't forget to eat before donating.

NOTE Masterard ten regtsteredtradennrkdmasterthrdlntenrdtomllru;
Vtmleerqlstered tndennrttofV|SAl1SA.lnc.andVlSAlnhrmtIonal

100% GUARANTEED!

Sponsored by The Lodge

 

: STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792‘l.PLANTATION.FL 33318 :
:   lwantVlSA®/MASTERCARDG_>Credlt :
l Cards. Enclosed llnd $5 which is 100% refundable if not I
3 approved immediately. l
I I
' NAME \ '
: ADDRESS :
' CITY STATE_ZlP :
: PHONE s.s.# ,
: SIGNATURE :
I I
I I
E. J

 

tinued to reign as W&L’s top mnner.
Hannah was W&L’s top ﬁnisher at
Christopher Newport. Harmah placed
third overall, with a time of 26:41.

Senior Keith Rinn finished 13th
overall and was W&L’s second fm-
isher.

Finally, men’s tennis opened their
abbreviated fall schedule with the Rolex
Regional Championships.

Players from Division III schogls
from all over the area came to compete.

W&L’s top player, junior Robbie
MacNaughton, made it to the semiﬁ-
nals in singles, losing to the eventual
champion, Holden Knight of Christo-
pher Newport.

The big success came in doubl s,

where MacNaughton teamed with '

freshman Pete Hammond to win the
doubles title. The win means the two
will travel to Corpus Cristi, Texas to
compete the national competition in
October.

MacNaughton and Hammond did
not lose a set while winning the title.'rn
the finals, the duo beat Mark Faber and
Scott Pickrel of Methodist, 6-4, 6-4.

The Generals travel to Blacksburg
today to challenge Virginia Tech.

Well, that’s all he wrote. I hope you
enjoyed the nutshell. Next week, a fill
section.

Enjoy your Homecoming, and have
fun at all sporting events, especially
the football game.

See Ya!

Students or Organizations
promote our Florida Spring
packages. Earn MONEY and
FREE trips. Organize Small or
Large groups. Call Campus
Marketing. 800-423-5264

 

GREEKS & CLUBS

RAISE A COOL
$1000
IN JUST ONE WEEK!
PLUS ‘1000 FOR THE

IVIEMBER WHO CALLS!
No obligation. No cost

You also get a FREE
HEADPHONE RADIO

just for calling
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND

RESUME EXPERIENCEH
Individuals and Student Organ izations
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation’s leader. Intcr—Campus I‘

   

Programs 1-8003276013

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   

©

Olﬂlwlmlm t

H

@111: iiing-tum Iﬁhi
Special Supplement

©@@22/‘

 

Publicity Photo

Two up-and-comers
jam for Homecoming

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Contributing Writer

You may not have heard much about
them before, but this year’s Homecoming
band, Widespread
Panic, is on the way

The night before Widespread Panic’s
concert at the Pavilion they will be per-
forming in Memphis, Tenn.

In 1986, Todd Nance joined John Bell,
Michael Houser and David Schools to form

Widespread Panic.
Their debut album,

to the top, according
to the SAB.

“They are an up-
and-comingbandthat
are about to break in a
huge way all over,”
Student Activities
Board Coordinator
Matt Hansen said.

Opening for
Widespread Panic is
GibbDroll,aVirginia
Beach guitarist who
plays with a bass ac-
companist and drum-

Tickets for
tomorrow’s
concert
are $10 at
the door.

“Space Wrangler,”
was released by
Landslide Records in
1988. In 1991, with
the additions of
Domingo Ortiz and
T Lavitz to the band,
Widespread Panic’s
self-titled record
came out on Capri-
corn Records. This
album contains hits
such as “Walkin’
(For Your Love)”
and “C. Brown.” T

mer on the college
circuit throughout the
state.

The two bands do not usually perform
together, Hansen said.

Widespread Panic is based in Athens,
Ga., and is signed underCapricorn Records,
the agency that promotes the popular
Allman Brothers. Hansen said Widespread
Panic has been inﬂuenced by bands such
as the Doors and the Grateful Dead.

Widespread Panic appeared this sum-
mer with “The Horde," a package of bands
including Blues Traveler, Phish and The
Spin Doctors.

Lavitzhassincebeen
replaced by JoJo
Herman.

Widespread Panic was chosen by the
SAB after Hansen coordinated with local
booking and talent agencies.

“We looked for bands that are on a set
tour and will be in the region at the time. It
is one-third of the price this way rather
than requesting a speciﬁc band to per-
form,” Hansen said.

“We like to establish a good rapport
with bands like Widespread Panic. By
showcasing talent before they break, they
will be willing to come back in the future.”

Rivals face off
Saturday on
Wilson Field

By SEAN O‘RoUru<1=.
Phi Sports Editor

Well, it’s that time again.

Autumn is here, it’s football season and
Washington and Lee students are about to
partake in the Homecoming festivities.

It's that once-a-year show when every-
one is glad to see the recently, and not-so-
recently, graduated. A time when the la-
dies amaze with the new fall colors and the
guys impress with the old ones.

Immersed in the heart of this gala week-
end is a football game.

Meaningless for some, indispensable
for others, and, for the rest, merely a side-
show to the half-time activities.

For the players on the field, it’sachance
to impress a captive home crowd. '

This year’s
game features one
of the most heated
rivalries in the Old
Dominion Athletic
Conference, as the
Generals welcome
the Randolph-Ma-
con Yellow Jackets
to Wilson Field.

The rivalry be-
tween the Generals
and the Yellow
Jackets began back on Oct. 17, 1903. W&L
won the first meeting 39-0.

The totals for the last 89 years favor the
Generals, who hold a 20-17-3 edge.

Rando1ph—Macon holds the edge on
W&L since 1980, 5-6-1 . Inthose 12 games,
the Yellow Jackets have outscored the
Generals 256-220.

Some of the games have had huge im-
plications on the Generals’ seasons.

In 1981, the Generals won their first
Old Dominion Athletic Conference title
under Gary Fallon. The Generals went 8-2
that year, 4-1 in the ODAC. Their only loss
in conference play was to Randolph-Ma-
con in a heart-breaker at Day Field, 13-10.

In 1984, the Yellow Jackets crushed the
Generals 49-9. It was one of the worst
defeats W&L has suffered under Fallon.

The Generals got revenge in 1985, heat-
ing Randolph-Macon 31-19. The win pro-
pelled W&L to its second ODAC title
during Fallon’s tenure,

During the past two years, the Yellow
Jackets have won by an average of 27-7.

That does not diminish the intensity of
the rivalry, however. In fact, it only adds
fuel to an already out-of-control ﬁre.

 

 

PAGE 2

   

Sophomores Aprll Powell, Melissa Wolfe
Pl Beta Phl float tor this weekend's parade.

  

.: 3“. A
Photo by Mallory Meyers, 7'he Fling-tum Phi

and Plna Benlncasa W0l'k on the

 

Decorations, parade return
as Homecoming traditions

By CATHY MCCULLOUGH
Special to The Ring-tum Phi

When one thinks of Washington and
Lee, one thinks of traditions such as the
Honor System, the Speaking Tradition,
Mock Convention and Fancy Dress.

But all of these traditions, with the
exception of the Honor System, have
experienced absences from the W&L
campus at some time. Forttmately the
students and faculty did what they could
to revive these customs.

And this year, yet another W&L tradi-
tion will be resurrected: the Homecom-
ing Parade.

Beginning at 11 a.m. on the day of the
Homecoming game, the parade will be-
gin its course at Brewbaker Field, make
its way down Main Street and Washing-
ton Street, and then proceed out Route 60
ending at the Liberty Hall Ruins. All
campus organizations have been invited
to submit a ﬂoat or convertible to partici-
pate in the parade.

Although this year’s parade will have
a different format from the parades of
long ago, organizers hope it will generate
spirit and enthusiasm.

The 1992 Homecoming parade will
combine the ideas of fraternity decora-
tions which began in the 1930s, with the
idea of the students marching through
town before the game, a tradition that
began in the 1940s.

Former Professor of Politics William
Buchanan, who graduated from W&L in
1941, recalls lavishly decorated frater-
nity houses. Chicken wire, colored crepe
paper, and electric lights adorned the
houses.

The night before the game, the stu-
dents gathered in front of Doremus gym-
nasium for a rally, which was followed
by an informal dance.

At this dance the freshmen were re-
quired to wear green bow ties. The color
showed their naiveté and “innocence, and
the bow ties could “designate a freshman
like nothing else” reported the 1934
Homecoming issue of TheRing-tum Phi.

Former Professor of English Sydney
Coulling, '46, remembers the Pajama
Parade. The first year students had to
march from the gym through town carry-
ing torches in their pajamas. In cold
weather, the freshmen had to wear their
coats and ties underneath their sleep
wear.

The parade route took the freshmen
back to Doremus. With their torches, the
freshmen would light a bonfire in front of
the gym. A pep rally then followed.

Once the pep rally came to a close, the
students toppedofftheirevening by crash-
ing the State Theater for a free movie.
The theater received so much business
from the students during the school year
that they allowed this one indulgence.

In the late 1950s, the fraternity deco-
rations and Pajama Parade were still part
of the Homecoming agenda. The fresh-
men not only looked forward to the week-
end to prance through town, but they also
anticipated the football game.

Professor of History Holt Merchant,
’61, said that when he was at W&L the
fate of the Homecoming game was of
particular importance to the freshmen. If
the Generals won, they no longer had to
wear their beanies; they could burn the
hats after the game.

In the late 1960s, some of the other
W&L traditions died out for a while, and
so did those of Homecoming.

The idea of restoring the Homecom-
ing parade arose from the huge success of
the Mock Convention parade in March.
Members of Kathekon, the student alumni
association, have been working with stu-
dents and city officials to organize the
event.

Campus organizations, fraternities and
sororities, the local school bands, fire
departments and even past Homecoming
queens will participate in the parade.

The winner of the ﬂoat competition
will be announced during half-time of the
Homecoming game, along with the

‘Homecoming queen.

The Alumni Office plans to present a
three-foot trophy adorned with a mink at
the base to the winning organization.

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1, 1992

   

I Calyx Photo

when the Generals played the Sewanee Tlgers again for Home-
comlng In 1967, the Lambda Chl Alphas used poet Wllllam Blake's
phrase as thelr slogan.

Calyx Photo

Phl Psl’s entry won them the house decorating award In 1966.

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1, 1992

PAGE 3

/ Schedule of Events P

Friday, Oct. 2

9 a.m. Bi-Armual Meeting of the Alumni
Board of Directors, Northen Auditorium

10:30 a.m. Campus Tours, Alumni House

11 am. -5 p.m. Five-Star Generals and
Homecoming Registration, Alurrmi House

12:10 p.m. The John Randolph Tucker Lecture,
Professor Morton J. Horowitz, Lewis Hall

12:30 p.m. Luncheon, Front Lawn

2 p.m. ACAP Symposium “Recapping ACAP”,
Game Room

2 p.m. Bi-Annual Meeting of the W&L Law Coun
cil, Lewis Hall

2 pm. Five-Star Generals/Homecoming Seminar,
Lee Chapel

3:30 pm. ACAP Symposium - “ACAP Works:
Student and Alumni Reflections on ACAP,”
University Center

6 pm. Reception for all Alumni honoring the Five-
Star Generals, the 1992 Homecoming
Queen court and ACAP volunteers,
Alumni House

7 p.m. Five-Star Generals Reunion Banquet, Evans
Hall

8:30 p.m. Concert W&L Choral Fmsembles, Lenfest
Center

10 p.m. Concert sponsored by the Student Activities

K

Board, Student Activities Pavillion J

HOMECOMIN G

Mink trophy recalls VMI rivalry

By ALISHA JOHNSON
Phi Contributing Writer

Sometimes rummaging through a
dusty Alumni House attic can do strange
things to one’s mind.

Maybe that's not the case with Assis-
tant Alumni Director Rob Mish and
Alumni Staff Associate Matthew Felber,
who ascended the attic’s stairs to find that
perfect “gag” prize for the winner of this
weekend’s Homecoming Parade ﬂoat
competition a moosehead.

Mish said while in search for the
moosehead, he and Felber changed their
minds.

Ideas for potential awards degener-
ated from the moosehead to a “big tacky
trophy” with something “W&L about it.”A stuffed mink
was their ﬁnal idea.

The two-tiered trophy is three feet high and displays a
18-inch stuffed mink wearing a W&L “Class of 20??” T-
shirt.

Nearly 30 W&L organizations plan to participate in the
parade. Each ﬂoat will be judged on how well the creators
demonstrate originality/creativity, design/execution and

 

spirit.

Tom Hooper, president of Kathekon
and grand marshall of the parade will
present the mink trophy to the winning
organization, but it will be on pennanent
display at the Co-op/Bookstore, Mish said.

Each year's Homecoming parade float
competition winners will have their names
engraved on the trophy.

The winning organization will receive
a smaller trophy to keep.

History Professor and University His-
torian Taylor Sanders said the story of the
mink at W&L goes back to the 1830s,
when VMI was founded.

He said Washington College students
would call the cadets “rats” because they
looked “gray and scruffy” in their gray uniforms, and the
VMI cadets nicknamed Washington College students
“minks” because they were “sleek and mean.

”I'he cadets, who had a curfew of about 1 l p.m. on the
weekends, were resentful that Washington College stu-
dents would wait at the gate and pick up the cadets’ dates
when they went in.

“Minks are awful animals,” Matt Felber said, grinning.
“They're called thieves of the night.”

 

s<»A»L<»Ei

HOMECOMING SPECIALS
SUITS —
SPORT COATS —

o o 0 or o 0
Check our new Timberland

TIES -

College Town Shop
111 W. Nelson St.
Since 1926 j 

AMEX - Mastercard - Visa, - House Charge ._

20% OFF
20% OFF

&
Ruff Hewn

at Great Prices

@112 News-($213211:

Custom Printing Department
FAX: 703/464-6397

  
 
 

 

 

Famous catalog brand
ladies'and men ’s clothes
at terrific discounts! "'

  I F

 

O L7 T I, F, '1‘ S
30.SouthIlalnStroetDowntown|.audngton

-Mon.-sat. 9:30-5:30 433-9730

    

Page 4

 

 

The Ring-tum PM, October 1, 1992

Alpha Phi Omega
Susan Rucker, W&L ’93

Escort: MatthewAppel

Comment: “I feel any
woman at W&L is worthy of
being Homecoming queen and
I'm honored to represent Alpha
Phi Omega on the court.”

 

Chi Omega

Patricia Perdigon,W&L ‘9§

Escort: Cary Potts

Comment: “I’m proud to
be amember of the W&L com-
munity and I would be pleased
to represent this university.”

    

Beta Theta Pi

Kirsten Fxgenbright, W&L
'94

Escort: Andrew Taggart

Comment: “Istrivetobean
active member of the W&L
commtmity.bothacadernically
andsocialhsolwouldbeproud
to represent W&L in any way
possible.”

 

Minority Students Asso-
ciation

Frankie Jones, W&L ’94

Escort: Curtis Joseph

Comment: “A Homecom-
ing queen should embody and
reﬂect those qualities which
W&L holds true. These quali-
ties include trustworthiness,
honesty, diversity, and com-
passion. Ifeel that I embody
these qualities and can repre-
sent W&L as Homecoming
queen.”

 

Kappa Kappa Gamma

Britney Bates, W&L ’93

Escort: Casey Pipes

Comment: “My love for
this place could only be ex-
ceeded by the honor I would
feel in representing it.”,

    

International Club
Olga Kmyshenkova, W&L
Escort: John Branurn

Comment: “My best advan-
tage is that in my heart and

‘ mind I have two great cul-

tures, Russian and American.
I can compare them and take
the best features of each one.
The most impressive charac-
teristics I found here are trust
and openness among teachers
and students of W&L.”

 

Kappa Alpha Theta
Amy Roberson, W&L '93

Comment: “I think that al-
most any of the candidates
would be a good choice, and I
just hope that everyone has a
good weeken .”

 

Chi Psi .

Betsy Kleiner. W&L '93

Escort: Rick Scherer

Comment: “l'mavery ac-
tive member of the W&L
community and I feel that I
am able to represent every
strataof the studentbody. I'm
extremely flattered to have
been chosen to be a pattof
this event and I would like to
wish the winner all the best."

 

Student Bar Association

Katherine Londos, W&L
third-year law

Escort: Mark Cathy

Comment: “I’m pleased to
represent the Law School at
Homecoming this year with
my escort Mark Cathy.”

 

    

Maveric
Elizabeth Currall, W&L ’93

Comment: “Becoming
Homecomingqueenismyhigh-
est ambition in life and because
like all Miss America contes-
tants, I will strive for world
peace.”

  

Kappa Sigma
Elizabeth (

Hollins College ’
Escort: Hampr
Comment: Not

comment.

Why would you be a good
Homecoming queen?

Pi Beta Phi

Carrie Baker, W&L ’95

Escort: Ty Tydings

Comment: “Because Ihave
a strong family background
and I think it'd be a wonder-
ful experience torepresent my
family as well as W&L as
Homecoming queen.”

    

Kappa lha
Elissa Taylor, W&L '93
Escort: Alan McKnight

Comment: “I'm ﬂattered to
have been asked to represent
KA and would be proud to

represent W&L.”

    

Sigma Chi
Heather An:
'94
Escort: Bill A
Comment: “
always wanted
MacFarland."

 

g-tum PM, October 1, 1992

 Slgm  H i : mbda   __ _ . vs I S ' hl Clta 
Elizabeth Crunbaugh, V JeanGatje  993 ' ,  Murray R0binSOH,
Hollins College '93 Esoomshahnon Smith  University of Alabama
Escort: Hampton Johnston _ .  Comment: «I have enormous ‘ _ V Escort: Jeremy Milling
Comment: Not available for ‘ J , " respect for the traditions of W&L ‘ t - Comment: Did not wish to

°°mm°m' . A and I am honored to be part of the °°mm°m-

Homecoming court as a repre-
sentative of Lambda Chi Alpha.”

Phi Gamma Delta Phi Kappa Psi
’ Jenny Dallam, W&L ’93 Susan Moseley, W&L ’93
Escon; Fred Haring i Escort: David DeMitt
Comment: “My invo1ve- V Comment: “I’m involved‘
men: in and out of me class- » in a lot of different aspects of
room has inszjned in me the A this school and most of all, I

traditions and values of W&L. ‘ 10V€ it-”
I’m excited for this opportu-

nity and would be honored to

represent these qualities to

the student body.”

to take part in this W&L tradition.”

-‘ Phi Kappa Sigma Pi Kappa Alpha
Caroline Heyward Clarke, Susan Komonytsky, W&L ’94
4 _ W&L '93 Escort: Andrew Pearson
, A . Escort: Chris Boggs Comment:“l’m honored to be
J . Comment: “I’m just look- ‘ ' . ‘ - considered a representative of
/ - ing forward to the weekend.” ’ Washington andLeeandI’m proud

1d you be a good
0 ming queen?

Pi Kappa Phi , Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Amy James, W&L »93 _ ‘ Ashley Myler, W&L '94
Eseom Doug Maﬁa _ i Escort: John Kalmbach
“Since I'm a senior l‘ve C°m_m°m“‘I’mag°°dT°P‘
spent enough time at W&L to 9 ‘ resentatrve of the values and
represent itgv committed to honesty, integ-
rity, hard work, and having a
good time."

Sigma Chi Sigma Nu - - -
Heather Aussiker, war. Susan Elizabeth Mahan,  "V’.,"&L»93
'94 W&L '95 Escort: Jolm Flippen
Escort: Bill Avoli Escort: Jason Dunn Comment «I am eommil,
Comment: “Because I’ve _ Comment: “Basically,I'm ,ed,ew&L and have done my
always wanted to kiss Josh Just thrilled to be nominated besttodisplaythisthroughmy
MacFarland." _ and represent Sigma Nu.” involvement in many differ-
ent campus activities. It is an
honor to represent Sig Ep,
brothers who exemplify lead-
ershipandcommitmentwithin
this univeristy. Go Generals!"

 

 
 

PAGE 6

Five-Stars
return and
remember

By KIMBERLY MARco'1'r
Phi Contributing Writer

A pep rally, freshman torch light pa-
jama parade and crashing the State Theatre
are some of the traditions the newest Five-
Star Generals will remember about their
undergraduate Homecomings when they
return to campus this weekend.

This year, members of the class of 1942
will join the distinguished ranks of the
Five-StarGenerals,anhonorheldbya1un1ni
who graduated more than 50 years ago.

Joining the Five-Stars in this year’s
Homecoming activities will be those at-
tending a Cluster Reunion for alumni who
have graduated since 1989. Planned ac-
tivities include a luncheon on the Front
Lawn Friday afternoon, a special Home-
coming seminar given by professors Holt
Merchant and Taylor Sanders, and a recep-
tion to meet the Homecoming queen nomi-
nees at the Alumni House.

For the Five-Stars, this schedule seems
tame when compared to the one they kept
during their undergraduate days.

“It was the bi g—time fall deal,” says
Lauren Wild, ’38, about Homecoming.

The first event of Homecoming week-
ends 50 years ago was a Friday night pep
rally in Doremus. After the pep rally, the
freshmen had to panicipate in a torch light
pajama parade. Former W&L professor
Sidney Coulling, ’48, said, “Since proper
dress was required of Washington and Lee
men at all times, freshmen would put their
pajamas on over their coat and tie.”

Then, with freshman beanies and
torches, they would parade down main
street behind the W&L band. The parade

Pass You By!

Comesee UsFor’Ihe

Lowest Fares!

We provide toll-free access nationwide

0 Free ticket delivery

-lreevinandlhuportasistence

0 Free convenient

0 Free $100,000 Travel Insurance _- _
463-2197 A *

 

16 West W St..

  

£474‘ 5 i I : a :: 0 I
BOOK NOW!
Don't Let The Holidays

 

W&L dances to the Tony Pastor '- v

Orchestra in 1941

always ended at the State Theatre on Nelson
Street, when hundreds of W&L men re-
fused to pay admission and walked into the
theater to see a free show.

“Of course, the show they played for
Homecoming usually wasn’t worth pay-
ing for,” Coulling said.

The next Homecoming event would be
the first of three dances held during the
weekend. The women who were expected
to arrive in Lexington as dates would be
listed in the Homecoming issue of The
Ring-tum Phi by fraternity house. For the
class of ’42’s last undergraduate Home-
coming, the Phi reported, “The Phi Delts
lead the list with thirty-three visiting girls.”

The Homecoming dances were led by a
“ﬁgure,” in which a lady and her escort

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1 , 1992

 

were announced, then waited in a pre-
scribed ﬁgure for the announcement of the
other ladies. Friday night was the Sopho-
more Prom.

On Saturday morning, the fraternity
houses would be judged for the decora-
tions they had erected to support the “Big
Blue Eleven,”a.ka. Generals football team.

“No one would ever miss the football
game,” Wild recalled. The attendance of-
ten ran as high as 8,000. The Generals ’ fate
in the Homecoming game was of particu-
lar interest to freshmen, who could toss
their beanies for good if the Blue won.

After the game, it was time to dance
again at the post-game tea dance. Saturday
night brought the Cotillion Club dance,
which featured the announcement of the

Phi Gamma Delta's hospltal
takes thlrd in the 1937 house
decoration contest.

 

winner of the decorations contest.

In 1941, Kappa Sigma took top honors
for their display. The 1941 dance was also
broadcast over the Mutual Broadcast Sys-
tem, and University President Francis P.
Gaines addressed alumni who could not
make it back to Lexington.

The '41 Homecoming was declared the
best yet, a perception sharpened in the
memory of its participants by President
Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Pearl Harbor ad-
dress and the changes it brought.

The class of 1942 lost 17 members to
fighting in World War 11. Many students
were commissioned immediately and did
not return for their diplomas until the mid-
1940s. But return they did, as they will
again this weekend.

  
  

  
  
   

Happy
Homecoming!

REPRODUCTION
JEWELRY

 

 

Dirty House?
Dirty Bathroom?
Dirty Apartment?
Call Linda at 261-4774.

She can clean for you!

 

This Weekend, Bring
Home So_m_e Take-Out.

  
  

  

VA 24450 R

  
  

SOII

‘= wrist in The Homestead

' 'l‘enEIdNelsonI463-9841

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1, 1992

Party, Party, Party

Students Welcome alums
with cocktails and bands

Student organizations have scheduled the following
events for Homecoming weekend:

Beta Theta Pi: A16 p.m. on Friday night, the house
will serve cocktails. Before the football game on Satur-
day, Beta will tailgate in the parking lot. There will beapig
roast atthehouse at4 p.m., and at9p.m. Beta and Phi Delta
Theta will host a band party.

Chi Psi: Cocktails will be served at the house at 6 pm.
on Friday. The following day in the parking lot, the
brothers will tailgate. A barbecue and cocktail party will
start at 5 pm. at the house, and at 9:30 p.m. the house will
host Serious Business.

Kappa Alpha: The Borden Road apartments will host
apre-concert party at 7p.m. On Saturday, KA will tailgate
in the parking lot before the game. Following the game, a
party will take place at the KA River House. That night in
the Boiler Room, the Grandeurs will play from 9 p.m.- 1

p.m.

Kappa Sigma: Before the concert, Fishbait will host a

pre-party at 8:30 p.m. Until half—time Kappa Sig will
— r . ., L . *5 .

 
  

    

 

 

   
 

 

 

PAGE 7

HOMECOMIN G

tailgate in the parking lot
and at 3 p.m. cocktails will
be served at the house. The
Dave Matthews Band will
start off the nighttime party
at 9 p.m.

Lambda Chi Alpha:
There will be cocktails at the house at 10 am. prior to the
parade and shortly after Lambda Chi will tailgate in the
parking lot. An alumni reception will follow the game and
Idol Image will play at 9 p.m.

Phi Delta Theta: Friday afternoon cocktail party at the
house. Saturday afternoon tailgate party before the game.
The Dean Dollar Band on the back porch after the game.
Saturday night there will be band party at Beta.

Phi Gamma Delta: Following the tailgate party in the
parking lot and football game on Saturday, Fiji will have
cocktails at the house at 6 p.m. Beluga Whales will play at
9 p.m.

Phi Kappa Psi: Friday afternoon Phi Psi will have a
party at the Polehouse. The fraternity will tailgate before
the football game and will have a cocktail party from 6
p.m. to 8 p.m. That evening, Phi Psi will host Mike
Marshall.

Phi Kappa Sigma: Cocktails will be served at 5 p.m.
at the house prior to the concert on Friday. In the parking
lot before the game Phi Kapp will tailgate. At 9 p.m. with
SAE, Soul Hat will play at SAE house.

Pi Kappa Alpha: The Penthouse will serve cocktails
on Friday at 7 p.m. and tailgate on Saturday in the parking
lot before the game. Following the game PiKA will have
a cocktail party at the house with Awakenings beginning
at 10 p.m.

Pi Kappa Phi: From 3 p.m. to 7 pm. the house will
have a skeet shoot/barbecue at the Ranch. A hall crawl will
begin at 9 p.m. at the house. After tailgating at the football

  

 

game, the Megaphonics will play at 10 p.m.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Friday afternoon will be a
cookout and cocktail party at Hooterville. The SAEs will
tailgate before the football game and go to Phi Kappa
Sigma afterward. Following a buffet dinner at 5 p.m. back
at the SAE house, Soul Hat will play Saturday night.

Sigma Chi: Following the tailgate party and football
game on Saturday, “The Posse” will play at the cookout at
the house at 4 p.m. Following the cookout at 9 p.m., The
Convertibles will play at the band party.

Sigma Nu: Before the game on Saturday the house will
tailgate in the parking lot. From 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. there will
be cocktails at the house and Picture This will play starting
at 9 p.m. The house will host a brunch on Sunday starting
at 11:30 a.m.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Starting at 8 p.m. the house will
host a pre—concert party. The following day Sig Ep will
have pre-garne cocktails at 12 p.m. and will tailgate
following the cocktails. The band party with Everything
will begin at 9 p.m.

Mavericks: The Mavericks will tailgate before the
football game and have a Homecoming dance Saturday
night at the Pavilion.

Kappa Alpha Theta: An informal tailgate party will
begin at 2 p.m. on Saturday.

Chi-Omega: A tailgate party will begin at 12 p.m. on
Saturday.

Kappa Kappa Gamma: A tailgate party at Liberty
Hall will be held before the football game.

College Democrats
Proudly support -
W&L Homecoming

People First
Clinton/ Gore

’92

K CRAFTS PLUS, INC. \

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 s. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

    

LEXINGTON ‘ \nRQ\§\

Hours: 11. a.m..—1 :30 a.m.

Monday Night Football

Starts at 6 p.m.

 

PAGE 8

HOMECOMING

 

‘ O O '0 oz

The Rlng-tum Phl, October 1 , 1992

   

(ﬁght Owl QV(usic

New & Used CDs 0 Cassettes 0 LPs
Come visit us at our

NEW LOCATION!

25 8. Jefferson St., Lexington

(between The Palms and Domino's)

 

Alvin-Dennis

Welcome W&L Alumni

-Sero Shirts

—Sweaters by Woolrich, Izod, and J .S. Cable
-Outerwear by Woolrich and Forest Club
-Corduroys

 

 -Red Wing Boots
, _ EXTENDED HOURS: _ _ -W&L Belts, Ties, Keychains,
Mon. thru Fn. 10.30 am - 7.00 pm Sat. ‘til 5.00 pm Visors, and Dog Collars
-Duckhead Khakis
WELCOME ALUMNI -Shoes by Bass, Walkover,
and Johnson & Murphy

—100% worsted wool tuxedos

—Fancy cummerbund and tie sets

-Ray-B ans

Place You;  Now Alumni Special _
P0, our Exclusive G0,d_P,ated All sportcoats and suits
W&L Colonnade 20% 0”
Chmtmas Ornament 102 W. Washington St.
 . 463-3333
BORN y-BRED, INC. open this Sunday at 10:00 a.m.
1L6E)§j'§I3(jT:§Vr;§3HV'f3RGGT;>N3j Asgggﬁsj) VISA 4 Mastercard Student Charge
The Palms welcomes the W&L A [U m n i,
students with good food and _
Watch for our Fall Specials. Keep up with all the
Monday Night Football Specials happenmgs at your al ma
Nightly Dinner Specials m ate r-

Karyoke - Every Other Thursday

‘THE   ALMS

101 W. Nelson St, Lexington, Va.

 
 

Subscribe to
the Phi.

Call (703) 463-8581

 

 

‘SPECIAL

REPORT

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

‘mi rag: ’

; 

Ellie ‘ﬂing-mm lﬁlti

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 2, 1992

“Comer heads back to jail

By GREGORY Pxrrrnzsou
Phi News Editor

0
Charles Blakely Comer, the former W&L
student who served six months in jail for
killing a freshman in a 1989 hit-and-nm acci-
dent, yesterday retumed to Rockbridge
County jail after violating his probation.
Rockbridge County Cir-

‘ Icuit Court Judge Rudolph

Bumgardner III Thursday re-
voked Comer's suspended
sentence and returned him to
jail,ru1ingthataGeorgiaDUI
conviction was a violation of
Comer’s probation.

: 0 “You got the keys back in

"“You’d been given an oppor-

your pocket after you killed
one person, and you showed
the same irresponsible atti-
tude [toward alcohol],”
Commonwealth’s Attorney
Eric Sisler told Comer.

tunity. Now it's time to pay
the penalty.”

Comer could spend four and a halfyears in
jail, the unserved portion of his ﬁve-year
sentence for the March 1989 death of W&L
freshman Mary Ashley Scarborough.

0 Comer, who came to court with his wife of

one day and his parents, said Thursday he was
prepared to go to jail and wanted to take part
in an alcohol treatment program.

In a lengthy account of what he had done
since getting out of jail in September 1990,
Comer told the court about his Georgia arrest

’ ‘for driving under the inﬂuence. He said that

I

he was returning to his home in Winder, Ga.,
on May l9after goingtoarestaurantandabar
with friends in Athens, Ga., about 20 miles
from Winder. He said he was pulled over for
speeding in Statharn, Ga., and registered a .16
blood-alcohol content on abreathalyzer, twice
‘the state’s legal limit.

He pleaded no contest to the DUI and
speeding charges in September and was given
a $44 fine because he had attended an alco-
hol-awareness seminar.

Comer acknowledged Thursday that he

Comer

had been intoxicated the night he hit
Scarborough in 1989 and saidhe didnot drink
alcohol for several months after getting out of

jail.

He said he started drinking again because
he was having problems socializing at the
University of Georgia.

Comer said he didnot realize he was drunk
when he tried to drive home in May and could
not recall in court how many
drinks he had.

“So after not drinking for
[a few months], you had got
to drinking again where you
cou1dn’tremember how many
drinks you had,” Sisler asked.

“I was talking with my
friends and not counting my
drinks,” Comer said. “I guess
I should have been.”

“You were lucky there was
not another Miss Scarborough
in that little Georgia town
when you went zooming
through,” Sisler said.

Comer was prompted in
his account by his lawyer, Thomas Spencer,
who told Bumgardner that he was not there
“to advocate for leniency, but to help Blake
talk about what has happened since he got out
of jail.”

Comer said he did odd jobs

with a Georgia clothing company. In May, he
was told he would be promoted to a salesman
on June 1, so he and his girlfriend got en-
gaged. _
Comer told the court he was celebrating
his engagement and promotion with his friends
on the night of his May arrest.

Comer said he wanted to break off his
engagement before he went back to jail, but
his ﬁancee wanted to prove her devotion to
him. They were married Wednesday, one day
before Comer’s probation hearing.

Comer, who covered up his involvement
in Scarborough’s death and was arrested on
an anonymous tip eight months after the
accident, said he immediately told his South
Carolina probation officer about his May
arrest.

“I was told by people that I didn’t have to
tell him, that he wouldn’t find out,” Comer
said. “But I wanted to.”

Comer’ s father asked Bumgardner to pun-
ish his son in a way that would not entail
returning to jail.

“Blake tried very hard to lead what people
would call an exemplary life,” Braxton Comer
said. “His drinking was not dangerous, bad,
excessive. It was just this night.”

When Bumgardner revoked Comer’s sus-
pended sentence, there was a stir in the court-
room as media photographers and camera-

men stood

between the time he was re-
leased in September 1990 and

up to get
their equip-

when he enrolled in the Uni-
versity of Georgia in January
1991 . He said that during that
time he spoke to three church
youth groups about his expe-
rience.

“I told them about what I
had done and about the night-
mares and stuff I had lived
with,” Comer said. “It made
me feel good to do something
good for someone else.”

You were lucky there was
not another Miss Scarborough
in that little Georgia town
when you went zooming
through.

— Eric Sisler,

Commonwealth’s Attorney ‘

ment and
wait out-
side.

“ Y o u
will remain
seated until
this court
has been
adjoume ,”

There was silence in the room as the

After he graduated from the University of
Georgia in June 1991, Comer said he had a
hard time getting a job when he told prospec-
tive employers that he had been in jail.

Comer said he got a job last December

sheriff ’s deputy waited for paper from the
court clerk and then led Comer out the side
door of the courtroom onto a fire escape.
Comer’s mother, father and wife watched as
the door shut behind him.

‘ti-ii‘: us\%:v.=:r.r~-stv Li’.3i-"oi-FY
WA'5H.li\é42'i’CJN   uitm-nslivr

IEXINGTON, VA. 244519 ,2‘ '

OCT 9

4

I992

I few to handle...

 The roommate

3.
: «

from

hell!!!

Yellow Jackets buzz W&L

Don’t miss the action
in the special photo spread

U112 lliing-tum iﬂlti

I VIE 92, NO. 5

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A Other
MSA

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 8, 1992

SCC dismisses Miller

Senior suspended last year found guilty on similar charge

By RICHARD Pi~:i.rz
Phi Executive Editor

iiw Llt.
' FOC

Fllm

Contact

Calyx
Arlel

rrrv-It

0 10

' ' '2'o' ‘ ' '3'o' ' ' '4'o' '
dollars In thousands

rvylvlllrrlrl

50 60 70

EC doles out
lithe big

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee allocated
$235,425 to student organimtions Mon-
day, with the largest portion, $63,000,
going to the Student Activities Board.

The SAB allocation was about
$9,000 more than last year’s. The Stu-
dent Bar Asso-

I’-K&PC/TRTP

bucks

pected on Monday.

Contact received $27,000 from the
EC to be used for speakers of interest to
a large portion of the student body. The
allocation is $2,550 less than Contact’s
request, but $2,000 more than they
received last year.

The EC gave Calyx $75,000, $725
less than they requested. The Ririg-turn

Phi received

ciation re-
c e i v e d
$46,000, the
second largest »
chunk of the
student activi-
ties fund. The
SBA request
was cut about
$6,000,butthe
allocation is
$5,000 more
tlunlastyear’s.
The EC A . .—
voted to set up ‘ '
a ftmd through 29 '55‘).
Contact to be 3" g‘ ~
used to co- '
sponsorspeak-
eiu with orga-
nizations like
the Minority
StudentsAsso-

sneqvuesi  ‘

 51 .926 

  74.895 , r SAB  

Calyx 

    ‘The Ring-turn Phi  

$13,500, the cost
of aweekly sub-
scription for the
entire student
body at about 23
cents per issue.
Phi Execu-
tive Editors
' C a t h r y n
Lopiccolo and
Richard Peltz
told the EC the
subscription
puts more busi-
nessresponsibil-
ity on the Phi and
removes liability
-from the EC for
legal action
against the
n e w s p a p e r .
They said the
student body

91:4 '7?

93.1‘

ciation and
Women’s Fo-
rum. EC President Josh MacFarland
amiointed EC Secretary BobTompkins
and representatives James Rambeau,
Jay Sterne and Ashby Hackney to a
committee, charging them with pre-
paring a proposal for the co-sponsor-
ship fund.

“If we go with the [new fund], both

ups need to agree on the speakers,”
Tompkins said.

A decision on the fund, to which the
EC plans to give about $7,500, is ex-

_lFC to examine Flush

Committee to consider limiting pledge-class sizes

will not pay for
. n e w s p a p e r s
given to administration and faculty.

The EC put $6,000 into the Mock
Convention annual fund and gave
Fancy Dress $7,000, about the amount
FD made last year.

The EC also put $14,000 into its
reserves.

The EC also gave $2,500 to the
Graharn-Lee-Washington Literary So-
ciety and $1,200 to the AIDS Educa-
tion Project. Both are new organiza-
tions.

By RICHARD Pi-21.12
Phi Executive Editor

The IFC formed a committee Tuesday to scruti-

“You force freshmen into situations where they
don’t belong,” Bowen said. “Over the years the
houses are going to become homogenized.”

But lacking a cap could jeopardize the stability of

The Student Conduct Committee voted Tuesday
to permanently dismiss senior Marcus Lamar Miller
from W&L after finding him guilty of harassment,
trespassing and ungentlemanly conduct.

Miller, who returned to school in September after
being suspended by the SCC last fall for a separate
charge of trespassing, would not comment on the
case.

The SCC met in closed session for over four hours
in the Executive Committee room Tuesday night to
hear evidence and decide the case. At about 11:15
p.m., Miller threw open the door and stormed from
the room. He cursed the university, said he would
contact an attorney and left the building. His SCC
advisor, second-year law student John Hussell, fol-
lowed him. ’

“I'm obviouslynothappy with the ruling,” Hussell
said about 30 minutes later. “We’ve got a legitimate
grounds for appeal.”

In November 1991, the SCC suspended Miller for
trespassing, about two months after he pleaded guilty
in Lexington General District Court to trespassing in
a W&L student’s home during the previous summer.

The trespassing charge resulted from a plea bar-
gain, reducing the original charge of breaking and
entering with intentto commita sexual-assault felony,
according to police and court records.

The court on Sept. 24 gave Miller a one-year,
suspended sentence, ﬁned him $500, and ordered
him to serve 50 hours of community service. A court
clerk said Wednesday that Miller has since paid the
fine and served his hours, and that the sentence has
expired.

Miller has seven days to appeal this latest SCC
conviction to a board consisting of Dean of Students
David L. Howison, EC President Josh MacFarland
and Cinda Rankin, the senior faculty member of the
Student Affairs Committee. The Board of Appeals
may not overturn the ruling, but they may return it to
the_SCC for reconsideration.

Hussell said he would encourage Miller to appeal,

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Rin-tui1iPhi

Blake Comer leaves the Rockbridge County Courthouse  1 In huidcutls.

Comer returns to prison

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

alcohol,” Comer said.

“You ran down and killed Miss Scarborou
until now for you to realize you had a drinking problem,”

Charles Blakely Comer came to Lexington last Thursday

prepared to go back to jail.

Last week, Rockbridge County Circuit Court Judge
Rudolph Bumgardner III ruled that a Georgia DUI convic-
tion was a violation of Comer’s probation and ordered
Comer to serve the four and a half years remaining on his
original ﬁve-year sentence for involuntary manslaughter
and hit and run in the 1989 death of freshman Mary Ashley

Scarborough.

Comer served six months in jail for killing Scarborough

in 1990 and was released on probation.

In his 1990 trial, Comer admitted that he was drunk when

he hit and killed Scarborough with his car.

Last week, Comer said he did not drink for months ‘after
getting out of jail in September 1990, but his May DUI

charge showed he had a drinking problem.

“I obviously did not learn about the consequences of

Commonwealth’s Attorney Eric Sisler said.

Comer said he would take part in an alcohol counseling

program while in jail.

not try to cover up his May DUI arrest.

and-a-half years probation.

Maybe four years in jail. Maybe not.”

ghaand it took

Comer’s attorney, Thomas Simons, told Bumgardner
that Comer had been very willing since he got out of jail in
1990 to talk about what he had done. Simons said Comer did

Comer said when he was stopped in Georgia in May, he
told the police officer about the Scarborough killing.

Second-year law student Bob Tompkins was a W&L
undergraduate when Scarborough was killed and when
Corner was sentenced to only six months in jail with four-

“I don't know if it will ever be resolved,” Tompkins said.
“If eight months of hiding with that skeleton in your closet
won’t make you clean up your act, I don’t know what will.

but said he did not know if Miller would choose to do
so.

“The harshness of the penalty did not ﬁt the
crime,” Hussell said.

Hussell also said Miller’s previous record with
the SCC was considered in this case, making further
grounds for appeal.

“In a normal court of law, what occurred in the
past would not be brought up,” he said.

SCC rules do not forbid consideration of previous
cases.

SCC President Reggie Aggarwal, ’94L, would
not comment on the case, citing SCC rules of confi-
dentiality. He also would not identify the female
complainant or where she attended school.

No one outside the SCC office Tuesday would
comment on the case.

Aggarwal did say that he had forgotten to remind
Hussell of the confidentiality rules until after Hussell
spoke to the Phi.

SCC rules prohibit participants from discussing
cases outside the hearings.

Colorful
halftime
hero dies

Shillington, W&L
chemistry professor,
kissed many queens

From the W&L News Office

James Keith Shillington, W&L’s
icon of Homecoming halftimes and
professor of chemistry for 38 years,
died at Stonewall Jackson Hospital on
Sunday of Homecoming weekend. He
was 70. ' .

“Keith was truly a larger than life
character,” chemistry professor Mike
Pleva said. “He was a major inﬂuence
in this department and probably the
one person that an awful lot of doctors

‘ who came out
of W&L wi1lre-
‘ member.”
 Shillington
I had been ill for
some time be-
fore he died.
Shillington’s
colorful dress
and whimsical

p e r s o n a l i t y

made him a fa-

miliar sight on
the W&L cam-
Shillington P.“ ‘° “8°“°“"
tion of students.

For many years, the highlight of
Homecoming football was
Shillington’s halftime presentation of
the Homecoming queen with the tradi-
tional bouquet, accompanied by a
Shillington-sized kiss.

A native of Clarion, Iowa,
Shillington received his B.S. in chem-
istry from Iowa State University and

his doctorate from Cornell. After one
year as an instructor at Amherst Col-
lege, he came to W&L, where he taught
until his retirement in 1991.

Shillington was a co-author of
W&L’s freshman laboratory manual
and the author of his own organic chem-
istry laboratory manual.

Shillington’s talents extended into
the literary realm. His adaptation of
Euripides’ The Bacchants was per-
formed at W&L in 1968. He also wrote

nize this year’s Rush and suggest changes for 1993,
including the possibility of a limit to pledge class
sizes. '

“I think we had enough problems this year,
assessed enough fines, had enough dirty nish, and
the pledge classes were so skewed, that we can
revise the system or have a new system all together,”

terfratemity Council President Sam Rock told the
IFC Tuesday.

The committee of fraternity men will meet to-
night to discuss Rush. ~

When Rock asked fraternity officers to talk about
Rush at Tuesday’s meeting, conversation centered
on pledge-class sizes.

" Rock asked IFC members what they would think
of a limit, or cap, on pledge-class sizes, of 22 men,
for example.

Phi Delta Theta rush chairman Billy Guice said
there should be no cap.

“You shouldn’t every year try to get everybody,”
Guice said. “But there's no reason you shouldn’t be

able to get as many’ of the best guys as you want.”

Kappa Alpha member Andrew Bowen agreed
about having no cap, citing possible consequences.

the fraternity system, Rock said.

“We're in a position right now where we could
possibly lose houses,” he said. “The only way you
could do it [put on a cap] humanely is if you had a
longer time period, with everything open contact.”

That way a freshman would have time to check
out other houses if he were rejected from one, Rock
said.

Guice argued against the extension of Rush.

“You msh for two weeks and that’s all you do,”
he said. “If you rush for two months  that's too
much to ask."

Fraternity representatives also suggested there
be more open contact in Rush. And they argued for
and against clearer definitions of Rush rules and
greater codification of penalties for Rush violations.

Chi Psi pledged three men tear weekend and,
according to Chi Psi President Paul Baker, will
graduate ll seniors in 1993. But Chi Psi Vice
President John Hudson said he opposes a cap.

“If you have 80 guys wanting to go one house,”
Hudson said, “that leaves a lot of angry guys.”

Phi Sta_ﬁ'WriterFairh Truman contributed to this
story.

File hoto
And the battle of the sexes continues!"

A federal appeals court Monday upheld Virginia Military lnstitute’s all-male
admissions policy, but said the state must take some action to protect
women's rights. Judge Paul V. Niemeyer wrote that Virginia could admit
women to VMI, develop a parallel program or institution, or discontinue
state funding of VMI. VMI and The Citadel in Charleston, S.C. are the only
all-male, state-supported schools in the country.

two songs that were performed at a
concert in honor of late assistant music
professor James Tucker Cook Jr. in
1983.

Shillington taught beginning or-
ganic chemistry, considered one of the
toughest and most demanding classes
in the department

In an interview with the Roanoke
Times & World-News in 1983,
Shillington said he liked teaching fresh-
men, but was feeling the strain of so
many years.

“lt’s like being a rock in a broo ,”
Shillington said. “The square comers
are becoming rounded.”

Shillington is survived by a sister,
Nina Catherine Kelsey of Springfield,
Mo., and several nieces and nephews.

In lieu of ﬂowers, the family re-
quests contributions be made to the
James Keith Shillington Scholarship
for a rising junior in chemistry.

 

PAGE 2

@112 Ifttng-tum lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Goodbye Blake
and Marcus

, Washington andLeehas ﬁnally closed the book ontwo of the
saddest incidents to occurr on our campus in many years. The unique
Zsystem of conduct discipline that exists at W&L is designed to
}quickly indicate those in our community who cannot live up to its
Istandards. But Blake Comer and Marcus Miller indicate that it
{sometimes fails.
 Students and alumni who are familiar with Comer’s actions
1 in the moments after he hit and killed Ashley Scarborough with his
9 car in 1989 have every right to be angry with his decision to cover up
I his involvement in that accident. But that is possibly too easy a
E criticism to make, and one that does not cover the extent of the
tragedy. To the friends and family of Ashley Scarborough, the fact
2 that Comer ran from the scene of the accident can only stand as ameie
i footnote to the tragedy of Ashley’s death.
5 One can only pray to never ﬁnd oneself in such a horrible
; situation as Comer faced that night. But the bottom line is that things
; never should have gone that far. If it were not for the decisions that
‘ Comer made in the hours before he struck Ashley, the tragedy never
would have occurred.
j The decision that got Comer into trouble that night, and the
one that got him back into trouble with a DUI arrest in Georgia in
E May, is one that too many of students make too often. All of this
1 should seem obvious to someone who had served jail time for a
E manslaughter that he committed while driving drunk. But Comer‘s
3 return to Rockbridge Circuit Court last week proves that he has not
; leamed his lesson. ‘
1 Unfortunately, he is not alone. While DUI convictions have
: gone down among students in the. last few years, they remain
 remarkably high for a campus that has so recently faced such a
i tragedy. Blake admitted at his probation hearing Friday that even
: afterhis conviction, he did not believe he had a drinking problem and
 did not believe he was drunk on the night that he received the DUI in
1 Georgia.
 Too many W&L students who use alcohol irresponsibly
 have the same mentality. How many potential Blake Comers do we
1 have at this university?
E Comer said in his hearing that after being convicted of his
' DUI in Georgia, he volunteered the information to his parole ofﬁcer
. because he was “tired of hiding things.” Comer’ s notion of sympathy
3 was to make us believe that if he had struck a pedestrian that night in
Georgia, at least he would not have ﬂed the scene. While not
' criticizing the virtue of honesty, it is impossible to believe that Comer
: has reformed his most seriousproblem. When Comer ﬁnallyrealizes
’ that drinking irresponsibly kills moreipeople than telling lies about
it, that will at least be a start.
So far as Blake Comer has a problem that he has not
1 overcome, so does Marcus Miller. Miller should have realized after
Q his ﬁrst SCC conviction that violating a peer’s privacy, in any way,
E is unacceptable conduct at W&L. By cursing the university after his
: conduct hearing Tuesday night, Miller demonstrated that his stan-
L dards for acceptable behavior are not consistent with those of this
T university.
I The rules of conduct at W&L are deliberately lenient in order
3 to reﬂect conﬁdence in our student body. As W&L students, we pride
: ourselves on our ability to accept criticism and detennine acceptable
5 methods of self-conduct. But there are those within our student body
«: who are not up to this task. Students have a responsibility to seek help
~ for themselves and their peers if they cannot live up to the standards
‘ of the community. Miller and Comer have problems that they were
; unable to identify by themselves before it was too late.
| With this in mind, students owe it to themselves and their
: classmates to be critcal of one another and to accept criticism in
'; return This is the way a self-ajudicating community such as W&L
I operates. When students‘ such as Comer and Miller fail the system,
f they do not deserve our hatred, but neither have they earned our
f sympathy. So good luck, gentlemen, and please take your problems,
' e if you must, somewhere else.

one ‘ixtng-tum lﬂlri

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising, but also from a portion of the student activities
fund. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editors and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, Room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions
of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

     
 

i”

Y.
 .
.9"

ROM. No»! or! ,

WW7 MOSES Event
31°57‘ MIWTE, Roan

I>4MAcvE To A

Winds of change rush through Senate

WASHINGTON— Last week, while that spoon-
ful of silliness called Perot was pondering whether to
make of himself a gift to the nation, two of

' Washington's grown-ups, going against the grain of
this political season, said something both radical and
sensible.

Sens. Pete Domenici,

OPINION

5T&tIcrvlte wife‘ U "7

HAVE ‘tn Answer;
T0 A Rocco.

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 19§3_2_-

WASHINGTON—- Between now
and Nov. 3, President George Bush and
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton will meet
in televised debates. I have a quintet of
questions for each of them.

For President Bush-

I. The Recession. America suffers
from its mostenduring economic slow-
down since World War II. The layoffs
have been staggering and

Tough questions g
posed to candidate ,

 
     
    
      

States?

For Gov. Clinton-

1. Pandering. Name a single fe V
program you are willing to elim' l

2. Spending. Your list of cam .  .
promises is long. It includes nati -
health insurance, new highway
bridge construction, massive job . .
training, greateraccess to collegel : '

people expectmore.consumer
conﬁdence is dreadful. Before
talking about your plans for
the next four years, please tell

CHRISTOPHER MATTHE:

 
 
  

Tribune Media Services 

us what you personally be-
lieve caused this catastrophe.
Your vice president, Dan Quayle,
. blames the recession on the historic
budget bargain you struck with Con-
gress tow years ago. Is that the heart of
it? That you made a bad deal?

2. Deﬁcits. You now say, on the eve
of the election, that you regret the two-
year-old agreement that has both cut
federal spending and raised taxes. But
if you had rejected the ‘ 90 deal, how
would you have kept the federal deﬁ-
cit, which has zoomed to $400 billion,
from rising even further, perhaps caus-
ing a total U.S. ﬁnancial collapse?

3. Home Buying. Your new eco-
nomic program states that “more people
can afford to own a home today than at
any time since 1973.” Do you truly
believe that young American families
find buying a home easy in today’s
economy? Why, then, are so many of
these young couples forced to rent?
Why do we see so many “For Sale”
signs on our lawns? If it‘s so easy to
buy a home today, where are the buy-
ers?

4. Guns. You have made crime a big
issue in this election year just as you
made Willie Horton a winning issue in
1988. Why, given your concern over
rising crime, are you so unentliusiastic
aboutafive-daywaitingperiod on hand-
guns? Why do you refuse to support a
ban on U.S.- made assault riﬂes?

5. Vice Presidents. The prime con-
stitutional duty of a vice president is to
serve as the country's chief executive
should something happen to the Presi-
dent. Do you believe Dan Quayle would
make a good president of the United

 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
     
    

a national apprenticeship prog ~ .
national service corps, a nation  , v«
lice corps and a boot camp for .
dealers. Where's the money It '
from? *4;

3. Taxes. You promised to r
taxes only on the top 2 perce t W
citizens. Is this a“read mylips’’t ‘ j .
commitment? Do you promise not ‘-
raise the taxes of 98 percent of the
American people? -

l

  
    
  
  
  

4. Defense Spending. Why do yot
the candidate of “fundamental change

    

y'- “"9;
want to spend 95 percent as much as 
President Bush on the Pentagon during M
the next ﬁve years? Why, to take on

example, does thecountryneed to buil - ’
a Seawolf nuclear submarine? 
mission can you imagine for this $* 4
billion Connecticut-built vehicle be- i,
yond collecting eight electoral votes f

5. Draft. You have asteel-trap min
You come to every issue loaded w‘ 
statistics, brimming wi-th informat ‘
consumed in the quest for more. In 1,
interviews, you have displayed a wo V
derful ability to recall colorful inci
dents from your youth in rural Arkar I
sas.

Your staff has even located an op ‘
ﬁlm clip of your student meeting wi  
Presidentlohn F. Kennedy. How, giv : 
this, can you expect the Ameri .»
people to believe you cannot reme
ber a one-to-one meeting with the h air:
of the Arkansas draft board, a meethjng
which decided whether you were s V '
to ﬁght and possibly die in the jung ‘
of Vietnam? ' «'4

©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

    
  
  
   
   
    
    
  
 
  
  
    
    
   
   

percent.

The commission's plan is to achieve faster growth
by reversing the trends of both variables, using
mutually reinforcing deﬁcit reduction and tax re-
structuring strategies. The tax plan is breathtaking:
“Abolish the present tax
code and enact progressive

the New Mexico Repub-
lican, and Sam Nunn, the
Georgia Democrat, are
co-chairmen of The

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

consumption-based in-
come taxation within two
years.”

The commission ex-

Strengthening American
commission whose re-
port. if implemented, would give America much
more change than Bill Clinton, the “candidate of
change.” has contemplated.

The commission, organized by the Center for
Strategic and International Studies and composed of
political, business, labor and academic leaders, of-
fers an intellectually——although perhaps not politi-
cally—-plausible way for the nation to escape its
crumbling, downward path toward a crabbed and
mean future.

The nation's core dilemma can be put succinctly.
For America’s welfare state, demography is destiny.
The population is aging and the elderly are the
disproportionate consumers of transfer payments,
particularly pensions and medical care. Spending on
entitlements is rising three to four times faster than
the economy is growing. But as brisk economic
growth becomes more crucial (to generate revenues
to which there are entitlement claims), two eco-
nomic variables—productivity and savings——are
varying ominously.

U.S. productivity-—output per worker—-is still
higherthanGermany’s orJapari’s, but its growthrate
has slowed while productivity has accelerated in
other major countries.

Our savings rate, now at an all-time low, fell from
9.8 percent of gross domestic product in the 1960s to
3.6 percent in the 1980s, while Japan and the Euro-
pean Community nations save at a rate over 10

plains: “A taxpayer would
take annual income, add
gifts and bequests as well as net borrowings, and
subtract all savings——basically net investments and
the net change in his or her bank balance. The
remainder would equal consumption, and the result-
ing amount minus exemptions would be taxed.”

Taxation would be on only that portion of per-
sonal income or corporate cash flow not directed to
savings, investment or capital formation. The tax
table could be as progressive "as policy-makers wish.
All forms of income——wages, interest, dividends-
would be treated the same. lnvestrnent outlays would
be expensed immediately, thereby eliminating com-
plex measurements of depreciation and amortiza-
tion.

By exempting savings and investment from taxa-
tion, the comrnission’s plan would eliminate the
perversity of the current tax system under which
income that is saved is taxed twice—when earned,
and when it generates interest. This incentive for
immediate consumption strengthens our culture's
general bias against deferral of gratiﬁcations. Corpo-
rate earriings are taxed at the corporate level; if
distributed as dividends, they are taxed as sharehold-
ers’ earnings; if corporations retain earnings and
stock values rise, stockholders are subject to capital
gains taxation.

The commission traces the pedigree of its idea
back three centuries to Thomas Hobbes: “It is fairer
to tax people on what they extract from the economy,

as roughly measured by their consumption, than to
tax them on what they produce for the economy, as
roughly measured by their income.” "

Unfortunately, the Democratic Party, which will
control congress for the foreseeable future and prob-
ably the executive branch for at least four years, is in
an intellectual rut. '

It is wedded to the primitive notion of fairness
expressed in Clinton’s banal and ideological desire to
increase taxation of high incomes. (A 20 percent
surtax on incomes over $l,0()0,000— Clinton talks
of 10 percent-—would raise just $16 billion over ﬁve
years. To ﬁnance today’s deﬁcit the government
borrows $16 billion every 16 days.)

On the spending side the commission calls for a
cap on entitlements other than Social Security. The
commission envisions $2.75 in spending cuts for
every $1 of revenue increases from the new system,
with cuts to be locked in law before the tax increases
are approved.

Trouble is, when Nunn, Domenici and a few
others recently proposed an entitlements cap, it took
the interest groups (the elderly, agriculture, labor,
veterans and scores more) just two hours to crank up
aﬂood of angry telegrams to Senate ofﬁces. This was
an example of what the National Jourrial’s Jonathan
Ranch calls “demosclerosis" and conservatives call
“reactionary liberalism”——defense of the status quo
by everyone with an entitlement. Demosclerosis would
be doubled in intensity when tax lawyers got into the
act, defending their clients’ favorite sugarplums ‘at
today’s tax code.

Still, the commission's report is evidence that the
nation's ﬁscal and economic problems (as distinct
from its cultural and behavioral problems) are prob-
lems not of intellectual mystery but of political will.
And to a nation rightly anxious about its trajectory,
the commission, quotingone of its members (Dwyaw
Andraes, CEO of Archer Daniels Midland) says: “If
you don’t change your direction, you'll wind up
where you're headed.”

@1992, Washington Post Writers Group

Kidnapping happens

To the Editor:

LETTERS

A friend of mine was abducted two
weeks ago in Columbia, S.C. She has
not been seen or heard from since. She
was a little older than most of you. . .
she graduated from Randolph-Macon
Women's College two years ago. She
was living in Columbia with her par-
ents while she studied for the GRE's.
The night she disappeared, she had
been out celebrating after the U2 con-
cert. At about 2:30 a.m., she was ready
to go home. Her friends were not, they
were still drinking at the bar. She de-
cided to go to a bar right around the
comer to see if any of her friends there
would give her a ride. The bouncer
remembers watching her leave and walk
around the comer in the direction of the
other bar. No one remembers seeing
her at that bar.

tween the Palms and Spanky’s, she

The Spectator fumbled facts

In a distance shorter than that be- To the Edi*°"= _ ,
In their latest pollution of the campus, the Spectator-babies over last year s

vanished. I just want everyone to be “Diana Phillips affair” at the law school with all the dishonesty we've come to
reminded that these things do happen, expect of them. Allow me to unmuddle the facts of tlus episode.

and they happen to people like you and
to friends like yours.

Lewis Hall's Federalist Society is a collection of nialadjusted pip-squeaks
whose lunatic-fringe fascism would be alarming were they not such a pitiable

Please watch our for each omen 1 bunch. Allpossessed of limited intellects but powerful prejudices, the Federalists
know that its easy to relax in Lexing- are young men and women so upset by the liberalizing influences of worldlinesg
ton, and the possibility of something and education that as their horizons broaden to about the diameter of apinhead
like this happening here is remote. they react by banding together to rabrdly reztfﬁrm every meag-splnted. Ignorant
However,Ithinktliatmyfriendthought assumption they were raised on. Last spring. they ran a First Amendment

the same thing.

experiment ” on their pin-up board at Lewis Hall. This involved posting a student

There should be some ﬂiers around article which aired some disfavoured views on society, and inviting anyone to
campus this week giving a description. attack it in any way. Within days, the board was several times ﬁlled up with hate-
If anyone was at me cohnnbia U2 ﬁlled derision of the article; whenever it was filled, the Federalists freshened the’
concen, or pa;-tying in cohnnbia that board up—- you know, put up new construction paper, etc.—and the free-for-

night, it would help if you contacted resumed-
the Columbia police. You might have
helpful information. Thank you.

Elizabeth Mason, ’94L

Enter Diana Phillips, '92L. Before calling her action a “hate crime.” the
Spectator merely tells us that Diana “took her magic markers to” the Federalists’
board. Ah!—- but the Spectator-babies don’t tell us what she did with those

U see LEITERS, pageﬁ

  

  

    

9

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 1 992

OPINION

Dr. Spos advises deviants of the world

Spos’ SPACE
‘ By Tom Hespos

Welcome to ‘Ask Dr. Spos,’ a new
advice column for the upwardly mo-
bile college student with alcohol de-
pendency, credit problems, social
kviances and the like. Direct all in-
quiries to: Ask Dr. Spos, The Ring-turn
Phi office, W&L University.

Dear Dr. Spos,

My best friend and I are very close.
We share what I consider to be the
Qrongest bond that two individuals on
this planet can share. Sometimes, I
don’t even have to verbalize my
thoughts. She can just sense what I am
thinking. That is how close we are to
each other. She gives me advice on
how to handle my boyfriend, helps me
with my homework and watches
“902 10" with me just about every damn
Wednesday night. My problem is that
my best friend is a head of lettuce. Is
this normal?

-Julie

hear Julie,

It sounds like you might not be
getting enough sex. Check the White
Book with regard to vegetable matter

assisting you with your homework.
We might be looking at a potential
H.V. here.

Dear Dr. Spos,

I’ve lost all respect for my girl-
friend. At the Widespread Panic con-
cert last week, she drank too much Jack
Daniels and got sick all over my new
s———tkickers. Later on in the night, we
were getting romantic in the bed of my
pickup truck and she insisted on burn-
ming some of my chaw. Within ten
seconds, she got sick again and ruined
a favorite ﬂannel shirt of mine that my
daddy gave me. Some of the spew
shorted out the big lights on my roll
bar. I was as mad as a wet hen, so I hog-
tied her to the front grille of my truck
and drove through downtown Buena
Vista at four in the morning, so I might
learn her a lesson. Later on, she con-
fessed that she was from New Jersey.
What should I do? .

-Jimmy Joe

Dear Jimmy Joe,

Sounds like you’re from Texas, and
therefore not getting enough sex.
Chronic vomiting is a problem that
several W&L boys like yourself have
to learn to deal with when taking out
those cute road-school girls. Being
from New Jersey, however, is one of

the worst social blunders imaginable,
ranking just below reading The Spec-
tator in offensiveness. Get yourself a
new filly, Jimmy Joe, and stop dispens-
ing chewing tobacco to northemers.

Dear Dr. Spos,

I feel so guilty. I went out to the
country yesterday, and there were a lot
of cows around. I suddenly started to
get a little... well... excited. Who am I
kidding? I got really, really excited.
Now, all I can think of at night is taking
one of those bovine beauties to bed
with me. Am I normal?

-Anonymous

Dear Anonymous,

Dr. Spos does not print anonymous
letters. Your name is J. William
Snodgrass, and you live in Gaines 291 .
Good luck getting a date, loser.

Dear Dr. Spos,

‘ Last week, I was in a local clothing
store. I had my checkbook with me,
even though I knew that I only had
$1.86 in my account. I saw this great
leather miniskirt and immediately fell
in love with it. To make a long story

short, I deliberatelywrote a check for .

the skirt, knowing that my account
didn’t have enough money in it to cover
the purchase. Am I a bad person?

-A Local Politician

Dear Mayor Derrick,

Although the mere thought of you
in a leather miniskirt is enough to make
me want to hurl, you are not a bad
person.

Writing bad checks is the norm for
politicians these days. It's almost like
your constituents are paying you back
for the measly salary they stiffed you
with. Have no fear. By the way, it
sounds like you might not be getting
enough sex. Go for it, big guy!

Dear Dr. Spos, .

Ifind you offensive, tasteless, and
worst of all, morally unrestrained. Since
you have been at W&L, you have done
nothing but offend the students and
faculty, and I resent it. I would be a
happy woman if you would just quit
school and stop writing for the Phi.

-Georgette

Dear Mom,

Thanks for the emotional support.
See you overThariksgiving break. Oh,
and by the way, Happy Birthday!

Confidential to J.C.H.: No, I don’t
think that girls are impressed‘ with the
fact that you edit a W&L news publica-
tion [sic].

Columbus: two sides of the same coin

g ten glory. ' . ~

MY VIEW .
By Richard Peltz, ’93

. On Monday, Oct. 12, people in the United States
will recognize Columbus Day, almost 500 years since
Columbus’ landing in the “New World.”

Someone will probably splash blood, or a red
substitute, on the Columbus statue in Washington.
There will be demonstrations decrying moral atroci-
ties committed by Columbus and the Spanish in the
New World.

In many cities there will be parades honoring
Columbus, the daring explorer responsible for unit-
ing humanity. Thousands will cheer on the parade in
Baltimore(; my cousin Tom will play Columbus and
ride on a ﬂoat). V

The extreme anti-Columbians will portray Co-
ﬁmbus as happening upon a New World by mere
c ance, murdering and raping the “Indians” by his
own hand, deceiving the Spanish crown as to his true,
selﬁsh andtwisted purposes, and dying in

 .. . ,  ,. gt yr-:,).)__,__;‘ =;,., .,

The extreme pro-Columbians will portray their

hero as the brilliant navigator, discovering. a New
World he knew would be there, trying to protect the
Qmocent Indians from filthy-minded sailors, always
with God and morality foremost in his mind, and
dying with less recognition than he deserved.

It's ironic that so many people attribute so many

motives and deeds to Columbus. In fact, no one ought
judge him hastily, if at all, as there is so little we really
know about him.
! Cristoforo Colombo was probably born in Genoa,
Italy in the autumn of 1451. He took to the sea in
commercial ventures at an early age and eventually
situated himself in Portugal.

We don’t know where Columbus got the idea to
sail West, but it was no brilliant deduction. The
roundness of the world was all the talk in Portugal,
Ind others surely considered reaching Asia across the

ill-begot-
‘  »3.?;,siire:ihantlie sailors, so the : . ,.  

unexplored Ocean Sea. .

Columbus miscalculated the size of the earth and
thought China would be a short voyage west. Re-
jected in Portugal, he petitioned the Spanish crown in

1486 to fund the venture. In 1492, the crown agreed,
along with a promise of status and profit if he
succeeded. The deal didn’t
cost much, initially; it's not
true that the queen pawned

ing Eden and might have a role in rebuilding Jerusa-
lem. He was, however, very ill and going blind; what
effect that might have had on his mind we don’t
know.

Columbus died in Spain in 1504, never having
received all that the crown had promised. A final
irony to the Columbian
mysteries, we do not
even know for certain

her jewels to make the voy-
age possible.

About a month after the
Nifia, Pinta and Santa
Mari’a’s departure in fall
1492, shipboard tension
surely ran high. But near-
mutiny might go too far.
The long—held view that
Columbus rriisinformed the
sailors as to how much dis-
tance they covered might

notbetrue; he used adiffer- encounter.

We each must recognize and
come to terms with the past in
our own way. Some of us might
choose to mourn the countless
deaths brought on by the
encounter of 1492, and some of
us might choose to celebrate
the world which grew out of the

where Columbus ’ bones
lie today.

One more thing we
do know for certain,
however: Columbus
was human. Thus by
definition, he was not
perfect. He had emo-
tions, biases, ﬂaws and
less-than-ideal motiva-
tions. He was a product
of his times and society.

Considering his hu-

ent, shorter nautical mea-

double reports in the log could come from simple
numeric conversion. . V 1-,;

Columbus’ expedition landed in today’s Carib-
bean; we don’t know where. We also don’t know if
Columbus ever knew he had landed in a New World,
despite three subsequent voyages. His writings refer
often to China.

We know little of Columbus’ treatment of the
-Indians. He said he forbade sailors to make unfair
trade with the natives. He said he believed they could
easily be converted to Christianity, seeming to have
no native religion. .

He always questioned them as to the whereabouts
of gold. But in later writings he complained that gold
had become the sole, misguiding purpose of other
explorers, to the exclusion of religion.

In fact, his later writings take a decidedly reli-
gious turn, proposing that he was close to discover-

:r   it :1: 9%  "ta? . .. ,
his actions. But he should be regarded, by anti- and :

manity, Columbus may
 1+.-if-’ -»..gbe§§ield.aceotintab1e—for
prn-Columbians alike, asone.rnan,'not a deity or the
embodiment of a society. « - 1 1

Columbus Day, moreover, should be regarded as
the symbolic recognition of an era, not a time to pay
reverence to Columbus the man. Granted, the era
when Columbus lived was not a time when only good
things happened. Nor was it a time when evil pre-
vailed. It was a time when humanity's soul grew. It
is a part of our history, and of us, which we cannot
erase. .. _

We each must recognize and come to terms with
the past in our own way. Some of us might choose to
mourn the countless deaths brought on by the en-
counter of 1492, and some of us might choose to
celebrate the world which grew out of the encounter.
But we must respect each other’ s means of accepting
what occurred, for it cannot be taken back.

LETTERS

El LETTERS from page 2

markers, do they? How interesting.
Diana Phillips covered the Federal-
ists’ newly-freshened board with ﬂow-
ers, hearts, rainbows, lines of peace-
on—earth-goodwill-toward—all-type po-
‘try, and other such sunny stuff. Magic

markers and crayons were used, as was
that other terrorist technique learnt in
kindergarten, cutting and pasting. Al-
though no announcement that the “First
Amendment experiment” was over had
been made (not surprisingly, since only
upon Ms. Phillips’ intervention did the
Federalists decide they weren’t having

fun anymore), its sponsors now sent up
a chorus of indignant squealing so shrill
that, just to make them shut up, a be-
mused SCC was finally persuaded to
reprimand the malevolent ﬂower-
paster. All in all, a telling demonstra-
tion of right-wing disdain for the Bill
of Rights.

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

9

Jessica Wolf, ‘96, Baltimore, Md.
—— “Steve Johnson on a platter.”

Brent Vincent, ‘94, Palatine, Ill. —
— “Beaver.”

This is what the Spectator calls a
vicious “hate crime.” Flowers and po-
etry. Kinda tells you something about

how the Spectator-babies see the world,
don’t it? -

As

usual,

Niall MacKenzie, ’93.

TALKBACK

 

John Conkling, ‘93, Chestertown,
Md. —— “Steamed crabs and corn on
the cob.”

 

 

Courtney Tucker, ‘96, Roanoke, Va.

— “Something that is actually edible.”

 

Ariel

Ariel, the literary magazine of
Washington and Lee, is now ac-
cepting submissions of poetry, ﬂe-
tion, photography, and art. Sub-
missions should be turned into Carol
Calkins‘ office in the University
Center. .

CD&P

Career Development and place-
ment events this week: Resume
and cover letter workshop on Tues-
day, Oct. 13 from 4-5p.m. (Univer-
sity Center, Rm.l09), Resume Cri-
tiques all day Wednesday, Oct. 14
in the Career Development and
Placement ofﬁce. No appointments
necessary. Resume Drop Deadline
11 for November Companies is
Thursday, Oct. 15 at 4p.m.

Span I s h

Dr. Alvaro Felix Bolanos, assis-
tant professor of Spanish at Tulane
Univ ., will present ‘From the Mar-
gins of the Spanish Empire and
History: Indians in Colonial Span-
ish America‘ on Monday, Oct. 12 at
7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

The lecture is the kickoff of the '

Romance Language Department
Colloquium.

VMI-W&L

Needed. Men and Women in-
terested in organizing a VMI—W&L
student organization. Call Jason at
464-6259.

Women’s Forum

There will be a meeting of
Women’s Forum this Sunday
evening at 6 pm. in the Women’s
Center in the basement of the Uni-
.versity Center. Everyone is wel-
come.

SPJ

Anyone interested in joinin the

. . Washington and Lee Chapter of the
1, Society of Professional Journalists,
‘ ‘inany class,ishould attend the meet-

ing tonight, in the Reid Hall library,
at 7:30 p.m.

Breakfast

U.S. Senator John Warner, ‘49,
will host a breakfast next Thurs-
day, Oct. 15, to honor Congres-
sional candidate Bob Goodlatte.
Goodlatte, a 1977 graduate of W&L
Law School, is the Sixth District
Republican candidateforCongress.
The Sixth District, which includes
Lexington, Buena Vista, and
Rockbridge County, is currently
represented by Democrat Jim Olin
who is not seeking reelection. The
breakfast will be in Chandler Hall
at Southern Seminary. Invitations
and further infomiation can be at-
tained at the Republican Headquar-
ters at the comer of Main & Preston
Streetss., phone 464-8330, or by
phoning Professor Dean at 463-
3964.

‘College Dems

There will be a College ‘Demo-
crats meeting this Sunday, Oct. 11
at 7 p.m. in the University Center
room 109. For more information
call Cottie Miles at 464-6133.

Film Society

There will be an organizational
meeting of the W&L ﬁlm society on
Thursday, Oct. 8 at 7 p.m. in the
Commerce School room 221. All
who wish to be involved with the
Film Society this year should at-
tend. New members are especially
invited.

TheW&Lfilmsocietyis pleased
to announce its second presentation
of the season, Camille Claudel
(France, 1989), directed by Bnmo
Nuytten. Showings will be at
8:05p.m. on Friday, Oct. 9 and Sat-
urday, Oct. 10 in the new Trouba-
dour Cinema, at the comer of Main
and Henry Sts. Admission is free.
Camille Claudel is in French, with
English subtitles. All are encour-
aged to attend.

Freshman EC

Freshman class petitions for
President, Vice President and E.C.
Rep can be picked up in Carol
Calkins" office in the University
Center. They must be turned in by
5 p.m. Oct. 12.

9
Who s Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
amember of the current undergradu-
ate senior class for selection to
Who’s Who among Students in
American Universities and Colleges
may do so by submitting the name
and qualifications of that student to
David L. Howison, Dean of Stir-
dents, in Payne Hall 6 by Oct. 9,
1992.

Speaker

Former Congressman Bill
Frenzel (R-Minn.) will speak Mon-
day, Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. in the C-
School, rm.327 about Election '92
Congressional and’ Presidentiali‘
prospects. " ' ‘

LSAT

KaplanLSATPrepCourse-This
course preparing for the Dec. 5
LSAT will begin on Tuesday, Oct.
20 at 6 p.m. in the C-School 221.
Classes meet regularly on Sundays
and Tuesdays 6-10 p.m. For infor-

8b‘lll8llt §§l8‘PF2lci.1llieQi‘i5ffil%‘?""1'

Seniors

All seniors are reminded to reg-
ister with the Career Development
and Placement Office. To register,
a senior needs to obtain a placement
packet and complete the appropri-
ate forrns and a resume. Once reg-
istered, the senior will receive Col-
lege Placement Council Annuals and
can participate in job fairs and cam-
pus recruitment. Packets and help
available at the CD&P ofﬁce.

What would you like to see served in Evans Dining Hall?

  

I Tim Thompson, ‘93, Fort
Worth, Texas — “The same crap
I had to eat freshman year.”

‘ 96,
Murfreesboro, Tenn. -—— ‘flolin
Wilson with an apple in his niou .”

Garrett Bouldin,

 

Students or Organizations
promote our Florida Spring  '
packages. Earn  and AUD|o . vjpgo 
FREE trips. Organize Small or DEMON SONY
Large groups. Call Campus ADCOM ALPINE
Marketing. 800-423-5264 T°5“'3A MARANTZ
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ KEF cwo
F \ BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

K ______ __J

PAGE 4

Idon’t get along withmyroom-

Asx DR. Wormr
mate. It is only the fourth week
of the term and I'm already

By Dr. James Worth
0
  .
afraid we'll end up killing each
other before the year is over. Lots of little
things drive me up the wall, but the biggest
problem is that she's extremely inconsider-
ate. What should I do? Talking doesn't

seem to be an option because she is stub-
born and closed-minded. How can I ap-

proach her?
A °
' roommate are indeed well on
the way to hating one another
and no doubt making one another miser-
able in the process. It could be a very long
year.
What you need to count on is that she,
too, is unhappy with the situation and real-
izes that the alternative to eight months of

From the tone of your ques-
tion I can tell that you and your

Roommate from hell!

Student deals with strained living conditions

The point is to ﬁnd some way to get her
attention and also at least momentarily
defuse the anger a little bit.

The next step after getting her attention
is to affirm her dignity.

Let her know that there are things about
her you respect.

Tell her that you are sure she has been
as unhappy with how things have been
going as you are.

Explain that blaming and criticizing
won’t help, but that with cooperation and
communication you can have a decent
year together.

Then tell her you want to hear her
grievances. This will be difﬁcult. But you
need to listen quietly and patiently to all
the things that annoy her about you, and
you need to do this without defending
yourself.

On the contrary, when she is ﬁnished
repeat every allegation back to her and
make sure you heard her correctly.

If you’ve made it this far you can feel
pretty good about yourself.

You’ve taken some risks. But if she’s
still with you that’s a very good sign she

proach that will

hit of good will,

domestic hell is to does wantareso-
form some sort of lutign. ' d
truce, - - -. ou nee a
The trick is H9pefu]]y’ with tact’ 'm?gl' win-win com-
finding an ap- nationandperhapsevenalittle promise, one

some Specific where each of

get her attention, . youfeels youare
enable her to save Changes 1n how 3'01! relate to better off than
face. and yield to one another can be agreed befI<_>Ire- f H
compromises that - ope u y.
both of you can upon and Implemented‘ with tact, imagi-
live with.

I will make
several assumptions: (1) If I were to hear
her side of the story she would probably
consider you narrow-minded, tedious, and
very difﬁcult to live with. (2) She, too, has
given up on talking it out because she either
is too angry or ﬁgures it won’t do any good
(or both). (3) For every grievance you have
she has one, too, which she feels proves that
you are the one to blame, not her.
Inother words, Ithink it is fairly
likely that she views you with

How can you get her attention
without infuriating her further?

I wonder if there’s something you can
do, something she is clearly not expecting,
which would please her. Perhaps it would
be cleaning the bathroom or kitchen, ﬁxing
a meal she enjoys, buying her a quart of her
favorite ice cream, or taking her out to
lunch.

 

nation and per-
haps even a little
bit of good will, some specific changes in
how you relate to one another can be
agreed upon and implemented.
Write them down.Each sign them if
you can.
Agree to meet again and discuss what is
or is not working.
Above all, avoid criticism, judgment
and hostility.
You must move from a polar-
ized position to becoming task-

as much suspicion, irritation, _ oriented.

and pessimism as you view Ifall else fails, youmay
her. try enlisting the help of a

Any attempt to point third party.

out to her the many faults A dorm counselor
she has, the inconsider- wouldbewillingto help,
ation she displays, the un- even if you aren't a
reasonableness of her be-  freshman. They have
lmvior, or“ any other -way ~ «  - been trained in conflict, - — - .
she has failed you will make 7‘ resolution. I __.I

matters worse!’ ' T Another option would be

for the two of you to see me or

Dean Schroer-Lamont. We have

considerable experience working with
roommate problems. ,

By all means show her this article.
What I'm saying to you and her is to move
past blaming or retaliating and arrive at
problem-solving. The alternative is for
each of you to have a roommate from hell.

  

Perdigon reig

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

All spectators eagerly watched as senior
Tricia Perdigon took her place at center ﬁeld as
W&L’s Homecoming queen.

“I couldn’t believe it,” Perdigon said. “I was
honored that they picked me.”

Perdigon, the president of Chi Omega, rep-
resented her sorority in the race for queen.

“We were very proud that the representative
of Chi-O can also represent W&L,” Vice Presi-
dent of Chi Omega senior Kim Murtha said.

The sorority had a stellar weekend with
senior Heather Aussiker also part of the court
and their ﬂoat winning third place.

Besides Perdigon’s involvement in her so-
rority, she is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa and the medical honor
society Alpha Upsilon Delta. ~

Perdigon plans on continuing her study of
biology in medical school.

She is looking into Vanderbilt University,
University of Virginia and Emory College as
possible places to continue her studies.

“I want to get into a ﬁeld of medicine that
involves a lot of interaction with people,” she
said.

The deciding factor of the judge’s selection
was the interview.

 

Perdigon, escorted by Cary Potts, accepts the honor of Homecoming queen.

“It was not like I was being grilled,”Perdigon
said. “It was very conversational.”
She said the judges asked her about her
future plans in medicine.
Questions also ran the gamut from politics
to religion.

ns as queen

 
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Plié

Perdigon said all the Homecoming queen
candidates had a good chance of winning.

“They were all well-rounded individuals,”
she said. “Whoever got it would be honored.
It’s one of the best courts I’ve seen in four
years.” ‘

Students visit land of rubles and vodka ,

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

Despite outdated living conditions, harass-
ment by black marketeers and public bathing, a
trip to Russia was the experience of a lifetime
for eight W&L students.

Last spring students from W&L’s Russian.
department boarded a plane in New York City
en route to St. Petersburg, previously Leningrad,
to participate in the first six-week exchange
program in Russia offered by the university.

“It was the best spring term by far,” senior
Chris Penders said. “You’ll probably only get
to do it once, so it’s worth going over there.”

The students attended three classes a day,
ﬁve days a week at the Herzen Pedagogical
University, and stayed in the university's dorms
which they said were in poor condition.

Light bulbs were scarce, a warm shower was
a rarity, and the students had to bring toilet
paper from the United States.

But, the students didn’t complain too much,
considering the relatively low cost of the trip:
$2,500for1rarrsportation, tuition, a dorm room
and miscellaneous expenses.

Financial aid for the trip was offered and
will be offered again this spring for students
already receiving aid from W&L.

Also, because, the U.S. dollar is worth much
more than the ruble, the students were able to
eat well, unlike most Russians.

“Money was not a problem in Russia. Our
currency was so much stronger,” Penders said.

However, Penders said the food didn’t meet
American standards.

“A salad over there was a plate of cucum-

bers,” Penders said. The students could not
drink the water either.

On arrival, some of the students said the
impersonal Russian guards intimidated them,
and the dismal weather was unimpressive.

“The first impression is that it’s completely
drab. The people looked absolutely miserable,”
junior Bryant Pless said.

During the second day of their stay, the
students met with the head of the university and
took tests of their
Russian profi-
ciency.

The students
then split into
groups of four for
the remainder of
the six weeks and
attended classes
such as news read-
ing, Russian gram-
mar and conversa-
tion, television
watching and mu-
sical phonics.

By the end of
the trip, the students said they had noticed a
deﬁnite language improvement among them-
selves.

When the students were not attending classes,
they were seeing the sights in St. Petersburg,
such as the Peter Paul fortress, or touring the
Kremlin, Gorky Park and a former KGB build-
ing in Moscow.

Originally, the visit to Moscow was not part
of the scheduled events during the trip, but the
students were able to get $5 tickets on Aeroﬂot,
the only Russian airline.

Penders

 

Pless said they got the tickets by bribing the
ticket saleswoman.

Although the price of airline tickets seemed
inexpensive to them, it was a quarter of a
Russians monthly wages, and the ﬂight itself
was rather unpleasant experience.

“I pulled down the tray table to write sort
postcards, and there was about ﬁve years of
ﬁlth on it,” Penders said.

On the streets, black marketers and children
seeking American goods barraged the students.
Pless said the students were easy targets.

“You couldn ’t walk down the street 50 yards
without someone asking you to buy a watchi’
he said.

However, the students took advantage of
their friendships with the black marketers and
learned some tricks to exchanging currency
and buying goods on the street.

The group was also able to befriend Ameri-
cans in Russia.

“We met a lot of Americans on the street.
You know who the Americans are because
they’re clean,” senior Laura Howard said.

The group ran into some problems with

security."

Twice, someone broke into the six male
students’ room and stole a camera, blazer any
razors, among other items.

Overall, the trip allowed the students to
become totally immersed in Russian society
and culture.

They waited in long lines for food as most
Russians do every day, and the group even went
to a public bath for 15 cents.

“It wasn '1 [the baths] too bad if you didnﬁ
mind a bunch of old naked men sitting around
drinking beer,” Penders said.

4000+ eyes 
could be reading |

your ad I
in this space.

- we

‘ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

' BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

‘ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' lN—STORE SERVICE CENTER

’ MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

| Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

SERVICE MOST BRANDS

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond

Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

130 S. Main St.

 

Back - Giant

463-7969

VARNER 8: POLE

For your extra pieces

Furniture Dealers
of furniture»

463-2742

115 S. Main St., Lexigyn

 

Having the goblins and goulies over?
Let us custom design Halloween Invitations!
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

3'. PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX

125 W. NELSON ST. - LEXINCTI‘ ON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

#: 463-6918 Q

     

Send your letters to the editor

The Ring-tum

University Center room 208.

  

to
Phi,

Make or Diﬁerence...

TEACH   l

IES can make a difference as you begin your teaching career. We will provide you with A I I
information about teaching in a private school, honest assessment of your competitiveness,

and recommendations about your candidacy.

WE WILL BE VISIT WASHINGTON & LEE

UNIVERSITY:

OCTOBER 28- INFORMATION SESSION

0
OCTOBER 29- INTERVIEWS

IES assists private schools in locating talented teachers. Last year we helped over 400 college seniors ,

tackle the challenges of a teaching job search. As the only nonprofit teacher placement agency, we are

committed to independent schools and teachers. No application or placement fees charged to college seniors.

Contact your Career Office for more infomtation and an interview appointment. If you have any questions,

please telephone Kirk Russell or Brooke Burns at (800) 257-5102. '

« I

..

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES 0 353 NASSAU ST. 0 PRINCETON, NJ 08540 0 (800) 257-5102

  

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8; 1992

   

- Ring-‘tum Phl, October 8, 1992

I

I" - er 0 unselors

.tudents helping students co

By Farm TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

In

Do you ever feel like you need to

. k?

Washington and Lee has 28 stu-
c ents trained to lend a sympathetic car.

“No expert-. ‘ICC is necessary to be-
- me a peer counselor,” junior head
cougselor Mary Goetz said. “The big-
gest factor is that you must be ap-
proachable. A peer counselor has to be
ready and open. They are people who
listen.”

Worth initiated the peer counseling
program ﬁve years ago in response to

o 's ncem that students were reluc-
- t to search for professional help
from faculty and staff members.

“I felt many students were uncom-
fortable discus sing awkward situations
such as substance abuse and sexual
behavior, ” Worth said.

His solution was to provide peer
counselors who were trained in listen-
ing skills, problem solving and making
referrals to professional counselors.
Many counselors say they have al-
ways been a sounding board for their
friends.

“I have always enjoyed talking to
frieﬁds and helping people,” said sopho-
more peer counselor Kris Fegenbush.
“I was the shoulder to cry on all my
life. I wanted to be a peer counselor so
I could get some training to really help
people I knew and even those I didn’t
know, " said Goetz.

R11 peer counselors must undergo
intensive and continual training.

“We have atwo- day training period
during an early September weekend.
After this program, counselors attend
monthly Sunday afternoon meetings.”
University Psychologist James Worth
saib.

Attendance is also encouraged at all
social and mental health presentations

that come to campus, he said.

A The chief responsibility of a peer
counselor is to listen to a student’s
conﬂict and assist hint in coming to a
coitlusiori on his own.

Counselors have been instructed not
to offer advice.

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

“You never lose control of your

Peer counselors partlclpate In a role-playing sesslon in Fairfax Lounge.

destiny with the peer counselor pro-
gram. They will not take a moral
position. They are not a Dear Abby
outlet, nor are they advice givers. They
are listeners that will help you solve
your own problems, ” Worth said.

The counselor will then arrange a
meeting.

Worth encourages students to use
the program and is willing to anony-
mously match students with peer coun-
selors. «

There are sev- “ You can call
eral ways to reach a counselor for a
a peer counselor. W ““““—"‘j—*‘-T little problem,

A student can orth encourages stu- like how to re-
ea“ the number dents to use the program SP°“" in “ ‘PC’

under the peer
counse1or’s pic-
ture which are on

and is willing to anony-
mously match students

cific social situa-
tion, to bigger is-
sues, like the con-

posters that were - sequences of try-
postegthis week with peer counselors. gpafcghmmgug,
aroun campus. 0 sai .
Students can Peer counsel-
also walk up to a ors agree that

counselor in person.

Carol Calkins or Health Services
will anonymously schedule an appoint-
ment with the counselor of the student’s
choice.

l

maintaining objectiveness is the most
difficult aspect of their job.

“Knowing you can’t give advice
and not interjecting your personal feel-
ings is hard,” said Fegenbush.

rl)E/m\i/7lEQERS [NUEEYLLE “

' N5

. TEE:

Replacements 4
. Repairs
Adjustments
Contacts
Exams Arranged -

 

   
  
 
  

Q)£ﬂl’l/IEK5 .’r7lLL£f)’Q3‘Z15I9\[£55 5‘E9{_’l/I C175 _
no 203 9\[. {Main Street - 463-9.455

Word Processing - Typing
Resumes - Cover Letters - Envelopes
" , Print From Your Disk I
Newsletters - Transcription

Binding - Fax - UPS

    
 
  

Dr.’ 'll'acy Freeman
Optometrist

Eye Examinations - By Appt.
464-1888 or 463-7440

463-7440

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

 

FEATURES

 

 

 

e ACROSS
1 Yodelers place
5 Drift
10 Serene
‘ , .w 0 I t h 14 Ship builder
pointed out that 15 pmgeis
peercounselors 16 B_uftaIo‘s lake
are not trained 133 3'3" °' bag
forprofessional 19 Cozy home
counselmg and 20 Place for
are not replace- Veellng ares
ments for gen- 22 3:“: °‘ 9'
efal S13-fﬂ _ 24 Sealarer
Peer (man. 25 Gentleman
selors can see a 53 ‘SR9
studentnomore 32 scale
than threetimes 36 Close
before referrals 3; Exam in
aremadetopro- 40 Ems p
fessionals. 41 — culpa
Peer coun- 42 P‘UPnDe‘ 0“ 3
selors have 44 gggaen,
Silifieéiipiiéil  
' ' ' as I
"°“t°1‘S‘°“m3 48 Beatty ol films 8 Arouse Last week's answers:
10 $mdCmS- 50 Atmosphere: 9 Slaves of yore
“They go to pref. 10 Telephone
Heanhsewices 22-... .. s:.°:::i9e
dell)! to be of Zulu 12 |‘.em—by—:ten'l
service to any 59 Came to earth series
smdemsstaying 60 Entice l3 Apportlon
- - 62 — it (amen) 21 Levy
mthemﬁrmafy‘ 63 Man or Wight 23 Suspires
They are will- 64 Cancel 26 "What's in -4"
ing to do any- 65 Thought 27 Katmandu land
thing from just 66 Ndmex. resort   lmllgrgk
Sitting d°w“ 67 Hot rod group
and talking for 68 Dickens girl 30 Heated contest
awhile ‘° Pi°“' DOWN 3% csiifiiiﬂites
mg, up 32 we mean} cone from Sweet 1 Hill colonists 34 Expend
Things, Worth said. 2 Appear in 35 Leaders of old
Peer counselors have also become threatening 37 Outlaw _t 49. P I 54 Anmoxms
involved with °d“°‘“i°,“a1 efforts 3 lgnmy snack  ll-?lrilr‘lendg | em 50 L2?" 55 Church part
around campus and special duty as- 4 protect 43 Fires up 51 Fisherman's 56 Cipher
signments, suchas accompanying stu- Z Erienéiless one 44  love - 52 Eeend f t 2; zggfaéygrlfg,
- ‘ - I e IO ess o no e -
ggnstjiflo the hospital for AIDS testing’ 7 Abgss 47 That girl 53 Storage shed 61 Fellow
The peer counselors agree that the
program is a worthwhile and reward- a
ing experience. '
.1 Wm de,.m,,e,y come mg 3 WLU R weekday radio schedule
, . .
P°°‘°9““S,?‘°'- “W? 5 “° ‘l“°S“°“ m Morning Mag (Rock) — Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.
my mind Goetz said
,, , ' ' , . Jazz - Monda , 9 a.m.—1la.m.; Monda -Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-l 1 :30 a.m.
It sa eat ro ram Imsenousl y - y-
th. . go tp 3 . ' d 3’ AM Overture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.
mklllga “ be”. mmg.a. orm °°‘.m' Inspirational — Thursday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.
selor in the future in addition to being - - -
,, . Public Affairs —Monda tlirou h Frida , 11 a.m.-11:30 am.
1 Y 8 Y
a [I,’..°I°.1§] cmmse °" fegenbush .sa3d' Country - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
6 Pee’ °°““se °.” 3°‘ "ammg Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
out of this ro am which hel s them -
d dph 3’ 1 up m Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.
un “Sta: bleenmf “';S:shw°.daS,,‘i.h' Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
6.“ “inc . Mr’ ° .53’ ' ° Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6p.m.-9 p.m.
listenm skills the learn will hel them - -
. . 3 . y . P. ,, Third Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.
in their future jObS and relationships.

  SENIORS

Do you want to work in any of thse cities?

Washington Philadelphia
New Y0Tk San Francisco
Chicago
The Selective Liberal Arts Consortium (SLAC) .‘ V
JOB FAIRS are for you,  
with impressive numbers of good companies: , I‘ " §l0$9T_th0"
~ ~ you think!

Chicago — January 4 (M) - 21 organizations
Washington - January 5 (T) - 23 organizations
New York - January 6-7 (W-Th) - 31 organizations
San Francisco - January 11 (M) - 8 organizations
Philadelphia - January 13 (W) - 12 organizations

DEADLINE: FRIDAY, OCT. 23 RESUMES DUE

To review company descriptions and learn
about submitting resumes, come to the
Career Development and Placement Office

Halloween
Cards

Hand-dipped
Chocolates

  

Pottery Pumpkin
Candleholders

117 W. Nelson St.

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY THEATRE
LENFEST CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

THE KELLER THEATRE

BOX OFFICE 463-8000

W 8: L Stud nts Facul and Staff
Washin ton 8: Lee Universitv

NAME

 

ADDRESS

 

W,   THE IMAGINARY INVALID

A HILARIOUS COMEDY BY MOLIERE

TAKE 1 (ONE) PERFORMANCE:
Nightly at 8 PM on October 22, 24, 26 & 27

Daily at 2 PM on October 24 &: 25

REFILL 5 TIMES

1)r. /‘?l[ Garden

DISPENSE A's WRITTEN

TICKETS AVAILABLE NOW!
VOLUNTARY FORMULARY PERMITTED

     
     
    
     
      

     
  

‘ 1 ‘J-’-—’-“44-re‘ \ ,. u...-a./-.a...~.»m...o.n...'.~. -L
' _ -_ . _ _ ‘____ .__ _ __ ___ ’_,« .——...-.-._._...._...—_—..-i...—...~.-.w........_-...-.....- - - -- _---— — - .. . - -— - ..-- - gym.-— ..-mu.-- ....~.,.-9-..------—.-.."----..-q--’_..---o..-.....-.-.—-.-a.:..—¢..——._ -——

...-._ ..-....-_--_ _ As .._.-_¢_...~.¢4..-.9

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 19 '

NEWS

T.J. Daly, '92, cavorts with the clowns during Saturday's speedy Homecoming parade.

Parade ‘went kind of fast’

By Toivi HESPOS
Phi Contributing Writer

If W&L students were asked to describe Saturday's
Homecoming parade, most would do it in three words: short
but sweet.

“It went kind of fast. A couple of people we invited chose
not to participate,” said Tom Hooper, president of Kathekon,
the organization that sponsored the parade along with the
Alumni Office.

W&L’s ﬁrst Homecoming parade in over 20 years ended

I when Lambda Chi AIpha’s ﬂoat, the last one in the parade,

crossed in front of the grandstand 28 minutes after the
parade started. According to Hooper, the impact of the
parade was not blunted by its short duration.

“[The parade] left everyone in good spirits,” said Hooper,
“Hopefully it will be that much better next year.”

Kappa Kappa Gamma won this year’s award for best
ﬂoat. Kappa’s ﬂoat depicted a boxing match between a
Confederate general and Randolph-Macon’s yellowjacket
mascot, complete with a ring announcer to excite the crowd.

The ﬂoats were judged on spirit, originality and design

by a four—member committee consisting of W&L professors
Lamar Cecil, Thomas Nye, John Wielgus and Dean Laurent
Boetsch.

Kappa President Walton Eagan said a 15-member com-
mittee headed by junior Mary Adickes builtthe ﬂoat in three
days.
Eagan said building the ﬂoat was “a lot of fun. We ’re
excited about winning.”

Floats this year included Southern Comfort and JubiLee
singing the W&L Swing, Live Drive dragging beer cans
behind their trademark vans and Phi Delta Theta in a replica
of a Viking Longship.

The noise level on the street increased when Lexington’s
Auto Towing and Repair ﬂoat passed by. The ﬂoat con-
sisted of one of the company’s trucks towing W&L security
officer Thomas “Baner” Bane’s familiar blue pickup truck.

Other parade participants included.the Lylbum Downing
Middle School Marching Band, the Rockbridge County
High School Marching Band and the Rockbridge County,
Natural Bridge and Lexington fire departments.

Hooper said he hopes the Homecoming Parade will
become an annual tradition.

“We had a good turnout,” he said. “It went real well.”

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

The founder of the W&L Gay and
Lesbian Alliance says he was attacked
Saturday in what he calls an incident of
“gaybashing.”

Sean Bugg, '89, had a warrant is-
sued against Charles T. Gay for assault
and battery after a fight Saturday at the
Sigma Nu house. .

“Charles Gay shoved me, yelled
‘you're not welcome here,’ then
punched me in the face,” Bugg told
Lexington Magistrate Charlene Worley
early Sunday morning. The warrant
was served on Gay Sunday at about 4
a.m.

Gay, '89, said Tuesday he did not
wish to comment on the incident.

Bugg said Tuesday that he went to
Sigma Nu on Saturday to see what the
house looked like after being reno-
vated. Bugg and Gay are both Sigma
Nu alumni.

Bugg said he was at a band party in
the basement when Gay “came out of
the crowd” at him.

Bugg said Gay yelled at him, called
him homosexual, shoved him twice
and hit him in the left side of his face.

Sigma Nu member Heath Dixon,
who was the sober officer Saturday,
said he did not see the beginning of the
ﬁght. He said the first thing he saw was

 
 
 

 

Bugg and Gay grappling with each
other.

“One person was pulling Sean away
and two were pulling Charlie,” Dixon
said. “Charlie seemed like he was ﬁn-
ished. Sean was trying to break loose
and at one point he did, and kicked
Charlie in the hea ."

Dixon said
Gay left after
the fight and
that Bugg was
asked repeat-
edly to leave the
partybut would
not.

- “ I B u g g I
kept saying, ‘I
can be here if I
want. I’m a
member in
good standing.
If he comes back here, I'll rip his head
off,”’ Dixon said.

“I lost my temper,” Bugg said. “I
nonnally don’t like violence. But I
don't like being hit, especially if I’m
being hit because I’m gay.” _

Dixon said that when he asked Gay
and Bugg to leave he did not know who
either of them were or if they were
Sigma Nu members.

Dixon said that when Bugg was
discovered to be homosexual his se-
nior year, he was asked to dissociate
himself from the chapter.

W&L GALA founder gets in fight

“From whatlunderstand, some guys
were uncomfortable with the fact that
he was homosexual, particularly be-
cause he had kept it a secret,” Dixon
said. I I

Bugg said he was forcedto leave the
house, but was never formally taken
off the rolls.

“I was threatened and told to leave
but I am still a member,” Bugg said.

Some Sigma Nu members believe
Bugg went to the house Saturday night
looking for a fight.

“He knew there were a bunch of
alumni who did not want him there,”
Sigma Nu president Mark VanDuesen
said. “He came down there, in my
opinion, to provoke an incident.”

“He was just trying to start trouble,”
Dixon said. “He knew other alumni
were there. He was looking to start a
ﬁght.”

Bugg refutes such charges.

“That’s ridiculous,” Bugg said. “I
was curious about the house. I was
getting ready to leave when [Gay] hit
me.”

Bugg said the fight was the only
negative incident during the weekend,
which he spent drumming up support
for W&L GALA.

“I got great feedback from the ad-
ministration, the faculty and the stu-
dents,” Bugg said. “The thing to re-
member is that this happened with an
alum.”

Domino’s accepts University cards

By PAULINE Mrm f
Phi Contributing Writer

     
        
   

erything else, why not
pizza?,” senior Ben Gangloff said.

     
   

   
  

qt

 

WASHINCTONAND IQE

\ Students can put money on

the general debit account

in the Business Office.
According to a ﬂyer ex-

'I'he bloodshot army of stu- UNIVERSIW plaining the new service,
dents struggling to satisfy the students should indicate
late-night munchies in Lex— they wish to use their card
ington willﬁndtheir dilemma when ordering. They
3 bit easier. should then give their stu-
1 No cash. No car. No prob- dent number and Domino’s

em. will verify their account.

Domino’s Pizza now ac- 9 Whenthepizzaanives, stu-
izjepts Vtlasléingéon and Lee D O  N O S dents must show the driver

niversity at s. I 1 their card. The driver will

“Our parents pay for ev-  have a slip for them to add

a tip, total, and sign.

Director of University Services James Johndron said

Domino’s employee John Matheny said the service was
added for the convenience of W&L students and to reduce

the number of bad checks they receive.

Domino’s began using a card computer on Sept. 27 to let
students pay for pizza from their general debit account, the
account most students use to pay for food in the Co-op.

students should keep their receipts and, in case of a problem,
take them to the W&L Business Office.

Johndron said Pizza Hut and Frank’s King of Pizza had
expressed interest in the system. Other businesses, such as
dry cleaners and grocery stores, might also take University
Cards in the future. '

To keep up with the Generals. read sports every week in

The Ring-tum Phi

 

HarrIs1‘   
IINNIVERSAIIYSIIIE 

      

‘El

» I . SAVE 70¢ PER LB.

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS

SPLIT FRYER

GROUND FRESH SEVERAL T
DAILY - 70% LEAN

GROUND

LIMIT 5 LBS. WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

  
 
 
 
  
      
  

 

DELI-BAKERY
VIRGINIA BAKED
HAM

SLICED TO
ORDER

STUDENT'S
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY ’
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
COURTESY CARD.

Harrisfeeter

YOUR. NAME
YOUR ADDRESS

YOUR CITY. STATE
X/X OI/OI/OI
lllllll

IIIII

 

IT ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER I34
HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
COUPON AND SAVE.

VALUABLE $1 .00 COUPON

' $ I 0 0 OFF '
I 0 I
I ANY $3.00 on MORE I
I PURCHASE IN OUR I
I FLORAL DEPARTMENT I
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
I LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER GOOD OCT. 7 THRU OCT. I3, I992
I COUPON FLORAL I
L _"‘“i _ »::2::«_ _I

Prices Effective Throu h October I3, I992

Prices In This Ad Etiective Wednesday October 7 Through uesd
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Soid To

  
  
   
    

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

IN THE DELI-BAKERY
ALL VARIETIES

FRIED PIES ..................... ..4 CT. 099 I

HT
GRAIN

O
BREAD .............. 24 oz. LOAF O9 9

PRES/DENT-'5 CHOICE
COLA .................................... ..2 IITER O
"‘ 63

157.5 SQ. FT.
ANGEL SOFT

BATH TISSUE ......... ..4ROILS 

VALUABLE 40¢ COUPON
SELECTED VARIETIES - so - 30.5 oz. JAR or

I RAGU SPAGI-IETTI I
I SAUCE I
I I‘: . I
I This Cou I I
Not Be Reg?" uuId. I
I i>i'§“r'iIf;§,Ci>‘Z.‘}‘i"I"s'.‘a» I
I U
 §I.I’.sE3;
I 7TT1ruOcIo erI3,   ; I
I992»  -__.,,.» 3o2ooo332o

I cegf EN GROCERY
I M uatttsteeter 0|
.1

IVALUABLE 70¢ coupon
RESH GROWN - 3 LB. BAG OF

I YELLOW I
I ONIONS I
I I
I g I
I .J.':‘:.§i::’.$2JI:.i. I
Limit Ogle Coupon.
I Per FSLIIM, 'P0r"Y‘|SlI I
Pu ‘ghost: 0 I0. .
I G ole; I
7 IT-{W ggg I . PLU 2080
I ' PRODUCE I
I coupon ti” I
VALUE
7 0<

  
   
  
  

DIET PEPSI on -
PEPSI caI.A

 

‘)"'

     
        
        
      
    
     
   
     
     
        
           
           
    
     

..,.;-1. .. -L.

REDUCE’)
mice

.4..._..-. - ~.__...—..a~_ . -I,» -7'4-.-.4 Lg ‘xi v'..,'~_..--

   

 

F

  

  

  

 

.__......_....._...___I

05, October I3, I992. In

  

' . O
Lexin ton st
eaIers. We Giaciiy Accept Federal togod Statihfeag.

  

    

  

= Ring-tum Phl, October 8', 1992

 

 

   

SPORTS

   
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Photos by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

counterclockwise from top to
bottom: A weary Generals’ de-
tense recelves some words of
encouragement from coach
Frank Mlriello; full back Wilson
Moore is pursued to the outside
by a group of linebackers torthe
Yellow Jackets; Geren Steiner
prepares to get rid of the ball
after avoiding the rush by the
Yellow Jackets'detenslve line-
men; Stephen Cox(40) and Phil
Spears(66) move In on the run-
ning back for the Yellow Jack-
ets.

 

.2. «"

  

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX l792‘i.PLANTATION.FL 33318

THE
SHOW
AROUND

HALFTIME

W&L falls, 31-9

Ci HOMECOMING, from page 8

pattern, and that put W&L on life-
support.

The Generals now trailed by 18 and
the onus was square on their shoulders
to come up with some offense in the
final 30 minutes.

Fallon said the touchdown opened
the door for R-MC.

“I don't know how much emotional
effect it had on the kids-but it allowed
them to do more things. You know, the
rich get richer.

“They could take more chances on
both defense and offense. But our kids
wanted another half of them, no one
was down,” said Fallon.

“This is a good rivalry, there’s no
1ove.'We wanted another shot.”

The Generals got their shot.

Freshman quarterback Matt Reedy
replaced a banged-up Steiner and led
the Generals to their first touchdown of
the game.

He hit all-American punter Bob
Ehret on a 18-yard crossing route. It
was Ehret’s second TD in as many
weeks.The two-point conversion failed
and the Generals trailed 24-9.

Fallon said he brought Reedy in
because he felt Steiner was getting

smothered.

“Things weren’t clicking.
Geren [Steiner] was getting smothered.
we just wanted to see what he could
do.”

Well, Reedy did ﬁne his first time,
and he got a second time to prove
himself.

With 3:57 to go, the generals started
to drive again. Reedy moved them down
ﬁeld with both the rim and the pass. On
a crucial fourth-and—one, Moore
showed why Fallon looks like a genius
for moving him to full back, he pow-
ered over the left side for three yards.

A couple plays later, the Generals
were inside the ten and had a third-and-
eight.

Reedy was forced to the right by the
oncoming rush and threw a desperate
pass that was picked off in the end
zone, and that was she wrote.

Fallon didn’t think the team played
a good game, but he was happy his
team didn’t give up.

He does feel the team needs work
before they go on the road to challenge
Davidson.

“I think the consensus was we didn't
play a real good game. We saw an
awful lot and we know we have to
make better adjustments,” said Fallon.

“The kids were not satisfied.”

    
 
 
 
 

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and Mastr.-rCard®
credit cards..“in your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!" and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for— ID-—BOOKS-DEPARTMENT

   
   

YES

approved lmrnedlately.

! lwant VISAQ/MASTERCI-\RD® Credit
Cards. Enclosed lind $5 which is 100% refundable if not

NAM E
ADDRESS

STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAl NM ENT-
EMERGENCY G‘\SH—-TICKETS-RESTAURAN'T'S—
HOT ELS—MOTELS——CrAS-—-CAR RENTALS-

    
 
   
  

 

MAII. ‘THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

     

REPAlRS—AND T0 BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING! CITY STATE _ ZIP
‘meant PHONE s.s.#
5”’ “ciao No credit SIGNATURE
sugﬂsgeg 6“: No security deDOSit! MTTE: MasterCard Is a registered trademark d Masiercarri lntemalioml. rm
“°u;IIt'g.¢1 0° Visa is a registered tnderrnrk d'VlSA usa. Inc and VISA lnktrmtional
9 Approval absolutely guaranteed so gm” nurgron .

100°/o GUARANTEED!

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCEE!
Individuals and Student Organizations
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation’s1eider. Inter-Campus

Programs 1-800-327-6013

RAISE A COOL
$1000
IN JUST ONE WEEK!
PLUS ‘I000 FORTHE

MEMBER WHO CALLS!
No obligation. No cost.

You also get a FREE
HEADPHONE RADIO

just for calling

GREEKS 3. CLUBS

1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65

 

This Week:

Football— at Davidson 10/10

Last Week:
Fooball- R—MC 31,W&L 9 (1-2)

  
  

flint ﬁling-mm iﬂlri

WP- AK--LR 13.W&L 11 (3-6) WP- at Nav Invitational 10/ 10&1l
M SOC- W&L 2.H-S 0 (4-4) M Soc- at reensboro 10/ 10

W Soc- Sweet Briar 1.W&L 0 (2-7) W Soc- Gett sburg, 10/10, 2pm

W Ten- W&L 9.R-MC 0 (2-0) M Ten- w& Fall Classic10/10&l1

CC- (M) 9th,(W) 2nd at Frostbrg

PAGE 8

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

VB- B’water 10/8 6pm;at Goucher 10/10

OCTOBER 8, 19%‘ I

 
 

Yellow Jackets spoil W&L Homecoming  

-M defenserecrs eigt sacks; Generas o

Generals defense swarms over the Yellow Jackets’ wide receiver Garry Carter on an attempted

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

By SEAN O’RoURKr~:
Phi Sports Editor

Saturday’s game against the
Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets was
not as big a blowout as the ﬁnal indi-
cated. The game was actually still com-
petitive until the final minute-and-a-
half.

The Generals played the second-
best, maybe even the best, team in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference and
lost the same way they did to Emory &
Henry.

R-MC beat the Generals with size
and speed and talent.

Any team that can register eight
sacks on Geren Steiner has to have
some size, speed and talent, especially
R-MC’sJack Miscall who recorded six
of the eight.

Even head coach Gary Fallon and
his coaching staff realized the Yellow
Jackets were an excellent team.

“Both our offensive and defensive
staff felt they outmarmed us,” said
Fallon. “They are big and strong and
they wear you down.”

The Generals started off quickly for
the third straight game. On the first
play from scrimmage, sophomore line-
backer Stephen Cox intercepted the
pass from R-MC’s john Smith and re-
turned it to the Yellow Jackets’ 26-
yard line.

The Generals’ first possession

reverse. The Generals defensive line had a tough day handling the larger and faster offensive line for woum really set me tone for me yes; of

Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jackets gained 216 yards on the ground and 147 yards through the air.

Kerrell Bryant led the way for the Yellow Jackets with 92 rushing yards on the day.

Men’s soccer finds
success on the road

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

While the Generals football team
continues to look for its first triumph at
Wilson Field since 1990, the men’s
soccer team is in no hurry to return
home.

With their 2-0 victory over
Hampderi-SydneyCollege Wednesday,
the Generals improved to 4-4 on the
season, 2-2 in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play. All four wins have
come on the road.

“We played really well,” said se-
nior tri-captain Reid Murphy. “We’re
getting better every game.”

Murphy, the team’s leading scorer,
assisted on the Generals’ first goal,
netted by fellow tri-captain Kyle Fan-
ning. It was Fanning’s first goal this
year and the sixth of his career.

Sophomore Eric Tracy gave Wash-
ington and Lee a two-goal cushion
Junior John Robinson got his first-ever
assist on Tracy’s goal.

The blanking was goaltender Mike
Steinbrook’s fourth of the season, leav-
ing him three shutouts short of the
school's single-season record.

Steinbrook has been on his game
since yielding nine goals in two games
two weeks ago. He’s only given up one
goal over W&L~’s last three games.

Four days before the Ti gers,though,
the Generals traveled to what head
coach Rolf Piranian called “the real
lion's den.” '

The team headed south to take on
Roanoke College ,who entered the game
with only one loss this year.

“We’re going to have to play ﬂaw-
less to beat them,” Piranian said be-
forehand.

For 90 minutes, Steinbrook was
ﬂawless. Fresh off of a shutout of East-

ern Mennonite, Steinbrook kept
Roanoke out of the net for all of regu-
lation. With the score knotted at 0-0,
the game was forced into overtime.

Steinbrook’s scoreless string of over '

200 minutes was ended 6:03 into the
ﬁrst extra period by Roanoke sopho-
more Andy Smith, and the Maroons
held on for a 1-0 win. “Steinie” re-
corded 1 2 saves and, with Wednesday’s
shutout, holds an outstanding goals-

 

against-average of 1.50.

“We played really well against
Roanoke,” said Murphy. “The result
was unfortunate, though.”

The Generals have evened up both
their conference record and their over-
all mark, and after Saturday's game
versus Greensboro, the Generals will
play the remainder of their regular sea-
son at Liberty Hall Fields.

Saturday’s game could also put se-
nior Mike Mitchem in the Generals’
record book.

Mitchem remains two assists shy of
equaling the W&L all-time assists
record.

Ideally,he’dliketobreakitathome,
and he’ll get that chance on Tuesday
against Randolph-Macon.

the game.
W&L’s first play was full back

Volleyball earns
first ODAC win

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Contributing Writer

W&L completed its first
unblemi shed week of the season by
defeating all three opponents they
faced.

The Generals entered the week
winless in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference at 0-2.

But after two victories over con-
ference teams, W&L’s record now
stands at 2-2 in the ODAC, and 7-9
overall.

W&L started the week off against
Roanoke. The teams split the first
two games, but when Roanoke cap-
tured the third game 15-12, W&L’s
hopes for christening the ODAC
win column at the expense of their
I-81 rivals seemed distant.

The Generals kept their compo-
sure, though, and captured the ﬁnal
two games in impressive fashion,
15-6 and 15-11.

It was sort of a redemption for
the Generals, who lost to defending
ODAC champion Guilford in the
fifth game.

The experience from that loss
might have helped them come up
with this victory.

Head coach Kristi Yarter said
the team came up with some timely
blocking during the Roanoke
match..

“We blocked well as a team ver-
sus Roanoke, and it affected their
timing.”

Freshmen Chrissie Hart and
Cheryl Taurassi led the Generals
offensive barrage. Hart ﬁnished
with 11 kills, while Taurassi dished

out 25 assists.

In the nightcap, W&L asserted
themselves against Mary Baldwin
team, waxing them 15-2 in the first
game. In the second game, the
entire team saw substantial playing
time as the Generals notched a 16-
14 win to take the shorter non-
conference 2-of-3 game match.

Again, the tandem of first year
standouts led the team in kills and
assists. Hart had 8 kills, while
Taurassi notched 17 assists.

Wednesday proved to be the sec-
ond test of W&L’ s ODAC mettle in
the span of a week, as the Generals
traveled to Lynchburg to face
Randolph-Macon Women's Col-
lege. The team lost only one game
en route to a 15-11, 8-15, 15-7, 15-
12 win.

Despite the win, the team was
not overly pleased with its play.

“We didn’t play well, nor were
we satisﬁed, but Randolph-Macon
was erratic, and that made us er-
ratic.”

Tonight, the volleyball will try
to continue their winning ways
when they take on ODAC foe
Bridgewater at6p.m.in the Warner
Center.

 

 

Photo & Video Imaging

Get a new image...ln A Flash
20x30 COLOR PHOTO POSTER

$24.95 WITH COUPON

    

 

FROM YOUR 55MM COLOR NEGATIVE
POSTERS FROM SLIDES OR PRINTS ALSO AVAILABLE

, 14 E. Campbell Ave.
Roanoke, VA 24013

1-800-537-5227  

ffense can only manage 197 yards

Wilson Moore up the middle. Gain of
one yard.

The second play, Steiner is forced
out of the pocket and has to throw it
away to avoid the sack. Third down
and nine.

Steiner drops back to pass, is ﬂushed
outofthepocketagain,andhashispass
broken up by defensive back Harry
Mum.

On fourth down, Fallon decided to
gamble and try a 42-yard ﬁeld goal.
The Generals had not successfully con-
verted on a ﬁeld goal attempt since
1990. .

Sophomore Marc Newman changed
all that. He split the up-rights with a
perfectly struck ball and put the Gener-
als ahead, 3-0.

It looked as if the Generals were
going to repeat their successes against
Centre the week before. But it was not
to be.

W&L couldn’t get anything going
on offense and Fallon says it was a
combination of their defense and our
offense.

“We had to execute better offen-
sively. When we have opportunities,
we have to make something happen,”
said Fallon.

“However, blocking was real prob-
lem. Some of their players were above
ours, especially that 92(Miscall). He
had a great day; he was definitely a
level or two above our kids."

The Yellow Jackets would then turn
their own version of the “Hogs” loose
on the Generals ’ defensive front seven.

R-MC threw four different runners a
the Generals and it definitely did lhk
trick.

On their third possession, R-M
drove down the ﬁeld with 11 of d '
plays coming on the ground. They
scored on a quarterback keeper, and
the Yellow Jackets would lead 7-3, and
never trail again.

“We just made some mistakes at thr
wrong time,” said Fallon. “They hit i’
where we weren’t and when that I
pens, there’s not much you can do.”

R—MC would score on their next
possession, but the real killer came on ‘
their ﬁnal drive of the half.

The Generals had played the Yel- ‘

low Jackets even for the remainder of
the half and only trailed 14-3 wherii
MC took over with 1:59 on the clock
They started 80 yards from paydirt,
and the way the defense had played or
the previous two possessions, it looked .
like the Generals would go in only
trailing by l 1.
But it was not meant to be.

R-MC ran Kerrel Bryant for T1 .

back—up QB Andrew Bush hit wide '
out Garry Carter for 13, plus an extra
15 for a late hit penalty, that moves the .
Yellow Jackets to the W&L 40; fou, ,_
plays later, Bush threw the ball dowi "4
the right sideline and Eric Lewis 4 j
a great diving catch for a gain of 1 _
two plays after that, Bush hit David ”
Hughes in the end zone on a timing

El See HOMECQMING, page 7

Women’s soccer falls’
in sixth straight

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Not even the return of last year’s
all-conference goalie could break the

’ women's soccer team out of their six-

game losing streak.

“It’s been so long since we’ve won
and a long time since we’ve scored that
we ‘re playing not to lose and playing a
little scar ” said head coach Janine
Hathom.

Junior Kate Stirneling’s reappear-
ance in goal bolstered the Generals
defense.

Stimeling, who played halfback for
the ﬁrst ﬁve games, took over in goal
for freshman Mirns Rowe eight min-
utes into last week's 3-1 loss to
Roanoke.

Rowe allowed two goals before a
slight knee injury forced her from the

e.

The Generals defense turned up the
intensity with Stirneling’s arrival.

“Kate instilled conﬁdence in them
with her skill and experience,” said
Hathom.

The Generals kept pace during the
remaining 82 minutes of play.

Freshman Jenni Robison’s goal was
the only offense W&L could muster on
the afternoon.

Last Saturday's Homecoming loss
to a powerful Mary Washington squad
resembled the Roanoke game closely.

The Generals played evenly with
the Eagles for 80 of the 90 rriinutes.

The only letdown came early in the
second half when they gave up three
quick goals.

Last Tuesday, the Generals returned
to Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play at Sweet Briar College.

Despite outshooting them 20-5,

 
   

\ \
\

,too. It’sjust

V 

  at>Po9io9-90*‘

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

; and Accessories
%  gltaln  24450 (703) 463-5988
n on.
a /

 z

W&L couldn’t match an early goal‘oy ‘

Sweet Briar and lost a real heartbreaker, “
1-0. A

The loss dropped the Generals to 2- j ‘i

4 in the ODAC and 2-7 overall.
Hathorn looks towards Saturday’s
2 p.m. game with Gettysburg College
with 0pti- 0 _
mism. * ' 
“I feel
very posi-
tive,” said
H a t h o r n .
“They’re a
good team, ,
but we are

   

a matter of
the girls get- .
ting it to- ‘ “
gether and Stimeling
being ready. It’s a good situation grd
we’ll play well.” ,

The Generals defense of juniors As-
pen Yawars, Allison Lewis, Kathleen
Eastland and sophomore Marina Jack-

son looked sharp last week in front of .

Stimeling.

Stimeling ﬁnished with and inc3:d-
ible 32 saves in her first two games
back in goal.

Stimel ing wanted to play in the ﬁeld
this year, but will probably remain in
goal for the rest of the season.

“She’s a true competitor and does
what it takes to help the team win,"§aid
Hathom. “It’s impressive what s e's
doing to help us out.” i

The slump hasn’t dampened their
desire to work hard and to win.

“They’re working harder in prac-
tice than any W&L team I've ever
coached,” said Hathom. -

“I strongly believe that we're gtﬁng
to win some games. They just need to
hang in there.”

    
 

 \

-—just one affair-
womorrs formal wear for hire

of washlngton, dc '

is returning to Lexington on
OCTOBER 11, 1992

for our end-of-season

BLOWOUT SALE!

Designer Formal Dresses & Gowns on Sale!
Prices start at $49!
Ramada Inn 0 Exit 195 off 81
4 miles north of Lexington

Noon to 5 p.m. - All sales ﬁnal
Pay by check. AMEX. V|SA. MC

For info please call
202-686-7255

 

 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  

‘mt: umvsasm Lteamr
WA’§¥l'lNGTONt& me wwanam
iexmerom, VA. 24450

ON THE DOUBLE

A W&L Junior and His Twin Brother
Try to Bridge the Gap Between

the Minks and Cadets

Running Even

Generals Pound Davidson,
Bring Record to 2-2

U112 iiting-tum {ﬂirt

l

't.uMe 92, NO. 6

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 15, 1992

hi Delt meals, parties suspended for term

A nationals puts W&L chapter on social probatio

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

e$hI Delta Theta house has been damaged several times since
s renovation was completed In 1991.

By NANCY PAVLOVIC
Phi Contributing Writer

Phi Delta Theta’s house corporation suspended
all chapter functions for the remainder of fall term to
punish the chapter for damage done to their house
during Homecoming weekend.

Also, Kappa Alpha was put on social probation
for the rest of fall term by their national organization
for violating alcohol policy during Tear Weekend.

The Interfraternity Council Tuesday approved
putting Phi Delt on “extensive social probation” for
damage done at a party with Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delt
President Jim Eddings said. During the party, a $500
chair was broken when a Beta alum and a Phi Delt
brother fell on it while wrestling. Eddings also said
partitions between stalls in an upstairs bathroom
were pulled out of the wall by a sophomore Phi Delt
pledge. A
In addition to being prohibited from holding so-
cial events, Phi Delt must close its kitchen. Eddings

said members’ food money will be refunded. Only
men who live at the fraternity house will be allowed
inside.

Members who broke the chair will pay for a
replacement, Eddings said.

“Extensive social probation is not the worst they
could do to us, but it is still serious,” Eddings said.
“We are not going to be a social entity until we clean
up our act."

Eddings said Phi Delt was already on social pro-
bation for rush violations when the damage occurred.
He said Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins came to inspect the house

the morning after the party, after he received a call-

from a house corporation member.

“Basically, he told us we ought to start packing
our bags,” Eddings said.

Atkins said the damage was just the most recent in
a string of incidents at Phi Delt.

“It was a minor incident, but there have been a
number of minor incidents at Phi Delt in the past,"
Atkins said.

n forbuying alcohol, serving minors

Eddings acknowledged that Phi Delt has a history
of damaging their newly renovated house since they
moved in January 1991.

“It’s mostly stupid little boy stuff, ” Eddings said.
“Every fraternity breaks things, but at Phi Delt we do
it more often.”

Phi Delt’s housemother said she believes the
members deserved the punishment.

“Closing the kitchen and taking their parties away
would not seem fair if it was just everyday wear and
tear, but this was deliberate damage to the chair and
wall,” Mata McGuire said. “The house corporation
had every reason to punish them because it was
deliberate.”

Some members said the house corporation was
pressured by the administration to impose such a
harsh sentence.

“Atkins told the house corporation how serious he
took the situation and they're trying to equal his
feelings via the punishment,” said a member who

0 See PHI DELT, page 6

‘ CLU renews
'.tdget battle

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

C
W&L’s ACLU President Andrew Schneider demanded
onday that the EC re-evaluate its decision to deny his
A cup funding. Also, an EC member suggested that students
ight pay their car taxes in community service hours.
Schneider resubmitted hisoriginal budget request of
. 1,250, saying that the second request more clearly outlined
< e gctivities the American Civil Liberties Union chapter
-as planned for the campus.
Scheduled events include speak-outs outside the Co-op,
ebates, films and panel discussions, Schneider said.
The Executive Committee L t W ' ’
voted to table discussion on the . . ._  _
- CLU until Oct. 19. EC President
os MacFarland said the issue is
ot ow much the EC will give the
CLU, but whether they will fund
.e group at all.
MacFarland said he would like
0 research the ACLU more and
‘cl he hopes the rest of the EC
ill too.
§ctmeider said the ACLU wants _
0 get students more involved with s°h"°'de"
e Bill of Rights and that a liberal arts university has an
0 bligation to educate its students about national and interna-
'onal issues.
Schneider said every ACLU college chapter receives
oney from their school. In addition, he said the ACLU has
I ev9r endorsed or opposed any political candidate and
erefore cannot be accused of being partisan.

Schneider said the ACLU is not different from Amnesty
International, which received $700 from the BC.

In other business, junior EC Rep. Jimmy Kull said he met
with Dean of Students David L. Howison and Director of
Communications Brain Shaw to discuss a plan that would
allow students to work off their car tax in community service
hours.

Kull said both Howison and Shaw like the idea, but both
said they believe Mayor H. E. “Buddy” Derrick would not.
Kull said he will meet with Derrick soon.

The plan would be “a two-win situation,” Kull said.

The EC also took a second vote on the budget and passed
it uianimously. But the committee postponed deciding on
a mechanism for the Contact Committee co-sponsorship
fund.

5
.1
-. A

g ' — I ‘ mt.-.,'i nummttm
- _j‘ . ._ m. mauauutummmnvt/I“

The class of '43 will raise $175,000 to build a brick wall at the corner of Washington

and Jefferson streets.

‘Friendly wall’ to border W&L

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee’s front campus will get a
face lift this winter, thanks to the class of '43.

The university armounced plans last week to
build a three to four foot brick wall along Wash-
ington and Jefferson streets to replace the black
metal railing that currently borders the front cam-
pus.

W&L Director of Capital Planning Frank Par-
sons presented plans for the wall to the Lexington
Planning Commission last Thursday.

“That railing has been part of our campus for
so long that it's almost invisible,” Parsons said.
“But it’s actually ugly as sin.”

Parsons said he did not want Lexington resi-
dents to view the wall as something designed to
keep them away from the W&L campus.

“It’s a friendly wall,” Parsons said. “It’s the
kind of wall you cart sit on.”

Parsons said the $175,000 for the project is
being raised by the class of ’43. The wall will
commemorate the 19 members of that class who

were killed in World War II and will bearaplaque
with their names.

The wall will extend from either side of the
war memorial at the entrance to the Corral on
Jefferson Street. The wall will stretch to Letcher
Avenue on the north and to Washington Street on
the south. At the corner of Jefferson and Wash-
ington, a raised concave portion of the wall will
display “Washington and Lee University,
founded 1749."

According to an architect’s sketch, the wall
will be constructed of red brick to match existing
brick walls in Red Square.

Parsons said constnrction on the wall will
begin as soon as the Lexington City Council
gives final approval of the project. He said the
wall will be built in stages, as money is raised by
the class.

Parson said he is confident that the money will
be raised in time to complete the wall by Alumni
Weekend in May, when the class of '43 will have
its 50th armiversary.

“There are-several individuals in this class
who have the means to undertake the entire
project," Parsons said.

Freshmen Jon McEIhaney, Clay Richards, Chris MacNaughton and Kyle Edwards take advan-

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

tage of the mild tall weather to discuss lacrosse strategies on the Colonnade.

By MICHAEL Hnwurrr
Phi Contributing Writer

Washington and Lee's student po-
liticos are getting busy as the Presiden-
tial election edges closer.

College Democrat President Cottie
Miles said his organization will set up
phone banks in November to call reg-
istered voters and encourage them to
vote. Also, Miles said the College
Democrats have plans to go to Wash-
ington, D.C., to see Democratic presi-
dential candidate Bill Clinton’s inau-
guration, if Clinton wins the election.

Miles also said literature booths will
open this weekend at Kmart from noon
until 4 p.m. Students will hand out
political literature with information
about Clinton and his stand on issues.

College Republicans Chairman
Amanda Stewart said the College Re-
publicans plan to work with Bob
Goodlatte. a candidate for Virginia's
6th Congressional District. At local
football games, students will pass out
ﬂyers about Goodlatte.

Christine Will, secretary of the Col-
lege Republicans, said her group plans

 VMI-W&L fight

prompts attempt

By Kxrna YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

A fight last"we‘e'k‘l5etwe€riVMI ca-
dets and a W&L student has prompted
administrators from the two schools to
try to ease tensions between the student
bodies.

Washington and Lee Dean of Stu-
dents David L. Howison and Virginia
Military Institute Commandant Mike
Bissell met Monday with students who
were involved in a fight Oct. 8 that sent
one W&L student to the hospital.

“The purpose [of the meeting] was
not so much why [the fight] happened,
but how we can ease the tension,"
Howison said.

Howison said he met with Bissell,
thetwo cadets from VMI and two W&L
students to discuss the history of con-
flict between the two schools.

The most recent violent encounter
between cadets and W&L students oc-
curred early Oct. 8 in Red Square.

Chris Murphy, a member of Beta
Theta Pi, said a VMI cadet came to the
Beta house at about 3 a.m. The cadet
and the W&L students exchanged in-
sults, and the cadet and Phi Delta Theta
member Josh Helton got in a fight.
Murphy said the cadet was injured and
had to get two or three stitches in hislip.

Bissell said the ﬁght started when
the cadet came over to have a cigarette
and talk to a few W&L students on the
street outside the Beta house. Accord-
ing to Bissell, the cadet was approached
by a group of students who knocked his
cigarette down and smashed his fingers
when he tried to pick it up.

After the cadet went back to the
barracks, ﬁve or six other cadets re-

at reconcilation

turned to Red Square at about 5 a.m.,
Howison said. According to W&L Se-
curity Director Mike Young, the first
cadet was not in the group that re-
turned. The second group of cadets
went to the Beta house and then to Phi
Delt, looking for Helton, Young said.

Murphy said a cadet went to
Helton’s room and told Helton that the
police were outside and wanted to talk
to him. Murphy said that once Helton
got outside, he and one of the cadets
got in a fight. Young said the cadet
knocked out three of Helton’s teeth.

Bissell said the cadets who came to
the Phi Delt house just wanted to talk
to Helton about what had happened
earlier, and that the cadet who entered
the Phi Delt house did not tell Helton
that the police were outside.

Murphy said Howison called him
Monday to talk about the incident.

“We decided it would be a good
idea to have a meeting to clear the air
and make amends,” Murphy said.

Murphy and Helton were at the
meeting along with two of the cadets
involved in the fights. Howison said
the group cleared up many misunder-
standings between the two schools.

The students mostly discussed the
differences between the two schools,
Howison said, and they agreed the
differences could be worked out.

“I didn't sense any hostility,” said
Howison. “I thought they genuinely
wanted to work this out.”

Students from both schools agreed
that they would work to promote better
relations between schools, to prevent
anyone else from getting hurt.

“We came to an understanding that
we would do our best to talk positively
about the other schools,” Murphy said.

Students gear up for ’92 election

If the 1992 Presidential Election were held tomorrow,

who would you vote for?

5% 4%

Statistics are based on a random survey of 50 W&L students conducted Oct. 13-14.
Margin of error is 17 percent.

to canvass, or go into the community
and talk to people about the candidates.
Will said the College Republicans will
also volunteerat the Rockbridge County
Republicans’ office.

Tonight, both groups will travel to
Richmond for the presidential debate.
Will said the College Republicans will
attend a banquet and watch the debate

on a big screen. The College Demo-
crats will attend rallies at the Capitol
and at the University of Richmond,
Miles said.

No matter where one leans in terms
of political parties, sophomore Pina
Benincasa said she thinks it is impor-
tant to have varied opinions on campus
“as long as they are educated."

PAGE 2

 

 

Glitz ‘tiling-tunt lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Punishments teach
the wrong lessons

Washington and Lee preaches honor and civility as its highest
virtues, virtues individual students are held accountable to by the
Executive Committee and the Student Conduct Committee. One

- would think the administration of a university steeped in such

traditions would be all the more intent on instilling good moral
values in its students.

Recent events, however, have shown that the university’s
lessons are doing anything but instructing students on the proper
ways to live their lives.

Lesson Number One: Justice is not blind.

In reprimanding fraternities for destroying their houses, the,
university administration seems to be following the Orwellian rule
that some fraternities are more equal than others. Last year, the
university suspended Delta Tau Delta fraternity for one and a half
years after three Delts wreaked havoc in their soon-to-be reno-
vated house. When asked why the punishment was so severe,
Dean of Students David Howison proclaimed that Delt’s punish-
ment was “the new standard” for fraternities. ‘

Perhaps it is the old standard. Less than one year after the Delt
decision the newly renovated Phi Delta Theta house suffered at the
hands of a few brothers and pledges. According to the university’s
self-proclaimed standards, Phi Delt should have been suspended

A at least until next fall. But Phi Delt was only partially suspended

for three months.

Why the change of rules? Perhaps the administration doesn’t
want to lose one of the larger houses on campus. Perhaps inﬂuen-
tial Phi Delt alumni turned the heat on under the university's toes.
Or maybe the university realized the Delt decision was a grave
mistake.

Lesson Number Two: Individuals can hide behind the curtain
of a group.

When the administration decided to suspend Delt last winter,
they set a patently unfair precedent. An entire fraternity suffered
for the irresponsible actions of three of its members. Two of those

members have graduated and one was expelled from the fraternity.

But the remaining brothers are suffering for the actions of those
three. Are we being taught that brotherhood should be so strong as
to force an innocent person to sacrifice himself for the stupid and
irresponsible actions of another? No affiliation can ever make
someone responsible for events beyond his control; just joining a
group does not force an individual to give up independent thought
and actions.

Still, the university has decided to continue teaching herd
morality. The entire Phi Delt house is being punished for the
transgressions of one or two. Perhaps the university decided to
maintain one of its own standards and punish the entire Phi Delt
as it did the Delt house. Perhaps the university is missing the point.

The administration has erred doubly. First they applied an
unjust standard to Delt. Then they changed the rules, yet left them
unjust. The only way to rectify both mistakes is to punish the
individuals responsible for the damage in Phi Delt, and to allow
Delt back on campus immediately.

The student body of Washington and Lee is made up of unique
individuals. Students are not cattle to be herded together by
accusations or punishments. The administration should laud indi-
viduals for their accomplishments and make them rectify their
mistakes. Do not lump them all together in categories for
convenience’s sake. To do so is to teach a lesson far removed from
this university’s standards of honor and civility.

C.L. , F.K.

Quote of the Week

I’d like to thank all of you who have touched me in some way
over the last year.

— Bill Clinton
or . ' . 0
(J11: tiling-him 15111
Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Catliryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . : . .JebTi1ly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . Nikki Magazmer

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes‘ primanly
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

STEVE. OUR Fil=T+l
THIS CAKTOON is Debicwtri-:

EAK FtziEND,
To Au. ouK
Ftrrl-l YEAZ BUDDVES

Q

The Ring-tum Phl, October 15, 199 A

Scripted d

WASHINGTON —— George Bush
is as addicted to them as a toddler is to
his security blanket. He recites from

ebates

a sign of the times,

The Bush-Quayle forces had other
requests during the two long days 0

pre-debate talks that ended at 3 a.m.

American Express traveler, he can’t
leave home without them.

Not even for his overnight debate
trip to St. Louis Oct. 11.

If Bush and Co. had gotten their
way, a White House official confirms,
the President would have strode onto
the Missouri stage armed with the same
staff—drafted ‘ ‘talking points” he’sbeen
reading on the stump in TV interviews.

Sadly for the script-addicted Presi-
dent, it didn’t work out that way. Nego-
tiators for Clinton and rimning mate Al
Gore rejected the idea of candidates
bringing “notes” to the televised de-
bates during the early hours of Oct. 3.

Indeed, they threatened to add in-
sult to injury, dating the President's
representatives to let the debate talks
founder over the Bush-Quayle desire
to bring “Cliff Notes” onto the stage
with them.

The effort of the President's han-
dlers to arm their man with “notes”
for his prime-time debates with Clinton
and independent Ross Perot is, itself, a
nasty confession of Bush’s re-election
predicament. A President who once
derided press concerns about his lack
of a “vision thing” now ﬁnd himself
relying on other peoples’ words to de-
fend his own presidency. To take on
46-year-old Bill Clinton, a man he
mocks as insufficiently prepared,
George Bush wants a script.

thematrallies, clutches themin“Good samrday_
M°mm8 Améfica" imewiews With Not all were intellectual in nature.
J03“ Lund?“-,1-3?‘ T“?-Sday. he CV6-_n The President asked to use a stool, or
used’ them in issuing his “Let's get it examp e,
on! call for during thn
Bl" Cilnton second en.l
IO debate. _ t _‘-
Irefer to CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS ,°,°‘§", 1’,
those three . . . C1‘ t ta
by ﬁve cards Tribune Media Services P8113 " “is
0f _ the debate, slet
Pr_esident’s. for tonight,
Like the is what

aides have begun calling the “Oprah
Winfrey.” It's when the three presi-
dential candidates take questions from
a studio audience, as if they were stars
of a popular talk show. 3'

Vice President Dan Quayle wanted
to go further in the funiiture depart-
ment.

His staff confesses that the young
Hoosier would have been “more com-
fortable’ ’ sitting through his entire de-
bate with Tennessee Sen. Al Gore hid
Perot’s running mate, Jim Stockdale,
on Oct. 13.

Others might assume Quayle is less
worried about his physical comforttlian
his mental frame-of-mind on stage.
Four years ago, the current Vice Presi-
dent had to stand paralyzed before Ore
American people as Sen. Lloyd Bentsen
took his head off with the “You’re no
Jack Kennedy” line. ‘

But the most damning request of the
Bush-Qiiayle forces was their call for
“notes.”

On Oct. 5, Vice President Quayle
absolved Bush-backer Arnold
Schwarzenegger from his criticism that
movies have too much sex and vio-
lence.

“They just give him the script to
follow,” Quayle said.

He could say the same thing abtuit
George Bush. I

© 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Fallacies of trade agreement cleared up

WASHINGTON— The fact that the North Ameri-
can Free Trade Agreement has caused Bill Clinton
anxiety indicates why he causes anxiety: Some of his
better instincts seem to ﬂicker like candles in the
wind when they conﬂict

6

lar industries and interests. However, NAFTA is

progress.
Today Mexican tariffs are, on average, two and a
half times higher than U.S. tariffs. (Clinton’s support
. for NAFTA may have

with the strong, steady ap- 'less to do with a philoso'- A
petites of some of his con- GEORGE WILL phy of freedom than with
stituencies. Still, his en- a political calculation:
dorsement of NAFTA—— Washington Past Writers Group Michigan, Ohio and Illi-

grudging and guarded

nois are among the 10

though it was, and not for

the right reasons—is a

mildly encouraging portent of the probable Clinton
presidency.

It is said that NAFTA will, if ratiﬁed, create the
world’s largest common market, encompassing 365
million consumers, 20 million more than the Euro-
pean Community. But it will not really be like the
common market that now extends from Maine to
California.

NAFTA is not nearly as good as it’s cracked up to
be by its supporters becaifse it is not what it is said to
be

It is not really a free trade agreement. In fact, a
2,0()0-page free trade agreement is a contradiction in
terms. Twenty paragraphs would suffice to establish
really free trade, which does not require armies of
bureaucrats to enforce the hairsplittings of legions of
lawyers.

NAFTA reduces many trade barriers, but, in ef-
fect, moves others outward, to serve as ramparts
around Mexico, Canada and the United States. Con-
sider, for example, the “rules of origin” regulating
domestic content requirements of goods defined as
“North American.” The rules include this triple niggle
regarding textiles: North American yarn must be
used in fabrics made in North America for clothes
cut in North America.

NAFTA creates a regional bloc to rival, and
impede, the exporting Pacific Rim nations. Many of
the 2,000 pages, properly deciphered, record U.S.,
Canadian and Mexican jockeying to protect particu-

states selling most to

_ Mexico.) NAFTA will

quickly mean cheaper and more plentiful fruits and

vegetables, products currently subject to tariffs pro-
tecting U.S. farmers.

NAFTA will, after a 15-year phase-in, further link
the commercial lives of three nations that already
have huge trade ﬂows with each other. Critics of
NAFTA cite the disparities of development between
the United States and Mexico, with its population of
85 million (four times that of Canada.) They fear the
ﬂow southward of low-skill jobs. «

But the Mexican economy is just one-twentietli
the size of the U.S. economy, and the Bush adminis-
tration guesses that the increased bilateral trade would
increase U.S. GNP only slightly. Ross Perot, the
timidest Texan, quakes about the menace of Mexico,
saying NAFTA would apply “a giant sucking—sound
vacuum on what used to be industrial America.”

NAFTA is especially important in forcing people
to define their stance toward the future. Are they too
timid about change? Are they too confident they can
discern the shape of the future?

Recent administration testimony supporting
NAFTA resulted in this cockamamie headline:

“Trade Pact Could Cost Up to 150,000 Jobs”

The administration also says there would be
325,000 new jobs created in the ﬁrst five years, a net
gain of 175,000.

But stay with the idea of “lost jobs.” lftlie mental-
ity common among NAFTA’s liberal critics had
prevailed when the automobile industry was in its

infancy, government might have strangled the infant

_ in its cradle—in the name of “compassion," of course.

The Richard Gephardts of that day would have
said: Pity the poor tanners, hamess-makers, buggy

, and buggy-whip manufacturers, livery stable opera-

tors, blacksmiths——woe! J obs»“lost” to the horseless
carriage. ,

The A1 Gores of that day would have warned that
the internal

combustion

engilricavould

s i e ur- *‘—““'—"“‘—". .
,,‘,’,‘,’, a,,_a;, But if Clinton gets to
hhend p<;r- the White House be

m

n‘,’,ee° mnnm’, shoirlbd]hewth_ the rrtiihst .
horses, each SEIISI C sen imen C
P’°"“°“‘3 uttered on the way
upward of th . “P . .

i w e n t y ere. rotectionism
Pounds of is just a fancy word
manureaday. . . ,,

manure that fol‘ glvlng llp.
attracted

swarms of

ﬂies until it

' was ground by traffic into a dust that covered clothes

and furniture and coated nostrils.

Freer trade means faster change, and Clinton h2s
spent his adult life courting groups, especially labor
groups, that want activist government to preserve the
status quo. A President Clinton and a Democratic
Congress could have a grand time using NAFTA as
an excuse for spending and regulating (called “tran-
sition strategies”) to help those hurt by freer trade,
and those who think they are entitled to compenst
tion for any inconvenience of change.

But if Clinton gets to the White House he should
hew to the most sensible sentiment he uttered on the
way there: “Protectionism is just a fancy word for
giving up.”

©1992, Washington Post Writers Group

LETTERS

W&L comunity receives resounding thanks -

Dear Editor:

 

Wildcats. Dear Editor:

Onbehalf of Kathekon, W&.L’s_stu- On behalf of the Rockbridge Com-
dent alumni group. and the Washmg- _ munity Unit of the American Cancer
ton and Lee Alumni Office, we would Sincerely. Society, I want to
like to thank all who helped to make the James D_ thank Washington
Homecoming Parade a success. Farm,’ and Lee students

Spooral thanlss goes to all those Anmm, fortheir assistance
_who participated in the parade, spend- Di and nanicinan-on
mg their free time building ﬂoats and recwr in me fourth an-
decorating cars that truly represented a nual M akin g
cross-section of the W&L studentbody. Robeﬂ M. Strides Against

We would also like to convey our Mish, III cancer event
gl;Pf¢:31131v1&’81:LfS‘3F Bfllngnf)-°> an‘: Assistant which took place

oun s, ecunty, e eano - 1 5 d _
  3'30 W35’ 35-
9 3“ Pa 91105. 6 lected to assist us

para:/ie hould théveth have taken nlace. Mame W in providing pro-
e ope t‘ e success 0 this W - ans [0 re en,
‘)1/ear’s iliraurladte revitalizeshh festive tra- Felber. anger, ,2 gen-
ition_ t rings toge er students, Staff hnne research,
a1“mm~a_"d m"'mbe’5,°f‘h¢ I-°"m8_‘°“ Associate and to provide
gimarlrliunity and provides a good time service and reha.

,. . . .

- , _ -I-h bilitation for lo-

_ We look forward to your participa- H omas ca] cancer sum-
tion in next year’s parade on October 9, °°Pe" Vo,s_ Chris Tho-
1993, as we build spirit for the Home- K3’-hekon Inns’ 13, and 3
coming game against the Davidson President , e C 0 V e r i n 8

luekemia survivor was the Grand Prize
winner of a free weekend at
Massanutten Resort.

, - In particular, the following weifa
tremendous help in planning, organiz-
ing, publicizing and carrying out the
event: Maureen Levey, Catherine
Fraser, Molly Apter, Andrea Cobrin,
Erin McKinney, Amy Panella, Carrie
Southgate, Stacy Newlin, Stacy
Donovan, Mary Catherine Auro, Elih-
beth Dettrnar, Kathleen Sparks, Amy
Brown, Shannon Jones, Cory Chung,
Julie Sauers, Kathy Mekjian, Becca
Reed, Amy Myers, Lisa Zarek, Sarah
Wyatt, Sally Obermueller, Megan
Mccloskey, Sonya Soderberg,
Jeannette Burgess, and Eve McDonaﬂ.
On behalf of all those in our commu-

nity fighting for their lives, a huge'

“THANK YOU”!

Sincerely Yours,

W.C. “Burr” Datz

President, Rockbridge Community
Unit, ACS

 

 
   
   
 

J

    
 

O

The Hing-tum Phl, October 15, 1992

OPINION

lirection Man battles diabolical villians

ONi: GUY’s OPINION
' By Chris Citron

One day this summer, I was sittin’
around letting my mind wander, when
I started thinking about Superheros and
how...okay, okay. That's not what
really happened. Let me start again.

9 I was thinking about sex and
what...hold on. That's not entirely
accurate either. To tell the honest truth,
I was thinking of sophomore girls,
which led to thoughts of sex, which in
led to thoughts of superhuman
s ength, which resulted in a complex,
eam-of-conscious, mental debate on
e redundancy of Superhero charac-
teristics, which lasted approximately
9/, 0 of a second. (I realize that 9/10 of
a second is a lot of thinking for the
s er program, but believe me when
I y that it was accidental. Plus, it did
in olve sex). 7
irially, through much deliberation,
I got this great idea of an entirely new
Superhero who represents true physi-
cal characteristics. I then presented
this brainstorm to my family at the
dinner table to observe their reactions,
aid now present it to you, extremely
bored readers. (Why else would you
read this column?) Please let me know

   

what you think of.....
ERECTION MAN!
Check this out. Mild-inarmered

condom factory worker, Richard Head,
lyads downtown to begin a normal day
of work. He buys a cup of java to get
him started athis usual place, The Rosy
Palm, and continues toward the comer
where he buys his bi-weekly copy of

Bloated Buns, or Gals From Girls
Schools, another favorite of the lewd
magazine cult. However, today the
newsstand has the anniversary editions
of both, and so Dick is ecstatic and
knows this is going to be an unbeliev-

zines ruined than the potential damage
to his body, Dick does not take the time
to rinse himself of the lubricant until
convinced by his friend, Larry Hildo.
When done and inspected by the health
inspectors, Dick is allowed to leave.

able day_ He deliberates on what he should do

He arrives at and then real-
the factory at i265 that he
7:50 am,, just must replace
in time for his Dick can no longer his P916"
8:00 shift, Not . . possessions
even time for a handle h'mSelf' He’S d1?‘ that were lost
guickloolltlseeat turbed that the man is giotrhe §:p(1)<§

is pure ases, ' 1 .
hesndesimohis holding up the store, but Dick goes to
uniform and even more agitated that the closest
heads for the he is taking Dick’s only °°“"°“"=“°°
"'°§“°"°",1,‘"f’ true love Fear and hate 
rea y I0 6 p ' . . . ‘ _ _
formalltypesof and anger boiling within this horrible
latex toys, un- - - ° _ day.
suspecting of hi_m, arid excitement tin . By . ms
the fantastic gling him because of his time. It is
 “Lag: capacity to feel these emo-  (gff
away from "ans: I_)1ck _Sll}1deﬂ1y spectors had
lclfianging his drops his twinkies and totrun 
1 e, - es s on ic

At loam‘  tonne Since he was
it’scoffeebreak the only one
time, and Dick covered by
heads to the john for the much antici- the lubricant in the explosion).

pated look at his newly-purchased eu-
phoria. While doing what guys do with
girly magazines in the bathroom, an
explosion rocks the factory, spewing
radioactive condom lubricant all over,
covering Dick’s entire body, and se-

cretly transforming hirn into Erection-

Man.
More upset about having his maga-

Dick walks through the aisles of the
store picking up much-needed grocer-
ies, plarming on purchasing his be-
loved beauties at the check—outcounter.
However, while approaching the check-
out line he sees a man in an overcoat
there and a very frightened sales clerk
nervously handing over every copy of
Bloated Buns and Gals From Girls

Schools. Upon closer observation, Dick
realizes that the man in the overcoat
has a gun and is actually robbing the
store of its entire inventory of those
magazines!

Dick can no longer handle himself.
He's disturbed that the man is holding
up the store, but even more agitated
that he is taking Dick’s only true love.
Fear and hate and anger boiling within
him, and excitement tingling him be-
cause of his capacity to feel these emo-
tions, Dick suddenly drops his twinkies
and begins to....enlarge! Bursting out
of his clothes and physically trans-
forming, Dick becomes an eight-foot
erection within 10 seconds!

Not knowing what has happened to
him,and not caring at thispoint in time,
Dick starts to yell at the thief, but finds
that he does not quite know how. Now
even more frustrated, he begins to pump
himself up and down to try and facili-
tate some type of movement. The
crook hears this commotion and turns,
horriﬁed by this huge pha1lic...thing.
He is now scared and fires a shot at it.
Dick miraculously dodges the bullet
but can no longer contain himself. In a
frenzy of uncontrolled spasms, he
ejaculates, covering the criminal in an
extremely viscous liquid, rendering him
defenseless.

After a few minutes of twitching
Dick relaxes, returning back to nomial,
thoroughly exhausted. He graciously
takes the copies of his wanted maga-
zines, free of charge, and staggers home,
not quite understanding what tran-
spired, but conscious enough to know
that he will have to save Bloated Buns
for tomorrow.

rm-;m( TKAMSPOKTER PxC.Cll)ENT OPENS A T-2\Fi' (N TIME,
Ti>(l7°\P0§’lt~l(: Two CULT!/(KES or emozmowl

  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
      
   
    

r 
r I

 

Ji

 LET ME oer THl$ smA\eHT~
’ You SAlL AROUND THE Hm/ens

1>tsco\/e'e\He NEW W09‘-D 3, L°°""“"
 %‘I>MTHlvM <’»sV~‘~T+w%“ AND wNV€RT'NG
  ‘:1’  ; NA'n;ve's v To Acme ma ,__¥ll./.U\/_W\N.l SIM ?       

it

“\
\wcT

/.l,.
1 if ‘
hilt

19.3

<:§

DAMM 1T KIM’ "£'IV\ _
A §QQ,Tc)KI NOT‘ P>»_V_,.--
c. Nau\tm>ti>oR. .

I Interviews and Photos

I

I

 

Bill Coffin, ‘93, Easton, Pa. —“I
thought Bush was a waffler, Clinton
was a smarmy bozo, and Perot gave a
good stand-up act.”

 

‘ By Jameson Leonardi

    

John Givens, ‘94, Salem, Va. —-—

TALKBACK

 

Malinda Murphy, ‘93, Fort Worth, Texas and Randy Smith, ‘93, Au-
“I have come to the conclusion both gusta, Ga. —-— “I think Clinton must have decided to inhale before the debate.”
politics and politicians suck.” ‘ _

GENERAL
NOTES

Lecture  

Duke University professor
Herbert Kitschelt will give a lecture
entitled, “The Problems with the
Unification of Germany.’ ’ The lec-
ture will be held in Northen Audito-
rium on Monday, Oct. 19 at 7:30
p.m. Professor Kitschelt has taught
at Berkeley, Stanford, and Notre
Dame and effective 1993, he will
hold a joint appointment as Profes-
sor of Political Science at Duke
University and Humboldt Univer-
sity in Berlin.

The EC

The EC will interview students
for student-faculty committees on
Monday. The interviews will begin
at 7:15 p.m. Applications can be
picked up outside of Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center. For
more information contact Bob
Tompkins at 463-8587 (office) or
436-11 15 (home).

Party Pics

The proofs from the Bordello
Disco Party on Sept. 30 are posted
in the Bordello living room. They
will be available until Oct. 20. Make
checks out to Meredith Gronroos.

VMI-W&L

Needed. Men and women inter- ‘
ested in organizing a VMI-W&L
student organization. Call Jason at
464-6259.

Haunted House

Lambda Chi Alpha will hold a
HauntedHouse onHalloweennight,
Saturday, Oct. 31, from 7-9 p.m. in
conjunction with the Lexington

’ Police Dept.‘ Admissiorilfot eiii1‘-~“~‘ ' H _ M
' dren,12 and .tm'der. is‘i50:cents.ii/ith.;i' those~'§tud'ents' who have not sub-‘
" proceeds to be donated to the United

Way. The Lambda Chi House is
located at 225 E. Nelson St. Ques-
tions? Call 463-2600.

WLUR

WLUR will present an album
feature every Thursday from 5-5 :45
p.m. Listen to hear new albums
from the hottest rock artists. Signs
will be posted each week as to what
band will be spotlighted.

CollegeDems

There will be a meeting of the
CollegeDemocrats this Sunday, Oct.
18 at 7 p.m. in the University Center
game room. New members are al-
ways welcome. For more informa-
tion call 463-8984.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Hear

Field Studies

The School for Field Studies will
present a program about their op-
portunities for environmental field

 

study experiences. It will be held on
Monday, Oct 26 at 4 p.m. in Room
109 U.C. These internship experi-
ences are open for underclassmen
and seniors in all majors. Infonna-
tion is available in CDP office.

An Insurance Opportunities
Seminar will be held on Tuesday,
Oct 27 at 4 p.m. in Room 109 U.C.
A representative from Life of Vir-
ginia will present an overview of
career paths afforded by insurance
companies such as: sales, under-
writing, and claims adjusting.

Contact

Zvi Dor-Ner, producer of Co-
lumbus’ Magnificent Voyage will
speak in Lee Chapelon Monday,
Oct 19 at 8 p.m. This is the first

speaker sponsored by Contact 1992-
93.

SPJ

SPJ will meet tonight at 6:30
p.m. in Reid Library. Anyone inter-

ested in joining please come. Offic-
ers will be elected and activities
discussed.

CD&P

From the CD&P: Resume and
Cover Letter Workshop on Mon-
day, Oct. 19 from 4-5 p.m. (Room
109 U.C.), and Practice Interviews
for all students all day Tuesday,
Oct. 20.

Financial Aid

Students needing financial as-
sistance for Spring Term Abroad
Programs should contact the Finan-
cial Aid Office irrimediately. For

mitted a Financial Aid form for
1992-93, the priority deadline for
submission for spring term assis-
tance is Nov. 2.

Bridge The Gap

Bridge The Gap, Oct 16 at 5p.m.
in the Dell behind the Library.

Theater Tickets

The Theater Department will
present Moliere’s classic, The
Imaginary Invalid,‘ Oct. 22, 24, 26,
and 27 at 8 p.m. and Oct. 24 and 25
at 2 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.
Tickets can be purchased at the
Lenfest Center Box Office between
12-4 p.m. Monday through Friday
or by calling 463-8000.

A What did you think of Sunday’s presidential debate? 

Alegra O‘Hare, ‘94,0akland,Md.

—— “I would‘ve watched it but there
was a blue light special at Kmart.”

Tom Fink, ‘96, Ashtabula, Ohio ;
—-— “I think if Perot doesn‘t win, he ‘-I
has a deﬁnite spot lined up for Satur- 2
day Night Live.” J

 

 

By KIM MARcorrr
Phi Contributing Writer

Many young boys dream
of a life of adventure as a fire-
man. Junior Jack Sorrels is
living that dream as a volun-
teer for the Lexington Fire
Squad.

Sorrels spends up to 20
hours each week aiding the
ﬁre squad.

He acknowledged that be-
ing a W&L student sometimes
earns him a hard time from the ,
other volunteers, “But it’s all '
in fun,” he said.

Originally from Augusta,
Ga., Sorrells moved to Lex-
ington while he was in high
school. His grandfather, ana-
tive of Lexington, got him in-
terested in the fire service.

“My grandfather’s been in
the ﬁre service since 1953,”

 

school because of an age requirement.
The fire department receives 350-450 calls a year, or

Student turns down the heat

W&L junior volunteers for Lexington Fire Squad

._, a little more than one a day,

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-rum Phi

Junlor Jack Sorrels checks the water
valves of a Lexington fire truck.

said Sorrells, who could notvo1umeer umit after high makes, Sorrells said the real reward is self-satisfaction.
“It's nice to know it’s been a job well done and to get a

thank you.”

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 15, 1992

FEATURES

Sorrells said. Calls are prima-
rily to help extricate passen-
gers from vehicle accidents on
I-81 and I-64.
~ Sorrells said there are mini-

mal calls for actual structure

ﬁres.
‘ The department continues
to use a general whistle to
gather six to eight volunteers
- per call. Although calls occur
"j" at any time, Sorrells manages
ot to let that get in the way of
" his studies.

“I usually stay in class,” he
said.

The department meets as a
group each week to complete
its required 50 hours of train-
ing per year and to drill. Vol-
unteers also brush up on skills
in special classes held for emer-
gency staff throughout the area.

Although avolunteer is paid
a small amount for each call he

SAB plans ‘bigger, better things’

Wide variety of entertainmentplanned for this year

By Tom Hraspos
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee Student
Activities Board has plans for bigger
and better things after receiving an
$8,000 budget increase from the Ex-
ecutive Committee.

“One of our goals this year is trying
to provide a variety of entertainment,”
said SAB Vice Chair and Treasurer
Hobson Barnes.

According to Barnes, the SAB re-
ceived $63,000 from EC this year,
$8,000 more than last year.

With this money, Barnes said that
SAB will be able to sponsor more events
and provide better publicity for those
events.

“We doubled our request for pub-
licity,” Barnes said.

Barnes said publicity was a prob-
lem for SAB last year, “especially at
smaller events.”

According to Barnes, SAB has

‘nearly ﬁnalized plans for the Spin Doc-
tors to play at the Pavilion on Christ-
mas Weekend.

“It’s as sure as sure can be,” he said.

In addition to booking bands like
the Spin Doctors for big weekends,
Barnes said SAB plans to host bands in
the General Headquarters.

According to Barnes, SAB has
booked the Super Grit Cowboy Band
for Oct. 21. and a Dixieland jazz band
for Oct. 28.

Barnes said SAB has tentative plans
to book the Dave Matthews Band, Dash

Rip Rock and Valence for other dates
in the GHQ. SAB also has plans to host
a jazz band during winter term and to
have SGG&L play on the Colonnade in
the spring.

SAB will also sponsor a cocktail
party in the Fairfax Lounge for Parents
Weekend.

Recently, SAB has sponsored mov-
ies in the newly reopened Troubadour
Theater. t

According to Barnes, movies will
be shown in the Troubadour Theater on
the first Sunday of each month.

As for this year’ s Fancy Dress band,
Barnes said that booking a good band
depends on who is touring in the area at
the time.

“A lot of itis just luck,” he said. “It’s
a bad touring time for bands.”

VF

You ﬂlre Corc[ia[[y

I noitecf to L1  

Tczrents ‘Weekend’
Reception

frictay, Octolier 23
4:30 - 6:30 pm.
in Qaines Qatenouse‘

Sponsored Ey
The King-‘Tum Tﬁi
and tlie Society of

Trofessionaijournaﬁsts

ﬂllfmemﬁers of the ‘W551. community and parents

are invited to attend.

-1

JJ

  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
    
   
    
 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum 
Twln brothers Martin and Jason Dunn discuss plans for proposed VMI-W&L group. q 1

Brothers plan W&L-VMI group

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

A family bond has motivated two
brothers to overcome the rivalry of
two adjacent yet ironically isolated
schools, Washington and Lee and Vir-
ginia Military Institute.

W&L junior Jason Dunn and his
twin brother, Martin, who attends VMI,
have set upon a course to unite students
from the two schools.

“I’d like to have something more in
common [with VMI] sporting events,”
Jason said.

“We’re not looking to make a great
union between the schools. We just
want some sortof tie,” Martin said.

Jason and his brother are in the
planning stage of establishing an orga-
nization comprised of students from
both schools.

Jason said the organization will be
community service oriented and will
occasionally sponsor historical lectures
at Lee Chapel and VMI’s Jackson Hall
open to all students from both schools.

Jason has already contacted VMI
historians, who said they are willing to
speak on the history of the two schools.

“You’d think there couldn't be any
schools more different. But both are
tradition oriented, and both have a
strong honor system,” Jason said.

Before the semester began, Jason

presented his idea to Dean of Students
David Howison, who expressed full
support of the potential organization.

Howison and Commandant Mike
BissellatVMIhadpreviouslydiscussed
the idea of such an organization but did
not go forward with the idea because of
a lack of student interest, Jason said.

Both Bissell and Howison are offer-
ing Jason and Martin full support but
are allowing the brothers to take the
initiative to establish the organization
on their own.

“I’m not really an organizational
person. I've never done anything like
this before,” Jason said.

Nonetheless, Martin said Jason is
the true organizer while he is merely
gaining support from fellow VMI ca-
dets.

He and his brother have decided to
form a committee or “think tank” of
three or four students from each school
to develop the goals of the organiza-
tion.

If all goes well, Jason would like to
have a meeting of this committee be-
fore the end of the month.

Once they have accomplished this,
they will present the idea to the Lex-
ington Leadership Council, which is
comprised of W&L and VMI adminis-
trators and Lexington city leaders.

Howison suggested taking this route
as a means of gaining further support
for the establishment of the organiza-

tion. .

Jason has also discussed the idea
with Executive Committee President
Josh McFarland and EC Vice Pres‘!
dent Ames Hutton, who he said sup-
port the formation of the organization
100 percent and will provide financial
support through the EC.

“It's all up to me now,” Jason said

Jason said he would have formed
the organization earlier if he had reai
ized the need for it. _

He said he had always been aware
of VMI’s presence, but conﬂicts be-
tween the two schools did not become
apparent to him until his sophomore
year.

Jason said that the thing that realb;
focused his attention on the two schools
was a recent article in The Ring-tum
Phi concerning a fight between VMI
cadets and W&L students.

“I want it [the organization] to be
positive and not justa reactionary thing.
I want it to be more than a way to shot;
cadets aren’t bad,” he said.

So far, Jason has received support
from students at both schools, but he
hopes to gain even more, especially
from freshmen and sophomores.

Considering they only have one
more year before they graduate, J asog
and Martin are counting on that year to
strengthen the organization.

“I hope it doesn’t end as soon as my
brother and I graduate,” Martin said.

 

    

pres en ts

21,,

 iﬁm

    

   
 

Q

"1 e Ring-tum Phl, October 1 5, 1992

 

FEATURES

. 9
510,- X inin 0.0 .0 i -

  
  
  
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
   
    
   
 
   
  

year include Choral Fan-
fare. Mendelssohn’s

1 hamber ChOl|' TeC9lV9S mlX9d reviews Colonnade Crossword

By KRIS LAWRENCE

  

.. , ACROSS
Phi Contributing Writer l_?llJah, and Rutter sDash- 1 Allow
—-—-mm mg away with the smooth- 4 Pasteboards
Last springaspanofme ing ,',-o,,_ 9 Romantic isle

The Chamber Choir’s  ;,‘aE,'(aa%‘°"
next concert will be Oct. 16 Shortly
24 at 4 p.m. in the Lenfest lg geparted
Center for Parents Week- 19 03%‘: partner
end. 20 Former comic
The University Chorus actor

22 Facilitated
was also affected by the 24 ..__ wemrger.

structuring of the music
‘epartment, the Women’s
'ioRis and Glee Club were
pped, and the Chamber
‘ oir formed. Student re-
ion to the decision has
- 11 mixed.

i‘ . y members of the elimination of the single- 25 Miamps county
‘I Club and Women’s sex groups. 26 Tribal group
‘ho '. were disappointed Anaddition of 30 mem- 28 S‘ ta” mdeﬁnne
i the decision to cancel bers to the University Cho- 32 Sigma, wea,
e s lngle-sex groups. rus brought the 60member 34 Prayer ending
“ , liked the women's choir to 90. 35 Young boy

36 Broadcasts

 

rho us and I will miss it,” Spice said this decision 37 Thin cracker
aid 1 unior Lolita Crabbe,a “will better serve the stu- 39 Old times
nemlber of last year's dents and me University 40 Landers or @1992 Tribune Media Services. inc.  
I 0 Bnis chorus. «By cm_ by combining freshmen 41 \Slt;t;ii:I;1r:|d All Rights Reserved
ing the Glee Club and and upperclassmen into 42 __ Spiemerg
omen’s Chonis, they’re one large mixed choir.” 44 Tv‘s former Last week's answers
tting a long-time tradi- The choral department 461l_"3“'Y —b 9 H
on that won’t ever be the decided that enlarging the 47 Rznfgce ;f:.: 10 P;’;,":g
. e.” University Chorus would crime 11 pm on
Students also Said they allow as many students as 48 Placelfor a 2 freight
‘ iilniiss the singie-sexper- Wssible ‘.°  iniwduced so Snpudtated pony l4gtaosFe(:i‘1l:rr1ts
7. ormances at choral perfor- ’ ' ’ to and °nJ°Y 51n8m8- 52 Bank employees 21 Gave
ances_ Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi “More people audi- 55 Char temporarily

tioned with more talent 56 Defense system 23 Mideast gulf

mike“ being ab1°‘° 8° Dr Gordon S Ice directs the Chamber choir for an u omln ertormance ' “r 1 25 c d r
o a concert and know that ' p pc 9 p than In years P389” Dl1’<‘;C- 53 ialelrficszry 26 C3973: J51
‘ can hear the women sing , . tor Courtney‘ Birch said. §0 Dies — 27 Singer Lutt
 dthen the men sing sepa- “There IS  better TCVCT     28  60
. ateb,” senior Stephanie Sauers said. experience.” highest possible artistic level.” musicianship and voice quality this 53 Fendgr mishap 29 ..___ Lucy”

“We have Southern Comfort and Junior Ellen Dean agreed. ‘‘I think The 25-member Chamber Choir year.” §4 Passover feast 30 Foals‘ mothers
ubilee but they the new choir is consists of both men and _ “I really eniov the size of the choir. 35 Arid 31 "East of,—"
ing different great because 1 women of all voice Ive never Sung In a Choir 80 large 32 F’°"°" ""°'

 

. ypes of music. I T ——————-—e g_et a chance to ranges — soprano. bsfore and atﬁr§t1WaSn¢rV°“S that 1 33?" 33 Zgbeevdfgnces 1°/'5/92
rked the serious he choral department srng wrth men alto, tenor and it would be difficult to learn the 2 Love god 38 Aid and —
iecesperformed d .d d th t I . this year. So far bass. music at_a quick pace, but so far 3 (psart 39 'ls'::1pesaemwho 49 Tree 54 M.
by ,t”he Glee eel e _ a_ en argmg iI'S 80_in8 Well,” To audition ?Y°’Y‘h‘“ghasb°§“ 3°f“‘3 gen’ 5 Warn 41 Contest so uniainieri _ 55 OfIl(er
lu . the Unlverslty Chm-us she said. for the group, irst-year mem e_r “res man 6 Guns a motor 43 High 51 Mideast nation 57 Native metal
H o w e v e r Professor of students must . Madeline White said. Our first 7 °W|n9 45 Poem 52 Walked 59 TV Tarzan.
mchokmmj would allow as many Music and have one year of concert was incredible, and 3 B''*""°'S 43 ""=**‘° °'°"' 53 “‘9“Wav R0“ -
lsiéfsi tskfiidhthey students as possible to §hamberG Cl'(1i0ll' W8_LL singing ex— thelchorush3:lno_troub’l,e
i e e c ange - irector or on perience. eaminz e pieces. _
to the Chamber Pe lnyrofluced to and en" Spice saidthede- Spice ‘has great 1 Pieces Heing  R    
' I . Joy singing. ‘ c}n1s1on_ to lcancel Ew;1pectt:t1g1rl1s_ for the suns.bi&t1he Ut:}- Morning Mag (Rock) — Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.
_ _ . Yezglli the 5m8 5'5“ ‘ﬁn Fdh 0}“ f "e‘-my ,°’“l5 d‘5 Jazz - Monday, 9 a.m.-l1a.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.—l1:30 a.m.
ms? ho_ :’na‘(’i’e1:(5)°ir5n $3: Eumegzgl lgggresees 3 ‘°“’ ° _3I[‘;'):’ erfsnc xv‘: AM _Ove_rture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.
3 ore, Bgcca thechoral prfor— TTIIJC Choirho. es tovisitGer- Mari); Rutter's Inspl-ration:-ll - Thursday’ 9 a'm'_l 1-am’; Monday’ 2 p’m''3p'm'
( Cord said n ‘ ‘ E: ‘ mances pe man Austria aid Switzerland Re uiein and Public Affairs ‘Monday mm“-gh Fnday’ 11 a'm'_1 1:30 am’
"l‘Vi(/:e’reabletodo   “The select S icb, said the iiiiiversit budget Van(i:e’sThe Oak Country - Monday through Fnday’ 12 Rm’-1:30 pm’
lcha enging mu- ‘9 choir allows us wlbuld tentatively fund o)i,ie-third of and The Ash 11:3'c'lc(e/lv‘:pdI-1T‘3esd$r,’ 2  Fnda); 8 pm’-11:30 pm‘
1 . . . . . . . '. - e es ay ou n y, p.m.- p.m.
§;cilIile‘f‘iTsPtl::’l3l:rslum'ty I’ve had to sing challengin andcontei'l)1p:1)(r)aI‘3j'lrfr§ieirsT(!:1 $11: Tblsll whlle me smdems would pay r u s will also P"I3.11'1f‘:)UIIjln21l‘IlelT-ls6nT):6I(l:f}.:3(ST Breakthrough Rock _ Monday mmugh Friday’ 3:30 p'm"5:30 pm‘
_ _ , _ . go“ v - . , _ _ Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.
in a small mixed chorus. It s a new said Spice. We can perform at the The Chamber Choir s pieces this Center on Oct. 23 at4 and 8 p.m. Th“-d Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

 

/  _ r ,  H .. . ”  ‘‘ GREEKS&CLUBS
Rl:llRl‘.l\'ll‘.NrINVI‘.SllN(i . Art '
> 1 _ \.   RAISE A cooL

I  C  1870 Washington College Diploma sq oogw K! ;_
signed RE. Lee 'l":L-3; s'l"0€0"i“0RE‘IE{E' :1

Signaturesi MEMBERWHO CALLS! ljf

M31}; D53 R-E- Lee» Jr- No obligation. No cost. 3.

Fitz ugh Lee John Letcher You also CMFREE ;

M.Miley Edward Valentine HEAm,H(§NE RADIO :-

W&L Copperplate re-strike, hand-colored 5“5"°' °’""‘g 3

W&L and RE.Lee limited edition art 1-80f%932-0528. Ext. 65
Sculptures by Ron Tunison

George and Mary Washington pieces

ilﬁlllmﬂﬂkﬁ   —§‘*9—F'e “"‘ "
Billllilll  

4 East Washington Street Open Monday — Saturday  I   

Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
; I It, s
A   i  ea 

it Read the Phi. 

IF     w &: L UNIVERSITY THEATRE PRESENTS
it ~ EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THE IMAGINARY INVALID  
THROUGH RETIREMENT. BY Mougm .

no-or-vconauvvss

v,:__u,v_-.-o-or-¢o-¢u

‘. '. an -an -.

 

K
. '-. '.- a'.,1'r.'a‘n'.'- '4'. '. '.

   
   

I

rs hink about su ortin ourself for At TIAA-CREE we not onl under- 
§ pp gy y L .
1 ‘H twenty-ﬁve, thirty years or longer stand the value of starting early, we K -I
3§ in retirement. It might be the greatest can help make it possible—witli flexible E E L:
‘g ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, retirement and tax-deferred annuity  L ~_;
E you have one valuable asset in your plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvestment I
g favor. Time. choices, and a record of personal F L 3;
§, Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. service that spans 75 years. E E _j
5° Time for your money to grow. Over a million people in education I:
Q 1
3 But starting early is key. Consider this: and research are already enrolled in S R 
 ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at America's largest retirement system. T 
Q age thirty, you can accumulate $192,53g* Find out how easy it is to join them. Call T Ij
 by the time you reach age sixty-ﬁve. today and learn how simple it is to put 
§ Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside yourself through retirement when you C  H 1‘-
: $227 a month to reach the same goal. have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. E  E :4’
Q S Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. N J  A V
§ A A . ‘ pr: 
*3 Ensuring the future T *3. T ; 3
g for those who shape it?" E 3. R T 
. & 9,.

Got   a Gripe? :’:.g..‘:.:d.:.::;:::::.:*::. vmrcmmonvow   
U“i"e‘S“Y Cent“ OCTOBER 22 24 26 & 27 at 8 p m
[ ’ O 0

Write to the Phi.::9.‘:.:3:;.‘:::‘:'::: 0CTOBER24&25at2p.m.

'v'b{§“rAN V-9.5-.

PAGE 6

' NEWS

 

Students visit
AIDS Quilt

At right, a panel of the
quilt commemorates
W&L alumnus Michael
Peppler, '74. Below,
visitors wander
among more than
20,000 panels, each
dedicated to a person
who has died of AIDS.

Photos by Patrick McDennott

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Staff Writer

have died of AIDS.

living with AIDS.

on “The Human Face of AIDS.”

Nine W&L students joined tens of thousands of
people in Washington, D.C., Saturday to view the AIDS
Quilt, a memorial to the more than 20,0()0 people who

The students are part of the new AIDS Education
Project begun on campus by junior Pat McDermott, who
was sparked into action by the movie “Common 'I'hreads,”
the story of the AIDS quilt. McDermott said he began
organizing the group last spring and got a very positive
response from students and alumni.

“People know how the disease is spread and they
know how to protect themselves, but the percentage of
people who practice safe sex is way too low,” McDermott
said. He said the major goal of the W&L AIDS Education
Project is to increase that percentage. The project’s other

aim is to heighten the level of compassion for people

McDermott said the group will plans AIDS aware-
ness activities during the year and will promote their goal
by distributing information and hosting speakers. Rob
Catrere, '72, a clinical psychologist, will speak Nov. 10

“The fact that no student has publicly announced that

 

he or she is HIV-positive does not mean we don’t have
HIV-positive students on campus,” said McDermott.

McDermott said the group also hopes to bring sec-
tions of the AIDS quilt to Lexington for display.

The quilt was first displayed in Washington, D.C., on
Oct. 11, 1987, and contained 8288 three-by-six-foot
cloth panels. On Saturday, the quilt covered 15 acres in
front of the Washington Monument and contained more
than 20,000 panels, each unique. While statistics coldly
indicate the havoc AIDS has wreaked, the quilt brings
the people who make up the statistics vividly to life.

“Visiting the quilt provides a perfect opportunity for
people to begin talk about the many difficult issues
surrounding HIV and AIDS,” according to booklets
distributed by The Names Project, the group respon-
sible for displaying the quilt.

Group to give business advice

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students will
help local business with cash ﬂow prob-
lems in more ways than one, with a

new student groupoffering consulting ‘

services to local businesses.

Senior Charles Honey founded Vol-
unteer Student Consulting, a group
comprised mostly of business, eco-
nomic, and accounting majors. The
group will consult clients on a project
basis, with a team of qualified students
working on each project.

“I came up with the idea last Janu-
ary,’ ’ Honey said. “The idea was to
break down some of the barriers be-
tween students and local businesses as
well as to give some of what we learned
at W&L back to the community. It also
offer students to get away from class-
room theory into the real-life problems
that confront small. businesses.’ ’

seniors,”

I I
cludiotromcs
AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARAN‘l'Z
KEF CWD
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA ‘
° SPEAKERTRADE UP PROGRAM

° BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
' CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
7' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
’ MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden 8: Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Wa nted
Attractive VMI cadet seeks SWF
for escort to Biggest Party in
country (Ring Figure). Must be
attractive and able to cary on an
intelligent conversation. Must
have a formal white dress. For
more info., call 463-9513

after 6 p.m. and ask for CRAFT.

Have
iiultm
riolgiimg
the
Gap

The group will work closely with
clients to deal with problems ranging
from cash ﬂow to budgeting. The group
currently has a very small membership,
but is to looking to grow in the coming
months.

‘P ‘ ‘The group is currently made up of
a handful of I . I I , I

Honey said.
“But we’ll
be having a
sign-up in
the coming
weeks look-
ing to re-
cruit some
sopho-
mores, jun-
iors and
more se-
niors.”
Honey has worked with Lexington
Downtown Development Association
Executive Director Diane Herrick and

 

Honey

Assistant Professor of Administration
Kipling Pirkle to bring the group to-
gether.

‘ ‘We are very pleased to be working
with the students,’ ’ Herrick said. ‘ ‘The
program will not only benefit local
businesses, but will give the students
the hands-on experience to improve
their business skills in the downtown
community.”

Members of the Lexington business
community will serve on an advisory
board to the VSC. Among others, the
membership will include Crestar Bank
president Frank E. Correll and David
Hawkins of Raetz & Hawkins Certi-
lied Public Accountants.

Honey believes that both students
and the community will benefit from
the VSC’s work.

‘ ‘The group has been well received
by everyone,” Honey said. “The stu-
dents are also excited about doing some-
thing tangible. We can learn a lot from
these small businesses.”

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

 

delivered hot and last to your door.

© 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

 

01989 Plzza Hut. Inc.

Call Us
an d Keep
Cramming.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!

I"""""""""""""""""""""'1

Student Special

2 pizzas for the price of 1

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY
WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

I Offer expires l2-I8-92

Our driver: carry no more than $20.

I-Iiut.

Llmibd deivety area.

 

 

l/20 cant cash roderrptlon valued

   

FCC to get its own money’ ,

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Contributing Writer

Soon the Freshman Orientation
Commitee won’t have to go begging
for money anymore.

Associate Dean of Students for
Freshmen Dennis Manning saidhe will
make FOC part of the university’s regu-
lar budget, instead of having to get bits
and pieces of its budget from different
places.

Co—chair Phil McKoy said FOC has
traditionally relied on the Executive
Committee, the Dean of Students and
the Associate‘ Dean of Students for
Freshmen for funding .

“Money shouldn’t have to come
from EC. FOC should have a perma-
nent account under the school with
control by the dean of freshmen,”
McKoy said.

Manning said the money he has
given the FOC in the past comes out of
the budget for the freshman dorms.

“Basically FOC takes up all the

J money we could use for dorm activities
during the year,” Manning said.

Expenditures for FOC this year in-
cluded t-shirts, the Freshman Record,
rental costs of a bowling alley and
miniature golf course, a band on Pizza
Night, transportation, entertainment
during the Adopt-A-Freshman dinner
and Playfair, a professional group that
leads ice-breaker games.

The FOC spent $12,600 on orienta-
tion this year.

Last year, FOC received $500 from
the EC. This year, the co-chairs peti-

Hearing board members named

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Contributing Writer

Juniors Laura Voeckel and Justin
Bakule were appointed by the Execu-
tive Committee to serve on the new
Student-Faculty Hearing Board.

The SFHB hears and adjudicates
complaints of sexual misconduct that
involve students at Washington and
Lee. The board is made up of four
students and four faculty members.
Voeckel and Bakule join seniors
Romana Franks and Michael Bergin.

Faculty members are Associate Pro-
fessor of Romance Languages Cecile
West—Settle, Professor of Law Brian
Murchison, Professor of Art History
Pamela Simpson, and Professor of

Phi Delt, KAon social probation

El PHI DELT, from page 1

asked not to be identified.

Eddings agreed.

“The severity of the punishment is
stemming from the Hill,” he said. “Right
now they ‘are trying to appease Buddy
[Atkins].”

Eddings said the chapter has cre-
ated new rules for when things are
broken and hopes that this punishment
will put an end to damage at Phi Delt.

“What the house corporation has

The Ring-tum Phi, October 15, 199 I

« FOC Co-chairs Teresa Williams and Robert Wilson prepare for I
this year's freshman orientation.

tioned the EC to cover the $13,000 cost
of orientation, but only received $2,000.
“The EC said they didn’t want to
give us the full amount because they
didn’t want the university to believe
the FOC had become a part of SAB,”
FOC Co—chair Carlin Jones said.
Although a university account has
been established and an increase in
funding from the EC has been pro-
vided, Manning is still in the process of
creating a separate line item for the
FOC budgeting process, but to do so he

Chemistry William Watt.

Voekel is a dorm counselor and has
led freshman date-rape seminars.

‘ ‘I realize [sexual assault] is a major
problem on this campus, and it is im-
portant that it is dealt with in a respon-
sible way,” she said.

Voekel said she considers herself a
good listener and hopes to be able to be
impartial as a board member.

Bakule said he felt the role of the
committee was not only to ajudicate
cases of sexual misconduct but to edu-
cate students about sexual assault on
campus.

“The key for all of us is bringing
fairness [to the board],’ ’ he said. Bakule
also serves as adorrn counselor and has
led a date rape seminar.

The board was formed last spring

done is in the best interest of the house
and hopefully we can learn from it,”
Eddings said. “We ’renot all heathens .”

Meanwhile, KA will also be out of
commission socially for the rest of fall
term. <

KA President Hank Huff said the
fratemity’s national office put the W&L
chapter on social probation for violat-
ing alcohol policy on Sept. 26.

Huff said KA did not card people
coming to a party and served alcohol
bought with chapter funds on the Sat-

 
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
    
  
   
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
  
  

C

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-t I P

must receive approval from the Boar
of Trustees.

“I think FOC has grown in size and ‘
scope to warrant funding,” Manging»
said. “It provides a meaningful experi- l
ence for upperclassmen during the year.
and clearly beneﬁts the freshmen.”

McKoy said orientation is too im-
portant to skimp on.

“We’re trying to orient one-fourth
of the student body to W&L tradit' n,’
McKoy said. “We shouldn’t hold ck.
at all [financially].”

after the dissolution of the ConfiRen-
tial Review Committee, which wa
previously responsible for cases of
physical as well as verbal assault. The‘
SFHB does not have the authority t‘
hear verbal assault cases. ‘I,
Sexual misconduct is defined as ‘ ‘in- I
appropriate physical conduct or threa ._
of a physical nature" by the Statement
on Personal Conduct published by the»
Dean of Students Office. ;
Students who believe they are vic-I
tims of sexual misconduct can bring“
their complaints to Associate Dean of
Students Anece McCloud, who ac% as”
a mediator in all cases. Both parties,
involved discuss their complaint with
McCloud, and if the case cannot be"
resolved, the case is brought before,the_
SFHB. ' 

D

urday after Tear Night, when represen-
tatives of the national organization
came to inspect the party. KA’s na-
tional organization is headquartered in
Lexington. O
Huff said though the chapter is on
social probation, it will be allowed to
hold a cocktail party on Parents Week-
end and, with good behavior, might be '
allowed to hold a Christmas party.
Stephen Russell, KA national com-
munication director, would not com-
ment on the chapter’s probation.

 

    
  

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

  

A Full Year

Galapagos

ADOPTION OPTION
Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant.
We have college degrees; and we both work in education
Our hobbies are music, golf, and church activities.

If you wish to talk with us, please call

1-800-296-2367
///////////////////////////////7///////////////////

otppotgoggo"

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

     
       
      
          
      

// // A

     
  

 
 

     

(703) 463-5988

     
 

///////////////////////////////////////
Germany

STUDY ABROAD

General Information Meeting

On

Tuesday, October 20

at

7 P.M.

In

A Spring Term,
A Semester, or

Room 114 University Center

OOOCampus Reps Wanted0OO
HEATWAVE VACATIONS
SPRING BREAK 1993
The best rates & the biggest
commissions. For more Informatitii,
Call 800-395-WAVE

Xcy
could own '2
thbspoce.
Call 463-858 1. _

 
 
    

   
 

 

England

    
       
     
    

  

 
 

Financial
i Aid
Available

      
          
 

   
      

‘I

he Ring-rum Phi, October 15, 1992

Water polo has rough week

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
, Phi Staff Writer

The W&L water polo team moves
into this Friday's contest with arch-
irival Richmond after completing a dis-
appointing two week stretch.
Over the past 8 games, W&L has
w only twice.
- t weekend's tournament at the
Java] Academy yielded a 1-3 mark,
‘I. ropping the team to 9-9 for the year.
During the eight games, W&L faced
* 1 )me of the East Coast’s top teams. In
th e toumament-opener, the Generals
w  pitted against Slippery Rock—
th 2 o.1teamontheEastCoast(ranked
N . 10 in the nation).
Slippery Rock had beaten W&L 19-
3 e week before. The Generals lost
the rematch, but behind the efforts of
sop omore Derek DeVries, the team
do bled their previous output, falling
18 ’.
The Generals rebounded with a 16-
10 win over Queens. Points leader
junior Greg Golub blasted a season-
high 6 goals by the Queens keeper,
which proved to be the margin of vic-

tory in the team’s second win over
Queens this season.

Navy proved to be too much for
W&L in the tearn’s third match of the
weekend, stopping the Generals 15-3.

The 11-9 overtime loss to Johns

Hopkins in the final game of the week- I

end was much more disquieting.

“The Hopkins game was frustrating
for us. We weren’t sharp and I wasn’t
happy with the rotations Ihad created,”
said head coach Page Remillard. “I
don’t think we went into the game with
the right frame of mind. All that's his-
tory, that was a game we shouldn't
have lost.” .

Despite the team’s apparent rever-
sal in fortunes, Remillard is quick to
point out that the mistakes that have
resulted in the closer losses are correct-
able.

“We’re not as disciplined as we’d
like to be, because we’re not used to
playing with each other. We’re very
young. We will improve with these
games under our belt.”

In addition to the intangible matura-
tion that needs to occur as the season
progresses, the team has also showed a
weakness in its man down play.

“We're not getting the job done on
either side [of man advantages.] We’re
not responding,” said Remillard.
“We’re not putting the ball into the
cage, and we ’re not getting good shots
on goal.”

W&L has only converted 39% of its
man up advantages, their opponents
have been successful 43% of the time.

One of W&L’s “Freshmen to
Watch,” Rich Cober, said the team has
to develop better chemistry.

“All of us are going to have to come
together. We really don't have a domi-
nant scorer, so we’re going to have to
play better as a team so we can get
better scoring chances and improve
our defense.”

With more experience and a week
to iron out the problems that arose over
the weekend in Amiapolis, W&L will
attempt to level their season series with
Richmond at two.

The last time these two met, Rich-
mond netted three goals in the ﬁnal
three minutes to down W&L at Cy
Twombly Pool 14-13.

W&L looks for a measure of re-
venge in front of the home crowd Fri-
day at 7 pm.

.4.

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Asuccessfulteam cannotbe mea-
s ed only by its victories.

Accordingly, the women’s soc-

‘cer team’s 2-0 home loss to
Gettysburg last Saturday pleased
head coach Janine Hathom.

“We strung together a good 9U
minutes and played better than we

ve in a while,” she said.

Although the loss stretched their
losing streak to seven games, the
Generals stayed with Gettysburg for
most of the game.

“We lost another game, but we
lostbetter," said Hathom. “We made
them beat us. We made one small
nﬂstake and they took advantage.”

After shutting out Gettysburg’s
potent attack in the first half, the
visitors found the back of the net in

. the second.

“It came down to a defensive
miscue on the first [goal],’’ said
Ihthom, “but their second goal was
just beautiful‘.

“Gettysburg probably didn't real-
ize how competitive we can be,” said
Hathom. “It helped that they underes-
timated us.

“Since we ’re in such a rut it all gets
magniﬁed and seems longer and greater
than normal. We just need to become
more consistent. The kids are just bust-
ing and I can’t ask them to do much
more.”

The hard times have forced this
team to practice harder than any team
Hathom has coached in her six years at
W&L.

“It’s almost a blessing because
they’re working harder and setting a
precedent,” she said. “We’ve learned
an incredible amount and will see it
down the road.”

The Generals travel the roads of
North Carolina this weekend, playing
at Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Guilford and a powerful Methodist
squad.

The Generals should beat Guilford
and the Methodist game will be ex-
tremely challenging, according to
Hathom.

“Methodist isn’t having a good

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum.Phi
Senior Susan Moseley prepares for a colllson with a player from Gettysburg.

\'Nomen,’s soccer loses
in spite of improvements

year,” she said. “They'll be better
than us, but we can keep it close.”

The team rounds out its season
withLynchburgand Messiah, games
that W&L should win.

“Out of the next four games, we
have the possibility to win three,”
said Hathom. “I think this will be a
good trip for us and we will be on
our way to Lynchburg, Messiah,
and the [ODAC] tournament.”

Hathom looks forward to the
tournament quarterﬁnals on Oct. 28.

“We could be overlooked and
surprise people. I really like this
team and I'll say it until I’m blue in
the face.”

W 8: L UNIVERSITY LENFEST SERIES PRESENTS

-MARTHA GRAHAM II

Tickets available NOW!

§

- S.

Hams -rer

AN  IVERSARYSAIE

SAVE $1.00 PER LB.
40 - 50 COUNT

MEDIUM

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
GRADE "A" - BONELESS

CHICKEN
BREIISI'...............

BONELESS

Chickﬁn Bf;

mm are MEA7

LIMIT 3

ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

‘REDUCED!

: China“,
T
14 v ‘cg: ‘u

ton on.

WITH

LB.  

MIX OR MATCH
ALL VARIETIES
APPLES

0 RED/ GOLDEN DELICIOUS
- GRANNY SMITH
0 GALA
0 ROME
0 JONATHAN
0 MCINTOSH
0 CORTLAND
0 EMPIRE
0 IDA RED
0 GREENING
0 STAYMAN
\ _: ‘ gs ..

LB

4

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITE .~

REDUCED
PRICE

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

STUDENT'S

WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER

COURTESY CARD.

HBIIISTGGIBI

roua. NAME
YOUR ADDRESS
YOUR cmr. s'r,m-;
x/x or/or/or
1111111

11111

IT ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134
HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00

coupon AND SAVE. A

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON

r_________

$1.00 OFF:

ANY $3.00 on MORE I
PURCHASE in awe
smrooo DEPARTMENT I

THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I

LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER GOOD OCT. I4 THRU OCT. 20, I992

COUPON smrooo I
I

ALUE
M ........(9_,

Prices Effective Thrau

Prices In This Ad Eitective Wednesday October I4 Through u
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold

IN THE DELI-BAKERY

GLAZED
DONUTS... ............................ ..DOZ.

SELECTED VARIETIES
HEALTHY CHOICE

SOUPS ................................... .. l5 oz.

HUNTER FARMS
ORANGE

129

I99
JUICE ............................................. ..GAl.
56 50. FT.

I/JXIPER TOWELS ...... ..ROll O59

BUY FROM THE DELI-BAKERY
our LB. or runxsv smsr

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE LB.

I
I
' FREE

[69

Th’ c J
I N9i'Tsei’z‘é§’.'r’" ufll.

c
_a  l>7;'§P\7’i's'ic ..

l Perf (.4;
P c losgocar T0“ I’?

I c .583; -.-.
I4 Thru Oct r 20,
I992.

N % . .: I
I  llamsreerer
L._ __

VALUABLE 30¢ COUPON
6 PACK - 12 oz. com:

___.._‘9___

Per F_o ._, P?aLIP\??il COUPON
r I

Pu c 3:3‘ I0,“
N Oée gtolggr

PLU 2121

I 4445 GROCERY

I4 IIwu'%gl« .... 20,
I CCTIJITOANI
VALUE
30¢

L :_ _ _ _ _

h October 20, I 992
esday, October 20 I992. In Lexington Stores
To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal rood stamps.

L

  

Last Week:

Football- W&L 27,Davidson 12 (2-2)
WP- Johns Ho kins11,W&L 9(OT) (9-9)
MSoc— R-MC ,W&L 0 (4-6)

WSoc- Get sburg 2,W&L 0 (2-8)

VB- W&L ,Lynch. 1 (12-11)

CC- (M)2nd to Catho1ic;(W) 2nd at D.C.

PAGE 8

@112 iﬁiiig-mm Eiﬁlti

SPORTS

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

 aw9s?hESC 10/17 1:30

WP- Richmond 10/17 7:00
MSoc— Va.Wesle an 10/ 17 1°00

 

WSoc- at Guil. 1 /17;at Methodist 10/18 r.

VB- E&H 10 15 5:00
CC- at D IH tate Meet 10.17
WTen- at MWC 10/17

OCTOBER 15, 1992

Generals maul Fighting Wildcats, 27-12

MacLane sets offensive school record; Wagne

By SEAN O’RoURI<E
Phi Sports Editor

Coaches constantly preach to their players about fast

' starts, and taking the early momentum.

Head football coach Gary Fallon is no exception.

He believes momentum and conﬁdence are the two
major aspects that determine wins and losses.

Heading into their fourth game against the Davidson
Fighting Wildcats, the Generals had taken Fallon’s preach-
ing to heart and come up with big turnovers the first or
second time an opposing offense handled the ball.

You knew at some point that streak would end.

Davidson quarterback, Richard Howell ended the Gen-
erals’ string of good fortune in about 10 seconds.

Davidson received the opening kick off and returned the
ball to their own 34 yard line.

Howell received the play from the sideline, came under
center and called out the signals.

The ball was snapped and Howell took it down the line
of scrimmage, faked a pitch to the running back, and kept it
himself. He took off over the right tackle.

See ya!

Sixty-six yards later the Wildcats had a six to nothing
lead. Howell just outran everyone to the end zone. Generals
comer back Jon Wagner seemed to have a good angle on
him, but Howell was able to outrun Wagner’s reach.

The extra point failed, and the score remained the same.

“My first thought was to have the officials blow the
whistle to wake our kids up,” said Fallon. “Then Itold the
kids to keep their poise, don’t get rattled.”

The key word for the Generals’ offense in the first quarter
was turnover.

W&L gave the ball away three times, twice in their own
end of the field.

Fallon said he was getting frustrated because the offense
was stopping themselves. ,

“We were defeating ourselves early on,” said Fallon.
“Our first three possessions: fumble, interception and an-
other interception, and two of them were in our end of the
field.”

The defense stopped the Wildcats each time, and in fact,
Davidson got negative yards out of the three possessions off
the turnovers.

“Our D[efense] did a real fine job. They met the chal-
lenge and came through,” said Fallon.

The defense would also turn the game around.

On the Wildcats’ fourth series of the first quarter, Howell
tried to hit stand-out wide receiver Dan Lamar on a ten-yard
out pattern. But Wagner read the play perfectly and ripped
it out of I.arnar’s hands and took off down the sideline.

He trotted into the end zone, untouched, for a 49-yard
touchdown. However, Marc Newman hit the left up-right on
the extra point, so the score remained tied at six.

The touchdown shifted the momentum in the Generals’
favor.

“Wagner's interception made it even,” said Fallon.

For Wagner, it was a much-needed boost after a tough
day against Randolph-Macon.

“It felt good,”said Wagner. “I saw the wide receiver slow
his feet and cut for the outside. I was in the right place-at the
right time.” -

From there on out, both the offense and defense played
excellent football.

Senior tri-captain Phil Spears sacked Howell on the next
series and forced a fumble. Jason Chartrand pounced on it at
the Davidson 40. 1

One play later, Geren Steiner hit Michael MacLane
along the line of scrimmage and he took off down the left
sideline. William Propst provided the key block, and
MacLane scored just before the end of the first quarter.

Newman hit the extra point, and the Generals led 13 to
six.
By the end of the first half the score was 13 to nine.
W&L struck first in a well-played third quarter.

The Generals had a first and 10 at their own 40. Steiner,
who had some problems hitting receivers for much of the
day, made up for it on a slant pass to Propst.

Steiner threw a rope to Propst between two defenders and
Propst did the rest. Sixty yards later, the Generals led 20 to
nine.

“He[Steiner] shows ﬂashes sometimes,” said Fallon.
“He threw into double coverage and over threw some
receivers. Then he threads the needle to Propst, and the pass
to Maclane was a check off by him at the line of scrimmage.

“We need the production out of the position.”

The defense led the way for the Generals. They only
allowed two field goals after Howel1’s touchdown run.

Linebacker Lyle Smith said the way the defense played
on Saturday gives them a lot of confidence for later games.

“We definitely gained a lot of confidence. The defensive
secondary played excellent, and they will help us down the
road.”

Geren Steiner hands off to Michael MacLane during the game against Emory 8r Henry. That was‘ A

I-purpose yards. He accomplished the same ieat against centre

Lane gets a shot
O

MacLane's first gamewlth more 200 at
and Davidson. One more and he will break the career record in a single season. Mac
at the record aginst the Hampden-Sydney Tigers this Saturday.

The ﬁnal highlight of the game came with about a

minute-and-a-half left.

W&L was at the Davidson 25 and just trying to rim out
the clock. Steiner handed the ball off to MacLane for a rim

up the middle.

MacLane hit the line and did a 360 to avoid the first two
tacklers, he then made a nice cut to his right to avoid four
more, and sprinted the final 17 yards for another touchdown.

It was a Barry Sanders-like rim.

That closed out the scoring, making the ﬁnal 27 to 12.
MacLane finished the day with 23 carries for 152 yards;

r’s interception for TDkeys comeback

\-at

of the Week honors.

Satirrday.

afford to.”

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

three catches for 59 yards. It was the third time he had gaine -
more than 200 all-purpose yards, which is a season record,
and ties the career record held by Stewart Atkinson.
MacLane's efforts earned him the ODAC Offensive Player

Despite the good play after the first quarter, Fallon giys
the team still makes too many mistakes and that they will
have to play better against a team like Hampden-S ydney this

“A good team can’t make many mistakes. They can’t‘

     
    
   
  
    
   
  

By KEmi GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

It’s true-youcan’tgo home again.

Or maybe you just shouldn’t.

Not if you play for the Washing-
ton and Lee men's soccer team.

With a 1-0 loss to Randolph-
Macon College, Tuesday, the team
continued to endure the “Lexington
jinx.” The Generals have not won at
home since last year.

Washington and Lee played the
Yellow Jackets evenly for much of
the game, but Randolph-Macon net-
ted the lone goal with l6miriutes left
in the second half.

The loss dropped the Generals’

Generals are 2-3 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with three confer-
ence games remaining.

Randolph-Macon entered the game
9-3-1 on the season, but had lost their
last two, each by a 1-0 score.

The Yellow Jackets controlled the
early part of play, keeping the ball
mostly in the Generals’ half of the
field.

Randolph-Macon couldn’tpenetrate
the strong W&L defense, though, and
eventually the Generals got their poise
and threatened the R-MC net a few
times, but the teams finished the first
45 minutes of play scoreless.

W&L got a scare midway through
the first half when a loose ball was

Steinbrook. It hit the corner of the goal
post and bounced right back to
Steinbrook, inches from the goal-line
and withaYellow Jackets player stand-
ing right on the door step.

The teams played an even second
half with the ball most often around
midfield and only nine shots fired on
goal.

Senior sweeper-back Greg Wil-
liams,' whose two goals this season
have doubled his career total, nearly
redirected a long cross toward the Yel-
low Jackets’ goal, but had it deﬂected
away.

Several oppommitiespassed by both
squads until, at 74:17 of the game,
Randolph-Macon scored from 15 yards

The loss was the second straight
one-goal loss for the Generals.

Last season,
W&L went 5-
2-1 at the Lib-
erty Hall Fields,
outscoring their
opponents 15-8.

In their three
home contests
in 1992, the
Generals have
been outscored
by an astound-
ing 10-3.

Generals’ head coach Rolf Piranian
dismisses the idea of a home ﬁeld dis-
advantage, or “Lexington jinx.”

Men’s soccer team suffers through ‘Lexington jinx’

A.

O I

 

 

away,” said Piranian.

The Generals’ scoring deﬁciency,
he said, is definitely a problem that has
to be overcome.

In eight out of their ten games, the
Generals have been held to two goals
or less.

“Our best offensive threat [Tues-
day] was our sweeper-back,” said
Piranian. “That's pretty sad.”

The team's defense might as well
expand its territory a little since they
have done a solid job in their own end
of the field

Since a 3-0 loss to Bethany College
five games ago, W&L has yielded only
four goals.

Unfortunately, the opposing de-

lowing the Generals an average of 3

just 1.11 goals per game.

“It seems we can’t winunless we
shut someone out,” Piranian said.

W&L plays its ﬁnal three regiﬁ
lar season games in Lexington ver-
sus ODAC foes.

This Saturday, W&L will host
the two-time defending ODAC
champions, Virginia Wesleyan.

Piranian said that the Marlins
are a much better team than th!
Randolph-Macon squad that beat
the Generals Tuesday.

However, Wednesday, the Mar-
lins lost to Hampden-Sydney Col-
lege, 2-1.

“This year, who knows what can

    
  
  
 
  

  

 
   

 

record to 4-6, and 0-3 at home. The knocked past goaltender Mike out. “It doesn’t matter if we’re home or fenses have been just as effective, al- happen,” said Piranian. O.
, ‘ --u--¢—u'n—-n-~----3:-n--1

Do You Want VISA 8r MasterCard Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAliTATl0il.FL 33318 I $§%si§§]5IEI2E;§$yg:b:L&g1;3
I. I‘ h d U ' lndi 'dualsandStudentOrganizaIions
....,,.... ‘:2;.i°.:..°.1*:...r.:.“.::.:..:.r..":°::.:.°::s;‘:.::c.°.::: . Y ES! nwanmsa-misrsacann-omen . warzzrmmotsrrmcrrrir,
credit cards.."ln your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I cards Endosed nnd 95 which is 100% mfundabie um; I call I11enatior1‘sle1dcr.lntcr-Carnpos

' CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN Er-:noREI . appmved ,mmed,a,e,y_ . j_ Programs 1-8003276013

visAe and Masiercardo the credit cards you I I '5 Students 0,. Orgamzations

Ease“ an§'1‘It3cr:‘Eg?:-1:LIi2TON—l§N§l'-E‘l:'[fA’iAN’I’wrI:‘;:rN: : NAME A : promote our Florida Spring

EMERGENCY (‘.'iSH-TICKETS--RESTAURANTS— ' ADDRESS ' packages. Earn MONEY and
HorrEi.s—Mo'ri-:i.s—c.As-CAR RENTALS— FREE [rips organize sman gr

' -
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR cREDrr RATING! : CITY » STATE _ZIP I Large groups. Call Campus
‘mgeﬂ , PHONE S.S.* . Marketing. 800-423-5264
E 0 ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
G“ .s“_'¢;‘=V£. :0 (Jedi: _ ' : SIGNATURE : r‘ " "
*‘:.*.'.':««=::.=- . ° ‘*°"' *’ "°°°“*- . W  . I
°‘ " “”"°‘“‘ “"s°"""Y 3“°"‘“‘°°“ 5° I 5°"'°=° ”°°‘-""'°'* 100% GUARANTEED! | I ‘
I ._ ____________I L -

       
      
  
  
   
 
     
     

   
    
  
       
   
 
 

SENIORS

Do you want to work in any of these cities?

Washington Philadelphia
New York San Francisco

THE OFFICE oF CAREER PLANNING
AND PLACEMENT
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
INvITEs YOU To ATTEND THE

K Financial Aid for Spring
Term Abroad Programs

 

Chicago
Then you need to meet this important deadline:
Resumes due in the CDP Oﬂ‘ice before
4:00 p.m. on Friday Oct 23.
To review company descriptions and learn
about submitting resumes, come to the
Career Development and Placement Office

The Selective Liberal Arts Consortium (SLAC)

 
 

NINTH ANNUAL
MINORITY CAREER DAY:

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, I992
OMNI HOTEL ~
DOWNTOWN CHARLOTTESVILLE

1992-93 financial aid form must
be on file in the financial aid office
to receive financial aid for Spring
term abroad.

  
   
  

 

JOB FAIRS or 4 ‘
Chicago - January 4 (M) — 23 organizations
Washington - January 5 (T) — 24 organizations . . . . .
New York - January 6-7 (W—Th) - 31 organizations PI°l0T1ty dCaCI11I1€ fO1' submitting
San Francisco - January 11 (M) — 13 organizations ' '
Philadelphia — January 13 (W) — 18 organizations  for asslstance ls NOV’ 2’  I

MEET I40 EMPLOYERS FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY.

JOIN MINORITY STUDENTS FROM 50 COLLEGES AND ,
UNIVERSITIES IN VIRGINIA AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. '

 
      
   

Any questions — Contact
the Financial Aid Office

REGISTER THROUGH YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OR
CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE.

BRING MULTIPLE COPIES OF YOUR RESUME!

   

K J

 

 

‘THE lli\ll‘«/E':P.SlTY Lzmsavr
Wﬂe$'l%ll‘-§iTi‘Ui-l 3. LEE Ur-.:tvt.?I?3llt,

il'_“1l2"“"l"‘.V'tl \I,l ’)A.l_H(1 Y
YT_.  L11 .. .

OCT 2 3 I992:
efcome

Tarents

RAISING THIE CURTAIN

Opens Tonight At The Lenfest Center [9

Sweet Victory
Generals Break

Home Losing Streak
With Last Week’s Win ®

Ultra illing-tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 92, NO. 7

hoto by AmyFre,‘ The Ring’-turvn Phi
Junior Cottie Miles clasps his hands in a Clinton-
Iike pose at Wednesday's debate audition.

Debaters
take aim

By CRAIG BURKE
Phi Staff Writer

0 Future presidential wanna-bes will present their party
platforms Wednesday night in the Generals Headquarters.
The Graharn-Lee-Washington Literary Society and the
Student Activities Board are sponsoring a mock debate, in
which student impersonators will represent presidential
candidates.
Last night, students auditioned to play roles of the major
candidates in the presidential race. Hopefuls were given
three minutes to impress a panel of faculty and student
judges with lcnowledge of their candidates.
Junior Andrew Schneider will take center stage Oct. 28
as President Bush.
“I hope the debate will educate students,” Schneider
said. “Especially those students who didn’t watch the
I ebates.”
Junior Cottie Miles won the rights to Democratic nomi-
nee Bill Clinton, and freshman Tom Fink will portray
‘independent Ross Perot.
Senior Cameron Hurnphries will take the stage asHoward
Phillips, candidate for the U.S. Taxpayers Party. Senior
Richard Hill will represent the Libertarian Party candidate

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCOTBER 22, 1992

Surveys eye sexual violence

Women
repon
assauﬂs

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

Ten W&L women who said they
were raped or sexually assaulted last
year said their assailants were W&L
men.

According to an annual survey of
freshman women, six women in last
year's freshman class were raped and
six were sexually assaulted.

Of the 12, 10 said they were as-
saulted by W&L students and two did
not say who assaulted them.

The survey was conducted by Asso-
ciate Dean of Students Anne Schroer-
Lamont. Senior Shannon Comer ana-
lyzed the results for a sociology class.

Seven women who said they were
raped or assaulted said the incidents
occurred in the freshman dorms.

One woman said the incident hap-
pened in Gaines, two in fraternity
houses and one at a country house. One
woman did not say where the incident
happened.

The 12 women who said they were
raped or assaulted at W&L made up 9
percent of the freshman women, down
from 11 percent in 1991 and 14 percent
in 1990.

The survey also found that the per-
centage of women who were raped or
assaulted before they came to college
has gone up, from 7 percent in ’90 to 15
percent in ’92.

The survey said only two of the 12
women who said they had been as-
saulted or raped said they reported the
incident to university officials.

. Percentage of students at W&L and statewide agreeing with the following:

Ila woman knows she is going to be raped,
she ml , ht as well relax and enjoy It.

It a woman engages in necking and she lets it
get out of hand, it’s her fault it her partner
forces sex on her.

Results provided
by the Dean of Students Office

W&L men doubt charges more

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

W&L men are three times more likely than
other Virginia college men to believe that a
woman who charges a man with rape is lying.

A survey of sexual attitudes given to 5,000
Virginia college students in October, 1991
and to 262 W&L freshmen last spring indi-
cates that W&L men place more blame on a
woman in a rape situation than college men in
the rest of the state

In the survey, 18.1 percent of W&L fresh-
man men agreed or strongly agreed with the
statement, “Most men accused of rape are
really innocent.” Statewide, only 5 percent of
college men surveyed agreed with the state-
ment, less than one-third of the W&L male
response.

Associate Dean of Students Anne Schroer-
Lamont, who conducted the W&L survey,
said W&L men seem to be more concerned

about being charged with a rape they did not
commit.

“There is a pretty high fear on this campus
of being wrongly accused,” Schroer-Lamont
said.

Schroer-Lamont said that overall, men have
a lot to learn about rape.

“Male students seem to have a lesser de-
gree of sensitivity to rape,” Schroer-Lamont
said.

The survey also indicates that women at

W&L are more sensitive to rape issues than
college women statewide.
‘ Two. percent of women around the state
said that most men accused of rape are inno-
cent. At W&L, just 0.8 percent of the women
surveyed agreed with the statement.

Most of the survey questions show W&L
men to be less sensitive and W&L women to
be more sensitive to rape issues than other
Virginia college students.

The survey found 44.8 percent of W&L
men believed women “cause their own rape

by the way they act or the clothes they wear,”
while only 35 percent of men statewide agreed
with the statement. For women, 15 percent of
women agreed statewide, but only 9.1 percent
agreed at W&L.

In some situations, W&L men were notas
willing as other college men to place the
blame for rape on the woman.

Only 5.2 percent of W&L men said that a
woman who goes to a man ’s room implies that
she wants to have sex, down from 9 percent
for other Virginia college men.

W&L men were also less likely to believe
that the woman is at fault if she kisses a man
and is later raped. W&L men were also less
likely to think that a woman who initiates a
sexual encounter will have sex with anyone.

The survey also found that 54.4 percent of
the W&L men surveyed believe there is too
much peer pressure on college students to
have sex, up from 48 percent statewide. The

El See SURVEY, page 5

‘Andre Marrou.

Shaw
back on
councﬂ

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee Director of
Communications Brian Shaw has re-
joined the Lexington City Council four
months after his four-year term on the
council expired.

0 The council appointed Shaw last
Thursday to replace A.C. “Sonny"
Jordan, who retired last month.

Shaw said someone from W&L tra-
ditionally sits on the council. When
Shaw decided not to rim for re-election
last May, W&L Director of Develop-
ment Lex McMillan ran for a seat but
was defeated.

Shaw, who was not at the Oct. 15
meeting, said Lexington Mayor H.E.

‘ ‘Buddy’ ’ Derrick approached him af-
ter Jordan’s retirement and asked him
if he would be interested in rejoining
e council.

Shaw said last week that he did not
campaign for the position, but said he
would accept the seat.

“I would welcome the chance to
serve the people of Lexington again,”
Shaw said.

Joan Dunbar, who owns a local real

Estate and construction firm, said she
applied for the vacant seat through the
CityManager’s offrcethreeweeks ago.
Dunbar said she wrote letters to the
council members explaining why she
believed herself qualiﬁed.

There was no public discussion on

haw’s appointment at the meeting,

‘ and Dunbar was not mentioned.

Councilman Greg Raetz said before
the meeting last week that Shaw was
the top choice to replace Jordan be-
cause of his experience on the council.

‘ ‘There’s no substitute for someone

Who has council experience,” Raetz
said. “My personal view is that Shaw
will be an excellent addition to the
council.”

Shaw will serve the remainder of
Jordan’s term, which expires in June
1994.

0

«mam

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

. . . And they all fall down

Sophrnore Peyton Turner and her young playmates explore the newly fallen
leaves. Turner works with the children at Yellow Brick Road Child Care Center
as part of a developmental psychology class.

Facult discusses future
ofW& honors program

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

The University Scholars program faces an
uncertain future after a motion was made at the
last faculty meeting to eliminate the program.

The faculty tabled the motion and will take the
issue up at its Nov. 3 meeting, but the move has
left current scholars confused as to why the
program might be killed.

University Scholars Director John Evans said
a faculty committee began reviewing the pro-
gram last spring to determine if the program was
still serving a useful purpose.

“It is a reasonable thing to review a program
to determine if it is wonh keeping,”Evans said.
“No trumpets sounded, it was just an intelligent
administrative decision."

According to the Catalog, the Scholars pro-
gram provides “extra challenge and opportunity
for our best prepared, most able students.” Stu-
dents admitted to the program must take a read-
ing course, three honors seminars and must write
an honors thesis. Scholars may also design inde-
pendent seminars and take one-on-one tutorials
with professors.

Evans said the program was designed in
W&L’s last days before coeducation when the
quality of students was at a low point.

“The very bright students had trouble frndin g

one another and this program helped them do
that,” Evans said.

Evans said the conditions which made the
program a necessity then are not true any more
because the quality of students is much better
now than it was in the early 1980s.

“The original cause no longer holds,” Evans
said. “The question is, do you continue a pro-
gram when the conditions that brought it into
being are not there anymore?”

Evans said the program is taxing on faculty
members who agree to teach a course for the
Scholars.

“Not only are they teaching a course in addi-
tion to their normal duties,” Evans said, “but they
must prepare a very intensive course that they
will never repeat.”

Some scholars said the program may need to
be revamped, but not eliminated.

Scholar Scott Howe, ’93, believes the mission
of the program has evolved.

“It’s not the best and the brightest anymore,”
Howe said. “Now, it’s the most motivated.”

Howe acknowledged that the scholars have
not had areading seminar or a speaker for awhile,
two of their traditional activities.

Scholar Jim Prather, ’93, said the program
can be salvaged.

“Whatever is wrong, it’s nothing so severe

Cl See SCHOLARS, page 4

EC denies ACLU funding, calls group ideologically partisan

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee denied the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union funding Monday, say-
ing the group is ideologically partisan, despite a
petition signed by about 250 students in favor of
funding the group. '

The EC voted unanimously not to give the
ACLU $1250 that the group had requested. EC
representatives Robert Stewart and James
Rambeau abstained, and Carol Pierce, Jay Stearne
and Kevin Webb were not at the meeting.

ACLU President Andrew Schneider said the
ACLU is not partisan because it does not support
political candidates. He said the ACLU’s goal is to
ﬁght for the Bill of Rights and teach and defend
civil rights principles.

EC Secretary Bob Tompkins said an organiza-
tion does not have to support political candidates
to be partisan.

“There are different interpretations of the Bill
of Rights and what it means,” Tompkins said.
“The ACLU supports a particular ideological
stance on that.”

Schneider said about 95 percent of the people
he confronted signed the petition in support of
ACLU funding, even if they did not agree with
the organization as a whole.

The EC examined the petition, but some mem-
bers questioned its validity.

“I would like to know how many of those 250
people knew what they were signing," senior EC
Rep. Susan Mosely said.

Sophomore EC Rep. Robert Stewart said some
EC members took the petition too lightly. He also
questioned how representative of the student

body the petition is.

EC President Josh MacFarland read a state-
ment by Spectator Editor
Cameron I-lumphries dur-
ing the meeting.
Humphries stated hisopin-
ion that the ACLU should
not be funded.

“We heard
[Schneider’s] side and 1
had gotten some opinions
contrary to that,”
McFarland said. “I
thought it would behoove
the committee to hear the
other side.”

Schneider said the statement was ﬁlled with
misconceptions about the ACLU.

“The [statement] was half erroneous,”

MacFarland

Schneider said. “The thing that struck me most
was that Josh had planned to do research on the
ACLU and a week later it consisted of only a
[statement] by the editor of the Spectator.”

Stewart said he thought Hurnphries statement
was unnecessary.

“It wasn’t supposed to be a forum,” Stewart
said. “It was supposed to be us discussing with
[Schneider] whether or not we were going to
fund the ACLU.”

Stewart said the EC scrutinized the ACLU
more closely titan most groups making requests.

“Because of the national reputation of the
ACLU it got that kind of scrutiny,” Stewart said.

Most EC members said they were concerned
with the national reputation and ideologically
partisan stance of the ACLU and not the activi-
ties Schneider proposed in his budget for the
campus chapter.

PAGE 2

 

 

flirt {Ring-tttm iﬁlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Yes, professor,
it costs a quarter

As many of you have noticed, The Ring-tum Phi has begun
charging non-students for copies of the paper. During the past
week, we have received many questions about the reasoning
behind this change, and we think it is only fair to explain.

In the past, the Phi has received a bulk “donation” from the
Executive Committee, which meant that student activities fees
paid for both student and faculty papers. The Phi was treated as
just another student organization, potentially at the mercy of the
student government. In theory, any EC, present or future, could
have closed the Phi’s account and shut down the paper for
controversial articles. If the Phi is to function truly as a “real
newspaper,” such an arrangement could not continue.

This year, the Phi proposed a change in its relationship with
the EC. The EC purchased a subscription on behalf of the
student body for a semester, with the option of renewing or
canceling the subscription at the beginning of winter term. The
agreement was closer to the “real worl ” relationship of news-
paper to subscribers, freeing the paper from potential pressure
and relieving the EC from liability for the Phi’s actions.

During the negotiations, the EC and the Phi recognized that
students should not spend their activities fees for faculty and
staff newspapers. This would be comparable to the subscribers
of The Washington Post paying extra for their papers so the Post
could send free subscriptions to one group of readers, say
professors. If the faculty and staff wish to receive a product,
then they should pay just like anybody else. The EC and the Phi
agreed that a block faculty subscription, similar to the one sold
to the student body, would be a fair solution.

The Phi then notified university administrators to explain the
new arrangement and to offer them a bulk subscription for
faculty and staff at the same rate paid by students. The admin-
istration proved reluctant to reach an agreement, saying they
could not understand the Phi’s reasoning and asking for more
time to consider the proposal.

As of now, they are still resisting what they condemn as a
“break from tradition.” Until the administrators make a final
decision about the subscription or another system of payment

is arranged, the Phi will allow individual faculty members to
purchase their copies outside the Generals Headquarters or in
the Co-op.

We look forward to a prompt resolution of our discussions
with the administration. ’

I _.._..»_,.- ....,v..,..t_.,.» ..

Parents!

We at the Phi would just like to welcome all visiting parents
to Washington and Lee. We know you’re excited to see your
sons and daughters again, and we hope you have a pleasant
weekend.

We ’d like to invite all parents and students to come by The
Ring-tum Phi’s reception, Friday from 4:30-6:30 p.m. in the
Gaines Gatehouse. We’ll all be there, more than happy to
answer your questions and hear your comments.

Hope to see you there!

Quote of the Week

If I give out too many, please pass them —— excuse the word -
to the left.
— Professor of History Jefferson Davis Futch

flirt filing-titm iﬂlii ~

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

~ News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plurruner

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

OPINION

1'he Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

I HAVE RETURNED!

New York name-calling mugs politics ~

NEW YORK—— The cab crawls
through congealed traffic. The driver,
an immigrant from some fragment of
the Soviet Empire, un-
derstands little En-

charged that Ferraro “took $340,000
from a child pomographer.” Ferraro’s
husband rented warehouse space to a

glish. Lucky him.
Someone once said

Times Square is beau-

tiful if you can't read.

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

New York today is tol-
erable if you can't un-
derstand political commercials like the
one snarling from the cab radio, revil-
ing “mudslide Bob Abrams” as a
thrower of “manure."

The Democratic nominee for sena-

tor is Robert Abrams, the state’s attor= =
ney general, who recently madenewsi

by skipping Manhattan’s Columbus
Day parade and calling his opponent,
two-term incumbent AlfonseD’Arnato,
a “fascist.” Abrams is a liberal in good
standing (wants to cut defense spend-
ing 50 percent; favors gay rights as a
litmus test for judicial norriinees) but
did not duck the parade for the correct
liberal reason (that Columbus was a
fascist who inflicted Eurocentri sin and
syphilis on the indigenous peoples of
the North American paradise).

Rather, Abrams, who needs cash,
had to go prospecting for some of it
upstate (where he paraded for Colum-
bus in Binghamton). Anyway, most of
this state’s Italian Americans—-1 5 per-
cent of the voters—are Republicans.
Besides, Abrams has an Italian prob-
lem.

Remember Geraldine Ferraro and
the rumors of mob associations that
muddled the Mondale-Ferraro ticket in
1984? Last month Abrams won a four-
wayprirnary,beatingFerraro by 11,254
votes out of 1.5 million votes cast.
lriitially Ferraro had a 30-point lead.
Then another rival, Elizabeth
Holtzman, this city's comptroller,

mob-cormected pomographer for three
years after she promised to have him
evicted.

Ferraro, wrapping herself in the
skirts of Saint Anita, said Holtzman

“WY b'°"l’i°‘°3.i'¢31 1)’ 3,‘‘’9i“?P 5!“ 5.1.‘§,’$.'
acting just like the rneniin the Clarence ~

Thomas hearir'ig'." Abrams, who is bio-
logically incorrect in this Year of the
Woman. piled on, fretting about re-
ports tliatsomeconti'ibutorstoFerraro's
congressional campaigns had
Runyonesque nicknames like “One-
Eyed Charlie” and “Billy the Butcher.”

Ferraro said she was a victim of
“guilt by ethnicity” but Abrams in-
sistedthat“FerraroattackingD’Amato
on the sleaze issue would be a classic
case of the pot calling the kettle black.”
D’Amato's senseofchivalrywasstirred

on Ferraro’s behalf (although he was .

the first this year to raise the mob issue
about her). He called Abrams a savage
and a “sissy.” A savage sissy? Go fig-
ure.

Abrams was born in the Bronx on
the Fourth of July —— a good career
move — in 1938 and has been a politi-
cal careerist since age 27. Heis running
as an outsider, of course, as is D’Amato,
who is seeking to win years 13 through
18 in the Senate.

No slouch as a name-caller,
D’Amato answers the “fascist” charge
by calling Abrams something worse-—
an “incumbent." Abrams calls

D’Amato “a desperate rat.” D'Amato
calls Abrams a “sleaze bag."

New York, once upon a time the
nation's cultural capital, has the most
intellectual senator, Pat Moynihan, and
the least, D’Amato, who is known as
the Senate's Bart Simpson — crude
and proud of it.

He is proudest of the nickname
“SenatorPothole,”at.ribute, soto speak,
to his manic miniaturization of poli-
tics. He has built a career on the prin-
ciple that “no
service is too
small.” He

In this city, where

De Witt Clinton, William Seward, Elihu
Root, Robert Wagner, Herbert Lehman
and Jacob Javits.

Abrams’ “fascist” remark, which he
says was“unfortunate,”ventedhisfrue
tration with D’Amato's negative ads
that play fast and loose with such facts
as they contain. D ’Amato, figuring that
30 seconds is a ﬁlibuster in in-your-
face New York, is running 10-second,
kick-in—the-groin ads, such as: “Bob
Abrams demanded a $6 million-a-ye
luxury office
suite. Now he
wants to raise
your taxes. Bob

serves anyone . . . . p *
“'.rlloW.ilIil¢tli1n.ii’Z,..’‘,.f.P‘?l!t!¢§T.m!F“'°$; 8 10081 Abrams. Hope-
beuseful. He is industry ,(muggmg)'- and ’ lesslylibera1.”
"°f”°‘“b“”‘° I‘ ever’ one worries about I“ “"5 °“"
would get a th 3: tt_ where politics;
fascist’spothole 8 me groups ge mg mimics a local
filled (but only scdissaedn (disrespected) industry (mug-
if the fascist ‘ . ,, . ’ ging) and every-
wefearegistefx     3b- one worries
voterorhadrela- hon-ed not just, of even about ethnic
tives whowere). - - - groups gettin v
The Same primarily, because it ..disb_.ed..(dis

Ethics Comrnit- connotes totalitarian spected), the
tee says he has ' ' ' term “fascist” is
conducted “the Fonvlctlons’ but Pecause abhorred not
business of his It has What D Amato just, orevenpri-
office in an im- Pu]-ring]y ca|]s“so many marily, because
properandinap- . . _ itconnotestotali-
propriate man- conn0t5¥t'?ns',’Me?nl!Ig' tarian convid
ncr."D'Amato's , Mussolini. More picking rions. but be-
reigpnsgoisthg, on Italy. IC)a’1l:6 ithas what
w a u - ma 0 purr-
ing your ingly calls “so
brother's many connota-
keeper? A guy . _ _ t_ions.”Meaning: ‘
can’t let his brother (who has been Mussolim. More picking on Italy. 0.
indicted on fraud charges) use the of- This column is intended as an Octo-

free to do a little lobbying for a defense
contractor? The contractor was from
I.ong Island, for Pete's sake.

The Senate seat D'Amato occupies
was previouslyoccupied by the likes of

ber pleasant surprise for non-New

Yorkers. You thought politics where

you live is as squalid as politics can be.

You were wrong.

@1992, Washington Post Writers Group

0

Why Clinton coasts through campaign

24450

WASHINGTON -— John F. Kennedy was hand-
some and confident on TV. Richard Nixon was ill-
looking and nervous. The 1960 election went to
Kennedy.

That's the way it goes in
a close election. A Vice

economy grew at 3 percent a year and created 10
million new jobs. Under George Bush, the annual
growth rate has been halfthat of Carter's. The result:
There are fewer pri-
vate-sector jobs now
than the afternoon

President makes a bad ap-
pearance on TV one evening
and has to wait eight years
for the top job. A President

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

Bush was inaugurated.

Translated to
kitchen-table econom-
ics: Parents who sent

goes to bed after saying
something stupid about
Eastern Europe. Gerald
Ford wakes up the next morning a Palm Springs
retiree.

But 1992 is different. It’s an election year when
nothing the candidates do or say counts for much.
Just ask yourself: Is there some thought George Bush
could impart before Nov. 3 thatmighttum your vote?
Is there something about Bill Clinton's personal life
that would lure or deflect your loyalties? Probably
not.

The entire year has been like this. An attractive
woman calls a New York press conference to say
she's had a 12-year tryst with the Arkansas front-
ninner. The country enjoys the soap opera, then turns
the channel. The polls do their windsong, then return
to normal, just as they do when the Clinton “draft"
story makes its periodic zip across the newswires. I

So what is this election about? Why is Bill Clinton
as incapable of losing our support as George Bush
seems in winning it? Whydo 80million people watch
the TV debates, yet come away stuck in the same
positions they started with? Why is an electorate
known for having second thoughts in the weeks
before balloting proving itself so stubbom?

Here are five reasons, in order of importance:

1. The Economy. Under J immy Carter, the

kids to college find
them homeagain, with-
out jobs, much less ca-
reers.

Both spouses work but find themselves living no
better than before. A successful business is no longer
one that makes a “killing”; it's one that survives
being killed itself.

2. The Cold

campaign backing the Democratic presidential can-
didate because of homefront concerns like education,
health, workplace policy, and, in many cases, abor
tion. By Election Day, that “gender gap” has closed?

This year, both genders are being driven by do-
mestic issues: job security, health insurance, guaran-
teed home medical leave. Thanks to the gong show
the Senate Judiciary Committee made of the Clarence '
Thomas-Anita Hill hearings, both genders are sup-
porting women for high office. .

If the “gender gap” disappears in 1992, it will be
because men have decided to vote with their wives -
not the other way around.

4. Anti-incumbency. This cuts much deeper than
the House bank scandal or the call for term limits.
Resentment of political big shots has been bubbling
for years. And there is no more high-profile incum-

bency than the’

man living all

War.Eversince the
'40s, we Ameri-
cans have picked
one kind of Presi-
dent — some guy
who was in uni-

This year, both genders are being driven by
domestic issues: job security, health insur- 5-
ance, guaranteed home medical leave.
Thanks to the gong show the Senate Judi-

l600 Pennsylva-
nia Ave. ,

Cycles.
Historian Arthur
Schlesinger ar-

Americans can
suddenly afford the luxury of picking a national
leader oriented to challenges at home. It can afford to
retire a President whose best credentials for the office
now seem decrepit.

3. Women. Traditionally, women voters start the

{‘§,‘;‘f‘I‘_”i“3 w°"d ciary Committee made of the Clarence Tho- figgficanswffnf
That epoch is mas-Anita Hill hearings, both genders are laid-backleaders
over. The Soviet ° ° like Calvin
Zmgig $8 13:]; t_ supporting women for high office. go 0 li d ghe ’
re , e 0 at w 1 g 1
_ history. Eisenhower and!

George Bush.
Other times they want to see an activist calling the
shots.
If there is something the President could say to
counter these five historic forces, he has yet to say it.
© 1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

 

gues there are’

  

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

“Let he whose opinion is suppressed
write on the walls of the loo.”

So said a wise man who was, no
doubt, brain damaged from long-terrn
oxygen deprivation. But are his words
Far from the truth?

The Washington and Lee adniinis-
tration would like you to believe that
W&L is somewhat immune to bath-
room graffiti. Tliat’s why they send
some poor soul around every few
months to paint over it. Still, it's kind
t!“ tough to paint over something that is
carved deeply into a stall door, so quite
a bit of it is immortalized in the

, university’s bathrooms.

Our graffiti at W&L reﬂects the
opinions of students, as crass as they
may be. Graffiti reﬂects positions on
lllsues (“Coed Sucks” - duPont first
iﬂoor), and affirms roles in society (“I
am the Snapper” - Robinson first ﬂoor).
lnmy extensive search throughoutcam-
pus for cool graffiti, I have even come
across graffiti with deep philosophical
implications (“Marshall Boswell is
?ahweh- pray to him, 0 English ma-
jors” - Payne second ﬂoor).

What prompts a man to become so
overly philosophical while engaging
in the commonplace activity of dispos-
ing of bodily wastes? Is it a deep-
seated need to express oneself or a
siriple lack of something better to do
while taking a dump? The motivations
behind these washroom pieces of art
are many.

For instance, what would prompt a
student to write “War is Peace. Free-

' dom is Slavery. Ignorance is Strength”

OI the stall in the Payne Hall bath-

The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

room? At first thought, one might
suppose that a post-Wednesday night

low me to explain.
The following pieces of literature

OPINION

Bathroom graffiti flushes suppression

Iequil%;_‘l1II:Ill1g0Va¢3!ll‘ailS resptgnsible. Hot»; have appearedinstalls throughout cam-
ever, er ysis rings up e pus:
possibility of this student being legiti- “Larry Skipper the road tripper”
mately psychotic and roaming campus “I’m just wild about Larry”
with an AK-47. Scary, isn't it? “Skipper the Tripper”

Some people are actually very para- “I Love Larry Skipper”
noid with re- Who is
gardtothepos- this mysterious
swim’ °f I wish I knew whether Mr‘ Skipp°”’"d
someone out _ _ _ why has‘ he be-
there being graffiti IS as prevalent In come such a cel-
crazier than womenas bathrooms as in ebratedbathroom
tlieyare.These , personality?
fearsaremani- men s rooms. However, Spos theorizes
fested through nothing éou]d drag Spos tliatthisisascare
the writings of . tactic, employed
graffiti cen- ""0 a women ,3 room by the same
sors. Actually. , short of a John Deere trac- people who gave
”'°‘° °°“‘°" tor. The reason for this is "5 .F"‘“°'“‘‘V Rf‘
nevercompose , naissance, 0
pieces of their whatever lurks in a keep students
own, but in- 9 ' - from road-trip-
steadgetoffon women S room requlrfs ping to girls’
altering the that women go there 1n schools, lest they

' ' f th- be th b-
,‘.,'f;‘,‘,f'gs,s,i‘:,{’,.,.i, packs of two or more to jeffme ° suof
own individual ' campuswideridi-
views. In the face It’ cule. You heard
case of the it here first.
“War is peace...” quote, a censor had The administration and faculty have
written “What the f—k is this gar- reacted strangely to bathroom graffiti.

bage?" with an arrow pointing to the
aforementioned. (Please understand
that the swear word above was written
without the silly dashes, but this being
a “family newspaper," Ihave no alter-
native but to clean it up a bit.)
Perhaps there is considerably more
to the W&L graffiti artist than an un-
canny ability to completely gross out
future visitors to the can. Spos has
recently noted what appears to be a
campuswide graffiti conspiracy. Al-

LETTERS

Ever notice how nicely the C-School
bathrooms are kept? In constructing
the C-School bathroom stalls out of
faux marble, the stalls have been effec-
tively graffiti-proofed.

Ever try to write on one of these
stalls? It’slike tryingtowrite on Steven
Seagal’s hair. The slick surface causes
the pen to skid around quite a bit and
you can’t get anything done. (Note-—
Spos is just kidding. Ifhe ever tried to
write on Seagal 's hair, he would end up

with several broken limbs and a caved-
iri chest cavity.) '
Anyway, there has to be a reason
why the C-School bathrooms have been
so effectively graffiti-proofed.
Methinks that professors from the poli-
tics department got tired of seeing their
names on the walls in bad context, so
they sent 10 zillion little memos and
Post-It notes to President Wilson ask-
ing foran anti-graffiti subcommittee to

‘ be established. Again, you heard it

here first.

I wish I knew whether graffiti is as
prevalent in women’s bathrooms as in
men's rooms. However, nothing could
drag Spos into a women’s room short
of a John Deere tractor. The reason for
this iswhatever lurks in a women’s
room requires that women go there in
packs of two or more to face it. (“Ex-
cuse me, Betty. Could you go to the
restroom with me?”) I don’t care to
guess as to what is in there, but it
probably would send Godzilla running
for his life.

What are Spos’ personal favorites
you ask? Well, my favorite on-campus
specimen appears in the bathroom on
the first ﬂoor of Parmly Hall. It simply
reads “Delt Lives.” My favorite non-
campus graffiti appears on the bottom
of a bathroom stall in a truck stop
somewhere inNew Jersey. Right above
the space between the stall and the
ﬂoor, where you can see the feet of the
guy squatting next to you, someone
etched the words “Beware of Gay
Limbo Dancers.” Spos laughed so
hard, he nearly rocked himself off of
the can. If the toilet-paper holder not
been in a convenient spot so as to serve
as a handle, Spos rriight have fallen off
and created an embarrasing situation.
Such is the power of the written word.

' Humor coIumnist’s superhero offends readers

To the Editor:

I am an avid reader of your newspa-
per. One of the aspects I admire most
about your paper is the Phi’s boldness.
Iiﬁseems as though you're not afraid to
say anything. I love the “Talkback”
section, for instance. However, this
past issue, I believe, you really went

vice. Next time you decide to write a
creative writing piece, stay away from
manes like “Richard Head, Ben Dover,
Phil McCrevice, and A. Nel Sphinc-
ter.” And write about something that
everyone can appreciate. Do you really
think the females on this campus en-
joyed that article?

too far. The “Erection Man" pI'tI0l'e§§‘iu_pI9 ¢9l!j7lll$,i9§o; I woiil<1iia§t.1iké to

was not only way out of line, butalso,

. . l

truly lacking in tasteful; originaf hu-"’

rmr. As a male, I know how guys talk I

around other guys, and I have no prob-
lem with it.

However, material like this has no
business being in a university newspa-
per. It really brings down the character
of the publication. Personally, I would
bc ashamed to show this newspaper to
my parents, who brought me up in the
atmosphere of astrong Christian house-
hold. I think they would be appalled. I
was disgusted myself. I mean, who
wants to read about an eight-foot penis
ejaculating all over a criminal? That's
rgtlly disgusting! Sure, we all have our
sexual fantasies, but come on! An eight-
foot penis? Get real, Chris, it’s just not
going to happen!

Not only was the article gross; it
was also completely pointless and bor-
ing. If you get your jollies writing
a utmasturbatinginapublicrestroom
with the latest porn issue, then please
keep your thoughts to yourself. I don't
want to hear about it. The article just
simply lacked real humor and creativ-
ity. Let me give the author some ad-

I

I

=s;.*ti:iifttitrti:.‘::'.i?.$.i.t‘i§‘:f.a:t.'E

thathe should apply for a job at Pent-
house magazine. And be honest, Chris.
Did you really go over the material of
the “Erection Man” article with your
family at the dinner table? I think not.
In any case, I hope not to discover any
more articles of this type bastardizing
our fine W&L publication. Thanks.

Most Sincerely,
Craig Sears, ‘96

To tlieEditor:

The article in last week's Ring—tum
Phi, “Erection Man Battles Diabolical
Villains,” was the inevitable result of
pen and paper combined with an infan-
tile sense of humor. _

Though I am unsure of the purpose
behind this “opinion,” I assume that
the author's oiigirial intent was to
amuse. Neither the concept nor the
finished product contained amodicum

Interviews and Photos

A By Jameson Leonardi

  What are your plans for Parents Weekend?

of humor, and served only to insult the
intelligence of the entire W&L student
body.
I also question the judgment of the
editors who chose to publish this ar-
ticle. The staff claims that the paper
“observes current court definitions
of_..,obscenity,?f If this article is any
indication, 11.19 °,b$¢TVat.ion.is=cirrsory-

aI-h¢§t—- ln R<>.ih.it.l!ni¢edSta1a: .354.
U.Se 476 ((1957-) the "Supreme Court‘

found material to be obscene when,
“applying contemporary community
standards, the dominant theme of the
material taken as a whole appeals to the
prurient interest.”

The Supreme Court laterexpounded
on this test in Jacobellir vs. Ohio , 378
U.S. 184 (1964). “A work cannot be
proscribed imless it is ‘utterly without
redeeming social importance,’ and
hence material that deals with sex in a

manner that advocates ideas, or that
has literary or scientific or artistic value
or any other form of social importance,
may not be held obscene and denied
constitutional protection.”

I fail to see any social importance
which this article may contain. No lit-
era;-y, gcientific or artistic value may
be derivedrfrom ;its '~I7hetartiele-isteven~
patemljrdewoidtof liirrnor so ariargu—
ment that it has-ente'rtai"n'rnent value is
moot. I

Mr. Citron’s article is by far the
most tasteless and unnecessary work
which Ihave ever read in the Ring -tum
Phi. I only hope that the newspaper
staff recognizes this incident for the
mistake that it was and in the future
will refrain from printing similar child-
ish vulgarities.

M. Beckwith Archer ‘90, ‘93L

  
 

  

TALKBACK

 

Ghad Dobbins, ’96, Louisville, Ky.
-— “To show my father how much
W&L has changed since he was here

i 20 years ago.”

Marty Tannen, ’96, South Orange,
NJ. -— “I'm looking forward to party-
ing with Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
and my padre.”

Hillary, ’96, and Heather Rhodes, ’93, Ithaca, N.Y. —— “Our parents ditched Eric Tracy. ’95. Midlothian. Va. —- Lissa Cockrel. ’96. Evergreen. Colo.

us so we're going to sit in our rooms and cry.”

Financial Aid

Students needing financial as-
sistance for Spring Term Abroad
Programs should contact the Finan-
cial Aid Office immediately. For
those students who have not sub-
mitted a Financial Aid Form for
1992-93, the priority deadline for
submission for spring term assis-
tance is Nov. 2.

Travel Info

Students, faculty and staff who
are plarming trips abroad may want
to check the State Department Travel
Inforrriation Notebook available in
the University Registrar’s office in
Reid Hall. Information is available
for more than 40 countries and in-
cludes the current federal recom-
mendations for travel to an area,
phone numbers and/or addresses of
embassies or consulates, and other
essentials. .

Register

Also, the new Register of Stu-
dents, Faculty and Staff is in. One
copy per student is available in the
Registrar’s office.

Health Ed

There will be aHealth Education
Committee meeting tonight at 6:30
p.m. in room 109 in the University
Center.

Book Sale

The Library Book sale, which
started today, will rim to Wednes-
day, Oct. 28. The sale will be in the
Library lobby.

BLSA

The Black Law Students’ Asso-
ciation would like to welcome all
minority students to the Washing-
ton and Lee and Lexington commu-
nities. A reception in their honor
will beheld tonight from 7-9p.m. in
the Fairfax Lounge in the Univer-
sity Center. Also, the BLSA would
like to invite the Washington and
Lee and Lexington/Buena Vista
communities to hear the Honorable

C of the Law School (Lewis Hall).
A reception will follow and all are
encouraged to attend.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of “Slacke” (USA,
1991), directed by Richard
Linklater. Showings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Oct. 23 and Satur-
day, Oct. 24 in the Troubadour Cin-
ema, at the comer of Main andHeriry
streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission.

Needed. Men and women inter-
ested in organizing a VMI-W&L
student Organization. Call Jason at
464-6259.

Judge Shackleford speak on Tues- _
day, Nov. 10 at6 p.rn. inclassroom 

General Notes are compiled by Matt Hur.

PAGE 3

 

Haunted House

Lambda Chi Alpha will hold a
Haunted House onHalloween night,
Saturday, Oct. 31, from 7-9 pm. in
conjunction with the Lexington
Police Deptartrnent Admission for
children 12 and under is 50 cents
with proceeds to be donated to the
United Way. The Lambda Chi
House is located at 225 E. Nelson
.St. Questions? Call 463-2600.

CD&P

The School for Field Studies will
present a program about their op-
portunities for environmental field
study experiences. It will be held on
Monday, Oct. 26 at 4 p.m. in room
109 of the University Center. Also,
an Insurance Opportunities Semi-
nar will be held on Tuesday, Oct. 27
at 4 p.m. in room 109 in the Univer-
sity Center. Anyone who is inter-
viewing with Independent Educa-
tional Services should attend the
information session scheduled for
Thursday, Oct. 29 at 7 p.m. in room
114 of the University Center. For-
eign Broadcast Information Service
is holding an Information Session at
4 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 2 in room
114 of the University Center.

FOC

Freshman Orientation Commit-
tee will be holding interviews Oct.
27-29 for new members. Current
members do not need to re-apply.
Applications and interview times
are available outside of Carol
Calkins’ office. Questions? Call
Carlin Jones at 464-3758.

WLUR

WLUR will present an album
feature every Thursday at 5 pm.
Listen to hear new alburris from the
hottest rock artists. Signs will be
posted each week indicating what
band is being highlighted.

Women’s Forum

At the next meeting of Women’s
Forum Jan Kaufman will give the
first of a two part lecture entitled
‘ ‘Frisky Business", a  discus-
sion about sex in the 90's.The meet-
ing will be Sunday, Oct. 25 at 7 p.m.
in the Women’s Center. Everyone
is welcome.

College Dems

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats this Sunday,
Oct. 25 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center Game Room. For more in-
forrriation call 463-8984.

CD&P

The deadline for submitting re-
sumes for the Selective Liberal Arts
Consortium Job Fairs in New York
City, Chicago, Washington, D.C.,
Philadelphia and San Francisco is
Friday, Oct. 23 by4p.m. ‘ ‘Ourtime
is your time" every Friday from 1-
4 p.m. Drop by with any career-
related questions or concerns.

“I‘m going to get my parents as drunk
as possible so they will give me more
money.”

   

—— “I’m going to eat real food."

 

  
    
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
     
   
   
  

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992 .

\v'

NEWS

Freshmen
compete
for offices

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Contributing Writer

City mayor rejects
idea to work off tax .

car tax to students is unfair. ‘
“It’s taxation without representation,” Kull
said.
. ‘ _ ‘ Kull said no matter what the city says, there is
Washington and Lee and the city of Lexington a difference between students and Lexington citi-
butted heads over the car taxlast week. _ zens. He said students are temporary resident of
Executive Committee Junior EC Rep...limmy Lexington, and the car tax pays for goods and
Kull met with Mayor E. “Buddy" Demck Oct. services that will last much longer than the aver-
13 ‘to discuss the option of students paying off age W&L students gray in Lexington ‘
their car taxes through community service. Kull said althoughpaying off the cartaxthrough
“The feeling 180tfr0m [Derrick] 18 [the pro- community service probably won’t be feasible
and 43 votes respiectively out of 338 ¥)0S?l11WaSbI;’t going ﬂanyt;v)lgire,f’ ’ Kull saidi. “['I'he_ he has not given up on the issue.
votes cast in Mon ay’s primary. ' _ . _ aw as en on e s orever an we’ve “We’re going to work within the limits 05
In the EC primary, Graham Frey Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi beegeﬁghﬁng fgﬁhfom. years_.. a] law and use temporary residence to our adv P
received 40 votes, Lisa Smith got 34, rric sai e community service propos tage,” Kull said.
Frank Sparrow, 32, W. Jarratt Bell, 22, we are the World did not seem feasible to him. He said he ques- City Treasure Pat Delaney said the city has is

Jennifer Galardi, 15, Rich Essex, 15, _ _ _ _ _ _ tioned who would assign, organize and keep track much trouble collecting the tax from city resi-
Anthony Raﬂa, 15, Amy Carrington, students m Evans D'"'"9 Ha" leer“ the harsh Vealmes °f me as 93" °f WW“ of the amountof community serviceneededtopay dents as it does students. "

13, Lissa Cockrei, 13, Gray Hancock, Hunger Week. To mirror the world distribution of wealth, four percent of partici- off a car tax, Derrick said are proposal wouid be “No one wants to pay a tax,» Delaney said_
12, and Rich Talmadge, 4. Twelve pants had a candlelight steak dinner, 36 percent ate beans and rice with uten- unfair to the people who do community service Penalties and interest are added on to the¢:;3r 7
people did not vote. I siis and so percent are rice on the ﬂoor with their hands_ without compensation and to the average Lexing- tax bill if the bill is not paid by its due date,

Run-off candidate for president ton citizen. Delaney said. She said if the bill is still not paid,
Matthew Mazzucchi got 84 votes and

Dax Mahoney got 74 votes Monday. _I O n O  p  g  m  t U  i n d O U  clas;I(l:i:i'l'xeft(£):liftl:'ef:l()1i('iit t.si:i%fme :e\l1i’i;]f(::ﬁl"tf'i')1l(’);l;:ey:naer§ts:ll/’ltlloll)1;.Clltgiﬁ/Iéiléiftice that

Presidential candidates Mason New Derrick said the Lexington City Council looked Delaney said the city does have to issue War?

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The freshman class voted for Execu-
tive Committee representative, class
president and vice president in a nm-off
election today.

Polls were still open at press time.

Freshman EC Rep. candidates Peter
Agelesto and Todd Bryan received 68

 

got 72 votes, S.R. Evans,57 votes, Curt F SCHOLARS 1 program were asked for input in the review into the cost of living in Lexington in 1988 and rants every year, and if the case is taken to court,

Futch, 31, and Jeanne Dillon, 18, in the mm s P399 process, but not current students. discovered the property rates, real-estate rates and the city usually wins. 8

primary. Two people did not vote. that it can't be fixed,” Prather said. “People in the midst of a situation tend not to utility rates were extremely high. He said the “If we do get a judgment, that could hurt
In the vice presidential race, run-off Prather said the current scholars were not told be the most objective,” Evans said. council had to choose between raising taxes or someone’s credit rating,” Delaney said.

candidates Preston Miller got 81 votes that the program might be eliminated. He said the Evans said he would ideally like to see a new collecting more of the taxes already owed to the Delaney said if someone believes their bill is
and Madeline White got 63 Monday. scholars wrote a letter protesting the action to the program created with some of the facets of the city. Aggressively pursuing the taxes owed to the wrong or they don’t owe any money at all, they
Primary vice presidential candidate faculty Courses and Degrees Committee, which Scholars in it, but said the fate of the scholars city was the best choice. should call the Commissioner of Revenue's of-
Tyson Hilton received 53 votes, Cary will make a recommendation about the program must be decided first. “We were running the risk of running every- ﬁce. She said a telephone call could save a hassle
Hansel got 33, Larry Codraro, 29, at the next faculty meeting. Prather said the program is too good to die. one out of town except the students,” Derrick for the city and the person being billed. g
Gretchen Hall, 28, Susan Foote, 19, “We don’t like the idea of having the program “lt’s about students, it’s about education and Said. Derrick denied that the car tax is meant to take '
Cliff V.P. Holekamp, l4, and Charlie yanked out from under our feet,” Prather said. it’s about taking things into your own Kull said he applauds the city’s efforts to keep advantage of students.
Santo, 14. Four people did not vote. Evans said all graduates of the nine-year old hands,”Prather said. the tax rate down, but he still thinks applying the ‘ ‘It’s a tax on cars, not on students.”

      
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
 
     

 
   

. A '
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? STUDENT SERVlCES.BOX 1792li.PLAllTATI0ll.FL 33318 ' ooocampus nepswantedooo
- : I HEATWAVE VACATIONS
Now you can have two of the most recognized and ' SPRING BREAK 1993
accepted credit cards in the worici...visao and MastcrCarid® I i  lW3"lW5A°/MASTERCARD?’ C"°d“ I The bestrates & thebisses!
credit aids.-“In your name-" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed nnd $5 which is 100% refundable if not I commissions. For more Information.
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'l1JRNED DOWN BEFORE! . approved ,mmed,a,e,y_ . can 3o(t395-wAvE
VISAS’ and MastcrCard® the credit cards you I I
deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS-—DEPARTMENT | NAN! ' _ _

5 STORES-—1‘UlTlON-—ENTERTAlNMENT— I E . C|L|d|Otfon|cs .
E‘ EMERGENCY (‘J\SH—TICKETS-—RES'I‘AURANI‘S—- ' ADDRESS . AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO R

; HOT ELS—MOTELS-GAS-—CAR RENTALS— ‘ ‘
g REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD voun CREDIT RATING! I CITY _..__________ STATE _ ZIP I 2523; ifgzﬁ ,
if I I

~ gt _ _s TOSHIBA MARANTZ ,
E gomm: ‘Q " d : PHONE j} s s : KEF CW0 r
‘I ' ']‘[  BOSTON DEFI

3 “.51?-“‘,$u¢ "3 ere H-it d - , . SIGNA . KLIPSCH BAZggl(“AE

; '55! “go cg, 595"" Y €D0$It- NOTE Ma.-ttcrcud is: registered tndetrnrk dﬂaterchrd lntemauornl Inc. ,,
: wall“ 1 0* - val I cad I Visa is a registered tnderrlrk omsii USA. Inc an! VISA imm-uonai I ; :{’JEYlé|'§E,;RR°LCl’F;qPFl’iLOg‘RAM

: 9. App") abso may guamm 50 I 5‘-""‘°"‘ *”°"'“°" 100% augngﬂtﬁﬁpg I - CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT

I MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON ‘TODAY | | ' 'N'5T°'*E 55*‘/‘C5 CENTER

: A Q——u—:—--3-n—uuQ¢uccD¢u.u— . :wE-VERVICEMOSTBRANDS ,

E N  W} : T  _ . I g _, . p l_ _ _»_ _ _ _ __ _ '1’: H NIASTEIRCARD/VISA/DISCOVER .

; l.\ OLR LABORATORIES Y0i’i.L . L 11113 I '|-'E I  ii

I 27;) 0:39 Tiigagiiﬂiiod Mira"

I, F - . . iriawrsnraraizrcﬁrvsenrrm ' °" °‘'‘° ‘’ +
-, l\D GIRAFFES, DOLPHINS, [,4 —— -—~—..—.—-~  L...._____.....l ‘
5. . - " 4 , ea-+1 F N V

5‘, , , . .2 2.‘  

 A Coiui. REEF. A RAINFOREST. .. .m ., VV&L Art m  
:3 With SFS you can study critical environmental ' A - _ g . I V
5 issues worldwide i’nc/udirig: -A ' ’ ' ' ‘ 1870 Wa:1}é§l§ti9.rﬁ‘%°1}fgﬁD1p1°ma

g 0 Wildlife Management in Kenya Scott No. 932 '
3‘? ° Marine Ecology in the Caribbean This stamp, issued in 1949, makes a great momento of Ma Lee SignatureIs{.E Lee Jr 4
B. 0 Rainforest Dynamics in Australia Washington and Lee. Or a nice touch used (with 26¢ Fiégugh Lee John’ Letéheli 4
T 0 Marine Mammais in Baja Mexico ggdiﬁional postage) 01:1 gfraduation annouriicefrnfents. M.Miley Edward Valentine ll

e ave a arge stoc o mint stamps an o irst '
day covers which were cancelled in Lexington on » W&L Copperplate. hand-colored
College Financial the day of issue’ W&LS:3l1  lifkrdlteiqueriilition art
. , ii s n son
Credit Aid 1 Singles 25¢ Mary an George }Wash1ngton pieces 4
For more information on Semester & Summer field Plate Blocks (4) $125 ' “ A Di ‘
research courses, come to: F9“ Panes (50) $1050 ﬂ . . 7
First Day Covers $1.00 to $3.25
University Center, Room 109 _ ‘
Monday, October 26 at 4 p,m_    ﬁeiﬁtgtzgsrsxgtzizggeet _
or write.‘ SFS. Box .4, /6 Broadway, Beverly, 1‘/I/i 0/915. (508) 927-7777   &   B    Saturday  ‘V
THE     31 South Main Street, Lexington 463-3355 . 10 ,,_m_ _ 5.30 p_m_ *
T H E W O R L D l S i C

Y 0 U R C 10 to 5, Monday thru Saturday E ’ I _ J1 p‘
, VARNER & POL_E_ F It D . W ’ § .
.  M r 3, ,A_ I. For your extra pieces oiﬂfriiruriituz as E  M E  E  g

’ K 115 s. Main St., Lexington 463-27.42 T  F 
<¢‘Read the Phi- OUTLETS  

  *
A E , ms AR, AN .
Artists in Cahoots 50% TO 30% DISCOUNT EVERYDAY
-GUARANTEED!
we RECEIVE MERCHANDISE FROM i

AMERICA'S MOST FAMOUS MAIL ORDER -
HOUSES. NEW SHIPMENTS EVERY WEEK!

Cooperative Gallery of Local Artists and Crafts People

Handcrafted silver and porcelain - . ,
jewlry, pone”. silk gem“ Downtown Lexin ton (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)

‘Scu1pmre_ woodwork, glass, paim_  On. ' Sal.  ‘ ‘
ings and photographs of local K  - J .
landscapes. Lexington landmarks
and Virginia ﬂowers.

. . .— - .--.~ ~-«— - — c_c.w - - - u u q - - u w u u w on o ti rs ‘,0.~t:t~,\v 9. ‘Innu\\n«Irv5w\v\sruwu,\,uv\;\(¢b.1tIiO.‘lr£\'h.II.¥llV.\\\\331.‘!

Wanted: A   «

Large Richmond travel agency looking for respon- '
sible, fun—loving student to set up holiday cruise . ‘

 Corner otwashlngton and Main Streets groups for C1a55mateS~ FREE TRIPS AND ’
' Lexington TRAVEL ALLOWANCES. Training and materi- ~

; 121 West Nelson Street/464-3500 oiilgii ggda .iliina'stE-¢;r%'a1i*ii “ii§3é.§::ii' (£1313: R0‘ 0 :

 

A

A

    

I

i The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

NEWS

Get a taste of the real Hill

By Law WHITE
Phi Contributing Writer

‘. Whilemanystudentsusespringterrn
to cram in an extra P.E. or take a
science that the previous semester’s
schedule just wouldn’t accommodate,
a select few will put their politics to the

Senior Todd Ammermann said he
interned through the program as a
sophomore with Sen. Richard Lugar
(R-Ind).

“They work like maniacs,”
Ammerman said, referring to Lugar’s
schedule. Connelly said students who
participate in the program lose any

preconceived notions or stereotypes
about Congress and the political sys-
tem.

‘Connelly said he enjoys having stu-
dents watch Congress in action and
said the program gives students valu-
able work experience. Connelly said
students in the program also have re-
sponsibilities outside their
congressman’s office. He holds weekly
lectures and discussions with the stu-

test in Washington, D.C.
The Washington Term Program,
aded by Associate Professor of Poli-
cs William Connelly, is an intensive
six weeks of learning the ins and outs
of the American political machine.
Connelly said student interns usu-
ally spend the term in the office of a
senator or representative doing office
work, responding to mail or taking
tﬁtes at hearings.

dents. Also, students must keep a jour-
nal and complete a research paper by
the end of the term.

Despite the hard work and hectic
schedules, Connelly said students ap-
preciate the program.

“lt’s a wonderful opportunity for
participant observation,” Connelly
said. “The students will tell you the
work is well worth it.”

All majors are eligible to participate
in the program. But students must have
completed Politics 101, 102 and 103
before they can apply.

Students who have questions about
the program can contact senior Sean
Burger. An alumnus of the program,
Burger serves as the program’s student
advisor.

E-mail service delivers to students

stamp or atelephone, all you need is the

By KATIE YDEL .
PM surf Wm“  address of the person you are
_¢ g to.
All‘ Washington and Lee students Although W&L has had an E-mail

and faculty can now send messages to
htmdreds of locations around the world,
all at the touch of a button.

Electronic mail,orE—mail,accounts
were set up for each student before
shool started.

“It’s an incredibly important new
way to be connected,” said Hugh
Blaclrmer, an associate professor at the
University Library.

E-mail makes it possible to send a
message to anyone at this school, or the

' or 400 other schools that connect
to W&L’s system. You don't need a

WELCOME PARENTS

system for the past three years, the new
system is easier to learn and use, said
Ruth Floyd, head of academic comput-
ing. Floyd said the computer depart-
ment has not been aggressive about
getting people to use the system. She
said setting up accounts for each stu-
dent will make it more popular.

‘ ‘We simply wanted to facilitate its
use,” Floyd said.

The school pays an annual fee for
the E-mail student tot he Virginia Edu-
cation and Research Network. Floyd
said the fee varies every year depend-

         

«'7: "JL”'_'"'_'"  _ v
 illliljﬂllii
h - Place Your Orders Now

For Our Exclusive Gold-Plated

W&L Colonnade
Christmas Ornament

       

I

FF  , ‘
BORN guano, INC.

. 16 WEST -WASHINGTON STREET
. LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450
? (703)463—l832

ing on the numbers and the cost of
running the system. Last year the fee
was about $5,000. Because there is no
per use charge, the more the system is
used, the more cost effective it be-
comes.

Senior Jennifer McCann, a com-
puter science major and employee of
the computer center, corresponds regu-
larly with friends at other schools. She
handed out the E-mail addresses and
information during matriculation this
fall and found that students did seem
receptive to the idea of using the ser-
vice. She thinks it will help that the
newer system is easier to use.

‘ ‘More people are inclined to use it
or at least see what it is, ’ ’ McCarm said.

A

 \

Percentage of students at W&L and statewide agreeing that:

Most men accused of rape are really Innocent.

It a man doesn't have sex with a woman who
his masculinity may be questioned.

-18‘,/D

 

 

7 

     

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

/ and Accessories

g 23 N. Main St. (703)463-5988

% Lexington, VA 24450
 %

Results provided by the Dean of Students Ofﬁce

 

Survey finds attitude differences

C] From SURVEY, page 1

percentage of W&L women who agreed
that there is too much pressure to have
sex was lower than the state average,
64.3 percent to 66 percent.
Schroer-Lamont said the heightened
awareness of W&L women about rape
issues stems from the a signiﬁcant per-
centage of women know someone who
has been raped or sexually assaulted.
“A lot of women here know victims
who never came forward,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “They know there are

 .

 
    

 

Having the goblins and goulies over?
Let us custom design Halloween Invitations!
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

T

PHONE: 463 - 1712

125 w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE posr OFEITCTE

FAX #: .463 -6918 Q

more situations occurring than [the
public] is aware of .’-’

Shannon Comer, ’93, wrote a re-
port on the survey results for a sociol-
ogy class. She said she was not sur-
prised by results showing W&L men
to be less sensitive to rape issues than
other college men.

“W&Lmay notbequiteasevolved
[on rape issues] because its only been
co-ed for a few years,” Comer said.
“More diverse schools are more aware
of these issues.”

Schroer-Lamont said the survey

  
    
  

  

130 S. Main St.

 

GREEKS & CLUBS

RAISE A COOL
‘1000
IN JUST ONE WEEK!
PLUS ‘I000 FORTHE

MEMBER WHO CALLS!
No obligation. No cost.

You also get a FREE
HEADPHONE RADIO

just for calling
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65

Cannondale - - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

indicates more rape education is needed
for men at W&L.

Schroer-Lamont said a rape aware-
ness videotape produced last year by a
W&L senior is available to any student
group that requests it. She said most of
the freshman women’s halls have
viewed the tape, as has Kappa Alpha
Theta, Alpha Phi Omega, the Women's
Forum, the peer counselors and the
University Choir.

Comer said the survey results dem-
onstrate that W&L has retained the
attitudes of an all-male school.

  

     

463-7969

Advertise in the Phi.
Cali Benji at 463-8581

Fall Back
Sunday!

2
0
0
o
u
9
I
I
0
o
9
9
u

 

 

Welcome Parents

 -  Still The Leading
Men’s Clothing Store In exinton

..,

Erttttin

All Suits    

SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts

IZOD, WOOLRICH - Sweaters

Chamois Shirts

Long Sleeve Sports Shirts

Woolrich Outerwear

Leather Watchbands

Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s, Walkover
Herman Survivors

Corduroy Pants

Cashmere Blend Topcoats

Red Wing Boots

Wool Slacks

Duckhead Khaki’s

W&L Belts, Dog Collars, Visors and Ties
100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts
Xmas Stockings for Sale

OPEN THIS SUNDAY 10 a.m.

Alnttt - lﬂettnta

Phone (703) 463-5383

Since 1963
STUDENT

CHARGE ACCOUNTS MASTER CARD

O

The Rlng-tum Phl, October 22, 1992 '

FEATURES

Dlinwihminln hi

I’ I’

Stress claims another victim

ASK DR. WORTH
By Dr. James Worth

W&L can be a very intense place. Do you
have any suggestions or ideas about stress
management?

Stress management strategies tend to fall
in three separate categories: making the
stress less intense, making yourself stron-
ger, or getting the hell away from the stres-
sors.
The ﬁrst two, which can be done together, emphasize
staying engaged with the
stressors, but the third

an excellent social life, and still has time for involve-
ment with extra-curricular activities, you will invari-
ably ﬁnd an expert time manager.

Talk to him about how he manages his time.

Another thing I do in my own life which I advocate
to students is making the effort to write down a plan for
your week which includes speciﬁc times and activities.

You can purchase weekly organizers at a book store
or you can come to Mrs. Calkins’ ofﬁce in the Univer-
sity Center and she will give you one of my handy-
dandy time-management sheets.

It really does help.

Meditation, self -reflection and even prayer (for those
who pray) are ways to ground ourselves and face our day
from a centered, focused frame of mind.

Reducing the stress
at its source is the sec-

one takes you away from
them.

There are many ways
of making yourself stron-
ger, physically and emo-
tionally.

Don’t ever underesti-
mate the importance of
physical conditioning in
helping you cope with
psychological stress.

When Bobbie Fisher

Questions to Dr. Worth can be

submitted to Carol Calkins in the
University Center.

ond major approach.

If the stress comes
from poor communica-
tion, a lack of
assertiveness,orfeelings
which do not get ad-
equately expressed, you
can develop better inter-
personal coping skills.

This can be accom-
plished by reading, talk-
ing with others you trust

5:).
L

was the world chess

champion he always in-

cluded strenuous exercise as part of his preparation for
a big chess match.

Eating three wholesome meals per day, getting
enough sleep (based on your own requirements, which
vary from one individual to another), and getting regu-
lar aerobic exercise will enable you to see better
times and do better things.

I personally advocate jogging and
usually run ﬁve miles in the early
morning. It has changed my life.

But the main thing is that you
have a routine (preferably five
times per week) in which you get
your heart rate above 130 for at
least 20 minutes.

When you get those endorphins
coursing through your body it pro-
duces a subtle but lovely high that is
all the more delicious because you
know it is natural and healthy.

Another important way to make your-
self more affective and thus better able to cope
with stress is through good time-management practices.

Whenever you meet a student who has good grades,

and learning from them
or a counselor.
Roommate problems, romance pains, family strains,
and all the other interpersonal stressors are made worse
by either holding your feelings in, exploding with anger
or doingthose little cutting things whic “get even” with
someone without really ﬁnding a solution.
Even academic stress can be reduced by
talking with the professor, who might have
some tips for you to increase your effec-
tiveness or, in some circumstances,
might be willing to negotiate a stick-
ing point with you.

When these two approaches fail
it is sometimes best to leave the
field.

That might mean ending a rela-

tionship, withdrawing from an ac-
tivity, dropping a course, or in an
extreme case even temporarily with-
drawing from school.
I am not saying you should duck your
responsibilities.

However, if you are being overwhelmed by
unrelenting stress, sometimes a retreat is the most re-

sponsible action available to you.

The College Democrats
Salute

the Parents

of the
Washington and Lee

Community

JOIN US
in
Electing a REAL

“Education President”
VOTE

Clintonl Gore
1992

For more information on how you can help
put People First,
CALL: (703) 463-8984

0

I

Buddha, harlequins lurk in duPont:

Eclectic art exhibition features faculty’s collections

By JOYCE BAUFISTA and CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Of The Ring-tum Phi Staff

A

sculpture, painting and

rt from far and near comprises an eclectic exhibi-
tion currently displayed at duPont Gallery.
“Faculty Choice” is a unique collection of

K

vital, the vigor and the youthful life force that the scene
 conveyed,” Youngblood said. ,
Another work byaW&L artistand on loan from Jennings

is Freedom Riders, an acrylic on canvas by Mark Faverrnan

in 1969.

Also in the collection

graphicartlentby Wash-
ington and Lee faculty
members.

“I wanted to show the
students that the profes-
sors that they admire and
respect have an in their
lives,” Professor of Art
HistoryParnelaSimpson
said. She organized and
curates the exhibition.

“I tried to get profes-
sors from each depart-
ment to lend art,” she
said.

Simpson said she
asked 30 faculty mem-
bers to select works of
artfrom their collections
and loan them for the

are ceramics created by
the wife of Professor of '
Psychology Leonard E.
Jarrard.

Associate Professor
of Classics Mafio
Pellicciaroloanedapor-
trait of himself painte
by a former teacher 0
his, Howard Simon.

Among the more ex
otic pieces of art are Twat
Harlequins by Gﬂld
Sevenni, an Italian fu-
turist, and on loan from

Jennings said Faverrnan is now the head of a higgly ‘
acclaimed design and graphic arts ﬁrm in Boston.

Professor of Politics '

Delos Hughes.

He purchased the I

Sevenni silk screen

exhibit.

She also asked the
faculty to write a brief
statement about the
piece, the medium, the
artist and what the work of art
means to them.

Statements accompany all the
works.

Among the works on exhibi-
tion are samplings of W&L tal-
ent.

“I was impressed by the num-
ber of faculty buying student
works,” Simpson said.

Both Professor of Journalism
John Jennings and Associate Pro-
fessor of German Robert
Youngblood have loaned pieces
created by W&L artists.

From Morning to Midnight,
an oil on canvas painted by Paul
Lee in 1991, was inspired by a
play of the same title that the artist
read in Youngblood’s German lit-
erature class in 1989.

“When he showed me this
painting, I was astounded not just
by Paul's bold use of colors, his
technical language and
exuberence, but also by the elan

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The’Fling-tum Phi

Platter, bowl, footed bowl and stoneware vase by Jan
Jarrad, wlfe of Professor of Psychology Leonard E.
Jarrad.

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

one of two Italian harlequin prints on
loan from Professor of Polltlcs Delos
Hughes.

prints at Oberlin Co1l9ge
as an undergraduate.
“They were my first
an purchase and an in- '
troduction to a subject
which I still study, the
connection between politics and ‘
artisiticexpression,”Hughes said. ,
Other works include two 17th-
century engravings, a Buddha
sculptureandaNavajo“Yei”Rug.
Closer to home are works by
American artists such as Armin

Landeck. -

Rooftops by Landeck, on loan
from Professor of English Severn
Duvall, is a reminder of “the roof

formations he saw, staring out of ,

a Warsaw apartment building to-

ward Piekna and Marzalkowska.” *

The show runs until Nov. 12. _

Gallery hours are 8 a.m. .5
p.m., Monday through Friday. .

This Saturday and Sunday the
gallery will be open 10 a.m. -2 ’

p.m. _
“It really IS an exhibition about

5

collecting. The statements have '

been very personal,” Simpgn
said. “That personal connection
is what students have found most

V

You ﬂlre C ordicdiy
I noited to it
Torents ‘Weekend

Reception

fridoy, Oetolier 23
4:30 - 6:30 p.1n.
in goines gotenouse

Sponsored Ey
The King-Tum Tﬁi
and the Society of

1’rofe55iono[jonrno[i.5t5

ﬂllfrnemﬁers of the ‘Wc’rL community and parents

are invited to attend.

rewarding.”
l

l

    

O

The Ring-tum Phl, October 22, 1992

 

 

FEATURES

 

 

 

 

Q
hypochon- 0 \\ . Q Mandy Irons, is the
  Moliere play opens tonight    w
daughter, his Angelique and C I d C d
wife and her lover. Clearite together. 0 O n n a e  O r
These characters “Toinette is
can all be found to- witty, spirited and
night in Moliere’s B)/_J°YCl3 BAU'"§TA she always knows ACROSS
“The Imaginary In- Phi Features Editor what she’s doing,” 1 Trodden way
valid,” the latest of- Irons said.“Though 15 l“ ""5 ‘flannel’ 0'
fering from W&L’s _ she is mean to the 13 §;"'/"‘3'r""
theater department. Due to the fall ab- played by freshman invalid, she likes him. She's only try- 15 Roofing tile
“Our production is a darker version sence of Associate Rob Neel, but is be- ing to save him from himself.” 16 George
ghan usual interpretations of the play,” Professor of Drama trothed to Thomas At first, Irons had trouble with the 17 Sgﬁggﬁginger
visiting actor Evan Bridenstine said. J .D. Martinez, Diafoirus, played by language of the French romantic com- 13 wise lawggve,
Ironically, in the first performance Birdenstine is also third-year law stu- edy. 19 Milan money
of the play, the sick playwright played teachingtwotheater dent James Scales. “The language wasn't like every- 32 gi"d‘(*:_)°" ‘°W°'
the invalid and died an hour after the classes. He gradu- “ T h e y day language," she said. “But once 24 waws ,em,.e
performance, said Bridenstine, who ated recently with [Angelique and rehearsal started it was hilarious.” 25 Arch
plays the invalid, Argan. an M.F.A from the Cleante] just basi- Some actors also said the costumes 33 gculptftrf
.» “The extra scenes reﬂect what was University of Vir- cally are ‘in love’ were another necessary nuisance. O‘,’(§"(’.3o,y°'
going on backstage during Moliere’s ginia. throughout the “The costumes were very constrict- 3 insert mark
last performance,” he said. “Evan is phe- ,whole play,” Dillon ing," Neal said. 34 Gratings
The three extra scenes chosen by nomerial,” sopho- said. 4 “I couldn't breathe, my corset was 32 :;2ff“:°
Director Al Gordon are based on the more Michael Neal Neel describes so tight,” Irons said. 37 symbol ova, 3
works of Moliére’sbiographer, Mikhail said. “He definitely ,,__u__W . N 1. mi his character as Overall the cast enjoyed the many vowel
Bulgakov. addedanentire new m ,f;''';;;;.':;’ g'z';f2f;2‘;7''_| ”_ “clever and quite the rehearsals. 33 ‘gfslgners _ A _
V “The scenes are very well docu- concept to the play. Kw" 2;-M OGMW--2 an charmer.” ‘‘I love the energy,” Neel said. 40 women ©‘iiiiial;i1i§’E°.s’1?5'$%s°"'°°5' '"°' 10/22/92
Qnented,” Bridenstine said. It will be sad to see "“°" "’ " °"°" However, he has Birdentstine said he enjoys work- container La ,
Bridenstine said Gordon originally him leave after this term.” harsher words for Scales’ character of ing with a small crew. 1; /Film“ '— 3‘ Week 5 Answers
asked him to direct the play, but he All the actors agree that working Thomas Diafoirus, “It creates more dynamic personal 44 Vgiﬁ, 6 Animal
could not because of time conﬂicts. with Birdenstine as the invalid is excit- “He is a total dillard and complete relationships,” he said. “We all ended 45 Feedbag tiller assemblage
ing. hom-dog,”Neel said.“He’s constantly up laughing a lot in the rehearsal pro- 46 Certain 7 Sermon
“He doesn't have the actor’s atti- stickinghistongueinher [Angelique’s] cess. I just hope it will be a piece that 47 Eggggfgge for g¥¥mLf°mma"d
tude,” senior Erin Walsh, who plays ear.” will transfer to the audience so they’ll animat food 10 _ at the wheel
Beline,said.“He’snotahaughty diva.” Toinette, played by sophomore laugh, too.” 50 Skirtllket 1; gasnlonable
“Argan is just a big baby,” _ _ 3.. , g ,, 9‘"“°" 5 °'°
Bridenstine saiq. "He’s afraid that ..-e  “3¥§’.'Z:..'I‘.."' l?‘é’:§é'l£Z%Z‘§.
something is going to happen to his H —~ ‘  54 Happening 23 Limbs _
body that he doesn't understand.” :2 ‘C';W°'*i°'d 3: gage‘ 3”"
Neal plays M’ Bmmefayr the 59 Sglgri: solution 27 Lift 9
invalid’s notary and the lover of his so “Coglto —- 2e Kilmer work
client’s wife, Beline. 5Um"_ 29 W°'”°5
“M. Bonnefay is devious and cun- 2; _'?:f,i“s';,°,eas, 3? §§$'sha"°d
ning,” Neal said. “He definitely throws 63 Regrets 32 Put forth ettort
himself into his work, if you know DOWN 3-; aarvkcolors
what Imean.” °“ 3
B_°ml_ef3}' is hiregd by A783“ to draw E giidifiyyears  :3?“ color 44 James Earl -— 50 Transmit
up his will, but gets involved in a secret 3 Song 41 Single: pref. 46 — macabre 51 Spiritual guide
kw? affair with Argmrs second wife’ S reﬁt‘: §°bust 43 yoaggrghensive  Iltfsziaiiinriifon  grgiferhiig mam
B51319‘ _ hand trip 49 French river 57 — Alamos
“She is very sweet and pleasant but
- also very manipulative,” Neal said.
‘ “She knows what she wants and will go _
by $;,;*,;°;"“‘; 85:5;-W5 dew, WLUR weekday . radio schedule
. 3'“ 1* Morning Mag (Rock) - Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.
tion of her character. J
.. - - . . azz - Monday, 9 a.m.-l la.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
She is like Glenn Close in Dan- AM 0 . .
- m - verture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.
gerous Liasons, she said. . .
. . Inspirational - Thursday, 9 a.rn.-11 a.m.', Monday, 2 p.m.—3p.m.
Belme and Bonnefay are trying to . . .
- . ,; Public Affairs -Monday through Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
have Argan sign away all his wealth to . C .
- - .  ~ ountry - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
herinsteadoftohisdaughterAngelique, .
. ; Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.—3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-1 1 :30 p.m.
_ _ played by freshman Jeanne Dillon. .~ \ I , .
Photo by Amy French. The Ring-tum Phi .. . Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.
u She [Angelique] has some strength phmo b pamck Hm, . _ _
. . . ,, Y Y Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3.30 p.m.-5.30 p.m.
but it is undermined b .
Jeanne Dmon prepams ‘O’ one - - y everyone’ Classical Showcase — Monday through Thursda 6 m -9 m
gun.-ggbacksgagescenesaddeu Dillon said. . _ . Toinette, the saucy mald (Mandy Irons), tricks Argan, the "ImagI- Third Em. _ Monda mm“ h Frida 12 a m _23;’m P‘ ' P’ '
by Dﬂgctof A] Gofdgm - Angelique is In love wlth Cleante, nary lnvalld" (EVBI1 Bridenstine.) y g y’ ' ' ' '

Corbin Suits/Sport Coats
Ruff Hewn - Men’s
Boston Trader
Sero/Gitman Shirts
B.D. Baggies
Jones

Ruff Hewn Ladies
Lanz "
Woolrich

J aysonYounger
Timberland

Serving Washington & Lee Since 1926

Thank You For Your Support

In appreciation - we are offering
ALL SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

20% Off

LADIES JACKETS
20% Off

.:. 
.. _. . .. l ._
...'.'.1‘.... 1!-vri. :1 . - :

Men’s Woolrich
Canvas Jackets

See
Our Ladies Window

‘‘

._ 7  ..  ;, ~:. . , _.  - .,‘. V 1':  _; 1.":: ".  —s .
 . A -__. .-..', ,_ _ -‘ _, o A _ , . . ,- ._ _. - - -  -. .- ‘ v t'_ I, ..
A. - r - -' ' e . . .. _ .. V - -

. . . . _ ,_ ..i..... . . . »

.~. ,..:. . .- . _. , - 4

5/C§
';

A Smash Hit! Great Denim Skirts

lThe College Town Shop

AMEX. - Master Charge — VISA

4:.
4”‘ :1’-

'  "--~
 C._,‘ ‘is.

Open Sunday — 10 to 3 111 West Nelson Street

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 1992

On The Merrill Lynch Fast Track

Interviewing ii; CHARLOTTFSVILLE “if? December 3 & 4

Resumes will be accepted through November 12th

Meet Kevin Rendino, Carolyn Jones and Patrice
Franco. They participated in the Merrill Lynch
Individual Investor Intern/MBA Program and
their program experience helped them ad-
vance quickly to new professional challenges.
Kevin, Carolyn and Patrice will continue to rely
on what they learned during the program to
help them succeed throughout their Merrill
Lynch careers.

The Intern Program is available to new
college graduates. The MBA Program is avail-
able to new MBAs. These programs can help
put you on the Merrill Lynch fast track. As a
program participant you are offered a challeng-
ing position under the guidance of a senior ,
manager. Program positions are available in
product development, marketing, operations
and finance.

Throughout the program you are exposed
to firm strategy through meetings with senior
management and you participate in task force
projects which help a variety of business units
to meet their strategic objectives. Formal
classes address career development issues
and help you enhance your leadership skills.
You are given responsibility and accountability

and your program experience will help posi-
tion you for fast-track success at Merrill Lynch.

Candidates for the Individual Investor
Intern/MBA Program have outstanding records
of achievement in their academics, extracur-
ricular activities and work experience. They
are interested in the challenge of the fast-paced
financial services industry and want to be rec-
ognized for their accomplishments.

If you have the talent, creativity, energy
and commitment to be a winner at Merrill
Lynch, the Individual Investor-Intern/MBA Pro-
gram is offering an unequaled opportunity to
excel. To find out more, write us:

Individual Investor Intem/MBA Program
Merrill Lynch

P.O. Box 9056

Princeton, NJ 08543-9056

fig Merrill Lynch

A tradition of trust.

Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer.
© 1992, Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc.

 

  

, me Fling-tum Mir, October 22, 1992

 

    

-   .>pIugE.;
FARM FRESH

CATFSH
ii.LETS

 
  
  
      
   
     

 

  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
    

 ' LIMIT 3 WITH
;: ADDITIONAL
 PURCHASE LB
IT: IIIIIIIIIIIIII O

   
 
 
   
     

   

  

FLORIDA
~ ORANGES

       
 

   
    
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
   

 

DIET COKE OR
COCA-COLA

87

REDUCED

6 PACK
20 oz. .R.

     
  
   

,
 Women s soccer

  

 

 

 

 

   
  
  

   
 

‘' STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER

COURTESY CARD.

   
 

 

narrows YOU to
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT oven I34
HARRIS rrrrrsn
Iocarrcisrs IN
eroaein, scum
CAROIJNA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
. COUPON AND SAVE.

   
  
         
       
    
 

   
  

 

    

IN THE DELI-BAKERY FRESHLY MADE - LB.

 

I I
AR NI ALAD
I Mag“ 0 s I
I COUPON I
I I
I Per F_cI II.,.PerVisIt I
I  I
21 TIIS $27’, PLU 2160

I I992.  I
. °eir.t~   g I

Qﬁ IIDUIISTOCIEI J

an: up -— u— : 1 1 -I -II 1 1

VALUABLE 24¢ COUPON
2.5 oz. PKG. - HAM, CHICKEN, runxsr on

  
   
  
  
 

I Mr SLICED BEEF I
I c6"u'i3~ I
I I
I ~;:.‘t.§;i:r.;w:.i.  I
I .:.."'t;m1;,.»‘;*:Pv%2..$(,q . I
lair?‘  I
21 ThruOcto 727',‘-ii " PlU2l64

I “’”- ,, _,  . MEAT I

:__________J

 

 

PAGE 9

edges Lynchburg

By J Usi1N IVICNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Two overtime victories halted the
women's soccer team’s seven-game
losing streak and secured a fourth seed
in next week's conference tournament.

Wednesday's 2-0 overtime victory
at Lynchburg College wrapped up a 4-
4 record in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and fourth place in the
standings. Before the game, head coach
I an Hathom spoke of the importance of
a victory.

“We need to win so that our destiny
is not in someone else’s hand," she
said.

A loss could have dropped the Gen-
erals to the fifth or sixth seed, depend-
ing upon this Saturday's Sweet Briar-
Lynchburg game. A Sweet Briar win
could have sent the Generals to Vir-
ginia Beach to take on a strong Vir-
ginia Wesleyan squad in the opening
round of the ODAC Tournament on
Wednesday.

Butapair of goals mid-way through
the first overtime earned Washington
and Lee the fourth spot.

Nearly nine minutes into the 15-
minute period, junior tri-captain Angie

Carrington blasted the game-winner
off a feed from senior tri-captain Su-
san Moseley. Carrington shouted glee-
ful approval after the 15-yard shot sailed
over the Homets' goalie.

Less than two minutes later, sopho-
more Jenny Lynch took a long lead
pass from junior Aspen Yawars and
beat the keeper one-on-one.

Junior tri-captain Kate Stimeling
notched her first shutout of the year as
she and the defense thwarted
Lynchburg’s attack for 120 minutes.
Juniors Allison Lewis, Kathleen
Eastland, and Yawars, along with
sophomore Marina Jackson, denied
Lynchburg easy shots and beat them to
loose balls.

The strong week began Saturday
with a 2-1 overtime victory at Guilford
College (NC). The win was the Gener-
als first in a month and raised their
ODAC record to 3-4.

W&L outplayed Guilford, but
trailed 1-0 after a first half goal by
Moseley. The senior beat her defender
and evened the score with 3:33 remain-
ing in the game, sending the game into
two l5-minute overtime periods.

Freshman Jennifer Robison headed
in a Moseley comer kick for the game-
winning goal in the first overtime. The

goal was Robison's third of the season.

The defense held Guilford to three
shots in overtime and 10 for the game.

The defense came out strong against
a better Methodist squad on Sunday,
the second game in the North Carolina
road swing.

Stimeling saved nine shots in the
first half. before giving up two second-
half goals. The offense had several
good opportunities, but failed to score,
as the Generals fell 2-0.

W&L enters Saturday's Parents
Weekend game with Messiah with a 4-
9 record and their tournament berth
locked up. Hathom feels strongly about
the team's chances to upset Messiah.

“We really play well when parents
are here,” she said, “and we could
upset them[Messiah]."

The team is much more confident
now than a week ago and it shows in
their play.

“It came down to scoring a goal and
winning a game to break the [scoring]
drought," said Hathom.

The Generals‘ open the tournament
athome against the winner of the Sweet
Briar-Lynchburg contest.

If it's Sweet Briar. W&L will be
looking to avenge a 1-0 loss a couple of
weeks ago.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

It was bedtime for Bridgewater
after the sun set on Brewbaker Field
Wednesday night as the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s soccer team
pounded the Eagles, 9-0.

The Bridgewater College soccer
team is the first the school has fielded
since 1942.

Thus, the Generals made the in-
fants of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference look as if they belonged
at Brewbaker playing for the adja-
cent Maury River Middle School.

The contest was the first night
game ever for the W&L men’s soc-
cer, and the Generals lit up the

.  .scoreboard foras manygoals as they

had scored in their previous nine
games combined.

Brewbaker’s lights went on
shortly after game time. W&L expe-
rienced an immediate power surge,
scoring four times in a 13 minute
span.

Freshman Bill Garcia started off

Men make history with
first night game at home

the Nightmare on Waddell Street with
a breakaway goal ten minutes into the
game. It was Garcia’s second this year.

Three minutes later, senior Mike
Mitchem used his head for his first of
three goals off an assist by freshman
Chad Dobbins.

Mitchem, a tri-captain who is two
assists shy of the W&L career mark of
22, added his second goal less than one
minute after the first, drilling home a
ten-yarder after a scramble in front of
the Eagles’ net.

Though Mitchem went assist-less,
his three goals were the eighth, ninth,
and tenth of his distinguished W&L
career. -

Freshman Nick Tatar scored once
intheﬁrsthalf and classmate Bo Manuel

-nailed scores to-give
Generals’ freshmen four goals for the
game. Junior Dan Rhodes also scored
two in the second half to round out the
slaughter.

Senior Reid Murphy, the Generals’
leading scorer with three goals coming
into the game, assisted on three of the
first half goals, giving the tri-captain

-«ingten for their regular season fi-

six assists this year.

W&L (5-7. 3-4 ODAC) could
have made it much worse. The Gen-
erals outshot Bridgewater 23-3.

The shutout was the fifth of the
season for W&L. Unfortimately,
they had stniggled to find their scor-
ing touch before Wednesday.

A 4-0 shutout of the Generals by
Virginia Wesleyan last Saturday left
them scorelessintwostraightgames.

Overall, the Generals had been I
outscored by their opponents 20-14
before meeting Bridgewater (1-10,
0-7 ODAC). The Eagles have scored
just seven goals all season, but 15 of
their 21 players are freshmen and
sophomores.

The Generals will remain in Lex-

nale on Saturday.

W&L will take on Lynchburg
College aspartof the Parents Week-
end sports schedule. Next week, the
Generals willtrytopreventthelights
from going out on their season as
play begins in the ODAC Tourna-
merit.

Welcome Parents

Reservations Recommended

(703) 366-2444

BORDEN COMMONS

A Compliment to University Life

FOR SALE

‘  , $1.00 ”couI=oN VALUABLE 34¢ COUPON one and Two Bedroom
* orsposnsrs Condominiums

.I - S I 900  I : cnrcrasr LIGHTER I
‘I I I W“ I Well Lighted Parking Lot * Maintenance Free * Cable T.V.
‘I   I I COUPON I Air Conditioning * Equipped Kitchen * Decks or Patios
‘ . Wh dD Hk-U*C 'ttC

.I , PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I I NTg;-§§3ggggJ{}geYd_ I as er an We .00 P OM16“ ° amp“

I 0 I I P|éi:nFiL0IIeCP<‘>;P‘;>i'sti' I From Mid $40’s to Low $70’s

‘  P  Itbrnoo. Directions: West on Nelson Street (Route 60), left on Borden Road, one block on right.

I I

I , OFFER GOOD OCT. 21 THRU OCT. 27, I992 2| ﬁgogm tgtggf pm 2159 Three blocks from Washington and Lee

.| __-_.-_, PRODUCE I I , 1992- ' NI=s GROCERY I
II °°ii’II?rNl  , _ _ . I I cggﬂeiu H “at - I

-—  A V A $3 runs 8! G
Ls::".... _"‘.‘L’E’.“__I _.__....._.....__._..I BAKER REAL ESTATE

 
 

  

107 East Washington

     

Street * P. O. Box 723 * Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-463-7319

        
   

I   Throu October 27, I99

Prices in This Ad Ettective Wednesday October 21 Through uesdciy, October 27 I992. In Lexington Stores
‘ On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Giodiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.
. r

Tom Baker, W&L '55 Scott Baker, W&L ’81

I

 

 

 

Last Week:

 
   
      
 

  
   

WTen- MWC 6 W&

   

Football- W&L 24, H-SC 21 (3-2)
WP- W&L 8,Richmond 6 10-9)

MSoc-W&L 9 B’water 0 ( -7
WSoc- W&L 2,Lynchbur 0 org (4-9)
VB- W&L 3,Sweet Briar (1 -l )

CC-(W) 1st at State;§l\/1’! at State

 

S

Ellie iﬂing-tum lﬁlri

PORTS

   
 

This Week:

Football- Sewanee 10/24, 1:30 .m.

WP- at EWPA Invit. 10/24&2

MSoc- L nchbur 10/24, 2:00 p.m.
WSoc- essiah, 0/24, 12:00 pm. .
VB- Hollins 10/22, 5:30 p.m.
CC-(M&W) W&L Invit. 10/24, 10:30

PAGE 10

By SEAN O’RoUrtxiz
Phi Sports Editor

Do you remember the commer-
cial phrase, “Do you know me?”

Of course you do, it was all over
television, and that is where a great
number of us spend most of our
time.

Well, Josephine Schaeffer is a
perfect candidate to start a new se-
ries of those commercials.

She's quickly becoming a na-
tionallyknown figureincross coun-
try, but her feats are just now being
fully realized. '

Schaeffer led the women’s team
to their first ever State Division IU
111 Championships this past week-
end, while winning her fifth con-
secutive race.

- Schaeffer’s success is a pleasant
surprise for head coach Jim
Phemister, but it’s even more sur-
prising to her.

“I am very surprised,” Schaeffer
said in a very modest tone.

“I didn’t know what to expect in
college races. But the team keeps
pushing me, and Coach Phernister
is a great help.”

Schaeffer finished first in the

Schaeffer runs
away with mark

meet, setting a course and school
record with a time of 17:54. It was
also a personal best for the fresh-
man from Memphis, Tenn.
Sophomore Kim Herring was
ﬁfth overall, freshman Amy Mears
was sixth, senior Nicole Casteel

was 10th and sophomore Teresa '

Lamey was 14th. All their times
were personal bests.

The ﬁve top-20 finishes pushed
the Generals five points ahead of
powerhouseMaryWashington Col-
lege and 20 ahead of Christopher
Newport.

The win leaves the team in good
shape entering the home stretch.
The women and men compete in
tliehome invitational this weekeend.

Schaeffer says the ultimate goal
is to win the regions.

“I want this season to end with
the W&L women’s cross country
team winning the regions and going
to nationals.”

Schaeffer is almost assured of
making nationals and she gives most
of the credit to her fellow runners
and Phemister.‘

“My success is all because of the
great support from the team and
Coach Phemister.” -

Generals water polo gains revenge against Richmond’

W&L nips the Tigers, 24-21-  

MacLane lost for the season with a separated shoulder

By SEAN O’RoURi<E
Phi Sports Editor

Streaks. Streaks. Streaks.

There are good ones, and there are
bad ones.

There are winning streaks and los-
ing streaks; hitting streaks and scoring
streaks.

The Washington and Lee football
team had a number of streaks entering
Saturday’s contest against the
Hampden-S ydney Tigers.

They wanted to end them all.

What streaks, you ask?

Well: its first home win since Nov.
10, 1990; first Old Dominion Athletic
Conference win since Nov. 3, 1990;
and its first back-to-back wins since
the two previous dates.

The Generals succeeded in exorcis-
ing those ghost-streaks.

The Generals played one of their
finest all-around games of the season
against their ODAC rivals, coming out
victorious, 24-21.

“It was anice win for our kids,” said
head coach Gary Fallon. “Hampden-
Sydney was voted to be runner-up in
the ODAC. It’s a real feather in our
kids’ caps.”

The offense was again placed on the
shoulders of sophomore Michael
MacLane, and he responded with three
touchdown runs.

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

MacLane scored twice in the sec-
ond quarter on runs of 21 yards and five
yards.

His third came in the third quarter
on a rim of four yards, which put the
Generals ahead 24-14.

W&L needed all three touchdowns
because the Tigers pulled to within
three on a 55-yards punt return for a
touchdown by Chris Haddock.

“The special teams played well,”
said Fallon. “They just missed a few
tackles on the return. I think it serves a
good notice that they must get better.”

The final outcome was assured by
the defense.

The Tigers had possession with a
little overa minute to go and trailing by
three.

The Tigers went for it all on their
first play.

Quarterback Brian Crist tried to hit
one of his receivers down the right
sideline, but freshman Stuart Hogue
stepped in front to pick off the lame-
duck offering.

The win came at a major cost,
though.

MacLane was lost for the season
with a third degree separation of his
left shoulder. The injury is not the
dreaded, career-ending, but it will be at
least six months before he is finished
with his rehabilitation. .

Head trainer Tom Jones said the

    
    
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
         
   
   
    
  
     
    
  
   
  
  
    

OCTOBER 22, 1992

Photo by Jameson Leonardi. The Ring-tum Phi
Torn Mason takes off around the right slde late In the fourth quarter
of Saturday’s win over M-SC. Mason takes over for Michael‘-
MacLane, who was lost for the season with a separated shouller._
injury will not require surgery and show his talent.

should heal in time to work out in the “lt’stough losing Mike, butTommy
spring. has the talent and now will have to

Fallon says that junior Tommy show it on the field. He will have to
Mason must now step forward and step up and play well.” I

   
     
   
     

By MARK S  foul. . _ _ . _ At numerous times in the period, Richmond’s coach, on his only shot attempt. '
phi smff wme, Head coach Page Remillard said the officials quickly disrriayed by his tearn’s temporary ineptitude, made enough Even though the win was an incredible emotional lift fo -«
established a tight game. of a show to attract the attention of many of the W&L the team, Remillard said the game was by no meansaperfe

“The ref established early how he was going to call the
game. He was tough in the shallow end, and that’s what we
were defending first.”

faithful.
The coach did not escape without hearing the rhythmic
chant of his name falling from the gallery above.

one. 9»
“I thought we dominated the game, therefore, to only wi
by two goals, means there were some things that we didn’}

The highlight of the Washington and Lee water polo
team’s week was a showdown with the University of Rich-

mond Spiders at Twombly Pool. This put W&L in the precarious position of playing the Remillard gave credit to the gathering for its role in the do right.
W&L entered the match at 9-9 after being 7-3 earlier in rest of the game withouta starter. W&L answered with their procession of the game. “It comes back to our offense. We think we can create . .
the season. defense. “The crowd instilled pride in the players. It made them lot of counter attack opportunities. We should be gettin
Junior Greg Golub and senior P.J. Waicus helped right The Generals’ tenacious defense afforded the visitors want to perform well in front of their peers.” better shots.” ‘
the team's ship with some spectacular play, leading theteam few quality chances.- s In the ﬁnal frame, Richmond rallied to close the margin W&L will have two more shots at their in-state rivals.

to an inspired 8-6 win.

It didn’t start off well, though.

With four minutes gone in the first quarter, senior co-
captain Chris Hag ge was ejected from the game for his third

By the end of the first half, the capacity crowd saw W&L
carry a 4-3 lead into the locker room.

The third stanza was dominated by the Generals. Rich-
mond managed only one goal.

to one with roughly a minute left in the game. The defense
held and the comeback fell short.

Golub paced the Generals with five goals, junior Jacob
Berrnan added two, and freshman Patrick McKenna scored

First at the EWPA Division III Invitational. A week
later, the two could meet at the Southem Water Polo
Championships held at Hampden-Sydney, which begins on
Halloween.

4

0

THE

TUDENT CTIVITIES

OARD 

AND

 G°aham—Lee-Wan J\/ .- _ ,
present 1 , 

Wednesday Night in the Pit: 

A Mock Presidential Debate   3

followed by   A .

“A Night of Dixieland Jazz” -3

with ‘

GA 7

Wednesday, October 28th, 1992

 
   
 

 

THE UNlVERSiTY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON 8. LEE Ln~:ivERs‘iT\{,
IEXINGTON, VA. 24450: r"

001 3 01992

 

GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES

Get Into The Spirit Of Halloween
With Lexington’s Ghost Stories

All Eyes On The Election 

Don't Miss
The Ring-tum Phi’s
Special Coverage

@

Clhiz iliing-tum lﬁlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 8

Miller
dismissal
. upheld

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON,

If the election were held today, who would you vote for?

October 13 October 21

   
   

Undecided
Clinton

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

‘ ‘The Student Conduct Committee
Tuesday upheld the expulsion of
. Marcus Miller after an appeal board
instructed the SCC,to rehear the case.
“After careful consideration, the
SCC unanimously decided to uphold
the original decision,’,’iSCC President
. lﬁggie Aggarwal said after the hear-
mg. ' r
' Miller hung up ona reporter who
called to ask about the decision.
, On Oct. 7, the SCC voted to per-
; ‘manently dismiss Miller from W&L
after ﬁnding him guilty of harass-
nt, trespassing and ungentlemanly
conduct.
Dean of Students David Howison
4 said Miller submitted a written appeal
to a board consisting of Executive
Committee President Josh
MacFarland, Associate Dean of Stu-
dQnts Dennis Manning, and Cinda

I

- ' Rankin, the senior faculty member of

the Student Affairs Committee.
Normally, Howison would serve
I on the board, but he said he removed
himself because he was involved with

Lthecase at an early stage.

Q Howison said the board asked the

Bush

   

Statistics are based on two random surveys of 50 W&L students conducted on Oct. 13-14 and Oct.
21. Margin of error is :7 percent.

W&L backs Bush, barely

As election looms, 30 percent of students are undecided

But only 22 percent of those who watched said the
debates have affected their vote.

“The debates just convinced me that typical politicians
are still lying,” said third-year law student Joseph Dow
Covey.

Once the polls close on Nov. 3, some students are
planning to take some time out from homework to watch the
election results on television.

Members of College Democrats will meet at a member’s
apartment to watch the returns,
President Cottie Miles said.

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Staff Writer

As election day looms closer, many W&L students are
still undecided in the presidential election.

According to a random survey of 50 W&L students taken
13 days before the election, 30 percent said they did not
know which candidate they will vote for on Nov. 3. The
survey’s margin of error is plus
or minus 7 percent.

VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 29, 1992

Phi Delt sentence
to be rethought

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi‘ Staff Writer

Phi Delta 'I'heta’s house corpora-
tion will consider reopening that
house's kitchen after parents of Phi
Delt members protested the harshness
of the punishment at a meeting Friday.

Dean of Students David Howison
said about 50 Phi Delt parents and
students gathered Friday for a ques-
tion-and-answer session about the
house corporation’s decision to revoke
house dining privileges and suspend
all other house func-

$500 chair was broken and bathroom
stall partitions were pulled down.
Howison said the main concern of
parents was that the punishment was
too harsh for the damage done to the
house on Homecoming weekend.
Howison said he, Associate Dean
of Students Leroy “Buddy" Atkins,
and Phi Delt faculty advisor Joseph
Goldsten told parents that the punish-
ment was for a string of damages to the
house, not just one weekend's worth.
“[The house corporation’s] action
is based on a pattern of damage that
actually goes back to last year,”
Howison said.

tions. Last year, both the

At the end of the Interfratemity Council
meeting, Howison said, and the house corpora-
the parents told tion put Phi Delt on
Howison to ask the social probation,
housecorporationtore- Howison said. Recent

consider the punish-
ment.

Phi Delt House Cor-
porationPresidentJohn
McIntyre maintained
that revoking food
priveleges was not too
harsh a punishment, but
said the corporation
would reevaluate the
punishment because of the parents’
concerns.

“The house corporation currently

 

Howison

SCC to rehear the case because of
“irregularities in due process” proce-
dures.

This is Miller's second SCC con-
viction.

In November 1991; the SCC sus-
pgnded Miller for trespassing, two
months after he pled guilty in Lexing-
ton General District Court to trespass-
ing in a W&L student’s home during
the previous summer.

The citytrespassing charge resulted
from aplea bargain, reducing the origi-
n 1 charge of breaking and entering
with intent to commit a sexual-assault

felony, according to court records. said.

Republican George Bush re-
ceived 38 percent of the stu-
dents’ votes, while 30 percent
supported Democrat Bill
Clinton. Only one respondent,
or 2 percent of the respondents,
said his vote was going to inde-
pendent candidate Ross Perot.

W&L students seem united
in their concern about the up-
coming election, as shown by
the 90 percent of students who
said they watched at least some of the presidential debates.

“The outcome of the election will have a pretty signiﬁ-
cant effect on every American,” freshman Andrew Bidwell

 

election night.

Reporters will call in the re-
sults from Lexington and Buena Vista as the votes are

tabulated.

“It will be tons of work but this is our big night,” senior

journalism student Talley Woolley said.

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Public Affairs Director Grace Sarber and President John Ripley show off the new name and logo for Southern Virginia College
for Women, formerly Southern Seminary College.

Southern Semi_narychanges its name
to eliminate religious connotations

' By LEIGH ALLEN and GREGORY PATIEISON
Phi News Editors

The vocabulary of W&L students was changed
forever Tuesday when Southern Seminary Col-
lege became Southern Virginia College for
Women.

Southern Virginia President John Ripley said
the new name clears up confusion about the
school’s mission.

“It says who we are, what we are and where
we are, but especially what we are not," Ripley
said in a press conference Tuesday. “They see
‘gseminary’ and think we’re a convent.”

First-year Southern Virginia student Carolyn
Sanders said people from her home state of
Michigan were confused by the old name.

“They ask me if I’m going to be a nun,”
Sanders said while her horse grazed on the front
lawn of the college Tuesday morning. “I just quit

gelling people where I was going to school.”

Ripley said the new name is one in a series of
recent changes for the 125-year-old Buena Vista

college, aimed at increasing the school’s enroll-
ment and academic reputation.

Ripley said the name “Southem Seminary”
was a detriment in attracting new students.

“Hopefully this name will prevent prospec-
tive students from walking past our admissions
table at recruiting fairs,” said Ripley, who was
recently appointed president of the college. “The
new name manifests all the changes we made
over the summer in the leadership, the adminis-
tration and courses.”

The college’s colors will also change from
purple and gold to brick red and hunter green.

Ripley said the new name was selected by the‘

Board of Trustees earlier this month. Students
were told of the change at a special assembly
Tuesday morning, one hour before it was an-
nounced publicly. ’

Although Ripley said most students like the
new name, some say they preferred the old one.

“I don’t think they should have changed it,”
said Wendy Cullen, a senior from Buena Vista.
“I’ve lived here all my life and I don’t want it to
change. It’s a tradition.”

Ripley said an independent researcher gave
six names plus Southern Seminary to a group of
college students in North Carolina and asked
them to rate the names from best to worst. He said
a name similar to “Southem Virginia College for
Women” was at the top of the list and “Southem
Seminary College” was ranked last.

Ripley said the class of ’93 will receive diplo-
mas from Sem. The class of ’94 will be the first to
graduate from Southern Virginia.

The college was established in 1867 as The
Home School for Girls in Bowling Green, Va.,
and became Southern Seminary when it moved to
Buena Vista in 1901. Since then it has been
named Southern Seminary and Junior College,
Southern Seminary Junior College and, most
recently, Southern Seminary College.

Sem alumna Beth Thompson, ’82, said she
supports the name change if it helps recruit stu-
dents.

“Enrollment is down,” Thompson said. “I’d
rather be an alum of a college by a different name
that’s still standing than one that’s just a vacant
building.”

, Christine Will, secretary of
the College Republicans, said
her group will be at the polls in
Lexington until they close, and
then will watch the results.

' Instead of just watching elec-
tion results, students at W&L’s
Cable Charmel 9 will present
their traditional election broad-
cast starting at about 7:30 on

thinks it is extremely easy for kids to
eat in the dining hall or on campus, ”
McIntyre said.

“This is really between the [Phi
Delt] house and the house corporation,
” McIntyre said. “I think the fraternity
members know why [the punishment
is fitting].”

A representative of the house cor-
poration, the group of 10 Phi Delt
alumni in charge of managing the house,
was unable to attend the meeting,
Howison said.

Two weeks ago, the house corpora-
tion suspended Phi Delt social func-
tions and closed the kitchen after a

Students to

rush violations, peri-
odic damages to the fra-
ternity and the Home-
coming mishaps
prompted the house
corporation’s punish-
ment, Howison said.

Some parents said
closing the Phi Delt
kitchen was a cruel and

unusual punishment.

“We were significantly concerned
and upset that suddenly the kids
couldn’t eat,” Phi Delt father Thomas
Sumner said. “We are not as concerned
with the social activity probation.”

Sumner said that though each
member‘ s food money will be refunded,

' that still leaves Phi Delts with the ques-
tion of where to eat.

Sumner said the meeting was edu-
cational, but the absence of a house
corporation representative left parents
with unanswered questions.

“The meeting was somewhat one-
sided because we had to continually
refer to the deans,” Sumner said. “This

C] see PHI DELT, page 6

payfor

pavilion until 2003

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

How much would you pay
for the Student Activities Pavil-
ion?

$19.95?

$29.95?

How about $677,000?

“A lot went into [the pavil-
ion] and it's not obvious to the
casual observer," Capital Plan-
ning Assistant Frank Parsons
said.

AssistantTreasurer and Con-
troller John Cuny said $277,000 The student
of the cost was paid by the uni- .
versity and the other $400,000 is being paid
for by the student body. I

In 1984, the Executive Committee agreed
to give W&L about $25 out of each student’s
activities fee until the building is paid for.
Cuny said $311,000 was still owed on the
pavilion after the 1991-92 school year.

EC Vice President Ames Hutton said the
student body will pay $49,150 on the pavil-
ion this .year.

Cuny said that at the current rate the
pavilion will be paid off in 2003.

Parsons said extra features made the pa-
vilion so expensive.

Parsons said the plumbing and electrical
ﬁxtures, a special ﬂoor, high cinder block

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The R/ng-tum Phi
Activities Pavilion cost $677,000.

walls, circulation fans, wall drains and large
roll-up doors made up 40 to 45 percent of the
building’s cost.

Parsons said the features were needed to
make the pavilion useful to both the Student
Activities Board and athletics department.

Parsons said the university thought that
when the pavilion was built the student body
would use it more than it does. He said the
change in the drinking age from 18- to 21-7
years—old hurt attendance at pavilion events.

“As soon as we had two classes of stu-

dents, those who could drink and those who
could not drink, attendance dropped,” Par-
sons said. “But for the first couple of years,
it was a hugely successful building.”

From the W&L News Office

Former Nixon administration official and con-
victed Watergate conspirator G. Gordon Liddy
will speak in Lee Chapel tonight at 8 p.m.

In the Nixon administration, Liddy served first
as special assistant to the Secretary of the Trea-
sury and in 1971 was sent to the White House as
a staff assistant to the President.

Liddy resigned his White House post to accept
the position of general counsel to the l972Repub—
lican Committee to Re-elect the President.

Liddy was sentenced to 20 years in prison for
his involvement in and cover up of the Watergate
burglaries. He served nearly five years before
being released by President Jimmy Carter.

Today, Liddy hosts a Washington, DC. talk
radio program and is the author of three bestsellers.

Watergate’s Liddy to speak

 

 

 

PAGE 2

    

Gilt: iKing—tum lﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Students, society
shine in debate

The Graham-Lee-Washington Literary Society inaugurated its
year last night with the mock debate in the GHQ. And from what we
saw, things are off to a good start for the ﬂedgling society.

The performances by all ﬁve contenders for president were
admirable. The mock candidates were true to their platforms and
characters. ’

Junior Cottie Miles captured the homey spirit of Bill Clinton as
he strayed from the stage to be near the audience. He addressed
audience members by name and repeatedly tailored his statements
to the college-age crowd. V

Senior Andrew Schneider brought George Bush to the stage.
Schneider’s almost whiny voice and carefully placed pauses, bal-
anced against quick, dramatic lines like, “Watch out!” formed an
echo of the president.

Schneider also deserves credit for portraying the Republican
president. That was a contrast to Schneider’s liberal image on
campus, arising from his association with the ACLU. His eager
participation in an ironic role was a service to the literary-society
environment, challenging people’s preconceptions.

Freshman Tom Fink ﬁlled the bi g(?) Texan shoes of Ross Perot.
Fink had on hand no less than a dozen of the ﬁery billionaire’s
trigger lines and phrases. He ranted about the debt, “the gorrilla
charging up the front steps,” and promised task forces that would
look at the “plans lying all over Washington.” At one point he let
Miles/Clinton‘ and Schneider/Bush tear into each other for a few
minutes before getting up and remarking on two-party gridlock.

The real heroes of the debate are Richard Hill and Cameron
Humphries, who portrayed the Libertarian Andre Marrou and U.S.
Taxpayers candidate Howard Phillips.

Hill and Humphries had the challenging task of researching the
more obscure candidates. Both, fully in character, expressed their
appreciation for inclusion in the public forum. And both presented
the platforms with which voters, including students, are not very
familiar. This again is true to the literary-society goal of intellectual
enrichment.

The debate was wisely held in the Generals Headquarters rather
than Lee Chapel or some other, more formal place. This is consis-
tent with the Literary Society’s goal of “intellectual challenges
within social environments.” This forum offered intellectual stimu-
lation and entertainment all in one.

Students’ motives in attending ‘the debate seemed to vary.
Certainly some people came most importantly to learn more about
the parties’ platforms. And it seemed that some people came solely
to see their friends role play. We might_ suggest that students
approach the event somewhat more open,-mindedly; frat.emal_alle-
giances seemed to sway the audience polls. But most of the
spectators probably went to the debate seeking a mix of education
and entertainment, and that is a reasonable expectation.

The Literary Society indeed seems to be filling a unique role on
our campus ﬁlled by no other organization. If the society can
maintain the quality of its presentations at a level with that of the

debate, even with room for improvement in tenns of attendance,
then the the group might begin a ﬁne, new tradition at W&L.

Quote of the Week

—— Who's that?
— Robert E. Lee.
— What’s he doing?
——Lying there dead.
A— Is it a statue or did they just pour plaster over his
body?
— Conversation between father and daughter, overheard in
Lee Chapel on Parents Weekend

This is a problem that's inbred in everyone of us.
—— Junior Cottie Miles as Bill Clinton, on cultural ignorance,
employing the second definition of “inbred”

WASHINGTON —— With triumph
on sight, Bill Clinton has suddenly
veered right.

“A different Democrat” is what

 
Clinton’s campaign
veers to the right

grand strategy, or simply week—to-week
tactics? Is the self-styled ‘ ‘different
sort of Democrat” the genuine article
or merely a masked man grabbing for

more Rocky Mountain votes

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

than he deserves? Is Bill
Clinton building a mandate
for centrist, even conserva-
tive Democratic government

the 46-year-old Arkansas governor was
billing himself last week, rejecting both
the ‘ ‘trickle-down” economics of
Bush-Reagan Republicans and the ‘ ‘tax
and spend” legacy of his own party’s
once-dominant left.

‘ ‘Of all the people running for presi-

dent this year, ’ ’ he told western crowds,

“only one has ever passed a balanced

budget and only one has ever taken on

the lobbyists.’ ’

A taste for ﬁscal responsibility and

a distaste for what Ross Perot called

‘ ‘men in $1,000 suits and alligator

shoes” is not all the Fifteen Point Fa-

vorite was pushing last week.

In an all-out appeal to Bush-weary
Republicans and sometime Perotistas,

Clinton now steers a starboard course
on every high-fever issue from deﬁcit-

spending to welfare cheating and street
crime.

‘ ‘I'liere’s a new Democratic Party, ’ ’

he declared to Colorado and Wyoming
audiences, ‘ ‘and anew Democratic can-
didate.’ ’ One who backs the gas cham-
ber for killers, bad times for welfare
chiselers, and jail for young, first-time
criminals.

So what are we to make of Cliriton’s
pre-election tilt rightward? ,

Is what we're hearing a display of

or simply padding his win in
the Electoral College?

Does he seek a policy mandate Nov.
3 or only a popular one?

With the election fast approaching,
and with PresidentBushattacking hard
at Clinton’s sincerity, this is the key
question of the 1992 election:

Is Bill Clinton the man he says he is
or merely an Arkansas-accented mem-
ber of the Walter Mondale-Ted
Kennedy-Jesse Jackson faction?

Does he intend to steer an indepen-
dent course, or dance to the tune of the
interest groups who anticipate the
Democrat’s arrival in Washington as a
groom awaits his bride on their wed-
ding night? 4

I have two reasons to hope that
Clintonmeansprecisely what he’snow
confessing in cities like Cheyenne and
Pueblo —- that he intends to build a
centrist Democratic administration,
attuned to economic growth rather than
redistribution, to individual responsi-
bility rather than public largesse, to
justice for criminals rather than “fur-
loughs.”

The first is Clinton’s long support
for the maverick Democratic Leader-
ship Council. This is the largely-South-
em group of governors, senators and
members of Congress who rallied to-
gether after Ronald Reagan’s 49-state

 

  

ﬁ.‘.'.\i i\\ii\l.\'.\\iI it fit‘ t':\'i.‘. \‘1i\\£i tit .iidli\\\&s:ii\\\;} :\\i\‘\l\\i\\

  

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

.' 'iTi\R'.lI.'l's\7iii’i\\\'i-3\'ii£\l\\

landslide in 1984 to push and pull their
party to the center. To many observers,
this one included, the DLC ’s challenge
to the old Democratic establishment

—was more than a shift rightward. It was

a rescue operation, a bold campaign to
free Democratic candidates from the
clutches of the interest groups: the
teachers who claim imperial control
over education policy, the labor unions
who seek to dictate trade policy —
whatever the impact on consumers, the
fat-cat contributors who treat foreign
policy as a bidding war.

As a chairman of the DLC, Bill

Clinton has led the charge against this
Old Democratic Order . And while
he’s displayed an often unsavory pen-
chant for back sliding, the Arkansan‘
continues to argue, hardly a week be-
fore the ’92 election, that Democrzﬁs
need to get beyond their old losing,
interest group ways, no matter how
comfortable they’ve become.

The fact that he’s returned to his
centrist roots so close to Nov. 3 is the
best evidence that Clinton is seeking
not just a middle-class victory butga
pro-middle class mandate as well.

@1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

D

WASHINGTON—Everest has been conquered
and the Amazon has been explored, so the biggest
challenge remaining for intrepid people is to state
reasons for re-electing George Bush. Here goes.

Like Bush’s grating, screeching, fingerriails-on-
the-blackboard campaign, I will spend little time
being positive, relying in-

Mini-presidency preferable to Clinton

his pander bear mode, genuﬂectin g at the altar of Roe
vs. Wade, that incoherent monument to B1ackmun’s
jurisprudence. But regarding the judicial branch,
where an ethic of process should prevail, Clinton
seems purely result-oriented.

America's notorious litigiousness (more than
18,400,000 civil
suits were ﬁled in

stead on the argument that
Clinton would be even

GEoRGE WILL

state courts in

,cerning education and the — 1 .
politicizing of culture. Regarding these subjects,
Bush’s administration is at its best and a Clinton
adrriinistration might be at its worst.

The leaders of Bush’s Education Departrnent—
, Secretary Lamar Alexander, David Keams, Diane
Ravitch — and Lynne Cheney at the National En-
dowment for the Humanities are valuable precisely
because their intense interest in ideas makes them so
unlike the president they serve. A Clinton presidency
probably would bring to education policy the sclero-
sis of the public education lobbies, and to the NEH
the batty political culture of a college English depart-
ment chock full of deconstructionists.

There are 200 other reasons to re-elect Bush. That
is the number of federal judges Bush would nomi-
nate, at his current rate, in a second term — approxi-
mately one every seven days. Regarding judicial

appointments, Republican superiority is still striking
and supremely important. Republican nominees are
less apt to regard the judicial branch as a second
legislative branch, and Clinton and Congress might
do what Carter and Congress did when they ex-
panded the federal judiciary by 30 percent.

When Clinton singled out Supreme Court Justice
Harry Blackrnun (the least intellectually formidable
of today's nine) as a sitting justice he would have
liked to have appointed, he may have been merely in

woge. It cctihuld wellbetrue. 1990, up 30 per-

ut on epositive side, Washin ton P ' cent in just six
Rugnac-ityonbeha1fofprin_ g ost Writers Group years) is both
ciples is much-needed con- - cause and effect of

the lunatic prolif-
eration of lawyers (from 260,000 in 1960 to 760,000
today). Americans tend to turn every social dispute
into an angry clash of “rights,” so America is becom-
ing an increasingly discordant arena of individuals
and groups throwing elbows and shredding commu-
nity feeling. Alas, Clinton is the candidate of the trial
lawyers. His party is full of believers in litigious
liberalism. They prefer to pursue social change
through litigation rather than legislation, or through
legislation (like the Americans with Disabilities Act
and the most recent Civil Rights Act) that breeds
litigation.

Furthermore, the Democratic Party is suffused
with sympathy for the doctrine of group rights. That
doctrine is Balkanizing America into grievance groups
(the phrase is Shelby Steele’s) claiming victimiza-
tion and elaborating agendas for racial, etlmic and
sexual spoils systems. Because of the ideology of
victimization, it is improbable that a Democratic
president will talk fonhrightly about the crisis of
character in those portions of the American commu-
nity that are being destroyed by bad behavior —
crime, drug abuse, irresponsible procreation. '

Regarding the economy, Clinton’s sometimes
naive and sometimes tendentious bandying of wealth
distribution indicates both bad economics and half-
baked moral theories. With his unreﬂective rhetoric

CIinton’s election would end

about “the rich” paying “their fair share,” and ids ‘
promise of increased equality through income redis-
tribution, Clinton shows that he does not know the
crucial questions about modern society, let alone
useful answers. ‘
James Q. Wilson frames the issue as follows.
Largely because of genetic factors (and partly be-
cause of advantages of nurturing that are not any-
nable to redistribution by government), people differ

in aptitudes. Society tends to reward useful aptitudes. d

This produces hierarchies of pay and power that are
resistant to rearrangement by government, including
government attempts to redistribute income.

» Such attempts usually are perverse because they
ignore how income differences are necessary
reward activities. The attempts are short-sighted be-
cause history suggests that economic growth —
which redistributionist measures can inhibit ——does
more than redistributionist measures to narrow in-
equalities. The attempts are indefensible. Or at least
undefended, because liberals like Clinton are so
cocksure of their moral intuitions that they feel no
need to explain exactly why society would be bettcr
off if income distribution were made more equal by
government action. Liberals confuse an adjective
(“fair”) with an argument.

A Clinton presidency would be hyperkinetic. The
negligible presence of the Bush presidency in Ameri-
can life is perhaps the best reason for preferring Bush
to Clinton. ‘

Bush is presiding —— without reﬂection, of course
—— over a welcome miniaturization of the presidency.
Another Bush term and that office may be back
where it belongs, back where the sainted Coolidge
kept it, on the periphery of national consciousness,-
drained of priestly pretensions about being custodian
of “values.” Restoration of constitutional balanQe
and a sense of political proportion would be served
by four more years of this incredible shrinking presi-

denc .
y @1992, Washington Post Writers Group

gridlock .

-.~»:vvv.? ~ - "If we see ~
"g.’*.a“;".7‘:§’1:\"«s .3‘ ~“i"«’.*i.’«.

 

@112 i.Rittg—tunt lﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phi1 Carrott

Business Manager. . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ’. Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, rootn
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that

Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The '

WASHINGTON— Pursuant to the
sound advice that one should perform
an unpleasant duty each day to stay in
moral trim, today I concoct the best
case I can for electing Bill Clinton.

One reason for electing Clinton is

government it already is getting, and
certainly does not need most of the
additional government that Clinton
promises and that the Democratic Con-
gress will merrily augment. But the

nation does need some more govem-

ment.
Americans, who

GEORGE WILL

Washington Post Writers Group

waste $14 billion worth
of time and fuel because
of congested highways
and airports, need in-

that re—electing Bush would prove there
is no penalty for failure in American
politics. That is a recipe for increasing
the national stock of failure.

Bush’s record is poor and his carn-

paigri has been execrable. Before the
1988 campaign a Democrat said, “If
we can’t beat Bush, we have to pick
another country.” If after these four
years and this campaign the Demo-
cratic Party loses again, it may become
as irresponsible as the Republican Party
became after 1948 (remember Joe
McCarthy), when it lost a fourth con-
secutive election.

Furtherrnore, it might be useful, if
only to restore the good name of
gridlock, to have responsibility ﬁrmly
fixed in one party controlling both po-
litical branchesof the federal govem-
ment. Why anyone would want
Washington’s political culture to be
given an opportunity for unrestrained
expression, 1 cannot imagine. But
people complain about gridlock, so let
it be gone. The resulting growth of
government will at least be accompa-
nied by clarity about which party is
accountable for the mess the growth
inevitably will make.

America does not need all of the

creased spendin g on in-
frastructure. The nation needs some
preventative government -— measures
to forestall future and larger demands
on government. Child care and public
health education are examples. America
ranks 25th among nations in the immu-
nization rate of preschool children and
worse regarding immunization of non-
white children. And almost half the
mortality in America is related to health-
damaging behavior — smoking, drug
and alcohol abuse, unsafe sex and driv-
ing, etc.
Clinton’s life has unfortunatelybeen
an almost seamless glide from campus
into government, but at least he has
been a governor and may be amenable
to fresh thinking about federalism. For
decades the federal government, that
overbearing and overreaching under-
achiever, has been on a binge of “activ-
ity acquisition” (Alice Rivlin’s phrase).
It is now buckling beneath the weight.
We need a sorting-out of federal from
state and local responsibilities. It is
possible, if just barely, to hope Clinton
can undertake this, against the opposi-
tion of all the interests to which he and
his party are beholden — interests with
much invested in their leverage in
Washington.

Onthetheorythat“onlyNixoncould
have gone to China” — the theory that
there are some thorny issues only con-
servatives (or liberals) will be trusted
to touch — perhaps it is time for
liberalism’s moral vanity to meet real-
ity. Clinton and his party think they
have cornered the market on “compas-
sion” and can ‘—‘control”_ the cost of
medical care. Let them come to grips
with facts like this: 30 percent of all
Medicare dollars are spent on patients
in the last twelve months of life.

Fifty percent of American youths
do not attend college. Half of America's
high schools have no
physics teachers.
Half of the math and
science teachers are
not certified in those

subjects. Perhaps
Clinton can reason
with the most retro-
grade force in
American education
— his fervent sup--
porters in the public
education lobby —
to raise standards
and spend the ample
education dollars
more sensibly. (Per

American

jects. _

ifty percent of

not attend college.
Half of America’s
high schools have no
physics teachers. Half
of the math and sci-
ence teachers are not’
certified in those sub-

taxes pledge to 99 percent of taxpay-
ers. Itshould be entertaining to see him
try to keep that promise (and the prom-
ise of middle-class tax relief, and of
deficit reduction, and of dozens of new
programs) and also keep his libeial
friends friendly.

    
    
   
   

6

)
(Actually, to be pitilessly fair,

Clinton promises several substantial
new taxes on workers and consumers.
Requiring business to pay re-training
and medical care taxes will take money
from what otherwise would be work-

Q

I
ers ’ wages and from consumers through

increased prices of goods and services.)
The paramount
issue is how to re-
store sustained eco-
youths d0 cientto generate jolgs
and the revenues e-
quired for a welfare
state serving an ag-
ing population. Per-
haps Clinton is cor-
rect. Perhaps such
growth will be
achieved by siphon-
ing money from
wealthy investing in-
dividuals and giving»
it to politicians to

pupil spending on
grades K-12 in-
creased 35 percent in constant dollars
during the last decade, but much of it
stuck to the Velcro of bureaucracy.)
Liberals who excoriate Bush for his
“irresponsible” no-new-taxes pledge
shouldnote that Clinton pledges no
new taxes on individuals other than
those with adjusted gross earnings of at
least $150,000 and on joint ﬁlers cam-
in g at least $200,000. That is a no-new-

disperse (often to
public employees
who are the new core of the Dem!-
cratic Party, which represents govem-
ment as an interest group).

Perhaps.

This policy will either be success-
ful, in which case the nation will re-
joice, or it will be educational, remind-
ing the nation why it turned right not Q)
long ago.

©1992, Washington Post Writers Group

v

I

v

nomic growth sufﬁ— ‘

v

F

o

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

O

OPINION

0 Beware the over-eager meter person

8

C

ONE GUY’s OPINION
' By Chris Citron

Before I begin, I’d just like to take
some time to say something that has
come to mean so much to me recently.
(To be sung to the tune of Canada’s
national anthem).

‘ Oh Toronto
Thank God you beat the
Braves in six
Now I don’t have to see those
STUPID tomahawks and
listen to the bandwagon
Brave’s fans for another

9 year.

4

Okay, so it lost its musical integrity,
but honestly, who cares? The Blue
Jays beat the Braves. The Blue Jays
beat the Braves. The Blue Jays beat the
Braves. Ifeel better now. And let’s get

bit cleared up here so I don’t get any
more really cool letters: I’m not a

bandwagon Blue Jays fan; I’m anti-V

Braves.

Actually, I really don’t have much
to say this week. Not that that has ever
stopped me before, but today I am truly

‘at a loss. However, (Was hoping I was
just gonna end the column like that,
huh? Wrong. I won’t let you off that
easily.) However, I would like to men-

tion that there’s a guy ridin’ around in
a golf cart/motor scooter/bi g wheel/
green machine combination who is tak-
ing his job way too seriously. And I
know, that you know, that I know, that
you know, exactly who I’m talkin’
about.

This guy’s job is not that difficult.
Nor is it that big a deal.
And yet, he makes it a
big deal. He once tried
to give me a ticket on a
bike. A bike! A friend
and I were going back
to the house one after-
noon on the sidewalk;

I would like to men-
tion that there’s a guy
ridin’ around in a golf
cart/motor scooter/big
wheel/green machine

to write me up for riding on the side-
walk. I started to bike away, but was
afraid he might have Turbo in that can,
and instead justthanked him for the
warning.

Others have not been so for-
tunate, however. I know one student

who received a ticket, on a bike, for

running a red
light. And still
another who got
a speeding ticket
on a bike for go-
ing over 15 mph.
I'd ask whether or
not he has any-

he was walking, I was _ . _ thing better to do
onmybikeandwewere combination who IS with his time,bﬁ1t
keepingpacewitheach ' ' ° it seems that e

taking [118 _]0b way too does_ whenever

other. Now my friend
wasn't walking too

seriously. And I know,

he’s not chasing

quiuckjy bicaused that you know, that I dowrg , parked
 cars, 6 SC asm

:ieIwas»en’vtvf1rSulj?i:ida$g know! that you know’ down unleasheg
in the real sense ofthe exactly who I’m animals. Yés.
word. But sure enough, ' 9 he’s not only the
you-know-who ges- talk“! al,)0ut' meter person

tured to me. I thought

he was waving, so I moved along and
waved back. But he kept doing it,
which led me to the conclusion that
there was something wrong with him,
so I approached him and his three-
wheelin’ tricycle, where he proceeded

(wouldn’t wantto
start anything sexist, y’know?), but
he’s also the dog catcher.

It is not my intention to demean this
man’s occupation, but there’s some-
thing about that job that intrinsically
armoys me, besides the fact that I have

to pay money. I’ve come to the conclu-
sion that it’s because he acts too cool.
I’m surprised he hasn’t put a sticker on
the back of his vehicle that says: ‘ ‘R;D.
RADICAL DUDE.” He should be
motorin’ down Washington Street with
“R.D. RIGHTEOUS DEATH”
painted on the side, Terminator shades
on, and a big, old, leather belt that has
a notch for every ticket he’s written.
Sort of a hybrid between Clint
Eastwood, Arnold Schwarzenegger,
Mr. Farley from “Three’s Company,”
and Mr. McPheeley from ‘ ‘Mister
Roger’s Neighborhood.” Then he'd
at least look the part he’s got the atti-
tude for. And it might actually be
worth the price of a ticket.

Maybe if he didn’tride in the scooter,
I’d like his job a little more. Or if every
once in a while he left a note saying
”Next time it’ll be $10,” instead of a
ticket, I'd appreciate his effort. Or if he
smiled when he wrote the ticket like
Baner does, maybe I'd like him as
much as I looooove Baner.

Maybe. But perhaps the only reso-
lution would be to stop giving those
darrtntickets. ‘Relax R.D. Acarparked
for more than two hours isn ’t the end of
the world. Take it easy. And write me
something meaningful next time you
get my car. It's gold, with a Maryland
plate.

6

Parking problems

To the Editors:
I am writing in regard to the lunacy of the parking
mystem in Lexington, Va. I parked my car in the
parking lot behind Bestseller Books. I parked it a

9:45 a.m., noticing that they had changed the lot from '

a two-hour to one-hour limit. I returned to my car at
10:57 a.m. to find a dog catcher/rent-a-cop placing a
ticket on my car.

When I told him that I was there for only a few

mminutes extra he told me “no grace, one-hour limit,

move your car every hour.” Though I did comment
on his use of the English language, I realized that this
was happening to all other cars in the lot. I have also
noticed that many of the parking lots have been
changed from two-hour to one-hour limits. 4
This “screw the students” tactic obviously will

. force students from these lots even though we are
forced to pay car taxes, which I’ve paid. There is no.

possible way for a student to even go to one class and
return in time so as not to get a ticket.
If the patrons of Lexingtonvare pleased with this

tactic maybe W&L should no longer openvourrpark- '

_ in g lots in the summer to Lexington citizens. After all
, I pay taxes for the Lexington streets, but they do not
pay a car registration fee for W&L parking lots.

_ Sincerely,
Bill Chappell, ’94

A‘ Junior Class President

Scholar speaks up for program

To the Editors:

The Washington and Lee faculty will vote next
Monday on the proposed elimination of the Univer-
sity Scholars Program. Certain administrators and
faculty members feel the program no longer serves
the purpose for which it was created — to give
intellectually motivated students a chance to meet
and take courses outside the regular curriculum.

Some of the faculty contest that the quality of
students at Washington and Lee has so improved over
the past few years that the program no longer applies
to the needs of students, since all students are of an
equal level of intelligence.

Yet I feel it is necessary to examine this situation
a little closer. While University Scholars do not by
any means claim to possess intelligence superior to
that of other Washington and Lee students, they were
however chosen to participate in the program be-
cause of their intellectual motivation and eagerness
for learning. But does the present Washington and
Lee community as a whole provide an environment

conducive to intellectual thought, motivation, and
“curiosity? Perhaps, for some.

As a freshman last year, I remember the excite-
ment I felt when I left for college — I eagerly
anticipated opportunities to discuss and share ideas
with other individuals, both inside and outside the
classroom. Yet upon my arrival, 1 instead found
myself ridiculed for studying and for wanting to
study, and it seemed as though working as little as
possible to achieve one’s desired grade was the
primary goal.

I was admitted to the University Scholars Pro-
gram during the fall of my freshman year and since

Miller ’s treatment was unfair

‘Dear Editor:

The manner in which the SCC has expelled Marcus
Miller disgusts me and embarrasses Washington and
Lee University. Throughout my four years in Lexing-
ton the W&L community cultivated a special atmo-
sphere which placed a gentleman’s conduct before
distrust.

3 Mr. Miller’s actions this fall were both absolutely
honest and gentlemanly in nature, amounting to nei-
ther trespassing nor harassment. To conclude that
Mr. Miller’s conduct was unreasonable and intoler-
able the SCC had to abandon both common sense and
justice. They revealed their desire to condemn Mr.

Miller again for an incident last year that was of so
‘ 0

little substance that even a Lexington court dis-
missed it. _

What Mr. Miller has been expelled for is failing
to see that the SCC applies different standards of
behavior to different students and thus requires
certain students to “know their place.”

I, as many others, have known Marcus Miller to
be a true and honest friend for six years and I would
stack his moral character against that shown by the
members of the SCC any day. It is a shame that the
SCC represents Washington and Lee University in
this disgraceful fashion. 4

Paul C. Galanides ’90

Interviews and Photos

-‘By Jameson Leonardi

 

then have found encouragement from and conversa-
tion with other Scholars. While I do not suggest that
Washington and Lee is intellectually barren and void
of all thought-provoking activity, I submit that the

program gives exceptionally motivated students the '

opportunity to come together. _
To my knowledge, the majority of students here,
much to the dismay of the faculty, do not sit around
on weekends engaging indiscussions about lifeviews,
religion, etc. (OK, exception, Jim and Babli). The
University Scholars Program gives me that chance

and for me had really just begun with the seminar I '

took last spring.

I beseech the faculty, then, not to vote down the
program but instead to consider its continuation, for
even though it would gradually phase out, I would
hate for freshmen to miss this chance and for future
prospectives to be turned away by Washington and
Lee’s lack of a centralized honors program While I
recognize that problems exist within the program, I
feel that with considerable revision University Schol-
ars can survive. ‘ ’

Yes, its administration and structure need reorga-
nization, perhaps to create a more inclusive program
that would work with the honors programs of indi-
vidual departments. The scholars themselves need to
take an active role in planning, restructuring, and the
overall amending of the program.

If we are motivated enough to participate in the
University Scholars Program, I promise that we are
indeed motivated enough to aid in its reshaping and
continuation.

Thank you,
Allyson Gardner, ’94

Comment on Citron

To the Editor:

Although some in the Psychology Department
might be concerned with Mr. Citron’s debilitating
case of large-penis envy, the rest of us are not.

In the future, please ensure that Mr. -Citron’s wet
dreams remain in his mind, where they belong, and
not in print.

Distantly,
Christopher E. Vinyard, '93

TALKBACK

 

Women’s Forum

There will be a meeting of
Women’s Forum this Sunday, Nov.
1 at 7 p.m. in the Women’s Center.
Health educator Jan Kaufman will
lead a discussion entitled “Playing
it Safe,” sexual decision-making
and communication. Everyone is
welcome.

Lecture

Pam Fesler, Senior Reporter for
the Congressional Quartery, will
give a talk “The Results of the 1992
Elections: An Early Appraisal’ on
Monday, Nov. 9 at 4 p.m. in the
Commerce School room 327.

WLUR will present an album
feature every Thursday from 5-5:45
p.m. Listen to hear new albums
from the hottest rock artists. Signs
will be posted each week as to what
band will be highlighted.

The Black Law Students’ Asso-
ciation would like to invite the W&L
and Lexington/Buena Vista com-
munities to hear the Honorable
Judge Shackleford speak on Tues-
day, Nov. 10 at6 p.m. in Classroom
C of the Law School (Lewis Hall).
Reception to follow.

Film Society

The W&L Film Society is.

pleased to armounce its next pre-
sentation, “Hearts of Darkness”
(USA, 1991). Showings will be at
8:05 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 30 and
Saturday, Oct. 31 in the Trouba-
dour Cinema. As always, there is
no charge for admission.

Haunted House

On Halloween, the Lambda Chi
Alpha Fraternity and the Lexington
Police Dept. are co-sponsoring a
Haunted House for the children of
Lexington (ages 12and under). The
location will be 225 E; Nelson St.,
adjacent to the Spottswood Drive
entrance to the hospital. The
Haunted House will be open from
7-9 p.m. Admission is 50 cents and
goes to the United Way.

Amnesty

There will be an important Am-
nesty International meeting Tues-
day, Nov. 3 at 6:30p.m. in

Newcomb Hall. Everyone is wel- ‘

come.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturday nights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Live Drive
is also looking for volunteer driv-

ers. If interested call Melissa or
less at 464-4017.

Financial Aid

Students needing financial as-
sistance for Spring Tenn Abroad

, Programs should contact the Finan-

cial Aid Office immediately. For
those students who have not sub-
mitted a Financial Aid Form for
1992-93, the priority deadline for
submission for spring term assis-
tance is Nov. 2.

Phoneathon

The first week of Phoneathon is
Sunday, Nov.1 through Thursday,
Nov. 5. If you would like to call
alumni for the Annual Fund, please
contact one of your class agents. A
list of class agents can be found
outside of Carol Calkins’ office and
on the Kathekon board.

FBIS

Foreign Broadcast Information
Service is holding an information
session at 4 p.m. in room 114 on
Monday, Nov. 2. Students in all
majors are invited. FBIS hires spe-
cialists in foreign languages, jour-
nalism, social and political sciences,
international affairs and area stud-
ies, history, electrical engineering,
science and technology, communi-
cations and video, and technical

support.

Pub Board

The Publications board will meet
Monday at 8 p.m. in room 208 of

the University Center.

College Dems

There _will be a meeting of the
College Democrats this Sunday,
Nov. 1 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center GAme Room. For more in-
formation call 463-8984.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

For The Record

In the article titled “Get a taste of the real Hill” in the Oct. 22 issue of
the Phi, the courses required for the Washington Term Program should
have read Politics 101, 102 or 103. Also, the student to contact for more

information is senior Rob Burger.

In the article titled “EC denies ACLU funding...” in the Oct. 22 issue of
the Phi, the by-line should have read Francesca Kefalas.

In the article “Group to give business advice” in the Oct. 15 issue of the
Phi, the by-line should have read Jameson Leonardi.

In the article“Post office boxes restricted for safety” in the Sept. 24
issue of the Phi, the by-line should have read Tom Hespos.

 

What is the most terrifying sightyou can imagine?

P.J. Waicus, ’93, Moorestown,
NJ. —— “Bernie Porter and Graham
Taylor in Speedos.”

Mac Jennings, ’96, Burke, Va. —
— “Jerry Garcia‘s obituary.”

Lollie Sheehan, ’94, Savannah, Ga. and Abby Kane, ’94, Savannah, Ga.
— “Remn dancing naked on a table.”

....-.._-.._-.,._ ....-_-_.~-.1..- .*:.‘.'. -_-,-.-. -I,-.,;...-;.x .-.-_ - V ~.-;v..._~__ ~- —- - » -

Mark Marasciullo, 393, Dix Hills,
N.Y.-——“Roseanne Barr in a G-string.”

 

Anne-Michelle Langlois, ’95,
Gulfport, Miss. —“Clinton as presi-

dent.”

 

 

PAGE 4

hen women first arrived at Washington and
Lee in 1985, they were met by many dis-
gruntled upperclassmen wearing graphic t-
shirts that protested their presence. While
many agree there is still progress to be
made, few will disagree the attitude towards women at
W&L has changed dramatically in the past seven years.

The main reason W&L turned to coeducation was the
declining quality of the applicant pool the admissions ofﬁce
was seeing.

“Very few strong applicants were looking for an all-male
student body. Coeducation was the practical answer to
saving our academics,” said Associate Professor of Eco-
nomics John Gurm, who has been associated with W&L as
both a student and professor for 51 years.

In August 1985, Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer-Lamont, a psychologist with background in work-
ing with gifted women and career development, was hired
specifically to aid the transition of women on W&L’s
campus.

Schroer-Lamont was not to initiate any programs alone,
but rather to be a sounding board for the ideas of the
students.

The women at W&L strive to be equals with their male
peers.

“The biggest movement for women is for them to come
here and achieve academically, be elected to significant
positions, and party,” said Schroer-Larnont.

The admissions office quota seems to inﬂuence women’s
comparable academic performances as well as their chances
of obtaining student government ofﬁces. '

“The quota of 40 percent women versus 60 percent males
was made by the Board of Tnistees. The Board didn't want
to enlarge the size of the University but researched that our
male athletic program couldn’t function at its traditional
standards with less than 1000 males,” Guim said. “The
consequence of this limit is that the cutoff for females is
higher, thus their average GPA's are consistently higher.”

Students agree that the quota causes inequalities in the
classroom.

“It seems the girls’ statistics are a lot higher. It can be
aggravating. It seems like unfair competition because it’s
almost like two different standards,” junior J .B. Meek said.
“It ends up guys are competing with people who could have

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

FEATURES

y FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

ended up at Yale. Girls can be intimidating in the class-
room.”

“From what I’ve seen so far is that girls do a little more .

work in preparing for class. Maybe it’s because guys have
had a lot to do with fraternities lately,” freshman Les Borden
said.

The majority of students feel they are treated fairly
equally in the classroom.

“My professors treat us all the same. I haven’t found a
difference,” said freshman Ainsley Fisher.

“I’ve never had any experience with an unfair professor
and I’ve had a bunch of classes where I’m the only woman.
It hasn't made a difference,” senior Liz Randol said.

“The professors are all pretty fair. Deep down 1 get the
feeling the professors still feel like girls are something to
look at,” freshman Chrissy

CA Coed Future:

‘A rzd this if

the H0me—Ec0n0mz°cs

    
  

I building. . . .. ’

Donnelly said.

The prejudices that once faced
women nmning for office are no
longer abundant, women say.

“When I was a freshman, guys
would go up to women in my
class that were nmning for office
and tell them ‘Girls just don’t rim
for office here. It’s not appropri-
ate,”’ Randol said.

The quota seems to be a factor
in the success of women in ob-
taining ofﬁces.

“Many members of the
Women’s Forum feel the quota
is holding us back from serving
in leadership positions. We are
currently trying to ﬁnd out the
reasons it isn’t changed,” senior
and Women’s Forum President
Shannon Comer said.

The relationship"between
W&L students and nearby
women’s college students has
also been debated since coedu-
cation.

“The social situation before
women was unhealthy. The

From The Ring-tum Phi, Oct. 20, 1983

guests from women’s colleges

College Democrats
Proudly Support ’

People First
Clintonl Gore
'92

_come here thinking they’ll have

'1985]. And it has been a very

were treated badly by many too many. Coeducation has
brought much healthier conditions,” Gunn said.

“I would like to see a better relationship with the women,”
said Comer. “The term ‘road cheese’ is not supportive.
W&L is their only social outlet. 1 would like to have a place
for them to sleep and feel safe. We have not made too much
progress in getting the Women’s Center approved for this,
due to liabilities.”

Some female students don ’t wholeheartedly welcome
the presence of these out-of-town women.

“The women’s college students are pretty nice. I just
wish they'd go somewhere else to party,” said Fisher.

Some students say the dating scene for W&L women is
rough.

“For the most part, men don’t seem to have any respect
[for women’s college students]

'9

structure is male dominated and the fraternities are still so
strong. A lot of progress could be made. I would like to see
women have more voice on campus and in the student
government. The women’s activities need more funding,
and most colleges would have an active staff along with the
Women’s Center," said Comer. ’

The Women’s Forum would also like to see the return of
the Status of Women Committee. .

In 1988 a diverse group of male and female professors,
undergraduate students and law students investigated the
advancement of women on campus.

"‘They conducted a very thorough study. They planned
for the committee to meet every year, but it wasn’t done,”’
said Comer.

Not all students look forward to the permeation of these
programs. I

“The advent of women has brought this college closer to
the national norm. lhad planned to come toaschool thatwas
untouched. Feminism and political correctness are very
demeaning to this grand institution, ” Meek said. I

“Tradition makes W&L what it is. Women have opened
the doors to change and it just seems there is less and less of
the traditional W&L. But I don’t see single-sex education
as better than coeducational,” sophomore Ryan Boone said.

A conglomerate of coeducational studies from Yale,
Princeton, Davidson and other colleges that have undergone
coeducational adjustments show it takes about seven tog
eight years before women openly discuss changes with a
college’s coeducation program.

“We are ﬁnding our voices right on time. This year’s
freshmen feel more like that first class of women. I have
spent more time with them than other classes. They are
asking questions and venting their anger,” said Schroer-
Lamont. ' 0

“Women have brought so much to W&L. There is now
a total sense of well being and happiness. Women have
raised this school to a quality which nobody anticipated,”
said Gurm.

“It would be unrealistic to go to a single-sex college. Life
isn’t like that,” Donnelly said. “We need to learn to live
together.” ,

Editor's note: This is the ﬁrst of a two-part series about
W&L women. Next week's article focuses on Women’s
Forum.

and the women here have the
same prejudice. That doesn’t
apply for everyone, but tl1at’s a
tendency,” said Randol.

“I think W&L girls have a
huge chip on their shoulder when
it comes to women’s college stu-
dents,” Meek said. “W&L girls

the pick of the litter because of
the ratio and it’s a cold surprise
when they ﬁnd out there are four
significantly large girl schools
nearby.”

Men and women say the over-
all attitudes between the sexes on
campus have obviously under-
gone a change.

“There has been a deﬁnite
change in the attitude that males
have towards women [since

healthy change,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “However we aren’t
ﬁnished with the transition until
the attitude is not even an issue.”

“I personally have a problem
with the attitude between the

‘lAn_d then my adviser said, ‘The boys may be a bit curious at first  .

‘”" I////./ti 

 

¢  .

    

sexes at this school. The power

From The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 12, 1985

I

/

 

V

\.\'.\'()l'\CI\'(} IIII" CRIiI" (iI.()Ii.\I. I{Ql'I IIIIS .\(‘C()l',\"I‘.tltI' S()l'.\I) RI’.‘I'IRI"\l|i.\"I‘ I.\'\'IiS'I'I\'(L '

WE’VE PUT A NEW SPIN
ON INVESTING WITH TIAA-CREF -

t TIAA-CREF, our goal has always
been to make your retirement dollars
go farther. Now, they can go as far as
London, Frankfurt or Tokyo—or anywhere
else in the world where financial oppor-
tunities seem promising—with our new
CREF Global Equities Account.
TI'IE CREF GLOBAL EQIJITIES
ACCOUNT EXPANDS THE HORIZON

' FOR RETIREMENT SAVINGS.

The CREF Global Equities Account is
an actively-managed portfolio of both
foreign and domestic stocks selected for
diversity and growth potential. As part of
a wide range of annuity and investment
alternatives already offered by TIAA-CREF,
it can increase your ability to create a more
balanced, well-rounded retirement plan.
While returns may vary over time, the
CREF Global Equities Account is based
on CREF's already-existing strength
and the long-term approach to investing
that has made TIAA-CREF America's
preeminent pension organization.

WHEN IT COMES TO
FOREIGN HVVESTHVG, WE'RE
ON FAMILIAR GROUND.

We've been speaking the language of
foreign investing for nearly twenty years.
That 's when we pioneered investing pension
funds on an international level. All those

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it 3"

© I 992 Timber; Irmrmrirr am) A rinuil y l1J'.!'(F("MIl'(’Il/C‘I7‘[k¢( Rrliremcru‘ E4ui'Ii'z.r Fund

I_

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

years of research, market analysis and
cultivation of regional contacts have given
us special insight into the risks and rewards
of today's global marketplace. Q
DISCOVER MORE ABOUT OUR
NEW GLOBAL EQUITIES ACCOUNT.
The CREF Global Equities Account is
offered through your TIAA-CREF retire-
ment annuities, subject to the provisions of ‘
your employer's retirement plan. It is auto-

 

. . C
matically available for TIAA-CREF Supple-
mental Retirement Annuities (SRAs).

To find out more about the CREF
Global Equities Account or TIAA-CREF's
other annuity and investment alternatives,
send for our free brochure. Or call
1 800-842-2776. ,
You'll find that at TIAA-CREF, our '
world revolves around helping you build a
secure and rewarding future.
SEND FOR
OUR FREE BOOKLET

Tb. cmsr GbbalEquil‘le.rAccoun!-- '
A W/orl(7af0,npar!uni'ly and learn more
about this exciting new CREF Account.
Mail this coupon to: TI/\A'CREF.
Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue. New York.
NY l00l7. Or call I 800-842-2776.
Nimi((Plcase print)
/iJ()rr.r.r .
(‘Hy Smfr Zip Cmir
Iri.r/1'/ulimi (Full name)
T[[[( I)ii_y1i'Irir P/Mnr( )
TI/{A-(‘RI*.‘I~'Par!i1'i,miriI l_f‘yr.-', Suriul Srruri'I_v 33
D X».- El iv.» — — 0

CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. For more complete information,
including charges and expenses, call 1 800-842-2735. ext. 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

 

I

e Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

By JOYCE BAUITSTA‘
Phi Features Editor

. ram ghoulies and ghosties,
long Ieggetie beasties and
things that go bump in the
night. Good Lord deliver us.

— Invocation from the Scottish
rayerbook, circa 1600.

, I-Talloween traditionally marks the
time of the year when_the spirits of the
ead walk among the living.
According to some students these
strange occurrences are notabsent from
&L.
One student recalls a story that his

I’ told him. I

The student’s father arrived late to

I ear a speaker in Lee Chapel and the

nly seats available for him and his
wife were in the front row.

When he sat down he felt a nudge.

,. e sitting in the same spot General
' O rt

E. Lee sat during chapel ser-
ices.
“He told my mother to move over
3 - cause Lee signaled that he wanted to
' t there,” the student said.
Another story about Lee Chapel
ncems a man in

 

rm, -: i .  :-
Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

     

The Mlddleton House facade hints of stories old and events
unknown. Built In the mid-1700s, the Jefferson Street home Is said
to be haunted by several ghostly specters.

“I got the feeling that somebody
was trying to tell me something,” he
said.

Anne Wilson

;9thQ:entury dress. said some say that
“As the story Lee’s wife can be
,. s,” Professor of heard roaming the
I, istory Taylor The statue ofCyrus porch in her wheel-
anders said, “a Mccormick is also chair.
oman was ac- th b- t f “My daughter
: osted by a man in e S“ -Iec 0 wasonceintheroom
ietiteentutydxessin strange campus between the study
I e aprons of the events_ A senior Stu. and the music room
~ ge.” d t . d h d the night before the
1 Even the Lee en Sal_ S e an anniversaiyofLee’s
'~ ouseisnotimmune some friends were death and felt a
2 mits share of tall ' whirlwind sweepby
es. out one foggy night her,” Anne said.

“Che first mom-
g that I took resi-
ence in Lee House
went for a jog and
hen I came back I
as locked out,”
niversityPresident
hid). Wilson said.
Also, the university telephone
.- stem in the house went down and the
'1 ts went off for his first 24 hours as

move.

in front of the chapel
and saw the statue

“Ever since then
she’s been a little
sensitive to the no-
tion of ghosts.”

Payne Hall is an-
other campus build-
ing that has its share
of stories. ,

“I had ameeting in Payne one night.
We turned out the lights and continued
to talk outside,” one sophomore stu-

told us to turn out the lights. We thought

FEATURES

pooks haunt Lexington

. hosts and ghouls lurk in the dark corners of W&L, VMI and the town“

 

PAGE 5

 

ghosts lurk at the Virginia Militar
Institute. -

“It is told in Lexington that once,”
Knox wrote, “soon after New Market
Day, two impressionable ladies who
were walking at dusk past Sir Moses
Ezekiel’s superb statue of ‘Virginia
Mourning Her Dead,’ thatbroods above
the graves of six of the seven cadets
who died in the battle or later because

' of their wounds, told their friends that
they heard the statue crying. and saw
real tears on her bronzeface.”

According to Knox’ s book, Lexing-
ton homes have their share of ghosts.

“When the oak leaves rattle and
winter's chilly ﬁngers creep along the
spine, Lexington ghosts come out of
their hiding,” Knox wrote.

Her book recounts ghost stories
collected from over the years and pub-
lished in local periodicals.

Lon g-time Lexington resident Jack
Roberson lives in the allegedly haunted
Middleton House on Jefferson Street,
next to Norman E. Coffey Furniture.

“Legend has it that my house is full
of ghosts,” Roberson said. “I’ve lived
here 70 years and I’ve never seen one.”

it was odd but did it. According to the
He locked the door book, a young girl
behind us.” has been seen comb-

The next day the ing her hair in an up-
security guard told stairs window and a

the student that after

 

slave couple lurks

checkingthe doors of through the halls of
Lee Chapel, another the home.
guard had double- “I think many of
checked the doors of the stories about my
Payne and they were house were the re-
unlocked and the sult of amentally ill
lights were on. child that used tolive
The statue of here,” Roberson

Cyms McCormick is also
the subject of strange
campus events.
A senior student said
she and some friends
were out one foggy
night in front of the
chapel and saw the
statue move. »
“It looked as if it was
rocking on its heels,” she
said. “The funniest thing is that
we weren’t even drunk.”
According to The Gentle Ghosts, a

    
  
 
  
 
   

iversity president. dent  “Security then came by and . book by Anne McCorkle Knox, some
I
Bill N ave saved these
0

    
 

kids from drowning,

but he’s not '

a lifeguard.

° Verleeta W/ooten found

several

« I but she’s not

These are

teachers. But

9 \

“ an astronomer.
A

5 O

5

I

I

C .‘

I

C

7
. , they re

   
  

to the kids they reach,

heroes .

new stars,

‘ BE A TEACHER.

J
- BE

A HERO.

* Call l-800-45-TEACH .

D , A Public Service of
0 5 9. ‘rm: Publication

_ Photos: Robin Sachs

Reach forAthe Power
1 lJ[1\J11

jlX1'IC~X_

' said.
Roberson said sev-
eral people have also
seen a woman in a red
dress.
“When the papers
got wind of the sto-
ries,” he said, “report-
ers wouldn’t come
close to the house.”
Regardless of the sto-
ries Roberson remains a dis-
believer in the supernatural.
“I don't believe in ghosts,” he said.
“They are simply mental projections.”

 
    
 
   
  
 
  

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Season

5 Electronic signal

9 Disfigure
13 Jai -
14 Opera singer
Gluck
15 Fur piece
16 Repeat
18 Domesticates

-19 Kickoff prop

20 Paris subway

21 Put up

22 Strong wind

23 Rope for a
vaquero

25 School break

28 Old
MacDonald's
home

29 Engine part

32 Sacred images

33 Biblical prophet

34 Genetic letters

35 Weighty work

36 Old Nick

38 Cut of meat

39 Tavern drink

40 Locale

41 Of a certain
country: pref.

42 Collection

.43 Martial and fine

44 The — of two
evils .

45 Laws partner

47 Season

48 Recorded

50 Violin maker of
old

52 Modern: pref.

55 Wipe out

56 Confess

58 Stair feature

59 Keep —- on
(watch)

60 Different

61 "Two Years
Before the —"

62 RBI, e.g.

63 Bullfight cheers

DOWN

1 Datum

2 Succulent plant

3 Brain or duck
start

 

@1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

4 Fib
5 Hard rolls
6 Thrill
7 Moslem prince
8 Wide view
9 Launch
10 Find
11 Actor Guinness
12 Take a break
15 Generates
vapor

. 17 stockpile

22 Dancer Kelly
24 Press
25 Hayworth and
Moreno
26 French school
27 Occur
28 Goddesses of
desﬁny
30 Fragrant herb
31 Grand house
36 Father
37 Entices
38 "— For Life“
40 Gloomier
41 Souvenir

 

>10/29/92

Last week's answers:

44 Final
46 Adjust the alarm 52 Actress Carter
47 Brazilian dance 53 Bed of roses

51 Castle defense

48 Jail sentence
49 Opera solo

54 Persons
57 Lion

Morning Mag (Rock) - Monday-Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.

Jazz - Monday, 9 a.m.-1la.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-l 1 :30 a.m.
AM Overture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.
Inspirational - Thursday, 9 a.m.-ll a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.
Public Affairs -Monday through Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
Country - Monday through Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.

Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
Rock - Wednesday through Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.

Breakthrough Rock - Monday through Friday, 3:30 p.m.—5 :30 p.m.
Classical Showcase - Monday through Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.
Third Ear - Monday through Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

THE OFFICE OF CAREER PLANNING
AND PLACEMENT
AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
INVITES YOU TO ATTEND THE

NINTH ANNUAL
MINORITY CAREER DAY

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, I992
OMNI HOTEL
DOWNTOWN CHARLOTTESVILLE

 

 

  
  
   
    
 
 

MEET I40 EMPLOYERS FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY.

JOIN MINORITY STUDENTS FROM 50 COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES IN VIRGINIA AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

REGISTER THROUGH YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OR
CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE.

BRING MULTIPLE COPIES OF YOUR RESUMEI

Vote in Friday's Mock Election
8 am. - 4 p.m. outside the Co-op

Contact presents

  

G.Gordon Liddy

Tonight

8 p.m. in Lee Chapel

 
  

I I
ciudiotronics
AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARANTZ
KEF CWD _
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

’ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

‘ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

‘ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
‘ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

' MASTER CARD / VISAI DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden 8: Starkey Roads 1
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

You could
‘ own this
space.
Call Benji at
463-8581

 

 
   

   
  

 ‘-.4.

vuav-‘VA...-;r. A , .

 Staff Writer

  when Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi
Epsilon move into their new houses in

‘Davidson Park next fall, Washington

and Lee's three-year, $13 million game
' of fraternity house musical chairs will
ﬁnally be over.

But the administration is still play-
ing with the possibilities of what to do
with_ the old Sigma Chi, Sigma Phi
Epsilon and Kappa Sigma houses.

According to Dean of Students

9 David Howison, Sigma Chi’s proxim-
. ity to campus makes it ideal for admin-
‘ istrative uses. é‘
‘ “[What to do with] Sigma Chi is the
, priority decision,'f Howison said.
“We're definitely’ going to use that
space to support the students in some
way.”
‘ 7 Howisonsaid he hopes the house
‘ will hold administrative offices that
serve students, like the Career Devel-
. opment and Placement Office. Sigma
‘Chi couldalso be the home for some
, _st1_rde_nt offices currently in the Univer-

S sity "Center, or a combination of stu-'

dent and administrative offices,
Howison said.“ ' v‘
 '-gﬂowison said the house will deﬁ-
nitely not be used as a residence.

A decision probably will be made
toward the end of winter term, Howison

said, so renovations can begin as soon
as the Sigma Chis move out in June.

Capital Planning Assistant Frank
Parsons said construction crews won’t
have to add restrooms, party rooms or
kitchen facilities to the house, which
makes administrative renovation
cheaper than Fraternity Renaissance.

“[Sigma Chi] will need more than a
touch up and paint up job,” Parsons
said. “But it’ll cost substantially less
than the $500,000 and $600,000 ex-
penses in Fraternity Renaissance.”

Parsons said the renovations may
not have to be done with concern for
durability, since fraternity men won't
be living in the house.

A “The administration won’t be rest- .
mg on the wash basins,” Parsons said.

“These things go on in fraternities——-
we have to nail [sinks] to the wall for
[fratemities].”

Parsons said the cost of renovations
will depend on whether Buildings and
Grounds can handle the magnitude of
the project. He said the money for the
renovations will come from allocations
in the Capital Projects budget, which
must be approved by the Board of
Tnrstees.

Howison said Associate Dean of
the College W. Lad Sessions is cur-

« rently living in the old Kappa Sigma

house on Washington Street, but the
house will become Outing Club head-
quarters by winter term. Next fall,

‘ NEWS

  juggles fraternity houses

Outing Club members will be able to
live there, in an arrangement similar to
that of the International House.

Parsons said the university is lim-
ited in its choices for the future of the
Sig Ep house because of its remoteness
from campus. He said it will either be
sold for residential use or renovated
for faculty apartments.

Howison said that it is unlikely that
W&L will spend much money on the
house and that it will probably be sold.

“Personally, I’d like to see some
entrepreneur make it into a bed-and-

breakfast,” Howison said.

When uses are found for Sigma Chi
and Sig Ep, the end of fraternity reno-
vations will be in sight. The only re-
maining unfrnished house is Delta Tau
Delta, which will begin renovation
within the month and should be fin-
ished by September 1993.

The Kappa Alpha house was sched-
uled to be open in September. KA
members should move in this January.
The new Sigma Chi and Sig Ep houses
are on schedule, and will be ready for
occupancy by the beginning of the next
school year, Parsons said.

Fraternity Renaissance began in the
spring of 1990 with renovations to
Sigma AlphaEpsilonand will end with
the completion of the Delt house in the
fall of 1993, Parsons said. He said the
14-house project cost W&L about $13
million.

:,-..,

Family ties

 

victory over-Sewanee.

  

Approximately 2,400 parents and
guests crowded onto the Washing-
.ton and Lee campus for last
' weekend's Parents Weekend tes-
tivitles. Above, families lunch and
socialize on the lawn Saturday at-

‘ ternoon. At right, excited W&L tans
cheer the Generals on to a 17-16

 

Photos by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

IIQIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllll-;

  

B
D

ST

 FUN ISER

 

9 up to $1.5!!! In just one week
sponsoring a marketing program
for a Fortune 5!!) Company.

NO‘ SALES
o _i NO INVESTMENT
o BUILD TEAM WORK
q , HAVE rum

   
 

  

    
 

   

ON CAMPUS!

Your student organization can earn

E
E
E
=
E
ti-"

 . . Oil Change, Filter, & Lube

    $15.95

Includes up to 5 quarts motor oil, new oil ﬁlter,
lube, check ﬂuid levels, belts and hoses,
tires guaged, and exhaust system checked.

' ‘ '  f j_No appointment necessary.

Tires, Exhaust work done.
Minor tune-up available from $26.

Rudell’s Service Center
 1 ‘_ I T. 207 N. Main
 (corner of Main and Massie)

‘ IllfllilﬂilﬂljllllllllillllililllﬁllllllllllIllllllllIﬂllllllllllmﬂﬂllIllllllllllllllIIIlll!'|IIlIlllllllllllllﬂllIlllllllllll?

    
  
  

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIllllIIIlllIllIllIllIIIIllIIIIIlllllIllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIlI|||||IllI|lII|I||l

  
  
 
 

130 S. Main St.

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.- Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29, 199

  

' Photo b Le Allen, The R/ng-tu Phi

Kappa Alpha members should be ready to move in by January.’

W&L doctors hope to prevent-
measles outbreak on campus_

. KA was scheduled to be completed in September.

By JEANNE BRIGGS

Phi Contributing Writer

A reported case of measles at Clinch Valley Community
College in southwest Virginia has prompted Washington
and Lee’s Student Health Services to make sure students

have gotten all their shots.

Dr. Jane Horton, director of the student health center,
said children receive measles vaccinations when they are 1
year old, but in 1989 the Advisory Committee on Immuni-
zation Practices, the American Academy of Pediatrics and
the American College Health Association reported that the

immunization wears off.

For this reason, Horton said doctors are now recom-
mending a second booster vaccination one month after the
initial vaccination. Current juniors and seniors were not
required to receive a second» vaccination upon entering
W&L, but freshmen and sophomores were.

Doctors at the health center are checking studentrecords
 for students who have not received the second vaccination,
Horton said. .. . . I i

When the health center discovers a student who has not
received the second immunization, a letter is sent home and
the student is asked to come in and receive the immuniza-
tion. Ifthe student is not properly immunized, he or she will

Phi Delt parents question punishmen

Ci From PHI DELT, page 1

left people with question marks. It was
a major disappointment that the house
corporation wasn’t there.”

Phi Delt parent Frank Surface said
he was pleased that Atkins and Howison
made the effort to talk to parents about
the situation, but said he still thought
the punishments were too harsh for the
crime.

“I thought it was a fair exchange of
ideas,” Surface said. “There was a lot
of discussion about severity. Parents
thought the punishment was not appro-
priate for the event, and that an entire
frat was punished for the act of maybe
a single person. ”

Howison said the Student Affairs
Committee, which voted to support the
house corporation’s original punish-
ment, would not have to approve any
revision in the sanctions.

463-7969

F

ADOPTION OPTION 1
Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant.
We have college degrees; and we both work in education
Our hobbies are music, golf, and church activities.
If you wish to talk with us, please call
1-800-296-2367

it Read the Phi.

Do You Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and MasterCard®
credit (2rds.."ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST ORES—TUITiON——ENT ERTAI NM ENT-
EMERGENCY O\SH—-'l‘lCKE'IS—RESTAURANl‘S—-
HO'I‘ELS—MOTEl.S—GAS-—CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!‘

eumv|“‘°‘ .
‘encpﬂ No credit
“5el'V::$’;¢o  iio security deposit!
1
6% 5°.‘ Approval absolutely guaranteed so

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

effectiveness.

be prevented from registering for winter term.
Letters were sent home over the summer to all sttllenq
who had not received the immunization, but there are stil
some students who have not acted on that informatio.
according to Horton. ,
Horton said any student who is unsure if he has receive
the vaccination should visit the inﬁrrnary and discuss ht
immunization record with a doctor. Doctors are availab
weekdays from 8 to 10 a.m. and from 3 to 5:30 pm;
Measles is the most serious of common childhood d’
eases, according to an infomration sheet published by
health center. It causes a rash, high fever, cough, and
nose, and can result in pneumonia, ear infections or e
cephalitis, an inﬂammation of the brain. Although thou-
of as a childhood disease, measles also afﬂicts adults.
“It is much more serious than people think,” Hortog sa' ~
Horton said 14 cases of measles have been reported .
Virginia this year. Last year, there were 29 cases report _ I
The health center has vaccinated 15 students this ye '
Horton said that when a case of measles is reported 0
college campus,.the campus community must he quara
tined and all intramural sports canceled.
Horton also said any student can receivea vaccipati -
against inﬂuenza. The vaccine reduces chances of catchi
the flu and is administered in November for maximu

   
  
  
 
   
     
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  

Freshman I
officers
elected

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Contributing Writer

The freshman class elected Da
Mahoney president in anrn-offtle
tion Oct. 22.

Mahoney defeated Matthe
Mazzucchi 179-158 with 16 studen
not voting. '

Mahoney said he hopes to ena
promises he rrrade during his carnpaig
“I plan for us to work together t
strengthen our class. Most of the cl ~
seems to be breaking up into fratemi
ties and other groups and I want to se
unity to create a community,” he sai -

Madeline White was elected clas
vice, president with 184 votes, co
pared to 157 for her opponent Prgstog
Miller. Twelve people did not vote.

‘ ‘I look forward to helping to rep -
sent my class and to being fair an
equitable in the Student Condu
Committee,”White said.

Peter Agelasto will be the freshmar
Executive Committee representotiv ~
Agelasto defeated Todd Bryan 171
165, with 17 students not voting. ‘

“I’m very excited to be elected,’
Agelasto said. “I think I’ll do a goo

job.’ ’

    

“I would support the house corpora-
tion and their right to take action,”
Howison said. “The only reason SAC
would act was if the status of Phi Delta
Theta at this campus was at stake. I
don’t think it is.”

Phi Delt Vice President Nick An-

 
 
   
   
   

thony said the meeting was beneﬁci
to the administration, the parents, .t
the fratemity. -

“I think the overall attitude of t.
house is changing,” Anthony said.
think we’ve realized our mistakfs - «
can go on from here.” ‘

 

Red Cross °

 
     

4

E,
-

 
   
 

 

 

' STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 17924. Pl.AilTAlI0ii.FL 3331-3 -"
I I
   twantvrsAo/MAs'rERcARDe Credit , :a
3 Cards. Enclosed llnd 85 which is 100% refundable if not I 5
3 approved immediately. I
I u
I NAME N
: ADDRESS . : '
: cmr STATE ..._ZIP _ I,
, PHONE   s.s.# 
I SIGNATURE   ' I»
' NOTE: Mastacnrd is I registered tndenark d Masteﬁhrd lntematloml. Inc l.
I Visa is a tegistetur tndennrk urvrsx usA. int: and visit tmemauonar g I
' 5""‘°=’ *"°°"“°'* - 100°/e GUARANTEED! I’
I

 

 

._€UBED  


..-ii

  

The Rlng-tum Phl, October 29, 1992

 

ANNIVERSARY SALE

  Harrisfeetr

 

q SELECTED
VARIETIES

 
 

U.S.D.A. CHOICE 

HILLSHIRE FARMS-LUNCHEON MEATS .  L»  ‘

 ."

EF I T“

 
  
 
     
    
 

LB.

- CALIFORNIA LARGE
BROCCOLI

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

  
  

REDUCED
PRICE

 

STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
‘it COURTESY CARD.

HEIIISTBGIBI

YOUR, NAME
YOUR ADDRESS
YOUR CITY. STATE

x/x oi/oi/oi
1111111

 

gr ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL

I . CHECKS AT OVER 134 ,

r HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN

. GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

I‘ TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
COUPON AND SAVE.

‘II

I

. VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON
" $1 00 OFF
I . 0 I
I I

ANY $3.00 OR MORE
PURCHASE IN OUR I

Ll.

. ‘I DELI-BAKEY DEPARTMENT I

| THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. |
t LIMIT ONE coupon PER. FAMILY PER VISIT
( I OFFER eooo ocr. 2a THRU NOV. 3, I992 I

'0 coupon DE” I
cl I-L‘l’J"E Ilarrisfeeiei I
PLU 2068

,L___________

I-IARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

VALUABLE HARRIS TEETER coupon
BUY ONE I6 OZ. PKG. OF LOUIS RICH
TURKEY FRAIIIKS

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE

 rRigis!

This Coupon May Not Be Re oduced. I.imit One
Cou ii Per Fomil , Per isit With Minimum
Purc se of $I0.0U. Offer tober 28,
Thru November 3, 1992.

CV PQEN 
R

L__________._..I

VAUABLE HARRIS TEETER COUPON
sur ONE 6 oz. BAG (SELECTED VARIETIES)
EAGLE CHI

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE

I-‘RE "I

» This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. Limit One
Cou n Per Fomi , Per Visit With Minimum

seoI$I0. . OIterGoodOctober 28,
Thru Nvr 3, I992.

IE. IE’

PLU 21 24
MEAT

Purc

   
  

PLU 2087
GROCERY E

c°k’  Ettltllll I :91 I
'
L — j Z : 2 2 _ 2 2 2 2 J

VALUABLE HARRIS TEETER COUPON
suv our ROLL $8.7 so. FTEOF DELTA

PAPE TOW LS

AT REGULAR PRICE AND GET ONE

FREE.’

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. limit One

Coupon Per Famga, Per Visit With Minimum

Purc use of $I0. . Offer Good October 28,
Thru November 3, I992.

1
_,<
#

I.-.4

PLU 2091

3720
NFS GROCERY E

cou N I‘
VAL E I
ﬂ Iiarrisfeeier

L___________.I

; .Pri'ces Effective Throug

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday October 28 Through

h November 3, I992

esdo

, November 3, J 992. In Lexington Stomc

. OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None $oId To eaiers. We GIod:/ Accept IGULI ... I \. ...— stomps

 

PAGE 1

5

PhotobyJamoaonT II " ,nnnng-rum" nu‘

Wilson Moore prepares to make like Superman and leap a pile or players on his way to another nloo
gain. Moore finished with 52 yards rushing and scord both of W&L’: TDS. I

W&L wins a squeaker, 17-16

Ci From SHOCKER, page 8 ,

stopping Cravens when they had to, and it eventually paid
off.

With a little more than nine minutes left in this battle
Sewanee faced a second and 14 as a result of a holding
penalty. Young ’s replacement, Robbie Lyle tried to get it all
in one play and Newman makes him pay.

Newman stepped in front of the intended receiver and
picked off it off. He returned the ball to the Tigers’ 40.

The Generals got the big break they needed and with 9:07
left, and down by one, they had a shot at a major upset.

At this point, Fallon still wanted the seven points.

“I only go for the ﬁeld goal when faced with it and that’s
all we got left.” _

On the first two plays, Moore picked up 14 and put the
Generals at the Tigers’ 25. Steiner hit Hodges for four, then
Moore for four. On third and two, Mason tries to go over left
side but is dropped just about a half-a-yard short.

Fallon called on freshman Drew Thomas to try a 34-yard
ﬁeld goal. By now, most of the 5,680 spectators were on
their feet.

Sewanee called a timeout to try and “ice" Thomas.

Finally, the teams lined up for the kick. Thomas had
already had one kick blocked late in the first half, this was
for the lead.

The ball was snapped, Steiner set it and Thomas kicked

it.

A Sewanee defender came flying in from the right side
and got hisftngertips on the ball,'but to no’ avail. V E

The ball sailed through the uprights and the Generals led
17-16. ‘

There was still six minutes to go, though, and Fallon 1
knew it. Lyle led the Tigers to the Generals’ 20 and that's
where W&L held.

  

  
 
  

  

  

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

Call Us
and Keep

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////g ooaamw R,_w_“¢¢.

/ ¢ HEATWAVE VACATIONS
g SPRING BREAK I993

‘ ~ _ g 'I‘he best rates at the biggest
O Q coinmissions. For more liifuniuton,
g Call800-395-WAVE
/ .
c ‘ /
. Ladiesv Shoes, Clothing 3 391353 Fgpzpaigqr.
and Accessories g 7M,”°",.,l,,.,g,°°'.“ol; 91:”. .3?‘
03 463-5988 / Remode ‘in _ . VII
% f_3e::;,g$:_  24450 (7 I g Now and in Spring! No pets

ﬂ

Crammin g.

On three plays, the Tigers gained ﬁve yards. Thatbrought
on another freshman place kicker, Jon Knowles. to give the
lead back to Sewanee.

Fallon said his ﬁnal thoughts before the kick were of
something he said to assistant coach Jeff Stickley.

V“I was walking by Sticltley and said ‘Damn, I’d hate to
lose this way’.”

The clock continued to run and it was now under a
minute. ' ‘

Knowles lined up the 37-yarder. Fifty seconds to go.

The center snappedthebalmheholderplacedit. Knowles
kicked it. ' ‘

It stayed in the air for an eternity. It sailed towards the
uprights, and sailed past them, wide to the right. By about a
foot.

Somewhere, somehow, Scott Norwood was empnthizing
with Knowles.

The Generals’ sidelines went crazy, joined in unison by
the crowd. The most exciting game in years came to a
fantastic finish.

Steiner and Mason led the Generals’ offense. Steiner
finished the day 15-for-22 for 117 yards and one TD.
Mason’s numbers were 97 yards on 19 carries.

The one mind-boggling stat was registered by Sewanee’:
star back. Carl Cravens was involved in 43 of Sewanee‘s6'I
offensive plays, and accounted for 213 of their 291 total
yards. After the game his father said he was whipped and
totally exhausted.

Now the Generals move on to take on Bridgewnter. a
team W&L has not beaten the Eagles since 1988. A fact
Coach Fallon is well aware of.

“Not a kid on this team has ever beaten Bridgewater.
They've thrashedusharderphysicallyaridonthesooreboard
more than any other ODAC team. 7

“We’re tired of losing to them."

  

      

1 .W'il tenns.
W war

TYLIST

Form at Mariano‘:

GREEKS 8t CLUBS

RAISEA COOL
‘I000.

IN JUSTONEWEEKI
PLUS‘lII)0FOR'l'HE
MEMBERWHOCALLS!
Noobligation. Nocost.
YouaIsogetnFREE
HEADPKONERADIO

I-um-It-s
1-soo.932.os2a,iixtss J

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,
delivered hot and fast to your door.

ﬂ%

-Hut.

Have
a safe

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!
© 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY

Umihdddvsryaroa

Student Special

and happy
Halloween.

.l

Lambda Chi/
Lexington Police

Annual
Haunted House

WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

I offer expires 12-18-92

I
I
I
E 2 pizzas for the price of 1
I
I
I

%

~IIut.

7-9 p.m.
225 E. Nelson St.

6 1989 Pizza Hut. Inc. Our drivers carry no more than 320.

1/20 cent cash rodenptton value.

K Stﬂygianu W p.

 

 

Last Week:

Football- W&L 17,Sewanee 16 (4-2)
MSoc- W&L 3, H-SC 0 (7-7)
WSoc- W&L 4,Hollins 0 (5-10)

VB- Hollins 3,W&L 2 (13-13)

CC- (W) 1st at W&L Invit.
CC-(M) 2nd at W&L Invit.

PAGE 8

S

Ellie iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

 

” This Week

Football- at Bridgewater 10/31

WP- Southern Champs. at H-SC 10/31-1
MSoc- at Va. Wesleyan vs. R-MC 10/30
WSoc- at Ashland vs. R-MC 10/30

CC- (W) at EMC; (M) at H-SC & EMC

K

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

OCTOBER 29, 1992

Men’s soccer 1
reaches semis

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men's
soccer team advanced to the senii-ﬁ-
nals of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference with a 3-0 blanking of
Hampden-Sydney College Tuesday.

The Generals will face Randolph-
Macon College on Friday as the ODAC
Final Four travel to the campus of host
Virginia Wesleyan.

Senior Michael Hill scored the first
goal, which was all the Generals
needed.

Senior Reid Murphy scored twice,
giving him eight on the season.

Murphy, atri-captain, has scored 30
goals in his career, which places him
among the top goal-scorers in W&L
history. In the three game winning
streak, Murphy has scored ﬁve goals
and assisted on three. The Generals’
career goals record is 38, set by Scott
Fechany (1965-68).

Washington and Lee lost to
Randolph-Macon in their first meeting
this season, 1-0. The Yellow Jackets
have one of the premier goaltenders in
the conference, Rick Wilcox.

However, W&L has scored an un-
believable 20 goals in their past three
games. The team had only produced 14
goals in their first 11 games while
allowing 20.

But they annihilated Bridgewater
9-0 and Lynchburg 8-0 in consecutive
contests.

“We’re just pulling it all together,"
said junior Dan Rhodes. “[Bridgewater
and Lynchburg] weren't top teams, but
we've been moving the ball around

real well.”

Bridgewater was fielding its ﬁrst
intercollegiate soccer team since 1942.
As for Lynchburg, who W&L outshot
42-2, the Hornets’ coach resigned last
week and several of their key players
missed the game with a suspension.

Generals assistant coach John Bur-
gess said they handled Harnpden-
Sydney fairly easily.

“We seem to match up against them
well,” said Burgess.

The game was the second time in
which the Generals shutout H-SC on
the road. They beat the Tigers 2-0 three
weeks ago.

“We deﬁnitely played real well, but
not great,” Burgess said. “We still
haven't hit our peak.”

Burgess said he and head coach
Rolf Pirariian feel that the team has yet
to play up to its potential, but anything
can happen in the playoffs.

Rhodes believes the team hasasolid
chance against Randolph-Macon.

“I’d much rather face [R-MC] than
Virginia Wesleyan," he said. Va.
Wesleyan has knocked the Generals
out of the ODAC Tournament the past
two years.

"They're real good,” said senior
Mike Mitchem, “but our confidence is
really high right now. We’ll give them
a game.”

Mitchem, a senior tri-captain, is
one assist short of tying the W&L ca-
reer assist record. He recorded his 21st
against Harnpden-Sydney.

Burgess said that in the tournament
anything can happen.

“[On winning the title] We have to
get there first, but in the playoffs who
knows what can happen.”

Women advance to next
round in ODAC tourney

By Jusrm MCNAUL1.
Phi Staff Writer

The Generals were solid gold in
Tuesday’ s Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference quarterfinal, defeating
Lynchburg 4-0, earning a date with
regular-season champion Randolph-
Macon College.

R-MC enters Friday’s game in
Ashland, Va. with a 14-2 record, hav-
ing defeated the Generals 3-1 in Sep-
tember. The fourth-seeded Generals’
10 losses are the most in their ﬁve-year
history.

Head coach Jan Hathom thinks the
Generals (5-10) have arealistic chance
to win the ODAC tournament.

“We're as good as Randolph-Ma-
con, we just need to prove it,” she said.

Tuesday’s drubbing of Lynchburg,
coupled with a strong second-half rally
in Satiirday’s4-2loss to regional power
Messiah, supports Hatliom’s conﬁ-
dence in the team.

The defense has been strong all sea-
son while the offense has sputtered,
scoringonlyninetimesinit’slast twelve
games.

Junior Aspen Yawars opened the
scoring with a goal on a free kick from
more than 30 yards out.

Yawars’ first goal of the season was
the early goal the Generals have lacked
all season long.

"The early goal was the difference,
so that we just played and we didn’t
worry,” said Hathom.

Sophomore Anne Spniill caught fire

in the second half.

Spniill sparked the rout with her
third goal of the season, opening a 2-0
lead. ‘

, Spruill chipped in her second goal
from six yards out, it was 3-0.

Sophomore Jenny Lynch completed
the scoring with two minutes left in the
game. it

Junior Kate Stimeling notched her
second shutout in three games, aided
by junior Allison Lewis’s strong play

* at sweeper.

The Generals knew they were im-
proving after the second half of their
game against Messiah.

After spotting Messiah a three-goal
lead, the Generals picked up the tempo
and played much of the second half.

Junior Angie Cairington made the

score 3-1 on a penalty kick. She also ,

added the Generals second goal a few
minutes later.

Carrington leads the Generals ’ scor-
ers with ﬁve goals.

The goal closed the gap to 3-2, but
W&L couldn’t muster a tie the game
and Messiah scored with two minutes
remaining.

But the Generals couldn’t come any
closer, and lost a tough one, 3-2.

The second half electiiﬁed the Far-
ents Weekend crowd and excited
Hathom.

“Even an hour after the game, I felt
like we had won,” she said. “I don’t
know if the kids understand the magni-
tude of what we did.”

Tuesday’s win shows they did.

w

By SEAN O’RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

The Generals’ football game
against the University of the South
epitomized the way football should
be played.

Football purists were in their
glory after Saturday's game. It had
everything a great game is supposed
to have: big offensive plays, great
defense, few mistakes and its out-
come was decided in the ﬁnal minute
of play.

Both teams played at such a high
level that the W&L faithful didn’t
do their usual halftime split. Now
you know the game had to be good.

Sewanee was 5-0 entering the
contest and had an offense which
featured a nationally-ranked quar-
terback and running back. Russ
Young was in the top 10 in comple-
tion efﬁciency; Carl Cravens was
among the nation’s leaders with an
average of 130 yards rushing per
game.

The Generals’ defense would be
under the gun from the get-go, and
they responded with big-time play.

Sewanee opened the game at their
own 30 and Young gave the Gener-
als a preview of what they might
face the entire afternoon on the ﬁrst
play.

Young rolled to his right and let
go, on the full run, with a forty-yard
bomb down the right side.

W&L freshman corner back
Graig Fantuzzi had a better beat on
the ball than the receiver, and was
able to knock it down.

Head coach Gary Fallon said
the secondary played an excellent
game and the difference was in the

team’s nhilosonhv._
“They were going to the foot-

ball,” said Fallon. “Before we’d let
teams have completions in front of
us and then we’d hit them.

“This time we played aggressive
and got some good knock downs.”

On the second play of the game,
Young overthrew his intended re-
ceiver and that set-up third and 10.

The Tigers then looked to their
main offensive weapon, Cravens.
He took an inside hand—off and raced
up the middle for a pick-up of 15
and a first down. The Tigers would
be successful on all three third downs
they faced on this drive.

Sewanee moved down the ﬁeld
on the strength of Cravens’ nmning,
and a big 16-yard completion from
Young to James Spriggs at the Gen-
erals’ four. Cravensscored a sweep
to the left on the next play.

The Generals started their ﬁrst
drivefrom their own 35, and it would
set the tone for the rest of the after-
noon.

The Generals marched down the
ﬁeld by mixing in run and pass, and
they took what Sewanee’s defense
would give them.

The Generals also had great suc-
cess on third down. Geren Steiner
hit Tommy Mason for seven on a
third and ﬁve; on third and one,
Steiner picked up two; on third and
three, Steiner hit Bob Ehret, who
made a great leaping catch, for 10;
on the fourth third down, Steiner
completed a 10-yarder to Hayne

Hodges which set up a ﬁrst and

Volleyball readies for ODACs

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

The dank lights of the Warner Cen-
ter afforded the Washington and Lee
volleyball team little solace as they left
the court, dejected, after a tough ﬁve-
game loss to Hollins College.

The loss in their ﬁnal regular-sea-
son contest, took some of the luster off
an outstanding year for the volleyball
team, but not much."

A less talented Hollins team simply
managed to hold on throughout the
match, then capitalize on W&L mis-
takes when they presented themselves.

W&L won the first game easily,
perhaps too easily, 15-4. The Generals
suffered a big blow early in the game.
Sophomore stand-outJenriiferGarrigus
injured her ankle during the third point
of the match. Her loss would prove
costly later in the match.

The second game was a little more
difﬁcult, as Hollins seemed to get into
a grove. The Generals prevailed,
though, 15-10.

From the second game on, Hollins
seemed to do just enough to keep the
ball in play, and managed to score
points despite some solid play from the
Generals.

The third game was along and ago-
nizing one as W&L lost its edge com-
pletely and fell into lackluster play.
The Generals staked themselves to a
13-8 lead before the roof caved in.

 

W&L failed to score another point,
losing the game 15-13.

From that point on, the Generals
seemed lost, and although Hollins did
raise its level of play a notch, they still
were well below the Generals at their
best.

Hollins somehow eeked out a 15- 1 2

win in the fourth game of the match."

The low point of the match was game
ﬁve, when Hollins finished off the
Generals 15-8.

Unfortunately, this match was not
the ﬁtting end to the excellent season
the team had.

, With an overall record of 13-13, 4-
5 in Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence play, the Generals are a vastly
improved team.

In fact, with a good showing at the
ODAC Tournament, which begins ﬁrst
round play Nov. 3, the Generals could
finish with the second winning season
in the team’s ﬁve-year history.

Appropriately enough, freshmen
Chrissie Hart and Cheryl Taurassi led
the team against Hollins with 14 kills
and 20 assists respectively.

Hart ﬁnished atop the statistical
heap for the season with 184 kills and
60 block points. While Taurassi fin-
ished with an outstanding 402 assists.

Garrigus, who will return to the
line-up for the ODAC Tournament,

3 led the team in aces with 37, and racked

up 249 digs, the second highest total on
the team.

Senior co-captain Leslie Hess led
the team with 287 digs, and also com-
piled 177 kills. The senior from Hous-
ton, will try to lead the team the Gener-
als to their ﬁrst ever ODAC title, and in
this season of firsts, one never knows.

The one major aspect the team needs
to work on is playing at its highest
level, for an entire game, no matter
what the competition.

Head coach Kristi Yarter said this is
what will make the Generals competi-
tive with the top teams.

“We're competitive with everyone
in our conference,” Yarter said. “We
played Guilford, who, to my knowl-
edge, is the best team in the league, to
ﬁve games. If that’s the case, the lower
teams of the ODAC shouldn’t even be
any competition.”

W&L will get a bye in the ﬁrst
round of play. They will open in the
second round against an unspeciﬁed
team on Nov. 6.

  

   

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Hing—tum Phi

Generalsshock Sewanee

Generals upset the fourth ranked team in the South

Sewanee quarterback Bobble Lyle looks on as W&L’s free safety Marc Newman brings Carl
Cravens down In the open field. Cravens was the offensive star of the game, whlle Newmavl
sparkled on the defensive side. Newman earned ODAC Defenslve Player of the Week honors for his

performance on Saturday.

goal.

On the Generals’ fifth straight third
down, Wilson Moore plowed over the
right side for three and a touchdown.

The drive took 16 plays, it con-
sumed more than eight minutes and
probably most important of all, Steiner
was 7-for-7 for 47 yards.

Fallon said the quick start by Steiner
is exactly what the team’s needed.

‘‘I talked to Geren about getting off
to a better start. I told him you don’t get
many chances in the ﬁrst quarter or
half.”

On Sewanee’s next series, the de-
fensive star for the Generals made his
mark.

Free safety Marc Newman would
have his best day as a General with 16
tackles, one interception and three pass
break-ups. His efforts earned him Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Defen-
sive Player of the Week, the second
straight week a General has won that
honor.

“The secondary felt real solid on
Saturday,” said Newman. “We mixed
it up more and played real aggressive."

On the second play of Sewanee’s
second drive, the Tigers’ starting QB,
Young, broke his arm. He would finish
the drive, but not return the rest of the
way.

That left Cravens as the only real
threat for the Generals’ defense. Even

  

with that knowledge, Cravens had a
career day.

On the Tigers second possession of
the second quarter, Cravens handled
the ball seven times on 10 plays and
accounted for 33 yards.

Cravens capped the drive by bowl-
ing over one of the Generals’ comers
for a three-yard touchdown.

Like the ﬁrst quarter, W&L would
respond on the very next drive.

This time, it was Michael
MacLane’s replacement, Tommy Ma-
son, who led the offense. Mason car-
ried ﬁve times for 54 yards, and it was

his 35-yard dash down the right side

that set up the Generals’ second touch-
down.

On second and goal from Sewanee’s
four, Steiner found Moore on a screen
and Moore just carried 21 Tigers line-
backer into the end zone for his second
touchdown of the half.

The TD tied the game at 14 and
would be the last one for either team
the rest of the game.

Fallon said the offense worked all
week at keeping the ball for long peri-
ods of time.

“Our whole thinking was that their
offense was their strong point. But if
they're on the bench, they can’t do
much.

“We wanted to keep the ball but we
also wanted points, not ﬁeld position."

The final 30 minutes was domi-
nated by the defenses, and
Sewanee’s struck ﬁrst.

For the entire third quarter 11;
Generals were pinned in their own
end. They never made it past their
own 24.

W&L started their third drive of
the quarter at their own one-yard
line. Moore got them two on a run
up the middle, then Mason tried 3
get more on the left side. He wish s
he hadn’t.

Mason got stood up by three
Tigers but wouldn’t go down. As
Mason was trying to spin out of
trouble a fourth Tiger popped him

in the back and knocked the ball,

free. The Generals recovered, but i
the end zone resulting in a free two
points. ’ ' '

The shot Mason took was so ‘

hard that the ball ﬂew ten yards in
the air and ten yards backwards.
Mason didn’t miss a step, though.
He returned for W&L’s next serie9.

The score would remain 16-14
for the rest of the third and most of
the fourth. Sewanee counted on their
big horse, Cravens, to rim out much
of the time.

W&L did an excellent job o.f

Cl See SHSOCKER, page 7

)’

Where is everybody?

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  

 
  

 
 

  

  

 
  
 
 
  

  

  

 
  

  
   
   

  
 

 

   
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 

 

Freshman phenom, Josephine Schaelfer enters the home-stretch all by her lonesome. This Is a '
famlllar slght for the W&L womenfs cross country team. This Is her vlctory at the W&L lnvitatlonal
on the weekend. Her time of 18:14 Is another course record. Schaeffer, Amy Mears and Teresﬁ
Lamey led W&L to the ovemhelmlng victory on Saturday.

 
   
 
  
   

  

   
  

  U112 iiirtg-tum Iﬂlti

1992 Election Supplement

1992 Presidential Election

Washington and Lee University Lexington, Virginia 24450 October 29, 1992

Tom Fik a Rss Perot

Students B aclidates,
Presidential Debates To W&L

By RICHARD PBLTZ
Phi Executive Editor

mid the tavem-red glow and wood finishes of the
Generals Headquarters, five presidential contenders
took to the stage Wednesday night, jabbing, stabbing
and jumping each other to garner the popular vote.
Democrat Bill Clinton, played by junior Cottie
Miles, swept the mock debate, win-
ning over the audience of about 65
in a poll of applause, whistles and
yells.
But runner-up Republican
George Bush, played by Andrew
Schneider, stole the show in terms
of laughter with his squeaky, shaky

voice and exaggerated gestures to ,

imitate the president.

“Maybe the Soviet bear is
gone,” Schneider/Bush said, “but
there are many wolves out there.
Watch out!”

Third parties made a strong
showing with freshman Tom Fink

as independent Ross Perot, senior_

Richard Hill as Libertarian Andre
Marrou and senior Cameron
Humphries as Howard Phillips for
the U.S. Taxpayers Party.
The candidates answered
questions posed by moderator Dean of Students David Howison on a
range of topics, from abortion and the economy to drugs and national
defense.

Miles imitated Clinton’s down-home style in an MTV, “Rock the
Vote”-style presentation. He walked with the microphone and ad-
dressed the crowd on a personal level, as “students who are worried
about their future.”

“Is it right, a man who works every day, who slaves, can’t afford
health care?” Miles/Clinton asked. “‘Let’s let them die”’ is the Repub-
lican response, he said.

Schneider/Bush accused his Democratic opponent of being “Gover-
nor Gloom ‘n’ Doom.”

“He says he’s gonna tax the rich,” Schneider said. “But I tell ya,
watch your wallet!”

Miles presented a Democratic platform that included a national

health care system, pro-choice legislation, increased employment through
a better education system and education on drugs rather than interdic-
tron.

But Clinton’s alleged use of marijuana and anti-Viemam war activi-
ties were an ever—present issue.

“Andre [Marrou] says we should legalize drugs ‘cause it’s fun,”
Schneider said. “Well I don’t think it would benefit Governor Clinton,
because he didn’t inhale.”

“I might have smoked marijuana in England,” Miles came back.
“And I might have enjoyed it, too. But that’s past me now.”

Schneider presented a Republican platform of a tax credit to the poor
for medical care, maintaining the national defense and pro-life legisla-
tron.

“Who can you trust?” was the Republican theme.

Hill as Andre Marrou had his moment in the spotlight when Howison
asked about his party’s plank to legalize drugs.

Imagine, Hill/Marrou said: “The entire country gets high and is nice
to each other.”

He said drug-control laws were first enacted as prejudice against
opium-using Asians in the West.

“Victimless crimes like drugs should be made legal,” Hill said.

Hill attacked Bush, Clinton and Perot as, respectively, “the right-
wing socialist,” “the left—wing socialist” and “the fascist socialist.”

“‘Give me your money, and I’ll do nothing,”’ say the Republicans,
according to Hill. And the Democrats say, “‘Give me your money and
let us solve your problems.”

“Libertarians believe you can have your money and solve your own
problems,” he said. Libertarians would eliminate the income tax and
reduce government by 90 percent, he said.

Libertarians also advocate national defense only for U.S. land.

“We’ve got cool stuff,” Hill said of U.S. military technology, like the
“Uranium P-32 Space Modulator.” But “Germany and Japan can afford
to defend themselves,” he said.

Humphries, playing the lesser known Howard Phillips, turned heads
when he addressed the national-defense issue.

“The Red Army is still alive,” Humphries/Phillips said. “They ’ve got
enough grain in storage to feed their people for  years.”

The U.S. Taxpayers platform also advocated the elimination of the
income tax.

Fink loyally portrayed billionaire Ross Perot, minus the east-Texas
twang, delivering such familiar Perot-isms as “I didn’t create this
problem; I’m here to solve it" and “There are plans lying all over
Washington.”

“You’ve got a headache this big,” Fink stretched out his arms, “and
it’s got your future written all over it. Two little, yellow Nuprins are not
going to solve your problem. And that’s how you might characterize our

government: little and yellow.”

Fink/Perot and Hill/Marrou followed
Miles/Clinton and Schneider/Bush in
audience approval, with Humphries/
Phillips receiving a good-natured mur-
mur.

Among the spectators at the GHQ
was the wife of Democrat Steve
Musselwhite, the congressional con-
tender from Virginia’s Sixth District.

“It was more entertaining than TV,”
she said. _

Senior Meredith Gronroos said she
hoped the debate would help her place
her vote, but she only left the debate

more confused than when she came.

“Bill Clinton was the best dressed,”
Gronroos said. “And little Ross Perot
was adorable. But they didn’t help me
decide. There are too many choices.”

Schneider’s effective performance
as Bush gave some audience members
a sweet surprise. .

As founder of the W&L chapter of
the American Civil Liberties Union,
Schneider’s casting had invoked some
doubters. But out of character,
Schneider took the irony in stride.

“Maybe the conservative campus is
having an effect on me," he said. “But
it’s all in fun. Sorry, Dad.”

Phi Staff Writer Craig Burke reported

Photos by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Pill‘ for this article.

Richard Hill as”dAndre Marrou

Cameron Humphries as Howard Phillips

.3"

Cottie Miles as Bill Clinton

Andrew Schneider as George Bush

 

 
 
 

George Bush

BIOGRAPHY. Born June 12, 1924, in Milton, Mass. Bachelor's degree in
economics, Yale, 1948. Wife Barbara; children George, Jeb, Neil, Marvin and
Dorothy; twelve grandchildren. Served in Navy, 1942-45, ﬂew 58 combat mis-
sions in the Pacific during World war ii. Shot down while attacking Japanese radio
installation at Chichi Jima and rescued by a U.S. submarine; awarded Distin-
guished Flying Cross and three Air Medals. Episcopalian.

ON THE ISSUES. osupports outlawing abortion except it the mother's life would
be endangered by carrying the baby to term, or in cases of rape or incest. owants
to idemify felons buying guns, regardless of whether the identification system
includes waiting period or point-of-sale system. osupports limiting House mem-
bers to six terms and senators to two. owants a tax-credit for small businesses
to encourage them to grant family medical leave. owants to lower capital gains
tax to 15.4 percent. r:>Calls for across-the-board tax cuts offset by decreased

government spending. t>Proposes reducing defense spending an additional $50 billion over the next five years.
r:>Proposes to save $294 billion over five years by capping all entitlement spending except Social Security. osupports
giving Iow- and middle-income families $1,000 scholarships that parents may apply to the school of their choice, public M
or private. c>Agrees with military policy prohibiting homosexualsfrom serving in the armed forces. osupports the death

penalty “for the most horrible crimes." c>Running mate: Dan Quayle

    

00
00 ‘

Hawaii

 

 

Projections based on Phi
analysis of recent polls
oonduaed by ‘Fme, The
NewYorkTrmes,CBSand
The Associated Press.

Bill Clinton

BIOGRAPHY. Born Aug. 19, 1946, in Hope, Ark. Bachelor's degree from
Georgetown School of Foreign Service, 1968. Rhodes Scholar at Oxford Univer-
sity, 1968-70. Law degree from Yale, 1973. Wife Hillary; daughter Chelsea. 1 1.
No military service. Baptist.

ON THE ISSUES. oopposes outlawing abortion; supports Roe v. Wade and the
Freedom of Choice Act. c>Supports the Brady Bill, which calls for a brief waiting
period for gun purchases. owants to limit campaign spending by revising
campaign financing laws before considering term limits in Congress. owould
require companies to give unpaid time off for family medical leave when there
is a newborn child or sick family member at home. owould not cut capital gains
tax “forthe rich,” but would exclude halfthe profitsfrom original investments in new
firms from taxes, “so long as the investment is held at leasttive years." :>Proposes
increasing taxes for those making $200,000 or more annually, but cutting taxes
for Iow- and middle-income wage-earners. r>Proposes cutting defense spending l:
than what he says Bush proposes to cut. oProposes a national health system to
Medicare and Medicaid, allowing those costs ‘to rise no fasterthan wages." osupi
not want to allow public money to go to private schools. :>Supports repealing the
forces. osupporls extending the death penalty to “other heinous crimes." c>Rui

 

Projections based on Phi
analysis of recent polls
concluded by ‘Time, The
NewYorkTlmes,CBSand
The Associated Press.

I

in Hope, Ark. Bachelor's degree from
, 1968. Rhodes Scholar at Oxford Univer-
973. Wife Hillary; daughter Chelsea, 11.

l abortion; supports Roe v. Wade and the
9 Brady Bill, which calls for a brief waiting
0 limit campaign spending by revising
iering term limits in Congress. owould
off for family medical leave when there
er at home. owould not cut capital gains
he profits from original investments in new
rent is held at leastfive years." oProposes
0,000 or more annually, but cutting taxes
rs. :>Proposes cutting defense spending by $50 billion more, or5 percent more,
it. oProposes a national health system to control entitlement costs, including
costs ‘to rise no fasterthan wages." osupports public—school choice, but does

private schools. osupports repealing the ban on homosexuals in the armed
I penalty to “other heinous crimes." :>Runnlng mate: Albert Gore Jr.

 

timeless;
Stote Election
Results

-o

(D) Bill Clinton

Toss-=U[o

Projected Electoral Vote Totals:
(270 Needed to Win)

Bush

Clinton

 

Toss-Up

 

Ross Perot

BIOGRAPHY. Born June 27, 1930, in Texarkana, Texas. United States Naval
Academy, class of 1953. Class president and battalion commander. Wife Margot;
children Ross Jr., Nancy, Suzanne, Carolyn and Katherine; six grandchildren.
Served in the Navy, 1953-57, on the U.S.S. Sigoumey and the aircraft carrier
Leyte in the Pacific and Europe. Presbyterian.

ON THE ISSUES. osupports a woman's choice to have an abortion. oopposes
the Brady Bill, which imposes a waiting period for gun buying, because it is only
"a timid step in the right direction." osupportstenn limits in Congress. oProposes
a stair-stepped capital gains tax, decreasing over five years, on shares pur-
chased from public companies. osupports a tax increase on individuals making
over $55,000 and joint-filers making over $89,250. oProposes to cut defense by
$40 billion more than what he says Bush will cut in the next five years. c>Proposes
to lift the cap that allows “betteroff Americans [to] stop paying Medicare taxes"
at a certain level; raise premiums on the Medicare supplemental insurance program; have retirees who can afford it
pay taxes on Social Security benefits; and reduce the cost of living for federal-government retirees. r>Supports a
parent's choice of schools, public or private. :>Says homosexuals sewing in the armed forces is not “realistic."
::>Supports the death penalty.oRunnlng mate: James Stockdale. A

— candidate information from The Associated Press; caricatures by Jeb Tilly, The Ring-tum Phi

 

.

Y
‘ri3l'l"3'i

‘HA T2, ._

Q2"--4
V1 1

Grand Finale

Mitchem, Steinbrook, Moseley
Get School Records
In Final Games

YoU’RE GETTING SLEEEEEPY

Popular Hypnotist
Will Have You Speaking
An Alien Language

0

  itittg-tum iﬂlti

Hill says
_no to Phi
bulk sale

By JAMES LAKE
Special to the Phi

Washington and Lee won’t buy its
faculty and staff a group subscription
to TheRing-tum Phi, W&L’s academic
deans have decided.

John‘Elrod, dean of W&L’s Col-

kge of Arts and Sciences, said he, Law
School Dean Randall Bezanson and
Commerce School Dean Larry Pep-
pers agreed not to use university money
to pay for a carnpuswide subscription
to the newspaper, which faculty and
staff previously received for free.
0 “We are unclear about the ways in
which [a subscription] arrangement
might change the relation of the news-
paper to the W&L community,” Elrod
said. “Until we better understand this
matter, we believe that institutional
funds should not be used for this pur-
pose and that faculty members should
subscribe individually if they so de-
s1re.”

Elrod’s comments came in an Oct.
28 letter to Phi Executive Editors
Cathryn Lopiccolo and Richard Peltz.
The letter was a response to the editors’
decision to charge non—students 25 cents
per copy for the newspaper.

Signs in the University Center and
the Co-op ask non-students to leave 25
cents in a nearby envelope when they

pick up the paper. The newspaper costs .

70-75 cents per copy to produce,
opiccolo estimated, with most of the
cost being covered by advertising.
Traditionally, the Executive Com-
mittee has treated the Phi like any other
student organization, granting it money
from the beginning of the year. This
year, however, the EC approved a sub-

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Ninety women signed up on Oct. 29 for sorority Rush, which begins in January.

Flushin’ 101

Mixer prepares women to rush

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

Ninety freshman women gathered in Evans
Dining Hall Oct. 29 to register for sorority Rush,
mingle with upperclass women and learn a little
about sororities at Washington and Lee.

“The main purpose of the event is to have
[registration be] more than picking up a piece of
paper,” Panhellenic * Council Publicity Chair
Joanna Love said. “All chapters [were] there, but
not for Rush purposes. We just want to encourage
people to go through Rush.”

Panhel President Carrie Eubanks said Chi
Omega, Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa
Gamma and Pi Beta Phi actives were not required
to attend, but that each sorority was well repre-
sented. Eubanks said that though 90 freshmen
and upperclass women paid their $20 Rush fee
Thursday, women can register until Nov. 20.

Rho Chi, or rush counselor, Kate Townley
said women mingled and munched much longer
than the scheduled 45 minutes.

“Most of the freshmen were talking to sorority
members. [Freshmen] were real psyched because
of the whole Greek thing and not because of a
particular sorority.”

This fall, each freshman was assigned a Rho
Chi, a sorority active that elects to disassociate
herself from the Rush process in order to counsel
women rushees. Freshmen not planning to rush
were still encouraged to participate in their Rho
Chi groups to meet other people, Love said.

Love said a lot of time was devoted to promot-
ing the colonization of Pi Phi last year. This year
each sorority will recruit equal numbers, while
last year almosthalf the 160 rushees got bids from
PiPhi. ,  I 
Rush will begin Jan. 8 with Open Houses,
Love said. Skit Night, Sisterhood Night, Prefer-
ence Night and Bid Day will follow that week.

Freshman Justine LaMont said W&L sorori-
ties seemed impressive.

“A couple of people that I already lcnew intro-
duced me to other people in their sororities,”
LaMont said after Thursday’s registration. “It
was really nice to talk to some upperclass people

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W&L, VMI,

NOVEMBER 5, 1992?

adopt

judicial process

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

In response to a series of ﬁghts between students and
cadets, student leaders from W&L and VMI created a
judicial process Tuesday to hear disputes between students
from the two schools.

Student Conduct Committee President Reggie Aggarwal
said details were ironed out for the cross-institutional pro-
cess, which will give Washington and Lee students and
Virginia Military Institute cadets a method other than re-
venge to mediate their differences.

Aggarwal said the process will almost certainly be used
to investigate a fight be-
tween students and cadets
at Pi Kappa Phi Sunday.

“Students and cadets
shouldn't take justice into
their own hands,”
Aggarwal said. “Now
tl1ere’sanoutletfor them.”

When an incident oc-
curs between students and
cadets, anyone involved
can report it to a member
of the SCC or the General
Committee, VMI’s judi-
cial body.

A team of investigators,
two from W&L and two
from VMI, will interview
participants and witnesses
and prepare a joint report. Aggarwal said the W&L investi-
gators will most likely be SCC members or SCC advocates.

The team’s report will be turned over to the SCC.and the
General Committee and each body will decide whether or
not to take action in the case against its school’s students.

Aggarwal said the new process should prevent the “circle
of revenge” which he says occurs each time there is an
incident involving cadets and students.

Aggarwal said Wednesday that a fight Sunday at Pi Phi
between four W&L students and five VMI cadets will be a
perfect -test of the new process.

None of the participants had filed a complaint as of
Wednesday, but Aggarwal said the SCC might begin an

J
iii

Aggarwal

Fighting
erupts again

i
1

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Tension between W&L students and
VMI cadets resurfaced in a late-night
Halloween scufﬂe at the Pi Kappa Phi
house. ;

Pi Phi Travis West said five cadets
went to the house about 3:30 a.m. on
Nov. 1 and asked to be admitted. Four
Pi Phi members refused, a ﬁght ensued
and West called security. 

When security officers arrived, they
called Lexington police. ;

After the police stopped the ﬁght
three cadets ﬂed, according to police
reports. Fourth-class cadet Stewart Holt
got tangled in a fence, and Officer
Angela Poole tackled him.

The reports say Holt then kicked
Poole several times to break her grasp
on him before he ran toward El Rodeo.
where another officer caught him. D

Holt was charged with assaulting an
officer and resisting arrest. -

VMI Commandant of Cadets Mike
Bissell said the fight resulted from the
first-year cadets’ first free weekend.

“When a rat [first-year student] goes”
out and gets into [trouble], it’s not
right, but it happens,” Bissell said. ,

Bissell also said he doesn't think
the three W&L-VMI ﬁghts since last
spring indicate a trend. ’

But W&L Dean of Students David
Howison said he believes the violence
dates back to a fight last spring at Beta
Theta Pi, after which police entered

EC clears up
confusion
about funding

ACLU controversy prompts
statement on partisan groups

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

. The Executive Committee hammered out a written state-
ment Monday clarifying their policy on funding student
organizations.

The policy resulted from the controversy over the EC’s
refusal to fund the Washington and Lee chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union. EC Secretary Bob Tompkins
wrote a letter to The Ring-tum Phi from the EC, explaining
3) the student body why a general written policy was needed.

“There should be an established process,” third-year law
EC Rep. Jay Sterne said. “It’s
important to have a written, al-
beit framework, policy of why
we don't fund certain groups.”

EC President Josh
MacFarland said reasons for not
Tunding partisan groups go be-
yond whether the student body
supports the groups.

“We’re trying to keep the
political views of the EC out of
the budgetary process,”
MacFarland said. “Being con-
Qistent in this policy is the im-
portant thing.”

The policy says the EC will
not, “directly fund [politically
and ideologically partisan organizations. The Executive
Committee will remain neutral on issues of national politics
and political ideology.”

‘0 In other EC business Monday, Tompkins wrote a pro-
posal for the Contact co-sponsorship fund.

In October, the EC set aside $7,500 for the fund, which
will provide money for sponsoring speakers of particular
interest to specific organizations such as the Minority Stu-
dents Association, Women’s Forum and Amnesty lntema-
tional. The proposal says the EC will designate groups
Qligible for the fund each fall during budget hearings.

The designated groups will bring speaker proposals to
Contact, where the group and Contact committee members
will discuss the proposal. An EC representative to Contact
will act as a moderator. If the two groups can’t reach an
agreement they will go before the EC, which will make a
decision.

. The EC will discuss and vote on Monday, Nov. 9 whether
to fund the Contact co-sponsorship fund.

Tompkins

“ [The dining hall] was packed,” Townley said.

for a change.”

Photo by Amy French, The Ring-tum Phi

Students cheer as Democrat Bill Clinton gains electoral votes.

Students celebrate,
mourn Clinton victory

By FAITH TRUMAN
and RICHARD WEAVER
of The Ring-tum Phi

When Bill Clinton passed the magi-
cal 270 electoral vote mark Tuesday
night, 20 assembled members of the
College Democrats cheered and
uncorked bottles of champagne.

“This election will begin a new era
in which the government will work for
the middle class, as opposed to the
privileged,” freshman Kathleen
McNamara said.

College Democrats President Cottie
Miles said that with the election over, it
is time for Americans to work together.

“The nation’s economic problems
face all of us, regardless of party,”
Miles said. “It is obvious that the people
have mandated that America’s prob-
lems must come first.”

Miles said the College Democrats
will attend Clinton’s inauguration in
January.

Meanwhile, a somber Republican
crowd watched election results at a
party hosted by senior Will Thomas.

The GOP fans expressed dismay as
state after state gave electoral votes to
Clinton.

“I didn’t realize the American pub-
lic was that stupid,” Thomas said.

‘‘I thought it would be a lot closer,”

senior Ben Gangloff said. 1

“The country’s going to hell in a
hand basket,” Thomas and Gangloff
agreed.

Professor of History Jefferson Davis
Futch echoed the sentiments.

“I feel decidedly ill,” Futch said. “I
hope I live until 1996.”

Last Friday’s mock election results
indicate most W&L students would
have liked George Bush to be elected.

Bush won the mock election with
54 percent of the 497 votes cast. Clinton
garnered 33 percent of the vote, while
Ross Perot received 11 percent.

Also, W&L students preferred Re-
publican Bob Goodlatte over Demo-
crat Steve Musselwhite in the Virginia
6th District congressional race, 71 per-
cent to 29 percent.

Away from the crowds surrounding
television election coverage, some stu-
dents had other views on the conduct
and outcome of the 1992 campaign.

“I’d like to give a big thank you to
the networks and MTV for their unbi-
ased coverage,” senior Richard Burke
said sarcastically.

“The country will mourn the loss
[of George Bush],” sophomore Ty
Tydings said.

Junior Joe Rarnseur had his own
way of coping with Bush’s loss.

“I’m going to ‘start four years of
heavy drinking.”

investigation.

Santa to bring

By KATIE YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

When the Student Activities Board received
more money to bring better known bands to
Lexington, they wasted no time in getting started.

SAB Entertainment Director Matt Hansen
confirmed that the Spin Doctors will play at the
pavilion on Dec. 4, the Friday of Christmas week-
end. The Spin Doctors is an up-and—coming band
gaining recognition through songs like “Little
Miss Can’t Be Wrong” and “Two Princes.”

Members of the SAB had their eyes set on the
Spin Doctors when the Executive Committee
gave them an $8,000 budget increase this fall.

“I’ve been working on this from the time we
made the request,” Hansen said.

Hansen said the SAB wanted to sponsor an

VMI barracks to arrest a cadet.

Spin Doctors

activity for Christmas weekend that would in-;
volve the whole school. In past years, Christmas
activities have only been held by individual fra-_
ternities or other student groups. l
Students are enthusiastic about the concert
being added to the traditional parties. 
“It will make it more of a school function than
a Greek one,”junior Monica Robinson said. “It'll
be really fun to be with everyone at the beginning
of the weekend and it’s a great band.” A
Other bands that SAB has lined up for the
coming months are Picture This, Everything and,
tentatively, Lost in the Supermarket. Hansen said
these bands, which will perform in the Generals
Headquarters, will offer a variety of music.
This Friday in the GHQ, SAB is sponsoring
Bingo as a fundraiser. Hansen said the board
might give some of the Bingo proceeds to charity
and use some for the SAB activities.

Welcome to Wild Kingdom

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

A crew for WVPT Harrisonburg, a public broadcasting station, scopes out the
Colonnade Tuesday for a documentary piece on Washington and Lee.The team
1 said the segment will air on the show “Skyline Illustrated" in about two weeks.

PAGE 2

 

 

Elli: ﬁling-mm iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Officers and

gentlemen?

Like wives in the Bible, they seem to be most active just before
dawn. Fists clenched, shoulders back,. staggering with bloodshot eyes

V and smelling of vomit and stale beer, roving bands of them come to

invade late-night Lexington gatherings. Even the brightest cheer turns to

' a frown when someone conveys the all-too-familiar message: “Oh shit,

a bunch of Veemies are here.”
Who in the Washington and Lee community has not developed

. an aversion to VMI cadets?

The ﬁghts at Beta Theta Pi last spring, Phi Delta Theta in

1 October and Pi Kappa Phi on Halloween night are only the most
A publicized in a series of incidents between the schools in the last few
, years. The fact that three incidents of this magnitude have occurred lately

indicates that the situation has evolved intoa serious problem.

How has W&L reacted to the problem?

Within hours of the Oct. 8 fight at Phi Delt, Dean of Students
David L. Howison and SCC President Reggie Aggarwal realized things
had gotten out of hand and responded. Howison and Aggarwal moved to
open dialogue with their counterparts at VMI to seek solutions to the
problems between the schools. As a result, a judicial process has been
created to adjudicate incidents involving students and cadets. Also,
through the persistentefforts of Aggarwal, an informal committee made
up of cadets and students has been fonned to address differences between
the two schools.

W&L took the first step. But VMI’s response has not been
adequate.

VMI Commandant Mike Bissell’s reactions do not give us
much hope for a successful resolution. Consider his reactions to three
recent incidents.

Last spring, a group of uninvited cadets became rowdy at a Beta
party and were asked to leave. After starting what could only be called
a brawl, the cadets ﬂed to the safety of the VMI barracks. When
Lexington police and W&L security officers went to the barracks to
arrest one of the cadets involved in the fight hundreds of cadets yelled,
cursed and pelted the ofﬁcers with fruit and rgther objects from a second-
story walkway. A few days later, Bissell said no one would be punished
for the riot because none of the cadets involved could be identified.

This fall,afew hours afterone W&L student gotintoafightwitli
a cadet, he was awakened in the Phi Delt house by another cadet who said
the police were downstairs. Instead, he found five cadets who put him in
the hospital. Bissell said the cadets, who were not allowed in the
fraternity house regardless of purpose, went to Phi Delt “to talk” about
the earlier ﬁght.

Halloween night, a group of uninvited cadets became enraged
and started a ﬁght when they were not allowed into Pi Phi. After the
police showed up, one cadet capped off his night by kicking a female
Lexington police officer as she tried to arrest him. Bissell dismissed the
cadets’ behavior on Halloween night as inevitable for rats on their first
free weekend of the year.

Can this be the attitude of an experienced administrator at a
school that is rapidly losing respect among its peer institutions?

VMI cadets are not allowed at W&L fraternities unless they are
speciﬁcally invited. None of the cadets involved in any of these incidents
had such an invitation, but that seems lost on Bissell. - I I ‘

Bissell’s defense of his students goes beyond mere blind faith
and enters the realm of blatant stupidity. Bissell’s apparent “us against
them” mentality, which prevents him from punishing his beloved cadets,
only allows them to discard responsibility for their actions.

The solution to this problem lies on the other side of the wall.
The supposed mission of Bissell’s institute is to produce citizen soldiers.
A key component of any military education is discipline, in both civilian
and military life. .

Without both of these, VMI will fail in its mission. The cade
will make adequate ofﬁcers, but will they also be gentlemen?

We propose a plan to solve the problem.

First, remind the cadets that they are not allowed in the frater-
nity houses or in the dorms without pennission. This seems obvious but
apparently someone over there isn’t getting the message.

Second, Bissell and the General Committee must make greater
efforts to punish cadets for their misconduct off campus. As it stands
now, cadets seem to receive a greater punishment for tarnishing a button
than they do for assaulting a police ofﬁcer.

Third, give the cadets something to do. We completely under-
stand the cadets’ wanting to get out of that place when they get the
chance, but it is not the responsibility of W&L fraternities to provide
entertainment. Unfortunately, there is not much else to do in Lexington.
But that is a problem for VMI, not W&L.

_ On the W&L side, students must call security at the first sign of
a problem. And W&L students should refrain from provoking conﬂict;
there can be no “circle of revenge” if W&L doesn’t draw its half.

Now we look to VMI to implement a new approach.

Ellie iaing-tum lﬁlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phi1 Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity. ~

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

 

 

The Ring-rum Phl, October 5, 1992

rturrs in pop. ywe

 For. IN‘-‘PIKA or!

  

Write-in vote signals true feelings _

WASHINGTON — On election day, I cast a .
write-in vote for president. Here is why, and for

whom.

The primary point of voting is to inﬂuence the
outcome of competition for power. Another reason

for voting, even when (as
is often the case) the out-
come of an election is not
in doubt in one’s state or in

Regarding Clinton, the New Republic, even while
warmly endorsing him, noted that “in so many areas,
Clinton’s thoroughly political character makes him
at times almost indistinguishable from his oppo-
nent.” Clinton’s assumptions about revenue gains

the nation, is that we regis-
ter consent to the outcome
by participating in the pro-
cess. A third and not neg-

GEORGE WILL

Washington Post Writers Group

ligible reason for voting is
the catharsis of venting an
opinion.

One should not cast a write-in vote merely be-
cause neither party has put forward a paragon. Decid-
ing between disappointments — picking the least
inadequate —— is what unenthralled adults often do,
more or less cheerfully. But a write-in vote is perrnis-
sible, indeed obligatory, when no candidate repre-
sents even remotely what the nation needs.

In such a case, to cast other than a write-in vote is
to send a false signal of contentment about the con-
ventional choices. That is a truly wasted vote.

What signal should a conservative of my stripe
send? Not one that could have been sent by voting for

Perot, Bush or Clinton.

Perot removed himself from the ranks of the
plausible. The various installments of North Dallas
Nutty (phantom guard dogs attacking invisible ter-
rorists; how dare anyone ask him for veriﬁcation of
the doctored photo plot or the other plots?) suggests
that Perot is — this is the kindest construction —
someone deranged by overdoses of sycophancy.

Regarding Bush, what the New Republic says
merrily, conservatives must gloomily acknowledge:
“Bush has done to conservatism what no liberal
opponent could have done: he has destroyed it from
within.” He has treated it as a mere expedient for his
attainment of office. The nation always needs a .
healthy conservative movernentto resist governrnent’s
organic tendency toward aggrandizement and the
suffocation of society's energies. There cannot be
such a conservative movement until the Republican
Party is out from under Bush’s control.

actionary liberalism —— defense of factions strongly
organized and skillfully represented in Washington.

I-lis itch to use govem- '
mentto manipulate the pri-
vate sector, particularly in-
vestment, reﬂects an over-
estimation of the usefulness
of that blunt instrument, gov-
ernment; and an overestima-
tion of the skill and niceness

and self-financing
programs are loopy to
an almost
Darmanesquedegree.
And most of the
“change”hepromises
will point the nation
inthewrongdirection.
In fact, it is not real
change, it is just an-
other installment of re-

ists.

supply of entrepreneurial energy is devoted to “trans-
fer-seeking.” This energy is not devoted to generat-
ing wealth by producing goods and services. Rather,
it is devoted to manipulating government to capture
wealth that others produce.

Here is a harbinger: The Center for Responsive
Politics divides the top business contributors to the 5
presidential candidates into eight categories. Bush
has received more than Clinton from seven catego-
ries. But Clinton has decisively beaten Bush with the
heaviest contributing category: lawyers and lobby-

.The nation needs what no contemporary Demo-
crat can be, someone controlled by this core convic-
tion: The point of an enterprise society — in a sense,
the American premise — is that prodigies of produc-
tivity can result from millions ofuriheroic actions by
individuals going. about their business without gov-

ernment guidance, super- .

vision, subsidy or regula-
tion. The candidate who

One should not cast a write-
in vote merely because nei-
ther party has put forward a
paragon. Deciding between

received my cathartic vote
understands this.

My candidate kept his
dignity in a setting inimi-
cal to dignity —— the Bush

of the class attracted to ser- . . . . adrriinistration. He has been
vice in government; and an disappointments '_ Picking conspicuous and often dis-
underestimation of the ben- the least inadequate .— is dained there because of his
eﬁts that would ﬂow from ebullient interest in ideas,
an American societyless su— what unenthraued adults in the absence of which
pervised by that class wield- often d0, more 0!‘ less cheer- politicsis mere appetiteand

ing that instrument.

the worst aspect

economy.”

A large and growing portion of America’s ﬁnite

Furthermore, harnessed
to his party’s congressional
faction, and propelled by its
pent-up demand for activ-
ism, Clinton will worsen

fully. But a write-in vote is
permissible, indeed obliga-
tory, when no candidate rep-
resents even remotely what

cynicism. In his passion for
entrepreneurial capitalism
and empowerment of the
poor, he strikes the balance
St. Benedict urged 15 cen-
turies ago: “So temper all
things that the strong may

of the nation needs.
America’s increasingly de- .
graded civic culture. He will .
increase the role of the parasite class in governance. draw back in alarm.”
I refer to those, principally Washington lawyers and
lobbyists and those who hire them, who prosper in
what author Jonathan Rauch calls “the parasite

still have something to long
after, and the weak may not

My vote went to Jack Kemp.
This is not an endorsement of him for 1996.
However, it is a message to the new Clinton admin-

istration. My patience with it is wearing thin.

©1992, Washington For! Writers Group

5

9

The EC explains the ACLU decision ~

MY VIEW

’ From
the Executive Committee

The Executive Committee stands
by its policy to deny direct funding to
politically and ideologically partisan
groups. We would like to make our
position and its underlying reasons clear
to the entire student body.

Recently, Andrew Schneider, presi-
dent of the W&L chapter of the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union, petitioned
the EC for funding. That request was
denied because a majority of the EC
determined that the ACLU, while not
supporting one political party or en-
dorsing political candidates, does es-
pouse a particular interpretation of the
Bill of Rights and the Constitution.
The interpretation of these documents

has been at the root of political debates

since the birth of our nation. Further,
while the ACLU does not seek to di-
rectly inﬂuence the election of public
officials, it does seek to inject its views
into the American political process
through the courts.

Where the issue of partisanship has
been raised in the past the EC has
consistently voted not to fund partisan
groups. In 1989, the Spectator was
denied funding by the Executive Com-
mittee. Despite assertions by the
Spectator’s organizer Paul Lagarde that
the magazine would not engage in elec-
tioneering, the EC found that it did
support a particular political ideology.

The W&L chapter of the ACLU
further claims that it would not pro-

mote the agenda of its national parent
group. The budget request states that
the chapter only seeks to address issues
of local interest and wants to conduct
“speak-outs” and debates on campus.
Two considerations prevent the ACLU
from prevailing on this point. First,
while these activities may not directly
promote the political ideas of the
ACLU, they would be conducted un-
der the guise of the ACLU, a national
group with a definite political orienta-
tion. Second, these types of events are
already sponsored by other groups on
campus. The Ring-tum Phi certainly
serves as a forum for debate, as do the
Contact Committee and the newly
formed Graharn-Lee-Washington So-
ciety. The Executive Committee funds
all of these organizations and they are
all politcally neutral in their purpose.

It is this Committee's strong belief
that its policy not to fund politically
oriented groups is well-founded. The
ﬁrst reason is grounded in the EC’s
recent history of denying funding to
other partisan organizations. Chang-
ing our policy at this point would be
inconsistent. Second, and more impor-
tantly, the EC wishes to remain neutral
on issues of national politics and politi-
cal ideology.

The EC’s purpose is to uphold the
Honor System and to promote student
life on this campus. The political orien-
tation of individual EC members should
not be an issue in the EC’s decision
making or in the student's decisions to
elect particular members. The EC
should be composed of persons with a
concern for issues of immediate im-
portance to this campus, in particular

the fair and equitable administration of
our Honor System.

The contentionthatthe EC has failed
to promote lively debate and free ex-
pression on this campus is without
merit. The EC has chosen to fulﬁll this
mission by funding several organiza-
tions at W&L which facilitate discus-
sion in specific issues and in varying
formats. Out-

where the EC holds appointment power
for these committees it has sought to
provide balance in their membership.
In interviewing applicants for this
year’s Contact Committee the EC
sought persons who desired a more

politicallybalanced committee. Indeed, i

last spring Andrew Schneider was ap-
pointed to serve on Contact by the
unanimous vote

lets for politi- of the EC.
cal discourse Thepolitical orientation We °°“°ed<=
abound on this . . . EC thatourearlierde-
c,,,,,p,,S_ ofindrvrdual members mien ,0 fund
The Igublié should not be an issue in :?«mn]e_styImerrtia-
Cal.l0l’lS oar - - 0 iona 1S suspec in
funds The the.EC’s decision making “gm of ms
Ring-tum Phi or in the student’s decr- policy. However,
and the Politi- ' ‘ concerns about
cal Review. sions to elect particular we political W
The Women’s members. entation of theor-

Forum pur-
poses to facilitate discussion of issues
of concern to women, as the Minority
Students Association does for issues
affecting minorities.

The Student Bar Association pro-
motes discussion of legal issues and
issues of general interest to law stu-
dents. (It should be noted that the SBA
has been given great deference be-
cause it receives only a portion of its
funding from the EC.) Two catch-all
groups seek to involve students in a
broad range of topics, the Contact Com-
mittee, with nationally known speak-
ers, and the newly created Graham-
Lee-Washington Society, with debates
and discussions by members of our
own community.

Each of the committees named
above is neutral in its purpose, and

ganization were
not apparent to the committee at the
time the budget was being made. Nor
were the activities Amnesty proposed
directed at furthering their national po-
litical views. Because the allocation to
Amnesty has already been made and
that group has been operating with
reliance on those funds, the EC will not
alter their allotment. In future years
this committee may wish to do so.
By this policy the EC does not raise
objection to the existence of the Spec-
tator, the ACLU, or any other politi-
cally engaged group on this campus.
We merely seek to administer the funds
of the student body in as fair a manner
as possible while at the same time
providing the entire community of
W &L with the opportunity to engage
in the free and open exchange of ideas.

I

4

 

' Moke Wolfe, ’94, Baltimore, Md. —

9

5

V

I

 

The Rlng-tum Phi, October 5, 1992

C

Skins disease strikes many in Virginia

‘Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

If there's one thing I’ve learned
since I’ve been in Lexington, it’s that
Virginians take Redskins football much
too seriously. I mean, we’re talking

‘about a football team here, not some-
thing that’s worth making a big fuss
over. The only team that I know of that
is worth making a fuss over is the
Swedish Bikini Team, but Spos di-
gresses.

Last year's Super Bowl Champion

edskins are held in pretty high regard
around these pans. Redskins games
tend to take precedence over church
and other religious functions, family
outings and other activities, and even,
dare I say, sex. If Cindy Crawford
were to be doing nude aerobics in front
of the television set during a Redskins
game, I know of some die-hard fans
that would actually crane their necks
around her in an attempt to watch Mark
Rypien and friends run around in tight
pants. Go ﬁgure. ‘

God help you if you try to interrupt

e telecast while these fans are en-
gaged in their weekly religious fervor.
Some weeks ago, Spos attempted to
change the channel during a Skins
game, so that he might watch
“Married...With Children.” It seemed

innocent enough. Spos, like several
million other males around the nation,
feels that watching Christina Apple gate
in spandex is a lot more fun than watch-
ing two teams of men having an orgy in
full view of 60,000 onlookers. My
three friends, who had up until that
moment been completely enthralled
by the aforementioned display of sexual
deviance immediately stared up at me
from the couch as if I had just blown up
all five girl

ﬂiction: .

E] Naked pictures of Mark Rypien
and/or Art Monk under the pillow.

D Feeling theneed to paint one’s
face in the Redskins team colors.

C1 Suicidal tendencies after a
Redskins loss.

The sad thing is that Redskins fans
feel that having the disease is socially
acceptable. Fans understand when a
Redskins loss on Monday night causes

alarming peaks

schools with

You think that Ron and

in the local sui-

plastic explo- cide rates. You
sives. Nan m ' ' ’ _ think that Ron
Sensingthat . . Cy aklng political d'e' and Nancymak-
he had of- cisions based on astrology ing political de-
f d d, S ' ‘) " b d
r§.'‘m°errar‘éi’§ '5 bad-, H0“ ab°,“‘ Gm" §LS.i?.i‘§gy‘Ei°ba‘3’3
began to ex- nor Wilder making major HowaboutGov-
1' hi lf. - - W'ld
P“}.’;vh‘;‘§,°You budget decisions based on ﬁfgffng nﬁajjﬁ
wantedtowatch the Score of the previous budgetdecisions

that shot of
Mark Rypien

night’s football game?

based on the
score of the pre-

pickinghisnose
on the sidelines?”
Spos was immediately thrown to
the floor and pummeled with couch
pillows, as one Redskins fan poured a
pitcher of cheap beer on his head.
Spos attributes this abnormal be-
havior to what is known as the Skins
disease. Learn to recognize the fol-
lowing symptoms of this dreaded af-

vious night’s
football game? This is happening.
Spos would not kid you in matters of
such importance.

Thus, Spos cannot express how de-
lighted he was when his own New
York Giants came to R.F.K. to play the
Redskins last Sunday. The Giants, a
mediocre team this year with a record
of three wins, four losses going into

Sunday’s game, were obviously the
underdogs in comparison to the awe-
some might of the Redskins. Needless
to say, the Big Blue Wrecking Crew
pulled off a surprise upsetvictory, send-
ing prissy little Mark Rypien to the
locker room in tears and boosting the
local suicide rate 600 percent. Spos
was understandably psyched after call-
ing his friends to remind them that they
owed several cases of brew, a few
hundred dollars in cash and a promise
to clean the Sposmeister’s bedroom on
a weekly basis for the rest of the school
year. Spos can’t say that he won’t let it
go to his head. [0ﬂ?cial Subliminal
Message——The Giants rule... You dig
the Giants big time.]

You may recall that some weeks
ago, Spos announced a survey to deter-
mine who the sexiest person on televi-
sion is. Although the carnpuswide re-
sponse can only be described as pitiful
in terms of size, the votes have been
tallied and the masses have spoken.

The sexiest person on television
is: Sean 0’ Rourke.

For those who don’t know Sean, he
is Cable Nine’s coolest reporter. He
appears on Cable Nine more often than
Bill Cosby appears on network TV.
Congratulations, Sean!

On that note, Spos will sign off,
reminding you to learn from my friends’
mistakes. Neverbet against the Giants.

Phi subscription policy is ‘silly and misguided’

To the Editor:

Your new policy on circulation is both silly and

misguided.

The proper function of a student newspaper is to
inform the university community about what is hap-
pening on campus. That helps create community and
calls attention to aspects of the community that need

attention.

You can perform that function well only if the
paper circulates to the widest possible audience. Your
new policy will make it more difficult for faculty to
see the paper. The quarter is no big deal, though I

know of few faculty members who will pay it. The big
deal is that most of us will not trek to GHQ to pick up
a copy. The net effect is that few faculty will read your

paper.

Faculty read the newspaper as part of our profes-
sional obligation, not because of the paper’s intrinsic
intellectual merit. That professional obligation has
some significance, of course, but it is marginal enough
that we are not going to make the special effort to
obtain the paper.The silliness arises in your reasoning
about the University’s subsidy. Call it “donation” or
“subscription,” it is still a subsidy, and subsidies can be

cutoff. If you think that changing the name of the
subsidy will “free the paper from potential pres-
sure” from the EC, you should seek help from a

junior high counselor to overcome your naiveté.

S66 one.

Sincerely,
Louis W. Hodges
Director, Society & Professions, Prof. of Bible

The administration is absolutely right in refus-
ing further subsidy in the form of a faculty “sub-
scription.” They recognize a shell game when they

W&L teams need cheerleaders for support

0 the Editor:

I am very thankful that we are alive
and well with all of the blessings and
liberties we can enjoy here inthis coun-
try, but while you and all of yourrela-'
tives are seated.to,a dinner of turkey
and dressing ‘and '<’:ranbet‘ry' sauce and

pumpkin pie, I will be with ‘my family “
d

ta football game. And maybe there’s
something a little off in that — but this
is THE game of the season for the two
biggest (SEC) rivals in my state! My
grandparents, parents, aunt, uncle,
cousin, brother and I will all go as a
family thing to the big game — the
Auburn versus Alabama game.
Why am I telling you this? I’m
admitting, before I get to the W&L

“related thrust of this, that the culture in
which I’ve grown up is very football
oriented. I know it is. And I like it.
Going to visit my grandparents many

gweeltendsl of elementary school days -

and on through junior and high school
meant going to Saturday’s football
6. ,..- .. .. . . . 

One thing that interested me as a
little girl was not only learning about
the plays and the calls on the field, but
also cheering for my team along with
the cheerleaders, and watching the half-
time show of the band and dance team.
Maybe that’s what encouraged me to
help sponsor sixtli-grade cheerleaders

. when I was in ninth grade, and then to

be on the high school dance and drill

team when I was a junior and senior in
high school. Not only was it a lot of fun,
but also it was my way of showing the
team that I was enthusiastic about their
game and that I‘supp0_t‘ted‘them. I_ now

i thatwhile tli’e’playet§ are oiif“ __et;e',
’ ‘tliey”d lilte"s'o'rii‘e ‘e_iieollfa‘gem’ei't’_t fr'_(_ir‘r‘ij
“ their frietrds" and”fan*s‘and that“it]<‘l‘be

great to have people show their support
and enthusiasm.

Well, my main questions to you, the
W&L student, are: Don't you think
that W&L Generals football (and who
knows what other sports teams) would
like to see enthusiasm from the crowds,
perhaps as could be encouraged by
cheerleaders? And as long as we attend
the game, shouldn’t we actively show

the players our support? Well, I think
so.

I’m not one to try and make waves

in calm seas —- lots of times I’d say in

-a conservative 'traditionalist’s’ way —

'r‘n'u‘c“h more ‘we could'b'e'doing — why
not better share our enthusiasm and
encouragement with the team?

I’m not trying to cause an earth-
shaking revolution, but maybe y'all
will show a little more excitement in
the W&L sports events, that you attend.
And, what do you think about cheer-
leaders at W&L?

Caroline Amason, ’95

, Honor System not always trusted Survey response

We the Editor:

I would like to describe an incident that occurred
to me at the SAB concert in the Pit on Wednesday,
Oct. 21. As I approached the entrance I came upon a
desk with two workers. Their job was to stamp
people’s hands with a certain color depending on
their age. The following is my recollection of the
dialogue between one of the workers and myself:

Worker: Hello. Are you over 21?
Me: Yes.

Worker: Can I see some I.D.?
Me: Are you a W&L student?
Worker: Yes.

Me: Then why are you demanding to see my I.D.?
Have you heard of the Honor System? Is my word

not enough?

Worker: Sorry man. We were told we had to do it.
The worker never satisfactorily answered my ques-
tion as to who told him he “had to do it,” but he was

told by either the SAB or The Pit Administrators.
Regardless of who instructed him, demanding.identi-
fication at a school-sponsored event seems to blatantly
disrespect the Honor Code.

In my experience as a student here for over two
years I have never had my word so egregiously disre-
garded — in fact, I cannot remember a single time
when giving my word has not been sufficient to satisfy

anyone.

I think that it is unfortunate that at W&L a student’s
word of honor is not trusted 100 percent of the time -—
especially here on campus. I hope future campus
policies respect the Honor System enough so as to
believe in it. A student’s word can (and should be)

taken as the truth.

Sincerely ,
James F. Kull ’93

To the Editor:

All right all you honorable W&L students, espe-
cially you men.... For you who think a woman faced
with being raped should sit back and enjoy it, I have
a question.

Do you understand what rape really is? It is
torture, a torture far worse than cigarette burning or
beating. It is an invasion of your being. It is the theft

of a part of your soul. It is. physical pain and

emotional pain. I

You tell me, how is one supposed to “relax and
enjoy" it? Would you, could you sit back and relax
if someone thrust a piece of hot pig iron‘down your
throat until you were choking?

Kathryn Noel Barbour ’93

Junior Executive Committee Rep.

0 \

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

  

— “Bush because he probably had
the guts to inhale.”
0

..¢

Phaedra Cianciulli, ’96, Mt.
Arlington, NJ. — “Clinton
because of the way he deals with
young people means he has an eye to

the future.”

TALKBACK

 

 

Christina Wheeler, ’94, Austin, Texas and Liz Randol, ’93, Shaker

Heights, Ohio

—— “Sharon Stone because she was great in Basic Instinct.”

53;“ f‘lt?sj1ot'b'rokeii,"don’iﬁx it.f’dBug,irt_ j
Tjusfsee that there is so ,

 

Fencing

Club Fencing will start again
winter term. Interested persons
(male or female) should call either
Coach Lyles at 463-8683 or Chris
Keller at 463-4884.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates from 10 p.m.-2 a.m. on
Friday and Saturday nights. We’re
also looking for volunteers to help
drive. If interested call Melissa or
Jess at 464-4017.

Lecture

Pam Fesler, senior reporter for
Congressional Quarterly, will give
a talk “The Results of the 1992
Elections: An Early Appraisal” at4
p.m. on Monday, Nov. 16 in room
327 of the Commerce School.

WLUR  

WLUR will present an album
featureeveryThursday from5-5:45
p.m. Listen to hear new albums
from the hottest rock artists. Signs
will be posted each week as to what
band is being spotlighted.

FOC

There is a mandatory Freshman
Orientation Committee meeting for
new and returning members at 6: 15
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center onThursday, Nov. 12. Ques-

ti0n.S.9r-prablsrnsrshoulribedirectedr-  -  . . , .
.. .. .UI.UVQI$llXu.5:PQ11¢.X.0J1nhal'~aS5mem ..:
.next Wednesday, <Novi.»..l l._at 7 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. The discussion is

.1 Carlin Jones at 464-3758.. :-  v.»

I

CD&P

The Mayo Clinic will hold open
interviews on Thursday, Nov. 12.
Anyone interested in Summer Re-
search positions in connection with
their Ph.D. programs may speak
with Dr. Rick McGee, Associate
Director for Student Affairs in room
114 of the University Center from
9 a.m.-3 p.m. Sign up for an inter-
view time in the CD&P Office.

Law School

The Blue Ridge Pre-law Forum
will be held on Monday, Nov. 9 in
rooms 109, 113, and 114 of the
University Center. We will have
representatives from 37 law schools
available to share information about
their programs and speak with in-
terested students. If you are think-
ing about law school, come with
your comments, questions and con-
cems. Literature from law schools
not able to attend will be available.

(. 1. 1-H‘:  t "

~ PAGE 3

Bookstore

The Bookstore is taking orders
for The Undergraduate Almanac
by Jon Sbar, W&L ’9l, for prepaid
$9.95 plus tax. The books are ex-
pected by mid-November. The
Bookstore hopes to arrange a sign-
ing after the books arrive.

BLSA

The Black Law Students’ Asso-
ciation wouldlike to invite the W&L,
Lexington and Buena Vista com-
munities to hear Judge Shackleford
speak on Tuesday, Nov. 10 at6p.m.
in Classroom C of Lewis Hall. Re-
ception to follow. All are welcome
to attend.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Fonim has changed
its meeting time to 6:30 p.m. on
Sundays. Meetings will continue to
be held in the Arlington Women’s
Center in the basement of the Uni-
versity Center. This Sunday, Nov.
8, Art Professor Pam Simpson will
lead a discussion entitled “Is Femi-
nism a Dirty Word?” Everyone is
welcome.

College Dems

There will be a meeting of the
College Democrats this Sunday,
Nov. 8 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center Game Room. For more in-
formation call 463-8984.

SCC

, 'I',lierewill,be a discussion onthe V

sponsored by the Student Conduct
Committee, and all are encouraged
to attend.

Get it Out

General Notes should be sub-
mitted to The Ring-tum Phi office,
room 208 in the University Center.
The deadline for General Notes is
Tuesday at noon.

Opinion
Letters to the Editor and My
Views should be submitted to The
Ring-tum Phi office, room 208 in
the University Center. The deadline
for submissions is Tuesday at noon.

I 4

General Notes are compiled by Matt
Haar

‘ ho do you think would make the best president?

Josh Levinson, ’93, Ruxton, Md. —

— “Perot because he has the biggest
ears and can best hear the country‘s
complaints.”



Eve McDonald, ’94, Newport, Ark.
—- “Clinton so we can get a new
governor.”

  
   

_ _....----_._..a i,

l
t

 

 

;PAGE4

- ' n ' o '. In ‘. ' p ' n": '1"n"4 “r."I.‘:_"';."z.’a.'r_"r.‘a. ‘L ‘I. 2

.

'- .3. ‘I "-. ’-v. '-.'<. I-. 'r. '.-_ ‘I. "o. ’-, ‘v, ':,'u_"r_‘r. 5.9.9. 1.1. ‘I. W.‘I.9. ’-1.". '*. "I. 5.1. 9.5.5. ". 't.“.“.V.'I'¢'*.".‘I.'l. ‘I.'1.V.'V.V.-‘Vt. 'L‘I;‘(?.'V. W21 '1‘. ‘3..’(.'f..fI‘.‘l»‘Y.‘ IL‘? I T.-.7 71.1.? ‘I. 1‘ 1 1 if V I C. I 3 A‘ u‘ I -‘A I _r pr A‘ _|‘ _u' 33:‘ ,-gr"! .u'_~‘.~'_Ir,~',t',-'.-' 9,1‘.-‘_.\' ,\‘

 

FEATURES

 

ince Washington

and Lee’s coedu-

cation in 1985,

theWomen’sFo-
rum has led women’s
movements on campus,
allowing its members’
opinions to be discussed
in the open.

“The campus allows
students to manage the
programs [on campus].
If students don't ask
[about a specific prob-
lem],wedon’ttalk about
it,” Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-
Lamont said.

EVOLUTION

 

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

colonizations of Delta
Gamma or Pi Beta Phi.

“This campus obvi-
ously revolves around
the Greek movement. I
was very supportive of
the sorority movement,”
Schroer-Lamont said.
“Some [women] were
terribly disappointed
andfelttheirfeetweren’t
on the ground [at W&L]
yet. Many didn’t like
the idea of the divisive-
ness. Today it is still a
toss-up to whether there
is a division [as a result
of sororitiesl.”

The Women’s Forum
met for the first time in
January 1986.

“The first class of women were strong and self-
sufficient. It wasn’t until November 1985 that they
came to me and said they would like to form a women’s
organization,” Schroer-Lamont said.

“The Women’s Forum was not a group of bra-
burning liberals. They worked to get a female doctor in
the infirmary [Dr. Jan Horton], established women’s
varsity teams and woman coaches, planned the Women’s
Center with the Board of Trustees, and eventually
supported the arrival of sororities at Washington and
Lee,” Schroer-Lamont said.

During the second year of coeduca-
tion, male students pressured the
group to change its name to the
gender neutral Trident. A

Trident soon took the place
of the yet-to—be-formed sorori-
ties and became a social group
for women.

They planned a winter for- .
mal, known as the Winter
Slush, and the Confetti’s party
in the spring.

The first class of women contin-
ued to work hard in other areas. They ’ .
especially pushed for a place where women
could casually gather.

The Arlington Women’s Center ﬁnally opened in
1988 during a week of events celebrating its establish-
ment.

Located in the basement of the University Center,
the center consists of a lounge and a study room.

“The second and third classes of women weren’t as
pioneering [as the first class] but rather compliant to
what the remaining all-male classes told them,” Schroer-
Larnont said.

When there were four classes of women at W&L,
three sororities were established on campus: Chi Omega,
Kappa Kappa Gamma, and Kappa Alpha Theta.

In 1989, the Panhellenic Council took control of
regulating sororities.

The Women’s Forum was not involved with the

   
  
 
  
  
   

Group focuses on women’s issues

  
 
  
      

I
 Achtung

Opinions toward so-
rorities at W&L are gen-
erally favorable.

“I think it’s good to have sororities,” junior J.B.
Meek said. It’s as positive an experience as fraternities
are to guys. Women have earned the right and deserve
the same privileges.”

But with the arrival of sororities, the force behind
Trident disappeared and the group ﬁzzled.

Then last year a group of approximately 14 women
felt the need for a network that would be concerned with
women’s issues on campus.

Schroer-Lamont told senior Shannon Comer about
the original Women’s Forum.

Schroer-Lamont thought reestablishing the forum
would be appropriate.
“Any campus where there is a minority of
women, a minority group is needed,” sopho-
more Jen Hickes said.

Today the Women’s Fo-

rum is a support and discus-
sion group with very diverse
opinions among members.
_ On average, 40 people meet
,/ every Sunday night.
“We deal with a variety of topics from eating
disorders and sexual assault videos to abortion
debates to the mandatory one-third women quota set
by the Board of Trustees,” said Comer, who is now the
group’s president.

“The opportunity to discuss issues and be supportive
with other women on campus is very rewarding,” Comer
said.

“The small percentage of women [on campus] lets
you actually have a say in doing something on campus,”
Hickes said.

The Women’s Forum meetings are open to any
student, male or female.

“It’s important that people know it’s not male bash-
ing in any way, shape or form. We have a lot more
important things to discuss,” Hickes said.

Women’s Forum meets Sundays at 7 p.m. in the
Women’s Center.

This is the second story in a two—part series on W&L
women.

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

ne of Washington and Lee’s claims to fame is not
a successful graduate, but rather the once prized
possession of class of 1909 graduate Christo-
pher Chenery.

Chenery was the owner of the1973 Triple
Crown winner Secretariat. “Triple Crown
winners are unusual and rare. It’s unusual
W&L would have such a close connec-
tion to the winner,” Vice President of
UniversityRelations Farris Hotchkiss
said.

According to the alumni maga-
zine, Secretariat was won by the toss
of acoin as the result of an agreement
between Chenery and friend Ogden
Phipps.

Secretariat went on to be called
“The Horse of the Century” by CBS,
the 1972 Horse of the Year, the 1973
Triple Crown winner, and featured on the
covers of Time, Newsweek, National Ob-
semer, and Stw_r1§.Il_lus1rated.

In September 1973, Secretariat won the $250,000
Marlboro Cup, beating stablemate and 1972 Kentucky
Derby winner Riva Ridge.

In all of the races, Secretariat and the jockey could be
seen wearing blue and white, the colors of Chenery’s alma
mater, W&L.

A graduate with a degree in civil engi-
neering and a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Chenery accumulated a sizeable fortune
organizing a utilities holding company.

In 1936, he bought The Meadows in
Doswell, Va., and made plans to convert it
into a thoroughbred breeding farm. By this
time, Chenery had become the chairman of
Southem Natural Gas Company.

Despite his success with utilities,
Chenery was known for the quality of his
broodmares.

Chenery produced 41 stakes winners at
The Meadows.

His filly, Cicada, won the Kentucky
Oaks and retired with $783,674 in cam-
ings, the greatest sum by a filly in the early
1970s.

Chenery owned Iberia, who foaled Riva
Ridge, and Imperatrice, who foaled
Somethingroyal, the mother of Secretariat.

Chenery was also responsible for the
success of the 1959 University Bicenten-
nial.

OOOCampus Reps Wanted0%
HEATWAVE VACATIONS
SPRING BREAK 1993
The best rates & the biggest
commissions. For more Information,

Call 800-395-WAVE

cludiotronics

AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARANTZ
KEF CWD
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA
° SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE sERvIcE CENTER

‘ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
' MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Goto
problem?

A s it:
@Ir.\lil/I

Send questions to Dr.
Worth’s office or to
Carol Caikins in the
University Center. You
do not need to sign
your name.

 

 

sr
FUNDRAISER
ON CAMPUS!

Your student organization can earn
up to $1,500 in just one week
sponsoring a marketing program
for a Fortune 500 Company.

NO SALES

   

NO INVESTMENT
BUILD TEAM WORK
HAVE FUN!

Call T
(800) 592-2 21

Call : 463-7000

Offer expires I2-I8-92

©t989PizzaHut.|nc.

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redlt Cards?

 

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

 

Call Us
and Keep
Cramming.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,
delivered hot and fast to your door.

I-Hut.

Umibd dolvery area

Pizza Hut Delivery. . . Great taste delivered!
© 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

iI"""""""""""""""""I

Student Special  

2 pizzas for the price of 1

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY

WITH COLLEGE ID

Our drivers carry no more than $20. 1/20 cent cash rederrption vaiu

 

  
   
  
  
 
 

The Ring-tum Phl, November 5, 1992

O

|nthewinner’s circle.

Legendary Secretariat owned by W&L alumnus

before Secretariat won the Belmont Stakes and the Triple
Crown. Chenery served 23 years on W&L’s Board of
Trustees and as the co-chair of the university’s 1958-80
development program to a construct a new science building

and renovate Reid Hall.

In 1985, he was inducted posthumously into the Virginia

Sports Hall of Fame.

9

!

I
“Chenery was a very generous donor to the

said

school during his alumni years,” Hotchkiss
' I

‘Chenery had formed a private hold-
ing companyand issued stock within
his family.

In 1973, Chenery’s daughter,
Penny, syndicated Secretariat to

I

pay the high taxes on her late '

father’s estate. Thirty-two inva-
tors paid $190,000 a share, a total
of $6,086,000.

When he died, he left part of the

estate to W&L, which, in part, were
proceeds from Secretariat’s stud fees.
Secretariat’s portrait and silks can
now be seen hanging in Doremus Gym,

and a portrait of Chenery hangs in the Uni-
versity Library. Also, one of Secretariat’s
horseshoes and a certificate of authenticity and thanks
from Chenery is on display in the Alumni House.
“To have one of the truly great horses in the family, one
who wore W&L colors, that is unusual,” Hotchkiss said. “I
bet it hasn’t happened many times before.” .

Secretariat crosses the finish line In the 1973 Belmont Stakes
ChenerydiedJan.3, l973,eightmonths making Triple Cproiyn history. p

*'~ 3' I-I5s"."'.‘ .\-

 
    

% The holidays are almost here!

Let us Custom Design Invitations, Cards or Stationery.
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.



:-
vn
u—-n

PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 W. NELSON ST. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

hm

could own
ihhspoce.
COII463-8581.

W 8: L UNIVERSITY LENFEST SERIES PRESENTS +
I U
N
0
V I
6
I - I
I
, 8
I in
| P
' M
I
I
I I
 Tickets available NOW!

 
    
  
 
 

r I I I I Z X X‘ X I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I Z I X
I STUDENT SERVICES. BOX 17 924. PLANTATION. FL 33318 :
Now you can have two of the most recognized and I V I E

accepted credit cards in the worId...Vlsa® and MasterCard@ I . ‘warn “SAG/MASTERCARD? Cred" I
"Ed" Card-*1--"I" YOU’ Nam‘?-" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed Ilnd S 5 which Is 100% refundable If not I
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! ' approved hnmediately '
VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you I |

deserve and need for— ID—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | NAME '

STORES—TUITION—ENTERTAI NM ENT-— ' .

EMERGENCY (‘ASH—TiCKETS——RESTAURANTS— ADDRESS '
H(TI‘ELS—MOTELS——GAS—CAR RI-3NTALS— ' I
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE _ ZIP I

I I

at
6“ “nﬂti. . ' PHONE I S.S. I
_s,¢gcI;I\§ No credit: _ I SIGNATURE I Q

“5ul'I:'"_¢o 3“ "0 5eC|"‘ItY IIGDOSIU I NOTE Masnacam Is a Iegisima tradennrk d’ Mxtcﬁhrd Intemattoml. Inc. I

got 0,5, I Visa Is a registered tnderrnrk ofVISA USA. inc and VISA Imcmauonai I

I Approval absolutely guaranteed so ' gem“, A,,,c.,m,,, 10°” ouAnAN1_EEm '

I ° .

 

ha

-5
.

‘I

 

F

.4‘

 

The Ring-tum Phl, November 5, 1992

t

Hypnotist entrances students

‘.A|iens, body builders arrive soon

 

PAGE 5

FEATURES

I DeLuca

By JEANNE BIuGGs
Phi Contributing Writer

rdinarily, being put to sleep
at aperforrnance is not a good
sign. But when Tom DeLuca,
hypnotist and psychic, puts
you to sleep, you know you are in for an
exciting and humorous evening.

“We at the SAB heard of his popu-
larity at area colleges,” Student Activi-
ties Board Publicity Director Lewis
Perkins said. “We thought that W&L
students would be receptive.”

DeLuca draws on the imagination
of the audience and the power of sug-
gestion to create an evening of discov-
ery and fun in which he hypnotizes
members of the audience and brings
them on to the stage to perform various
feats.

In past performances these feats
have included speaking like aliens from
other planets and posing in body build-
ing competitions.

“Tom taps into people’s imagina-
tions,” said Barbara Meyer, a spokes-
woman for Admire Presentations,
DeLuca’s agency. “The people who
have good imaginations are the most
fun people.”

DeLuca is very protective of his
audience and is careful not to embar-
rass or humiliate them, Meyers said.

“The person participating wakes up '

relaxed, as though they had eight hours
of sleep,” she said. “Tom uses sugges-
tion to tap into the deeper parts of the
mind.”

DeLuca holds a master’s degree in
psychology, drawing on the discipline
to explore the human mind through
imagination and creativity.

DeLuca began touring college carn-
puses 10 years ago, and has since been
named College Entertainer of the Year
by the National Association for Carn-
pus Activities.

DeLuca also performs for corporate
groups such as the California Bar As-
sociation, and he has appeared on na-
tional television programs including
“CBS Nightwatch” and “Live with
Regis and Kathie Lee.”

Meyer said DeLuca performs at the
University of Virginia every year, and
usually draws a crowd of 8,000 to
10,000 people.

“Students at UVa. often scalp tick-
ets to see Tom perform,” Meyer stated.

DeLuca will perform at the Lenfest
Center on Saturday, Nov. 14 at 7:30
p.m.

‘Dance ensemble heats up Lenfest

. From Lenfest Press Release

he Lenfest Series will present
the choreography of Martha

Graham performed by the

Martha Graham School En-

semble under the direction of former

‘principal dancer Yuriko in the Keller
Theatre.

Graham’s inﬂuence on dance was
enormous, not in her technique but in
the way she used personal expression
in her dancing.

She is recognized today as the great-

Oest American choreographer.

Throughout her career, Graham’s
fundamental tenet was that dance
should reach audiences through a vis-
ceral response rather than an objective
image that registered upon the intel-

lect.

The program
includes three
full- length Gra-
ham classics;
“Acts of Light,”
“Diversion of An-
gels” and “El
Penitente.”

These ballets
trace Graham’s
artistic develop-
ment.

Dancers and
choreographers
acknowledge
Graham’soriginal
movement tech-

niques and her monumental body of
work as the most significant contribu-
tion to dance in this century.

presents

 

“Out of emo-
tion comes
form,” Graham
said.

She then
proved out of
form she could
re-create the
same emotion on
stage. She never
wavered in her
belief that move-
ment could ex-
press inner feel-
ing.

She soughtto
give “visible
substance to
things felt” and to “chart the graph of
the heart.”

These celebrated Graham phrases

ctivities

in the Troubadour
Thursday, Nov. 5, 9 p.m. and

Sunday, Nov. 8, 8 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 6, 8 p.m.

In The Pit

’ . . . . 7{".‘?."3"."3"‘-H-3-R‘l\H"PPM"F3‘?!-3-H-H-5M-5935-3%-5-‘MK?-55-51"!-I4:-I'57}-3-V5533‘?'5-'5CiVD'§-5-'3-I-IV53-3-5'34)!-'§H’§I'!-‘E

became metaphors central to her art.

Modem dance was chieﬂy born in
the United States.

Artists who were rebelling against
old forms created new ways to express
themselves.

The “old form” of dance at the be-
ginning of the 20th century was classi-
cal ballet, which had grown out of
royal dancing.

Hermovement emphasized thenatu-
ral rather than the formal, arbitrary
manner of the highly stylized classical
ballet.

Graham’s dances spoke eloquently
against the cmshing of the human spirit,
and one of her frequent themes was the
conderrmation of intolerance, especially
toward nonconforrnists.

The ensemble performs tomorrow
and Saturday. .

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Luminary
5 RBI, eg.
9 Bouquet flowers

14 Secrete

15 Cleveland's lake
16 La Scala

offering

17 Verbal

18 Be concerned
19 Tuscan

commune
20 Busted. army
style

22 Wander

24 Secret language
25 Porter

26 Turned into

29 Disappeared

gradually

34 Speechify

35 Aesopian tale
36 Yale

37 Marquis de —
38 Fend off

39 Federal agent
40 Plains tribesman
41 Sound track

42 Angry

43 Celebs

45 Gems

46 Parents

47 Actor Guinness
48 Quarters for

oaters
52 Soup ingredient,
sometimes

56 Small role

57 Last word

59 A Fitzgerald

60 Oak output

61 Tidy

62 Verve

613 Kind of 24A

64 Pass catchers
65 Ditto

DOWN
1 Like tame
horses
2 Fatigue
3 Eden dweller
4 Move
5 Withdraw from
membership
6 Swap
7 Tune

 

@1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

8 Abound
9 Cole Porter
musical
10 Believes
11 Spring catalog
item
12 Sea bird
13 German
industrial area
21 weighty volume
23 Before time
26 Crewman
27 Muse
28 West Pointer
29 Helen's lover
30 Spanish river
31 Tough guy
32 Give joy
33 Has a meal
35 Disappear
gradually
38 Heartthrob
39 Metric feet
41 Shellfish
42 News bit
44 Translucent
resins

11/05/92

Last week's answers

 

45 Tilts 51 Rational
47 In advance 53 Jar
48 Swindle 54 Pismo. e.g.
49 Mexican menu 55 “Citizen —"
item 58 Chess
50 Cupid pieces

WLUR weekday radio schedule

Morning Mag (Rock)-Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.

J azz—Monday, 9 a.m.-1 1 a.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m.

AM Overture (Classical)-Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.
Inspirational-Thursday, 9 a.m.-1 1 a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.
Public Affairs-Monday-Friday, 11 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
Country-Monday-Friday, 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
Dance/Rap—Tuesday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.; Friday, 8 p.m.-1 1:30 p.m.
Rock-Wednesday-Friday, 2 p.m.-3 p.m.

Breakthrough Rock-Monday-Friday, 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Classical Showcase-Monday-Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.

Third Ear- Monday-Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

W&L
Faculty and Staff

Individual Subscriptions To
The Ring—tum Phi Now Available

For Only $6

Get The Phi Delivered
To Your University Mailbox

Every Friday
For The Rest Of The Year

No More Quarters,
No More Hassles

Send cash or checks to The Ring-tum Phi, University
Center room 208. Be sure to include your name and

office building.

PAGE 6

Liddy: ‘I’m still guilt’ 

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Contributing Writer

Former Nixon administrator and
convicted Watergate conspirator G.
Gordon Liddy expressed his views on
ethics, morality and the role of govem-
ment in society in Lee Chapel Oct. 29.

“I am one of the few people to be
indicted, tried and convicted of con-
tempt of Congress.And I’m still guilty,”
Liddy exclaimed. In his speech, “In-
side Government: What Really Goes
On,” Liddy addressed the nature of
government both in theory and prac-
tice.

He expressed his dissatisfaction with
what he deemed the excesses of gov-
eminent.

“It’s out of control,” Liddy said.
“It’s not working the way the founding
fathers contemplated.”

Liddy related anecdotes from his
involvement in the Watergate scandal
and the five years that he spent in
prison, including an incident in which
he planted surveillance equipment in
the prison warden’s office.

He compared his testimony on
Watergate to Oliver Nortli’s testimony
on the Iran-Contra scandal, stating that
neither he nor North would allow them-
selves to be questioned first in private
and then in public by the Senate inves-
tigations committees.

Liddy took questions from the audi-
ence that ranged from comments he
had made on his radio program on
WJFK in Washington, D.C. to his opin-
ion on the candidates in the presiden-
tial election.

Liddy, who cannot vote because he
was convicted of a felony, said he
would vote for George Bush in the
election if he could, calling Bush “the
lesser of three evils.” He said that Bill

Clinton’s economic plan, on close con-
sideration, “will not wash.”

He said he supported a term limita-
tion for senators “absolutely,” and
stated that it is time to “force achange.”
Liddy referred to the Congress as a
“House of Lords.” He also said he
supported a line item veto for the presi-
dent as a “discipline on Congress.”

Liddy said Vice President Dan
Quayle is not as incapable as he is often
accused to be, referring to an incident
involving Corazon Aquino in which
Quayle acted calmly and authorita-
tively.

“In stressful situations when the re-
sponsibility is his, he has demonstrated
at least once that he is capable of cop-
ing,” Liddy said.

He said that the most important
short-terrn foreign relations issues fac-

Pho by allory Meyers, The ‘ing-tum Phi
Convicted felon and celebrity G.Gordon Liddy regales students
with stories about politics and prisons.

 

 

ing the next president are the problems
in the Middle East and Yugoslavia.
Liddy said the greatest long-terrn for-
eign policy issue facing the presidency
is the massive rearmament of China.

Liddy said the election this year was
a “clear choice.” A vote for Clinton
would constitute a vote for more gov-
emrnent and higher taxes, while a vote
for Bush would constitute a vote for
less government and lower taxes. But
he said he hoped people would vote
regardless of which choice they made.

Liddy’s speech was sponsored by
Contact, a group funded by the Execu-
tive Committee that brings famous or
nationally acclaimed speakers to Wash-
ington and Lee. Contact members chose
Liddy because they had heard he was
an excellent speaker, according to chair-
man David DeMilt.

Deans nix subscription plan

0 From PHI, page 1

scription on behalf of the student body
earlier this term. Lopiccolo and Peltz
told the committee a subscription plan
would free the EC from liability for
any newspaper debts and would free
the Phi from any EC control.

After receiving Elrod’s letter,
Lopiccolo said the Phi would continue

to charge faculty members for the news- .

paper. I 

“Our reasoningis that they [faculty
members] are receiving a product just
like the students are,” Lopiccolo said
Sunday. “They really need to be pay-
ing their own way.”

In an interview Monday, Elrod re-
sponded by noting that faculty mem-
bers benefit from other student activi-
ties at no cost. For example, faculty
members receive free tickets to Fancy
Dress.

Journalism ethics professor Louis
Hodges said both students and faculty
members benefit from faculty reader-
ship of the Phi.

“We need to know what kinds of
things are on the minds of the student
body,” Hodges said Monday. Faculty
members who attend FD and read the
newspaper, he said, are contributing to
W&L by taking part in the life of the
university. “The goal in all these ac-
tivities is to create community.”

Student Housing Available
for ‘93—‘94. 1 to 5 Bedroom
Houses right outside city limits.
Average Rent $200.

Ask for Mitchell or Mark Scharer
M-F 463-2823 7:30-5:00

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCEI!
Individualsand StudentOrganizations
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call thenation’s leader. Iriter—Campus

Programs 1-800-327-6013

Hodges and journalism professor
John Jennings also warned that charg-
ing faculty for the newspaper could
create the potential for administrative
or faculty Control over the new spaper’s
content.

Jennings and Hodges both said the
Phi should be editorially independent.
But the sub-
s c r i p t i o n
p 1 a_ n ,
Jennings

§caut—ioncd,i I I I

could dimin-
ish that inde-
p e r1 (1 e n c e ,
because pay-
ments from
W&L to the
new spaper
would be “a
discrete
amount of
money that the administration can turn
on and off.”

Lopiccolo saidthe potential forpres-
sure from subscribers is one faced by
newspapers in the real world.

“That kind of constraint applies to
anybody who offers aproductfor sale,”
Lopiccolo said. “It’s a kind of control,
but it’s also the reader’s prerogative.”

The EC can now exercise that pre-
rogative twice a year, Lopiccolo said,
by deciding whether to buy a bulk
subscription to the Phi. That subscrip-

Hodges

 

   
 
  
 

  
 
 
     
       
 

  
   

The College Democrats
would like to thank
the Washington and Lee community

for electing

Bill Clinton

President of the United States
of America.

“The torch has been passed to a new
generation of leadership.”
— John Fitzgerald Kennedy

 

Z////////////// / /  
/ /
/ %
/ . . /
g Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing g
g and Accessories é
Z 23 N. Main sr. (703) 463-5988 ¢
/ Lexington, VA 24450 /

tion, other subscriptions sold to par-
ents and alumni, and advertising rev-
enues are the Phi’s main funding
sources. The Phi also receives some
non-financial support from W&L, in-
cluding an office in the University
Center, electricity for that office and
security.

Both Lopiccolo and Elrod said it is
possible that the cost of those univer-
sity services could be treated as pay-
ment from W&L for faculty subscrip-
tions to the newspaper. * ‘

“I'd be willing to talk to them [the
deans] about that,”Lopiccolo said. “But
[our discussions have] never gotten to
that point.”

Untilthe situation changes, the Phi’s
decision to charge for the newspaper is
likely to mean fewer faculty members
will read it, Hodges and Elrod said.

“I’m an admirer of the Phi,” Elrod
said. “I think it’s very lamentable that
this is going to cause a reduction in the
faculty readership.”

University President John Wilson
told the faculty about the deans’ deci-
sion Monday afternoon, Elrod said,
and the Board of Trustees learned of
the situationduringamectinglastweek-
end in Atlanta. Neither the faculty nor
the trustees took any action in response
to the news.

James Lake is a second-year law
student and a former Phi associate
editor.

  
  
 

  
    

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1992

6

H3«I'I'ISTBEI'BI'~

MEANS LOW PRICES  

 

SAVE $1.00 PER LB.

    

‘REDUCED’

40 - 50 COUNT

MEDIUM
SHRIMP

 399

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS " H

 

8 ‘SP1 it Chirlx

SPI.IT FRYERW

LIMIT 3 WITH
ADDITIONAL

BREA5T$.'?‘.’.".‘.'.'f‘.‘.‘. LB.

   
  
 

2-

 
  

 

WHITE OR RED
POTATOES

7

REDUCED
PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 IITER
$"""

     

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER
COURTESY CARD.

I‘I3lI'IS TGGIBI

YOUR. NAME '
YOUR ADDRESS

YOUR CITY. STATE ‘
X/X oi/oi/oi
1111111

 

IT ALLOWS YOU TO
CASH PERSONAL
CHECKS AT OVER 134
HARRIS TEETER
LOCATIONS IN
GEORGIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA, NORTH
CAROLINA, VIRGINIA
AND TENNESSEE

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS $1.00
COUPON AND SAVE.

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON

VALUABLE 70¢ coupon
64 OZ. CARTON PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

I PREMIUM ORANGE’

E This Coupon McIy_N9t
Be Reproduced. Limit
I One Coupon Per_
Fa_m_IIy, Per Visit With
| MInImumcI;IIrchase of
$10.00. er Good
ru

November 10, I992.

Novem 4

I “9” EN

  

 

” JUICE I
F: 5 9 I
  WITH l
COUPON I

PLU 2171 I

DAIRY I

I

Ilamsieeter

0.:

VALUABLE 30¢ COUPON
HOT on MILD 15.5 oz. JAR

   
   
  

N PRESIDENT'S CHOICE N
I sAI.sA PICANTE ..
,v.::-.:-.-sot
I 3 9 '
I I
I . is U'I3N_ I
I ll';*R2::::3.:“.ri..'t.t.':§._ .. I
_rIe Coupon, Per, ‘-0-’ , .
I II%§lLIa.§':I§I,:;’l'L;:.:'§I I
$I1I(I):'\I°ecI.3er§4r ru Flu 2I97
N Novem r I0, I992. GROCERY N
'°‘v’Ii°’=“ I— '
3 IIIIIISTGBIGI
Li__________J

VALUABLE 40¢ COUPON "

  
    
 

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE 7 oz.
I 0 I I roImI_.I.A CHIPS I
I ANY $3.00 on MORE I I  ¢ -
I PURCHASE IN OUR I E,-,;.;»:I-3* I
I PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I I WSW "gr I
I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I I °°ci.°3'c,,ou7:,.n.‘P‘«;5,ii"' cg‘{,I,T,gN I
I LIMIT ONE coupon PER FAMILY PER VISIT I I ,‘;,',§};,,Y,;,,,°,§ ','{,?)'§} - _ 
OFFER GOOD NOV. 4 mnu NOV. I0, 1992 smyeci. be’e‘I'1(_I‘m   pm 22°, .
I COUPON PRODUCE I Novemiier I0. I992 - _M___ / enocsnv I
I Aw: I I airs." M ‘ / I l
L W Ilanisteeter Pu, ,, ,.,G_| 40¢ Ilarrisfaetet Ql
O 0 g
Prices Effective Through November I0, I 992
Prices In This Ad Eitective Wednesday November A Throug Tuesdag, November IO, I992. In Lexington Stores
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To eaiers. We Giadiy Accept Fecierai Food Stamps.

9

) ‘O.

<1.

i

4

 

    

0

he Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1992

On The Merrill Lynch Fast Track

Interviewing ii: CHARLOTTFSVILLE “:3? December 3 & 4

Resumes will be accepted through November 12th

Meet Kevin Rendino, Carolyn Jones and Patrice
Franco. They participated in the Merrill Lynch
Individual Investor Intern/MBA Program and
their program experience helped them ad-
vance quickly to new professional challenges.
Kevin, Carolyn and Patrice will continue to rely
on what they learned during the program to
help them succeed throughout their Merrill
Lynch careers.

The Intern Program is available to new
college graduates. The MBA Program is avail-
able to new MBAs. These programs can help
put you on the Merrill Lynch fast track. As a
program participant you are offered a challeng-
ing position under the guidance of a senior
manager. Program positions are available in
product development, marketing, operations
and finance.

Throughout the program you are exposed
to firm strategy through meetings with senior
management and you participate in task force
projects which help a variety of business units
to meet their strategic objectives. Formal
classes address career development issues _
and help you enhance your leadership skills.
You are given responsibility and accountability

and your program experience will help posi-
tion you for fast-track success at Merrill Lynch.

Candidates for the Individual Investor
Intern/MBA Program have outstanding records
of achievement in their academics, extracur-
ricular activities and work experience. They
are interested in the challenge of the fast-paced
financial services industry and want to be rec-
ognized for their accomplishments.

If you have the talent, creativity, energy
and commitment to be a winner at Merrill
Lynch, the Individual Investor Intern/MBA Pro-
gram is offering an unequaled opportunity to
excel. To find out more, write us:  

Individual Investor Intem/MBA Program
Merrill Lynch

iP.O. Box 9056
  Princeton, NJ 08543-9056

Igﬁgmerrilllnynch

A tradition of trust.

Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer.
© 1992, Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc.

an»

 

~ ~-.——--——-~---«-—-—~-..
. 1..» <.v.x.1c.1:_x_: n:_n.u.:s¢ur‘- s....

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Football: Bridegwater 20,W&L 12 (4-3)

WP-W&L 9,Dayton 8 (13-10)
MSoc- W&L 3,VMI 2 (8-8)
WSoc- R—MC 2,W&L0 (5-11)

CC-(M) W&L 27,EMC 28 (Win) (19-14)

PAGE 8

S

Clip: Zﬂimg-tum Iﬁhi

PORTS

This Week:

Football- at Guilford 11/7

WP- Eastern D. III Champs. 11/7&8
CC-(M&W) at ODAC Champs. 11/7 0
VB— at ODAC Tourney 11/6&7 ’

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

NOVEMBER 5, 1992

Mitchem

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team was KO’d in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Tournament by a 1-0 loss to
Randolph—Macon College.

The Generals did manage to fin-
ish their I992 campaign with an
election day win over cross—town
challenger Virginia Military Insti-
tute, 3-2, in a game that saw senior
Mike Mitchem tie the W&L school
career assist
record of 22.

Mitchem
wanted to
getthe assist
at home on
Liberty Hall
Fields.

But alas,
could

   

_.‘.«.- ~

Mitchem 

Mitchem left Lexington for the
ODAC Tournament at Virginia
Wesleyan still one assist short, but
was able to equal the mark (held by
Patrick Brown, 1986-89) in Lexing-
ton at neighboring VMI.

He wasted no time, either.
Mitchem assisted on senior Kyle
Fanning’s first half goal to give
W&L a 1-0 lead.

Reid Murphy, a senior tri-cap-
tain, put the Generals ahead 2-0
midway through the second half with
the 28th goal of his W&L career,
ninth of the season.

Washington and Lee kept the
Keydets off the scoreboard for nearly
80 minutes despite a raucous VMI
crowd of a couple hundred cadets.
Then VMI, who beat the Generals
2-0 last year, nailed two scores in a
four minute span to knot the game at
two with six minutes to play.

Senior Michael Hill quieted the
crowd with a breakaway goal with
3:51 left. Reid Murphy gave the
feed for his tearn-leading seventh

W&L assist mark

reaches

assist this year. It was Hill ’s second
goal this season; both were game
winners.

Senior goaltender Mike
Steinbrook kept it that way with
several dazzling second half saves.

The Generals concluded the ’92
season with an 8-8 overall record
and 4-4 in the conference. It was
tenth straight season in which W&L
was at least .500 in the ODAC.

The victory capped off a season
in which the Generals struggled to
consistently find the net through
their first eleven contests, losing
seven of those and being outscored
20-12.

W&L then exploited two weak
teams, Bridgewater and Lynchburg,
for 17 goals in back-to-back games.

The Generals won four of their
final five
g a m e s ,
including
a 3-0 first
r 0 u n d
to u r n a -
ment win
a g a i n st
Hampden-
Sydney
College.

That
shutout
was Steinbrook ’ s seventh of the sea-
son, which placed him, also, in the
school record books tied for the
single-season shutout mark.
Steinbrook started all 16 games this
season and finished with .792 save
and 1.46 goals against averages.

The loss to Randolph—Macon
marked the third straight time, go-
ing back to last season, that W&L
fell to the'Yellow Jackets 1-0.

This week, W&L senior defender
Greg Williams was named first team
All-ODAC for the third consecu-
tive time.

Murphy received a second team
mention. Both players have been
honoredall four years of their ca-
reer.

    

Steinbrook

Women’s

oDAe

chase ends, 2-0

By J USTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

After hitting stride late in the sea-
son, the women’s soccer team ran out

v of steam in Friday’s conference tour-

nament semifi-
nal.

After playing
a scoreless first
half, the Gener-
als were in posi-
tion to upset Old
Dominion Ath-
letic Conference
regular season
and tournament
champions, Randolph—Macon College.

However, R—MC scored just one
minute after halftime and iced the game
with a second goal with five minutes
remaining.

“In the first half both teams played
a very solid game,” said assistant coach
Sarah Ludington. “Tl1ey[R-MC] just
had a little more ﬁre and came out a
little harder in the second half.”

Junior Kate Stimeling made 13 saves
as R—MC outshot the Generals 23-5 in
the 2-0 loss.

The two—goal deficit matched
September’s 3-1 loss to R—MC, but the
Generals had improved greatly and had
a realistic chance to beat the eventual
tournament champions.

“It was much closer than the first
game,” said Ludington.

The team finished the season at 5-

11, but the record alone is misleading.

The Generals finished fourth in the
ODAC with a 5-5 conference record
and played one of the toughest non-
conference schedules in the league.
The squad took on regional powers

 

Moseley

130 S. Main St.

Cannondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.- Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

Mary Washington, Messiah, Method-
ist and Denison.

While senior tri-captain Susan
Moseley’s offense will be missed next
year, she is the only player graduating.
Moseley set season and career assist
records "this year and her passing may
be tough to replace.

But the scoring of junior Angie
Carrington, sophomore Anne Spruill
and freshman Jenni Robison should all
be back next year, along with junior
Corinda Hankins who was in England
for the season. Hankins scored 13 goals
in her first two seasons.

The entire defense will return, led
by juniors Allison Lewis, Kathleen

' Eastland and Aspen Yawars and sopho-

more Marina Jackson.

Lewis and Yawars played solid de-
fense as Eastland and Jackson adjusted
to starting every game marking the
other teams’ top scorers. ‘

The defense gave up fewer than two
goals per game.

Essential to Generals’ stinginess was
the goalkeeping of junior Kate
Stimeling and freshman Mims Rowe.
After a rocky start for Rowe, Stimeling,
last year's all-ODAC and all-state
goalie, returned to the net after starting
five games at halfback. In addition to
solidifying the defense, Stimelin g gave
Rowe time to improve and develop.

“I think I really learned a lot by just
watching Kate play,” said Rowe.

Rowe’s improvement could allow
Stimeling to return to offense nextyear.

More important than the skills that
will return next year is the work ethic
developed by the team.

“They learned how to practice with
intensity,” said Ludington. “They
played at the next level. I think they’ll
take that into next season.”

463-7969

Eagles fly pt W&L, 20-1 2 '1

By SEAN O’RoURxE
Phi Sports Editor

A friend told me an anecdote after
the Generals’ football game against
Bridgewater on Saturday.

He said a Bridgewater player was
asked before the game what his record
was. The player responded, “Four and
one against W&L in the past five years.”

That comment is indicative of just
how intense this rivalry has become.

An added burden for the Generals
was the fact this was theirfourth Home-
coming game of the year.

Well, thanks to the Eagles, W&L is
now 2-2 in those games by way of a 20-
12 loss.

The Generals big problem all year
has been stopping the running attack of
teams with speed. Emory & Henry,
Randolph—Macon, Sewanee and
Bridgewater all had speedy ninners all
had one back gain over 100 yards.

Assistant coach Frank Miriello said
that the lack of team speed on defense
is a concern.

“Speed is a problem for us. We lost
some speed on the outside, and that’s
where teams are beating us.”

The speed that beat the Generals at
J opson Field was in the form of Ronnie
Howard. The junior tailback ran for
186 yards and two touchdowns. He
also had kickoff retums of 61 and 59
yards. Fallon said it was just one of
those days.

“The kids really wanted tobeatthem.
But it was just one of those days when
it didn’t function. There are no ex-
cuses.”

After a scoreless first quarter, the
Eagle defense decided to jump-start
the scoreboard.

The Generals were inside their own
25 when Geren Steiner tried to hit tight
end Josh Levinson in a crowd. The
Eagles’ stand-out free safety, William
Prince, stepped in front of Levinson
and picked it off. Prince then took off
down the left sideline, broke a few
tackles and dashed into the end zone.

The extra point attempt failed, and
the score was 6-0.

The Generals’ offense was stuck in
neutral for_most of the first half. Fallon
said the tearn’s “timing was off.” But
they mounted a final drive with a few
minutes to go in the half.

Steiner-to-Propst was the most-used
phrase in the radio booths during the
game.

William Propst caught six balls for
65 yards in the first half, and he was the
main target on the final drive.

The Generals moved inside the
Eagles’ 20. From there, Steiner threw
a perfect timing pass to Propst in the
comer of the end zone.

The comer back had great cover-
age, though, and the ball just bounced
off Propst’s chest. W&L settled for a
Drew Thomas 35-yard field goal at the
buzzer. The lead was now 6-3.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Hing-um hi

 

William Propst tries to avoid an oncoming Bridgewater linebacker after hauling in one of his career-
high 13 receptions. Propst’s outstanding day propelled him into the ODAC lead with 40 catches cm

the year.

Fallon wasn’t pleased with the lack
of points, but he thought the offense
was doing a good job in other areas.

“They didn’t do anything we didn’t
expect,” Fallon said. “I was pleased
with the way we picked up the blitzes.
We didn’t do a good job scoring.”

gutsy decision; On the road, in front of
a hostile crowd, Fallon decided to go
for two.

“We practiced too hard all week to
tie,” Fallon said.

With the ball spotted on the left
hash-mark, W&L ran a roll-out play to

Bridgewater the right. The
wastednotimein- play was de-
creasing their lead signed to draw

to 10.Howard took
a handoff up the
middle, made two
beautiful cuts and
raced for six.

“In the second
half we kept the

 

the linebackers
up to the line of
scrimmage and
have a General
slip behind them
into the end zone.

The intended

quarterback under receiver,Tommy
control, but Mason, got held
Howard hurt us on up at the goal line
two plays up the and slipped. By
middle,” said thetimehegotto
Miriello. his feet, the line-
W&L .put to- backers had con-
gether anothernice verged on Steiner
drive, but it stalled and tackled him
at the Eagles’ 35. at the one.
Thomas then made ' “No second

his second ﬁeld goal of the game from
42 yards out. _

Half—way through the fourth, the
Generals got a lucky break and capital-
ized on it. The Eagles came on a blitz,
which opened the middle of the field.
Steiner found Wilson Moore just hang-
ing out in the open space, and Moore
took off from there.

He received excellent down-field
blocking and used that to rumble‘ 76
yards for the Generals first touchdown
of the afternoon.

With the lead one, Fallon made a

thoughts,” Fallon said, “I never think
of that. It would have worked, but
Mason got tied up and fell. Ithought we
still had a chance to come down and
kick it[a field goal].”

The Generals did get that chance.
With a little more than five minutes to
go, the Eagles just had to keep rurming
the ball as effectively as they were.

Instead, Eagles’ quarterback Ned
Atkins tried to hit receiver Mike Ergle
on a curl. Free safety Marc Newman
made a mad dash for the receiver and
cut in front of him.

Somehow, even on the dead run,
Newman hung onto theball for a huge
interception.

The Generals moved the ball into
Bridgewater territory. For Fallon, rig:

drive was for a ﬁeld goal. I H
“We were playing for the ﬁeld goal. '

Get in kicking distance and then play
with the clock.”

The Generals faced a second and six
at the Eagles’ 34. The Generals went to
an out pattern to Propst three stari
times. They were stopped on secon ,
third and fourth.

It was a play Fallon had faith in.

“I was so confident we can com-
plete that pass. I told Geren just bring it_
down. But we couldn’t get it.”

Bridgewater would tack on seve
more on a 58-yard touchdown burst b
Howard with under a minute to play.

The 20-12 loss dropped the Gener-
als to 4-3, 1-3 in Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference play.

The good news was the play of
Propst. He caught a career—high 13
passes for 133 yards. Ir1 two game?
against Bridgewater, Propst has 23
catches. The 13 receptions moves
Propst past Randolph-Macon’s Garry
Carter for the ODAC receiving lead
with 40 catches.

W&L must regroup and prepare for
Guilford next week. It's their final‘.

ODAC game, and their final Home- ‘

coming game.

Fallon says the Bridgewater loss
can’t deter their preparation.

“We’re all frustrated, we had op-
portunities. But we can’t let it affect
this week. We have to block it out, and
use it as a learning experience.”

Polo falls to Arkansas’ otherpower

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

Throughout the entire regular sea-
son, the Generals water polo team
worked towards playing their best in
the post season tournaments.

W&L finished the Southern Con-
ference Championships at 3-1, good
enough for second place. With only
one tournament left, the team stands at
13-10.

The weekend started off with a
match against Richmond. The two
intrastate foes had split their previous
four meetings. This finah deciding
game went to the Generals, 8-7.

Head coach Page Remillard said
W&L continued to use the same tactics
they used in their last game against the
Spiders, an 8-6 victory. '

“As we expected, Richmond didn’t
look at what we did to them in that [8-
6] game, they looked within. So our
defense worked as well as it did in the
other game,” said Remillard.

The next game turned out to be the
sole loss for the Generals in the touma-
ment. The Generals were unable to
make a fourth quarter rally, and lost to
the eventual champion, the University

of Arkansas-Little Rock, 9-6.

“The game was not a three goal
game,” commented Remillard. “We
were down by one late, and we took a
chance, trying to score a goal, and they
were good enough to beat us. Then we
went out on a limb to come back, and
they scored again.”

Everyone got into the act against
Hampden-Sydney, as W&L pounded
the Tigers, 19-12. Senior co-captain
Chris Hagge and freshman Rich Cober
tallied three goals each, while senior
Andrew Pearson and freshmen Frank

. Braden and Bryan Drum contributed

two each.

W&L rounded out their weekend
schedule with Dayton. Dayton stayed
close, and was actually leading at one
point, but the team kept its composure
and moved on to a 9-8 win. Golub
scored five goals, and junior Jacob
Berrnan contributed three.

“What matters is what happens at
the end of the season, and we never lost
focus of that,” said Remillard.

This weekend the Generals start the
Division III Eastern Championships at
Cy Twombly Pool. W&L enters as the
top seed, followed by Johns Hopkins,
who they lost to earlier in the season,
and MIT.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring—rum Phi

Junior Greg Golub sets up the Generals offensive attack. Golub
has been the focal point of the team’s offense this year, and his

play earned first team All-Southern alter this weekend’s tourna-.

ment. .

VARNER 8: POLE

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

You too can have on exciting
future in The world of advertising!

ADOPTION OPTION
Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant.
We have college degrees; and we both work in education
Our hobbies are music, golf, and church activities.
if you wish to talk with us, please call

1-800-296-2367

Go FUN PLACES, MEET INTERESTING PEOPLE!
CALL BENJY 463-8581

O -‘VF-C‘

 

    

be ;_' 

"“‘riov 1 6 1992

V

TURN IT UP

Get The Scoop
On The Latest Releases
From Three Hot Bands

Generals Go For Six -

W&L football faces Hoyas,

look to post best record
since 1985

§

Lltitt

-tum Iﬂlti

  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
   

VOLUME 92, NO. 10

Phi Delt
sentence
upheld

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

19m DeltaTheta’s kitchen doors will
emain closed for the rest of the semes-
er, despiteaplea by PhiDeltparents to
econsider the punishment by the fra-
*~emity house corporation.

According to Dean of Students
David Howison, the house corporation
ooQtime to reconsider the punishment
after parents of Phi Delt members com-
ulained that the decision was too harsh.
. ' The house corporation’s decision
‘_ to revoke Phi Delt’s dining privileges
u d suspend social functions came af-
ter a $500 chair was broken and bath-
ooh: stall partitions were pulled down
on Homecoming weekend.

. Phi Delt House Corporation Presi-
dent John McIntyre said the house cor-
poration seriously considered the par-
ents’ concerns, but said the house had
to remain shut down.

‘We decided for lots of reasons to
tay on the course we had previously
set,” McIntyre said.

But Phi Delt parent Frank Surface
said Monday that the punishing pro-
" cess was unfair.

“From what I’ve heard, it seems
awﬂilly harsh,” Surface said. ‘ ‘ I don’t
see how they can really judge what
happened when [the house corpora-
tion] is not a group tl1at’s even on
campus.”

Phi Delt President Jim Eddings said
the case is closed.

..“We’re just looking forward to

January.”

I’

Scholars to continue, for now

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi
University President John D. Wilson explains W&L’s mission statement Wednesday night.

Wilson sees slow growth

priority on the university’s agenda, but the sports facilities
and fields also need minor improvements.

Wilson said the university’s mission statement is in-
tended to help W&L “find itself in the huge, sprawling,
untidy system of higher education in the United States.”

Wilson said he does not believe minority or women's
studies departments have a place at W&L.

“Our attempt to develop and study those areas within our
main-1 ine ﬁelds is far preferable to having individual depart-
ments,” Wilson said.

One questioner asked Wilson whether the fraternity
system would ever be returned to complete student control.

“We had a period of 25 years where there was very little
responsibility to thepphysical structures [in the fraternity’
houses] ,” Wilson said. "If the real question is whether or not
we will go back to the old days when you could tear the heck
out of the house—no.”

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

University President John D. Wilson told a crowd of 35
Wednesday night that, after a decade of revolutionary
changes, he forsees only “evolutionary development” in
W&L’s future.

In a Graham—Lee-Washington Society discussion about
the university’s mission statement, Wilson said that after
coeducation, the creation of two new science majors and the
construction of Gaines Hall and the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts, only small improvements in the university
are left to make. 

“I see a period of slow, deepening, evolutionary devel-
opment,”.Wilson said.

Wilson said the creation of a science center is the first

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 12, 1992

Police record
student tags
for car tax

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

Just how far will Lexington go to
assess the car tax on students?

They could be breaking the law.

Washington and Lee University

A senior John Godfrey said he saw a city

police officer in a university parking
lot, recording license plate numbers.

Godfrey said when he attempted to
drive out of the parking lot the police
officer blocked his exit with the police
car, until he could write down the li-
cense plate number. Godfrey said at
the time he didn’t believe the ofﬁcer
had done anything wrong, but when he
spoke to friends he began to wonder
about the policeman’s actions.

W&L Director of Security Mike
Young said the university allows po-
lice on university property anytime.

“We depend on the Police Depart-
ment to help us out, so we let them on
our property,” he said.

W&L Professor of Law Scott

. Sundby said the policeman was within

the limits of the law when he was in the
W&L parking lot.

“It’s not illegal for him to write
down the [license plate] numbers,”
Sundby said. “That’s why they make
[license plates].”

Sundby said the policeman acted
incorrectly when he blocked Godfrey’s
exit from the parking lot.

“That is essentially a seizure,”
Sundby said. “You have to have some
suspicion to make a seizure. It's a tech-
nical violation of the Fourth Amend-
merit.”

Although policemen are allowed on
university property, Sundby said, they
are not allowed on private property
without an invitation or a warrant.

“You’d hear a hue and cry if
homeowners found police ofﬁcers in
their driveways,” Sundby said.

Lexington police Chief B.M. Beard
refused to comment on the situation,
saying he would need more details and
proof that it actually happened.

University President John D. Wil-
son said he could not comment on the
officer’s actions because he did not
know the officer’s intentions.

Wilson acknowledged police can
getstudent license plates numbers while
on campus, but said he would not help
the police in their search.

“I’m not going to turn over our ‘

registration list to the commissioners
office,” Wilson said.

Lexington Commissioner of Rev-
enue Courtney Baker said she gives
police a list of places to look.

“We’re not doing anything in the
dark here,” Baker said. “We have al-
ways used every resource possible to
make the assessments. I don't think it's
unreasonable to expect people to pay a
tax on a car if they have it here most of
the year.”

By GREGORY PATTERSON

to kill the program, many current scholars partments to see if they serve the same pur-

 

Phi News Editor

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 

The University Scholars program will con-
tinue to operate and accept new members
while a committee decides its fate.
‘At a Nov. 2 meeting, the faculty did not
vote on a motion introduced last month to
eliminate the program. Instead, a committee
A of faculty and students was formed to study
the program and recommend in the spring
. whether it should be continued.
“The committee will study all the possible
i midifications of the program,” Scholars advi-
. sor John Evans said.
At the October faculty meeting, the Courses
and Degrees Committee recommended elimi-
' nating the program because it was not fulﬁll-
ing its original purpose. In its evaluation, the
committee surveyed professors and graduates
ofihe program, but not current students.
According to the W&L Catalog, the hon-
ors program provides “extra challenge and
opportunity” for qualified students, who take
discussion seminars and must write an honors
thesis. Students who complete the program
graduate with the notation “with honors” on
tlpir transcript.
After hearing about the recommendation

 

voiced their opposition. Dean of the College
John Elrod said the protests weighed heavily
in the decision to table the recommendation.

“It caused the committee to think twice,”
Elrod said.

Elrod said the new committee, which in-
cludes six professors and three students, will
first have to think
about the nature of
honors work.

_“Before they
think about the
University Schol-
ars specifically,
they should think
from the ground up
about what honors
work should be at
the collegiate
level,” Elrod said.

Then, Elrod
said, the commit-
tee will have to
compile data about the University Scholars’
history, such as the number of people who
have completed the program and what grades
they have received.

Elrod said the committee will also exam-
ine honors programs within individual de-

Jackson

 

. All Freshman Women
Lambda Chl Alpha
Non-Fratemlty

Sigma fhl Epsllon
Kappa Sigma

Freshman mid-term grades

pose as the University Scholars program.

Meanwhile, Evans said, students will con-
tinue to be admitted to the program.

“The program will continue in its present
form,” Evans said. If the new committee does
decide to eliminate University Scholars,Evans
said, the program will be phased out, rather
than abruptly stopped, so all members will be
able to graduate from the program.

Evans said applications are being accepted
from next year’s freshman class, but current
freshmen and sophomores may also apply
before Thanksgiving.

Students are usually admitted to the Uni-
versity Scholars program before entering fresh-
man year, though freshmen and sophomores
are admitted to the program during the year.

Elrod said the committee will report its
findings in the spring to the Courses and
Degrees Committee, which will make a rec-
ommendation to the full faculty.

Scholar Matt Jackson said he was relieved
about the decision and said he hopes the result
of the study will be a new and improved
program.

“I think we showed a willingness, not just
to preserve the program, but to work with
professors to mold it and make it better,”
Jackson said.

.973
2.829

By J .D. LOWRY
Phi Law School Writer

2784 ‘
2.772
2.724 '

Over two months after it began, the 1992 John W. Davis
Moot Court Competition will finally come to a close next

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

Movin’ on up

Workers begin to raise the roof on the Watson Gallery Wednesday. The
oriental art gallery is due to be completed in the spring.

Law students clash in Mootcourt finals

A lay student’s guide to the games

our nation's judicial system. Besides, it’s fun to
go and watch to see if anyone really screws up or,
alternately, remains unfazed by technical prob-
lems beyond their control.

By J .D. Lowrw
Phi Law School Writer

0 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
PI Kappa Alpha

Phi Kappa Psi

Chi Psl

Sigma Chi

All Freshman Men
Kappa Alpha

All Freshman Pledges
Slgma Nu

Phi Delta Theta

Phi Gamma Delta

Phi Kappa sigma

Pl Kappa Phi

Beta Theta Pl

2.714
2.712
2.671
2.637‘
2.597
2.592
2.588 '
2.561
2.535’
2.451
2.372
2.35
2.252
2.205

2 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 3
Grade Point A verage

Statistics provided by the Dean of Students Ollice
with the permission of the lnterlraternlty Council

 

Thursday when four finalists argue a fictional Supreme
Court case.

Virginia Supreme Court Chief Justice Harry Carrico,
North Carolina Supreme Court Chief Justice James Exum
and Florida Supreme Court Justice Leander Shaw. will
preside over the final rounds of the competition, which pits
law students against one another in the fictional case of Holy
Fundamentalist Church v. City of Danburg. The finals will
be Nov. 19 at 4 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

The competition is named for John W. Davis, aW&L law
professor in the 1950s. Davis is best known today for
representing the school board in Brown v. Board of Educa-
tion, the landmark Supreme Court desegregation case.

Forty-eight second- and third—year law students partici-
pated in this year’s competition, which began Sept. 3. with
a round of arguments before student judges.

This year’s problem involves a decision by the fictional
City of Danburg to allow a Jewish Community Center to
display a menorah on city property during Hanukkah.

The Holy Fundamentalist Church sued to stop the city
from allowing the display. The church argues that by allow-
ing the display the city was endorsing the Jewish religion.
The city contends refusal to allow the display would violate
the Jewish Community Center’s freedom of speech.

If you go to Thursday’s final rounds in the ,
John W. Davis Moot Court Competition expect-
ing a coherent and thought-provoking debate,
you are likely to be sadly disappointed.

The point of Moot Court competition is to give .
competitors the opportunity to learn how to argue
an appellate case, which is by no means an orderly
process. Appellate advocates must be able to
think on their feet and answer, with speed and
precision, questions posed by the judges relating
to the subject matter of their arguments, usually in
mid—sentence.

The questions and the arguments are highly
specific. For the spectator, this boils down to one
statement of cruel truth: If you haven't done the
research yourself, you probably aren’t going to
understand much of what’s going on.

This warning is not meant to discourage any-
one from attending the Davis ﬁnals. For those
contemplating acareer at the bar, observation of
the finalists as they nimbly field obtuse questions
about minute points of law will provide a wonh—
while glimpse at the actual processes underlying

Many law students believe Doug Kilday got a
serious edge in last year’s competition when the
bells in Lee Chapel started ringing during his
argument . He remained calm, didn’t lose his train
of thought and he won. (Unfortunately, this year’s
competition is being held in the Lenfest Center,
so no one will be ableto repeat this coup de grace.)

If you’re interested in constitutional law and
want to try to follow the arguments, here are some
keycases and phrases to listen for:

The three-pronged Lemon test. No, it isn’t a
weird method of telling fortunes with fruit or
anything like that. Law students love multi-
pronged tests of applicability, and this year's
Moot Court problem offers a doozy. The case of
Lemon v. Kurtzman offers a mechanism for courts
to deal with an Establishment Clause challenge.
Government activity may be continued without
violation of the Establishment Clause if it has a
secular purpose, if its principal or primary effect
is not to advance or inhibit religion, and if it does

CI See GUIDE, page 5

 

PAGE 2

  

filriz iaing-tum iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Leave honor
to the students

The Board of Trustees met two weeks ago in Atlanta. On the
agenda was the traditional Executive Committee report on the Honor
System, which always draws the attention of the board. But this time the
report received more attention than usual.

We would like to have reported in the news pages exactly what
happened. The problem is, we don’t know. And neither, it seems, does
anyone else. Versions of that weekend vary from person to person, and
all the more from day to day.

Included in EC President Josh MacFarland’s report to the .
Board of Trustees was an account of last year’s only open hearing, in
which a student was dismissed.

It just so happens that the dismissed student has a relative in the
university's alumni administration. We do not know if there is a connec-
tion, but members of the Board of Trustees apparently received a number
of letters questioning the outcome of the case. (The dismissed student
said last week she has no knowledge of this subject relative to the Board
of Trustees.)

According to several students, many alumni in the dismissed
student’s home state were also contacted and asked to participate in an
effort to have her conviction reversed and to have her reinstated at the
university.

Here’s where it gets sketchy.

One source told us that in Atlanta the board actually discussed
finding a way to return the dismissed student to the W&L classroom. The
debate may have gotten as far as a vote. MacFarland appropriately
objected, and the motion was rejected.

On the other extreme, a second version of the story says that the
board dutifully passed along the letters questioning the case’s handling
to MacFarland and the EC. The board said it would never presume to
affect the Honor System, giving the student government the option of
ignoring the letters, considering them, acting on them or whatever.

And there is a third story, which says adminstrators, and
possibly the Board of Trustees, discussed allowing the dismissed student
back at W&L to audit courses unofficially. Whether any board or EC
action would have been necessary for this option is unclear.

(You might be interested to know that the first two scenarios
came from the same person in one 24-hour period.)

It could be the death knell for the student-autonomous Honor
System if the Board of Trustees or university administration were to take
any action running contrary to the letter or spirit of the White Book. The
Executive Committee and the Honor System are the only branches of
student government in which the university faculty and administration
have not meddled, be the meddling for better or worse. According to at
least one version of the story, MacFarland recognized this and prevented
any further incursion into the students’ self-govemment. If this was the

case, we appreciate MacFarland’s actions. .
But we would like to suggest that the very fact that the board,
the administration or alumni may have considered altering or circum-

venting the Honor System is a threat to that system. The report of the EC (
president to the board on the Honor System_ should not provoke disc't_is- ‘
sion of any specific case unless thereis evider'ice’of some extraordinary I

miscarriage of justice. Even then, any decision regarding the fate of the
Honor System or any honor matter previously handled by student
representatives should be made with due discussion in an open forum
where student voices carry equal weight.

The future of the Honor System should never be discussed
behind doors closed to all students. Likewise, once a case goes to open _
hearing, it should never be re-adjudicated in a less-tlian-open hearing
room. The Board of Trustees and the university administration must
remember that the Honor System was created as a student check on
student behavior. It has become apparent to us that many university
officials, in Lexington and elsewhere, do not feel bound by our ideal of
honesty. It seems hypocritical that those same officials should presume
to alter a tradition they neither comprehend nor practice.

Quote of the Week

Hello, you've reached the Institution for the Sexually Frustrated Pyro-
necro-beastiphiliacs. As soon asI'mdone with this ﬂaming dead cat, I ' 11
call you back.

— W&L students’ answering machine message

When you say one thing, but you mean a mother.
— definition of a Freudian slip, courtesy of Cliff at Cheers

Clip: iktng-tum lﬁlti

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor. ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phi1 Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Wl1itney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._. . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ri/ng-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia ,

24450

 

   

,--V

i\\i{{‘\.
.. “W.

E—«-,- j ,
E55 .t;1;.~,

FEE x.‘oa‘.:.
(«E2-'11:.-’~'-3
taéi x71’-

5'1: /’ 

6.--._=_ -

\=.5..'=\

".=\ /
¢._‘,‘_\ 4/.
\"-\

'\

_lr Xi‘. \‘
gas“ 7''‘!

 
    
  
 
  

  
  

Clinton needs to read lips

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS

Tribune Media Services

Little Rock, Ark.—In the earlymoming hours
after victory here, Bill Clinton arrived tortur-
ously late to a rally of campaign workers. With
confetti clinging to his coat, the President-elect
came to seal a covenant: he would not become, he
swore, yet another prisoner of the White House.
He would retain the umbilical cord between
himself and the people who had nurtured and
protected his candidacy.

This post-midnight oath at the Little Rock
convention center is the most worthy promise of
the 1992 campaign. Rather than command we

read his lips, the new leader committed himself to it

read ours. ~

But who will make sure that he does? Plenty
of Washington, D.C. barbers stand ready to cut
Bill Clinton’s thick hair. Who stands ready to
keep the new President’ s head
itself from getting too inﬂated
and out of control; too in love
with the notion of a second
Camelot?

Who will whisper to him
beneath the lilting strains of
“Hail to the Chief” that the
music and the big-picture
summitry and the White
House itself are incidental to
the job of rescuing the Ameri-
can dream?

The likely suspects are
those same, feet-on-the-
ground folk who helped

right.’

 

‘He ran an outstand-
ing campaign,’ Dan
Quayle said of the
Democratic President-
elect. ‘If he runs the
country as well as the
campaign, we’ll be all

Wise words.

Stan Greenberg. Two hours later, Clinton and Al
Gore appeared outside the govemor’s mansion
wearing the dark blue suits of office. The impres-
sion was unmistakable. The grubby business of
politics and elections was being left to the grunts;
the fine business of government was being taken
up by less soiled hands.

We've seen something like this before. Four
years ago, after winning a brass knuckle bout with
Michael Dukakis, the winner declared the carn-
paigri “history” and moved briskly to a more
pleasant topic, George Bush’s own long-awaited
succession to the office Ronald Reagan had been
keeping from him the last eight years.

The seeds of Bush’s political destruction were -
, planted that very day. Having won the presidency
with the help of Peggy Noonan‘, the eloquent I

speechwriter who’d grown up in the Sears Roe‘-
buck suburbs of New Jersey, and Lee Atwater,
who had made his name running South Carolina
campaigns against people named Tumipseed, he
turned to others when he took
office. Bush shifted power to
people like Nicholas Brady,
his new treasury secretary;
Richard Darman, his new
budget director; people with
neither feel nor fondness for
Americans who, unfamiliar
with the grand ﬁscal matters
of state, are nonetheless all
too familiar with less celes-
tial realities, like telling a
teen-ager there’s not enough
money for that college he’s
been dreaming about.

Clinton get there, that

youngish team who kept the

election ’s central issue theirown irreverent motto:
“The economy, stupid!”

The danger lurks that these roughnecks of the
campaign trail will be bumped aside by those
more groomed to the ways of official Washing-
ton, just as a group of Clinton-Gore aides went to
their favorite Little Rock eatery one night last
week to find their favorite room reserved for the
newly-arrived crowd of “FOBS” or “Friends of
Bill.” Suddenly those who worked to put Clinton
in the White House were sensing the chilling
presence of those who’d met the candidate at
Oxford or Yale law, those with the credentials to
serve in national office yet incapable of an exis-
tential leap like those who joined the trail back
when victory seemed uncertain, if not downright
unlikely.

The day after election produced another sign
of partition between campaign and government.
At noon came a press briefing featuring casually-
dressed aides such as James “Ragin’ Cajun”
Carville, Paul Begala, Mandy Grunwald and

For his taste in company-
Ivy League, old money, so-
cially confident—George
Bush paid a price last Tuesday. The country has
paid an even higher one.

There is justice in what the voters did. They
rejected a President who was as stunned by his
first meeting with a supermarket price scanner as
Jimmy Carter appeared in an earlier election year
by a killer rabbit. He was beaten by campaign
workers aware of real people, those who don’t
dare enter a supermarket without having checked
the prices themselves and clipped the coupons
from the newspaper.

Clinton has promised to read the lips of such
folk. And if he’s smart, which he is, the Arkansas
governor will stay within complaining distance
of those campaign folks who helped put him in a
position to make, that presidential promise.

“Herananoutstanding carnpaign,”Dan Quayle
said of the Democratic President-elect. “If he rims
the country as well as the campaign, we’ll be all
right.”

Wise words.

©1992 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

   
 

_ 9
The Ring-tum Phl, November 12, 1992

Americans '
shrugged in a
voting booth  

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group ’

Washington—A dozen N ovembers ago, at the dawn of a

conservative presidential era, Walter Mondale, in his grace- ,

ful concession speech as vice president spoke of the majesty
of the people wielding “their staggering power.” Only four

. times in American history has one party held the preside cy

for more than 12 consecutive years (the Republicans h ve

not since 1896-1912) and this year the people's decision was «
« a kind of continent-wide shrug: Might as well try someone

else.
Sixty-two percent of those who voted, voted against the

incumbent president. But 57 percent voted against the next ‘

president. Ross Perot’s dalliance interruptus with the elec-
torate produced a plurality president. No novelty, that.
From 1824 (the first election in which most electoral
votes were determined by popular voting rather than voting
in state legislatures) through 1992 there have been 43
elections. In 15 the winner received less than a majority of
popular votes. Only four times has the winner received less

than 44 percent, but two strong presidents, Lincoln gd V
d

Wilson, received 39.8 and 41.8 respectively. Wilson
Nixon (who won a first term with just 43.4 percent) won re-
election.

Although Clinton got just 43 percent of the popular vote,

his 69 percent of the electoral votes is much better than the .

56.4 percent of the popular vote. In fact, the 1992 result
resembles the 1912 three-way race when Wilson’s 41.8
percent of the populartvote won him 81.9 percent of the

electoral votes. The disparity between Clinton’s popular .

and electoral vote percentages resembles Eisenhower's

disparities in 1952 (55.1 popular and 83.2 electoral) and v

Reagan in _1980 (50.7 popular and 90.8 electoral), two
elections when previous voting patterns were emphatically
ruptured.

In their four most recent victories prior to Tuescﬁy,

Republican presidential candidates won a stunning average -'
of 91 percent of the electoral votes—better than the 88.3 _

percent that FDR won in four victories. On Tuesday Bush
won just 31 percent. But Republican strength was already
ebbing four years ago, when Bush did worse among Demo-
crats than any. Republican had done since 1952. Dukakis,
although now derided, did unite his party, winning bacb a
majority of “Reagan Democrats” ( who were just 7 percent
of the electorate). Bush was the ﬁrst Republican to win a first
term while his party was losing strength in both the House
and Senate.

This year Bush became, in part, a belated casualty of his
greatest success, the Gulf War. His postwar popularity
convinced him he could coast to re—election, relying on his
nimbus rather than an agenda. Bush’s campaign confirmed

historian Robert Conquest’s droll law: The behavior of an '

organization often can be predicted by assuming it to be

controlled byacabal of its enemies. But Bush ’s campaign-

constant improvisation revealing consistent insincerity—

‘was condign-.punishinent‘of5the Republican Party for‘mak-
., ...--. ~ ~ ,;,_.,:.'

' ing Buslritslleader.“ ’

Democrats are government enthusiasts: They are unsu're
what justice is, but are sure that only government can deliver
it. Their activism is both a cause and consequence of
“interest-group liberalism”—belief in brokering maximum
satisfactions for the maximum number of factions. Repub-

licans, being less comfortable brokering interests, require a 3‘
higher quotient of appealing ideas, both to motivate the -, '

selves and attract supporters. Hence the party should ot

have put itself in the hands of a person so unlike the 1

“conviction politician” who preceded him in the presidency.

Bush lacked authority, a derivative of convictions con-
nected to passions. The epitaph of his presidency could be
Kingsley Amis’ pbem “The Masters”:

That horse whose rider fears to jump will fall,

Riﬂemen miss if orders sound unsure;

They only are secure who seem secure;

Who lose their voice. lose all.

As usual, and contrary to naive expectations, incumbents
were not an endangered» species on Tuesday. Only three
incumbent senators lost and 93 percent of House incum-
bents won. Those numbers explain this one: In all of the 14

states where the political class could not prevent the peorﬂe . ’

from voting on term limits for U.S. senators and represen-
tatives, the people imposed limits to enhance political
competition. As a step toward radical reform of Washin gton’s
political culture, this is potentially more important than the
presidential result.

The unsentimental cashiering of the incumbent president
expressed the electorate’s exhilarating sense that son9e
chafing restraints have been shed——a cheerful belief that
risks can be taken. Today the nation is more physically
secure from foreign attack than at any time in its 216 years.
Domestically, it is a nation with problems—but it is a
temperate, prosperous, successful nation with problems.
The importance of this election, historically, is that it was
the least important election since the 1920s. 0

The electorate seems to have cast a cold eye on govem-
ment and politicians and decided that it and they have only
limited purchase on only some problems. Hence the sense of
a nation serious but unenthralled. Hence at the end of the
campaign, the continental shrug: Might as well try someone
else.

©1992, Washington Post Writers Group 9

Students can protect Goshen Pass environment a .  

To the Editor:

LETTERS

For many students, the Goshen Pass
section of the Maury River is the ideal
place to get away from it all. With its

beautiful scenery, climbable rocks, and V

cool whitewater, it offers the ideal set-
ting to relax and return to what’s really
important.

Today, we have an opportimity to
protect this valuable resource for fu-
ture students and for future Virginia
residents. Goshen Pass is currently
under consideration for designation by
the Commonwealth of Virginia as a
protected Tier III, Outstanding Re-
source River. Basically, such a desig-
nation would preserve existing water
quality by preventing the issuance of
new permits to discharge treated or
other waste into the protected section
of the river. Existing permits would be

grandfathered into law.

The State Water Control Board is
asking interested parties to comment
on the designation through this Mon-
day. We should all write and encour-
age the State Water Control Board to
make such a designation.

In our letter, we should try to ad-
dress why we believe the Board should
make such a designation. The regula-
tion requires that a Tier III waterway
provide (1) an exceptional environ-
mental setting, and (2) either excep-
tional aquatic communities or excep-
tional recreational opportunities.
Therefore, our letters should address
the exceptional setting and recreational
opportunities available at the Pass. In

other words, simply tell the State Wa- »

ter Control Board why the Pass is so
special and important to us as students.

This designation is not without op-
position. The community of Goshen
has voiced its official disapproval of
the measure. Apparently, they believe
that designating the Pass as a Tier III
area would discourage industrial de-
velopment and prevent the construc-
tion of a sewage treatment plant in the
town.

Those in favor of the designation
rightfully disagree with the official
town position. Supporters question
whether the town of Goshen is suited
for future industrial development. A
narrow, winding highway provides the
main access to the town. In addition, as
evident from the recent factory clos-
ings in Buena Vista, the trend in this
area has been for industry to move out,
rather than move in. Consequently, if
industry looked to develop in

Rockbridge County, it probably would J

be more attracted to the recently va-
cated industrial sites just a few miles
down the road in Buena Vista.
However, even if industry decided
to develop in Goshen, the new regul -
tions would not bar upstream develop-
ment. Instead, such adesignation would
merely require industry and govem-
ment to comply with higher standards
and limitations than are currently im-
posed. In fact, the regulations autho-
rize waivers of the restrictions for im-
portant economic or social develop-
ment in the affected area. This is not a
choice between jobs and the environ:
ment. '
TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE.
Because the comment period ends this

0 See GOSHEN, page 8

 

Arnie Ring-tum Phl, November 12, 1992

OPINION

Citron regresses to years of simplicity

v-

if

5

J

I

ONE GUY’s OPINION
By Chris Citron

5

I’ve been thinking about my child-
hood recently; I don’t exactly know
the reason, but I think it’s due to my
incessant wishing that I was once again
that age. Wouldn't it be great to be
about eight years old again? And it
§Iouldn't even be necessary to know
what we know now. It would be just as
much fun living with our naive and
innocent perceptions of the world that
we had at the time. _

What did we really do? We got up,
put on the clothes that Mom got out for
3:, (I did anyway). ate a great breakfast

Mom poured out of the Life box,
(well, I did), and then were escorted to
the bus stop by Mom, to await a full six
hours of school. (What a pathetic little
Mamma’s boy I was. Actually,
nothing’s really changed since then
gxcept that now I pick out my own

lothes. Do you really think my Mom
has that bad of taste in fashion?)

And what did we do in school? A
couple of phonics lessons, a few simple
mathematics problems, perhaps learn
about the parts of a ﬂower. Pretty
Q‘ ple stuff. I specifically remember

pending about a week watching
“Charlotte’s Web” on one of those
projectors that needed to be turned at

’ the sound of the beep while a tape

0

recorder was playing. Of course, this
brilliant technology insured that no
frame would ever have the correct dia-
logue, especially when an eight year
old was tmning the

tantly, we developed unique bartering
skills thatlast withus even today. “You
gonna eat that Twinkie? I’ll give you
my grape jelly sandwich for it. No?

Well how about

frames, which made
foranextrernelylong
week. Although that
was the same week
that a girl in the class
stapled her hand
about a dozen times
on purpose, deserv-
edly winning all the
guys’ respect, and
making me curious
as to why I remem-
ber that point in
time? Wilbur or try-
ing to staple my own
hand?

So we get through
the classes and then
get to enjoy the best
part of the day: re-
cess.(Ithinkthatwas

my sandwich,
these Oreos and
this pear that you
can throw at
JoAnn later for
your Twinkie and
one Pop-Tart?
Yeah? Cool.”
Lunch traded
or eaten by the to-
ken fat kid wear-
ing“Huskies,”we
went outside to
use our newly ac-
quired weapons,
which was the
only real use for
fruit at that age.
(Pears were the
best because they
squished on con-

the largest word in

ourvocabularies at the time.) Although
lunch was pretty important too. Not
that we ever ate anything that was good
for us, but we had really cool lunch
boxes. Guys had G.I. Joe or Superhero
lunch boxes; girls had Holly Hobby or
Barbie, and if you were undecided at
the time you had something like The
Muppets. But perhaps more impor-

tact.) You had to
throw them at the girls, because they
had cooties. After you squished the
pears on them and they cried, the boys
went to play another intelligent game,
“Kill the man,” while the girls jumped
rope and sang “Cinderella, dressed in
yella, went upstairs to kiss her fella,”
etc., etc., etc. Why didthe name calling
and insulting rhymes always involve

kissing? “Graham and Jenny sittin’ in a
tree. K-I-S-S-I-N-G. First comes love,
then comes marriage, then comes Wil-
low in a baby carriage,” etc. etc. etc.
But we played those games, got grass
stains on our “Wranglers,” and finally
lined up to go back inside.

Once there,wehad two more classes
of learning how to properly use an
inside address on a letter, or went to the
library to check out books like “Where
The Wild Things Are.” Of course, if it
were Friday or the day before a break,
we might get to go to the cafeteria and
watch “Willy Wonka and the Choco-
late Factory,” which was a much better
way to end the day than learning how to
write your name in two-inch letters.

A quick bus ride home, and within
10 minutes we had our play clothes on
and kickball in hand. The hardest de-
cision carne right at this time: What do
I eat for snack? Which Pixie stick
should I swallow: grape or lime? Or
how many links should I eat off of my
edible necklace or bracelet? Seriously,
that was the biggest choice we had.
Then we played until dinner, fed our
vegetables to the dog under the table,
who didn't like them either, did our
four math problems and 10 sentences
for homework, watched “The Dukes of
Hazzard” (if it was Thursday), and
went to bed by nine. It didn't get much
easier than that.

I wish I were eight again.

D GOSHEN, From page 2

Monday, our letters should be in the
mail TODAY. Every one of us should
ﬁke fifteen minutes out of our busy
Thursday or Friday schedule and type
a letter NOW.

We have no excuse. In fact, the
W&L Environmental Law Forum will
mail the letter for you. Simply drop off
your persuasive masterpiece in the en-

gelope on the Environmental Law Fo-
rum board in Lewis Hall, near the
Alderson office, by Friday, November
13, at 4 p.m. The Environmental Law
Forum will address, stamp, and place
the letter in Friday’s mail.

If you choose to mail your letter

- yourself, the address is:
‘ Ms. Doneva Dalton

Recording Secretary

State Water Control Board

Post Office Box 11143 p , _ _

Richmond, Virginia 23230 J 

this is our opportunity to ensure that »

l A hen we retum to Rockbridge County,
Goshen Pass will be the same beautiful
and pristine area that we all remember.

Go ahead. Write a letter and make
a difference. What are you waiting
for?

Sincerely,

Adri Spain "93L

The W&L Law News Editorial
Board

The Environmental Law Forum

LETTERS

EC member criticizes subscription policy

To the Editor:

As I was perusing the last edition of The Ring-tum Phi,
I noticed for the first time that on page two it says, “Founded
September 18, l897.” This struck me because I had just
been reading about the new policy of charging faculty and
staff for the Phi. Why change something t.hat’s been work-
ing well for 95 years?! To my knowledge, no previous Phi
staff has decided to charge faculty for copies of the Phi. For
some reason, this year’s staff, headed up by the business-
like Cathy Lopiccolo, seems to think the W&L weekly
newspaper should run like the Wall Street Journal.

As an EC member, I heard about the new idea of the Phi ’s
budget allocation being thought of as a “subscription to the
student body” during the budget process. Though I thought
it was sort of silly that they wanted to change the system
around, I could see the point that the Phi wanted to free itself
from any potential EC control. Though I don’t recall this
being made clear, Iprobably assumed it would be taken out
of some sort of faculty dues, since the student’s billing is
taken out of their student activities dues. I think that if it had

. . been made clear to the EC. that faculty would actually be .

_ , 3 , .~. 9 chargeda quarter each time they went to pick upa paper, few

This is our opportunity to be heardzl» 1 members I would have approved their allocation.’ Further’-
‘more, the Phi received the same budget allocation they have V

gotten in the past. They do not even need the extra revenue
that they are seeking through charging the faculty.

The faculty and staff here, though not technically so, are
an intrinsic part of the student body of this campus. All that
this ridiculous new policy does is cause alienation between
the students and the faculty. The faculty won't buy the
papers, rightfully so, and will become more distanced from
the students with whom they seek rapport. Therefore, the
students are actually put at a disadvantage by the faculty not
reading the paper.

It’s not amatter of the 25 cents; it's the principle of trying
to create a strict business relationship in our relaxed W&L
environment. If the editors are so interested in mnning a
“real-world” newspaper, as they have said, then why don’t
they print some articles that are worthy of a “real-world”
newspaper? I dare say that the Wall Street Journal would
have printed “Erection Man!” Finally, the system worked
fine for 95 years, and why should the 92-93 editors impose
their silly idea of rtmning the Phi likea“real-world”newspa-
per and change the system to the detriment of faculty and

students alike?

 Moseley,-F393      -~
V-Senior EC rep.

Amnesty International educates W&L

To the Editor:

“No one shall be subjected to tor-
ture or cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment or punishment,” states Ar-
ticle 5 of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights.

1 don’t think there is a single person
at Washington and Lee who could pos-
sibly disagree with this statement and
yet there seems to be some very anti-
Amnesty International sentiment on
campus lately. This seems to be due
primarily to misconceptions about the
nature of Amnesty International, which
is not a liberal, radical, or politically
partisan group.

Amnesty International is about edu-
cation. Students attending such a pres-
tigious school as Washington and Lee
are no doubt intelligent, but they are
also sheltered in many ways. Most
don’t even realize there are human
rights abuses taking place every day
around the world because their own
environment is so safe and serene. For

many of the students who do realize,
the victims of torture hardly seem real.

Amnesty hopes to promote a more
global vision and provide infomiation
for students so thatthese victims can be
seen as real people, not just lamentable
statistics. Amnesty also serves as a
means for students to act on their be-
liefs. We’re very lucky to be able to
attend school and express our opinions
and beliefs without fear of the conse-
quences. In many countries, men,
women and children are imprisoned
solely for their beliefs, race or ethnic
origin. If these individuals have nei-
ther used nor advocated violence they
are considered prisoners of conscious
and the worldwide network that is
Amnesty International works impar-
tially to free them.

The recent EC explanation for the
ACLU decision states that funding for
the W&L chapter of Amnesty may be
rethought in the future. Thought is ex-
actly what Amnesty is trying to pro-

‘Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

Who is the sexiest professor and why?

1

Nicole Casteel, ’93, Valrico, Fla. —
—“Dr. Knox because he wears Birks.”

TALKBACK

mote, but realistically we need funding
to reach out to the student body. Our
EC funding pays for movies, speakers
and posters, not postage stamps as the
Spectator’s gossip column “Heard &
Overheard” might lead you to believe.

It’s true we send a lot of letters to
governments around the world request-
ing the release of prisoners of con-
scious, but the postage is paid for by
dedicated students and through outside
donations.

I hope when EC budget hearings
start next fall, members will keep in
mind what Amnesty International is
really about, not the misconceptions.

Amnesty Interrtational at Washing-
ton and Lee works — the prisoners of
conscious who are now free can attest
to that.

Sincerely,

Amy Yarcich ’94

President, W&L Amnesty Interna-
tional

Kelly Bass, ’93, Lutherville, Md.
—“Dr. Pleva because he's the sharp-
est dresser.”

Dennis Gambow, ’93, Cincinnati, Ohio and John Suttle, ’93, Abilene,
Texas — “Dean Schroer-Lamont because she’s too sexy for her job.”

Help Wanted

Do you have some free time?
Would you like to earn some extra
money? I am looking for two stu-
dents who would like to be projec-
tionists for the Troubadour Cinema
winter and spring terms. Experi-
ence not required but helpful. Be
prepared to set aside a few hours for
training. Contact Carol Calkins,
Room 104 of the University Cen-
ter, ext. 8590, for details.

Women's Forum

In light of Wednesday's Forum
on Sexual Harassment, Women’s
Forum will sponsor a video and
discussion onsexualharassrnentthis
Sundayat6:30p.m. intl1eWomen’s
Center.

Lecture

Pam Fesler, Senior Reporter for
Congressional Quarterly, will give
a talk “The Results of the 1992
Elections: An Early Appraisal” at4
p.m. on Monday, Nov. 16 in Room
327 of the Commerce School.

Amnesty

Amnesty International will
present “The Mission" at 8 p.m.
Sanirday, Nov. 14 and Sunday, Nov.
15 at the Troubadour Cinema.
Admission is free and everyone is
welcome to attend.

Fencing

Club Fencing will be starting
again winter tenn. Interested per-
sons (male or female).,should call
either Coach Lyles at.463-8683, or

tails.

The EC

The Executive Committee has
changed its meeting time from 7
p.m., Monday night to 7:30 p.m.
Monday night.

Lost and Found

Ifyou’ve lost car keys, come by
the Security Office or call Baner.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Chris ‘Keller at 463-4884, for de.- 0

Phi Eta Sigma

Members of Phi Eta Sigma may
contact Dean Sessions, Washing-
ton Hall 24, about scholarship op-
portunities. Awards of $2000 are
available to seniors going on to
graduate school and $1000 to eli-
gible undergraduates.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, please don’t
drive. Please call Live Drive at
463-8947 for a safe, sober ride.
Live Drive operates Friday and
Saturday nights from 10 p.m.-2
a.m. We’re also looking for volun-
teers to help drive. If interested
call Melissa or Jess at 464-4017.

ACLU/Amnesty

The ACLU and Amnesty Inter-
national present A Critical Exami-
nation of the Death Penalty... com-
ing to a library display case near
you.

Study Abroad

Richard Bidlack, assistant pro-
fessor of History and acting head
of the Department of Russian Stud-
ies, will lead a study program to
Russiaduring the 1993 spring term.
Theprograrn will begin withaweek
of intensive orientation before de-
parting for Russia. Students will
travel to several cities in European
Russia.

Students enrolled in the course
will receive six credits in history or
they may split the credit between
history and another department
willing to grant credit.

Successful completion of either
History of Imperial Russia (H320)
or History of Soviet Russia (I-I321)
is a prerequisite for the program.

Knowledge of the Russian lan-
guage is not necessary. 8

Students interested in the pro-
gram should contact Prof. Bidlack
before Thanksgiving break.

Help!

I need a ride to northern New
Jersey on Saturday, November 21.
I will help pay expenses. Please
call Debbie at 463-5184.

Yearbook Photos

Class photos will be taken next
week. Freshmen, Tuesday Nov. 17:
Sophomores, Wednesday, Nov. 18;
Juniors, Thursday, Nov. 19.

Maureen Levey, ’93, Livingston,
NJ. “Professor de Maria because
who could ask for anything more than
a hot-blooded Italian man.”

Robert Stewart, ’95, Lithonia, Ga.
—— “Professora Ruiz because she al-
ways wore cute, little mini skirts."

 

 
 

Music Review

FEATURES

The Ring-tum Phl, November 1 2, 1992

Maniacs, Mondays blossom

By REBECCA CROW
Phi Music Columnist

GIN BLOSSOMS
NEW MISERABLE EXPERIENCE

(A&M)

 

From the barren desert of Tempe, Arizona, the
Gin Blossoms emerge as anew band that clings to the
folksy rock tradition of the Byrds.

Their debut LP, New Miserable Experience,
lends itself easily to the pop side of the alternative
spectrum.

Featuring recurrent themes of lost love, early love
and drunkenness, the lyrics are very teeny-boppish
and, unfortunately almost kill the strength of the
music as a whole.

The first three songs allude to alcohol use from the
perspective of a teenager.

(Were they writing for the younger audience, or
what?)
-In particular, “Hey Jealousy,” their first single,
develops from this point of view.

Vocalist Robin Wilson, while promising to re-
main faithful to his love, croons, “Do you think it
would be all right if I could just crash here tonight?
You can see I'm in no shape for driving.”

If you think those lyrics are great, guess what?
They continue for 10 more songs.

Most sparks of
true talent ﬂy at the
beginning of the LP.

At the end, all the
melodies blend into
the monotonous
murmur that gener-
ally occurs on al-
bums that lack diver-
sity.

A refreshing
break occurs with
“Cajun Song,”
which features a distinctively Cajun sound, and
“Cheatin’,” which incorporates a dash of country.

Nonetheless, lyrics about love and drinking still
prevail.

I guess some themes apply to all genres.

Fortimately, the jangling guitars and powerful
rhytlnns of the songs prove that the Gin Blossoms
have the talent to progress into the innermost circles
of rock.

This is an excellent effort for a debut album that
lends itself to much future development and growth.

The Blossoms are definitely a band to watch.

 

THE

***k********‘Ir**************************************k

 

10,000 MANIACS
OUR TIME IN EDEN

( Elcktra )

 

On Labor Day 1981, six young musicians per-
formed together for the first time in a small club
under the name 10,000 Maniacs.

Now, ten years later, they are one of the biggest
sensations in alternative rock. The combination of
lead singer Natalie Merchant’s eerie alto and their
diverse musical roots (calypso, folk, reggae, rock)
have charmed a generation of music lovers.
Merchant’s impassioned vocals crooned the woes of
social and political injustices, touching the hearts of
many into affecting change. “

Three years have
passed, however,
since Blind Man’s
Zoo, and the Mani-
acs have a new pro-
ducer, Paul Fox
(Robyn Hitchcock,
XTC). Gone are the
oommentative lyrics
that empowered and
carried the songs.
On Our Time In
Eden the depth
comes from very
subtle allegorical references to the Catholic assump-
tion that we are fallen beings who can not recreate
paradises here on earth. The first single, “These Are
Days,” commands people to find their inner strength,
their inherent ability to adjure the world and mold it

into what it should be. _ _
Ironically, ratherthan describing paradise, “Eden”

depicts a garden in which we are all roses who suffer
from a lack of spiritual refreshment. Merchant
queries, “Is there still time? If we wake and discover
in life a precious love, will that waking become more
heavenly?” Perhaps Merchant sees our world with
the same eyes as T.S. Eliot saw his in “The Waste-
land.”

For those who feel the Maniacs have not devel-
oped in the last decade, Our Time In Eden offers
“I’m Not The Man,” a death row monologue recited
on the behalf of a black male accused of a crime he
did not commit. “Call out the KKK,” he cries.
“They're wild after me.”

Merchant’s unearthly chanting set to a pounding
rhythm sounds far closer to the synthesized notes of
Suzanne Vega than the folksy Maniacs.

Once again, the 10,000 Maniacs have produced a
work that causes our hearts to drone with ache and
leap with joy simultaneously. Paradise may be lost

***&********§*****§***********

STUDENT

  ACTIVITIES
BOARD

PRESENTS

 

Tom Del u ca

Saturday, November 14,
7:30 p.m.
in the

Lenfest Center
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

forever, but in our minds and hearts, our time in Eden
is as real as our days on Earth.

HAPPY MONDAYS

YES, PLEASE
(Elektra)

 

Those of you who thought that the Happy Mon-
days had finally met their end should be overjoyed
about their new release, Yes, Please. Their diverse
sound brought a rough edge to popular music that
still remains today. Unfortunately, arrests for drug
possession and their gangster image quickly tore the
Mondays from the music scene.

Late in 1991, however, the Mondays hired a new
booking agent, Ian Flooks, who pushed them to
record again, this time with the production team of
Tina Weymouth and Chris Frantz (Talking Heads
and Tom Tom Club).

Like the Happy Monday’s previous efforts, Yes,
Please is totally relaxed and carefree, yet put to-
gether in a manner intended to produce excitement.
Fans of Pills ‘N’ Thrills may be disappointed by the
lack of heroin-induced lyrics, but please don’t be
dismayed. The style is as cocky as ever, only with
rhythms and lyrics that are tart, sharp and sparkling.

“Monkey In The Family” adds a touch of fun to
the collection by following the ambiguity of a They
Might Be Giants song. “Sunshine And Love,” whose
title almost appears to have been stolen from the Tom
Tom Club’ s single “Sunshine and Ecstacy” (released
in the spring), “Love Child” (no, they are not closet
Diana Ross fans) and “Total Ringo” are classic
Happy Mondays riffs. The rhythm forces you to get
up and dance.
Ryder’s recovery
from drug abuse and
his growing confi-
dence is emphasized
in “Angel,” which
concerns the firsten-
counter one has with
a doctor or perhaps a
therapist.

Overall, this al-
bum is exemplary.
Onlyif the New Kids
On The Block were to suddenly mature, learn to
write real lyrics and learn to play instruments can I
imagine any band putting forth more quality effort on
a come-back album.

Crow is assistant rock manager at WLUR. Her
column will appear periodically throughout the year.
These three albums are promotional copies received
by the station.

 

Colonnade Crossword

1 2

ACROSS
1 Mentally
competent
5 List of names
10 TV feature
14 Prudish
15 Opera voice
16 October gem
17 Teen-age
affliction
18 Tracking device
19 Skirt style
20 Hone
22 Comforted
24 —— mode
25 Valuable violin,
for short
26 Government
representative
30 Nutmeg and
cloves
34 Highway
35 Adam's mate
36 Tally
37 Possess
38 Make ready

41 Negative prefix ©‘A9,?%i";;§’s“’F‘,°es”’£‘,f\‘f‘;jj 5°""°°5v '"°- 1 1/12/92
42 Lowest point 9
44 Before: pref.
45 Military dining Last Week's Answers
room 9 Mistakes
46 Inspire with love 10 Wandering
48 Staff member around
50 Covered with 11 Long story
climbing plants 12 Abate
52 Pitcher handle 13 Tried to steal a
53 Vie base
56 Sharp weapon 21 Arafat's group
60 Opera solo 23 Backslide
61 Flower leaf 25 Paced
63 Popular drink 26 Buzz
64 Season 27 Des Moines
65 Author Zola citizen
66 Price tag 28 Zoo favorite
67 Leg joint 29 Rosary prayer
68 Satisfied 31 — Island, NY
69 Single bills 32 Having a jagged
. e e
DOWN 33 Feel
1 Resorts 38 Show to be
2 Span true
3 Columbus‘ ship 39 Provide guns
4 Green gem 40 voided a law 51 Tissue swelling 56 Bundle of hay
5 Banner 43 Copy 53 Keg 57 Midday
6 Tilt 45 African country 54 Algerian port 58 Otherwise
7 Also 47 Washes 55 Long African 59 Makes lace
8 Breakfast item 49 Place river 62 Deep hole

 
 

R—MWC concert tonight

Toad the Wet Sprocket will play at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
tonight at 9 p.m.

Toad the Wet Sprocket has two current hits, “All I Want” and “Walk on
the Ocean."

According to Tara Ward, Programming Director at Randolph—Macon, the
concert will take place in Randolph-Macon’s Smith Auditorium. Doors open
at 8 :30 p.m. Ward said 650 of the 900 concert tickets have been sold. Of these
tickets, 60 were sold at W&L. The remaining 250 tickets will be sold tonight
from 7-9 p.m. in the Student Center at Randolph-Macon. The tickets will cost
$10. College identification will be required to purchase tickets.

The opening band for tonight’s concert will be the Gin Blossoms. They
hit the stage at9 p.m. Toad the Wet Sprocket will begin their set at 10:15 pm.

— Tom Hespos

I

, SPRINGBREAKERS.
Promote our Florida Spring
Break packages. Eairi MONEY
and FREE trips. Organize

KFall Fashions For “The Student Body.”\
50°/o-80°/o Off *
‘Every Day

 

SMALL or LARGE groups
Student Housing Available 9
for ‘93-‘94. 1 to 5 Bedroom 0 U T I‘ E T 5
Houses right outside city limits. - -
Average Rent $200. 30 South Main Street Downtown Lexlngtor_i,_
Ask for Mitchell or Mark Schaier K M0"--Sat 9=3°'5=3° 453'973° J
M-F 463-2823 7:30-5:00 
a
valley ,§a¢"'V d'Q,,,"“”’ ——Y°U
"  could own _
'n n Related Items -
Hardware, Pal ta d Thls Space.
Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. Cal] 463-858 I,
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
0

*4-¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

Your Favorite MB
Cards, Comics, Race Cars, & now Trading
Card supplies are available.

Listen to 96.7 WREL for a chance to win
our CD of the week:
Gloria Estefan’s Greatest Hits.

\.l .-//.» ' -

vies, Music, Trading

Also Special Order music at no extra charge.
Come see our Comic Book Dept. 6000 in
stock- DC, Marvel, Eclipse, & Many Morel!
99¢ Category of the Month:
Classics & Mystery

-9

 

’ The Ring-tum Phi, November 12, 1992

 Harrlsfeerer

 

NEWS

   

MEANS LOW PRICES

   

  
 
 

W&L ’51,
arrested

N.Y. judge,

PAGE 5

From Staff Reports

:-Harris Teeter GoldeII‘DeIigbt Turkey Coupon

Buy One Whole Or Two Halves, Hamilton
Honey Glazed Spiral Sliced Ham At Our

Special Low Price Of $2.99

Per Pound And Get One

    
  
 
   
   
 
  

   

    

Y
E| 

2223
C

H TTtisCoupo’r1cMa[«"f':liol COUPON I 
 I   G I I
l. Mlnllnuin LT‘

Purchase 0“-rt 0°°d COUPON CANNOT BE USED ON ANY OTHER MEAT

N°V*-""'>=' "L '*"° PURCHASE. OFFER GOOD wEDNEsDAY NOVEMBER
I '‘‘°'‘’"‘I’°’ 75"” 11 THRU wEDNEsDAY NOVEMBEH 25, 1992 I
j 1 1 1 2 1 2
QMITHFIELD WHOLE OR HALF

SPIRAL SL IED

IMIT '1 WITH
20.00

 
  

 
 

DDITIONAL
PURCHASE

LB.

I.
‘I

  

i I.'i.“.::.“.;'.i:..W.".“,:‘..‘.‘é’.;.".°..¢.li2i": ,::r°*l°"e'°°°d.. FLU 2232" I

VALUE
I 1-OL

  4 IT ALLowS You To
  _cASH PERSONAL E

I
I
» I
I.

'?

VALUABLE $1.00 CUPON
NORTH CAROLINA

BROCCOLI
B CH _

DIET COKE OR
8 COCA-COLA

   

REDUCED
PRICE

  

7.‘ - . ..-_ h

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per

 

  o_.

STUDENTS
WE INVITE YOU TO APPLY I2 COUNT CARTON
FOR YOUR HARRIS TEETER I EGG.LAND '5 BEST I
COURTESY CARD- : LARGE wI-IITE EGGS :
Hams 1' eater I I
"OURNAME ‘ ‘ I This Coupon May Not I
vounmnnass m..,........l. limit
YOUR CITY. STATE lllll I M23; gggpgggifgjim g, 
_ X/X 01/01/01 Minim‘l’m pun use I
' “III” §“I.:i:."i::'.‘§‘l3e"2. I

   

COUPON I

Vt_t2= ﬂarttsteeter

______..____J

ALUABLE 40¢ COUPON
16 OZ. PACKAGE

CHECKS AT OVER 134

HARR5 TEETER : HT BUTTER GUARTERS:
LocATIoNS IN . ¢ I
GEORGIA, SOUTH : 9 :
Etigtlﬁt: $‘.‘.’.t‘.l.*l..  AAAA ;
AND TENNESSEE ,,;§;§,°~».r;§?5,;:§,l /7 ;;~;,2,=a° .
TAKE ADVANTAGE or THIS $1.00 I °9t’l1?." I

_

COUPONANDSAVE. ____________]

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON VALUABLE $1.01 COUPON
l 1 OZ. BAG

   
 

  

" s I .00 0" I I “E5” ""55 I
’ ‘ CHOC MORS I.
C

ANY $3.00 OR MORE I I ¢ |
PURCHASEIN. OUR I I I
PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I I This COW‘ émw j I
, I THIS coupon MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED.I I ;‘j°c§‘,°."’cP...i’.§/..n.‘I>‘«§,I‘."' ~,e‘-i=~‘*~“'*-’-'4‘.w’. WITH I
LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I ‘I ,,,,=,g‘;',,,Y,;,,,°,l ;'{,,,,'"l j__ .  , ._.3 _ COUPON I

OFFER GOOD NOV. II THRU Nov. I7, I992 §K}2‘;20.berL‘eIiC15’‘r:|o|? . _ ‘W  .,,w 2226
I ON ' PRODUCE I In-ovem'l1erI7, 1992. 'f="="-‘~—"‘='* "“GROCERY I
- I “tr...     . I I c°ir.r.~ I
_‘'E'; _ _'*‘i".1.°9_l L 2;. _ '° _ _ _ _.

Prices Effective Through November 17, 1992

Prices In This Ad Eltective Wednesdo November I I Throug Tuesday, November 17 1992. In Lexington Stores _
U On|y.We Reserve The Right To limit Quontilies. None Sold To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

S01 Wachtler, a distinguished W&L alum-
nus in the class of ’5 1, stepped down Tuesday
as New York state's top judge, three days after
being accused of harassing and attempting to

extort $20,000 from a former lover.

FBI agents arrested Wachtler, 62, Saturday.
The FBI alleges that Wachtler began contacting
with sexually explicit letters and phone calls a
New York City woman, with whom they say he

had had a relationship.

The FBI alleges that the harassment of the
woman escalated to threatening to kidnap her

daughter and blackrnailing her.

The woman, Joy A. Silvennan,_is a Repub-
lican socialite and one-time Bush nominee to be
ambassador to Barbados. She is related to

Wachtler by marriage.

The FBI arrested Wachtler Saturday after
agents witnessed him pick up an envelope sup-
posed to contain the money they allege he
extorted from Silverrnan, The New York Times

reported.

Wachtler received a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Washington and Lee in 1951 and a Bach-

elor of Laws degree in 1952.

In recent years Wachtler has been men-
tioned in political circles as a contender for
New York governor and U.S. Supreme Court

justice.

Give a hoot

Photo by Amy French, The Ring-tum Phi

 

Freshman Matthew Reedy helps Phi -Delta Theta frater-
nity clean up its portion otU.S.11, between East Lex and
Kroger. The Phi Delts pick up litter as part of the state
Adopt-A-Highway program.

"V’\-‘p-I

Guide makes sense of Moot Court

C] From GUIDE, page 1

not “foster an excessive governmental

entanglement with religion.”
Appearance of end0rsement.This

is the crux of the 1992 Davis problem.

‘ The Supreme Court has recently inter-

preted the Lemon test as prohibitive of
religious displays that even appear to
endorse a particular faith. If the
menorah’s presence on city property
gives the mere appearance that the city
is endorsing the Jewish faith, it cannot
be allowed.

Time, place, and manner restric-
tions. These have been upheld as a
valid means of regulating displays,
demonstrations, etc. without violating
participants’ freedom of speech —— the
means by which expression is con-
ducted may be restricted, but not the
basis of the content of that expression.
Many cases relating to the Davis prob-
lem involve‘ titriegiplace laid vmarmer

restrictions, either as a contributing
factor leading to the litigation or as a
proposed solution.

Lynch v. Donnelly and Allegheny
County v. ACLU of Greater Pitts-
burgh.'I'hese cases stand for the propo-
sition that a municipality may permit a
display if the religious content is out-
weighed by neutral, secular content.
Sometimes lawyers jokingly call this
the “three—reindeer rule” — if a holiday
display contains an otherwise imper-
missible religious symbol, three rein-
deer are sufficiently secular to detract
from the religious content. (This is
about as witty as constitutional law
scholars get.)

The more permissive “coercion”
standard. Intended as a replacement
for the Lemon test and argued by Jus-
tice Kennedy in his dissent in Allegh-
eny County, this test would allow gov-
emmental support /of religion unless

ticipating in the religion. The City of
Danburg may try to argue this, even
though the Supreme Court rejected it
this summer in Lee v. Weisman, a Rhode
Island graduation-prayer case.
Compelling state interest. For
speech to be abridged, the state must
argue that considerations of public
policy compel that abridgement. The
Holy Fundamentalist Church argues
that violation of the Establishment
Clause is a compelling state interest.
This small amount of knowledge is
relatively inconsequential in the Davis
scheme of things, but at least now you
can go to the ﬁnals with an idea of

I usubwhuu

BE B\\n\’h ‘X I

*1

" '!Il§I1 

what’s going on. And who knows? The :;

podium just might collapse when some-
body is giving their argument, and
you’ll be there to see the action. Enjoy
yourself — but when the first finalist is
six minutes into her argument and the
judges haven’t let her finish a_ sen-

ttfahsupport coerced-«a person into par— 1:’ tence,4ti0rr-’t say I didn’t  you.

F

3)

University Cleaners

Professional Dry Cleaners & Laundry

Same Day Service, Dry Cleaners & Laundry, Shirt Service, Personal Laundry Service,
1 Hour Dry Cleaning. Hours: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Saturday 9 a.m. - 1» p.m.

7 N. Jefferson Street Lexington, VA 463-3622

W

k Not available as registration point J
GET INVOLVED!
  E P The Ring-tum Phi is

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE seeking outgoing stu-
dents for advertising
sales. It’s good for the

resume, especially for C-

' School majors! Leave a

a S I message for Benjy at 463-

delivered hot and last to your door.

© 1989 Pizza Hut. Inc.

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE or EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS ORDISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY
WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

5:: Offer expires 12-18-92

0 1989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

and Keep
Cramming.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings.

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!

——————————————--——————-1

|"
Student Special '

I
I
I
E 2 pizzas for the price of 1
I
I
I

our drivers carry no more than $20.

 

I-Iluts

Umitad delvery am.

1/20 cent cash rederrptlon valUeJ

8581, or leave a note with
Mrs. Calkins in the U.Ctr.

The Ring-tum Phi is also
seeking a reader-rela-
tions coordinator. Great
experience in public
relations. Call Cathy or
Rick at 463-8581, or leave
us a note with Carol
Calkins in the U. Center.

SPRING BREAK ‘93
SELL TRIPS,
EARN CASH

& GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus
representatives. Ski
packages also available
CALL 1-800-648-4849.

 

 

 

Last Week:

Football- W&L 21,Guilford 0 (5-3)

WP- W&L 11, Johns Hopkins 9 (16-10)
VB- EMC 3,W&L 1 (13-14)

CC- (W) 1st at ODAC,(M) 2nd at ODAC

PAGE 6

S

@1111: Zﬂing-tum lﬂlli

PORTS

This Week:
Football- vs. G’town 11/14 1:30
CC- (M&W) D III Regionals 11/ 14

Swim- (M&W) vs. Centre 11/14 lpm

FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

NOVEMBER 12, 1992

Record
setter
falters

Women still finish
first in ODAC

By SEAN O’RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

The teams competing at the
Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Championships finally
found a way to beat Washing-
ton and Lee’s Josephine
Schaeffer. Get her lost.

Schaeffer was leading the
women’s race by a corrifort-
able margin when she made a
wrong turn.

The mistake cost her ﬁrst
place and the title. But her bad

Photo by ems.” Leonardi, hie Ring-furn Ph

Senior Bo Hannah is in the clear as he competes in

luck was the Generals’ Nicole the ODAC finals. Hannah finished second overall

Casteel’s good fortune. The and helped pace the Generals to a second-place

senior took the lead and held it finish. He ran a time of 26:30. _

through the tape, ﬁnishing first

with a time of 19:51. Head coach Jim Phemister ﬁfth with a time of 27:45.
Freshman Amy Mears and was named ODAC Coach of Both teams must now pre-

sophomore Kim Herring ﬁn» the Year for the third time in pare for the South/Southwest

ish_ed ﬁfth and sixth, respec-
tively. Schaeffer rebounded

three years.
The men took second, be-

Regional Meet, which could
determine who goes to nation-

strong to finish ninth. hind Lynchburg, led by their als. A win by the team sends
The loss ended Schaeffer’s senior anchor, Bo Hannah. the whole team to the national
winning streak, but will not Hannah ﬁnished second over- meet.

affect her chances to make na-

all with a time of 26:30. Fellow

The event will take place

Generals ri Qakers °

By SEAN O’RoUiu<E
Phi Sports Editor

You already know by the headline who won
the football game between the Generals and
Guilford on Saturday.

Even so, there is one statistic that speaks just
as many volumes as the score does.

Rushing yards: Tommy Mason of W&L, 37
carries for 184 yards; the Guilford team, 39
rushes for -3 yards. Nothing more needs to be
said.

The Generals were an angry bunch of foot-
ball players after their loss to Bridgewater the
previous week, and it showed in the way they
beat up on the Quakers.

Defense paced the 21-0 victory by allowing
only 106 yards in total offense, while recording
four turnovers.

The performance impressed both head coach
Gary Fallon and Guilford’s coach, Mike
Ketchum.

“They [defense] really played well,” Fallon
said. “The other coach told me how he thought
our big people on both sides of the ball took
control of the game.”

The offensive line played extremely well,
opening all the holes Mason charged through

» on his way to the 184—yard performance.

“I didn’t expect to run the ball that much,”
Mason said. “But the offensive line blocked
really well and it was working.”

The Generals got on the board late in the ﬁrst
quarter. W&L recovered a fumble at the Guilford
29 and from there Mason went to work.

He gained all 29 yards on ﬁve carries and
scored on a three-yard jaunt over the right side.
It proved to be the game-winning touchdown

35:?

  

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Fling-tum Phi

Kevin Gorman (60) and Phil Spears gang-tackle the running back. The Genera s 1
defense will be under the gun all afternoon as the Hoyas bring their high octa e
run-and-shoot offense to Wilson Field this Saturday.

and Mason’s ﬁrst of the season.

The Generals tacked on two more scores in
the third, the ﬁrst on a one-yard run by quarter-
back Geren Steiner.

The other came on a 35-yard interception
return for a touchdown by freshman corner
back Graig Fantuzzi. It was Fantuzzi’s second
touchdown of the year.

The win assured the Generals their ﬁrst
winning season since 1988, when they went 5-

3-1.

A win over the Georgetown Hoyas this
weekend would give W&L their best victory
total since the 1985 team that went 7-2 and won
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference title?

Mason says that prospect forces the team to

concentrate even more. 9

“We have to stay focused. Everyone’s con-
gratulating us on a_ winning season, but we still
have one more win within our grasp.”

  

 

tionals.

classmate Keith Rinn ﬁnished

on Saturday, Nov. 14.

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

Eastern Mennonite College
ended the Washington and Lee
volleyball team’s hopes of ﬁnish-
ing with a winning record for the
second time in the team’s history
last weekend at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

The sixth-seeded Generals were
unable to keep up with tliird-ranked
EMC, and fell in four games, 15-
g. . . 12, 5-15,15-..8.._1,5,-11. .. , . ..

Head coach Kristi Yarter said the . team’s overall
inexperience was a major drawback. '

“We ran into a better team in EMC, but our inexperi-
ence still hurt us. We had 15 service errors in the match,
and that's directly related to inexperience.

“When our young players get more accustomed to
playing under pressure, those errors will stop,” Yarter
said.

Yarter said the team played well in some spots, but
could not keep up with EMC’s consistent play.

“We played well, with desire and enthusiasm. We did
a lot of things well, but our passing broke down in the
third game, and EMC stayed consistent through the entire

 

Hess

Volleyball ends successful year

match. They never really gave us a chance to break
through,” Yarter said.

This was the final game for senior Leslie Hess, who
ended a brilliant career with ﬁve kills and 13 digs. It was
also the ﬁnal game of Yaner’s stay as interim head coach.
Her ﬁrst season on the bench produced a solid 13-14
record.

As a team, W&L came up with 57 digs for the match.
Sophomore Jennifer Garrigus led the team with 16,
followed by Hess’ 13.

Freshmen Catherine Hess, Chrissie Hart, and Cheryl
T aurassi continued to record team-highs in kills, blocks,
and assists as they had all season. Hess finished with 13.
kills, Hart with four solo blocks and ﬁve block assists,
and Taurassi with 36 assists.

Taurassi said despite the team’s good play, it still
wasn’t a substitute for winning.

“The more 1 look back on it, the more I realize that we
actually played well, but that really doesn't make it feel
anyibetter. With Leslie and Coach Yarter leaving, its
going to be hard next year. But we're pretty young, so
hopefully we can use what we learned this year to be even
better next year.”

This team is losing one of its strongest players, and
team leader, next year.

Still, it is only one player. So next year’s squad has a
lot to look forward to.

W&L captures Eastern title 

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee water polo
team concluded their 1992 campaign
on Sunday with an 11-9 win over
Johns Hopkins to clinch the top spot in
Division‘ III’s Eastern Division. With
the three-win weekend, the Generals
finished at 16-10 for the season.

The path to the ﬁnal confrontation
with Hopkins was surprisingly easy, as
W&L quickly dispatched Wesleyan in
the first round, 24-5. The beating ap-
proached comic proportions when both
W&L goalies, P.J. Waicus and Dave
Silvester, netted goals of their own.
Every W&L player except one man-
aged to pass the besieged Wesleyan
keepers.

Freshmen Pat McKenna and Frank
Braden led the W&L barrage with three
goals each. Six other Generals scored
twice.

W&L’s second round opponent,
Williams, posed slightly more of a
threat, but the Generals ended the game
on top by eight, 19-ll. Junior Greg

atop the scoring charts by compiling
seven goals in the game, a career high.
Sophomore Derek DeVries added three
of his own, while seniors Chris Hagge,
Andrew Pearson
and junior Jacob
Berrnan rounded
out the scoring
with two each.

Head coach
Page Remillard
said the ﬁrst two
A _ games werehit-or-
Walcus miss because the
team knew nothing about either of them.

“We didn’t know anything about
them, and we were just able to identify
early who their better players were.
The idea was to take their better play-
ers out of the game, and play defenses
they hadn’t seen before...and that’s
basically what we did.”

In Johns Hopkins, W&L was play-
ing a team who they had seen twice
before, splitting the previous two meet-
ings. In the latest game, a loss to
Hopkins in the EWPA at Navy,
Remillard felt that he and his team had

    

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
 

“We didn’t play well, and I didn’t
coach well. That game was kind of a _
microcosm of what our overall pr b-
lems were in the middle of the season.”

Remillard said the final came down ‘
to a test of swimming endurance.

“I think actually, we controlled the
game more than the two-goalmargin of
score indicated. We missed some wide 1
open opportunities,” Remillard sai .‘ \

In the second half, W&L repeat ly
stopped Hopkins’ counter attacks and
initiated ‘attacks of their own.

Golub keyed the win by starting a
ﬁve-goal third quarter, distancing W&L
from Hopkins after the score was tied
3-3 at halftime. He was a unanimous.
first—team all-tournarnent selectihn.
Waicus and Hagge earned second team ‘
honors. ,

Golub also finished as the team
leader in every offensive category: 73 '
goals, 38 assists, 165 shots and 46
steals. Berrnan finished second in goals
and steals with 46 and 41', respectivoly.
Hagge had 39 goals, third and 37 as-
sists, second. Waicus compiled a 47.0
percent save percentage, saving 227

 

 

 

 

Golub returned to his familiar place performed poorly. shots and allowing 256 goals.
CRAFTS  [N'C_ W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop fr . .
GAMES HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES your next ha/rout. We have exper/enced Barbers.  R 9 a d  e P h |
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5 Ideal Barber  '
31 S. Main st., Lexington 463-3355 22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below FirstAmerican Bank
_ ADOPTION OPTION ssss, FREE '§§l£KII£é.&lél:R 900CHE[:;'vI;[';sV‘,kf:**¢>;‘g’:VAf1'l,*5*;S .
A ' Tim and Vicki wish to share our home with an infant. RESUME E _ f‘ SPRINGBREAK1993
I   , We have college degrees; and we both work in education £‘;1'nYt°‘$‘::1S”“§em§‘;‘,“1{mO‘G3a‘B“Za“REl§';‘<S The bestmtes &,hel,;gges,
Th N 2  b  Our holtf>bles arehrrtluslcI,kgo_ltfr,] and clhurch aciltlvltles. caumenaF$l"}S1eadeI.ImerCampus’ commissions. Formorelnformaﬁon, .‘
.. ' ou wls o a wl us, ease ca _ _
C CW SCI y Y 1_800_296_2367P Progiams1800-327-6013 Ca1l800-395 WAVE

  
 
 

 
 
   
 

'//////////////////////////

pagoQQo"

////7///////////////////////////////////////"“

ll:
\\\\

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE

Oil Change, Filter, & Lube

$15.95

   
  
 
    
 

$18.95 at
Night Owl Music

\\\\\‘.‘\\‘\

‘§\\

    
  
 

 
 

  
    

  

\ 

     
   
 
  

 

 

§ Includes up to 5 quarts motor oil, new oil ﬁlter, § _ , _ 
_' § lube, check fluid levels, belts and hoses, g Ladies Shoes, Clothing g
[I   I]: X}  I  '  E tires guaged, and exhaust system checked. E andAcce5-S0,-[es g
E N0 aPP°“‘tment necessary‘ § / 23 N. Main.St. (703) 463-5988 g
g - § Lexington, VA 24450 -
   E g M, T“°teS» EXh3“5t ,Vl:3)‘i1‘e‘ g%‘I‘I‘:°$26 §
§ lnor une-up avai . E
_E_ _ § Carmondale - TREK - Diamond Back - Giant
iE>\<’l\l/\'lE—’~,Vi°‘oS§','\\'/(,iT§3l'2l'5St:T  Rudell’s Service Center  Janfpon day packs :md_book bags
703 464-300°. .  207 N. Main  Lexington Bike Shop
     E (C01'ner Of Main and M35519) § 130 s. Main St. Mon.- Fri. 9-5/sat. 9-12 Noon. . 463-7969
A 7 1 ii||ll][|"jI|ﬂ|_|1IIllllmllﬂjﬂlllillIIllllllllllIII[ﬂlIIII|I||IlII|II|IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII|IIz'|I||I|I|||I|I||lI|!] lE I _ _
ﬂu _ Do You Want VISA 8t MasterCa rd Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAllTAlION.FL 3331 :
Aupjo .IVtDEo  Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  Q i I
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and, MasterCard!” I . ‘want VISAQ/MASTERCARDQ. Cred“ I
2523:; i‘.-'_i:'|mE CI'EdllC(?;‘.:dDSi:i:'I()t1'-rmBnEl;:.'l;JEVEN lg-‘DY%wA§%|g I Cards. Enclosed find 8 5 which is 100% refundable if not I
‘ ‘Um’ ' I approved immediately. I Q
LEEHIBA 2;/:;gAM2 VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you I |
., BOSTON DEFINITIVE dcsenrc and l'lCCd f0l""'  |  '
xupscn BAZOOKA STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMEN'l‘— , '
; :z:::E:.;“.t21::m$.W E”“ﬁ5r”§Zs?.‘ti’3¥§t'%’i‘3f’;$Ef§‘$e”’m““ns.' ‘S’ I ADDRE5 -
I f;,§§;g;;gLEL;}'1,g,~cg,g*;;§wE~T REPAIRS-—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! : CITY ‘ STATE _ ZIP I
. xi§:1EERl¥EAER%9gsiR¢glgéovER ‘ '  S’S.g : 9
0! _ .
(goo) 453.5657 '5 S“ cm: No credrr . 1 SIGNATURE 1
come, of Ogden 3, swkey Road, “5plI|:“_¢o ‘fcm "0 59C“''1t¥ (190051 t! ' N011-2: Maslucnrd Is a registered traaerrarlt d’ Mmtcroml lnternailomt lnc. '
Overlooking Tanglewood M.-.11 gut” 0.51 ‘ I Visa is a registered tndcnnrk or VISA USA. int-. and vlsA lntrrauonal I
2750 ogden,Rood- Roanoke 00 “ "5P’°"al 3b5°'Ut¢’Y gU31'am°€d 50 g Services Assocltllon. ‘coy OUARANYEED! '
' I o | o

 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHlNGTON*& BEE UMVERSHW!
l EXINGTON. VA. 24460

NOV 2 0 l992

BANG! YoU’RE DEAD!

W&L Students Get A Taste
Of A Paintball Adventure

Hoyos hold W&L to five wins

Generals post
first winning season
since 1988

0


\

Clltiz ‘tlttng-tum liﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

SBA gives ACLU $100

Law leaders vote 5-3-1 for funding despite EC policy

EC President Josh MacFarland said that MacFarland said that the SBA might be
although the SBA receives funding from the setting a dangerous precedent.

EC, it isanindependent orga— “We may have to come to a
nization. reconciliation on these policies,”

The Student Bar Association voted Mon- “We give the SBA free rein MacFarland said. “The last thing I
day to fund the W&L chapter of the Ameri- to give out funds,” want to seeis groups back-dooring
can Civil Liberties Union, despite an Execu- MacFarland said.“They know the EC by going to the SBA.”
tive Committee policy against funding parti- better than us what law stu— ACLU President Andrew
sari groups. dents want.” Schneider said the SBA decision

SBA President Amy Balfour said the SBA MacFarland said any other was prompted bylaw students who
board voted 5-3 with one abstention to give student group would not be were angry at the EC decision not
the group $100 because there are enough law able to fund a group the EC to fund the ACLU.
school students in the group to merit support. had rejected, but the SBA is Schneider said he hopes the
The SBA received $46,000 this year from the different because it has inde-  ' ACLU will not have to circum-
EC, which denied funding to the ACLU. pendent sources of funding. ' Balfour vent the EC in the future.

“We give $100 to any new club if it seems He said the EC gives back to “I hope the people elected to
like it’s serious and there are a substantial the SBA approximately the student activity the EC next year will be more favorable
number of law students involved,” Balfour fees that law students have paid. towards the ACLU,” Schneider said. “Butwe
said. She said 18 law students are in the “It’s not an exact equation, but that’s the can’t operate without money, soif we need to
ACLU. thinking,” MacFarland said. go to the SBA, we’ll go to the SBA.”

EC approves
contact fund

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

’\R>LuME 92, NO. 11 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA NOVEMBER 19,1992

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

Photo by Mallory Meyers, Te mg-tum Phi

W&L contributed $50,000 toward the $250,000 price of Lexington’s new fire truck.

ar tax stresses
W&L-city relations

55 V h
at-a~c-sets--ms   

H“ Staff Wm“ But Lexington officials say they need to collect
.5 the tax because of they are f inacially stressed.

Relations between Washington and Lee Uni- Mayor H.E. “Buddy” Derrick said the city
versity and the City of Lexington are strained, and holds no hard feelings toward the university, but
W&L President John D. Wilson blames the car tax maintains that the city will do whatever is neces-
for the majority of bad feelings. Sary to Collect the Car tax.

“I think the city officials are unhappy with me,” Derrick said most people do not realize
Wilson said. “I’m certainly unhappy with them.” Lexingt0n’S difficult Situation.

0 Wilson said W&L refuses to turn over a list of “We’re very limited in our sources of revenue,”
students’ cars to the city commissioner of revenue, he said.

citing student privacy rights.
But he said police are allowed
to enter university property
and record license numbers.

But Wilson believes the
ﬁity does not need to collect a
car tax from students because
of W&L’s voluntary contri-
butions to the city, including
anannual “grant” of $40,000.

Lawrence Broomall, uni-
versity treasurer, said W&L

~ sdvoluntarily pays the city
‘ 3,000. About half of that
sum is adonation for services
which the city provides to the
university.

The rest of the payment is
approximately the amount of
real estate tax which would

e paid on the fraternity
houses if they werenotowned
by the university. University
land is tax-exempt.

Over the years, W&L has also given the city
money for special projects. Broomall said W&L
éave Lexington $100,000 for construction of

ockbridge County High School and is donating
$50,000 over five years for the fire departrnent’s
new snorkel truck.

Derrick said Lexington
is only 2.5 square miles in
area. He said 40 percent of
property in the city is owned
by colleges, churches or
schools and is non-taxable.

The per capita income in
Lexington is lower than the
rest of the state’s, Derrick
said, while the average age
of city residents is higher.

The lack of revenue
sources and the high cost of
living in Lexington, Derrick
said, forced the city to pur-
sue aggressively the taxes
they are already owed. He
said every year the City
Council is faced with a tight
budget and decisions on
what should be cut.

Meanwhile, The Wash-
ington Post reported that
George Mason University students received car
tax bills from Fairfax County, one year after the
county subpoenaed student records, according to
the Rockbridge Daily Press.

The Post said the GMU student government
will try to negotiate with the county government to
reduce or eliminate the tax. ’

After seven weeks of discussion, the Executive Com-
mittee Monday established a fund to help small student
groups bring speakers to campus.

The EC set up the Contact Co-sponsorship Fund in
response to the requests during the budget process by
small groups for money for speakers. EC President Josh
MacFarland said then that he was concerned there would
be speakers on campus with conﬂicting schedules.

The EC voted in October to create a fund under
Contact, a student group which brings speakers to cam-
pus, to aid small groups in funding speakers.

On Monday, the EC finalized the way the fund will
work. The money for the fund will be in a separate account
which can be accessed by the Contact president and the
EC representative to Contact.

The EC will designate groups allowed to petition
Contact for use of the fund each fall. This year, the EC
desiganted the Minority Student Association, Amnesty
International and Women’s Forum.

, EC Junior Rep. Ashby Hackrtey, the EC representative
tr to Contact, said Contact was talking to groups about
photo by Ma”°,*y Meye,s_ 7-he R,-,,g_,u,,, phi speakers before the fund was even finalized. _ _

“Everything 1S going real well,” Hackney said. “[Dis-
cussions] have gone well with MSA.”

Several EC members said the fund is designed to create
competition among designated groups.

Hackney said it will be the responsibilty of clubs to
solicit Contact support for speakers.

“It's not Contact’s job to go and out and say, ‘Hey, let
us find you a speaker,” Hackney said.

Survey says go Greek at W&L

W&L also ranks high for homophobia, number of gays in closet

He’s too sexy

Beta Theta Pi member Justin Gilken gyrates to House of Pain’s
“Jump Around" at the Kappa Alpha Theta Gong Show Wednes-
day night. Beta placed second in the contest.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The R/'ng—tum Phi

Pulling their weight

3 The Phi Gamma Delta Intramural tug-of-war team strains its
way to victory during halftime at Saturday's football game.

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee has the most
popular fraternity system in the nation,
according to a recent survey by the
Princeton Review.

But the number one ranking in the
Princeton Review’s fall college guide
doesn’t surprise most W&L students.

“[The ranking] makes perfect sense
to me,” said junior Alex Ruskell, who
joined Sigma Phi Epsilon this fall. “So
many males seem to be part of the
fraternity system here.”

About 85 percent of men and 60
percent of women belong to one of
W&L’s 16 fraternities or four sorori-
ties.

Princeton Review Publications Di-
rector Cynthia Brantley said the col-
lege guide was compiled after more
than 28,000 students at 245 colleges
responded to a 67 -question survey. Stu-
dents ranked aspects of campus life
from the popularity of the Greek sys-
tem to the quality of the libraries. More
than 100 W&L students participated in
the survey, Brantley said.

The Princeton Review also consid-
ered surveys from more than 40 col-

lege counselors in the rankings.

Ruskell said W&L’s size, lack of
social options and long history of fra-
ternities traveling to women’s colleges
puts priority on joining a fraternity.

According to the Princeton Review,
schools with populations near 1,500
usually have a largely Greek social
life. Students who arehappywith Greek
life are usually middle class conserva-
tives, the Princeton Review said. The
guide lists W&L as the 18th most con-
servative campus in the nation.

SeniorLiz Miller said tltatpeerpres-
sure pushes many students to join a
fraternity or sorority.

IFC to enforce guest lists

“Once [freshmen] get here, they see
how strong the frat system is,” Miller
said. “If they want to be part of some-
thing and meet upperclassmen, they
need to join.”

W&L has the fourth most
homophobic campus in the nation, and
ranks second in the number of gays still
in the closet, the Princeton Review
said.

“It’d be hard to be gay on a conser-
vative campus like this,” said one W&L
student who wished to remain anony-
mous. “[Being gay is] just not an ac-
ceptable way of life around here. I’d
stay in the closet too.”

Frosh group

determined

Chapter liability insurance prohibits fraternities from
buying or serving beer, Atkins said. The BYOB rule would
reduce liability of fraternity houses and discourage under-

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

~ GALA founder is a

, ‘no-show at hearing

A

1

By J USTIN MACNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

A judge dropped assault and battery
charges against Charles Gay, ’89, when
W&L Gay and Lesbian Alliance
founder Sean Bugg failed to appear in
court Tuesday.

The charges by Bugg, '89, stemmed

,from an incident Homecoming week-
end at Sigma Nu. Bugg and Gay are
both Sigma Nu alumni.

Bugg charged Gay with assault and
battery. Bugg alleged that Gay yelled,

_t

“You’re not welcome here,” then
punched Bugg in the face.

Bugg said Wednesday he could not
get to Lexington Genral District Court
for the trial because his ride to Lexing-
ton fell through. ‘

Bugg said he would have liked to
press the charges but said he did not
mind that the case was dropped since it
was drawing negative attention for
GALA.

“It’s ﬁne with me,” Bugg said.

“Besides there are more important
things in the world to deal with than a
homophobe from Georgia,” Bug g said.

Open doors and beer on arrival at Washington and Lee
fratemity parties might be things of the past come winter
term.

At a Nov. 9 meeting, Interfratemity Council President
Sam Rock said the IFC should start enforcing the guest list
and “bring your own beer” policies written in the IFC
constitution.

Rock said that Kappa Alpha and Phi Delta Theta will be
expected to follow these rules when their social probations
expire after Christmas break, so other houses should also.

“It’s only fair to enforce [the policies] as a whole sys-
tem,” Rock told the IFC. “I don’t feel just making KA and
Phi Delt adhere to these rules is right when the constitution
says we all have to abide by them.”

Fraternities would be required to have a guest list at the
door during parties, Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said. Atkins said the goal of
guest lists is to cut down on party size.

age drinking.

Atkins said each fraternity
should begin to abide by the
rules themselves, but that the
IFC would step in and regulate
when needed.

But some W&L students are
distressed by the possible en-
forcement.

“The thing I like aboutW&L
as opposed to other schools is
that parties are so open,” junior
Sarah Wyatt said. “ [Open par-
ties] make social life more of a
community thin g..”

Sigma Phi Epsilon sophomore Brian Hucks said that

there are ways around the guest list rule.

“Technically, we have a guest list for every party,”

Hucks said. “It’s the student Register.”

to build unity

By MICHAEL Hawusrr
Phi Contributing Writer

A recently created Freshman Lead-
ership Council will aim to promote
class unity.

Dean ofFreshmen and Residence
Life Dennis Manning said the 10-mem-
ber council will aim to provide more
activities for the class.

Manning said he hopes the council
will provide leadership in many areas,
especially community activities.

Council member Kristen Cavros said
the council will survey the freshman
class to determine what activities the
group should undertake.

PAGE 2

    

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬁlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Follow the dollar

Many years ago. when the ozone layer still filtered the sun,
Lexington entered along, long-term no-armexation agreement with
Rockbridge County. That means city limits stay put.

But things change.

With the advent of market giants like Wal-Mart and Kmart,
business started leaving the city. And the county was, and still is,
appealing to new settlers, for its tax scheme and its zoning laws,
among other reasons.

While businesses ran for county land with the zeal of 19th-
century Homesteaders, Lexington was left to ponder just what went
wrong.

“Why look at that W&L student in a BMW!” the concerned
mayor must have said one morning as he pulled into his car
dealership to spend the day selling cars to people who would have
to pay car taxes.

Finally somebody put two and two together and realized
that taxing student cars equaled a lot more than four. And by gosh,
it's relatively legal. 0

The car tax was born.

We tried to be compassionate. “Hell, no,” we said. And
President Wilson refused to turn over the list of student cars.

When the bills came anyway, students organized a boycott
of city businesses to let Lexington know just what our commerce is
worth. At the last minute, the EC president, Tom Hatcher, called off
the boycott at merchants’ urging and agreed to try one more time to
talk to the city.

Oh, you should have seen the smiling faces at City Council
when Hatcher visited them. .They were thrilled that the boycott was
called off.

But they didn’t listen to a word Hatcher said.

We took the torch from there, encouraging students last
year to call the mayor at home (463-4066) to express their senti-
ments. Alas, the mayor was on vacation that weekend.

A This year, an EC member, whom we will not embarass by
naming, came up with the brilliant idea of students working off their
car tax with community service. The young fellow misses the point.

There’s one reason and one reason only why the city is
pursuing the car tax issue. Follow the dollar.

If for any reason the city believed taxing student cars would
not be cost-effective, they would not do it. Don’t be fooled by the
rhetoric that they are just obeying the law. They overlooked the car
tax before, and they have the power to do it again. The state will not
force the issue.

That means we have one way and one way only to combat
the car tax. Hit’em in the wallet.

And there’s no one in a better position to do that right now
than our university. _ .

«   ."1 :.:'  ~:‘:"“'1'c‘. 
u::But.W&L. is straddling a fence tltat’s-grown~soi.higli-

President Wilson’s feet are dangling in‘the air.’ ‘ ’ ' " , ,

Thanks, President Wilson, for not handing over the list.
Thanks for showing concern. Now try doing something.

The university voluntarily gives the city more than $83,000
annually to compensate for tax-free property. We paid $100,000 to
help build the consolidated high school. And we're paying $50,000
for a new fire truck.

Those things are all very nice, but why not let the car tax pay
for them?

Most students who pay car taxes at home face a lot of
hassles when they tell their localities they want a “refund. " And
those who don’t pay personal property taxes on a car at home pay
other fees that are higher; they won ’t get any refund at all. Moreover,
students should not have to surrender their home voter registration,
where many pay income taxes in the summer, to avoid taxation
without representation. '

.It seems that administrators are straddling the fence with
the same motive behind the city's conduct: money. Capital projects
are a lot easier to swing by the city fathers while W&L makes annual
“gifts” to the coffers. But students do, after all, pay tuition, and many
grow up to be wealthy alumni.

The honeymoon is over, President Wilson. If you’re not on

"the student’s side, you’re on the city's side. No more talking rebel

rhetoric to us while you’re signing checks payable to Lexington. It’s
time to pull tight the purse strings and tell the city to settle in for a
cold winter.

 

Soggy sip,  con.

/ malt Lrsr H4:
6:14:16-Sb since -i-HE‘
U-'-‘- 4011' IMPOxI'lN6v

HERO! WINES.

/

Exciting years ahead

MY VIEW
By Richard Hill, ’93

Bill Clinton will be the next Presi-
dent of the United States. So what?

The important thing is coming to-
gether. George Bush conceded defeat
graciously and Clinton accepted vic-
tory in kind. For those of us who op-
posed Clinton’s election, for whatever
reason, it is a time of soul-searching for
ourselves and for the nation. It has been
a long and bitter election and we have
all——in some way or another—been
involved in this election (some, myself
-included, more than others). For some
it meant voting for the first time, for
others it meant voting for and standing
behind a candidate other than Clinton
or Bush. And for the entire nation it has
meant change. But we carmot allow the
results of this election to divide the
nation.

OnNov. 1 1, 1940, Wendell Wilkie———
recently defeated by Franklin
Roosevelt—— addressed the nation on
radio to heal the wounds of a bitter and
hard-fought campaign. He called for
unity behind Roosevelt, but reminded
America that there must always be a
“loyal opposition.” In a few short
months, Mr. Clinton have a majority in

. both houses. of t.he.Congress, but he will . ..
’ also have a “loyal opposition,” made up

of 57 percent of the people who voted
in the election. This opposition will
support Mr. Clinton out of respect for
his achievement and for his office. Po-
litically, however, Clinton will have to
prove himself in a big way. Having no
mandate (despite what headlines and
the TV say, I would hardly call 43
percent of the vote a mandate) Clinton
will be expected to do exactly that
which he promised: to change this
country.

Based on the expectations of the
people, it could be a long four years for
Mr. Clinton. If he is successful in bring-
ing about change, then he will beviewed
as a savior. The economy is what mat-
ters most to the average American, not
politics. If you don’thave a job and can
barely afford to feed your family, you
probably don’t give adamn how Clinton
plans to pay for his policies. This has
been demonstrated time and time again,
most notably in 1932 and 1980. Two
weeks ago, the American people dem-
onstrated that they want change for its
own sake. Only time will tell the effect
that President “Change” will have on
our great nation. I wish him the best,
because he is going to need it, espe-
cially to prove to the majority of Ameri-
cans who didn’t support him that he
really is different. The next four years

Jnay not 100.1: inviting. bu.t;they.cannot-.-
help but look exciting-

The Ring-tum Phi, November 19,1992 ‘

Hostage to the truth}

WASHINGTON — Caspar
Weinberger, 75, threatens to become
the last human payment on the Iran
arms-for-

the Iranian arms-for-hostages scanﬁal '

broke, Bush refused to tell the whole to

truth of what happened. Just days be-
fore election, ‘

hostages herefusedto
deal. With admit to
S,,, felony CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS Larry King .
indictments . . . even that e
for lying ,0 Tribune Media Services Unitedsm es 3
Congress had know- ,
and ob- ingly sold .

structing its investigation, the former
defense secretary may see the rest of
his life divided between an excruciat-
ing court battle and a life-ending con-
finement in federal prison.

No one who honors justice or re-
spects public service should permit this
perversion of the legal system to run its
course. Weinberger has devoted much
of his life, in both California and Wash-
ington, to the good work of democratic
government.

He deserves better than to spend his
precious later years as one more hos-
tage in a war of revanchism, launched
by revolutionary Iran against America,
then continued here in this country in a

arms to Iran in ’86 with the purpose of
getting our hostages out. .-.

“To this day, you ask Ronald ,
Reagan, ‘Was it arms for hostage .’ 4
and he’ll say ‘No!”’ Bush told the ta -
show host.

Yet in passing the buck to his off-
stage predecessor, Bush ignores what
Reagan himself told his country in a
national television broadcast March 4,
1987: * p

“A few months ago,Itold the Am<!i-
can people that I did not trade arms for
hostages. My heart and my best inten-
tions still tell me that’s true, but the
facts and the evidence tell me it is not. -

“Now, what should happen when

twilightstruggle you make a .
betweenleftand mistake ‘is
right. Whatever this,” the
needs to be presidentcon-

done—-this in-

Three presidencies have

tinued. “You

cludes a par- been damaged or de- take your A
don—it should . knocks, you
be done before Stfoyed by our deahngs leamy0urles—
Christmas. with Iran. Let’s end it. sons and than
Just one man 9 you move on.”
can meet the Let s, to use Ronald W h i 16
necessary pre- Reagan S 0Wn W‘0l'dS, Reagan has
condition for “n-love on.” muddied the ‘
Weinberger s water since,
freedom: the that crystal-
president. clear confis-
Why? Be- sion of 1987
cause the suspicion is rampant that if still sets the standard for what George ‘

Cap Weinberger, who opposed the Ira-
nian arms-for-hostages deal, had turned
over details of what tlien-President
Reaganandtlien-Vice President Bush’s
roles had been in the 1986 swap, he
would have never been indicted.

If this is true or not, the former
Pentagon chief has become a hostage
to the truth of what really happened in
the Iranarms-for-hostageaffair; George
Bush has become the ransom. Only he
can set the record straight on the six-
year-old scandal and thereby let the
Congress, the courts and the country
move on to concerns more central to
the.l990s. . , ..

 For sorr1eo"bvious...politi.cal. Iea-...

“s‘on's—-l'i‘e ran for President tw.ic_e”‘since

...Reagan.’s own words, f‘rnove on.”
‘  4©I'992'T7I‘f7lUl2 Media Services

Bush needs to do today:

1. Tell the country, without equivo-
cation, that he knew all about the arms-
for-hostages swap and agreed to it,
notwithstanding any objections wt
some Cabinet members might have
had;

2. Tell Cap Weinberger that he can
and should, tell the country everything
he knows about George Bush’s in-
volvement in the arms deal;

3. Wait a decent interval and par n
Weinberger before the Holy Season.

Three presidencies have been dam-

w

_z

aged or destroyed by our dealings with . ‘

Iran. Let’s end it. Let’s, to use Ronald

I

@112 ‘iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . .1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 eb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate schoolyear at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not reﬂeet the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

GOP gears-up for wild rideiofthe future‘

WASHINGTON — Democrats dispensing jobs
are fending off phone calls from hundreds of people
who claim to have sat next to them in third grade.
Republicans are preparing to have their own fun.

“The delight of political life,” exclaims one par-
liamentarian in a Trollope novel, “is altogether in
opposition. The very inaccuracy which is permitted
to opposition is in itself a
charm worth more than all

surged, Bush yawned: “Time passes. Gravity occurs.
The tide goes out and low tide is on the way for Bill
Clinton.” On the way out today are the likes of Bond
and Charles Black, a Bush campaign official who

reportedly wants Bond’s job.
Black, a hired gun, calls to mind Churchill’s
description of Bolingbroke: “He could hit anynail on
the head, though
which particular

the patronage and all the pres-
tige of ministerial power.”
Not quite, but there is a de-
lightful Republican attempt

GEORGE WILL
Washington Post Writers Group

nail never seemed
important to him.”
As a leader of the
Black, Manafort,

to build conﬁdence on a rick-
ety scaffolding of little num-
bers.

Clinton got 3 percent less of the popular vote than
Dukakis got; Clinton got just 39 percent of the white
vote and 41 percent of the male vote, both what
Dukakis got. But Clinton’s weak numbers were pro-
duced by Perot’s exercise in political auto-eroticism.
Clinton’s strong number is: He won 100 percent of
the White House.

After 1988, the Democratic chorus seemed to
have shrunk to a duet of blacks and white liberals.
Large parts of both groups are public employees, so
the party looked like government organized as an
interest group. After its 1992 defeat the GOP looks
like a discordant duet of the affluent (the only eco-
nomic cohort Bush carried was people earning more
than $75,000) and the religious right. Still, the fact
that there can be such sudden reversals of parties’
fortunes (remember 1964-68 and 1972-76) stimu-
lates Republican hopes.

For now, the focus of Republican strife is the
chairmanship of the Republican National Commit-
tee, a position currently filled, or at least occupied, by
Rich Bond, whose delicacy can be gauged by his
dismissal of Clinton Democrats: “We are America.
These other people are not.” In July, as Clinton

Stone & Kelly in-
ﬂuence-factory in
Washington, he
symbolizes the Beltway political culture that most
members of the RNC, who live out in America,
despise. They will elect the next chairman in Janu-
ary.

Bond is having a conniption because Pete du
Pont, former Delaware governor and 1988 presiden-
tial candidate, expressed an interest in the RNC job
before Bush lost. “Absolute political treachery 
disloyal, unseemly and cowardly,” fumes Bond who,
being a Bush Republican, may find du Pont unintel-
ligible because du Pont takes ideas seriously.

Du Pont believes that the marginal advantage
Republicans can gain from further refining cam-
paign techniques (polling, focus groups, etc.) are
negligible. “We must place the marketing of our
ideas ahead of the selling of our candidates.” Candi-
dates coming to party headquarters should not learn
about “blue shirts and red ties or red dresses and
makeup for television” but rather about school choice,
free trade, capital gains tax policy, etc.

Conservative ideas, says du Pont, are harder to
sell than liberal ideas. The costs, or risks, of conser-
vative ideas often are irrirnediate and obvious, whereas
the benefits may be delayed and indirect. For ex-

ample, a capital gains rate reduction may increase the
deficit and make some rich people richer, “but the
benefit of a stronger economy arrives on a different
train, an unknown track and with an uncertain sched-
ule.”

Conservative ideas face marketing difficulties.
“The media don’t help because their inclinations run
a different course. The education system dc esn’thelp
because its own operations are based on a different
model. Most ‘non-partisan’ institutions—labor
unions, universities, the American Association of
Retired Persons, the League of Women Voters-
don’thelp because their philosophy is the opposite of
ours.” I

Du Pont, whose credentials include Bond’s hos-
tility, would be an energizing party chairman. How-
ever, if other potential presidential candidates will
not allow that, the new chairman should at least be
someone unaligned with any candidate (which mig
rule out retiring Minnesota Rep. Vin Weber, who is

close to Jack Kemp). but who would use people like ,

du Pont to stress ideas. Hence the considerable sup-
port for Spence Abraham. .-
He is a founder of The Federalist Society, which
plants the seeds of conservatism in the stony groun
of law schools and courts. When he was chairman
the Michigan GOP he helped lay the groundwork for
the election of an activist conservative governor,
John Engler. The Republican resurgence in Michi-
gan continued this year—against the Bush undertow,
and in a state with many minority and union voters-
with Republicans making fresh gains in the state
legislature. 4
Currently Abraham is co-chairrnan of the Na-

tional Republican Congressional Committee, where t '

he did not renew any of the committee’s 57 contracts
with consultants and still made the first Republican _
gains in the House in four elections. Those are 57
reasons for choosing him.

©1992, Wa.s'hing_ton Post Writers Group_ 0

Spos chills cadets with his reality -

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

Spos wishes to discuss this business
about VMI. As Spos understands it, a
long-standing brotherly relationship be-
tween two schools sharing the same
city has been, if you will, shot to hell.

It seems that certain Veemies can’t
seem to behave at frat parties anymore.
I think that most of the student body of
W&L would stand behind Spos if he
were to address these cadets and say
(excuse Spos if he borrows a line from
Say Anything) “YOU MUST
CHILL!!!”

Understandably, one too many beers
or shots of whiskey tends to make one
prone to rowdy behavior, but this is
getting just a bit ridiculous.

As if to add insult to injury, some
cadets seem to be proud of this
adversarial relationship. Spos’ under-
ground spies at VMI tell him that a
couple of deranged cadets had T-shirts
printed up that list each ﬁght between

VMI cadets and W&Lstudents and the
number of W&L students that have
been sent to the hospital as a result.
Spos thinks that a few enterprising
W&L students should head down to

cadets into your frat parties and treat
them as honored guests. Cadets: prom-
ise that if you feel the need to hit
something, you will go to the Hill and
take out your frustrationson the Watson

Big Dog Graphics and get aT— Gallery. In such a manner, we
shirt printed up that lists the will either solve the hostil-
girlfriends of cadets that Veemies’ ity problem or we will
a.r:1:c:’g;3[tlng‘$(‘;LI1il-‘C ontlie heed Spos, word. gletrid otf tit? énost use.
si e rom guys. . ess ui mg on
Unfortunately,either . W&L’s cam us.
the type would have You might be able Spos could live
to be almost micro- to put a Mink in the quite comfortably
sco ic to fit on the - either wa .

shift, or the shirt hospltal’ but your Sposuiishesthat
would have to be as gil-[friend will be the above agree-
big as the AIDS quilt . . . . mentcould solve our
to fit all of the names. Vlsltmg hlm there littleproblem,butun-
Veemies, heed Spos’ h n X fortunately, the pre-
word: Youmightbeable t Ea e t ferred cadet method of
to put a Mink in the hospi- y’ stress release involves
tal, but your girlfriend will be bashing a Mink’s head into
visiting him there the next day. some immovable barrier (like the side-

Seriously though, Spos has the ulti-
mate solution to the W&L-VMI prob-
lem. It requires a bit of compromise on
both sides. W&L guys: promise to let

walk) until the Mink’s brains leak out
his ears and nose. Until someone comes
out with a dependable Veemie repel-
lent, Minks will have to learn to defend

themselves against angry cadets. Spos
suggests the following techniques:

ElArm Yourselves Very few thin
can match the sweetness of levelling an
angry cadet with a .357 Magnum (avail-
able at Kelly's Comer for a nominal
charge). Also does wonders for that
deep-seeded blood lust.

Cl Vehicular Homicide If you can
tolerate a few front—end paint chips 0
your Ford Explorer, this is an effective
way to deal with aggressive enemies.
(Spos’ Uncle Vito, who doesn’t ex-
actly play with a full deck, recom-
mends this method.)

Cl Distraction Method A cadet
can ’t resist the sight of a naked female‘.
Carry some cutouts from Playboy, Pent-
house and Hustler in your jacket in
case an angry cadet threatens you.

Seriously though, Spos hopes that
any VMI readers will take this along
with the spirit of humor. In case they

don’t, any death threats may be mailec '

to Spos care of The Ring-tum Phi. I
must warn you: any threats will imme-
diately be “processed” by Uncle Vito.

 

  

I he Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1992

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

9 .
o the Editor:

To the Editor:
My colleague Lou Hodges’ charac-
’ terization of the Phi’ s new subscription
policy as “silly and misguided” (Phi,
Nov. 5) is unfair and simplistic. It rings
praty hollow whena man who preaches
condescendingly about “the proper
function of a student newspaper” ad-
mits he can’t be bothered to walk 100
yards and plunk down a quarter for it.
The editors of the Phi have finally
had the wisdom to make clear that, in
effect, the paper’s relationship with
, both the Executive Committee and the
administration is that of newspaper to
1 customer, not newspaper to publisher.
‘ What Prof . Hodges calls a “subsidy” is
indeed a bulk subscription. The Phi
A . publishes a newspaper; the students
pzﬁ for it with a portion of their activi-
‘ ties fee, distributed by the EC. A news-
A paper is never totally independent; the
question is which pressures help it ful-
«fill its mission, and which threaten to
force it to sacrifice that mission.
As recently as last spring, some

: l/MI wants peace too Phi Delt apo

é Until now, I have not commented on the changes
t Washington and Lee. Over the past 10 years, the
~ hool has evolved from one of the most unique
nstitutions in the country to a commonplace small
coeducational university. Into the “no comment”
category I place events such as the rigid attempts to
introduce political correctness into the curriculum
2 d student life, the notably absent camaraderie and
courtesy within the student body that existed prior to
coeducation, the retirement of old guard faculty
members and even the deterioration of The Ring-tum
Phi (this list is by no means exhaustive).
“ volution of W&L Women” in last week’s Phi,
, owever, compels me to remark on the new Wash-
gton and Lee. The article proves that some of the
eservations of those alumni, students and faculty
pposed to coeducation 10 years ago have come true.
e comments of Miss Fischer and Miss Donnelly
articul arly vindicate those who were against coedu-
tion. The opinions of these two individuals illus-
atgthat W&L has been transformed from an insti-
tion characterized by a relaxed (yet still top-notch)
~=cademic environment and a well-rounded, hospi-
' ble student body to one marked by divisive inten-
,.ity in the classroom and arrogance in segments of

° Phi subscription controversy rages on

the student body.

and countless others.

forum.

members of the EC thought that the Phi
was theirs to rim as they pleased. That
was rriade clear, when, in a fit of pique
over Ms. Lopiccolo’s superb reporting
of the Hudnall trial, they began hinting
darkly about yanking the Phi’s fund-
mg.

The story Ms. Lopiccolo wrote was
necessary to show how the jurors could
have returned the verdict they did.
Thank goodness she showed the moral
courage to see her duty as a responsible
journalist.

Thank goodness also for the debate
and criticism that ensued. A newspa-
per should hear from its readers, and
they should feel free to question and
criticize the stories reporters write and
the issues and events those stories re-
flect. The newspaper should listen to
those critiques.

But lively response from readers is
a far cry from ham-handed attempts at
control by intermediaries threatening
to draw tight the purse strings. A news-
paper should be responsible and re-

Coeducation made W&L commonplace

Miss Donnelly states that “it would be unrealistic
to go to a single-sex college” because “life isn’t like
that.” It may be news to Miss Donnelly, but single-
sex education has been, and continues to be a tremen-
dously successful method of education, not to men-
tion a highly desirable one for many. The fact that
“life” is not single sex did not seem to impair the
successes of graduates of the old W&L such as
Senator John Warner, Roger Mudd, Tom Wolfe,
members of the Alumni Board and Board of Trustees

My advice to Miss Donnelly is to avoid making
trite comments. A more efficient use of her time
would be the scheduling an appointment with Dean
Schroer-Lamont to discuss her egotistical concern
that professors “feel like girls are something to look
at.” No doubt that she will find sympathy in that

As for Miss Fischer, her “wish” that the students
from the area women’s colleges would “go some-
where else to party” is the paradigm of arrogance and
conceit. I am personally glad that this was not the
prevailing sentiment when I was an undergraduate,
otherwise I would not have met my wife, a Hollins
graduate. However, Miss Fischer should probably

OPINION

continue to avoid contact with the women’s college

institution.

students; if she ever had to compete with the highly
intelligent, well-rounded and focused women gradu-
ates of single—sex schools whom I have encountered
in the banking and legal professions, she would end
up wishing that she too had attended an all-female

While I opposed coeducation, I am the first to
admit that there have been some positive changes
since the Board’s 1983 decision. What I find distress-
ing are the self-important attitudes of individuals
such as Miss Donnelly and Miss Fischer, and the fact
that they represent and bring to life many of the
apprehensions articulated by the opponents of co-
education in 1983.

W&L is a very different school than it was when
I was a freshman nearly 10 years ago, and it will never
be the same. I wish the current students could expe-

rience the W&L that I knew. The single-sex history

past.

sponsive to its readers, not to self-
styled protectors of their interests. The
Phi’s relationship to the EC is not that
of a property to its publisher/owner,
who can pull the plug at will.

Ifthe Phi’s readers find it not worth
the 23 cents a week they pay to be
informed, amused, challenged and oc-
casionally provoked, then it is their
prerogative to look elsewhere for cam-
pus news. Setting up the EC’s contri-
bution as a bulk subscription is an
effective reminder to everyone of how
newspapers serve, and to whom they
should be responsive and responsible.

If the Phi’s relationship to the stu-
dent body is that of newspaper to sub-
scribers, then it’s obvious the faculty is
getting a freebie at students’ expense.
But for Prof. Hodges and others who
find their “professional obligation”
strained to bursting by having to heave
themselves over to the Co—op and, God
forbid, spend 25 cents, I offer a few
suggestions:

First, in the interest of faculty and

of the University and the important role played by the
women’s colleges warrant respect and appreciation.
With this in mind, perhaps people will think twice
before they make inane comments about W&L’s

Brandt Surgner ’87, ’94L

administration goodwill, the Phi could
unilaterally decide to continue having
students eat the cost of faculty sub-
scriptions. In the alternative, the Phi
could poll its paying readers to deter-
mine their preference.

Or, as was suggested in Mr. Lake’s
article of Nov. 5, let’s look at the obvi-
ous quid pro quo: In return for using
space in the student center, university
telephones, custodial services and se-
curity, let the Phi provide the paper to
faculty and administration.

The Phi isn't looking for a free ride,
or a way to be less responsive. It is
looking for a way to be more directly
responsive to its readers. Perpetuating
the myth that the paper exists thanks to
the benign largess of student govem-
mentor administration is wrong-headed
and dangerous. Dismantling that myth
is hardly what Prof. Hodges calls a
shell game.

Brian Richardson
Assistant Professor, Journalism

»To the Editor:

    
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
   
 
  

.are essential elements in promoting good relations between

W&L and VMI. To that end, I would like to correct a
«possible misunderstanding in the Phi’s reporting of con-
_ ﬂicts between students and cadets. Following the incident in

October, it was Col. Mike Bissell, the commandant at VMI,
-who initiated the meeting where we discussed ways to
lessen the tension between our two fine schools. Col. Bissell
‘ deserves full credit for that effort.

‘Sincerely,
David L. Howison
Dean of Students

,To the W&L community: I I ;
J :5 on behalf of the Brothers of Phi Delta -Theta, - '

‘ Open lines of communication and a" spirit of cooperation ,3 j V
‘ Virginia Zeta, I would like to apologize for the"

graffiti displayed in the Boiler Room at our Hell’s

Angels Party last spring. The graffiti was inap~ ,

propriate, distasteful, and demonstrated an ap-
palling lack of respect for women.

The purpose of this letter is two-fold. Prima-
rily, we wish to convey to the community our
realization of our mistake. At the time we weren’t
aware of the impact that the graffiti would have
on the W&L community because it was done in
a joking manner. Since then, we honestly have
grown in our understanding of sensitive issues
and we feel nothing less than disgust for our
actions. With earnest, we can say that such ac-
tions will never happen again in connection with

Iogizes for boiler room

: The subsequent goal-ofrthis letter is to advise;
other organizations to avoid siichuncivil behav-

ior in the future. We would likewio recommend“

education that encourages mutual respect for in-
dividual differences, desires, and ways of think-
ing. This description of proper behavior was an
essential part of Lee's expectations of W&L
students during his tenure as president. The tradi-
tion of gentlemanly conduct needs to be directed
to a more acute level, dealing with the increased
sensitivities present today. Greater awareness of
such issues is the goal at hand.

Sincerely,
Jim Eddings ’93
President, Phi Delta Theta

  
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   

I To the Editor:
‘ This letter is in response to Jimmy
Kull’s letter in the Phi last week re-

‘ he was asked for identification at the
General Headquarters. The General
Headquarters is bound by ABC laws in
_ addition to the Honor System. It would
be ideal if the state of Virginia allowed
4‘
0

I

‘ ’gajling the violation of his honor when '

the Honor System to suffice for age
identification for the serving of alco-
holic beverages in the GHQ. Unfortu-
nately, the state does not make such an
exception. State law requires that serv-
ers of alcoholic beverages ID anyone
who looks under 30.

If the servers fail to do so they are
personally liable and jeopardize the

restaurant’s beer and wine license. The
students, the GHQ, the SAB and many
other organizations using the GHQ for
private parties would suffer if the GHQ
lost its beer and wine license. There-
fore, the employees of the GHQ will
continue to ID students who wish to
drink alcoholic beverages.
It’s the law.

      

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

What is your most embarrassing moment while
intoxicated?

TALKBACK

 

‘GHQ bound by state law in addition to Honor System

Sincerely,

Melissa Philipps ’93

Monika Jaensson ’93L

Chris Crenshaw ’93

General Headquarters Managers

 

SkiCIub

Anyone, of any skill level, in-
terested in joining the ski club/team,
please come to an organizational
meeting Thursday, Dec. 3 at 7 pm.
in Newcomb 10. Officers will be
elected. Questions? Call John at
463-9495.

Pre- Law

A meeting for undergraduate
students interested in organizing a
Pre-Law Society on campus will be
held Wednesday, Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. in
the Commerce School room 221.
Members of Phi Alpha Delta legal
fraternity will provide leadership
for the society. All students con-
sidering law school after gradua-
tion are encouraged to attend. Ques-
tions? Contact Prof. John in Com-
merce School 125-B.

Holiday Service

A Thanksgiving Service open to
the public will be held on Thurs-
day,Nov.19at7p.m. inI..ee Chapel.
The service will be casual and in-
fomial and all are encouraged to
participate. Questions? Call Jer-
emy Meadows at 463-1197.

Summer Credits

The Fund for American Studies,
in Washington, D.C. has announced
that this year's summer institutes
will take place from June 9 to July
24, 1993. The Institute on Com-
parative Political and Economic
Systems, The Institute on Political
Journalism, and The Bryce Harlow
Institute on Business and Govem-
ment Affairs are held at Georgetown
University. Students earn a mini-

rnumofsixcneditsferparticipatibns. 3w)m_ Eyagtgtiﬁ mgfﬁnglish
mthe i>rosram- Numerous 9.¢h0la17zrr.i i:_1,>eiiari:iient.t 

ships are available based both on
merit and ﬁnancial need. Applica-
tions will be accepted until March
15, 1993. For more information
contact The Fund for American
Studies, 1526 18th Street, N.W,.,
Washington, D.C. 20036 or call
202-986-0384.

WLUR

WLUR-FM will be signing off
for Thanksgiving Break on Friday,
Nov. 20 at noon after the Mid-day
Report. WLUR will resume nor-
mal broadcasting Monday, Nov. 30.
Questions? Call Jeremy Meadows
at 463-8443.

Lost and Found

Several pairs of eyeglasses and
sun glasses have been turned into
room 104 of the University Cen-
ter. There is also a lens cap and
several pieces of jewelry. See
Carol Calkins to claim.

Help Wanted

Do you have some free time?
Would you like to earn some extra
money? I am looking for two
students who would like to be pro-
jectionists for the Troubadour Cin-
ema Winter and Spring terms. Ex-
perience not required but helpful.
Be prepared to set aside a few
hours for training. Contact Carol
Calkins, room 104 of the Univer-
sity Center, ext. 8590, for details.

Club Fencing

Club Fencing will be starting
again Winter term. Interested per-
sons (male or female) should call
either Coach Lyles at 463-8683 or '
Chris Keller at 463-4884 for de-
tails.

Scholarships

Members of Phi Eta Sigma may
contact Dean Sessions, Washing-
ton Hall 24, about scholarship op-
portunities. Awards of $2000 are
available to seniors going on to
graduate school and $1000 to eli-
gible undergraduates.

Scholars

Anyone interest/edin, joining 1
University Scholars‘ please con’-’ ‘

":‘i:=li"}'" tn:

I *1

Lost

A gray Patagonia pullover was
lost in the Pavilion last Sunday. If
found, please call 463-3676.

Get It Out

Letters and My Views to The
Ring-tum Phi should be submitted
to room 208 of the University Cen-
ter before noon on Tuesday. Car-
toons are also accepted.

General Notes are compiled by Matt I-laar

  
 
 
    

— “My first three years at W&L.”
f
0

I

. Amy Way, ’93, Houston, Texas —

Jeff Nuckols, ’93, Lexington, Va.
-—-— “I asked some random Sem chick
to FD my freshman year. Thank God

she said no.”

Lisee Goodykoontz, ’94, Richmond, Va. and Anne Salisbury, ’93, Balti-

more, Md.

—— “We pride ourselves on our ability to have fun without alcohol.”

Andy Woodring, ’93, Short Hills,

N.J. —— “I woke up in the Davis
showers the Sunday morning after FD.”

Betsy Treadway, ’95; Mount
Kisco,N.Y.-——“Iswallowedaquarter
while playing quarters and had John
Cherry give me the Heirnlich maneu-

V61’.

   

 

PAGE 4

By ToM HESPOS
Phi Staff Writer

unday, Nov. 8, 9:30 a.m.: The cold morning
breeze ripples Jameson I_eonardi’s camou-
ﬂage jacket. The weak morning sun doesn’t

yet have the strength to keep us warm. Jay
Strong looks conﬁdent, his smile gleaming brighter
than the sun reflecting off his weapon. Tom Hespos
scans the terrain, looking for any scrap of cover that
might serve him in the game that is about to begin.

Seems almost like a childhood game of “army
soldiers,” doesn’t it? Well, for all intents and pur-
poses, it is, with a modern technological twist.

The game is paintball and it has been described as
one of the country’s fastest growing sports.

Our particular paintball adventures occurred at
Bernie Clayton’s Outdoor Pursuits, a paintball facil-
ity located in Dillwyn, Va., about 35 miles south of
Charlottesville.

Outdoor Pursuits ’ brochure describes paintball as
“the second most fun you’ll ever have,” and that
description isn’t far from the truth.

Clayton leases a 340-acre site on which there are
several Paintball playing fields. Clayton can, and
does, run several different games at once on the
different playing ﬁelds.

Participants in the paintball experience are given
apaintball gun, which ﬁres small capsules filled with
colored paint at about 300 feet per second.

The guns are powered by pressurized carbon
dioxide, much like a pellet or BB gun.

The guns can hold over 100 capsules at a time,
which is usually enough for one game. The guns are

FEATURES

Bang! You’re dead, dude!

carefully calibrated so that no gun can fire faster than
the lntemational Paintball Players Association’s es-
tablished ﬁgure of 300 fps.

Additional paintball equipment consists of a full-
face mask and goggles to protect the face and eyes,
a bandanna to protect the neck, and heavy military-
style camouﬂage clothing. As Clayton will tell you,
safety is the first priority in paintball.

Clayton says in his mandatory safety speech that
paintball, as a sport, has
a lower injury rate than
golf. This statistic comes\ \
from Control Systems, \ I

Inc., which cites figures

   

he said. “There’s a certain intimidation factor in-
volved in using one of these.”
Hague tells us that players can spend over $500 on
a fully-automatic gun, aprice that is normally beyond
the reach of the average college student. Clayton
says, however, that the fully-automatic machine gtms
“don’t really work,” and that better guns can be
purchased for about $285.
One of the tournament officials was Stuart
Johnston, a University
I’ of Virginia student who
_ p / had experiencedpaintball
‘/ at other Virginia courses
/ before coming to Outdoor

   

compiled by the National ' . Pursuits.
Safety Council.  Johnston tellsus thatU.Va.
According to Clayton, over ispretty serious aboutpaintball,
5,000 people have played on his offering a six-week physical
course without a serious injury. education course on the sport.
The rules of the game are What would prompt a stu-
quite simple. Players must \ , dent to take paintball as a
capture a ﬂag placed on the

ﬁeld somewhere without / / .
getting shot. “Wounded” //

players must immedi-

ately leave the playing

field. Any “wound” larger than the size of anickel is
an ofﬁcial kill.

Many different games can be derived from this
simple “capture the ﬂag” concept. Our second and
third games were simple: capture the other team’s
flag and bring it back to your base without getting
shot. Later versions (our fourth and ﬁfth games)
were known as “search and destroy games” where
one team hides a ﬂag anywhere on the playing ﬁeld
at eye level and the
opposing team must
try to ﬁnd it.

The brochure lists
six types of Paintball
games for players to

try. 4
HarveyHague, of
Charlottesville, is a
member of Hazard-
ous Waste, a team
made up of players
from around Vir-
ginia, described as
“Virginia’s merce-
narypaintballtearn.”
Playing under the
name “F-Troop,”
members of Hazard-
ous Waste showed up
with three machine
guns, smoke gre-
nades and full carn-
ouflage gear.

 
   

 

. course?
\ \ “I had played paintball

\ before,” Johnston said,

“and I knew what I was
getting into.”

According to Clayton, “The course teaches safety,
proper use of equipment, strategy and tactics, hand
signals and code words, and stresses the importance
of teamwork and communication.”

Students taking the course receive one physical
education credit for their efforts.

The game is easy to get into. Beginning players
are pitted against players at their own ability level.

Clayton stresses the feeling of being a part of a
team that occurs when one plays paintball.

“Team players win and Rarnbos always lose,” he
says.

He recommends the sport to promote camaraderie
and open better lines of communication. He also
recommends thepaintball
experience to fraternities
and sororities or any other
group that would like to
experience its benefits.

Like many paintball
players, Clayton is trying
to promote the team ben-
eﬁts of paintball rather
than compare it to a war
or battlefield scenario.

“We try to stay away
from the war image as
much as possible,”
--—-—j Clayton says. “The cor-
porate groups are the ones picking up on the interest.”

Clayton tells of a division of the marketing depart-

Johnston tells
us that U.Va. is
pretty serious
about paintball,
offering a six-
week physical
e d u c a t i o n
course on the
sport.

ment of PepsiCo that came to Outdoor Pursuits as a ’

reward for reaching a corporate goal.

The Ring-tum Phl, November 19, 1992 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Asian garment
5 Provide food for
10 Footnote abbr.

5 6

  
 

14 Chester — ‘
Arthur .
15 Small egg '3
16 Title 
17 A Supreme g
18 Kingly . 2’
19 Feel f_
20 Show up 1‘
22 Small pieces 
24 Greek god
26 Where to get a -‘
hero 
27 Lab substance '=
31 Neglected H
35 Coal scuttle O l
36 Book of maps :
38 — Haute .
39 Burden l
41 Like a teetotaler ’
43 Seven —
44 Shakes violently
46 Erninent I ®1A9"9ZF’“';;::>;:r;‘e6sh2:3:,SeNices. Inc. 1  
jg 2;9;rg§g§>s5'V° Last Week’s Answers
51 Yellow turnip 3
53 Casks
55 Timber tree 11 Harden by .
56 Consign to an heating 
obscure place 12 False: abbr. ‘
60 Adhesive 13 Lairs
64 Satie or Estrada 21 Opera highlight
65 Wash lightly 23 Conspiracy
67 Spread for toast 25 Beauty shop
68 Succulentplant 27 Combination of
69 Singer —— John tones
70 As blind as — 28 Respect
71 Gainsay 29 Bring out
72 Fat 30 Toll
73 Alliance letters 32 Garbo of films
33 Ape
DOWN 34 Seed coating
1 Teasdale of 37 Put together
poetry 40 Roller rink item
2 Drooping 42 Uncommuni-
3 Speak hoarsely cative
4 Pants part 45 Self-satisfied
5 Fixes 47 Hamlet. eg.
6 — Maria 50 Captures ,*
7 Towboats 52 Lament
8 African antelope 54 Pole for walking
9 Kind of tall 58 Cat 62 Tidy
pitcher 56 Peruse 59 Within: pref. 63 ln —— (entirely) Q ‘
10 Motivates 57 Writer Gardner 61 Isle of exile 66 French coin '

Virginia.”

He is also scheduled to appear at a reading for

Sbar’s back! ‘

Former Phi humor colurrmist and '91 graduate,
Jon Sbar, is scheduled for a booksigning Dec. 2 at
2 p.m. in the W&L bookstore. His featured book
is also his first. The Undergraduate Almanac: A
Low-Life Guide to Higher Education takes place
at “Exclusive U nestled in the hills at Traditional,

 

     
    
    

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

    

 

pm“, by Jason Leonard. 7-he Hmg ,Um_Pm “We’re only go- “People must work together to achieve acommon 5¢1°CtedPa5538e5 0fhi5b°0k 3t4330P-m- inPaYne v
' ingtouseoneofthese objective ” Clayton says “to have as much fun as H3“: D99 2-
Tournament players take a break from the paintball actlvltes. machinegunswday » legally pgssible .. ’ «
tunt-.-4t-;*§iéi9Ii4§¥4t-;4n+.4zt¢;%;-r't-i—.t-o-1l3o-o-.-t\vantunv.-4tgrt4;-n¢.m-.-n-.w.-4 \’o'l\“o'l\'o"l \' '4t'o'4t'o'4\"o'4 S . 0 . 0 -S‘
V rﬁrriirﬁvﬁiiﬁriitiﬁrrﬁiiiirﬁirﬁiiﬁirﬁuvﬁvrﬁirﬁlvxivﬁrrﬁtﬁiatvﬁviurﬁviirﬁvivﬁuﬁr  Cannondale ‘ TREK ' Dlarnond Back - Glant I n ’ i o
git; gag: Jansport day packs and book bags c|ud|otfOn|cs 0
Eggs g ;. ' ° AUDIO - VIDEO - cm sn:-Rso ‘
 the  Lex1ngtonB1ke Shop om some .,
:33; $3; 130 s. Main SL Mon.- Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon , 463-7969 egg; 31:3: NTZ .
1;: -1   g“; V////////////////////////// //////////////////////////////////////////////////////// KEF CW0
, =, :4 ,« / / BOSTON DEFlNl'l’lVE ‘B
.3131. g :1 g y g KLIPSCH BAZOOKA *
   g . ‘ é ' SPEAKER TRADE UP PFl‘?|r‘GNRAM
w = v ’« ‘ - BUYER PROTECTTON
1:“ - - -  Z up Q gr‘ 2 
 Ct1V1t1eS  g :r::s.*r::.*s3:.*.r¢3.2z....
0 O 9‘ _e 0 0
13831 gag é Ladies’ Shoes, Clothmg g (339) 463-5667 F.
::1 3:  g   g Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
.4 ,= =, / / Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
. :~ 4:» / 23 N. Main st. (703) 463-5988 / 2750 Ogden ma . n....t.
'3‘; 1: =1 ¢ Lexington, VA 24450 /
Ettj    MA -
28:1  SPRING BREAK ‘93
r 1 ’. . ,
  Valle 7/7a2Wl&ce SELL TRIPS’ v
  Y EARN CASH
:3‘:  & GO FREE!!! ‘

5 "2 C ’. .‘ _

 far Ch 141 S tm 3 S  E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 CALL 1-800-648-4849.
   E3": . . . . .

 . git; you are corrfzaffy minted to an mformaf '
'2 3 38;: . . . .

 V V ken d. . .  gatfrertng of Heidi and Her cfosestfnemisl

 

3,5,  THE HEIDI CHRONICLES

31:32 33;: 1, '
‘$33 ‘ Eitj y . .
13333 1 n E Q 0 r S :23; Wend)’ Wasserstem .
E3: 0 :3; J
593 V ' 51:2‘

 and 

Egg: . git: J
51:32 4 . .:  ,
 “Honeymoon in 

21:2 

   

 V ,,  I .

 g  K57/T.‘ December 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 8: 9 at 8 PM

 I  December 6 at 2 PM

 UXIIXIKXCIXIKxllxllxlIXIIXIVOW|'O'l|'O'l|'O'l|'O'l|"O'l|'O'lI’0'1|'O'l1'0"I|'9"l|'O'lBxlV0‘!|"O'l|"O"l|'O'l|'O'l|'O'l|'g:g  8  9  i . ,
r.'o'.\rxtrxvxtrxtrxtrxtrxvxuxtIX‘rxuxivxirxvxtvxtrxtrxuxvxvxvxvxtvxxrxuxuxuxt     ‘

 Caming H   Hardware, Paint and Related Items

= - Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

Sun. 1-5 p.m.

Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus
representatives. Ski
packages also available

 

    

 

._-.".;. 2-33.. ..  -gym. ‘

     
 
    
 

   
  
  
  
  
  
       
 

  i
i

,1 SPIRAL SLICED
t

  

‘I he Ring-tum Phl, November 19, 1992

  
  

SAVE $1.00 PER LB.

30-40 COUNT

- LARGE

 

l
 HAMILTON HONEY GLAZED

WHOLE

WHOLE OR
HALF



TDELI-BAKERY

  BOLOGNA

SLICED TO
ORDER

' LB.

 
  

   
  
        
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
   
    
     
  
   
  
   
      
 
 

Job Opportunities
In The Retail Grocery Field

° FOR STUDENTS

Why Work For
Harris Teeter?

1) Flexible work hours designed
to assist students with school
activities.
2) On-the-job-training
3) Good starting pay
4) Pay raises based on individual
experience.
5) Paid vacation after 1 year of
service
6) year round employment
7) career opportunities after
graduation

Join The Best Team In

Town!
_ Our Openin s Are Immediate
And Will e Filled As We
Interview, So Don't Delay.

Come By Any Harris Teeter

. Location.

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON
' $1 00 OFF‘
~| 0 I

'1 ANY $3.00 on MORE I
*I PURCHASE IN cure I
L I PRODUCE DEPARTMENT I

I I THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED. I
I LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY PER VISIT I
OFFER GOOD NOV. 18, THRU NOV. 24, I992

COUPON PRODUCE I
I i.‘i>’¢i I

PLU 2289GJ

L_.________....

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITER 8 9

REDUCED
PRICE

  
 
  
 
 

PAGE 5

HUNTER ALL NATURAL
ICE CREAM OR

REGULAR OR LIGHT

G
ICIAYONNAISE  32 02099

SELECTED VARIETIES
PRINGLES

CHIPS ................ .. 6- 702.099
CORD 

SONY
BATTERIES .................. ..2 CT.

FLORIDA'$ NATURAL
ORAN

GE
JUICE 9 9
REGULAR OR
HOMESTYLE

  
 
 

SPECIAL
64 OZ. PRICE
WE SPECIAL
RIDGIES 
REGULAR OR
SOUR CREAM
& ONION

6OZ..

g  
L ' Prices Effective Through November 24, I992

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday November I8 Throu
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sod To Dea ers. We Gladiy Accept federal food Stamps.

hluescia , Nov. 24, 1992. In Lexington Stores Only

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The ing—u Phi I

The Generals seniors: Standlng- Sean Gatewood, Evans Edwards, Bob Ehret, Thomas May, Kevin
Gorman. Kneeling- Andy Woodring, Josh Levlnson, Phil Spears, Wade Roblnett, Stuart North, Lyle

Smith.

Generals stumble,

C! From FINALE, page 6

William Propst for 21 yards.

A few plays later, Mason went in for
six from one yard out. At the half,
W&L only trailed by seven.

The third quarter flew by without
any points. Then the teams got busy.

The Hoyas struck first, as the
Demarest-to-Murphy combination
clicked from five yards out, 21-7.

The Generals responded a few min-
utes later when Mason scored his sec-
ond of the game on another one-yard
plunge.

Then Georgetown made a crucial
play. They blocked Drew Thomas’
extra point attempt, his ﬁrst extra point
miss of the season. W&L now trailed
by eight.

The Hoyas went right back to work,

From Staff Reports

Both Washington and Lee cross
country teams finished their seasons
on Saturday at the Division III regional
championships.

The women’s team capped an in-
credible season with a third place ﬁn-
ish behind the winner Emory, and 12
points behind archrival Mary Wash-
ington College. The third-place finish
was the highest ever for the women’s
team.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer re-
turned to her usual spot atop the finish-

though. Murphy caught his third TD
pass of the afternoon, a 12-yard offer-
ing from Demarest. The Hoyas missed
their extra point, and W&L was still
alive, trailing by 14.

But it was not to be.

The Generals scored their ﬁnal
touchdown of the season with no time
left on the clock and missed the two-
point conversion, which made the ﬁnal
seore, Georgetown 27, Washington and
Lee 19.

The dramatic turnaround from last
year’s 1-9 season did not go unnoticed,
and a number of Generals were hon-
ored by the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference. '

The main General, Gary Fallon, was
named ODAC Coach of the Year for
the third time in his career. He also
earned the title in 1981 and in 1988.

Sports Notebook

ers’ list.

Schaeffer tamed the Sewanee
course in 18:35, 37 seconds better than
her nearest competitor. It was a strong
rebound after the strange happenings
during the ODAC championships.

With the win Schaeffer became the
first W&Lfemale runnerto everqualify
for the NCAA Division III national
championships.

Both Schaeffer and fellow fresh-
man Amy Mears, who finished 10th
overall, earned all-region honors.

The men also finished strong, com-
ing in seventh out of 21 teams.

27-19

Four players were named to the
ﬁrst-team all-ODAC: wide receiver
William Propst, right guard John Sur-
face, punter Bob Ehret and place kicker
Drew Thomas.

Propst also ended the season as the
ODAC’s receptions leader with 48.
He's the first General to win it twice.

Three others were named to the
second team: defensive end Phil Spears,
linebacker Lyle Smith and free safety
Marc Newman.

The Generals will now have high
expectations for next year. They still
have a very young team, and barring

any major changes, they should do
even better in 1993.

Fallon summed up what this entire
season has been like for the team in
three little words.

“It was fun!”

VAFINER & POLE

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

BUY ONE PIZZA

GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

 

delivered hot and last to your door.

© 1989 Pizza Hut, lnc.

   

01989 Pizza Hut, Inc.

all Us
and Keep
Crammin g.

Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge
of those late night munchies. Try our famous
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings,

Pizza Hut Delivery . . . Great taste delivered!

2 pizzas for the price of 1

BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE

NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS OR DISCOUNTS
REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY
WITH COLLEGE ID

: Call: 463-7000

: Offer expires 12-18-92

our drivers any no more than $20.

I-Ilut.

llrnibddoivcryam.

r---------------------1

Student Special

ta:
-Hut.

1/20 cant cash rederrptlon value.

\,

Senior Bo Hannah extended his fr-
nal season by qualifying for the na-
tional meet with a third place finish.

Hannah led for part- of the race, but
had to settle for third with a time of
25 :5 1.

Both Schaeffer and I-larmah will
take part in the national meet on Satur-
day, Nov . 21 . Schaeffer has approached
national times during some of her races
this year, so she might enter as a favor-
rte.

The women’s team ﬁnished the sea-
son with an astounding 22-4; they
posted a solid 19-14 mark.

Student Housing Available
for ‘93-‘94. 1 to 5 Bedroom
Houses right outside city limits.
Average Rent $200.

Ask for Mitchell or Mark Scharer
M-F 463-2823 7:30-5:00

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCEM
Individualsand Student Organizations
wanted to [remote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-8(X)-327-6013

SPRINGBREAKERS.
Promote our Honda Spring
Break packages. Earn MONEY
and FREE trips. Organize
SMALL or LARGE groups

' - 2

the Phi
HELP
WANTED:

GET INVOLVED!

The Ring-tum Phi is
seeking outgoing stu-
dents for advertising
sales. It's good for the

resume, especially for C-
School majors! Leave a
message for Benjy at 463-
8581, or leave a note with
Mrs. Calkins in the U.Ctr.

The Ring-tum Phi is also
seeking a reader-rela-
tions coordinator. Great
experience in public
relations. Call Cathy or
Rick at 463-8581, or leave
us a note with Carol
Calkins in the U. Center.

 

rLast We - '  
ek. ~ ~ ~ This Week:
Footban- G’town 27,w&L 19 (5-4) @113 53319 mm 1311 I BKB- 11/20&21 at Trinity Invit.;24 at
CC- (W) 3rd—(M) 7th at Regionals Sewanee;28 at B’water;30 at Va. Wes.
Swim-(M) W&L 108-Centre 71 (1-0) MSwim- at MWC 11/21 ’
L (W) W&L 94-Centre 72 (1-0) WSwim- at Hollins Invit. 11/20&21 *
A

PAGE 6 FOOTBALL, WATER POLO, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY NOVEMBER 19, 1%;

Hoyas pick apart Generals in final game

WL seniors aresent  nown note W&L finshes with best record since ’88 ’ 

.,_

v

By SEAN O’RoURr<E
Phi Sports Editor

1

 

Q

“The thrill of victory, and the agony of defeat.” _ ,

For more than a quarter century, Jim McKay's timeless opening for Al$’s
Wide World of Sports has signified the glory of sports. *9

The Washington and Lee football team experienced more of the thrills of
success than the agonies of failure this season. After surviving the 1991 season .
the Generals displayed character and poise in 1992, and that helped them to a 5
4 record, their first winning season since 1988.

“Going into the season we knew we were going to be a better football team,’
said head coach Gary Fallon. “We just didn’t know if we were good enough to
win, but we wanted to be competitive.”

The Generals were competitive in almost every game this year and thei
season finale was no exception. -

The Georgetown Hoyas came to Wilson Field sporting a 3-6 mark, a far cry
from the 6-3 mark they had last year when the Generals visited them. Well, like
last year, the underdog came away victorious.

Georgetown used a couple of big passing plays to beat W&L 27-19. Faﬁlon
says those plays were the key to the game.

“They big-played us,” Fallon said. “That's what wins games for you. We did
that a couple times this season, but this time they did it to us.”

The Hoyas scored on their fourth possession of the first quarter.

Quarterback Aley Demarest and wide receiver Chris Murphy hooked-up fo
a 24-yard touchdown highlighted by a sensational diving catch by Murphy. Th
Hoyas jumped to a 7-0 lead. -.

g The Hoyas scored again early in the second. Facing a third and 15 at their owrt
42, Demarest found Dorian Bell racing down the right sideline. A perfectly‘

thrown pass resulted in another six for the Hoyas. The extra point made it 14-0

Georgetown. _.

“They came up with clutch plays," Fallon said. “Number seven[Murphy]
made a phenomenal catch, and the other one was just a well-thrown football.
Can’t place much fault with the defenders.” .

W&L responded late in the half with a 13-play drive for a touchdown.

With 6:40 remaining, the Generals started at their own 35. On the first play;
Tommy Mason picked up 20 yards on a sweep. Geren Steiner hit James Urban
for 16 on the third play. After a penalty moved the Generals back, Steiner found‘

Photo by Jameso Lnardi, The R/ng-tum Phi
William Propst leaves a potential tackler hangin' after making one Of his five catches against the Hoyas on Saturday. The five catches
gave Propst 48 receptions on the year, enough for the ODAC receptions title. It’s the second straight year he has claimed the prize, the

first General ever to do so.

Hoops excited about season

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Complacency hasn’t been a problem
with the Generals as they prepare for the
1992-93 basketball season.

“Practices have been very competitive,
even feisty,” said head coach Verne
Canfield. “This can translate into intensity
and competitiveness in games.”

Eight players, including three starters,
return from last year’s squad, which fin-
ished a disappointing 7-18 and failed to
qualify for the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

Canfreld expects to rotate ten players
who will see quality minutes, but has not
yet decided who will start.

The Generals are loaded with talented
guards. Senior captain Bryan Brading and
top-scorer Bryan Watkins highlight the
four returning guards and two new fresh-
men in the back court.

Brading started 23 games atpoint guard
last season, scoring nearly seven points
per game.

Brading led the Generals in three-point
shooting (42 percent) and free throw shoot-
ing (80 percent), so Canfreld looks for him
to step up his scoring.

“Bryan is not looking to score as much
as I want him to,” said Canfield. “He’s
playing superb defense, but he needs to

 

shoot more. We‘re looking for a few more
points out of him this year.”

Watkins has never been shy about shoot-
ing. As a junior, Watkins lead the team in
scoring (14.4 ppg),
three—pointers (a
new school record-
63), assists (89) and
steals (35).

As the Generals’
offensive creator
and weapon last
year, Watkins took
120 shots more than
any other player,
making only 37.5 percent of them. As the
offense matures, however, defenses won ’t be
able to focus on Watkins and his shooting
should improve.

“He’s one of the better players in the
ODAC,” Canfield said. “Bryan has excellent
talent and is tough to stop when he has his
game together. We will be looking to him for
a scoring punch.”

John Rogers, last year’s top scoring fresh-
man (7.0 ppg), should provide an offensive
spark for the Generals. But now he must raise
the other aspects of his game.

“John is an excellent three-point shooter,
but he needs to work on ball movement and
driving [to the basket],” said Canfield. “He
has the tools to be a very fine defensive
player. When he’s on, he plays lots.”

Brading

The question mark for the Generals
offense will be inside the paint. The Gen-
erals shot nearly 200 fewer free throws
than their opponents last season as W&L
relied on its streaky outside shooting. The
Generals won’t abandon the perimeter
game, but Canfield has stressed looking to
the low post first this season.

“You win or lose in the paint,” he said.
“When you go inside, good things happen.
We've worked on reversing the ball and
going inside.”

When the Generals look inside, they’re
sure to find junior Robert Miggins. The 6-
5 forward is the top returning post player
(7.1 ppg, 6.1 rpg).

“People are going to see this year that
Robert is a very good player at both ends of
the floor,” said Canfield.

The Thanksgiving tournament in San
Antonio highlights the Generals’ sched-
ule.

They open up at home on Dec. 3 hosting
defending ODAC champion Harnpden-
Sydney.

Canﬁeld enjoys the challenges posed
by this team and its potential for success.

“We’re in the rightplace[at this point],”
he says.

“It remains to be seen how they handle
the close game. It's there if the kids will let
it happen. We have to re—acquaint our-
selves with winning.”

1 D

      
    
  
 

—_._

 Fashions For “The Student Body. ”\
50°/o-80°/o Off
Every Day

OUTLETS

30 South Main Street Downtown Lexington
K Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 463-9730 J

0 You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Visa® and MasterCard@
credit cards.."in your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VlSA@ and MmtcrCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for-— lD—BOOKS——DEPARTMENT
ST 0RES—TUlTlON—ENTERTA1 NM ENT-
EMERGENCY CASH-—TlCKE'IS-RESTAURANTS-
HOTELS—MOTELS—C-AS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING!

  

 

Having the goblins and goulies over?
Let us custom design Halloween Invitations!
ALSO Résumés, cover letters and quick Copies.

33 PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM ma POST omcu

No credit
No security deposit!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so
MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

with all yo
Style Scrambled Eggs,

We are open Everyday 24 hours
and Dinner 24 hours a day. Every thing is Homemade. Since you can’t be home, let us do your

f day. We offer prompt and Fast Service.

 

r
1221111-I-"X111

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLANTAiION.FL 3331

Swimteams make '.

0 See FINALE, page 5

Q

waves at first dual meet E

By SEAN O’RoURKE
Phi Sports Editor

Doug Brown has left the building.‘

Men’s swimming coach Page Remillard will
probably cringe at the thought. But nonetheless,
it’s a fact the men’s swimming team must now
deal with.

Brown graduated from W&L in June as one of
its best swimmers ever. He left a major hole to fill,
not only in terms of in-the-pool results, but also in
out-of-the-pool leadership.

Remillard knows what he lost, but thinks he
has a team that can overcome that.

“The leadership this year will come from the
seniors,” Remillard said. “We have a young team,
but they’re a mature group, though. I think we’ll
benefit from their maturity.”

When Remillard says young, he’s not kidding.

Fifteen of the 19 swimmers are either freshmen
or sophomores. However, many of the sopho-
mores were used extensively last year, especially
John Rowe, an all-American in the 400-yard indi-
vidual medley.

The team ﬂexed its youthful muscle on Satur-
day as the Generals demolished Centre 108-71.

W&L won every race, with freshman Craig
Sears leading the way with two wins in the 200-
yard IM and backstroke.

Remillard sees the key to this year’s team is its

111111“ F

ability to win and have fun at the same time; ,
“We’re going to work our tails off, but I want
the kids to have doing it because its tough to be!
unhappy and win,” Remillard said. ,

While Remillard worries about the youth of
his team, women’s head coach Kiki Jacobs must‘
worry if she’ll have enough swimmers to field a’
team. 0
Just like last year, Jacobs has the difficult task-
of entering every meet at an extreme disadvan-
tage in terms of personnel. Jacobs only has 11'
girls on this year’s team. r

Unlike the men’s team, however, Jacobs has
her best swimmer returning for her final season.‘
Senior—Claire Dudley enters her final year ‘ith,
four individual records and two team records to
her credit. She will anchor the relay races and the’~
breaststroke events.

Jacobs also has a star freshman to base some
hopes on. Rebekah Prince arrives with some
pretty impressive high school credentials.

Also returning for Jacobs are sophonﬁire‘
standouts Brani Henderson and Susan Fis er
Both were ODAC champions in events last year.

The 1992-93 season got off to a good start, as
the Generals disposed of Centre, 94-71. In the,
meet, Prince set a school record in the 200-yard
backstroke, finishing the race in 2: 16.61.

Prince won two other races, while Dugley_
added three wins. Fisher and freshman Chrissie
Hart also contributed to the Generals’ win. t’

0OOCampus Reps WantedG0O

I .
8 HEATWAVE VACATIONS ’

 

NAME

CITY
PHONE

AAAAQAAALAAQAQAAQAAAAAAAAAAQAAAAAAAAAAAAALAALAAAAAAAAAAAQAAAAAAAAAALAAAAQQAAQA .
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

E-HI Truck Stop: Friday & Saturday Night Breakfast Buffet from

11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

ur Breakfast food. Homemade Sausage Gravy & Biscuits, Fresh Scrambled Eggs, Western " J
Home Fries, Hashbrowns & Grits, Bacon, Sausage, a Medley of Fresh Fruits,

T New at Berky’s Restaurant at LE

l\Te VVS 1-7121511

If that’s not enough, we also offer this Buffet again on Sunday Morning from o 3'

Homecooking for you, no matter what time o

 I want VISAGI MASTERCARD9 Credit

Cards. Enclosed find 85 which is 100% refundable if not
approved immediately.

 

 

SIGNATURE

NOTE Mastercnrd is I registered trademark d Mnterthrd lntematiornl. Inc
visa is a registered traderrnrk ofVlSA USA. Inc and VISA lnbnntional
Servioa Assucldion.

I’
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I ADDRESS
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
'.

STATE _. ZIP
S.S.”

100°/0 GUARANTEED!

French Toast, and Much More!

8 a.m. to 2 p.m.

a day with a New & Improved Menu. Breakfast 24 hours a day. Lunch

AAAAAAQALAAAAAAQAQQAQALQAQAAAAAAAAAAAAAQAQAQQ
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

 

L111 6 tin

SPRING BREAK 1993 y-
The best rates & the biggest Q
commissions. For more Information, "
Call 800-395-WAVE

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: YOU i
: qould own

. , l
I This space,
, .
I
.'

I

CaII463-8581.’ ,

f
0
?
J

 

 

 

 

.,ix- 4

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON‘ & IIEE UNIVERSFIY

 
   

l EXINGTON. VA. 24450

DEC 4 I992

 

t

fmmmmmmmmannammmmmmmmmmmmmnmmmmmmmmmmmmmnmmmmmm

VOLUME 92, NO. 12

aiound campus Tuesday.

Econ prof
* Griffith
“dies at 77

‘ From the W&L News Office

. ‘ Funeral services were held
Monday for former W&L eco-
4 rﬁmics professor E. Claybrook
Griffith. Grifﬁth died Nov. 21 in
Lexington. He was 77 years old.
I Griffith came to W&L in 1946
and taught until 1980, specializ-
‘ ing in comparative economic sys-
, terns, labor’ problems and labor
tlganizations.
* Grifﬁth was a graduate of
Hampden-Sydney College. He
received anM.A. and Ph.D. from
'1 the University of Virginia.
Griffith authored many ar-
ticles and monographs and as-
, sited in the arbitration of several
labor disputes.
“ Grifﬁth was a member of the
., Lexington City School Board
. from 1960 to 1971, serving as
I chairman from 1968 to 197l.He
i was also a member of the Lex-
i§gton Chamber of Commerce.
Grifﬁth is survived by his
wife, Mary Owen Hill Griffith of
Lexington; a son, Richard Lee
. Griffith III of Allendale, N.J.; a
‘ daughter, MarthaGrifﬁth Kelley
of Annandale, Va.; and six
4 ﬁanchildren.
_ Memorials may be made to
i the R.E. Lee Memorial Episco-
, pal Church in Lexington or to the
, Ronald McDonald House in
‘ Roanoke.

v Student

By JUSTIN MCNAULI.
Phi Staff Writer

' It may not look like Christ-
mas yet, but the giving spirit has
already touched much of the
WashingtonandLeecommunity.

Children's Christmas parties,
Rroject Angel Tree and a large
Christmas basket program high-
l9ght the next week for fratemi—
ties and sororities.

Associate Dean of Students
Leroy “Buddy” Atkins empha-

V‘.-.

WELCOME TO THE FUTURE

‘ Plans For New Science Center
l‘; Move Forward, But Slowly —
See Architect Drawings Inside

In the Buff
Berkeley Student

(3

Bares All

To Make a Statement

WASHINGTON AND LEE‘ UNIVERSITY

nt’ film crew scouts W&L

Stude

  

Photo by Richard Peltz, ‘The Ring-tum Phi
W&L Communications Director Brian Shaw (far right) escorts (I to r) “The

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Hofschneider will star in the ﬁlm,
‘ch will also include American

'-‘—"’—‘3~fact'r‘es\s‘Robin Givens. Hofschneider

~.-_-/staﬁed in the German movie “Europa,

A team of movie producers scouted
W&L Tuesday as a possible location
for the ﬁlm version of The Foreign
Student.

“This is the most preliminary of
preliminary steps,” W&L Communi-
cations Director Brian Shaw said. “It
was an exploratory visit.”

The movie’s executive producer
and director, along with Virginia Film
Office representatives, toured the carn-
pus and Lexington and took pictures.

The Foreign Student is an autobio-
graphical novel by Phillippe Labro
about his experiences as an exchange
student at Washington and Lee in the

Europa.”

The ﬁlm will be directed by Eva
Sereny, Shaw ‘said.

Lombardo, who works for
Cathargo Films in Paris, said the ﬁlm
will be a European production but
will be in English.

Lombardo said he would like to
shoot as much of the film as possible
at W&L.

Ifthe company selects W&L, ﬁlm-
ing will occur in March and April, he
said.

“We would like to do as much as
possible here,” Lombardo said. “We
could do a lot.’’ A

not automatically approve plans to
shoot the ﬁlm here.

“A whole lot more infomiationhas
to be gathered before we can evaluate
this possibility,” Shaw said. “The uni-
versity always has the right to accept
or reject such an offer.”

Shaw said the university had little
notice that the scouting crew was com-
m .
“We had gotten word about a week
and a half ago that W&L was being
considered as a location,” Shaw said.
“Then they sent us a fax Monday
saying they were coming. That’s just
the way these people work.”

Shaw said the producers should
decide whether they want to shoot at
W&L in about amonth, after the script
is finalized and a production director

0112 ‘ﬂing-tum iﬂlti  

HHEIIHHHHHHMHHHHUHHHMHHMHHHHEHH

DECEMBER 3, 1992

Jennings, ’56, had lunch with the film
representatives. Jennings said they
asked him about what the campus and
city were like in the 19505.

“We talked about the relations be-
tween faculty and students, about fra-
ternity life and about what the college
and town were like physically,”
Jennings said. “They were concemed
about whether things look the same
now as they did back then.”

Jennings said he got the impres-
sion that the group would prefer to
film at W&L rather than at another
campus.

“They seemed to be struck by the
beauty of the place,” Jennings said.

Though they might be at W&L in
March, Lombardo said there would
be no plans to ﬁlm at Fancy Dress, an

 

Foreign Student” Executive Producer Mark Lombardo, Director Eva
Sereny and Virginia Film Office Representative Catherine Councill, '89,

1950s.
Executive
Lombardo said German actor Marco

Shaw stressed that W&L is only
one of several locations being con-
sidered and that the university would

Producer Mark

Spinning into the top 10

Publicity photo

The Spin Doctors (l to r), singer Christopher Barron, drummer Aaron Comess, guitarist Eric Schenkman and
bassist Mark White, will bring their “funky, reggae-inflected pop" to the Pavilion Friday night. The band's album,
“Pocketful of Kryptonite," is expected to break into the top-10 album list next week.

groups give gift of holiday spirit

sizes the importance of main-.
taining community involvement
at Tuesday’s Interfraternity
Council meeting.

“It’s really critical to not let
programs that have done so much
for the community and your repu-
tations fall by the wayside,”
Atkins said.

Atkins reminded the IFC of
its strong role in the Rockbridge
Christmas basket program. The
program collects food, toys and
money from community organi-
zations and distributes them to

needy families.

“I can remember when no one
outside W&L had respect for fra-
ternities,” Atkins said. He cred-
its the improved relations to “a
room full of food, toys and checks
that was being donated to the
community.” ,

Not to be outdone, W&L’s
sororities also joined community
holiday programs.

Chi Omega and Kappa Alpha
Theta members donated toys and
clothing to needy children
through Project Angel Tree.

“We get a list of 180 kids with
their names, age, and clothes size
then buy them presents,” said
senior Liz Randol, Theta com-
munity service chainnan.

Kappa Kappa Gamma will
bring Santa Claus to the Co-op
on Wednesday for holiday pic-
tures. For a donation to needy
neighbors, students and children
can sit with Santa for a photo
opportunity.

While several other fratemi-

ties host faculty cocktail parties,

the brothers of Pi Kappa Phi will

sing carols, eat cookies and give
gifts to a throng of Lexington
children. Junior Pi Phi Doug
Matia expects up to 80 kids from
kindergarten through ﬁfth grade
to fill the house tomorrow.

The Phi Delta Theta House
Corporation, playing grinches
this year, canceled the liveliest
children’s Christmas party on
campus. Santa, Mrs. Claus and
nearly 40 children from
Lexington’s Diamond Hill area
won’t be stopping by for gifts
and good times.

  Fte:

  

9.:-«aw

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Distinguished Civil War historian
and author Shelby Foote gave a rare
speech to a capacity crowd in Lee Chapel
Tuesday night.

Foote revealed some of the theories
behind his unique literary style’ that
made his three—volume series on the
Civil War famous.

“A fact becomes truth only when
you love it,” Foote said. “I love the
Civil War. It is a part of me.”

Foote criticized most modern histo-
rians as being dry as dust. He said many
historians lack the imagination to add
the lifetotheirworksnecessaryto make
them entertaining as well as informa-
tlve.

Foote

Foote said writers should turn their
prose into art by adding emotion to their

works in the same manner as painters
and musicians.

Good historians should make their
works into good literature, he said.

After his speech, Foote answered
questions for more than one hour on
topics from modern literature to the
Civil War, the area in which he is most
famous.

Often referring to the Confederacy
as “we,” the Greenville, Miss., native
said he believes the most important
campaigns of the Civil War were along
the Mississippi River.

Foote said many people in Virginia
believe the most important battles of
the war were fought between Rich-
mond and Washington and thatall other
battles were insignificant. Foote said
he believes the opposite is true.

“Of all the people in the nation who
know the least about the Civil War,
Virginians are the worst,’,’ Foote said,

History needs imagination, emotion

drawing laughter from the audience.

Foote said he avoids naming favor-
ite or most important men or events
from the Civil War. But he said he
believes the war revealed two military
geniuses, U.S. President Abraham Lin-
coln and Confederate General Nathan
Bedford Forrest.

“Lincoln was the only one on the
Union side who had precise ideas on
what the war meant and how it should
be fought,” Foote said.

Forrest, he said, was a natural sol-
dier who could read the mind of his
opponents with deadly accuracy.

Foote spent three days at Washing-
ton and Lee lecturing and speaking to
history classes before he left today.

'I'heRobertL.Telford Distinguished
Lecturer Series sponsored Foote’svisit.
Other Telford lecturers have included
Nobel Peace Prize-winner Oscar Arias
andformei '.'.S.Presirlt' :2 limmy Carter.

is chosen and visits possible loca- event that appears in the book.
tions. “There’s nothing like that in the
Journalism Professor John script,” Lombardo said.

IFC approves
alcohol mentors

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

The IFC Tuesday approved a
program to give each fraternity
an in-house alcohol abuse expert,
but training might not start until
spring.

After houses elect new ofﬁc-
ers for spring term, each frater-
nity vice president will attend an
initial ﬁve-hour training session
in the Student Alcohol Mentor
(SAM) program, Interfratemity
Council President Sam Rock said.

University Psychologist
James Worth said he hopes the
program will train a member of
each fraternity and sorority to be
a resource on drug and alcohol
abuse issues. The SAM program
encourages responsible drinking
and decision making.

Worth» spoke to a November
IFC meeting advocating the pro-
gram, which has been imple-
mented by all four sororities.

“If this program would work,
the Hill doesn’t have to put heat
on you,” Worth said. “It will be a
wayto take responsibilty foryour-
selves.”

Worth said the program be-
gan in the University of Virginia
athletic department’s program
and it has expanded to nearly all
of UVa’s 29 fratemities.

The W&L athletic department
joined the program this fall and
Worth said he hopes to begin
training fraternity and sorority
officers as soon as possible.

UVa students, W&L Health
Educator Jan Kaufman and mem-
bers of the athletic department
SAMprogram will probably help
with the first training session,
Worth said.

Worth said he hoped to begin
the program after sorority elec-
tions in January.

He must now determine
whether to start the women’ s pro-
gram in the winter, or wait and
train both groups after fratemi-
ties elect officers at the end of
winter term, he said.

Worth promised that the pro-
gram will be tailored to W&L’s
tradition of student programs
without interference by the ad-
ministration.

“We hope SAMs will be a
valuable resource that will main-
tain itself through its successes,”
Worth said.

Sigma Chi Kevin Batteh, ’95,
voiced support at Tuesday’s
meeting for the way the program
allows fratemities to work out
their own problems.

“Part of brotherhood is to
watch out for one another,” he
said, “and to handle things inter-
nally.”

     

    

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

The Sbar Side returns

ex

Wednesday.

John Sbar, ’91 , greets senior Benjamin Plummer while
signing copies of his humorous account of W&L life,
The Undergraduate Almanac, in the bookstore

Cadet dies in crash

From Staff Reports

A VMI cadet and a UVa. stu-
dent died in an auto accident last
week moments after leaving
Lexington for the Thanksgiving
break.

Third-year cadet James
Samuel Gillespie III was driv-
ing on U.S. 1 1 one mile south of
Lexington on the morning of
Nov. 26 when he veered into the
path of a cement truck in the
opposing lane.

Gillespie and University of
Virginia junior Heather Altizer,
who was riding in the car, died

at the scene of the accident.

The two students, both 20 and
both ofPounding Mill, Va., were
driving home for Thanksgiving
in Gillespie’s 1980 Pontiac when
the accident occured.

The News Gazette reported
Dec. 2 that a witness driving be-
hind Gillespie said his car ap-
peared to nuddenly veer into the
path of the truck.

Gillespie was a defensive end
on the VMI football team and a
civil engineering major.

A memorial service will be
held Friday at noon in Jackson
Memorial Hall at VMI.

 

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 iliing-him lﬂlii

Founded September 18,, 1897

Mail call?

Neither rain nor snow, nor dark of night will keep the postman from
making his rounds.

Except in Lexington.

Missed issues in magazine subscriptions, letters that take a week to
come from Baltimore, followed by ones that arrive in three days from"
Denver, and letters mailed that never see their destinations: these are the
problems that plague our small-town branch of the U.S. Post Office.

Yet when we lick the back of our stamps, they taste the same as they
do in Charlottesville, Washington and Los Angeles. And they cost as
much.

Phi subscription delivery, which might be described as spotty at best,
drew our attention to the post office scene. After countless complaints of
irregular out-of-town receipt of the Phi, we thoroughly checked our
operation. But the Phis are dropped off with the I.ex post office on a
regular, weekly schedule.

From there, we just don’t know what happens to them.

And neither, it seems, does the post office. We’ve called post office
officials high and low, and everyone denies fault.

If you are a subscriber, and by some miracle you read this paper,
please let us know, speciﬁcally, of any problems in your delivery cycle.
Also, please contact Lexington Postmaster Larry Creamer at 703-463-
2822, Mrs. Beard at the Charlottesville post ofﬁce at 804-978-7610, and
your local post office, so they know we’re not making this up.

But call them. Don’t risk 29 cents on letters.

Stocking stuffers

The season of giving is upon us, and my how we have been giving.
Thanks to the generosity of Washington and Lee students and adminis-
trators, the City of Lexington has a shiny, new fire truck to roll down the
newly paved streets decked out with properly secular holiday wreaths.

Alas, in this apparent sea of prosperity, we poor, starving students
can’t afford presents for everyone on our list. But in the spirit of the
season, we will at least present our annual list of what we would like
everyone to have. Or maybe what they really want. Or maybe what they
really need. Or maybe what they really deserve.

We hope they accept our “gifts” with a jolly ho-ho. Or whatever the
Hanukkah bunny says.

Our friends on the Hill:

President Wilson: a free, ﬂuffy newsletter to replace the Phi

Mrs. Watson: an $8 million china cabinet

Dean Howison: a portable heater for the auxiliary office

Dean Schroer-Lamont: a back rub

Dean Buddy: scales of justice... or a puddle

Brian Shaw: a real secret

the charming ladies in the Registrar’s Office: pleasant personali-
ties

Carol CalkiI_|S_:'LSl'lbmlS‘SlOl'l

Professor Hodges: astocking full of coal to power him to the Co-op 8

Melissa Cox: tenure
the j-profs: everything Melissa knows
Professor Rush: more E-mail... or a new last name
Our friends in MetroLex:
R.D. Clark: a transfer
Mayor Buddy: caller ID... and more (taxable) land for Lex
the Lex Post Office: a clue
“Cadet Benjamin”: ooooh, we’re too scared to give you anything
Our lost but not(?) forgotten editor:
Tom Eisenhauer: a B.A. ...and no more Clinton scandals
Our friends in the EC:
Josh MacFarland: lessons on how to really kiss a Homecoming
queen
Jimmy Kull: a homeless person to take in, to work off your car tax
Ashby Hackney and Susan Moseley: a brain each, so they don’t
have to share anymore

Quote of the Week

You mean like, ‘do cheat, don't get caught’?
—— Junior EC Rep. Ashby Hackney, presumably joking, about the
EC’s do’s and don’ts for freshmen taking exams

Seven weeks is not 49 days.
—— Senior EC Rep. Susan Moseley, checking the validity of a
suggestion that students park their cars at Kmart to avoid the car tax ‘

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, December 3, 1992

Mortality

MY VIEW
By Rick J. Peltz, ’93

It’s always hardtoacceptthatsome-
one has died.

In M.’s casein particular. He was
37, married, with a one-year-old child.
He had plans, and he was going places.
Just where I might be one day. Not
expecting to die.

It’s hard to accept that the living
intelligence that sat in our living room,
with which I carried on a conversation
on more than one occasion, is gone,
extinguished. M. lived, just like I live.
He had memories. He had favorite
things. He liked to laugh and to have
fun. He knew the wet, juicy taste of an
apple when your teeth crunch into it.
He liked to watch television. On the
night he died, he fell asleep watching
television.

And T. She woke up, and her hus-
band didn't.

That night he took off his clothes
and put on his bed clothes. He climbed
under the sheets and felt the smooth-
ness of cotton on bare feet. He propped
up his pillow to watch TV. He probably

forces a student to forget

thought about what he would do the
next day. He probably held T.’s hand
awhile. He probably thought of his
daughter with whom he had played that
night. He closed his eyes, and his mind
drifted off to sleep, to dream, to heal,
just as it did every night, just as I do
every night.

And something happened. Who
knows if his sleeping brain even had a
moment to be alarmed, if his subcon-
scious mind reacted, maybe with vio-
lent dream images, or maybe by jerk-
ing a hand and an arm, demanding
some physical response from the body,
maybe not understanding exactly what
was happening. And then oblivion.

M. grew up. He remembered his
parents. He remembered school. He
made friends. He loved people. He
probably hated some people. He made
jokes. He argued about politics. He
remembered everything withthe amaz-
ing efficiency of the human brain. And
then it was all gone.

T. and everyone will corrifort them-
selves by thinking of the immortal soul,
even if there is no such thing, even if
they wouldn’t otherwise believe in it.
They’lltalkaboutthelife M.had, rather

LETTERS

than the life he didn’t, despite the fact
that all he was is gone now. They’l1 talk
about what he contributed to their lives,
even though they will eventually die
too.

M. didn’tbuildabuilding.He didn’t
write a book. We comfort ourselves by
saying that what he gave to us and to
the world will endure, his spirit, but a
hundred years from now, no one will
remember him. Even his descendants,
his daughter’s cliildren’s children, will
know nothing more about him then
some very old, two-dirnensional pho-
tographs of somebody who eerily re-
sembles uncle so-and-so. Or maybe
not.

All that he was is gone. His chance
to guide humanity is gone. Mine likely
will be one day too. So it will probably
be for everyone I love. There isn't
enough immortality to go around.

Howcanwe possibly deal with that?
How can we deal with that when it’s
thrust in our faces like this? How can
we maintain our will to live?

I guess we forget it. Everyone thinks
about it now. But what am I going to do
when I’m done writing this? I'm going
to go take notes for a history paper,

putting M. and T. out of my mind. And
nextweek, our family will have Thanks-
giving, and we’ll laugh and talk and
divert one another’ s thoughts from Aunt
Renee and M. We'll go so far as to help
each other forget. Even T. will at some
point decide to “go on” with her life,
which is just a euphemism for deliber-
ately forgetting. She’ll backslide some-
times, but she’ll eventually “accept”
what happened and “go on.”

My great grandmother advocates
the same strategy with a more positive
tone. She says we should seize the day.
It’ s anoble sentiment, one I value, to an
extent. Often not to a sufficient extent,

but I try. And at times like this I try all 9

the more, because tragedy reminds me
of it. But isn't this strategy just another
euphemism for deliberatelyforgetting?
Doesn't it essentially say, “Live now,
because the only alternative is to die,
which you’ll have to do one day any-

way”? Isn’t “seize the day” appealing O

for the same reason as a Ziggy cartoon
that encourages us to procrastinate?

I suppose forgetting is all we can
do. I’m going to forget about you, M.
I’m going to put you out of my mind.
Please forgive me.

Q

  cadet?‘ fireériback atiphiii editorial

To the Editor:

haps the paper should take a dose of its own medicine

'0
would have to argue with anyone who claimed that all

@112 iliirtg-tum iﬂltt

Executive Editors" . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitriey Swift

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

In the Nov. 5 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, an
editorial was published which was a direct attack on
the VMI Corps of Cadets and the Commandant,
Colonel Mike Bissell.

The editorial began by describing cadets in the
following manner. “Like wives in the Bible, they
seem to be most active before dawn. Fists clenched,
shoulders back, staggering with bloodshot eyes and
smelling of vomit and stale beer, roving bands of
them come to invade late-night Lexington gather-
ings.” The paper further declares that “The cadets
will make adequate officers, but will they also be
gentlemen?”

The article continues by offering descriptions of
recent cadet actions uptown, including several recent
fights. The article was written in a very slanted
maruier, and it does not include adequate explana-
tions of the incidents. Included is the following
description of Col. Bissell. “Bissel’s defense of his
students goes beyond mere blind faith and enters the
realm of blatant stupidity. Bissel’s apparent ‘us against
them’ mentality, which prevents him from punishing
his beloved cadets, only allows them to discard
responsibility for their actions.”

Iwouldliketobegin my response to this commen-
tary by expressing my disappointrnent in The Ring-
tiim Phi for printing this article. Had the piece been
written in a humorous tone, I would understand
picking on cadets, but in a serious article, there is no
excuse for this type of narne-calling and generaliza-
tion.

Secondly, I am disappointed that such a stereo-
type would be applied in a serious journalistic news-
paper. If the Ring-tum Phi had printed stereotypes
about minorities, homosexuals, or any group other
than cadets, I’m sure they could expect quite a
reaction. If The Ring-tum Phi wants to discourage
“W&L students from provoking conﬂict,” then per-

and refrain from uncomplimentary blanket remarks
about cadets.

Personally, I can vouch for the fact that not every
W&L student is an example of good citizenship, or
even pleasant company for that matter. I know a
couple of W&L students who I have long considered
to be the most pompous, self-important, horses’
southsides I have ever met. On the other hand, I have
had the opportunity to meet some really nice indi-
viduals who were friendly and congenial.

Let me use as examples a few of my experiences
in the past year. Last spring, I was invited, along with
several other cadets, to a W&L fraternity party. I had
a great time, met a lot of affable W&L students, and
enjoyed a good band. I was very impressed by the
fraternity and the brothers, and I can say without
reservation that every single one was friendly and
pleasant.

Not that I'm passing any judgment, butl also saw
some W&L students who were completely drunk,
and who were all too eager to relieve themselves
outside and vomit wherever the urge struck them.
That weekend, one of the brothers got arrested two
nights in a row on the same street by the same officer
for being drunk in public. Ironically, this individual
was also one of the students that I enjoyed meeting
and hoped to rim into again some time.

I also had to go to court in Lexington this fall
where I was convicted of speeding. Although I was
the only cadet in the courtroom, there were more
W&L students present than I can count on both
hands. The first one was convicted of public drunk-
enness, drunk driving, and possession of marijuana.
The last one was also convicted of drunk driving.

The point by now should be obvious. First, W&L
students are not a ﬂock of innocent little lambs.
Second, I have not based my opinions of W&L
students on the actions of a few miscreants, and

W&L students were pot smoking, drunk-driving
winos.

As for the accusation that anything prevents Col.
Bissel from “punishing his beloved cadets,” this is
simply not true. I can assure The Ring-tum Phi that

Col. Bissel has no qualms whatsoever about leveling .
serious and harsh punishments on cadets who rim ‘

afoul of the rules either on post or in Lexington. As an
example, I asked the deputy commandant what pen-
alty a cadet would get if he was seen leaving a frat
house after 1 1 p.m. on a weeknight in civilian clothes
while he was not on official leave. Even if the cadet
had a verbal invitation and there was no trouble
whatsoever involved, the cadet would get 20 demer-
its, four months of post confinement, and 80 penalty
tours.

As any cadet can attest, neither 16 weekends spent
at VMI nor 80 hours of marching are anyone’s idea of
a picnic. A cadet who starts a fight can be placed on
report for “conduct unbecoming a cadet," which,
depending on the offense, carries penalties up to
disrriissal. The only reason a cadet might not be
penalized by the Institute is if he has had charges
pressed by the police for the same incident. In this
way, the cadet is not penalized twice for the same
offense.

One point that The Ring-tum Phi failed to address ‘

(or admit) is the fact that most if not all of these fights
seem to have been started by W&L students. (The
researched details of these incidents are outlined on
the front page of the Oct. 13 issue of The VMI Cadet.)
While I won’t defend cadets who start fights at
fraternity houses, I will certainly stand behind those

who defend themselves, and I think the rest of the .

VMI community will agree.

Charles V. Hardenbergh
Editorial Editor, The VMI Cadet

Last year ’s open honor trial raises question

To the Editor:
This letter comes in response to The
Ring-tum Phi editorial “Leave honor
to the students.” I would like to first of
all clarify what went on at the Board of
Trustees meeting three weeks ago in
Atlanta. Following procedure, I gave
an update on the Honor System with
regard to our caseload and the various
honor orientations. I did mention the
fact that there was an Open Hearing
last May. the first in two years. Let me
now say for the record that there was
absolutely no discussion about the spe-
cities of the case nor any attempt to
reinstate the dismissed student, period.
However, following the Open Hear-
inglast May there was some discussion
among some alumni of the University,
as there always is after one of these,
about the Honor System. As a result, a
few letters were written, including one
from the father of the dismissed stu-
dent, an alumnus, to specific members
of the Board, citing what they thought

were problems with the system.

So, prior to the Board meeting, the
Rector of the University, A. Stevens
Miles, wrote me a letter acknowledg-

ing that he had received these letters,
one of which called for a review of the
Honor System by a committee of the
Board of Trustees. His responseto that
idea was as follows:

“In view of the fact that the by-laws
of the university clearly state that re-
sponsibility for the Honor System re-
sides with the students, I believe that it
would be more appropriate for the Ex-
ecutive Committee to conduct the re-
view and decide what changes, if any,
should be made. You may feel free to
call on me if you would like to have any
input from the Board, but the responsi-
bility is yours.”

To me that is a supreme affirmation
of the Board’s commitment to student
control of the Honor System. This feel-
ing was reiterated to me at the Board
meeting in Atlanta. There was no dis-
cussion of the points brought up in any
of the letters, it was simply left up to me
what, if anything, the Executive Com-
mittee should do with them. The min-
utes of the Board meeting and anyone
in attendance will attest to the afore-
mentioned facts.

Had the Phi done any research into

this matter, i.e. talk to those who were
at the meeting, or believed what I had
told them, the facts that I outlined above,
this editorial would never have been
written. It is my opinion that the Phi
owes an apology to the Board of Trust-
ees to whom, because of their commit-
ment to the Honor System, student
autonomy, and the University as a
whole, we are deeply indebted.

Sincerely,
Josh MacFar1and, ’93
President of the Student EC

To the Editor:

In reference to the editorial [Nov.
12] “Leave Honor to the Students”, 1
would simply like to reiterate a few
points. First I want to commend. The
Phi for keeping such a vigilant watch
on a system which seems to be suffer-
ing from the illness ofpolitics. It is only
through awareness that the students of
this school can actively protect a tradi-
tion which has been revered for more
than a century.

Specificallywithregardto lastyear’s

honor trial, it is important to address
certain concerns. A student was
charged, tried and found guilty, not by
some elite, but by a jury of peers.
Representative students of this school
concluded that this student was guilty,
both in closed and open forums. The
issue is no longer one of guilt or inno-
cence. The issue now is the future, or
rather the present of the Honor Code.
To even consider allowing an openly
and judiciously convicted student to
return to W&L is an outrage. It is

tantamount to saying that money and §

influence (and perhaps a relative on the
Board of Trustees) give one license to
extend the boundaries of the Honor
Code. For a community which so cher-
ishes the memory of Lee, and the stan-
dards of honorable conduct, this as-

v

N

L

*.

as: may ‘:1? <1’ vs. \..a».- ex»-v«-' 

at

V I‘-£4: ﬁi Mir. y .~:¢-.o us‘, ..

9':

<>—- ‘‘''...«§ ». ,-,ga_ vi.‘ L‘ .- .,s,.. \a ,4; -1;

(‘v

: .—..\a-..@..:...-'..  3.... __

sault on Washington and Lee would be 0 .

disastrous. Ii: effects on the character
of W&L, and on its reputation would
be irreparable.

What was reported last week is con-
fusing. However, amidst the confu-
sion, there is truth. EC President Josh

C] See HONOR, page 3 ’

 

/’

"- e Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1992

1

TI! Fgom HONOR, page 2
‘I

' MacFarland deserves our gratitude

I r shielding the Honor System in the
ace of administrative and alurrmi op-
4.» . sition. Likewise, those attempting
o circumvent the Honor System should
be severely chastised, and reminded
thams the “leaders” of the school, it is
they who should be setting the fine
examples. It would be sad to admit that
the school ’s students are morally supe-
rior to certain members of alumni, the
administration and the Board of Trust-

eeslbnor is this University’s most dis-
nctive characteristic. Boards and ad-
inistrations have come and gone;
«onor has remained. It is rare in today's
ociety that one can find a community
fksuch high standards. I implore ev-
ryone to remember this fact, and to act
igqously to insure that nothing will
arthis precious place, which somany

-. ve called home.

. incerely, A
ynthia J. Kowalyk, ’93

LETTERS

Student chides humor columnist

To the Editor:

I’m writing in reaction to Tom Hespos’ article, which the
editors of the Phi decided to include in their November 19
issue. First, on a general note, Tom, I know that you're
“Spos" to be funny, but then again the editors of this illustri-
ous newspaper are “Spos” to choose a furmy person to write
these articles, so I guess it's not entirely your fault that you've
been encouraged to make a fool of yourself in print once

every two weeks.

Your inability to write anything humorous, however, was
never enough reason for me to write to the Phi. After all, this
year we’ve become used to humor columnists failing rniser-

ably.

I was finally moved to write because your colunm last
week took tastelessness to a new level of which you were (I
hope) completely unaware when you wrote the ﬁlth. So let

me till you in.

Four years ago, a Washington and Lee student, Ashley
Scarborough, was killed by another student who was driving
drunk. One of the pieces of evidence in the conviction of
Blake Comer involved a “few front-end paint chips” which
were found embedded in Ashley's body.

Stan to get the picture? Evidently, your “Uncle Vito”
never heard of the incident, but I would think that at some

point you had. Yet you decided to write your “humor”

in order.

colunm anyway, suggesting that we should all begin to rim
over VMI cadets with our cars.

Advocating “vehicular homicide” to W&L students is
about as funny as telling jokes about ovens to survivors of
the Holocaust. For their sake, I hope Ashley's parents do
not continue to subscribe to the Phi, but whether they do or
not, I hope you realize that some sort of printed apology is

Two last suggestions, Tom. First, please leave the third-
person references to the sports figures and the politicians.
Second, I’m sure the VMI cadets are really scared of your

Uncle Vito, so don’t worry if a few of them trap you in the

away.

Delt house (oops...sorry Tom) or in a dark alley late at night.
I'm sure if you just mention his name they’l1 back off right

To the editors of the Phi, I send my warmest congratu-

lations. I didn’t think that it was possible for your con-
sciences to ever allow you to print anything more tasteless
than “Erection Man," but you’ve outdone yourselves once
again. Nice job, guys. Keep up the good work.

(Not entirely) Sincerely,
Scott A. Smith '93

‘ AIDS project leader questions Phi coverage

_ o the Editor:

I am writing to protest the Phi ‘s lack
f coverage of what I feel is a very
mportant new organization on the

. campus, the AIDS Education

’ oj t. I have been considering writ-
ing this letter for quite some time but I
ve hesitated because I thought it
portant to wait and see if a pattern
eveloped. Unfortunately, it has.

‘ The AIDS Project was founded this

,ear in order to provide education on

rev%ntion and compassion dealing

ith this disease. We have received an
incredibly warm welcome from the
tlinilrersity as a whole, including ad-

. inistration, faculty, staff, students,

. pus groups and local citizens. It
seems the only group that is not willing
to welcome our organization is the
school’s newspaper.

i At the beginning of the year, two
different reporters wrote stories intro-
Gucing the group to the university. Both

'cles were pushed aside at least three
times, often in favor of stories about
quclhsubjects as ﬂowers on the tables at

i

To the Editor:

I wanted to write this letter in hopes of informing
stu ents about the car tax—what it means to them
and hat to do when the tax arrives around Dec. 1.

The Virginia state law basically states that resi-
dents shall register their cars and pay taxes on them
if they are garaged in the city for a majority of the

ear. (If you pay a car tax at home, however, you do

not have to pay Lexington’s tax.)

Since the students have not volunteered to regis-

ter Qieir cars with the city, the Commissioner of
evenue has been told to get the necessary iriforma-
tion any way she can. Dec. 1 many of us (and our
parents) will be receiving a bill in the mail ordering

usto pay this tax.

VMI. All the while, the editors of the
paper insisted that the articles on the
AIDS Project were bumped for more
important news stories.

Finally, in October, Amy Yarcich, a
reporter for the Phi and an active par-
ticipant in the AIDS Project, convinced
the editors thatastory about the group's
trip to the AIDS Quilt in Washington,
D.C. would be a good idea. I thought
that, at last, this pattern of ignoring our
group was over. I was wrong. Last
Tuesday [Nov. 10], the AIDS Project
hosted its first speaker, Dr. Bob Carrere,
’72. To my knowledge, the Phi did not
even bother to send a reporter to cover
the lecture despite two of the editors
being personally rerriinded as well as
receiving a copy of the press release
issued by the News Office. Instead, the
editors chose to coverone of two events
that occurred last Wednesday night
[Nov. 11]—Dr.Wilson’squestion-arid-
answer session on the mission state-
ment, which was only attended by 35
people. The AIDS Project's speaker
was attended by approximately 90

According to the law, residents cannot have their
cars legally taxedif they.-,_a_re garaged iI1_*]E.9eXi’§!g§)1}:‘
for less‘ than a majority of the year. Taking into
account the summer break and other vacations
tliroughoutthe year, studentsareinLexington roughly
seven months and three weeks.

If, while classes are in session, our cars are ga-
raged outside of Lexington for an additional seven
weeks, we cannot be taxed (because the accumulated
time would amount to less than a majority of the

year).

people. While I don’t think coverage
should necessarily be determined by
attendance, I simply do not feel that we
are being treated fairly.

This lack of coverage is unfortunate
for many reasons, but most impor-
tantly because the AIDS Project is serv-
ing such a vital role on this campus.
Our generation is the AIDS Genera-
tion. It is estimated by many experts
that we will be the first group of college
graduates who attend more funerals
than weddings. Indeed, if the Phi had
bothered to cover the lecture last Tues-
day, they would have heard that ac-
cording to the Centers forDisease Con-
trol, college age people are among the
groups at highest risk of contracting
AIDS. Others in this high-risk group
include: heterosexuals, women, and
Southerners.

Our campus must begin to meet its
responsibilities in educating and deal-
ing with this disease. Anyone who be-
lieves that just because no one has
tested HIV positive at the irifirmary,
that there are no I-IIV positive students

on this campus is a fool. Anyone who
says that if we are going to have an
AIDS Project we should have a Cancer
Project and a Heart Project is being
petty. These other diseases are not
nearly as preventable as AIDS, and
they certainly do not provoke the kind
of hatred and bigotry that AIDS often
does. The thing that has impressed me
the most about starting this group is
that something I had only dreamed of
happening has happened, the entire
community is voicing support for what
we are doing, there are no political or
religious lines being drawn, I have not
received any threatening phone calls,
and some of the most unlikely people
are approaching me on the Colomiade
and asking what they can do to help.
We at Washington and Lee should be
proud of this, and we should be able to
read about it in our school newspaper.

Sincerely yours,

Patrick McDerrnott
Coordinator

AIDS Education Project

Student advises howto beat the car tax

is ﬁghtable (and bearable), then they may mistakenly
    

If you choose to join me in fighting the tax by
garaging your car somewhere other than Lexington
for an additional seven weeks, take your bill to the
Commissioner of Revenue’s office and tell them that
your car cannot be taxed because it is not garaged in
Lexington for a majority of the year. Remember,
the bill you receive is not absolute. It assumes that
our cars are garaged in Lexington for a majority of

the year ——that assumption is notnecessarily correct.

You must inform your parents about this tax
over break because the Commissioner of Revenue
sends a copy of the bill both to your address at school
and at home. If your parents do not know that this tax

Sincerely,

James F. Kull
Junior EC rep

I - Archivist praises law correspondent, corrects error

To the Editor:
, As a member of the Law School
‘community, I applaud the inclusion of
a Law School writer on The Ring-tum
Phi staff. Such a move can only serve to
imiﬁove relations on either side of the
bridge.
As archivist of the Law School,
‘however, I must make one correction
onceming the article onthe MootCourt
ornpetition. In her otherwise ﬁne ar-
'cle, J .D. Lowry misidentified John
W.Davis as “a W&L law professor in

the 1950s." She was off by more than
half a century.

Davis graduated from the College
of Washington and Lee 100 years ago
in 1892. He took his degree from the
School of Law in 1895. He taught at the
Law School for only the following year
(1896-97).

While it is true that he is best known
nationally for arguingthe “wrong” side
of Brown vs. Board of Education, I
hope the impression was not left that
this is the reason the Moot Court com-

Interviews and Photos
By Jameson Leonardi

4
Roland Chase, ’95, Idstein, Germany
“Snow.”

petition bears his name. Davis argued
141 cases before the Supreme Court
competition (only two others—one of
them being Daniel Webster—had ar-
gued more), was solicitor general of
the United States, turned down a U.S.
Supreme Court nomination, was a presi-
dential candidate, and was Ambassa-
dor to the Court of Saint James, to hit
only some of the highlights of his long
career.

He was not, as Daniel J. Komstein
has put it, “Brandeis’s ideal Peoples’

Attorney.” He is, however, by any
measure one of the most distinguished
graduates of the Law School. It is be-
cause this “most accomplished appel-
late advocate of his era” consistently
stressed the importance of moot court
in legal education, that the John W.
Davis Moot Court Competition bears
his name.

Sincerely,
John N. Jacob
Archivist, School of Law

Film Society

The W&L Film Society is
pleased to armounce its next pre-
sentation, “Europa, Europa” (Po-
land/Gerrnany, 1991) at 8:05 pm.
on Friday, and Saturday, in the
Troubadour Cinema, at the comer
of Main and Henry streets. As
always, there is no charge for ad-
mission, and all are encouraged to
attend.

Housing

Students interested in living in
Gaines or Woods Creek Apartments
for the 1993-94 academic year
should stop by the Housing Office
(Payne 4) and pick up an applica-
tion. Applications may be submit-
ted anytime after Dec. 10, 1992.

DC/RA Positions

The application process for stu-
dents interested in being a Dorm
Counselor (Freshman Dorms) or
Resident Assistant (Gaines Hall) is
now open. Applications and infor-
mation are available in Payne 4;
completed applications are due by
Jan. 15, 1993. Specific questions
about the application process or the
DC/RA program should be referred
to Dean Manning, Payne 4A, 463-
8752.

Ski Club

Anyone of any skill level who is
interested in joining the ski club/
team should come to an important
organizational meeting Thursday,
Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. in Newcomb 10.
Officers will be elected. Ques-
tions? Call John at 463-9495.

Model EC

Professors or students interested
in either of two available positions
on the Steering Committee of
W&L’s Model European Commu-

Christine Will at 464-3760. The
Steering Committee acts as an ad-
visory body to the Secretary Gen-
eral of the Conference and is re-
sponsible for important planning
decisions.

Fencing

Club Fencing will be starting
again winter term. Interested per-
sons (male or female) should call
either Coach Lyles at 463-8683 or
Chris Keller at 463-4884 ASAP for
details.

Roommate

Roommate needed for winter
and spring term in two bedroom
apartment on Nelson Street. It is
fully furnished except for second
bedroom. Call 463-4917 for more
details.

nity (lonferent:e* sl'rau<ldr»'cqntactl .

Live Drive

If you're drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturday nights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. We're also
looking for yolunteers to help drive.
If interested call Melissa or Jess at
464-4017.

Amnesty

Do you have any spare holiday
greeting cards? W&L’s Amnesty
International chapter will be send-
ing cards to political prisoners in
jail around the world and would
appreciate your donations. Any
cards you can spare should be left in
the Amnesty Card Collection Box
on the main ﬂoor of the library.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum will meet at
noon on Sunday instead of 6:30
p.m. in order for the Nurturing Net-
work, a local adoption group, to
make a presentation about “The
AdoptionOption.”Themeetingwill
be held in the Arlington Women’s
Center. Everyone is welcome.

The Phi

The Ring-tum Phi will not pub-
lish again until Jan. 7. The deadline
for General Notes and Letters to the
Editor will be Tuesday, Jan. 5, at
noon. Have a good holiday.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will
meet Jan. 11 at 8 pm. in room 208
of the University Center. All stu-
dents are welcome to attend.

  , ..,Car1',ax..  .

Anyone who has received a car
tax bill and does not intend to pay it,
please call Fran at 463-8581. The
Phi is interested in student reaction
to the tax.

Help Wanted

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
a Reader-Relations Coordinator.
Great experience in public relations.
Call Cathy or Rick at 463-8581, or
leave a note with Carol Calkins in
the University Center.

Help Wanted

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
outgoing students to help with ad-
vertising sales. It’s good for the
resume, especially C-School ma-
jors! Leave a message for Benjy at
463-8581,orleaveanote witliCarol
Calkins in the University Center.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

What do you want for Christmas?

Meredith Metzger, ’94, Bel Air, Md.
-—— “An unlimited supply of
margaritas.”

Mollie Saunders, ’95, Lexington, Ky., and Kit Dodds, ’95, Columbia, S.C, Matt Gilman, ’95, Ashland, Va. —— Sean Johnson, ’95,Simsbury, Conn.

——‘‘Keanu Reeves in jeans, ...”

“A new term.”

— “My two front teeth.”

 

 

PAGE 4

Buff student bare-butted at Berkeley

FEATURE S.

 

The Ring-tum Phl, December 3, 1992

Cal sophomore receives tw0—week suspension for letting it all hang out

By J orca BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

s winter draws near, University of Califorr1ia-Ber-
A keley sophomore Andrew Martinez, a professed
nudist, is out in the cold.

“I grew up middle class, but I reject a lot of the
middle-values. I don’t believe in monogamy, and I like to
swear a lot. But since I went nude, it’s like I'm lesser in their
eyes because of who I am,” Martinez told The Maneater,
University of Missouri campus newspaper.

Martinez was recently suspended for two weeks after he
defied the chanoellor’s proclamation of no nudity on cam-
pus.

Berkeley sophomore Vicki Berg says Martinez then
came nude to his suspension hearing.

“Last year his nudists beliefs were no big thing,” Berg
said, “Suddenly now it is. But people here really don’t make
a big deal about it.” «

Berg said Martinez goes to class, cats on the lawn in front
of Sproul Hall and visits the wide array of vendors on
Telegraph Avenue—all in the nude.

The publicity blitz on Martinez has included appear-
ances on “Montel Williams Show,” “Hard Copy” and “The

Maury Povich Show.”

He has also been mentioned in publications such as
Newsweek.

“It seems like more of a joke for him,” Berg said. “I just
think he likes the publicity.”

Berg said Martinez staged a “nude-in” soon after The
Daily Californian printed an article about his beliefs, the
first major publicity he had received.

He bought time on the steps of Sproul Hall along with
other nudists last month. Martinez, a group of artists known
as X-Plicit Players, and other campus and community
nudists spoke and painted each other.

“Students were really interested but not seriously,” Cal
sophomore Margaret Lee said.

“We live in a sexually repressive culture,” Martinez told
The Maneater. “Some of the other people who participated
in the ‘nude-in’ would beshunned if their families knew.”

“He usually wears a loincloth and a T-shirt or just boxers,
if he wears anything,” editor of The Daily Californian
Virginia Matzek said.

“I’ve seen him wandering the streets of Berkeley wear—
ing only a T-shirt,” Lee said. “People just try not to stare."

The Maneater reported that Martinez was arrested last
month for jogging nude after dark near a freshman dormi-
tory. Before his suspension campus police arrested him

 

L ‘ tr/'..!'¥““'~ I‘ as,

This 1868 Mlchael Mlley photograph shows Lee mounted on his
prlzed horse Traveller. This Is the only tlme Lee wore hls Confed-

erate unlform after the Clvll war.

   

"15.. 1.“, 5 3‘ wk ,'
7' v

 

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

raveller, the gray horse of Rob-

I en E. Lee, holds a prominent

place in Washington and Lee
University’s history.

While alive, he was Lee’s prized
possession, and even after his demise,
Traveller rernainedasought-afterhorse.

Traveller and Robert E. Lee were
rarely seen apart after Lee acquired the
horse in 1862.

“The two had a tremendous rapport.
He [Lee] would write about Traveller
like he was an old friend,” said Profes-
sor of History Taylor Sanders, univer-
sity historian.

“Traveller is my only companion, I
may also say my pleasure,” Lee once
wrote. “He and I whenever practicable
wander out in the mountains and enjoy
sweet conﬁdence.”

Traveller, who stood 16 hands, or
64 inches, high, was an active and
spirited horse.

“The greatest honor for an under-

\xl \xl Vi‘ \":O:'l WEI \x4 Vél \""O"l \""O"l \"O""l Vgl \':O"'l Vél \"£'l $4 \"£'l wt \':O:'l Vi‘ \":O:'4 Vg \""O"l \"Ov“'l \""O[l Vgl \§l \'£l ‘ (
:1 . .1V30341.0.0.0.:130.04r.o.v.o.u.o.1r.o.17.9.0.04v.o.v.o.v.o.1r.o.1r.o.v.o.v.o.v.¢.11.0.0.0.:v.o.v.o.u.o.v.o.1 58,‘
>9»: :9:
5 =. 511‘
:3‘: B 2 s

D I
'23:?‘ :13’.
L L‘ d 5 :'
I‘ '1 0 0
g8; 11 en 
Bite :1:
- - - -
51:1: 
. - - ,
r‘ '1 Q Q Q 
gig: :: 3:
.232 
'23:‘ {~15}
' ‘ 4 L
5 g r 1
01:0  '4
v. 4 : :
r 1 ‘.1 .‘
'13‘ r <
’= :‘ F 3.
=4»: oar 2‘:-
F ’. 7 '*
.~1I°. -133
? # V 7
51:31 28:1
5 3. V "
.3. :8:
v. .< : =
9‘ ’« ’. .‘
.~:t«. P EN’ |‘ .1 _.
5 ’« '21:‘
.132 . 2 s
7 " 33°‘
-:31. 2 s
r '. ' ‘
etc I :13’.
D 1 A
L A ’: :‘
58:3 
- - - ,
Fat‘: 
33'. v. .4
5 =. 7 7
4:» :19.
'= =‘ F ’.
'49‘ :8:
’: =‘ 3 3.
$3.‘ :8’.
': 3‘ 5 5.
D C . .
~;“;« 
51:4 21:.
-‘ ’* '31:?‘
fit’. v. .4
S 3, 7 '4
:31. 5“:
r '. v 4
«at» :3:
L 4 : :
V V D I
:;:t~: F °d D b 4 8'30 3:1‘
‘ 1'1 3 CCCITI er m ‘ ’
Fat? y’ 9 ° p’ ° 28:1
- - .
M AND M
’ ~ ~ 3
 1:85
r ’. O '23:‘
£93 ‘ ‘ 5 g
. _ .
W 0116 H100“ III 1'1“
': =‘ 5 ‘I
I I
gt; :3.
r '. 9 9 >2 3
5*‘; :3‘:
31:4 :8:
*‘ " '31:?
 Th d 1) b 3 8°00  
C
git; urs ay, ecem er , . p.m. git;
7 " 51!‘
'=“1 Sunday December 5 3°00 m ‘- -1
23:’; 9 9 ' 1)‘ ° .38:
V 7 . I 4
38% & 6.00 p.m. at;
5 =. :3.‘
£1  lxl Kxl ﬁx‘ lxl Bx‘ Ix! 8"! Ix! Ix! bx! Ixl I20‘! lxl Ix! bx! Bxl Ix! Bx! Ix‘ IVA‘! lxl lxl B34 8214 lxl Ix‘ |' J
r.'o'.\ v.'o'..\ r.'o'.\ r.'o'.\ r.'o'.\ r.'o'..\ r.'¢'.\ r.'o'.\ r."o.\ r.'o'.\ r.'o'.\ v.'¢'.\ v.'o'.\ r.o".\ r."o.\ r."o.\ r.'o'.\ v.'v'.\ v."o.\ v.'o'.\ r.'o'.\ r.'0'.\ .3‘... v.¢".\ v."o.\ r."o.\ v.'o'.\

twice for violating a county code that prohibits any person
who “willfully and lewdly exposes his person . . . in any
public place.”

“I think that nudism is right and was made illegal un-
justly,” Martinez said.

Berg doesn't mind Martinez expressing his beliefs.

“He’s pretty hot,” she said.

Some W&L students don’t find Martinez’s actions very
shocking.

“As long as he doesn't violate school rules then it's all
right. It’s his form of expression,” W&L freshman Jon
Branham said.

“I’d be quite impressed if someone came to class nude,"
Branham said. “Too many people at W&L don’t express the
way they feel.”

Dean of Students David Howison said if Martinez were
a W&L student he might be violating Lexington law, as well
as W&L policies.

“We have no explicit anti—nude policy but we do have
something to deal with it,” he said.

Howison said if worse comes to worse he would refer
him to the Student Conduct Committee for violation of the
W&L statement of civility.

“You can express yourself,” Howison said, “but do it
within the law.”

graduate wouldbeto take  I-"'
Travellerforarideacross ‘ "
campus. He was also a
source of souvenirs.
People would cut hair
from his tail and
mane,”Sanders said.

In fact, his hair be-
came so prized that Gen-
eral Lee described Trav-
eller as having “the ap-
pearance of a plucked
chicken.”

After Lee died from
heart failure, Traveller
participated in the fu-

..,

W&L still remembers Travel|er’s interesting

    

. ‘;_V..‘_..-. ‘I ’.P.~~‘J.' ..»l‘.: ..-»>  .

neral procession with his
saddle and bridle draped
with crepe and Lee's boots reversed in rest in Woods Creek. However, his
his stirrups. bones were of interest to grave-robbers

Traveller roamed the grounds of in 1907.
W&L until his own death eight months
later.

“Traveller died of lockjaw after he
stepped on a msty nail on campus,”
said Robert Peniston, director of Lee
Chapel.

Originally, Traveller was laid to

World’s Fair.
Peniston said.

BOOM BOOM

955182: J

“He was exhumed by some ne’er-
do-wells who dug him up [with plans]
to put him together and take him to the
They were caught,”

Instead of re-burying Traveller,
W&L ofﬁcials chose to display his

history

skeleton on campus.

“Students used to sign the bone‘
before exams to get passing marks.
That’s what we ’ve been told,” Peniston
said.

The bones were in such poor condi-
tion that officials reinterred them with
great ceremony in 1971 behind Lee
Chapel. ‘

A marker identiﬁes Traveller's f-
nal resting place.

Another marker marks Trave1ler’s
stable, which is presently the garage
for the university president's house.

Popular author Richard Adams
made a tribute to Travel1er’s place in
history with a book named after hirri
and written from the horse's view-
point.

“[The book is] historically accu-
rate,” Peniston said. “Traveller talks
about horses of these people [that make
up W&L history] and you know from .
how he describes the setting what battle
they’re in.”

“Traveller is probably one of the
most famous horses of the 19th cen-
tury,” Sanders said.

CWASHINGTON AND LEE BOOKSTORE
DECEMBER 4 THROUGH DECEMBER 12

'3

\

V

$50

e Fling-tum Phi, December 3, 1992

 

PAGE 5

I

1'
4
4

i

to

 .-:.J4rnk_2..._.__1_j'

&

.>

Fashion
broadens
honzons

‘By KATIE YDEL
Phi Staff Writer

Tonight at 6 p.m., Over the
Garden Wall will present a fash-
ion show to broaden Lexington’s
hﬁrizons. ‘

“I’m introducing to local
people and students what’s going
on in the rest of the world in art,
not in fashion, ” said Elizabeth
vWarren, owner of the Washing-
ton Street shop.

H Warren is producing the show
with Dolores Holmes,who makes
much of the shop’s clothing, and
Ursula Goad, a jewelry maker and
teacher. The show will be held in
the store and will feature poetry
about the clothes, as well as mu-
5%: and food. Warren said that
she’s working on a relaxed atmo-
sphere and maybe some kind of
“ending surprise.”

Over the Garden Wall, which
opened inJuly, carries hand-made
jewelry, Amish baskets, one-of-
zﬁkind clothing, and other art, like
pottery and paintings. Most of the
pieces are made by artists in the
area, in Canada, and even in Eu-
rope.

’ Warren said she thinks Lex-
ington has plenty of room to grow
ﬁtistically.

“I want to bring nice stuff you’d
usually see in a big city,” she said.

Warren has vests and dresses

madefrom antiqueclothand hand-
woven ponchos and sweaters, all
from local artists.
., Warren said she’s found that
hand-painted coats like the ones
in her store are “all the rage” in
Europe.

Through the show Warren
hopes to spark more interest in art
and artistic clothing, not just in

ashion. She said she’s planning a
how that will expose the com-
munity to new things.

“1t’s going to be outrageous!”

FEATURES

The evolution of Heidi

Play chronicles woman’s life

By Jovcrz BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

onight marks the second

performance of Lenfest’ s

latest production “The

Heidi Chronicles,” by
Wendy Wassertein.

As reported in Curtain Call,
the Heidi of Miss Wassenien’s
play is 40-year-old professor
Heidi Holland, whom the audi-
ence meets in 1990 as she shows
slides to her art history class at
Columbia University.

One slide triggers a ﬂashback
to a 1965 high school dance.

The Tony Award-winning
play is directed by Washington
and Lee's playwright-in-resi-
dence, Tom Ziegler.

“When I first saw Wendy
Wassertein’s‘ Heidi Chronicles’
in New York a few years ago, I
was delighted to encounter an-

other poor soul who seemed slightly
out of sync with the rollicking turbu-

lence of that time,” Ziegler said

The main Character Of Heidi is the characters of Debbie and Denise,

agrees with Mikita.

“It doesn’t male bash at all,”
Aussiker said. “It’saboutHeidi’s
evolution and what she ﬁnds out
about herself.”

Aussiker is one of several
actors who portray more than
one character.

Sophomore Michael Neal
plays a total of six characters.

Two of the six are homo-
sexuals.

“I didn’thaveaproblern play-
ing gay characters,” Neal said.
“All the gay characters in the
play are not stereotypical. They
___ W Wm "M are all played with a lot of integ-

u Folndener. s l . , K ’ ' , n
L _ ‘ . . ,

 TheHeidi
Chronicles ;

A Play by
Wendy _
Wasserstem

Neal emphasizes the simi-
larities of women’s plight in so-
ciety with that of homosexuals.

“Equality is an issue for ev-
eryone,” Neal said. “Heidi's
ﬁghting for the right for every-
one to have a place.”

He said the play makes a
point of explaining that just because
women and homosexuals are generally
seen as inferior and different does not

Directed by

Tom Ziegler

“However, it’s not a feminist play
but a humanist play,” Mikita said.
Junior Heather Aussiker, who plays

played by senior Erin mean they cannot
Walsh. excel.

At the high school Mikita said the
dance she falls for Pe- characters begin
ter Patrone, played by asidealists butend
third-year law student as pessimists and
James Scales, who materialists.
later in the scene re- “Heidi is the
veals his homosexual- only character
ity. who always be-

Senior Jeff Mikita , lieved in her life,”
plays Scoop ‘ Mikita said.
Rosenbaum, the other The play traces

male lead.
“He’s a jerk to a lot

the life of Heidi
from the 1960s

of people and he through the 1980s.
knowsit,”Mikitasaid. “The produc-
“But there’s always tionreally captures
another side to him.” the three decades
Heidi and Scoop’s brought out in the
ﬁrstmeeting wasvery play, Mikita said.
confrontational. He emphasizes
“He’s trying to re- the play’s theme of
veal Heidi to herself,” reﬂection.
Mikita said. “Reflect on

He said the play
has mostly feminine
qualities and men are
simply catalyst cen-
ters on the females.

your life and the

Photo by w. Patrick Hineiy. war. °h919eSY01}mak°,”

Mikita said, “the

Lyrae Van Cllet and Neal portray two hlpples at an Eugene peopleyou’vebeen
McCarthy fundraiser In 1968. with,andcarryon.”

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Canine cry
5 Situated

10 Trade

14 Gumbo

15 Serviceable. old
style

16 Cabbage type

17 Narrow cut

18 Kind of
boom

19 Original thought

20 Luncheonette

22 More
tumultuous

24 Seizes

26 A cheese

27 Relative of a
gloss

31 Gives off

34 Pointed tool

35 False gods

37 A planet

39 Single thing

41 Vocalize in the
Alps

43 Understand

44 At no time

46 Kind of
colony

48 In poor health

49 Send payment

51 woos

53 Place for
swimming

55 Gamblers’
haven

56 Disturb

60 Where 55A is

64 Raise

65 Mystical card

67 Religious
picture

68 Wheel hub

69 Writer Zola

70 -—-nine-tails

71 Raced

72 Worked on a
lawn

73 Paradise

DOWN
1 Stockings
2 A state: abbr.
3 Court order
4 Undeveloped
5 Snoop

@1992 Tribune Media Services. Inc.

All Rights Reserved

6 From — Z

7 Transgresslons

8 The cream

9 Unscramble a

message
10 Coffee Iightener
11 Dry gully
12 Nautical term
13 Bose. for one
21 Indian queen
23 sloping way
25 Porch
27 Mythical
creature

28 Proprietor
29 Green color
30 — statesman
32 Old garment
33 Pilfered

' 36 Man of

La Mancha
38 Birds of

P79)’
40 Moderated
42 Mourned

 

50 Wobble
52 inexperienced
one
54 Andes animal
56 Samovars

45 Wild disturbance 57 — tide

47 Passageway

58 Rescue

  

12/03/92
Last week's Answers:

59 Norwegian
navigator
61 School: abbr.
62 Show excessive
fondness
63 Soon
66 Bravo!

WLUR weekday schedule

Morning Mag (Rock) - Monday - Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.

Jazz - Monday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.; Monday-Thursday, 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
AM Overture (Classical) - Tuesday-Friday, 9 a.rn.-11 a.m.
Inspirational - Thursday, 9 a.m.-11 a.m.; Monday, 2 p.m.-3 pm.
Public Affairs - Monday-Friday, 11 a.m.-l 1 :30 am.

Country - Monday-Friday, 12 pm.-1:30 p.m.

Dance/Rap - Tuesday, 2 p.rn.-3 p.rn.; Friday, 8 p.m.-11:30 pm.

Rock - Wednesday-Friday, 2 pm.-3 p.m.

Breakthrough Rock - Monday-Friday, 3:30 pm.-5:30 p.m.
Classical Showcase - Monday-Thursday, 6 p.m.-9 p.m.

Third Ear - Monday-Friday, 12 a.m.-2 a.m.

I

‘®

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller.
The holiday gift you can really use.

An Apple® Macintosh® computer is the one holiday gift that will help

you work better and faster from one new year to the next. Because

Macintosh is so easy to use. And thousands of software applications are
available to help you with any course you’ll ever take. There’s even
software that allows you to exchange information with computers
running MS-DOS or Windows. In fact, Macintosh is the most compatible
computer you can buy. And the advantages of Macintosh don’t end

when school does — the majority of Fortune 1000 companies now use
Macintosh computers?‘ So ask your Apple Campus Reseller to help you
choose which Macintosh to put at the top of your holiday gift list.

Macintosh. It’s more than a present, it’s a future.

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Com
of Microsoft Corporation. ‘Based on a survey con 'ucted by Computer Intelligence, 1991.

For further information visit the

Computer Center in
Tucker Hall

and ask for Mac McCloud

or call 463-8844

Tell your folks a new Macintosh will help
you succeed today as well as tomorrow.
It shows you’re thinking ahead.

purer, Inc. MS-DOS is 3 rcgixtcrcrl trad;-mark, and Wln(l()W.\’ a trademark,

  
    
 
      
     
      
      
     
       
 
   
     
 
       

  

  

 

 

PAGE 6

The Ring-tum Phl, December 3, 1992

  Science_center still
on drawing board ':

Plans to renovate Washington and Lee's science buildings for the first time in 30 years might be ’ ~

delayed further by a staggering price tag and controversy over the design of the buildings.
Three architectural firms presented models to uni-

I I I E” versity officials and members of the Board of Tnisteeﬁ ‘
By E16" Edi Nov. 21, showing how they proposed to build the new
H" NW‘ ‘°' science center. Dean of the College John Elrod said
Payette and Associates, a Boston architectural ﬁrm that ‘A

      
  

    

&\\.‘i\‘i

.\ \ \\\s*§:\\\ r.
“ 
.... \--:"_“‘_'__
= =..... —- I .
. --.'."::  " .

   
   
        
   
  
  
  

  
  

‘me ‘-“‘ “

             
  
  

II has designed science buildings for Harvard University and the University of California, was chosen
/gégﬂ . because they specialize in college science buildings. ”
‘ 

But Capital Planning Director Frank Parsons said some members of the Board of Trustees objected
to elements of the Payette and Associates’ model. The model shows Howe and Parmly Halls, the two
current science buildings, connected by a new
building with a curved front wall, ﬁve front
columns, and an exterior glass staircase.

“Some [board members] felt it was too
modern,” Parsons said. “There was a little bit
too much glass in a few places.”

Parsons said architects will be meeting
with university officials and science depart-
ment chairmen over the next year to discuss
design ideas. Parsons said the center will not
necessarily look like Payette’s model.

“They haven’t even talked to the depart-
ment heads to see what their needs are,” Par-
sons said. “It’s very premature to say what thy,
building will look like.”

Parsons said the Board of Trustees will
have the ﬁnal decision on how the building
will look. '

“Having five columns is like having a five-
cylinder engine,” Parsons said. “Believe me
it’s going to change.” .

While the physical plans of the science
center are being discussed, the university still
must determine a way to pay for it.

, According to a summary of W&L’s current
capital campaign, $8 million is earmarked for
_ Ph°t°s by Mallory Meyers’ The Hingwm PM the science center. But Elrod said in Septem-
The proposed Science ber that although W&L has not been given a ﬁnal price tag for the project, he believes it will cost much more.‘
center (above and be- “[$8 million] is insufficient to do what we need to do,“ Elrod said.

Iow) iIIc|ude3 extensive Elrod said Parrnly and Howe were victims of_ a ‘deferred maintenance’ program that routed maintenance
I.en°vaII°ns Io paI.IIIIy money away from them and to_other building projects. Howe was built in 1962, the same year Parmly was last
and Howe Irigm) pIus renovated. Since then, the buildings have become an embarassment as well as a safety hazard, Elrod said.
the addition OI a third Parsons said plans for the science center will only move forward as fast as money is raised to pay for it. The

 
  
 
  
         
    

_ _ center might be built in stages if donations to the university’s capital campaign are not sufficient to meet 7
   construction costs_ ‘
them. He said other capital projects, such as the proposed student center and renovations to athletic facilities, will‘

be delayed indeﬁnitely until the science center is built. “
Parsons said he believes construction could begin in 1995 if the money becomes available on schedule.

/ﬂ /

1..-i..5-5.-i,.-guy.-i..1..-g-‘q.--.. - '-\'-5‘-%'-5'-%’-':'-f-5'-\'-%'-'ir'-%-

f
u
I’
I
I

 
  

  
 
  

 
 

   
      

 
 
       

   

  

7/   E! III -.7‘:-I.I:'I:'-:'-IIIIr7'I}-:'IrFIri'-I-.'-J‘-.P-J'If'd"""" """"""'F".""’-‘HI.’-..'ﬂiT ’
/ / -. ..
/ -:-'.- .2‘ -
g r S e . g  IJIII - BIIIII5  ‘
é  0- U — -‘:23 offers the following items for your Christmas giving.  ’
¢ . ¢  -*4 *
C T.       I    . Ladies 'Shoes, Clqthmg é  :::.°;*:::.<:.Y°.:'.%..'::;::°“’  »  »
HRIS MAS  A?  “”‘“‘“‘'‘’‘‘””e‘ .7 , . 9,, Z  .:‘;’.:::.‘:.:’..‘.Y.*:'.'.".':.°.:::.......   v
. / , , 03 46 5 I-'.“. . d F in ts -Woolrlch ra socks --I 4'
.Ladies Sweaters for Fall - 20% Off §2r§§a'n3"i§'ra", /f  %’a.i.;rlr‘.‘sZ'lw?.’ic'ri'ba.T.§’;‘ -I)-(l:innarsiic;'ti(1)fctle(Iln';ramlcs  I
e - A -- - - .2:
-Out€I‘WCaI‘ Grouping '   ////////////////  -W&Ldog collars and leashes  I
I 22- :5:
Ecollege Town  Vaﬂey   This week’s special  .
‘ I 111 W- Nelson E5-i Winter outerwear - 20% Off 3} i
I ' l .  I: 5
I‘ All ree Wrapping - UPS Delivery - House Charo Hardware, Paint and Related Items  visa _ Mmmrd  I
7 S 30 6 S 1 5 ‘E3: Gift Certificates - Free gift wrapping  ‘
Open Mon.- at. 8: a.m.- p.m. un. - p.m. ,-.--: _ -3.;
. r‘-. ' 1 3 463-5383. -.-,-.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2185 ;-2'. 102 W’ v_v?§h_"Tg_"_"f _ _ _ _ _S_"_‘°_e_ _9_6 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ .g--.
. '.'-‘:'."f"I-f’!-{'5-f'3}‘I3.‘!-1':-1'I:.'£'-7.‘:-I'3-1‘!-1':-1‘!-i.5-1='i'i'{.'3-7.‘:-1'3.'5-1'3’!-1‘:-7.'1'£'5-i.'i'-i.'1'-1.1"-1'5-iii‘!-i.1'#.'I-i.1'-1'3-T.‘ -2
fr 1‘ ’

,, A . u n\ "
' BUY ONE PIZZA   Ga“ F“s“‘°g*},‘;,‘;f8{,‘3}; SI§‘}}‘°“‘ B°“"' W&L Art

A  ONE OI: EQUAL VALUE FREE Every Day I 1870 Washington College Diploma i

signed “RE. Lee"

 

 

I G I F M Lee Signaturcls2:.E. Lee, Jr.
Fiatgiugh Lee John Letcher .
a U S I O U T I F T g M.Miley Edward Valentine
0 S uth M I St ID ntown Lexington W&L Copperplate re-strike, hand-colored
C 3 (iron.-Sail. 9::f5:3gw 463-9730 J W&LS‘:‘:{51p{:Ir'3éIS‘eI)°yh§R’(§iItI°.‘I3uer:1I1st(i,‘;In an
a n d K e ep George and Mary Washington pieces
' I, I I @> . . ’
O
C ' 9”“ iiiiiniiiiiiiiiis
4 East Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday a
Here's a money-saving offer to curb the urge  Lexington. VA 24450 10 a-m- - 5230 Pm-
of those late night munchies. Try our famous Lg (703) 4646464 24
Pan Pizza with all your favorite toppings, P I I
delweredholandfaSll0y0Urd00r.   
I ' ‘ I \ \

 . Special Bulletin I § Moonlight Madness §.
pizza HUI Deﬁvefy , , _ (;,eaI fasfe de]I‘ye,ed_l : New at Berky’s Restaurant at LEE-HI Truck Stop: Friday I § §
©1989 Pizza Hut, Inc. & Saturday Night Breakfast Buffet from 11 p.m. to 4 a.m. I § § I

I" " "" " -"' " " "' - " " " - " - " "' " " " "' '1 : with all your breakfast food. Homemade Sausage Gravy & I § § I
I Sfudem‘ 3P9CI'C7/i I :33." i£i;‘.3§i1‘.r§§”r$.§L°r§1§f§§’r7 éiifi" rrS.f§.‘.‘§.S§§‘;‘.’§‘."g‘§". : §  *
| A A I M dl, £1: h 15 "r ,1: rich Toast, and Much More! I \ \ ‘ ‘
I 2 I I 1 I I e eyo res rui s re  h I §    s
I pizzas for the price of I I News as I § §
I BUY ONE PIZZA, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FREE I In that’snot enough. we also offer this Buffetasainon I § DEC. 9th, 7-10 p.m. § i
I NOT VALID WITH OTHER COUPONS, SPECIALS on DISCOUNTS I ' Sunday Morning from 8 am to 2 P-m- We are open every’ I § § "
I REDEEMABLE AT THE LEXINGTON PIZZA HUT ONLY I day, 24 hours a day, with a New & Improved Menu. Break- I § 20 70 Off 3 0st §
I WITH COLLEGE ID . I I Est 24hHours :1 day. Luciiichsand Dinner 24,ltl;>:u}i1';z;:al)'e.t us I § 0 * g
I _ _ A I veryt in g 1S omema e. ince you can I , I \  \
I I '   [$1213 I do your Homecooking for you‘, no matter what time of day. I % e y mg g
I Offer expires I 2_ I 8_92 “to : I We offer prompt and fast service. I \§ *EXcIud'-ng Textbooks, FI-Im & Music § 9
0 1969 Pizza Hut. Inc. Our drivers any no more than $20. 1/2'0‘centca.sh rederrption va|ueJ I Located 5  N01‘ Of  0!! Route I l. I § \

f
//

 

111:111j111111j111111J

 

\ -i

e Ring-tum Phl, December 3, 1992

Hams Teeter

‘ MEANS LOW PRICES

I TYSON-HOLLY FARMS -W
JUMBO PACK
EEG LB.

I .BUY ONE POUND or

o -4.. p .g_

A ~¢ L <~ Ar 2 -v A ,— Q

' to assist students with school

.
.
A
4
Y
4
-I

A

A REDUCED PRICE I .

I’ HAM

. E”  

fjjjjjjjj

-9

30-40 COUNT

LARGE

Chidsen Leg Quarters

K‘ 

DIET COKE OR
COCA-COLA

6 PK.

REGULAR
TURKEY

t 20 oz.
- BREAST NR 

AT REGULAR RETAIL AND
GET ONE POUND OF

BOIl.ED

REDUCED
PRICE __,_ 

WATER ADDED

Job Opportunities

In The Retail Grocery Field
'' FOR STUDENTS RED BARON
Why Work For '35? ‘"5"  00

ZA ................ ..t0.75-12 oz.
Harris Teeter?

1) Flexible work hours designed $81-A-,-O 2/I 

CHIPS ...................... .. 7 OZ.

KLEENEX (754 sQ,FT,)
BATH 
TISSUE ............................ ..4 PK. ROI! 0

activities.

2) On--the-job-training

3) Good starting pay

4) Pay raises based on individual

experience.

5) Paid vacation after 1 year of
service

6) year round employment

7) career opportunities after
graduation

Join The Best Team In

Town!
Our Orﬁnings Are Immediate
And ill e Filled As We
Interview, So Don't Delay.

Come By Any Harris Teeter
Location.

HT
i’¢i‘r€Is"“‘
O9

64 OZ.

MERRY LEXINGTON

Smdem---

Before you leave on vacation, enjoy the ﬂavor of Lexington’s special hometown
holliday. More than ﬁfty downtown businesses invite you to enjoy the delicious food
at their open houses -- treats using favorite family recipes. At the same time, see the
talents of local people as they demonstrate various skills on the day of their open
houses. To see what is going on every day, check the Merry Lexington Calendar of
Events available in business all over downtown. I

Why not surprise your family, and yourself, this holiday season! Do your
Christmas shopping early -- in Downtown Lexington. The stores in Downtown

Lexington offer unique items that are not found in Shopping Mall, USA. Your
family and friends will be glad you did!  .

DOWNTOWN
LEXINGTON

COOKIE C0'rrAcT-: WORKSHOP
Merry Lexington activities
(LDDA). Call us at 463-71

HELP WANTED

The Ring—tum Phi is looking for mo-
tivated students to fill the following
positions:

Reader—Re1ations Editor
Advertising Salesmen

Production Assistants
Advertising Production Manager

For Info. Call 463-8581

the annual christmas Parade are coordinated by the Lexington Downtown Development Association
' you have questions about any of these activities.

Uni
Christmas
Candlelight
Service
A Service of Nine
Lessons and Carols

Lee Chapel
Dec. 10, 1992
7:30 p.m.

All Welcome!

VALUABLE $1.00 COUPON
I 00 OFF '
0 C I

ANY $3.00 on MORE I ADCCOFFEE
PURCHASE IN OUR DELI I
DEPARTMENT . 23 OZ.

. BAG

MAXWELL HOUSE

MASTER
BLEND

SPECIAL I
PRICE

THIS COUPON MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED.
LIMIT ONE COUPON PER FAMILY VISIT
OFFER

GOOD D£C.2, THRU DEC. , 1992 I
coupon DELI
VALUE
51.00

  :-1_:

I''

Prices Effective Through December 8, I992

0 Prices In This Ad Etiective Wednesday December 2 Throu Tuesday, Dec, 8, I992. In Mecklenburg County Stores
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Solid To Dea ers. We Gladly Accept Federal ood Stamps.

you are corcfiaffy invited to an informal
gatfiering ofﬂeicfi and Her cfosestfriencisl

THE HEIDI CHRONICLES
b
Wendy Wa)sserstein

 December 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 & 9 at 8 PM
December 6 at 2 PM
December 8 at 9 PM

463-8000 (TICKETS)

JOHNSON THEATRE

 

 

Last Week:

Basketball- VWC 84,W&L 68 (3-2)
Swim-(M) W&L 123,VMI 82 (3-0)

(W) W&L 145,Sweet Briar 114 (2-0)
CC- Schaeffer 2nd at Nats.; Hannah 56th

at Nats.

PAGE 8

S

flirt: TKTIIQ-ﬁlm iﬂlri

PORTS

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Head coach Verne Caniieid watches Mark Conneiiy(shootlng) and Cam Dyer finish up a fast break
during practice drills this week. The Generals are preparing for Hampden-Sydney tonlht at 7:30.

Big men power W&L
during road swing

By JUSTIN MCNAULL
Phi Staff Writer

Streaky shooting forced head coach
Verne Cariﬁeld to play musical guards,
but consistent play by two big men led
the Generals to three wins in a three-
state, ﬁve-game Thanksgiving road trip.

Games I & 2 - Sm Antenie

Washington and Lee dropped the
season opener to Trinity (Tex.) 71-63,
but rebounded with a 56-53 win over
Harnline (Minn.) in the consolation
game of the Trinity Invitational in San
Antonio.

Sophomore Mark Connelly scored
23 points and grabbed 12 rebounds in
two games as he made the all-touma-
ment team. The 6-7 forward made 64
percent of his shots.

Connelly’s play impressed Canfield,
but it didn’t surprise the veteran coach.

“Mark has the potential to be an
excellent big man,” said Canﬁeld.
“You’ll eventually see him shooting
the three-pointer and posting up, but
right now we're concentrating on him
inside.”

Connelly’s height inside helped
open up center Robert Miggins, who
had 20 points and 12 rebounds during
the tournament.

“For his size, he’ s the best rebounder
I’ve had,” said Canfield. “He hits the
boards real hard and takes the ball to
the hole real well.”

Junior guard Matt Newton also
stepped up his play during the touma-
ment, scoring 22 points in only 34
minutes off the bench, hitting all four
of his 3-point shots and playing strong
defense (ﬁve steals).

“Matt has a great capacity to score
quickly,” said Cariﬁeld. “He can come
off the bench and play great defense.”

The Generals needed Newton’s
scoring punch as starting senior guards
Bryan Watkins and Bryan Brading
struggled in San Antonio, shooting an

UNIV

 

aRsfT3%'

     

SPORTWEAR

T5 VV. WASHINGTON ST
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merreii Hiking Boots

abysmal 3-for-34. Good games by
freshman Derek Carter (nine points.
vs. Hamline) and sophomore John
Rogers (eight points vs.Trinity) earned
the split, despite the team’s ice cold 37
percent shooting.

More importantly, the Generals got
the ball to the right people at the right
times for the Harnline win. .

- h‘

The Generals showed up at Sewanee
three days later and unloaded, scoring
85 points as ﬁve players reached double
figures.

Watkins came back in a fury, scor-
ing a career-high 26 points on 7-10
shooting, and 9-11 on free throws.

Brading joined the guard resurgence,
shooting well (3-5, 2 3-pointers) and
scoring 10 points, his high for the trip.

Carter added 13 points and five re-
bounds in only 18 minutes of play. The
freshman averaged 6.4 points on 48
percent shooting during the road trip.

Connelly stayed sharp with 12points
and six rebounds before fouling out.

Canfield likes how his team re-
sponded to Sewanee’s challenge.

“This proves we can play at a hos-
tile crowd with some poor ofﬁciating
and stay within our game plan,” he
said. “It’s a great thing to see early in
the season and is a credit to the play-
ers."

Game 4 - Bridgewater, Virginia

The Generals’ 48-point second half
blitz put away Bridgewater, 67-54, as
the W&L ended the day atop the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference stand-
ings (3-l overall, 1-0 ODAC).

A ﬁrst half reminiscent of the Texas
shooting syndrome (30 percent) left
the Generals down 21-19 at the half,
but Watkins and freshman starter Cam
Dyer lit up the Eagles, shooting nearly
70 percent.

Watkins chipped in 14 of his team-
high 17 points in the second half and
Dyer scored all 10 of his in the second
frame.

 
 
  
  

I - Do You Want VISA & Mastercar Credit Cards? '
50‘: I

» Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Visa® and MasterCard®
credit cards..“ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VlSA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need Tor— ID—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST ORES—TUlTl0N—I-ZNTERTAI NM ENT-
EMERGENCY U\SH—TlCKE'IS—RESTAURANI‘S-—
H0,TEl.S—MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

1%!‘
v\5*"{Iii¢‘° M
Ga. 

A 13-2 second half rim put away the
Eagles, picked fourth in the ODAC.

The Generals shot well (5 1 percent)
making seven of 16 tliree-pointers and
made 10 more free throws than
Bridgewater.

Connelly and Miggins threw irinine
points each, as Miggins ripped nine
rebounds. Rogers scored seven points
in only 10 minutes.

For his strong second half against
Bridgewater and his pasting of
Sewanee, Watkins was named ODAC
Player of the Week.

game 5 - yirginia Beaeh

Miggins career-high 20 points and
nine rebounds couldn't carry the Gen-
erals to a win at Virginia Wesleyan, as
only two Generals shot over 33 per-
cent.

This one was decided early as Vir-
ginia Wesleyan blasted W&L 46-28 in
the ﬁrst half and rolled to an 84-68 win.

Miggins made nine of 12 shots and
pulled down five offensiverebounds in
only 25 minutes of play.

Senior Darren Johnson showed a
glimpse of his talent, scoring eight
points (4-7) in only nine minutes.

Watkins had 12points anda season-
high six assists, but missed 11 of his 14
shots.

fl his Week

After a rigorous road stint, the Gen-
erals hope to continue their winning
ways in the Warner Center during a
three-garne ODAC home stand before
finals.

Defending ODAC champions
Hampden-Sydney visit Lexington to-
night for a 7:30 tip-off.

After the Generals host Guilford
Saturday evening, Emory & Henry
comes to town. Sports Illustrated ranked
the Wasps ninth nationally in Division
III, and this loaded squad is picked to
win the ODAC.

If the backcourt puts together a
strong game, the Generals may sur-
prise the Wasps.

This Week:

Basketball- H-SC 12/3 7:30

Guilford 12/5 7:30
W Swim- R-MWC 12/8 7:00
Wrest.-at Lebanon Valley Toum. 12/4

O~

DECEMBER 3, 1992‘

Hannah and Schaeffer end’ :
record years at nationals _:

By SEAN O~’RoURxE
Phi Sports Editor

With New Year's just around the
comer, it was ironic that the two Wash-
ington and Lee runners competing in
the Division IH National Cross Coun-
try Championships would symbolize
the “out-with-the-old-in-with-the-
new” for the Generals.

Senior Bo Harmah and freshman
Josephine Schaeffer traveled to
Saratoga Springs,N.Y.,to end the 1992
cross country season.

ForHannah,it was his secondtripto
the championships and the ﬁnal race in
an excellent career. Hannah anchored
the Generals this year, finishing first
for W&L in every race.

Hannah said this trip to Nationals
was even more excitingtlianlast year’s.

“It was exciting to make it last year,”
Hannah said, “but this year was more
exciting sincel am a senior andl knew
it was my final race.”

Even though Hannah finished in
56th-place, he ran his best time of the
season, 25:52.

“I ﬁnished higher last year, but the
competition was tougher this year.”

Hannah would be the main story of
the championships for the W&L faith-
ful, but like this entire season, Schaeffer
stole the spotlight.

Schaeffer became the first W&L
woman to earn All-America honors,
finishing 12th with a time of 18:27.

Schaeffer has been the story for the
cross country season since she won her
first collegiate race back in September.

Schaeffer said she was excited to

make the championship meet.
“I was very excited but I didn’t

know what to expect,” Schaeffer said.
“I was pleased with the way Iran, I felt

comfortable the whole race.” ‘ ,_

After all Schaeffer has seen this
year, she encountered something new
in New York. Snow.

“This was not my best raQe,”r

Schaeffer said, “I had never rim in‘
snow before. I’ve deﬁnitely had better,
ones.”

While Hannah departs W&L for the‘-‘
great unknown of the “real world,”
Schaeffer has three more years to im-I
ggove on her already impressive nﬁm-v

rs.

Schaeffer does understand that with

her success this year, the pressure will
be on to do better next season. v
‘‘There’s definitely a lot of pressure 
to improve my times,” Schaeffer said. .
“But I’m going to do whatever it tzﬂies A
to improve.” 4

Swimmers continue strong

performances in first half ' .

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

3

. . 9
A year ago, the men’s team went into Christmas break

with a 2-2 mark. This year, even without Doug Brown, tli

For a school that is said to be on “the Hill”, Washington
and Lee has been doing quite well in the water.

The men’s and women's swim teams are a combined 5-
0 after each earned a victory Wednesday night. The women
won their second ofﬁcial meet of the season by out-pointing
Sweet Briar 145-114, while the men’s team defeated VMI

123-82 to improve to 3-0.

With two straight comfortable victories, the women
swimmers are proving that eight is enough; eight, as in
swimmers. Half of the small squad were multi-winners

‘ against Sweet Briar.

Senior Claire Dudley and fresh-
man Rebekah Prince were victors in
three individual races apiece, while
sophomores Susan Fisher and
Brandi Henderson won two each.

Dudley, the team captain, took
the 100 and 200-yard breaststroke

 

swim very well.”

W&L.

Pearson continued to dominate
the 50-yard freestyle, finishing first
with a time of 22.36 seconds.

Sophomore Grant Holicky and
freshmen Frank Braden and Justin
Dardani contributed wins for '

team heads into vacation with a perfect 3-0 record. .
Last month, the Generals beat a determined Mary Wash-
ington squad, 120-82, with senior Andrew Pearson leading
the way with two individual wins. ,
“We had respect for them going
in,” head coach Page Remillard
said. “They thought they were go-
ing to win the meet. So we had to

   

The Generals’ next meet against VMI was a grudge
match for the men’ steam.Reniil1ard was confident entering ‘
the meet Wednesday night. .

“We have every intention of winning the Lexington city

The Generals went out and did just that in an easy 123- ‘
82 conquest of the Keydets. 0

' and the 50-yard freestyle. championship,” Remillard said on Tuesday.
DudIey Dudley is the defending confer-
ence champion in both breaststroke
events.

Last year’s meet at W&L was an intense battle that the A

Prince has rriade an immediate impact on W&L swim-
ming, breaking the school record in the 200-yard backstroke
in her college debut two weeks ago.

Pn'nce’s time of 2:16.61 was faster than the winning time
in last. year’s conference championship 200-yard back-
stroke.

Against Sweet Briar, the Texas native won the 100 and
200 backstroke, and the 100 butterﬂy. Prince and Dudley
have claimed six races each in the ﬁrst two competitions.

Fisher helped the Generals with wins in the 800-yard

Generals won handily. This year was no different. .

The Generals fulﬁlled Remillard’s prediction and con- '
tinued to dominate the recent series between the two rival 9
schools. .

The men now get to sit on their perfect mark until next ’
semester. They will work out for a week before they mﬂre .,
their return to the pool to kick off winter term with a home
meet versus Catholic University on Jan. 9. V

The women’s team still has one more meet , at hone next _
Tuesday against Randolph-Macon Women's College.

freestyle and the 200 individual medley. Henderson added

200 and 400 freestyle wins.

Senior Leslie Hess ended her vol-
leyball career at Washington and Lee
in early November.

In early December, Hess had her
accomplishments acknowledged by
being named to both the GTE Aca-
demic All-District team and the All-
ODAC second team.

Hess ﬁnished the season with 182
kilss and a tearn-high 299 digs. She
also finished the season second in
blocks with 36 and second in aces with
39.

Hess was co-captain of a team that
improved on 1991’s record with a 13-
14 finish.

Hess was one of the main reasons

Cannondale - - Diamond Back - Giant
Jarisport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

 

130 S. Main St.

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

463-7969

 
  

Approval absolutely guaranteed so

HAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

CRAFTS PLUS. IC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 S.Main St., Lexington 4163-3355

No credit
no security deposit!

   

against Catholic.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

the Generals had a chance at the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference title.
However, the Generals fell to Eastern
Mennonite, 3-1.

Hess ﬁnished her career as W&L’s
all-time leader in service aces with
(158), serve attempts (1,343), career
digs (1,036) and games played (355).

Hess also ﬁnished second all-time
in career kills (609), attack attempts
(2,104) and block points (122). -

The Generals’ wrestling team gets
back on the mats at the Lebanon Valley
Tournament.

The big-time meet attracts a num-
ber of the top teams in Division III

After break, the women return to action with the men *

>

wrestling and should be a litmus test '
for the Generals. .-

Freshman Rob Sands and so;1io- '
more Lea Abercrombie will look to 0
continue their success in the early part
of the season.

In the VMI Keydet Invitational, ,
Sands recorded three wins and
Abercrombie two. *

With all the question marks‘ 9J.r- ,
rounding this year’s team, both could '
be key to the Generals success, not t
only at the tournament, but throughout 4
the season.

)

Enjoy the holidays and have ahappy
. ,

New Year!

$$$$, FREE TRAVEL, AND
RESUME EXPERIENCEII
Individuals and Student Oiganimrions
wanted to promote SPRING BREAK,
call the nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013

  

NOT!-2 Mastercerd is I registered tndennrii d Mmteroud lntemauorll. Int;
Visa is I registered tndermrk oi'VlSA USA. Inc. and VISA Inbmational

Senna Aseoeidion.

100°/it GUARANTEED!

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 17921l.PI_ANTATI0N.FL 33518 :
I  IwantVlSA@/MASTERCARD®_ Credit I
Cards. Enclosed Ilnd S5 which is 100% refundable if not I
approved immediately. I
I

NAME ’ I
ADDRESS :
CITY STATE ._ ZIP I
PHONE s.s.# :
SIGNATURE I
I

I

I

.'

SPRINGBREAKERS. 1.
Promote our Florida Spring

Break packages. Earn MONEY .
and FREE trips. Organize

SMALL or LARGE groups ,

 
  

   

W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop fr
your next ha/rout. We have experienced Barbers.

ideal Barber Shop
22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below FirstAmerican Bank

    
    
      

M n -42-2

 

I I
ciudiotronics

AUDIO - VIDEO ~ CAR STEREO
DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARANTZ
KEF cwo 4
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

' SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM
' BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

‘ CAR INSTAL' ATION DEPARTMENT

' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS .
‘ MASTER CARD I VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-66670 .

Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Corner of Ogden 8:. Starkey Roads ' ~
{  ‘

 

 

 

we umvsasmj L%f3RARY ;.,.
WASHINGTON & LE5; u.\'lVER$l’fY

“W ”'z¥"i3’3“35°

lit ‘ilting-tum Iﬂlii

VOLUME 92, NO. 13

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

ACrul cracks down on keg part

it

‘The new ABC regulation makes it a crime to purchase a keg from which minors will be drinking.

MTV dumps
Rock-a-Like

Share, a similar organizatie r..

Photo by Malloi'y‘Meyers, e Fling-rum Ph

By LEIGH ALLEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee students
who purchase kegs for parties
where minors are drinking could
end up in jail under a new Vir-
ginia ABC regulation that goes
into effect Jan. 13.

Virginia Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board Officer Roger
Stevens said the new regulation
obligates anyone buying a keg at
a retail outlet to register the keg
and give the address where the
keg will be tapped.

The purchaser must fill out a
‘ ‘keg registration, declaration and
receipt” which includes a state-
ment that he is at least 21 and that
no minors will be allowed to drink
from the keg.

“Should we come to a party
and find a keg and underage
drinkers,” Stevens said, ‘ ‘wewill
have the name of the purchaser
and they can be charged” with
contributing to the delinquency
of a minor. That crime, a misde-

meanor, carries a punishment of
up to a $2,500 ﬁne and one year
in jail.

Stevens said the new regula-
tion will allow ABC ofﬁcers to
locate parties whereminors might
be drinking.

“We can check keg registra-
tion lists and see if there is a large
number of kegs going toacertain
fraternity,’ ’ he said.

East Lex owner Jim Bowen
said he does not believe the law
will affect the way W&L stu-
dents purchase beer. The regula-
tion, Bowen said, will mainly be
used by police to trace kegs at
parties attended by teens.

“I think they’re trying to tar-
gethigh schoolers,” Bowen said.
“I can’t say that it’s going to
have much of an effect on stu-
dents.’ ’

But Stevens said anyone who
buys a keg under the new regula-
tion is responsible for making
sure that no minors are served.

EC President Josh
MacFarland said the new regu-
lation brings up the remote pos-

JANUARY 7, 1993

ies

sibility of an honor violation for
students who make a keg avail-
able to minors after signing a
pledge that they will not. But
MacFarland said he would be
‘ ‘very hesitant’ ’ to kick a student
out of school for failing to com-
ply with the regulation.

‘ ‘In general, I would hesitate
to say what is and what is not an
honor violation without looking
at a speciﬁc case,” MacFarland
said.

The Associated Press reported
Monday that a squad of specially
trained officers in Virginia Beach
was formed to respond to com-
plaints of under-age drinking.
The squad busted 10 parties in
the Virginia Beach area over the
recent holiday season.

LillianDeVenny, head of Vir-
ginians Opposing Drunk Driv-
ing, said she is excited about the
new regulation.

‘ ‘It certainly should put a big
dent in those notorious keg par-
ties," DeVenny said.

TheAssociatedPres.r contrib-
uted to this story.

Students
shun’93

0 By JUSTIN MACNAWL
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s na-
tional lip sync dynastyhas ended.
After crowning two W&L
 piOnS in the last three years,
V has withdrawn its sponsor-
ship of the national Students
Against Multiple Sclerosis
(SAMS) Rock-a-Like contest.

2' But the beat will go on at
W&L under adifferentnarne and
serving an additional cause.

ffhe lack of sponsorship pro-
vided an opportunity for SAMS
sponsor Jerry Darrell and chair-
men Ashley Myler and Elise
Hagensen to expand their focus.
Concerned about the eco-

' nomic plight of Rockbridge
Cdinty res_idents following re-

. cent plant closings, Darrell sug-
gested that the lip sync proceeds
be split between SAMS and the

. Rockbridge Area Relief Asso-
ciation.
The first annual SAMS/

I R.§RA lip sync contest will be
Friday, Jan. 22 at 9 p.m. in the
pavilion, Darrell said.

I Darrell said he estimates that
half of the contest’s proceeds will

' beneﬁt RARA and Community

Sophomore
drops case
against cadet

Nearly 700 people ﬁlled the
Pavilion for last year’s contest,
won by five Sigma Phi Epsilon
pledges gyrating to Right Said
Fred’s “I'm Too Sexy.” The
pledges later won MT V’s na-
tional competition in Daytona
Beach, Fla.

In 1990, three Phi Gamma
Delta members won the national
contest for their performance of
“Jungle Love.”

I ‘ “Darrell said last year’s con-

test raised $3,215 to fight mul-
tiple sclerosis, a disease affect-
ing the nervous system.

The lip sync contest started
seven years ago in the Generals
Headquarters, but moved to the
Pavilion in 1990 to hold the large
crowds. MTV also began spon-
sorship in 1990. The move and
MTV affiliation helped SAMS
double the amount of money it
raised.

Most acts are fraternity and
sorority pledge classes, but
Darrell said he hopes to expand
the variety of performers.

“We want to see more faculty
acts,” Darrell said. He said per-
formances by professors and ath-
letes would draw an even larger
crowd and raise more money.

‘Sorority activeswehearse a musicalpresentation to enticegrjushees. ..

yearbook

    

hot by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tum Phi

Women anticipate Flush week

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

While sorority actives excitedly pre-
pare for Rush to begin, freshman women
are still hesitant about the week which
could change their college careers.

“No one really wants to be that fake
for four days in a row,” a freshman
woman said. “But there must be some
reason why girls go through Rush.”

On Friday, 154 freshmen and 17
upper—class women will begin four
nights of Rush functions with an infor-
mal Open House. After Sunday’s Skit
Night, each sorority selects rushees to

invite back to Tuesday’s Sisterhood
Night, after which another cut is made.

When the ﬁnal party is over on Thurs-
day night, Eubanks said rushees and
sororities choose each other in a “mu-
tuallyniatching process.” Bids are given
out Friday afternoon.

Some freshman women said that
though Rush is one way to meet upper-
class women, they don’t see how sorori-
ties fit into life at Washington and Lee.

“Since they don’t have houses, [so-
rorities] don’t seem to do anything,” a
freshman said. “I’m not really into all
that sisterhood and sing-songy sniff. I
think it’s kind of silly.”

But sorority members say Rush is

By GREGORY PATTERSON

more than silly songs and superﬁcial
conversations.

“ [Rush] is definitely a really busy
and fun time,” a sorority president said.
“Since we don’t have houses, [Rush]
brings all the sororities together.”

Contact between sorority actives and
rushees is prohibited this weekend,
which distresses rushees who can’t par-
take in the traditional W&L social scene.
But though rushees are unsure about the
week to come, most agree with sorority
members that the possibilities for friend-
ships outweigh the inconveniences.

“We’re encouraging everyone to just
go and have fun and meet as many
people as they can,” Eubanks said.

Phi News Editor

A‘ Criminal charges against a VMI cadet accused
’ of assaulting a W&L junior in an October fight
‘ were reduced and then dismissed in Lexington

is General District Court.

is

9-

;

A

. -

On Dec. 8, Judge Robert S. Culpepper dis-
missed assault and battery charges against Virginia
Military Institute cadet Todd Washington. The
charges stemmed from an Oct. 8 ﬁght at Phi Delta
Tfieta in which Phi Delt member Joshua Helton had
two teeth knocked out.

Helton said Tuesday he agreed to drop the
felony malicious wounding charges against Wash-
in gton, but would not say why.

Helton was injured in the second of two fights
involving students and cadets on the same night.
Washington was arrested Oct. 26 after Helton ﬁled
a complaint stating that Washington “struck me at
least twice and knocked out two of my teeth.”

Washington was released on recognizance with

the stipulation that he would have no contact with A

’ Helton and would not go to the Phi Delt house.

Washington had not returned to Lexington from
Ciristmas break on Wednesday and could not be
reached at his home in Trafford, Pa. Washington’s

-an

.-

‘-

-~ lawyer, G. Marshall Mundy of Roanoke, would not
comment on the case.

In response to a series of fights between W&L
students and cadets, VMI Commandant Mike Bissell
told the Interfratemity Council Tuesday that he
biped to avoid further incidents but he told frater-
nity officers what to do in case they do have
problems with cadets.

Bissell said anyone can call the officer in charge
at VMI at 464-7336 anytime day or night. He said
the officer, who is not a cadet, will respond to any
reports of cadets misbehaving by coming to the

ene and returning the cadets to VMI.

Bissell also said he would personally respond to
any complaints that the ofﬁcer in charge could not
handle. He gave the fraternity members his number
at home, 464-5181.

I
I

By RANSOM J AMES
Phi Contributing Writer

Just a third of undergraduates will appear in
this year’s Calyx, about 200 people less than two
years ago.

Calyx editor Anthony Catalano is searching
for a solution to the decrease in undergraduates
appearing in the Calyx, from 581 in 1991 to 510
' in 1992. This year, Catalano said about 400
people signed up to have their picture taken. He
said it was possible that fewer people signed up
because of an increase in the fee from $1 2 to $15.

Catalano said the additional money will be
used to improve the quality of the book and add
a more expensive cover. But Catalano said some
students believe it is not worth the extra money
to have their picture in the Calyx.

“Irealize the problem withthe fee,’ ’ Catalano
said. “I’m in the process of coming up with a
solution for next year.”

Catalano said he is considering two ideas he
hopes will allow more students to appear in the
Calyx: allowing students to bill the fee to their
parents rather than paying for it in the matricula-
tion line and asking the Executive Committee to
request a raise in the student activities fee to pay
for every student’s picture.

In an effort to get more people in this year’s
annual, Catalano said students can still have their
picture taken Monday, Jan. 11.

Man asks W&L women for panty hose

gave him some old panty hose,” Kauffman said.
“He came a few times after that but we told her not
to give him anything.”

Van Vliet said that “Parity Hose Man,” as he is
called on campus, was discussed at a meeting of
her sorority. Van Vliet said her sorority’s resident
consultant, Lauren Gross, warned the women about
the man and said he had come to her Lee Avenue
apartment eight times.

The Lexington police are withholding com-
plaints ﬁled against Panty Hose Man pending an
investigation to determine whether he has commit-
ted a crime but Lexington Police Chief Bruce M.
Beard said police think they know Panty Hose
Man’s identity.

“We’re constantly observing the gentleman,”
he said.

Beard said anyone who is visited by Panty Hose
Man should contact police.

“We have a sticky situation here,” Beard said.
“He has not yet committed a crime to our knowl-
edge.” '

Will reschedules address,
to speak on Founders’ Day

tional honorary fraternity which
will induct 27 students during
the Convocation, will tap Will as
an honorary member. ODK was

Other honorary initiates will
include John F. Wolfe, ’65, who
is president and publisher of The
Dispatch Printing Company in
Columbus, Ohio; Randall P.
Bezanson, dean of the W&L law
school; and W&L art history pro-

Founders’ Day is celebrated
each year on Jan.l9, Robert E.

I I
Fraternity H  p
° - IIIEIII
Fall Term
Rep ort Card
(figures include pledges and active members) 
W&L women are being visited by a young man
Beta §’§‘§’§’§’§’§ 2768' who goes from door to door asking for their panty
ChlO §%r§.§.§,§.§r§r§.§t§.§§§>§»§>§s§§§>§s 3.226 hose, though it might be for a good cause.

.. Jk'V V1‘ W&L h hl'
Cm PSI §%§‘§’§§‘§’§§’§‘§§ 2332 on 1\2gCl((:rk1:nDﬁi/:5 saaid a yoiiiipg ritraizrlgrivdclgedvgri
Fiji §§§ « 2630 her door in November. When she answered the

door, the man asked her if she could spare some
KA §>°§>§>§§>§§§5§*§§>Q§*§=§%§§>§‘¢ 3-1 39 black socks or panty hose. She said she refused and
Kappa eeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeese 3.262 Illeflan Polltely thank_<=d lger and W_a1ke<_i away-

_ He looks like a child,’ Van Vliet said, “about
KSig eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 3.040 junior high age_”

LCA §i§‘§’§§§§§§§§§§%%§i§i( 3'1 01 inci\(]l:ilit‘ii)l e<E.ai2luf‘li<E.hEe(irli(iirgttoiihl;I)1<})(l iiréoiiiiooiiaii/1:
PIIIDGII %§§§§.§.§§.§‘ 2.841 received a number of complaints about the man.

- , Sophomore Ashlie Kauffman said that when the
Ph'Kapp %§‘§§’ 2676 man visited her house on North Randolph Street, he
PhiPsi §§§§§§§§§§€ 2.878 said was wfas using titre panty hose tof make dolls.

. ‘ ' ti ,
PiBeta eeteeeeeteeeeseeee 3.050 " "“ "“° ° °“"‘° °““ ° my ’°°“““°S
PiKA Qeeeeeeeeeeé 2.912
PiPhi §§s§§§§§s§§ 2.828
SAE Qeeeeeeeeeeee 2.950
SigChi %.§§§e&.%§.- 2.807
Sig Ep eeeeseeeeeeee 2.955
SNU §§>§>§§§>' 2-742 From the W&L News Office
Theta eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 3.207 Colummstand author George
Will will be the special guest
speakeratW&L’sFounders’Day founded at W&L in 1914.
Convocation on Jan. 19.
. W‘11 h d 1 d ak
Fratemlty Men 2874 at Openiii:sCs(i:n\?o;1aiiori(iriSIS‘::p-
Non-F,-atemjty Men 2395 tember but cancelled his appear-
, ance because of travel problems.
 Women    whose column appears
_ - , in 470 newspapers across the
Non Fraternity women 3123 United States including The fessor Pamela Simpson.
All Students 2.983 Ring-tum Phi, will speak in Lee
Chapel at 11:30 a.m.
Omicron Delta Kappa, a na- 1-655 bi1'1hdaY~

 

 

"A‘A“-I‘b‘A'A‘A‘O'.A‘J A AA A n n I 0 1 5 u I I I L n I

 

PAGE 2

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

Mickey Mouse: tan,
rested and ready

The Executive Committee followed student governments of past
years off the plank Monday, leaping into the supra-constitutional realm
of scheduling class elections.

Election scheduling is a perennial headache for the EC. The student
constitution sets Big Three elections on the 10th Monday of winter term
and general elections on the 12th Monday, unless those dates conﬂict
with the “school schedule.” If there is a conflict, such as law school break,
the EC may move the elections with a two-thirds affirmative vote.

But last year the EC abused the constitution’s ﬂexibility by moving
Big Three elections to the week before February break, and this year’s
EC followed suit. The constitution mandates that elections be advertised
in The Ring-tum Phi every week in February; obviously, the constitution
writers intended that elections occur in March.

The scheduling scheme of the constitution is not arbitrary. Holding
elections too early discourages students from getting involved. With
elections falling so early in winter term, many students might not have
time to consider candidacy and prepare for a campaign adequately.

Last year’s Feb. 10 election is a case in point. EC President Josh
MacFarland’s topchallengers were two write-in candidates: BJ . League,
then a senior, and Mickey Mouse, who was not even a student. Both
League and Mouse entered the race primarily to make a point about the
poor scheduling that resulted in an uncontested presidency.

But MacFarland and the EC plan to repeat last year’s mistake. The
committee voted 7-2 to move Big Three elections to early February:
Agelasto, Hackney, Hutton, Johnson, Kull, Pierce and Tompkins for;
Moseley and Stewart against.

There is a precedent for this move, albeit unconstitutional. In the fall
of 1990-91, the EC endorsed constitutional revisions, one of which
would have made election scheduling more ﬂexible. We do not endorse
that revision, as it would permit elections on any week before the 10th,
and it would set the Big Three elections before February break. All the
revisions failed because too few students voted in the referendum;
ironically, the low turnout was attributable to poor scheduling.

To prevent a repeat of last year’s disastrous farce of a presidential
election, the EC must conform to the constitution and advance the Big
Three election to March 8. The only rationale the EC has for not holding
elections on March 8 is that FD is the weekend prior. But during the
constitutional revisions procedures three years ago, then-VRB Chair-
man Wes Goings told the revisions committee that election turnout
actually increased when elections were held on the Monday after FD.

Speaking of constitutional revisions, the constitution makes no men-
tion of a general election for Student Conduct Committee president.
While the revised SCC constitution and procedures agreed on last year
by faculty and students have improved the SCC and strengthened student
autonomy, these changes must be incorporated into the constitution to be

.  . '

QIWQEQ shpuldiadopta eonstitutfofialirevisiionéformallychanging the
Big T'hr,ee,to the Big-Foiir, ands-send;thatii‘evision‘tqitrefereritlurn
simultaneously with the election, ‘thus 'en§1i'r'in‘g'"hi'gh tu:r’nou't.iWhile
they’re at it, they might consider revising the constitution to legalize
some other unconstitutional practices, such as closing EC doors for
IIIKCTVICWS.

White Book rules

We hope everyone has taken the time to read the My View on this
page, which was written by the mother of a student dismissed in a student
body hearing last spring. In normal circumstances, The Ring-tum Phi
follows White Book guidelines in disclosing no information on honor
proceedings, because we have a sizable readership outside the student
body. In this case, however, we consulted EC President Josh MacFarland,
who agreed that the student body might benefit from reading Ms.
McCord’s opinions in the Phi unedited.

Quote ofthe Week

It's the only way I know what day it is.
— a W&L junior expressing her preference for birth control pills
organized by day of the week

How dumb do you think I am?
— Associate Dean of Students Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, asking a
presumably rhetorical question

("I112 iﬁittg-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

  
  

  
 

v

The Ring-tum Phl, January  1993

H99/(3 Fort. ﬁt!‘
ea Rte-1.57‘/{Ii ’
LAW, LESSON ONE: _.
MAKE if HAKP F55 Tilt-: f%:;t<-.2
Tl’ Pit’ ‘DOW THE LOcA'l701~/

of‘)/oU}z_ Kga. -

Honor System cries for review

MY VIEW
By Suzanne McCord

When I read your editorial entitled “Leave Honor
to the Students,” I felt compelled to clarify the
misconceptions alluded to in this article. I think this
article would have been more accurately classified
as a gossip column, butl will attempt to clarify what
pertains directly to my child, who was dismissed for
an alleged honor violation last May, and to my
family. I cannot, however, speak for the Board of
Trustees or the EC on matters directly evolving from
their meetings where I was not present. I will begin
by quoting the false statement and giving you the
true facts to the best of my knowledge.

1. Fallacy: “According to several students, many
alumni in the dismissed student’s home state were
also contacted and asked to participate in an effort to
have her conviction reversed and to have her rein-
stated at the university.”

Fact: We, as a family, were terribly disturbed
and frustrated by the apparent injustice in our
daughter’s case, but the outpouring of concern from
friends and W&L associates, who were equally
astounded by the verdict, triggered an in-depth re-
search project on legal pro-

rights of the accused and accepting the responsibili-
ties of the prosecution. Be careful not to create an
overzealous reaction of “threat to student autonomy”
when the input of all those affected by the system
combined with the fresh contemporary ideas of the
students would only serve to strengthen through
education and debate the system governed by the
students.

4. Fallacy: Another inference in the article is that
my daughter would utilize her father’s association
with the school to facilitate her return to the W&L
classroom.

Fact: This could not be further from the truth!
Even if she were considering returning to W&L, and
she is not, she would only return with the blessing of
the student body. Your article is correct when you
refer to the dismissed student's father being a mem-
ber of the Alumni Board. Her father has had a deep
sense of gratitude and devotion to W&L since his
graduation in 1963 and has been an active participant
in many alumni affairs benefiting the school. He has
many friends in the W&L community and has natu-
rally had communication with many of these friends
as a result of the sadness surrounding our daughter’s
dismissal.

It is with sincere hopefulness and enthusiasm that
I embrace the idea of a public

cedures in our country and a
comparative study of honor
codes at other universities.
Without exception, we
found W&L’s Honor Sys-
tem to have more procedural
deﬁciencies as well as being
more inconsistent‘ly'admin--

I feel the EC by itself is not
capable of an objective review
of a system which they have
been charged to defend so ve-
hementlygbut should have the

debate on matters of concern
in the Honor System every-
one supports and would like
to see function with maxi-
mum effectiveness, virtue
and fairness. As I reflect on
many of the letters we re-

.» ~frorri»other universities we

istered than anyothér‘siiigle *  3 public:‘deb“_ite- -_
I sanction s stem."‘We“also  -  ,,._ 1'5 .
found W& ’s' Honor System to be the most punitive

7 t

of any other system, including the military acad-
emies where soldiers are trained in the most strin-
gent disciplinary matters to prepare them for life-
threatening situations. We responded to all the people
who had expressed concern for our child’s case or
who had a specific connection to us in W&L affairs
by sending them a copy of our research, and to avoid
minor, we explained all the specifics in our child’s
case. While we were interested in and sincerely
appreciated everyone’s special condolences and well-
founded opinions, we subsequently encouraged any
further input to be communicated directly to the
school to raise the awareness of the discrepancies in
the Honor System.

2. Fallacy: “And there is a third story, which says
administrators, and possibly the Board of Trustees,
discussed allowing the dismissed student back at
W&L to audit courses unofficially.”

Fact: I have no knowledge of a discussion of this
nature in the Board of Trustees meeting, but I can
enlighten your readers on my child’s position on this
subject as well as any request we might have made
in our letter to the school. While my daughter was
very happy and devoted to W&L last year and
remains close to her many dear friends at the school,
she has no intention of returning to the university
and certainly would not be interested in merely
auditing classes. In fact, the brutality of the dis-
missal has regretfully made it too painful even to
return to be with many special friends whom she
would delight in seeing.

When we submitted our honor code research to
the President of the university and the Board of
Tmstees, we requested a review of my daughter’s
case based on numerous inequities we feel exist.
Each of these grievances was substantiated in our
letter and the request was made based on Section III,
Paragraph “N” of the White Book stating that a
hearing may be reopened to prevent injustices. We
were cordially informed by the Board of Trustees in
a letter that our request and honor code research had
been passed along to the Executive Committee where
it was determined we had no grounds for an appeal.
Actually, we could never imagine the prosecuting
committee rmamg any reason to reopen a case triey
had already painstakingly litigated with success.
Therefore, this was merely an exercise in futility. I
agree with the statement in the article which read,
“Likewise, once a case goes to open hearing, it
should never be re-adjudicated in a less-than-open
hearing room.”

3. Fallacy: The article inferred that there was a
movement threatening student control of the Honor
System.

Fact: We are simply advocating the most thor-
ough and professional review of the system, not
stripping the power of enforcement of the Honor
System from the students. All systems require ex-
amination from time to time, and my daughter’s case
has emphasized that need at W&L. I feel the EC by
itself is not capable of an objective review of a
system which they have been charged to defend so
vehemently but should have the benefit of a public
debate. In this respect lagree with your article when
you write, “The future of the Honor System should
never be discussed behind doors closed to all stu-
dents.” My only apparent difference in concept on
“open discussion” is who is “allowed” to voice an
opinion.‘ I believe the review would beneﬁt tremen-
dously from the sentiments of the entire W&L
community (students, professors, alumni, parents,
administrators, etc). Some very vital suggestions
and ideas could come from the experience of those
who have dealt with judicial matters outside the
university and who are familiar with protecting the

i-~:"-- w - . — :read,”th’ere are ﬁveipoints
which‘repeatedly surfaced, and I hope ’will be ad-
dressed in this debate.

1. Intent— A student should not be afraid of
unintentionally or unknowingly committing an honor
violation in a system which is touted for creating a
community of mutual trust.

2. Dismissal (versus withdrawal after closed hear-
ing)-— A student should not be more severely pun-
ished for exercising the right to an appeal. We could
not ﬁnd a judicial system in this country which has a
stiffer penalty for conviction in the appellate process
than it has for the original verdict. The students who
are unjustly penalized by this rule are those who
believe strongly in their innocence or who have a
marginal offense, not the blatant cheater.

3. Voting Investigators— The EC investigators
of an alleged violation should not be allowed to
prosecute the case, sit in judgment, deliberate the
verdict, and then vote on the verdict. This could
create a bias and severely hamper the rights of the
accused.

4. Tattletale Policy—'Ihe accuser should have to
confront the accused for his/her explanation of what
happened. We received two suggestions if this con-
frontation is impossible: 1) A mediation group should
be formed with the professor involved and other
relevant parties to discuss and try to understand and
resolve the differences before reporting the offense to
the EC; 2) Perhaps the offense should be reported to
the professor, and the professor should decide if it is
a reportable incident.

5. Unanimous Jury Vote— The student jury in
the open trial should be required to have a unanimous
vote to convict like all other judicial systems in our
country.

The focus of our criticism of W&L’s Honor Sys-
tem is the procedural inequities which deny the
accused student a fair and impartial hearing. As it is
currently written, the Honor System unfairly restricts
and even intimidates the accused student. All five of
these inequities should be of great concem to the
W&L student body. Frankly, I am appalled that a
public hearing could take place on such a question-
able offense, a dedicated and respected student could
be ostracized by her peers. and it would take this long
to raise any public awareness, controversy, or ae Date.
This makes me believe there is a tremendous insen-
sitivity in the student body to the far-reaching effects
and hurt of the damaging blows they are inflicting. I
am equally as astonished by the number of people in

I

just the opposite of this intended spirit. In other
words, an innocent or unsuspecting honorable stu-
dent is more likely to be trapped by the system

the devious cheater who has refined the skills of 4
covering his tracks. This is creating a community of
fear, not a community of trust. This should be of
concern to all students, and public debate should
serve to educate everyone in this community of these
serious pitfalls in a doctrine they revere uncondition- r
ally without questioning the lack of protectionlor
each worthy student. ”

Each member of our family is a strong proponent ,

of a well-implemented Honor System, and my daugh-
ter was and still is an advocate of the Honor System ‘
at W&L. However, fairness through education and
administration is of utmost concern to us after this -
devastating experience. If you consider some ofthe
offenses which could be interpreted as an honor
violation under the present system, a student could
have a life-altering experience for such simple acts as
borrowing without proper permission or signing a
pledge after writing a paper on a book you read when
indeed you skimmed part of the book and did not read _
every word. If everyone at W&L was put underﬁhe ‘

same scrutiny as my daughter, Ithink it would be safe 1 ’

to say you would have a very small student body. .
When there are so many serious problems on our
college campuses, many of which are against the laws
of our nation, such as rape, drugs, underage drinking,
drunk driving, cheating and stealing, and disrespect
for property, it seems unfortunate to focus such w th
on a student like my child who loved the school, was
a contributor in many aspects of campus life, was an
advocate of the Honor System, a dedicated student,

~ ~cei-ved,-and the--h0nO#»cedeS~1l-andaperstmof notable integrity. :1 don’t,think:'this is

the type of?person.the:system isdesigned toimpugn.

In retrospect, ,it_has been a very painful and soul-
searching experience for our entire family: While I
understand in much greater detail than I ever thou'ght
possible the Honor System at Washington and Lee, I
have an even stronger commitment to my daughter as
an honorable individual, and I understand and feel a
deeper sense of compassion in my heart for her as she
has been forced to examine her own integrity and deal
with this public humiliation which I feel she never
deserved. I know she made an “error in judgmait,’
but she had no intention of deceit. These are the kin oi
of mistakes we, as human beings, make every day 0 '
our lives. A question was posed to one of the profes
sors in the open trial to the effect of, “Do you ever sa r
you have done something when you have not done
it?” He replied with a chuckle, “Of course, we all d o
that.” Unfortunately, the jury was left with the ina
impression of the blazing accusations of the E I
prosecutor when he stood in closing, pointing hi
finger at my child, calling her by name, and exclaim .
ing in a repugnant tone of voice, she is a liar. This 5
a “dagger” which has been very difficult to remov
from all our hearts, and I still question, “Is this hono
system which is so revered at W&L the same hbno
system which gives this EC member the license t
make such incriminating and erroneous accusation.
to the entire student body?” Is this honorable behav ’
ior in itself? Do these prosecuting students stop t v
think about the damage they inﬂict by “dismissing” a
student when the outside world treats this label as .
act with a connotation resembling that of a hardgned
criminal. These are all questions I would like to seé
addressed in a public review of the system, an n
hopefully, provoking changes in the-doctrine to pro-
vide safeguards to prevent another tragedy such .
my daughter’s, where the punishment does not fit th
crime.

I sincerely hope the apparent indifference oigth -,
Washington and Lee campus does not prevent furthe
student investigation and debate on the many disput-
able aspects of the code which we discovered as ai
result of my daughter’s incomprehensible dismissal.
As a matter of reference, we found the UVa honor
code to be most closely akin to the W&L code, bein ;
a student operated system with a single sanction. Th -.
defining document at UVa is very well drawn with
specific language of what constitutes an honor viola-,
tion. UVa’s system has built-in safeguards to prevent
minor infractions from being brought to tria1~and to’
give the accused an unbiased chance for defense. The,
administration of the UVa code involves many more

the W&L community (students, pro- —-——?——————— people than one executive commit-'
fessors, administrators, alumni, par- I know she made an tee or governing body inclulﬂng,
ents, and even the professor directly “ - - ,, honor counselors, honor advisors,
involved in our case) who have re- error 'nJudgn_‘ent9 and mediation groups, and the pro-’
marked to us that they never truly but she had 110 inten- cedures for this administration -—-

understood all the implications of the
system they hailed as the “W&L gos-
pel.” I hope a thorough examination
of the Honor System and its implica-
tions through public debate will serve
to raise the awareness of everyone
affected by the system and prevent
this tragedy from occurring with an-
other naive, well—meaning student.

I was pleased to read your reference to the “spirit
of the white book” which I feel should be reclaimed
by the W&L student body. There is no question that
the “letter of the law” was enforced in my daughter’s
case, but the “spirit of the law” was never broached.
As Iunderstand it, the spirit of the law was to create
a community of mutual trust protecting all the honor-
able members of that community from the deceitful
acts of lying, cheating, and stealing. By virtue of
several ill-defined areas addressed in the W&L Honor
System and the general lack of protection of the rights
of the accused, the code as it stands now generates

tion of deceit. These
are the kind of mis-
takes we, as human
‘beings, make every
day of our lives.

very explicit. We have spent a great
deal of time and effort on this projec '
and would be glad to share any 0
our documentation with those Oh
are interested. Do not misinterpre
our objectives, for we are not tryin ;.
to cast blame in our daughters case
have her re-instated in your univer
sity, demolish the single sanction system, or threate
student autonomy, but we are questioning the system
and trying to inspire some much needed changea t
give the accused a fair chance to defend themselves.
We feel very strongly that just because a doctrine has
been in place for 200 years does not mean it is totally
without ﬂaw. I challenge the complacency of W&L
and charge each of you with the responsibility of
examining and debating the imperfections in a dogma
everyone at W&L sanctifies but few truly under-‘
stand. ’ " *

Suzanne McCord is the mother of a student dis-
missed after an open honor trial last spring.

 

, Spos reveals Ernest and J

“Mad Dog” —— there is none. Before
Christmas break, during an alcoholic

if

)9»

 

The Ring-tum Phl, January 7, 1993

,Si=os’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

qwertyuiop — Oh, excuse me, just
testing out the new word processor
Spos received for Christmas this year.
A rather nice model. Spos must thank
‘his loving parental units for such a
useful gift, as this new word processor
will greatly facilitate my dishing out
vital information to my thousands of
admiring fans.

Anyway, this column has a lot of
objectives and is sure to be long-
winded, so I will get off this power trip
and get on with the show.

UPDATE #1 -—The Larry Skipper
thing is beginning to get just a bit out of
hand. Spos has before him a fax trans-
mission, deliveredbythe folks atlntra-
campus mail, that shows that followers
of this Skipper fellow are completely

Qderanged. The fax reads: “Please for-
ward to Tom I-lespos. The Ring-tum
Phi. He'll understand.” What follows
can only be described as incomprehen-
sible garbage: “Larry. Larry. l l-0V8
Larry.'I;al'|’y. Larry. Larry. Be wary of

.Larry.. _ _ . ,
Not to be critical of our nation s
mental health facilities or anything.

but how did this guy manage to get to
a fax machine after escaping his pad-

ded cell?

Spos has also received several cor-
respondences from followers of Mr.
Skipper, including envelopes mailed

interlude between exams, Spos and his

fratemity brothers had the pleasure of
sampling Mad Dog's newest ﬂavor,
Banana Red. After sampling the fine

OPINION

uIio’s secret

from hotels beverage, made
around the coun- in Spos’ home
try,containingtoi- It seems that Gallo, a state of New
letpaper.(Getit?) com an  tel '1“ York, we came
Further research I) p  a al bslto to the conclu-
indicates that e Sernbrespecta es sionthatitlooks
larryskiigper is a has cornered the cheap like cherry 
K“l’l’; .s‘i§m‘,',§“° wine market You learn C'b“““f.‘°‘“‘°
recen yjo e _ ' banana iqueur.
ranks of the something every day. Imagine the
alurririi.Whatis II   you know prank p0SSibiil-
aw" ms guy? we’ll find out that Alice ﬁes:
We may never
know. Cooper played the part Joe Frat:
UPDATE #2 - - Hey Frank.
_The VMI SW of Big I,3,ird on “Sesame Have some
at.ion.'I'hewaveof Street. cherry Hi-C.
death threats has [offers Frank a
finally subsided. glass of Banana

Spos no longer gets crank calls at four
inthe morning. I.et’s just say that Uncle
Vito had a busy Christmas break and
leave it at that, shall we?

UPDATE #3 — The inescapable
mystique and savoir-faire surrounding
20/20 wine, commonly referred to as

To the Editor:

I am writing to inform mem- tomato?”
bers of the university cornmu- Student: (a little irritated)
llity of problems that exist in the “Yes.”

Snack Bar. Because of the over-
crowded conditions at the Snack
Bar, we have allowed our pa-

trons,contrarytostandard indus- Cashier: “Are you having
trypractices,topay for their food fries?”
before they actually receive it. I Student: “No.”

.am confident that in no other Cashier: “Thank you,” and
self-service operation, anywhere, rings up the sale.
would you be allowed to order This exerciseis fnistratingfor
your food, go to the cashier and both the cashier and the student
inform her, sight unseen, what andis certainly time consuming,
you have ordered and have that backing up the line. However,

cashier honor your word as to
what you ordered. (You pay in

get. Are you having lettuce and

Cashier: “That's extra,” (and
rings it up). “What size Pepsi?”
Student: “Large.”

the alternative (the standard ac-
cepted procedure), which we

LETTERS

Director warns of H Vs at Co-op

that they had forgotten their
money, tell her what they re-
ceived and give their name.

We have the impression now
that some students genuinely do
not believe they have to have
money when they come to the
Snack Bar. Because of the Honor
System they believe that they
can take their food and leave and
come back and pay at some time
convenient to them. This is not
the policy. Our liberal policy is
being abused entirely too often.

The policy is this: Any person
wishing to make a purchase in
the Snack Bar must pay for his]
her food then and there. When a

Red Mad Dog]

Frank the Pledge: Okay. [Dririks.
Vomits on the house mother's shoes.
Frat brothers have a good laugh.]

One question plagued Spos’ usu-
ally clear mind during his late-night

encounter with the beastly beverage:
Where does Mad Dog come from?

After some brilliant investigative
work, which incidentally consisted of
visiting two New York liquor stores
and consulting the proprietors, Spos
managed to get the truth. In the pro-
cess, Spos managed to uncover the
most embarrassing scandal since
Watergate.

As it turns out, the 20/20 Wine Co.,‘
which makes Mad Dog, is owned by
Gallo Wines. No wait, the best is yet to
come. Not only does Gallo produce
Mad Dog, but it also produces some of
Mad Dog's cousins: Night Train,
Thunderbird, Lighming Creek, you
name it. It seems that Gallo, acompany
that claims to be semi-respectable, has
cornered the cheap wine market. You
learn something every day. Next thing
you know, we’ll find out that Alice
Cooper played the part of Big Bird on
“Sesame Street.”

Despite Mad Dog's “wino” image,
Spos would suggest that you at least
sample the new addition to the Mad
Dog family. Of course, don’t blame me

V if you end up in the dumpster behind

Stop-Iii, talking to yourself. It is an
unfortunate side-effect of prolonged
Mad Dog exposure.

advance at McDonalds; however, probablyshould be doing, would situation occurs when a member
the cashier who takes your order cause even more of a backup, of the W&L community finds
and your cash is the same person only it would be at the sandwich that, upon approaching the cash- anonymously.
who delivers your food.) This board. rather than the cash regis- ier, he/she does not have lii_s/her
deviationfrom standard business ter. . . . wallet/money. he/she may. leave
practice is made possible by our , The ‘ 9 problem of their name with the cashier along
Honor System. overcrowdedriess and long lines with the arnountof purchase. The

Two problems currently ex-
ist. Entirely too many students
come to the cashier and require
her, ironically, to the chagrin of
some students, to engage in
“twenty questions.” consider the

would be compounded. We will
try to avoid this; however, stu-
dents must do a better job of
informing the cashier of all items
that require extra charge.
The second item is of an even

person must then return within
24 hours to settle the account.

At no time should anyone

walk out of the Snack Bar “with-

B out paying.” That is an abuse of

the Honor System. I invite any-

Sincerely,

Student: editorial
was irresponsible

To the Editor:

You were terribly irresponsible to publishthe“Stock-
ing stuffers” editorial in the Dec. 3 issue. Though pre-
sumably an effort at humor, the piece was bigoted,
malicious, and misinformed.

The author’s reference to “the Hanukkah bunny”
shows a blatant disregard for the Jewish tradition. I
personally found it offensive, and I was horrified to think
that Jewish students and professors would see their
religion mocked in the university’s newspaper.

There is simply no excuse for the editorial’s cynicism
thinly disguised as “gifts.” University administrators
and local ofﬁcials aside, why was the author compelled
to make petty attacks on the members of the Executive
Committee? These representatives serve Washington
and Lee openly and diligently. It is all too easy, and
immature, for the author to criticize his schoolmates

Finally, the author may characterize Lexington as a
“sea of prosperity,” but the fact remains that the town is
situated in Virginia's poorest county. Please realize that
The Ring-tum Phi represents all of the Washington and
Lee community. In this “season of giving,” don’t lead
the rest of Lexington to believe that we are all bigoted,
snobbish brats. Don’t embarrass us by publishing an-
other piece like “Stocking stuffers” again.

following dialogue. more serious nature. Again, be- one who has any questions about Cameron Howell '94
8‘ Student: (tocashier) “I'm hav- cause of our Honor System, we this matter to visit me in my
ing a hamburger and Pepsi.” have allowed members of the office at Evans Hall.
Cashier: (readytoring up sale) university community who “for-
“Are you having cheese?” I get” their morwy to come back Sincerely,
Student: “Yes.” and pay later.Int.liepaststudents Jerry Darrell, Director
Cashier: “That's acheesebur- usedtoatleast inform the cashier Dining services
O l
Common Ground Issue offends reader
To the Editor: other force in Western life. While this does contain one particularly irrespon-

When the Emperor Constantine
irnprudently handed civilization over
to the Christian church, the Lamb’:
Jollowers quickly proved themselves
the most vicious and intolerant group
of ideologues the world has ever seen.
(“Not even the wild beasts of the field
are as savage to one another as the
Christians,” remarked one 4th-century
observer, with a certain awe.) In the
genturies since (depressing ones,
mostly) Christianity has authorized
more carnage and suffering than any

growth-orientedreligionhasneverbeen
without its humane and intelligent ex-
ponents—notably its namesake—and
subscribers, the primitive, brutal and
intolerant have generally prevailed.
Tnie to this heritage, the bumblers who
give us W&L’s Common Ground
rrtagazine have just seen fit to mark
their Savior‘s birth with an issue de-
voted to fag-bashing.

This free-for-all reveals not much
more stupidity and illogic than we usu-
ally get from the Christian Right, but it

sible piece of misinformation. Of the
recently voted-on Ballot Measure 9 in
Oregon, Common Ground says that
“[w]hat was actuallyproposed was”no
more than an innocent “statutory defi-
nition of homosexuality as an act rather
than a trait.”'I‘his mild and sane propo-
sition, whined the Christian Bumblers,
has been sneakily and unfairly “at-
tacked as an ‘an anti-gay law’ or even
‘anti gay-rights law,’ as if the rights of
homosexuals were to be restricted.

In fact, this harmless proposed

City Manager defends car tax

important to W&L, its students, staff, and alumni. The city

To the Editor:

I certainly regret that ldid not read your Nov. 19 editorial
concerning the personal property tax until it appeared in the
News Gazette. I would have preferred to respond in a more
timely fashion toan issue you seemto place on equal footing
with the slumbering economy, ournation’shealth care crisis
and the role of the United States in the post-Cold War world.

Let me first state what I consider to be two indisputable

Ofacts: 1) nobody likes to pay taxes (though most people
accept them as a necessary evil); and 2) as you stated in your

' editorial, the only reason the city is collecting the property
tax (from anyone) is for the dollars. It does take money to
provide governmental services from which society benefits.
Local governments are constantly being squeezed by the
Federal and State governments which are trying to meet

‘' gtheir basic needs by cutting local funds and, at the same time,
passing on exceptionally costly mandates. These mandates

on top of other normal local goverrirrient responsibilities
like public safety, transportation, sanitation, and education
all require tax dollars to provide. Taxes that should be pmd

by all.

Your editorial suggests that students shouldri’t have to
.pay a personal property tax if they bring a car to school with
. them. You fail to give a reason, however, as to why students
should be exempt. And if they are exemptfrom this tax, what
about other state and local taxes that you pay? If you are
from out-of-state and take a part-time job while in school, do
you not pay Virginia's income tax? When you purchase an
item, do you not pay state sales tax? I know I do when I am
ut-of-state. In some situations, we even have parents of
students purchase a house for the student to use while they
' are in school. Would you claim that they should not be
subject to our real estate tax? So far I have not heard a hue
and a cry about students paying these taxes.
You also seem to think that President Wilson should be
‘vilified for endorsing a policy of cooperation with the city
and making contributions to support the city. On the con-

\

O

trary, he and the other leadership at W&L should be com-
mended for having the foresight to recognize that a ﬁnan-
cially healthy government that supplies quality services is

is very appreciative of not only this financial commitment,
but even more, the larger commitment he has made to
encourage the entire institution to become an integral com-
ponent of our community.

In addition to the annual contribution, the university has
been very supportive in requests for specific contributions
that the city has made; however, let's not give the impres-
sion that these come anywhere close to the real estate tax the
school would pay if it were not tax-exempt. In FY1992-93,
if there were no exemption, W&L’s tax bill would amount
to over $993,000. To put this in perspective, if both W&L
and VMI had to pay real estate taxes, the city could still
support its existing budget if it eliminated the personal
property tax and reduced the real estate tax rate from 96
cents to 64 cents. I am in no way advocating any change in

. existing tax exemptions. My only intent is to show the
financial impact on the city of existing tax policy.

If the real problem you face are “hassles” with your home
locality, the answer is to allow us to better educate your

. parents of this responsibility and to assist us in getting bills

school's locality.

real problems.
Sincerely,

T. Jon Ellestad
City Manager

out in a timely manner. Because of the difficulty in finding
as many of the vehicles as possible, the tax bills tend to be
sent out later than they should. This causes confusion with
other localities. Other Virginia jurisdictions are well aware‘
of the personal property tax laws and most are cooperative
when infonned of the situation. The largest jurisdiction in
Virginia, Fairfax County, actually states in their tax pam-
phlet sent out with bills that students may be billed in the

I would contend that one of the major responsibilities of
a university is to prepare the student for his/her future life.
Ihope that years from now you won't be able tosay that you
learned how to pick and choose which taxes you should pay,
or methods of avoiding lawful taxes, at Washington and
Lee. Let's put this issue behind us and get on with solving

amendment to the , state constitution
would, in its own Words, declare ho-
mosexuality “abnormal, wrong, un-
nanrral, and perverse.” It threatened to
make same-sex parenting illegal, pro-
hibit queer schoolteachers, and strip
homosexuals of state business licenses.
No restriction of anyone's rights there.

MerryCliristmas,Common Ground,
and to your view of the world, a good

night.

As ever,
Niall MacKenzie '93

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for the election of Ex-
ecutive Committee president, vice
president and secretary, and ‘Stu-
dent Coriduct Committee president
are due Feb. 1. The elections will
be held Feb. 8.

Republicans

College Republicans will hold
an open meeting on Wednesday,
Jan. 13, in the Mock Convention
office. There will be a platform
discussion on taxes.

EC Budget

The EC, in an attempt to pre-
vent budget overruns in various
student organizations, will hold two
interim budget meetings with the
treasurers and presidents of each
group. Atthese hearings, the offic-
ers will be asked about activities
and funds spent to date, as well as
plansforfutureactivities. All clubs,
unless otherarrangementsaremade
with Ames Hutton. are required to
attend these interim hearings. If
these hearings are not attended, an
organization's funds will be fro-
zen at the Business Office. Ifthere
are questions or problems, contact
Ames Hutton at 463-8588.

WLUR

5 You could win two tickets and
backstage passes to see Alabama,
Diamond Rio and Michelle Wright
on Friday, Jan. 22 at the Roanoke
Civic Center. Listen to WLUR
91.5 FM starting Sunday, Jan. 10
for more details and for a chance to
win CDs and cassettes.

Internships

Washington Term Program ap-
plications are now available in.Pro- .
fessorConrrelly’s ofﬁce,C-School
room 108. and are due Jan. 11.
Internships areavailable with Con-
gress,theWhiteI-louse,thinktanks,
executive agencies, and interest
groups. They are open. to all ma-
jors and all classes. Y

Calyx Photos

Underclass pictures will be
taken on Monday, Jan. 11 in the
University Center, room 113, 10
am. - 12 noon and l p.m. - 5 pm.
Don’t be left out of the Calyx this
year!

 

PAGE 3

 

Senior Photos

Sigri-ups for Calyx Senior Pic-
tures will be in front of the Co-op
Wednesday, Jan. 13 through Fri-
day, Jan. 15 from 11 a.m. - 3 pm.
Every senior who has not had his
photo taken for the Calyx must sign
up.

e

Club LAX

Anyone interested in Club La-
crosse should show up to the first
1993 meeting, in Newcomb 7 on
Tuesday, Jan. 12 at 7 p.m. Bring a
checkbook. A

Opera

WLUR will be continue its
broadcasts of live operas from the
New York Metropolitan Opera via
tIieTexacoInterriationalRadioNet-
work this term. This weekend’s
opera is Puccini’s “Tosca” and will
be broadcast Saturday, Jan. 9 at
1:30 p.m. on WLUR 91.5 FM.

Live Drive

If you're drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturdaynights
from l0 p.m. - 2 a.m. We're also
looking forvolunteers to help drive.
If interested, call Melissa or Jess at
464-4017.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will
meet Monday, Jan. 1 1 in The Ring-
tum Phi office at 8 p.m. The meet-
ing is open to the community.

The Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
production assistants. For infor-
mation contact Rick or Cathy at
463-8581. Reporters are also
needed; contact Greg or Leigh for
 or Joyce for features at 463-

Roommates

W&L senior needs two respon-
sible W&L student roommates,
male or female, to finish a lease for
the '92-93 school year. Nit.-’.. house
on Washington Street. $200/month
(tngtgotiable). Call 463-5219 for‘

e .

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Talkback

The Phi is looking for a responsible person with a camera
to become the new Talkback editor. Anyone interested
should call Fran at 463-8581.

On Vacation

Because of a clerical error, colunmists George Will and Christopher
Matthews could not appear in this week’s Phi. They will return next week.

‘Patriotism’ threatens democracy

MY Vrr~:w
By Brian Carpenter, ’94

Throughout the 1980s, creeping
socialism amidst the dripping, green
jungles of Nicaragua was a promi-
nent bogeyrnan of the Reagan ad-
ministration. Ortega and his band of
revolutionaries were perceived as a
threat to our country, and the admin-
istration was vocal in its condemna-
tion of the Sandinistas. The Reagan
adniinistration‘s response to the per-
ceived threat in Nicaraguan social-
ism revealed a far greater threat to
American democracy: Oliver North,
Bill Casey, John Poindexter, Robert
McFarlane, and other administration
officials who considered the laws of
our nation as applicable only to the
“little people.”

Ever-vigilant cold-warriors. the
Reagan administration saw the Marx-
ist menace everywhere. Granada was
invaded to protect U.S. students and
the Grariadians themselves from the
supposed threat of Marxism. The
“success" of the Reagan administra-
tion in Granada was not matched in
the case of Nicaragua. Congress con-
tinually opposed aid to the Contras in
Nicaragua, and eventually made it
illegal. through passage of the Boland
Amendment.

Law took second place in the value .

system of the Reagan

administration's intelligence forces.
Primary importance was placed on
the elimination of
communism and

plishments. The actions of North and
his cronies are not new. American
history has a long
tradition of fanati-

socialism through- cal patriots who use
out the world. Laws must ?PPl_3’ their patriotism to
Oliver North, to every indi- justify violating

John Poindexter,

vidual in this

laws and the Con-

Bill Casey and ev- stitution.

eryone else‘ in- country; Other‘ The“RedScare"
volveddidnotcare wise widespread after World War I
thatthelawforbade ~ led to the violation
it, they were going abuse will occur of individuals’ civil

to aid the Contras
anyway, for the
eternal struggle
against commu-
nism demanded
such action. Yet
here lies the fallacy of their argu-
ment. When the war against commu-
nism is used to justifyviolation of the
lawsof the United States, afar greater
threat to American democracy
emerges: a clique of individuals in
positions of power who consider
themselves above the law.

Laws must apply to every indi-
vidual in this country, otherwise
widespread abuse willoccurby those
who feel capable of avoiding the law.
Government officials must be held
accountable to the same strictures as
the common citizen. Ideally, they
should be held to higher strictures
because of their ability toenact large-
scale positive and negative accom-

by those who feel
capable of avoid-
ing the law.

rights, and
McCarthy's hyste-
ria of the 1950s re-
sulted in similar
depredation of the
constitution.An odd
paradox emerges: those who most
vocally proclaim themselves patri-
otsare often willingtodo unpatriotic
things to bring about their ends.

The smug satisfaction on the face
of Poindexter as he sat through the
Congressional hearings, the teary-
eyed martyrdom of Col. North as he
appealed to patriotism, blinded
Americans to what these men and
their associates represented. Claim-
ing the mantle of patriotism, these
men tried to justify their violation of
the law. The sad fact is, these men
who thought themselves above the
law pose a far greater danger to
American democracy than was ever
posed by the Sandinistas.

I7  .n« ..a ........,a '.ua<v¢w.- .-

-um.-...» 5-11*: .... .

 

 

PAGE 4

The Ring-tum Phl, January 7, 199

FEATURES     -

ebruary 2 — Senior Class President and

Student Conduct Committee Member
Read Folline is charged with driving under
the inﬂuence.

February 3 — The Rockbridge County

arch 7 — Mock Convention declares
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton the V
Democratic presidential nominee on the -‘
first ballot. Speakers at the 1992 MC in-
. . . clude former Speaker of the House Tip
gmld J“’Y mdlcls f°”“e" VMI cad“ Chad O’Neil,former Massachusetts Gov. Michael .

Hudmnr °n Charges °f ’3P°- 5°d°mY~ gmnd Dukakis and New’York Gov. Mario Cuomo.
larceny and two counts of breaking and __ ,1

entering. March 11 — Hudnall is ac- _l"' ‘

anuary 9 — The Delta Tau

DeltaHouse Corporation tem- ,
porarily suspends the frateriiity’s _ ' '
participationintlieFraterr1ityRe— \
naissance Program after vandal-
ism to the house. The W&L li- ~
brary names its newly computerized catalog
“Annie.”

 

The

 

 

January 10— Women’s Rush begins with , , .n d f . d .
3» $‘i.‘:3::‘:i}E,::£i?:fi‘:.‘ft‘i“c‘?’§;:i‘:r‘i’?§°%I“w‘i.‘: 2:a..:ui:.»:2*i:a:ir - »
S°'°my’ 1 em " was tortured and killed in Peru in 1989 while in her dormitory Oct 13- .
investigating drug trading.
. ebruary 15 — The
9 J anuary 23 — Delt officials say they B°a’d°,fTm5“?°5 3P‘
will dispute the chapter’s suspension. P"°"°5 3 ““"°“ hike °f
ForrnerPresident of Costa Rica Oscar Arias 5-5 P‘?"°°m and me °°“'
lectures on “Security in the Post-Cold War 5“'“°”°“ °f an $800900
Brag» art gallery on the Colonnade. 3
ish prime Minister Margaret Committee reduces Delt's punishment
1-hatehe, lectures at VM1_ for vandalizing its house to a one-year
suspension and three subsequent years
of critical probation.
  4
February 27 — Law School students ‘
sweep run-offs.BobTompkins is elected 9 ‘
EC secretary and Reggie Aggarwal is * _
elected SCC chairman.

l t

M arch 2 -'I'he W&L faculty gives the I ' ’

Panhellenic Council a vote on the .

the Student Affairs Committee but pre- I
vents students from getting majority con-
trol of the committee by adding another
faculty member. .
_ . _ March 5 - After a six-month self-evalu-
anuary 29 -The jurisdiction of the Con- ation the Confidential Review Commit- >-
ﬁdential Review Committee and the Stu- tee reveals its proposed plan that includes
dent Conduct Committee in sexual assault the statement that W&L is not bound by ‘
cases are among the topics discussed at a the First Amendment and may legally
. . meeting with students and the CRC. suppress student speech. .
A      January 30 - Delt cleans up its house and is '
drafting an appeal of its suspension.
     ebruary 10——JuniorJosh McFarland h 27 _ Th
 ed   1 9 9 2 F is elected Executive Committee presi- taggme of Fancf,  
V  . dent and sophomore Ames Hutton wins the - _ '
p J anuary 17—'I‘he Student Affairs Com- office of vice presidem D1’?-55 1992 Cele-bl'3U“8 the 1 ~ v

500th anniversary of Chris-

mittee suspends Delt from campus for _  e
topher Columbus’ re-dis- he, .79“

five years for vandalizing its house over a
10-week period.

February 12——Acommitteeof the Virgina
House of Delegates shoots down abill that covery of the Americas is

would have spared students who live out- “A Return Voyage to the Age of Explora
of-state from Lexington’s car tax. tion,”

February 13 —— Mock Con- March 15 — Sigma Phi Epsilon's ii
vention nabs New York Gov. . sync team of Stickboy and the Catvmk ~’
Mario Cuomo for keynote ad- wins MTV’s Lip Service contest i ‘
dress. Daytona Beach, Fla.

January 20 — This year’s
_ Founders’ Day commemo-
. rates not only Robert E.
I Lee’sbirthdaybuttlie100th
 anniversary of Omicron
~ Delta Kappa‘s founding.

   

.. ....... ,; -. ,,  ., ...... ..,._a.4‘ ..,.  --- ->-- -- '7‘----> ~ r ~~- - —----~-- v -~ ~ ----M

CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

GAMES. HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

__,..___....V.—.. _. ~.-._ ‘V’ ~_.-.,-,. .....,..- N...  .. .,.. .-.. _ :';_.'_J —
. u

W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for’
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barbershop
22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below First American Bank

lUNlIRS]I'll‘Y

SPURTWEAR

15 w. WASHINGTON ST ‘'
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

  
    

 
 

dale - - nd Back - Giant
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

     
   

   

463-7969

 

  

 

   

     
     

Valley 

. , ' I I
Ladies, Shoes’ Clothmg Hardware Paint and Re ated tems

andAcceSS0nes Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1-5 p.m.

(703)463-5988 463_21 86

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
/

‘ 

\ 

f

 

.'.'.'.'.'.'-'-'1'}
._.-

W&L Art

1870 Washington College Diploma

 viep B °s.iq pz pandas .iauui([ put; ‘qounq ‘istzpleaig
 dais !~l3ll.lJ, S6°€I$ mo 3ui>1 S6'II$ ma uaenl) signed “RE be - A
 qm aulida 1li3!N Keplnms  M Lee S"“"‘“’°i”»;i:. Lee. Jr.
5555 5 Fiatgiugh Lee John Letcher
 _E  S -)[3UJ 9[0[[M  -}[3BH   M.Miley Edward Valentine *1
 9l(l9l939A is mmodio 93!0ll3 - 1ll3!NOﬂﬂ1ll3!N53PS9"P9AA  ‘”%vL&i°§§§’£¥%fie’§‘i§,?.‘f:a23i:?;§°;2t’°° -
  Sculptures by Ron Tunison

2-er-s

557$ 123 neg)-[1-[IV °u1°d z 01 'tu'e 3 iayng 1se_p[ea.ig[ Kepung
*3 66'l7$ WEI “3C)'fl'llV
‘um 17 01 °tu'd [1 1q3§N KBp.In1BS zg Kepi.I_g1a1;ng[1s1ap[ea.ig

V. ”?“2

George and Mary Washington pieces

' *‘ 

i”iii"niimunu5 .
unuutu

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450

L (703) 464-6464

L

Open Monday - Saturday
10 am. - 5:30 p.m. *

‘-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-:.-.-.=-:.-.-:.-.-

    
 
  
 

 

.- - - - — i - -I - - - - Q - - - - 3 - - - - — - -U ‘
d_ _ e STUDENT SERVICES IBOX l792ll.PLANlATION.FL 3331 . .
CILI lOtl'OI'IlCS of I I
N h tw rm t l d d
 - wow — <=~= we ......r... .:;.rg;:::..::t:. .;;.:....v:..":.°:.:.°°.:§;‘.::c.“.:.*.» . Y ES! uwmewszwmsrmcmn; cm .
DENON SONY credit cards" In your name. EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards, Enclosed nnd S 5 which is 100% refundable if not I
ADcoM ALPINE CREDIT or wwr: BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . appmed ,mmed,ate,y_ . T
,'é’§”'°‘ 'é'Vf,',‘,“”” visas and MastcrCard0 the cricdlt cards you I I
BOSTON DEFINH-NE desenic and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMl-IN!‘ | NAME 3 b
 wow .Mm.r.3a:;*_*i22*;:::'r.::r.ii:".;: - ADDRESS -*
- SPEAKERTRADE up PROGRAM I . I
. BUYERPROTECHON PLAN HOTELS-MOTELS—GAS-CAR RENTALS-
- cARiNs'rALLAnoN osmzmsur REPAlRS—AND T0 atnu) voun CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE _ ZIP I ,
3 i73é‘§?n"»§§§5iV<'§s‘r§§§L‘§s ' 5 I
- MASTERCARD /VISA/DISCOVER vﬂmﬁiu '   ' r
6 “g - 3 '
_ 7 cs Iio credit SIGNATURE I ~
(800) 468 666 glI|*s‘:3‘\““ N0 SBCIIVWY IIEDOSIII! ' Norm Masiaoud Isl iqismed tndernult arnsueioni Inusmuon-L Inc. I
°°"‘°' °f °9d°" 8‘ s"""°’ W‘ “:IIsI|*"“ 1 '‘c‘ I Visa Is a registered tndenmir dmsa usa. Inc and VISA Imam-non-I D ’
Overlook‘ T lewood ‘
27soog33n Ragga - Roanoke 0“ " """'°"“' a"‘°'"“"" 5““""“°“’ 5° I S°""°°' *"°°"“°" Ioo-/. ouanaursznt I
I
I - - D - I I I I 3 I Z - I 1 - I - - - - - - - J

 

E The Ring-tum PM, January 7, 1993

- FEATURES   ,7
ovember 3 — In response to a series

N of ﬁghts between students and ca-
dets, student leaders from W&L and VMI
create a judicial process to hear disputes

Colonnade Crossword

September 31 —— James Keith
Shillington, W&L’s icon of Home-
coming halftirnes and professor of chem-

istry for 38 years, lies.

S eptember 8 — A
R o c k b r i d_ g e
County grand jury re-
fuses to indict former
W&L senior Richard

ughes on attempted
rape charges.

September 10 -— After a circuit-court
order in May upholds City Registrar
Lucille J oyce’s refusal to register sec-
ond-year law student Chris Kowalczuk
to vote in Virginia, Kowalczuk ﬁles
gis intent to appeal to the Virginia
upreme Court. _ __

between students from the two
schools. W&L students both

celebrate and mourn Bill

Clinton’s presidential win.

ctober 15 — Phi DeltaTheta’s house

corporation suspends all chapter func-
tions for the remainder of fall term to
punish the chapter for damage done to
their house during Homecoming week-
end. Kappa Alpha national corporation
places the W&L chapter on social proba-
tion for the rest of fall term for violating
alcohol policy during Tear Weekend.

9%

N ovember 9 — IFC Presi-

dent Sam Rock says the
IFC should start enforcing the
guest list and “bring your own
beer” policies written in the IFC

constitution.

November 19 — A Princeton Review
survey says W&L has the most popu-
lar fraternity system in the nation.

S

men signing up.

eptember 15 — Men’s Rush kicks
off with 93 percent of first-year

September 17 -—— A Washington and

Lee chapter of The Gay and Lesbian
Alliance, open to students and alumni,
is established. Former W&L student
Charles Blakely Comer, who was con-
victed for the hit-and-nm . ‘ '

death of student Ashley ,
Scarborough, could retum

to jail for a DUI charge in

Georgia.

ctober 29 — As election day

. looms closer, 38 percent of the
student body surveyed back George
Bush, 30 percent supportBill Clinton
and 30 percent said they were unde-

November 21 —— Former W&L
economics professor E.
Claybrook Griffith dies.

December 1 —- A team of movie
producers scout W&L as a possible
location for the ﬁlm version of a novel
based on the experiences of an ex-
change student at W&L , The Foreign
Student by Phillipe Labro.

December 2 — John

ACROSS
1 Air hazard
5 Cry of woe
9 Singing voice

13 Brave man

14 Candied

15 Peruse

16 Vicinity

17 Extreme

18 Group of

musicians

19 Net fabrics

21 Servings of food
23 The Orient

25 Chair

26 Movie houses
30 Reverie

33 Unite with heat
34 Diplomacy

36 Test

38 Dial word

39 Talent hunter
41 Snow glider
42 Agitates

45 Musical sound
46 Snow vehicle
47 Scomful smile
49 Some baseball

players

51 Abound

53 Scorch

54 Wildlife tracts
58 Mystery

62 Of the mouth
63 Place of worship
65 Sight

66 Place for

grinding grain
67 Available
resources

68 Otherwise

69 Favorites

70 Lively

71 Girl

DOWN
1 Hoax
2 Only
3 Metallic
minerals
4 Green light
5 Totality
6 Strip of wood
7 Measures of
land
8 Closed tightly
9 Judge

©1992 Tribune Media Services. Inc A
Last week's answers

All Rights Reserved

10 Incline

11 Sharp flavor

12 Chances

14 Triangular
inserts

20 Dine

22 Portion

24 Stretch of
land

26 Pairs

27 Hoists up

28 Fairylike

29 Large ladle

31 Passage in a
store

32 Manufacturer

35 Long jacket

37 Movable covers

40 Fastens

43 Narrates again

44 Vaticinator

46 Shrink and
wrinkle

48 Renovate

50 Metal container

52 Confused
struggle

54 Lively frolic

55 Cleveland's
waterfront

56 Seasoning

57 Principal actor

1

59 — monster
60 Jumble
61 Frightens, in a

way
64 Social insect

Sbar, ’9 1 , returns to
W&L to autograph cop-
ies of his book, The Un-
dergraduate Almanac.

Students await the call to war

Fifty years ago: The administra_tlon_advises all stu-
dents to wait until more _informa_ti_on is given by the
governmentbefore they ]O|l'l the military or until they are
called to active duty.

Five years ago: ‘The EC receives 50-75 inquiries
from around the nation concerning W&L_’s Honor Sys-
tem afterthe s stem appeared in a syndicated column
by Michael J. cManus.

ctober 6 —'I'he SCC

votes to permanently
dismiss senior Marcus
Lamar Miller from W&L
after finding him guilty of
harassment, trespassing and
ungentlemanly conduct.

October 1 —Comer is ordered to serve
the four and a half years remaining on his
original ﬁve-year sentence for involun-
tary manslaughter. and hit and rim.

N ovember 12 — Phi Delta
'I'heta’s kitchen doors remain
closed for the rest of the semester,
despite a plea by Phi Delt parents to
reconsider the punishment by the fra-
temity house corporation.

L "' f 'ﬁ*".,"-»’ 3"," -in,?’\f'»9—":'!!YV\tE\!"'i1’4‘WK"‘F‘1T-!iV“!."V)’flV3£“*l’V’3Y"'r. -'39 'C'v""--V‘ ﬂu.’-!"".‘..'

  Wlleﬁmi
 * back %
3 fir g
as Wfiiriitir *
* Tami e

Good*Luck 3
from the *
Student

Activities

* Board a g

%

:""\r~"-ii ‘}.“P‘.' -.-',X:'t—'.m. ,' .‘ I ... $7i;"..liR’¢t‘€?

rs OIIRPAR v
AND WE’ll BUY
IFWE wAilr to.

One Day Only

January 15th, 1993

11 amto7pm

*

It's our anniversary,
but you get the gift.
Buy your favorite
footlong Subway
sub and we'll give
you a second one -
FREE. At Subway,
we really know how

 ..._Z:. ;:.'."_,...‘.,;_‘_.;':._.;-: ..‘.  ‘ I_.:‘.;‘. -35

BUY ANY
I REGULAR
I F00'l'l0|lG

SIIB GET
I OIIEIOF

EQIIAI.
VALIIE

*3

‘Second footlong sub must be of equal or lesser price.
Limit: One coupon per customer per visit. Not good in H
combination with any other offer. Offer expires: 1-15-93.

503 E. Nelson Street, Lexington

463-3322 I  
Open ‘til Midnight
7 Days A Week! I

*

es

  a

 

Welcome
Back!

PAGE 6

Swimmers
prepare for
first meets
after break

By Krzmr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
swim teams have had parallel
1992-93 seasons. Both enter
winter semester undefeated
and both kick it off with a meet
on Saturday versus Catholic
University.

In addition, both coaches
feel confident about their
teams’ chances Saturday.

“Weshoulddowellagainst
Catholic. They’re about our
size,” said women’s coach
Kristin Jacobs.

Jacobs’ squad dominated
their first two meets of the
season, but she is concerned
thatthereareonlyeightwomen
on the team. Catholic, though,
onlyhas 11, so Jacobs doesn't
think the numbers will be a
factor for this meet.

Men’s coach Page
Remillard is hoping his team

 

Prlnce

Jacobs is also very happy
with her team. Although se-
nior Claire Dudley, sopho-
more Susan Fisher, and fresh-
man Rebekah Prince have
been dominant in their events,
every swimmer has performed
up to expectations, she said.

“We’re doing great with
such a small team, but our
numbers will probably hurt us
against Georgetown,” which
has a much larger team than
the Generals, Jacobs said.

The women are in a very
similar situation to last year,
when the Generals nearly
swept the ODAC Tournament
but couldn’t manage enough
points to beat all of the larger
schools.

“We can probably walk in
and win most of the events,
but the outcome will depend
upon how the other schools
score against each other,” said
Jacobs.

remembers last year's loss to
Catholic.

“We didn‘trespond like we
usually do,” Remillard said
about last year's meet with
Catholic.

“We’re hoping to put up
the competitive effort we’re
capable of putting up. There’s
a lot of competitiveness on
this team. Every day is like the
ninth inning and all of these
guys want to be the pitcher.”

Remillard is pleased with
his 3-0 team, but remain cau-
tious about Saturday.

“It’1l be our first test in a
month,” he said. “Some of the
guys are going in with strong
training, some missed it, some
are coming off of injuries. "

Remillard said who wins
will depend upon how each
can cover their weakness.

“We don't like losing and
so far we haven’t.”

   
 
  

 
  
  

OUTLETS

30 South Main Street Downtown Lexington
\ Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 463-9730

   

(Fall Fashions For “The Student Body. ”\
50°/o-80% Off
Every Day

TGIF

up your résumé

The Ring-tum Phi

wants help for winter term:

Reporters .
Ad Salesmen
Production Assistants
T alkback Editor/Photographer
Editorial Page Assistant

S

(11112 ilting-tum iﬁlti

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

By SEAN 0’RoUru<r2
Phi Sports Editor

The best way to characterize
the Generals’ basketball season
so far is by using the Coney Is-
land Cyclone.

You know the Cyclone—the
world’s most famous roller
coaster. Well, the Generals have
been following that kind of trip
nine games into the season.

W&L started off the 1992-93
season on fire. They were 3-1
after a long and draining road
trip, and it seemed the team was

going to prove many of their‘

doubters wrong.

But the team has hit one of
those nasty drops with the wicked
turn. The Generals dropped four
straight and then faced a month-
long hiatus. Not what a strug-
gling team needs.

But head coach Verne
Canﬁeld has seen the month-long
break before and he knows how
to handle it.

Canﬁeld workedhis team hard
to get back the lost conditioning
and was confident they were
ready for the Millsaps Majors

Wrestlers ready for the second-season-

last night.

W&L started out strong, tak-
ing an early seven—point lead
against the Majors, but could not
sustain the effort and fell 72-71.

“[We played] exactly like a
team off for a month,” said
Canﬁeld. “We seemed fatigued:
mentally, emotionally and physi-
cally. We did things we usually
never do.”

What the game basically came
down to was free throws. The
Generals ﬁnished 4-for-12 from
the charity stripe, while Millsaps
went 17-for-19, going 15-for-15
in the second half.

But Canﬁeld felt the lay-off
also hurt the team chemistry.

“We didn't show any team
chemistry. There were never ﬁve
guys playing together,” Canfreld
said.

It lack of the team playing
together was evident late when
the Generals tried to come from
behind but had a difficult time
getting their offense together.
They just never seemed to be in
unison.

The roller coaster doesn't get
any tamer with Roanoke College
storming into Warner Center on

W&L’s ‘Bryan Watkins (22) drives to the hol

thou n he dldn’t start, Watklns finished with 20 points, helped by a 5-for-9 performance
from outside the 3-point are. 1

Saturday. The Maroons walloped

Millsaps less than week ago, 108--
71

'Canﬁeld knows what it’s go-
ing to take to even stay with the

 

This Week:

 

Bball-RC 7:30 1/9;MWC 7:30 1/11;
Lynchburg 7:30 1/13
Swim-Catholic 2:00 1/9 (M&W);
at Mary Baldwin 1/13 (W)
Wrestling—Davidson 12:00 1/9

Maroons.

“They are one of the two best
teams in the ODAC. They are a
very good basketball team, so we
are going to have to find some-

JANUARY 7,/1593

Generals fall jut hrt, -71

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi
e against Millsaps’ Brent Wilson. Even »

thing in the ‘intangible’ areg,”

Canﬁeld said.

“If they can beat us by 40
they’re going to try for 50. We
have to come ready to play.”

  
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
     
   
   
 
  
   

   

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

   
  

in their meet with Newport News Appren-

Fortunately, freshman Owen Smith and
tice, and it followed that the team was

looks for his team to be competitive at the
sophomore Adam Williams have returned

weights they do compete in.

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team now has a clearer understanding of
the challenges before them -in 1993.

However, despite the young

talent, the year will most likely be a test of

the tearn’s resolve and patience.

W&L had to forfeit four weight classes

: 4ooo+

The Phi uses Aldus PageMaker, Mi-
crosoft Word, DeltaGrap[t and Aldus
Freehand. Proficiency in at least one
of these programs is expected in the

business world today!

I

F ______ __\

| could be reading
I your
in this space.

   

soundly defeated, 52-6.

“It wasn't an eventful day for the Gen-
erals,” head coach Gary Franke said.

The Generals will continue to forfeit
these matches in each meet for the re-
mainder of the season. Franke has no
bodies to wrestle at the 118, 177, 190 and
heavyweight weight classes.

from injuries which kept them out of the
previous two matches.

Rob Sands distinguished himself by
placing sixth at the season—opening Leba-
non Valley Invitational. Sands was the
only General to place in the Invitational.

Even though W&L will only compete
in six of the ten weight classes, Franke

“We’ve seen some nice things [and
even without the four forfeits] we should
have been more competitive in the Lebt
non Valley Tournament than we were.”

The Generals will have a chance to
show their entire line-up at this Sunday’s
meet in the Warner Center against

Davidson.
7

      
          
        
       

team's

        
       
        
      

   

COUNSELORS: Camp Wayne, co-ed children’s camp,

Northeastem Pennsylvania. June 22 - August 20, 1993.

Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred), Waterski, Sailing,
Basketball, Volleyball, Softball, Soccer, Gymnastics, Aerobics, Drama,

    

eyes

   
 

‘gr W-4

‘Z’

J-
“P
or 53
é‘
V

Nature/Carnping, Guitar, Batik, Dance/Cheerleading, Sculpture, Ceramics,
Painting, Silkscreen, Photography, Self-Defense. Other positions available. -7 T
On campus interviews Thursday, February 4, 1993. '1;
For more Information, call 516-889-3217 or write 12 Allevard St., 04¢‘

I
l
I
ad I
l
I
I

Q
Lido Beach, NY 11561. Include your school phone number. PEOPLE

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
    
 

  

iHlENl]S lll]N'l lil illliNl]S Ulillli UHUNK

   

‘to

 
 

'=‘!o! us. Depanmem or Ttanspoﬂanon

    
 

  

5 stand in a tiny balcony, while

V Prize winning journalist Nan

  

im./‘i
Co¢"'

‘me uurvsasmr tti;rr‘Ar'z”*?

wnstzrmon it use ti;ww’ere‘s‘iii‘

lE.)‘l!~::3‘i'0?J, wt. 24.455

JAN 15 I993

’ ‘A. .»

  
 

Hitting A High Note

Guest conductor,
clarinetist highlight
upcoming Lenfest events

The Thrill of Victory

Genrals break losing streak with

win against Hornets in Hoops

 ’ trip: at

g-tum lﬂlti

_ VOLUME 92, NO. 14

Journalist .
battled
prejudices

, By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

2

for many years, women re-
-‘ porters assigned to cover National
Press Club conferences had to
their male counterparts sat in the

‘ spacious ballroom area, Pulitzer

Rgbertson told a Lee Chapel
crowd Monday.
_‘ “We stood up there, packed
‘ together, lunchless, unable to ask
, questions,” the former New York
Times reporter said. “We were
‘ hot, we were jammed together,
. there were no seats. Not only
that, but we could barely hear the
speakers. Now that was real dis-
crimination.”

Robertson, a self-described
“uppity woman and proud femi-
nist” joined other female Times
re orters to form the Women’s
C cus in 1972, which filed a
sexual discrimination lawsuit
against the Times.

“The core of our complaint
was that women were being paid
thousands of dollars less a year

s.

' WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

for doing the same work as men
g inQ"he New York Times, and that
women were repeatedly training

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Staff Writer

men to become their bosses,”
Robertson said.

The caucus also found that no
women held positions of impor-
tance at the Times. Instead,
wOmen reporters were assigned
to cover “food, family, fashion,
and fumishings.”

“When I came to Washing-
ton, did I cover the president of
the United States? I covered the
first lady, her children and their

T U see TIMES, page 6

 

“Hi! I don’t think we’ve met...have

we?..Yeah...Maybe?..No...Oh, well, if
not it’s nice to meet you.”

Women’s Rush concludes tonight

and freshmen and actives alike say
they will not miss most of it.

“Sometimes I think that if I have to

tell one more person where I’m from or
what mymajor is, I'm going to scream,”
one freshman said.

Even with over 150 rushees and

hundreds of sorority actives crowding
into the University Center each night,

there have been no major problems or
mix-ups, Parthellenic Council Presi-
dent Carrie Eubanks said Wednesday.

Rho Chi Kate Townley, whose job
during Rush is to lead her small group
of rushees from party to party, said
everyone seerfls to be having a‘ good
time.

“The rooms have been ﬁne and
nobody’s passed out yet,” Townley
said. “People are staying up late and
scrambling to make all the prepara-
tions perfect, which is normal.”

But some freshman women looking
forward to pledging a sorority say the
fomialities of Rush can be tiresome.

“It’s really hot [at the parties] and

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Photo by Leigh Allen, The Ring-tum Phi

Rushees prepare between Bush parties in the University Center Tuesday night. Tonight is the last
night of women’s Rush.

Rush elicits screams

I’m losing my voice,” one freshman
rushee said Monday. “But I’m glad I'm
meeting so many new people.”

Eubanks said that after tonight’s
Preference Night, sororities and rush-
ees will choose each other in a “mutu-
ally matching process.” Each sorority
will have a quota of pledges that is
determined by dividing the number of
women attending Preference Night by
four, Eubanks said. At presstime, the
quota had yet to be determined.

Parthellenic Publicity Chair Joanna
Love said she's glad that the end of the
long week is in sight.

“ [Rush] is fun, but everybody’s glad
when its over,” she said.

Class of ’92: W&L social scene lacking

.g By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

“If you could change one aspect of
' student social life at W&L, what would
it be?”
When 100 members of the class of
’92 answered this question on the
Senior Exit Survey, 85 percent said
they were dissatisfied with some as-
pect of the social scene at Washington
‘ and Lee, citing problems in the frater-
nity system and in the Honor System’s
ap lication to social situations.
t alf of those who found faults
with the fraternity system said they
' were unhappy with the recent admin-
t istrative interference and some cur-
rent students agree.
“Our administration has been plot-
t  a slow, gradual and complete
over of W&L’s fraternity system.
‘ I’m glad I only have one more year

«College politicos anticipate
inauguration in different ways

left here. Hopefully [I’ll graduate]
before the ‘Naziﬁcation’ is complete,”

‘Should I go to a fraternity party or a
fraternity party? ’ ” sophomore frater-

juniorDoug Shepard nity member Brian
said. McClung said.

The other half of The graduates
those dissatisfied alsopointedoutsome
with the fraternities shortcomings with
believe the school put the Honor System.
too much emphasis The Honor Sys-
on fraternities in gen- tern inspired a “spirit

eral. Half the inde-
pendents who re-
sponded to the study
said being an inde-
pendent had a nega-
tive effect on their so-
cial lives.

Even current fra-
ternity members
agree that most so-
cial events center
around fraternities.

    

Mcclung

of trust” in only 64
percent of recent
graduates. Some re-
spondents com-
plained that the
Honor System ap-
plied to academics
studies, but not to the
social life.
“Socially it is a
joke,” one student
said in the survey. “The Honor Sys-

“When you’re going to go out on tem at W&L is virtually non-existent

a Saturday night the question is

By ROBERT WILSON
Phi Contributing Writer

groups.

1

* W&L’s College Democrats will travel to Wash-
ington D.C. next week to take part in inaugural

festivities for President-
~ elect Clinton.

“A few of us will be strategies to countermea-
“ going up on Sunday for a Sures by the new admin-
reunion on the Mall istration. group President

I which will involve a cel- Ted Elliott Said.

ehation of America’s

diversity with arts and

crafts and things,” Col-

lege Democrats Presi-
dent Cottie Miles said.

The festivities on the
‘ Mall will be followed by
tagathering at the Lin-

coln Memorial, Miles
' said.

, . Miles said about 15 College Democrats will
travel to Washington Tuesday to witness the inau-
‘guration ceremony and participate in activities
surrounding it, Miles said. The ceremony will take
phtce at 11:30 Wednesday moming and will be
followed by a parade down Pennsylvania Avenue

at 2:30 p.m.

College Republicans, vowing not to hibernate
until 1996, also have plans for inauguration week.
In aTuesday night meeting entitled “On the Eve

 

ing days in reaction to Clinton’s administration.
“Watch out for the College Republicans. We

will become very active on campus in the coming

days, as well as working on various state cam-

paigns,” Elliot said.

Miles said the members of College Democrats
will carpool to D.C. for the inauguration in several

_ Elliott also said students should watch for Col-
lege Republican T-shirts, which say: “Don’tblame
me, I voted for Bush.”

when applied to Greek organizations

and social situations.”

Academically, the survey showed
that students approved of the
university’s general education re-
quirements.

In addition, a W&L education
sparked new and creative interests in
76 percent of those who answered the
questionnaires. About 75 percent of
the graduates said their extracurricu-
lar activities were rewarding.

“Playing basketball lets me meet
girls from other schools and see other
campuses, too,” sophomore Kather-
ine Boozer said.

Copies of the Senior Exit Survey
results are on reserve in the Univer-
sity Library for anyone who would
like to read it.

Members of the W&L commu-
nity may also obtain copies from Pro-
fessor of History Robert W. McAhren,
chairman of the Institutional Effec-
tiveness Committee.

JANUARY 14, 1993

EC to review
White Book

By-FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The EC Monday created a committee
to propose a formal Honor System review
process and clarify the process for amend-
ing the White Book. \

Executive Committee President Josh
MacFarland said he would like the new
section to require-an Honor
System review every four
years. That way, he said,
every student generation will
have the opportunity to re-
view the Honor System.

MacFarland said the last
Honor System review was
three years ago and followed
an open trial. He said a peri-
odic review process would
be better than a review
sparked by the controversy
surrounding an open trial.

“You want to take a step
back from [an open trial],” MacFarland
said.

MacFarland also said the amendment
process of the White Book should be more
speciﬁc. The student constitution now
says a majority vote of the EC is needed to

I amend the White Book. MacFarland be-

lieves at least a two-thirds vote should be
required.

MacFarland appointed EC Secretary
Bob Tompkins, Vice President Ames
Hutton, junior Rep. Jimmy Kull and fresh-

man Rep. Peter Agelasto to the committee  2

 

and asked them to have a proposal by
February vacation.

On Monday, the EC will review a list
of Honor System issues sent to them by
W&L Rector Stephen A. Miles.

MacFarland said he asked Miles to
compile the list of issues from letters
Miles had received concerning the Honor
System. MacFarland said the EC will dis-
cuss the issues Monday, but he doesn’t
believe they will make any
significant changes.

“I’d rather all this stuff
be done in a formal review,”
MacFarland said.

Tompkins said he be-
lieves the list of the issues is
generally good.

“Some of the [issues] we
might do well to examine
closely,” Tompkins said.
“Some of the changes
wouldn’t fundamentally
change the Honor System,
but make it clearer to those
not involved administratively with it.”

MacFarland said the list of issues the
Miles asked the EC to discuss includes the
single sanction, whether infractions should
be categorized it as major and minor;
investigation procedures; if a guilty ver-
dict should require a unanimous vote;
whether intent to commit an honor viola-
tion should be considered; and whether
the administration should play a role in
the Honor System.

MacFarland said public opinion will
be welcomeat Monday’s meeting.

New Scholars join
despite uncertainty

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Despite uncertainty over the future of
the University Scholars program, 14 fresh-
men joined its ranks this semester.

The recent appointments come at a
time when a committee of faculty and
students is conducting a review of the
program to determine whether it should
be eliminated. ‘

Committee member Alan Carter, ’95,
said the new appointments do not mean
that the pro gram will continue unchanged.

“The new appointments should not be
interpreted one way or another in terms of
having an impact on what the committee
will recommend in its report to the fac-
ulty,” Carter said.

Some faculty and administration mem-
bers have said that the program, which
allows selected students to interact more
easily with professors and each other, is
no longer necessary because the current
student body has a higher academic qual-
ity than when the program was created.

Scholars advisor John Evans said in
November that if the Scholars program is
eliminated, it will be phased out over four

years to enable all students currently en-
rolled to complete the program and gradu-
ate with honors.

The committee will report its recom-
mendation on the future of the program to
the Courses and Degrees Committee in the
spring.

The new Scholars are enrolled this term
in the first step of the University Scholars
system, a one—credit reading course. The
course consists of two books impact of the
voyages of Christopher Columbus on Latin
American culture.

Scholars will continue to take special
discussion seminars while at W&L and
must complete an honors thesis before
graduation.

Privileges of University Scholars in-
clude the option of a one—on-one tutoring
session in place of select courses, access to
a Scholars’ lounge and invitations to spe-
cial functions and speakers that come to
campus.

The new scholars are Jeanne Briggs,
Amy Carrington, Phaedra Cianciulli, Pe-
ter Dishman, S.R. Evans, Gretchen Hall,
Laura Howell, Robin King, Istvan Majoros,
Meagan Miller, William Robert, Kirk
Susong, Marina Vasilara and Peter
Weissman. '

of Apocalypse,” the Re-
publicans will discuss

The meeting will be
held at 7:30 p.m. in the
College Republicans of-
fice in the University
Center.

He said Tuesday's
meeting will include a
discussion of objectives
for the party in the com-

It doesn’t feel like January

 Photo by Mallory eyers, The Ring-tum Pi;/I

Live Drive
asking for
volunteers

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Contributing Writer

Students who take advantage
of W&L’s Live Drive should
think about pitching in to help
keep the service designed to save
lives running, the group's orga-
nizer said.

Junior Sarah Butler, head of
the organization, said Live Drive
no longer pays students to work
on big weekends, so student vol-
unteers areessential.

“It’s a volunteer organiza-
tion,” Butler said. “It’s for the
students, and if they want it, they
have to help organize it.”

Any students who wish to do-
nate theirtime can call 464-4017.

Live Drive provides rides for

Freshmen Dominique Chappelear and Margaret Hawn take advantage of unsea-
sonably warm weather Wednesday behind Robinson Hall.

students from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
on Friday and Saturday nights.
The Live Drive number is 463-
8947.

 

 

PAGE 2

    

@112 ‘iﬁittg-tttm 1311 i

Founded September 18, 1897

Justdoit

Hello.

Hello!

Yes, you. The one staring at your toes while you walk
down the Colonnade.

Are your toes so interesting that you’ve completely for-
gotten a little thing called the Speaking Tradition?

You remember the Speaking Tradition. Prospectives hear
all about it during tours of Washington and Lee, and fresh-
men learn it during orientation.

It’s really a very simple concept: W&L students acknowl-
edge each other, even when they aren’t personally ac-
quainted. It’s just one of the little things that makes this
campus warmer than all those big state schools.

But lately we’ve noticed a distinct trend on the Hill:
selective participation in the Speaking Tradition. Friends do
it. Guys tend not to. Freshmen do it. Upperclassmen tend not
to.

What the hell is going on? Do you really want W&L to turn
into just another UNIVERSITY with a bunch of students
who don’t know each other and don’t care that they don’t
know each other?

Saying hello doesn’t kill brain cells or take too much time
or drain too much oxygen from the atmosphere. And it just
might make someone feel warm and fuzzy inside.

The Speaking Tradition. Just do it.

Just do this, too

Speaking of traditions, the Calyx has been around W&L
for a long, long time. Most things grow when they age, but
the poor, malnourished Calyx just keeps getting skinnier.

Imagine yourself in, say, 40 years. You’re developing a
paunch and your kids have left the nest, and you’re feeling
nostalgic for the good ol’ days at Washington and Lee.

So you open up your cherished Calyx, only to find a bunch
of pictures of professors you’d really rather have forgotten.

And then you remember. You and your friends decided to
sleep in the day pictures were made, and you decided to
spend your $15 on beer instead of the sitting fee.

Well at least the beer gave you a physique that lasted.

But:.seriously~folks,\ every Calyx is one »class’s senior

Calyx,‘ and we all want our ‘senior Calyx to be a complete.

reminder of these halcyon days of youth.
The Calyx Picture. Just do it.

One more thing

The Executive Committee is talking about revising the
White Book, having appointed a committee to determine
how the revisions process should work.

Whatever the EC’s motive for considering a White Book
review, we are optimistic that EC members will ﬁnd their
way to determining the necessity for any revisions.

But experience from the last White Book revisions pro-
cess, two years ago, tells us that students will play a disap-
pointingly small role; the last White Book revisions gave
new meaning to student apathy.

In a My View this week, senior Bill Coffin stresses the
importantrole “the student generation involved” plays in the
Honor System. We hope the current generation won’t shirk
its responsibility to participate in the coming proceedings.

Gllir ‘iaittg-tum iﬁlti

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leigh Allen, Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sean 0’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Realtions Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

OPINION

~'I ;
, , .

   
  

The Ring-tum Phl, January 14, 1 993

      
   
  
  
  
  
    

Democrats breaking promises already 

WASHINGTON —— During the
campaign Democrats promised
“change,” perhaps assuming that
“change” is a synonym for “progress.”
During the transition they have proven
that it is not.

Having promised a Cabinet that
“looks like America,” Bill Clinton has
cobbled together one that looks the
way Americans fear that America is
becoming: 13 of the 18 nominees are
lawyers. Considerations of “diversity”
(different chromosomes and skin pig-
mentations, not different ideas) have
slowed the stafﬁng of the administra-
tion, but it is off to a brisk start breaking
promises.

The Bush administration ’s revision

' — upward, as usual —- of the deficit

forecast is Clinton’s excuse for retreat-
ing from his promise to halve the deﬁ-
cit in four years. He calls the projec-
tions a “revelation,” although as early
as August his campaign had the Con-
gressional Budget Office’s warnings
about the soaring deficit.

The projections are also the excuse
for scurrying crabwise away from the
promise of a middle-class tax cut. But
three weeks before the new projec-
tions, Wall Street Journal interviewers
noted that Clinton was “clearly luke-
warm to his own proposal to cut taxes
for the middle-income families.” He
said: “I don’t think there's anybody
that thinks it’s a very good way of
getting theeconomy up.” .

In Septemberthe ‘Clinton ,carii'paig;i

. said:“wesiiotiidciri'§riid;ii§§r;r§§;a§;e,§;

I 6

immediately by 10 percent.” The post-
election position, stated by adviser
Robert Shapiro, is “no new taxes on
middle-class Americans until their in-
comes are moving up again.” That is,
we won ’t take more until there is more
to take. Unless, perhaps, middle-class
Americans own automobiles.
Candidate Clinton denounced as

more than it did last year with its bank
and post office and other debacles.
Although 27 honorable Democrats
broke ranks, the bovine herd of the
other Democrats was large enough to
pass the measure giving virtually full
voting rights to the delegates from Sa-
moa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, Puerto
Rico and the District of Columbia. All

“unfair” a five del-
gasoline egates are
m ,,,_ GEORGE WILL D,,,,,,,,,,,,
crease. By - o of course.

Dec em_ Washington Post Writers Group E V e n
berhewas the bovine

saying only that a 15-cent per gallon
increase is “a lot to raise in one year.”
By Jan. 2, there was this New York
Times headline: “Gasoline Tax Rise is
Reviving: Clinton Said to be Easing
Opposition.”

The legislative branch also is be-
having badly, again.

The Senate’s Democratic leader-
ship has made former Senator Wyche
Fowler, the GeorgiaDernocratdefeated
in November, a $130,000-a-year “spe-
cial deputy” to the Federal Election
Commission. Democrats believe the
FEC should have ordered the GOP to
curtail its spending during the Novem-
ber nin-off campaign that Fowler lost.
Fowler will recuse himself from the
FEC’s continuing consideration of that
case, but his appointment is an intimi-
dating reminder to the FEC of the Sen-
ate majority's power.

 _ ”The House hashit the ground run-
 in thelrace to disgrace itself even

were so squeamish about this that they
made it ludicrous as well as unconstitu-
tional: The delegates’ votes will count
only it they don’t count. That is, the
votes will count unless they provide
the decisive margin on an issue.

This abuse of power, done for no
apparent purpose other than to adver-
tise the majority’s ability to do what-
ever it wants (until the courts cry
“Halt! ”), was hardly the only example
of the House Democrats’ growing ar-
rogance of power.

They have now given the speaker
the intimidating power to arbitrarily
add or remove any member from any
select or conference committee. Worse,
House Democrats, whose party traces
its pedigree back to Jefferson, have
jettisoned the principle that a commit-
tee “can only act when together,” a
principle whose pedigree rims back to
Jefferson ’s Manual of Parliamentary
Practice. ‘ .

Until now, a committee quorum had
to be actually present when a commit-
tee is drafting legislation because de-
liberation is a collective undertaking,
and Congress is, in theory, a deliber§-
tive body. 'I'hat theory is mocked by the
new rule, under which a “rolling quo-
rum” shall suffice.

That is, a chairman can declare that
a quorum necessary for drafting legis-
lation exists when a majority of mem-
bers has been present for any part off’:
session on the legislation.

Chairmen —— they are all Demo-
crats, of course —— can even be one-
person quorums after enough mem-
bers have passed through the commit-
tees’ rooms.

The Government Operations Com-
mittee is one of the House’s principal
instruments for oversight of the execu-
tive branch. Last year, funds for the’
committee’s investigative staff were
allocated 90 percent for Democrats, 10
percent for Republicans. Democrats
said this was justiﬁed because the Re-
publicans controlled the executiwe
branch. Anyone who believes the allo-
cation this year will be significantly
different has not been noting the might-
makes-right swagger of the unbridled
majority.

Or noting The New York Times of
Jan. 12: “And Mr. Clinton’s staff h$
said in recent days that yet another

pledge, to reduce the White House staff
by 25 percent, might be difficult to
fulﬁll.”
. © 1993, The Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton "Cabinet connects kitchen and capitol’

WASHINGTON—When President Lyndon
Johnson bragged about all the Ivy Leaguers working
for hint, Sam Rayburn said he’d feel a whole lot
better if just one of LBJ ’s best-and-brightest had

“rim for sheriff once.”

Bill Clinton is not making the same LBJ mistake.
The signature aspect of his Cabinet-to-be is not so

much its ethnic

back home.

home.

and gender diver-
sityasitspolitical
weight. Just as
Clinton recruited

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

aposse of brilliant
hotshots to win

the White House, the President-elect braved the
Christmas msh to pick an equally impressive bunch

to help him keep it.
A quick recap:

This time last year, Clinton faced a ﬁeld of
Democratic rivals for the nomination and what looked
then like a tough Republican incumbent in George
Bush. To run the best possible campaign, the young
Arkansas governor quite simply hired the best in the
business: James “the Ragin’ Cajun” Carville and

quiet sidekick, Paul Begala.

What made Carville and Begala unique was:
1) their ability to attract middle-class voters to

their Democratic clients; and

2) a winning track record marked by fresh victo-

ries in Kentucky, Georgia and New Jersey, plus a

L string of wins in Pennsylvania capped by Democrat
Harris Wofford’s come-from-behind upset of U.S.
Attorney General Dick Thombuigh in a 1991 U.S.

Senate race.

Clinton looked for the sameset of bragging rights
in recruiting his presidential team. Jimmy Carter
failed because he couldn’t connect with the politics
of Capitol Hill. George Bush failed because he

Bush.

couldn’t connect with the kitchen-table economics

The Clinton Cabinet has been selected for its
ability to make both connections: on the Hill and at

Lloyd Bentsen, who will be 72 in February, has
been winning elections for a half century, from
county judge to U.S. Congress,
where he served (as he once re-
minded Dan Quayle) with the
young John F. Kennedy, to the
U.S. Senate, which he entered by
beating fellow Texan George

A secret to Bentsen’s success has been his ability
to connect with the average family on bread-and-
butter issues. As chairman of the Finance Commit-

cares about what the folks back home  That

attentiveness to grassroots politics is one reason that

the eight-terrn congressman is equally popular on
Capitol Hill. Speaker Tom Foley and House Demo-

craticleader Dick Gephardt know Panettanot as soul:

bureaucratic nurnber-cnmcher but as a colleague who,
just like them, knows what it means to seek re-
election every two years.

Picking a veteran politician as his budget director
is Bill Clinton’s way of saying he wants his spending
and tax decisions to sell, not just in the dank halls of
Capitol Hill but also in the lush farmlands and coastal
communities of Northern California.

Ron Brown, Clinton ’s new commerce secretary, is

tee, for example, he champi-

counts, one of the few tax faced a ﬁeld of Democratic convincedthattheirPresi-
breaks most middle-class rivajs for the nomination dentis creating economic
families haveevermanaged to . hope,andnotjustforthose
en,-°y_ and what looked then like a who missed out in me 6,. .

votes back home.

oned the return of full tax de-
ductions for money deposited
in Individual Retirement Ac-

Bentsen wins in Washing-
ton, in other words, because
he never loses touch with the
prime currency of Capitol Hill:

Leon Panetta, 54, is another
pro.Peopletalkaboutthe Cali-
fomia congressman as a defi-
cit “hawk,” a legislator seri-
ous about reining in the
country's ﬁscal excess. He is. But Panetta is also a
Democrat with the proven talent for convincing a
middle-class, socially diverse constituency that he

another impressive politician. As chairman of the
Democratic National Committee, Brown got the two-
winged party to ﬂy a winning course the last 12

months. As a member of
the Cabinet, he will b:

This time last year, Clinton

tough Republican incum-
bent in George Bush. To run
the best possible campaign,
the young Arkansas gover-
norquite simply hired the
best in the business....

asked to do the same: keep
down-and-out Democrats

’80s; also, keep the new
President aware of what
folksinthe neighborhoods
are saying and feeling.
While Bill Clinton de-
serves credit for forming
a Cabinet that “looks likg

for sheriff.”

America, ”he’s also made
sure there are plenty of

people around him who lcnow what it means to “run

® 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Kindness can stamp out stereotypes ’ -

MY VIEW .
By James Hambrick, ’94

Everyone knows the dangers of ap-
plying stereotypes, but everyone does
it anyway. Each and every person I
know, including myself, has certain
prejudices and a working idea of the
way the world works. And sometimes,
these prejudices just don't apply.

As students here, we “fit” into a
model: rich, arrogant snobs who ride
into town, get drunk, rip Lexington to
pieces, and ride out again. We are
victimized by this stereotype, but we
victiniize the town, too. I've heard a
thousand times that Lexington wouldn't
be here without W&L. No one ever
seems to consider that W&L wouldn’t
be here without the town.

These stereotypes create an artifi-
cial distance that no one seems willing
to bridge. We don't really need to look
far to dispel the W&L stereotype. The
students can speak for themselves, but
more often than not, they only speak to
themselves; by countering the stereo-
type in their own peer group, they

preach only to the converted. We don’t
reach into the community to build stron-
ger relationships, and counter some
stereotypes.

Now, some students at Washington
& Lee are

munity, as an exemplary kindergarten
teacher. Now, however, the child’s
time has come, and she has had to take
off work to see the child through her
final hours. Unfortimately, her love

and emotional

reaching _ , , strengtliwillnot
across the This IS a Call to dispel the pay the bills_
gar» A stereotypes of everyone in This“ is Where
woman in th .t hether the nch, arro-
the commu- _e Fommunl _y9 W gant snobs”
 Siisan within or outside the stu- $2: inzs the

1115, IS In Wlm
mubla Her dent body. Stereotypes are Team will be
c 1, i 1 .1 , not good, but they re real. conducting a
Kristen, at ° 9 - ° ' 9 24- hour Swim-
birth Suﬁ Susan Elkin ssituationisn t Amwmomise
fered from good, but it’s real. Here is money to pay
disease with the bills and at-
a;,fe,,xpec,- our chance to change both ,e,,,pm,g,,,e,,,,,
my °f these situations at least a S°“‘° °f ‘h°
around a _ wages she will
month. This little f0!‘ the better. lose this month.
week, the Anysuppon we
child is two can give to the

years old. This woman has carried the
child through two arduous years with
love. Above and beyond her love for
her child, Susan has given to the com-

swim team, or anything we can do on
our own, to see this woman makes it
through this extremely tough time, is
vital.

    

Because Lexington, believe it or
not, is a vital part of the W&L experi-
ence. instead of cracking jokes about
the range of entertainment opportuni-
ties and food selection here, consider
what it adds to your experience -3-
remember it was part of what brought
you here for what is arguably four of
the most inﬂuential years of your life.

This woman, a recent transplant
from out-of-state, has perhaps less rea;
son than any of us to love this commu-
nity, but she has proven her dedicatioi9,
and she gives us a bridge to reach out to
the community and say thank you.

This is not a call for a debate on
what the W&L student body does or
doesn’t do for Lexington. This is a call
to dispel the stereotypes of everyone in
the community, whether within or cu!
side the student body. Stereotypes are
not good, but tliey’re real. Susan Elkin’s

situation isn’t good, but it’s real. Here ,

is our chance to change both these
situations at least a little for the better.

If you wantto help, get in touch with
Coach PageRemillard, Department 06
Athletics, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, 463-8694.

ery-person-for-himseU .

s.

   
   
      

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

So, ABC has a new weapon in their
war against “those notorious keg par-
4 ties,” huh? Should this strike fear into
the hearts of the beer-drinkingest,
pzﬁty-hardiest college students in the
western civilized world? Hell no!

Through the ages, Washington and
Lee students have been selectively bred
in order to produce the perpetrators of
the world’s most extravagant alcohol
parties. Scientiﬁc studies show that if
armebae are allowed to roam freely in
a petrie dish full of Budweiser, the
single-celled organisms will eventu-
ally evolve into W&L students, com-
plete with Duck Heads and wom-out
baseball caps. Further studies indicate
‘ that W&L students can derive their
, emire U.S. Recommended Daily Al-
lowances of all essential nutrients from
i just six cans of cheap brewhaha. Once,
several respected scientiﬁc minds came
up with some cockamamy experiment
that involved placing 12 W&L stu-
dents in a sealed environment for three
waks. After the three weeks were up,
the students emerged from their
sub-environment completely intoxi-
'« cated. Dr. Evan Von Schmendrick
commented, “Man, those W&L boys
' are a rowdy bunch! Evidently we mis-
calculated what the test group would
dogwith the basic grains, yeast and

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1993

water we gave them in hopes that they
might make food.”

My basic point here is that no matter
the hardships W&L students must over-
come, they can always ﬁnd a new way
to get drunk. Spos predicts that the new
keg law will not
make a difference

01’ aluminum cans? It takes a lot of
aluminum to ﬁll the demand for all of
those cans. Here’s where Spos’ plan
comes in: First, everyone buy stock in
aluminum companies like Alcoa. Sec-
ond, buy loads and loads of beer in
aluminum cans.
The increased

demand for alu-

OPINION

Spos lectures on avoiding new keg law

with regard to how
often W&L stu-
dents will pickle
themselves.

Rather, it will
dictate the new
ways in which stu-
dents will get
wasted. Once the
W&L student
body sets its mind
to finding loop-
holes in the new
law, students will
be completely
unstoppable.
Please allow Spos
to prime the pump
and start the ideas
ﬂowing:

IDEA #1- No

so whaddya say we go
out there and prove to
them that W&L students
are more than beer - swig-
ging idiots. Let ’s prove to
ABC that we’re beer -
swigging idiots who can
make complete morons
out of those high-ranking
officials who spend years
trying to write new laws
that prevent us from hav-
ing a good time.

minum will
cause the stock
to skyrocket.
Third, use our
dividend checks
to buy more beer.
See how this
works?

IDEA #3-
Write to the big
beer companies.
Tellthemthatwe

..won’t buy their

products unless
we can buy it in
kegs. They, in
turn, send lobby-
ists with huge
biceps and Ital-
ian lastnames to

kegs? How about party balls? Party
balls can be a lot of fun. Just think of
them as smaller kegs. Also, when you
and your friends kill a party ball, you
can cut out the bottom, stick it on your
head and pretend to be “the Great
Gazoo” from The Flintstones.

IDEA #2- What’s wrong with good

shake up the ABC. Next thing you
know, we’re back to having 27-keggers
at Zollman’s.

IDEA #4- Alternative beverages.
Drink lots of bourbon instead. How
about Southern Comfort? Jagermeister
is pretty cool too.

Eventually, beer distributers will

 

PAGE 3

catch word of who is responsible for
their declining market share and the
aforementioned Italian goons will pro-

. duce a solution.

IDEA #5- Disguise your keg. Glue
yellow yam to the keg in order to
sirnulatehair.Dressitupinafull-length
gown. Use your imagination. If the
ABC officer can't prove that it's a keg,
he can't bust you:

ABC G,uy—-Hey you! Is that a com
munal source of alcohol ?!

Frat Guy’-— How dare you call my

F D. date a communal source of
alcohol! Now look what you've done.
You've been so rude, you've rendered
her speechless!

ABC Guy — Er, uh...um.

It’s truly a sad thing that ABC has
brought it to this. It's obvious that they
are speciﬁcally targeting college and
high school keg parties with the new
law.

So whaddya say we go out there and
prove to them that W&L students are
more than beer-swigging idiots. Let’s
provetoABCtliatwe’rebeer-swigging
idiots who can make complete morons
out of those high-ranking officials who
spend years trying to write new laws
that prevent us from having a good
time.

Long live Anheuser-Busch!

  
    

NIY VIEW
‘ By Bill Cofﬁn, ’93

‘ Dear Mrs. McCord,

.I am responding, as requested, to your charge of
“the responsibility of examining and debating the
imperfections in a dogma everyone at W&L sancti-
ﬁe but few truly understand.” I have read and re-
read your article, the White Book, and have dis-
M cussed my feelings with my fellow students.

Your cry for a review of W&L’s Honor System is
poorly founded, nor do you even have the right to
cast judgment upon how this student body conducts
its affairs. You state that because a doctrine is old that
it is not necessarily without ﬂaw, backing up your
argiment by highlighting the Honor System’s most
glaring inequities. Indeed, the Honor System is not
without a certain unavoidable unfairness that can be
expected from any institution created by the fallible

something thafeach -student ‘wh‘o‘e'nrolls at W&L,
which included your daughter, complies with by
viiQ.'ue of choosing to attend, thereby approving the
behavior expected of us. I

You cpmplain your daughter is a victim of her
ignorance conceming a system few at W&L “truly
understand.” Any student enjoying the privilege to
study here is obligated not only to act within the
purposefully vague parameters established by the
M Hqior System, but equally to study, and thus “truly
understand" it. Any student who does not, (i .e. your
daughter) deserves whatever fate they bring upon
themselves as a result of their “complacency.” If
your daughter acted ignorantly and thus brought
’ about her own academic min because she, unfamil-
iar with the mechanics of the Honor System, failed to
acumder the standards established by it, then she has
forfeited her right to attend W&L. As unfair as that
may seem, it is a reality every W&L student will-
ingly lives under by attending this magniﬁcent
university.

Undoubtedly, if I were to ever feel wrongly
accused and convicted of an honor violation, I’d
prtjiably feel as bitter as you do concerning your
daughter (who, as I understand it, comes from a long
line of W&L alumni — I ﬁnd it hard to believe that
the Honor System had not been fully explained to
your daughter previous to her enrollment here). But,
I realize the vestigial risk of judicial error and hap-
pily subject myself to it day after day, much as your
4darghter did.

1 hands of humanity. The Honor System is, lioRv‘t=L’x>té'r‘:‘

We attend W&L to earn an education, become
adults, and most importantly, to subject ourselves to
certain ideological living conditions, which, if prop-
erly met, arm us with something most of the world
outside W&L grievously lacks —honor. I so strongly
support such a goal that I easily excuse the few errors
a human institution such as the Honor System is
liable to make — accepting even the potential victim
of myself ~— in lieu of the overwhelming good the
system otherwise produces. I do not believe, how-
ever, that your daughter’s case is just another casu-
alty in any “legion of the wrongly convicted”; she
committed an honor violation and was expelled for
doing so.

The White Book states three very important dis-
tinctions which I suspect you have either overlooked
or misinterpreted. “Persons attending Washington
and Lee must realize that our commitment to the
principle of honor is ﬁrm.” Obviously so, as evi-
denced  your daughter’s dismissal last spring.

‘Hdvlév‘er;’whIat"y'<.>'u jfa11.,tr.> un.d;ér.staric1.,.arr<1’;the,r.<:E,2‘y ;

complain against, is that “under our system students
must not lie‘, cheat, steal or misrepresent themselves
in any way that is considered dishonorable by the
student body generation involved.” Read that again,
Mrs. McCord, because for all your touted research, I
doubt that you have read that passage with sufficient
care.

The foundation of the Honor System is not a
sharply deﬁned outline of rules. Instead, it concerns
itself with several vaguely termed offenses, the exact
meanings of which, by their very nature as student-
created expectations, undergo constant examination
and reinterpretation by the “student generation in-
volved.” Your daughter’s honor violation might not
have been considered as such by “the generation
involved” 20 years ago, or by those yet to attend this
university, but at the exact moment when your daugh-
ter attended W&L, she committed an offense as
deﬁned by “the generation involved,” which in-
cluded herself. I scoff at your accusations of student
complacency when your daughter helped deﬁne the
very charge which caused her dismissal. I wonder,
Mrs. McCord, has she fallen under your careful eye
of scrutiny as well?

The White Book also asserts that “no violation of
this trust is too small to be ignored, for we understand
that honor is not measured by degree.” That is the
very spirit on which this university lives and breathes.
Your statement that the dismissal adhered to only the
“letter” of the law and not its “spirit” is wrong. When
your daughter committed her so-called “error in

lhterviews and Photos
By Troy Hill

 

‘Scott Howe, ’93, Hurst, Texas —-
.“Until W&L,graduates saturate the

gene pool.”
3 longer.”

 

Pa. — “1,0()0 years.”

 

will sup

‘Student grapples with honor questions

judgement" she violated the trust of every student
attending this university. It matters not if you feel she
did not intend to deceive; she inﬂicted equal damage
by making her peers unable to dust her. Her inability
to abide by the Honor System thus displayed that she
had no place here.

Furthermore, the institution that dismissed your
daughter from W&L was an Honor System, not an
honor code. We students do not agree to act under a
crystalline set of rules. That is a code, and also is
incapable of properly addressing honor. Contrarily,
we live under the inﬂuence of a constantly
reinterpreted authority determined by ourselves, an
ever-adapting, ever—replenishing system. IT is we,
the “generation involved" who redefine the expecta-
tions we must live with every time an honor violation
is reported. We hardly need you to remind us of a duty
whichis being constantly served. If any are compla-
cent, it is those who fail, through lack of effort, to

 .“t,ruly understand" their Honor System, which obvi-
,.5',QiASiy,iIl¢ludes yo1_1r.d,aught§-.r,   _clairn,th_a.t,__.

she is a Victim or'hé'r5'w‘n ignorance.

I’m sure you mean well, but since you have no .

directtie to this university as a student, you really
have no place or justification in suggesting how the
students’ treatment of ourselves should be changed,
much less offer that we examine the Honor System
according to your desires, such as emulating the
honor codes of other schools (e.g. UVa). The Honor
System is indeed harsh and structurally imperfect,
but these are points only the students affected by it
have a right to address, not lookers-on such as your-
self. As close as you are to being a W&L student,
having both marriedand given birth to one, you still
lack the distinction and subsequently the right to
comment on the inequities of our system. If your
husband would like to address the Honor System then
let him do it. Otherwise, you have no true understand-
ing of our community and hence, no business invad-
ing it with your myopic insight.

Finally, Mrs. McCord, your daughter’s dismissal
concerns her, not you. Here at W&L. when an open
trial has ended, we are expected to put it, whatever its
result, behind us and continue living. I despise your
use of a convenient immunity from such expectations
as a medium to snipe at an Honor System which, your
daughter and a potential handful of others notwith-
standing, has greatly enriched the lives of thousands.
If you ﬁnd our system so inequitable, then either
accept it or wholly detach yourself from it. Don't pick
at it from a distance because you feel transitively
slighted through your daughter's expulsion.

TALKBACK

Hu.Ying wu, Chinese Teachng Sakina Paige, ’96,Bayshore,N.Y., and Christa Kirby ’96, Couderspoff, Susan Rucker, ’93, Brinklow,
assistant — “If we take care of the
place we live, maybewe will last

 

Senior Photos

Remember to sign up for senior
pictures Friday, outside the Co-op
from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Any ques-
tions? Please call Shannon at 463-
5137 or Anthony at 463-4352.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum presents
“Women and Christianity,” a dis-
cussion with Father Jay Biber on
Sunday, at6:30 p.m. irithe Women’s
Center. Everyone is welcome.

I- House

Drop by the International House
on 8 Lee Ave. for our Open House.
This term we will celebrate the Chi-
nese New Year, sponsor a lecture
by Professor McDaniel, celebrate
St. Patrick’s Day, and more! Come
ﬁnd out more on Jan. 17, from 2
p.m. to 4 p.m. Refreshments will be
served.

Ariel

Absolutely lastdeadline forAriel
subrriissions is, Feb. 1 by 5 p.m. in
Carol Calkins ofﬁce. Photographs,
artwork, poetry, and prose accepted.
Questions? Call Brian Carpenter at
463-1001.

Repubﬁcans

The College Republicans will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Mock Convention ofﬁce. The dis-
cussion topic will be “On the Eve of
Apocalypse: the Clinton Inaugura-
tion.” For more info please call
463-8579. T-shirts are now in.

CD&P

The Kaplan Prep courses for both
the LSAT and the MCAT are begin-
ning. Interested students should
cometothe CD&P ofﬁce right away
to enroll.

Seniors wishing to participate in
practice interviews need to sign up
in the CD&P ofﬁce as soon as pos-
sible. Interviews will be held on
Jan. 18 and Jan. 26. These are the
last two practice interviews sched-
uled forthis year.’ -‘.. ‘ '  " ‘

I .:T_he  will sponsor aru_In- 1*
' terview Workshopon Monday, Jan. ,3
25fro’m 4‘p.m to 5‘p.in. in room 109'

of the UC. The CD&P ofﬁce will
sponsor a Resume and Cover Letter
Workshop on Tuesday, Jan. 26 from
4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in room 109 of the
UC. The CD&P personnel will also
be available all day Friday, Jan. 29
to critique resumes. Please call
463-8595 for further information.

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for the election of Ex-
ecutive Committee president, vice
president and secretary, and Stu-
dent Conduct Commitee president
are due Feb. 1. Elections will be
held Feb. 8.

Housing  

The “priority” housing applica-
tion deadline is Friday, Jan. 1 5.
There are still some suites available
in Gaines I-Iall,as well as apartments
in Woods Creek. Stop by Payne 4 or
call 463-8752 for more infonna-
tion.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

 dent ‘of the’ American Foundation

. “Jan- ‘2l,at 7:30 -‘p.m.-in{Lee Chapel

Film Society

The Film Society will present
“Howard's End” (England, 1992)
on Friday, Jan. 15 and Saturday,
Jan. 16 at 8:05 p.m. in the Trouba-
dour Cinema at the comer of Main
and Henry Streets.

WLUR

WLUR 91.5 FM is giving away
two free back-stage passes and 10
row tickets to see Alabama, Dia-
mond Rio, and Michelle Wright.
Register at the Co-op and listen to
the country shows from 12 p.m. to 2
p.m from Monday to Friday and
from 3 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Sunday
for more information. Registration
ends Wednesday.

Pre-Law

The W&L Pre-Law Society will
meet in room 221 of the Commerce
School on Thursday, Jan. 21 at 7
p.m. with members of Phi Alpha
Delta legal fraternity. All under-
graduate students considering law
school after graduation are invited
to attend. For more information con-
tact Professor John in room l25—B
of the Commerce School.

Superdance

Registration packet for
Superdance are available in front of
Carol Calkins ’ ofﬁce. Sign up to be
a dancer and support MDA.

Racquetball

Anyone interested in playing in-
tramural racquetball with the W&L
Racquetball Club should call 464-
3927, before Jan. 25.

Fencing

Fencing Club will meet Tues-
day, at 7:30 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge.
Anyone interested in participating
should attend.

AIDS Education

The AIDS Education Project will
hostDr. Merv Silverrnan ’60, presi-

£_or, AIDS .éR.ese2u_ch .orr:'*I'hursday,
for"a” lecture entitled ““A‘H3S: A
Global Overview.”

Lost

Black Julie Klienhalf-lengthcoat
on Saturday night. If foundiplease
call Julie at 464-6125.

ODK Schedule

Schedul of classes for Tuesday

A — 8 a.m. - 8:45 a.m.

B —— 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 a.m.

C — 9:40 a.m. - 10:25 a.m.
D — 10:30 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
Convocation — 11:30 a.m. -
12:55 p.m.

E — 1 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.

F — 1:50 p.m. - 2:35 p.m.
G — 2:40 p.m. - 3:25 p.m.
H — 3:30 p.m. - 4:15 p.m.

I — 4:20 p.m. - 5:05 p.m.

J —— 5:10 p.m. - 5:55 p.m.

- How much longer do you think the human race

Maryland, — “I don’t know.”

 
   

Leo Morozov, ’94 Ulyanovsk, Russia
— “A couple more years

 

 

PAGE 4

 

The Ring-tum Pnl, January 1 4, 1993

IFEATURES

By JOYCE BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

Her art hits the viewer over the
head with a strong blow of bright
colors.

“My art does not take my en-
erg)’/’ nationally known artist
Dorothy Gillespie said, speaking
at Monday’ s opening of her sculp-
ture exhibit in duPont Hall “It
gives me energy.”

Head of the Department of Art
Pamela Simpson sees Gillespie’s
energy in her sculptures.

“When you look at her work
you see vitality and optimism,”
Simpson said.

Gillespie, anative of Roanoke,
said Monday she never thought
she would see the day when she
would be talking to women stu-
dents of W&L.

Simpson said 72-year-old
Gillespie has been an artist for
over 50 years. Gillespie began
working at a time when there was
no such thing as a woman artist.

“It’s an amazing thing to think
that she was an artist back then,”

Art imitates life
Artist’s energy radiatesthrough work

Simpson said.

Simpson spent last weekend
with the visiting Gillespie.

“She has more energy than I
do,” Simpson said.

“I love the work,” Simpson
said. “It’s beautiful, colorful and
full of energy. I like them all.”

Gillespie’s works hang in the
permanent collections of Yale Uni-
versity, the Guggenheim Museum,
the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
and other nationally acclaimed
museums and galleries.

Simpson said Gillespie is the
“one big name artist” the art de-
partment brings to campus every
year.
“No matter what sophistica-
tion,” Simpson said. “Everyone
seems to respond to them
[Gillespie’s artwork] in the same
way.”

Gillespie has been a board
member for the Women’s Caucus
for Art and Women in the Arts.
Gillespie’s works, mostly enamel
on aluminum, are abstract compo-

sitions of twisting and curling rib- A

bons, painted in brilliant colors
and full of animated movement.

 

This enamel on aluminum work is entitled “Ebony Sentlnel.”

Gillespie’s enamel on
aluminum sculptures
convey a sense of move-
ment and energy. On the
left, “Color St0l'I"l'|" and
on the right, “The Is-
land."

 

Photos by Mallory Meyers

‘:3

The
Student

ctivities

‘ Board

pres en ts

COUNSELORS WANTED
for Camp Wayne, a
co-ed children’s camp in

Northeastern Pennsylvania.
June 22 through August 20

Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred),
Waterski, Sailing, Basketball, Volleyball, Softball,
Soccer, Gymnastics, Dance/Cheerleading, Aerobics,
Drama, Guitar, Nature/Camping, Batik, Sculpture,
Ceramics, Painting, Silkscreen, Photography,

Self-Defense, Other positions available.
On campus interviews
Thursday, February 4, 1993
For more Information, call 7
516-889-3217 or write

12 Allevard St., Lido Beach,

NY 11561. Include your

school phone number.

Walls crumble

Music proves stronger than any barrier ’

By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

Ukrainian , guest-conductor Alexei
Gulyanitsky will direct theJan. l6con-
cert of the University-Rockbridge Sym-
phony Orchestra in his first American
orchestra appearance.

Gulyanitsky, chief conductor of the
Armenian State Philharmonic Sym-
phony Orchestra
since 1966, holds
the title of “People ’ s
Artist of the
Ukraine” and was

more money. Up to the very last minute
there was a possibility he wasn’t going
to come.
“But he’s here,” Kolman said. _
Finally they had to overcome 9:
language barrier, since Gulyanitsky
does not speak English.
Gulyanitsky’s son, who speaks En-
glish, was unable to come to W&L
with his father, so Kolman had to find
someone who could translate musical
terms at orchestih
rehearsals.
The solution to
this problem was
Arkady Jeyfets, a

awarded the professional violin-
country’s coveted istlivinginNewport
“Order of Honor.” News, VA, who
Associate Pro- emigrated from the
fessor of Music and USSR.
director Barry The synagogue
Kolman met thatsponsorsleyfets
Gulyanitsky in and his family sent
Yalta, Ukraine last hisresumeandtapes
year when Kolman to all the orchestra!

d i r e c t e d
Gulyanitsky’s or-
chestra.

  

they could find in
Virginia, including
the University-

 

p.

t .

Kolman said that ‘ Rockbridge Sym-
getting Gulyanitsky - phony.
to the United States Guzyamtsky J eyf ets audi- »
was a two-year tioned for Kolman ’
struggle. and was selected as concertmaster for

“It started with getting him a visa,
which was four-month process,” said
Kolman. “It’s very difficult to get
foreign musicians here _
on visas. The US. gov-
ernment since July 1
has riiade very strict
requirements for mu-
sicians in particular."

After numerous calls to
Russia and visits to a congress-
man in Staunton, Kolman was able to
get Gulyanitsky’ s visa.

Meanwhile, Gulyanitsky was deal-
ing with monetary problems in Yalta.

“Hisorchestra, which was supposed
to pay for the ticket, pulled out at the
last minute,” said Kolman.

Finally Gulyanitsky’s son went
around to all the businessmen in Yalta,
asking them for money, Kolman said.

Then, the airfare went up after the
first of the year, so he had to get some

 
     
  
 

Saturday’s conceit, and translator dur- A

in g rehearsals.

Jan. 16 also marks the first anniver-
sary of J eyfets ’ emigration to the United
States. “Is good symbol,” says Jeyfets.

Mozart’s “Eine Kleiiie
Nachtmusik,”
Mendelssohn’s “Italian
Symphony” and a
concerto by
Hummel featur-
ing Major John
Brodie of the Vir-
ginia Military Institute on the trumpet.
The orchestra is composed of W&L
students, local residents and profes-
sional area musicians.
The concert will take place in the
Lenfest Center at 8 p.m. .
Krista Taurins is a musician with
the University -Rockbridge Symphony
Orchestra.

The night's repetoire includm.

  
 
 

 

1 he Rlng-tum Phl, January 14, 1993

1. n~ FEATURES

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 1 3
1 HBPPY
5 Following
10 Colorless
14 Lounging attire
15 Lacking in
sophistication
16 Vatican site
17 Singles
18 Utopian
19 Extremely bad
20.Warm greeting
22 Final dinner
course
24 Historical
penod
25 Fender mishaps

I Debussy,
Porter at
i Lenfest

JFrom the W&L News Office

i Claude Debussy and Cole
Porter are among the compos-
ers whose work clarinetist Ri-
chard Stoltzman will perform

   
      

! guesday, at8p.m.intheLenfest I i 25 Literary sketch
‘ entef_ FT: ' ' . . “I’m very pas- 30 Abounded
Stohzman will also perform BYJEANNE BRIGGS Sionate about the 34 Copy. abbr.
. . . . W . _ _ 35 Corn spike

works by Olivier Messiaen, Phi Staff flier woods, and climbing 35 Perfume

Johannes Brahms, Timothy '*‘—‘—i—‘ has given me great 37 Taxi . _

Greatbach, Clare Fischer, Dick K11-1(1:0110, 1001010, respect for the mom. 3? gggefégggg!

HYman and Jimmy R°W1e5- in German and direc- 131115.” F0110 S_a1d- . 42 Representative

Stoltzman is a graduate of 101- 0f the w&L our- Follodescnbeshis 44 Speck _ _ 0
Q)hio State University with a ing C101,, takes his mountaineering ac- jg igﬁlifg ©'§’i?3iI,i1?£"nZ§i.?5é?iS°"'°°" '"°‘

do‘-‘hie maJ°r 1“ muslc and math’ profession far Outside “Vines 35 mV°1V1n$ 3 48 Involved Last week’; answers:
ematics. He earned a master of the classroom. modest degree ofdif- so Dish of greens 10 Chest or

music degree at Yale Univer- F0110 Spends his ﬁculty. 52 °"“'“ drawers

5313’ While 5111(1)/illg with Keiih summers mountain- He said he climbs 53 Z:':,$ahn°g"e°  X/,:?,?:,: Me,

I Wilson and later worked toward climbing in the swiss mountains ranging so Swim 13 Leather sash
._ adoctoral degree with Kalmen A103, 00m1,1n1ng his f,0m 10,000 10 60 Enderwatler  _l]\_Al:ln.g"pfOﬁUCl
‘ . perman atColumbia_Univer— 10“, 0f 1110 German 14,000 feetin height, 61 Eﬁfggéy ° 25 Szoffédegf V
‘ 311)“ A 10-year Paﬁlclpani 3‘ language with his in- where there is some 63 Poker stake 26 Clergyman
.’ the Marlboro MUSIC FCSIIVBJ, ter-est in the 0utdo01-s_ Snow and ice but no 64 All-knowing 27 Picture
he gained extensive chamber wh110 in 010 A103, V01-11001 fa00S_ 22 Sgaglishaped 28
a music experience there and sub— 110 011,005, studies the Follo said that he 57 Heavy meta; 29 Ha
sequently became a founding 010015 and 11150015 10 generally stays inone 68 Doled out 31 Point of a story
_ member of the noted ensemble 1110 sm0und1ng 0,0,1- place for a period of 69 P"°“°"  gfé_'f'::haio':fe';‘
1 QFASHI’ whlch made us debut Fonmemr and Speaks lime 39‘! makes (13)? DdWN 38 Flower essence
in 1973. 1 h German with the na. excursions. ; groeper 39 ﬂagged
‘ - ' ' o I ary u n
‘ rtS.mce dthen’ S1“?  as nVe5- _ 1 He Sfald he chmbs 3 Biblical brother 40 Waited upon
PC Orme 35350 °15‘W‘ m°_’° In addition to 310119 Or the H1031 4 Downward trend 43 Cuddled
than a hundred Orchestras. In sharpening his lan- ‘ 1’ ‘ . part, which means 5 Enlivened together
' ‘ ‘ ' - ’ ,- s   - 6 Lose color 45 Move to another
adgmgm tg work as a récuahst gu.age Sk‘“.S' F0119 ‘  .. ’ . »  .,,,.'. that he mus?‘ Cmrllcer-1 7 Four-in-hand country 53 Hood 57 Be aware of
an. ° am. 6‘ m“5‘° 9° °m‘.°’* Said he believes his .__ 5 = ,._. . . .    A traie 0“ W *3“ 5 ‘S 3 Get away by 47 Skiing race 54 Indian 58 Feminine suffix
Q Jazz ‘mm and 3“ excluslve trips also help his , doing 81a11'llfneS- deceit 49 In the past 55 Space agency 59 Sly look

RCA recording artist In 1936 teaching in other Follo approaching the summit of the Totano dl Rozes located “Climbing is very 9 Give in 51 Animated 56 Location 52 Tub

he became the first wind player ways. In the Italian Alps. restorative. There is

to be awarded the Avery Fisher “ [ M o u n t a i n - a certain amount of

Prize, joining Such eminent re- climbing] develops in you a sense of ing, rock-climbing, biking, white—wa— solitude in the mountains,” he said. '
cipients as Richard Goode and concentration,”he said, “andit strength- ter canoeing and kayaking, as well as Follo, who has been climbing 10    
Yo-Yo Ma. ens your will to environmental pro- years, said he has had only one acci-

- widewhaiiedasdoinsfor  oi» dent released by EC dance boord

. . grams.
the Clarinet What Rampal and Staeles and en1iV- He sald he chn.‘bS Follo said his time He said he was fortunate to have
Galway have done for the flute, ens you, which is mountain 5 rang“; g in the Alps and in the been climbing with a group of friends 50 years ago in the Phi — Student ofﬁcers and enlisted men with the

 

Stoltzman has appeared as 3 irnportant in the Cascade Mountainson when it happened- Aim ’s School for S eciol Service who ottend the Fonc Dress boll
:°1°i5‘ With ‘he New Y°’k Phil‘ °1a5Sr°°m-” :mm. 10’00.0 hm 1413000 the We?‘ °°a5‘ has °“' T"’° S““‘“‘e'S a3.°» F9”°f°“d“rin8 will riot be requlredpto weor costumes, as other FD otteiidonts will.
. armonic, the Orchestra Of La Follo also eet In heig ll, W ere abled him to learnalot a descent from a climb in bad weather .
- 1. R d- S _ . . ._ _ . . Ticketsforofﬁcers and enlisted men are $3.50 eoch. Otherstudents
Scala. the Ber In 3 10 Ym brings his experi there IS some snow and about the plants and and dislocated his shoulder. ,
ophony,theEnglis_hChamberOr- ence ‘and exper- . . 1 f animals in both areas. _ “_We had gotten through the most Vt/Iii be charged $4.40 each. _ .
chestra and thePittsburgh Sym- use 1n the out- [Ce but no Vertlca aces. He compares what d1ff1cu1t pan, but easy ten-am can very FIVE YEOTS C90 ID the Phi - After  months Of DYGDOYOTIOH ASSOCIOTG
phony. doors to the (_)ut- _ he studied there to the often become treacherous,” Follo said. Dean of Students Leroy Atkins issues standards to ﬁx up the frotemlty
ing Club, which has programs for hik- wildlife in this area. “I was very lucky.” houses physicouy as pan of Fraternity Renaissance.

ondale - - Din Bk iat
Janspoit day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop
Needed: 9   0 W1”-SON‘
 A Few Good :5 WALKER

  
    
     

    

x’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\.’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’x’\’\"\

\’\’\/\/\

Join us for our

Buy one get one free Special

Tuesday - Saturday
5:30-7:30 p.m.

 Must show college I.D.

_ ‘alt  »__,f'_ _ Expires January 31st

\ .-.:

 Freshman Men  r..-...,...r . = _ It Ody Look‘, g emmm

T 0 Help with Admissions Recruiting. §5 3° N" M‘’‘'" 3"’ '-°"'"9‘°" Wirrson-Walkrrrrmiseoﬂersexreptionarquariiy servicemamnm cwssicaé

_ _ _ Reservations Recommended - ,{ ,,,,,,,,r,,,,,,, [e eg 40,, ,g- 5,15,, ﬁe
Call Nancy Hickam at the Admissions » 463-3020 mm t 5 mp mhitapbri-‘£ee§fiaty¢7tufii$ni1r_;j"¢12r’:;.&1’C Wgamamp re‘

- / /
off me , 463 — 8 7 1 () , Q/Q/\.r /.0/\/\/\/\ /.0/,(\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/.(\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/‘I\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\l\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\{.0/\/\/\/\/\/§

:5’.-.'r'-I-I-Z".-'.r':-:!.'r€'5-I-:"d'§':" ' " 5'1‘:-.".".-.".':1.i'I'*:':-I-:':':'I-Z-I-' .*2-3-:-:-C-:-2-:-:-I-:-I-:-:-:-:-i-Z-I-I-1-I-1"I-I-I-I-1-I-H-I-iii:-3'2" I-1'1-1'2-1-I-ﬁr:-I-I‘:-I-I-1-'1-I-1':-Z-91-I-Z-3':-I-1':-Z-".':-I-I-I-I-2-I-I-Z-I-1-I-1+1-:-I-Z-I-I-1-I-I-I-Z-Z-1-I-31-l-Z-3-I-I-I-I-I-Z-I-I-I-I-I ------ - 

, gméa id 2 

 Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
, 0 All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at
«  Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99

 Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable
i  1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95 , 
6' Saturday" Night Prime Rib I
1  Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95

   

/‘/

  

463-7969

\/\/\ \/\

I

   

/‘/‘/‘V /‘/‘/‘/‘/"/‘/‘/‘/‘/V

\

      
     
   
     
   
   

All Seniors interested in a
career in commercial or
consumer banking, 1st Union
Bank cordially invites you to
attend a reception to leam
more about career oppor-

mck amp tumties in the banking industry.

 
 
  
   
  
  
  

 
   

55' _ o
 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day. Wednesday, January 20, 1993
.  4 miles North on Route 11 S I . H 7 9
3-! . . -
‘  We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell umnl 0uSe9 p'm'
i IILN: -' 2'1. .-."l-I-"C--5"-C-'1."1I-' I-1-C-3-I-'12 '11-'"-I'1':'3'14'I'I'I'i'Z-i-3'5-1-2-I-C-I-I-I-I-Z-I-I-I-2-2-Z-I-1-I-I-1-I-I-I-I-I-E'1'I-1-1-1-'-.-I-I-I-I-i-I-I-I-I-I-I-.-‘J-I I-C!-I-I-J-I-II-I-1-i I-I-I-1'!-I-MI-I-I-I-I-.-.-.-.-IIII-1-I-1+I-I-I-i-I-I-I-I-I-P1-I-I-I-i-2-!-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-2-.-.
, , .
r_—gg—Q—Qn-QQu—-QQ——Qnn—1
* STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAllTATION.FL 3331 _ .
: : ciudiotronics
, 9 . ....,....2:;.i°.:..°::.::*:".:.“:;:.i.:.:'ii.;':.°::.:.°°.*:§::::3.°.:.*:.‘ . YES! iwamvismmsrenmanrcma-t . *°°'°'“°‘°'°*““‘“*°
" credit cards-fin your name.” EVEN IF You ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed nnd s'5 which is 100% refundable ii not I ggggg §‘f;‘,;’,E
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BE!-DRE! . appmved ,mmed,a1c,y_ . TOSHM MARANTZ
VISA!’ and MastcrCard® the credit cards you I I KEF CWD
J deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | NAME | BOSTON DEFINWVE
STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMENT— , . KUPSCH 3AZ°°'<‘~
‘ — -- o
. . E”E“§‘ir*%r”§¥:‘iSt'3rr§r"é’i"cIf’e.‘§§?rI?ie”'nr‘“ire.' ‘S’ I ADDRESS 1 - . :::i:i:.i.i.*i%i.*a:.P:.<hW
REPAlR$—AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE _ ZIP I I ,‘,f§§,'2‘,§§‘;‘;,,’§,‘,‘§;”c‘;E,‘;';’.§‘”‘”‘
 “‘»N‘ﬁ :   : : i'ii’.iissTEERri"c‘::iERhigc/)siiis|iiRi"oig<s:ovER
, 5 metric No credit I SIGNATURE I (800) 468-6667
0‘5;l\|:‘5¢¢o “E? 7'0 security deD0-‘Sit! ' norm Mastacnid Isa registered tndermrk drmaemurd iniornauomi. Inc. ' Corner of Ogden &Starkey Roads
. 0usI;0,.¢1 9‘ ‘ I Visa Is a rcglslcred uaderrndr drvisix USA. Inc and VISA iniormdenei I Overlooking Tangleiwood Mall
011 Approval absolutely guaranteed so 0 5,0,0, ,t,,¢.,..°.. 100% ouAnAN.'.EEm ' 2750 Ogden Road- Roanoke
1 __ _ 1

 

 

Writer blasts
gender bias

D TIMES, from page 1

pets. And when the regular White House
correspondent was hung over, or it was
the weekend, or he was away, then I got
to cover the president of the United
States,” Robertson said.

The seven women reporters repre-
senting all the women of the Times
settled their case out of court. The
Times agreed to give the women back
pay, but denied any wrong doing.

So Robertson wrote a book about
sexual discrimination at the Times, The
Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men,
and The New York Times, named for
the Press Club balcony that Robertson
considers “the ugliest symbol of dis-
crimination in joumalism.”

Robertson said she wrote the book
for all the women whose excellence in 
journalism was ignored by the Times g
and for all women journalists to come.

Robertson won the Pulitzer Prize
for her feature story on toxic shock

Deal me in

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

syndrome, based on her own struggle
with the disease.

Robertson is also the author of “Get-
ting Better: Inside Alcoholics Anony-

Kappa Alpha members (I to r) Jeff Tibbals, Matt Strock, Torn Washmon and Jeff McEIroy play
spades in their newly renovated fraternity house Wednesday. The fraternity moved in to the
Nelson Street house last week after a 14-month absence.

mous.”

Seniors find careers at CD&P office

By CRAIG BURKE
Phi Staff Writer

As graduation looms ahead, most seniors have
more on their minds than just classes.

Whether they plan to go to graduate school or
hope to find a job, the majority of seniors at Washing-
ton and Lee are contemplating their lives after gradu-
ation.

The search for the perfect graduate program or the
right job often leads students to the Career Develop-
ment and Placement Office.

The goal of the CDPO is to help students explore
career possibilities and get interviews that could lead
to jobs, Associate Dean of Students and Director of
Career Services Rick Heatley said.

But in practice, the office is more helpful to some
students than to others.

Companies who do signiﬁcant hiring as a result of
on-carnpus interviews are usually looking for ac-

. counting or economics majors, Heatley said.

“They seem to be the only companies who will
recruit on small campuses,”Heatley said. ‘‘That’s not
just at W&L. It’s the same at all small schools.”

As a result, many seniors find they must look in
other places as their job search intensifies.

Some German majors rely on summer internships
to get their first post-college job, Professor of Ger-
man Roger Crockett said.

“Many German students intern with companies in
Germany during the summer,” Crockett said. “A
number of job opportunities arise as a result of these
internships.”

Crockett said he thinks the CDPO is excited to get
jobs available to foreign-language majors, but such
jobs are increasingly rare.

“Many of our students are double majors, and
they rely on their other major in looking for jobs,”
Crockett said.

Associate Professor of French Russell Knudson
agrees that foreign language jobs are hard to find.

“Careers in languages are often specific and re-
quire further education,” Knudson said.

He said many French majors use the language to
give their resumes an added dimension, relying on a
second major, such as economics or journalism,
when they begin looking for work.

Heatley said he realizes that on-carnpus recruiting
for non-business and economics majors is rare.

“It is a myth, however, to say that the CDPO only
looks out for business majors,” he said. “We try to be
as diversified as possible.”

Heatley said one of the difﬁculties at W&L is the
small size of many of the departments. For example,
companies hesitate to recruit for computer science
jobs when there are fewer than five majors on carn-
pus, Heatley said.

“The solution for these other students is to pursue
other avenues, such as job fairs and off-carnpus job
searches,” he said. A

Professor of Chemistry Michael Pleva said com-
panies looking for chemistry majors carmot do much
at W&L.

“We don’t turn out many chemistry majors who
are looking for jobs,” he said. “Most go on to gradu-
ate school, so companies aren’t going to find a lot of
people here.”

Not everyone will find a job through the CDPO,
but many students ﬁnd the extra help to be worth-
while.

“I stop by the ofﬁce at least twice a week,” said
senior Teresa Williams. “I don’t know if I’ll find a
job through the CDPO, but the office has helped me

4 get started in my search for a job.”

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1993

C-School hunts.
new econ prof *

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Contributing Writer

Southern California was the place
to be last week for three W&L eco-
nomics professors who traveled to
Anaheim to attend a convention and
select a new economics professor to
replace Professor Edward C. Atwood,
who will retire in June.

Assistant Professor of Economics
Michael Anderson, Associate Profes-
sor Art Goldsmith, and departmenthead
Bruce Herrick interviewed 16 appli-
cants chosen from more than 150 who
responded to a magazine advertise-
ment for the new teaching position.

“We were very optimistic about the
quality of people we saw,” Herrick
said. “The convention gave us a chance
to meet and interview the talent.”

Herrick said he was interested in
applicants who show good teaching
skills rather than those who have done
research or written important papers.

Anderson, Goldsmith, Herrick and
Dean of the Commerce School Larry
Peppers narrowed the list of 16
interviewees to three candidates.
Herrick said those three potential pro-
fessors will be invited to visit campus
this winter.

During their visits, Herrick said the
applicants will make public presenta-
tions, and students will be asked their

opinions of the candidates. Othermem— '
bers of the economics department will .
then be able to judge the applicants on
how they respond to students. “ThQre
will be student input into the hiring
decision,” Herrick said.

Herrick would not reveal any infor-
mation about the three finalists, saying
only that the applicants chosen in Ana-
heim had the qualities that were most
desired by the other professors herd.

Herrick also would not say if a
woman or a minority was among the
finalists to replace Atwood. He did say
that if the last two candidates have
exactly equal talent, and one of them
was a woman or a minority, he would

choose to “diversify” the department. ,

But professors say that anyone will

have a tough job replacing Atwood, V

who came to Washington and Lee in
1953 and has served as dean of stu-
dents and dean of the Commerce
School.

Atwood said that when he retirts,
he will move to Connecticutto be closer
to his family.

With Atwood’s departure, Dean of
Students David Howison said he and
his family will move into Atwood’s

home, the Lee-Jackson House, behind I

Graham-Lees dormitory. Q

“I know we’ll like living on cam-
pus,” Howison said. “It’s a beautiful
home and it will also be a lot closer to
the school.”

New Va. license .
foils fake attempts

By AMY YARCICH
Phi Contributing Writer

The Virginia Department of Motor
Vehicles is issuing anew, tamper-proof,
digitalized driver’s license that will be
almost impossible to fake.

“The next time a student renews his
or her Virginia license it will be in the
digitalized format,” said Jeanne
Chenault, public relations coordinator
for the DMV in Richmond.

When someone applies for a new

license, his picture will be taken by a
video camera and the image stored in
the DMV computers. For a duplicafe
license, workers can call up the video
picture.

“This will make it easier for restau-
rant and bar owners to look at the
license and determine if the person is
21,” Chenault said.

Palms manager Cindy Campbtﬂl
said her bar sees few fake licenses.

“There ’s never aproblem with W&L
students,” Campbell said.

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
ALASKA SUMMER

 

 

  
   

 

  

  

     
  
  
        
 

 

  
    
        
 
    
 
   
    

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

.94’:/‘*,

    

I”

 

   

rileti they ggrtl asitizeo
Mucll To ’lI~lElK 1Zei.iEF /MAT

(‘cg 1/V46 1c~1€0£N\A'l‘1'o;~1 CALI» -

4.m«t202

January

26 & 27 at 8:00 M
LENFEST CENTER

Tickets & Reservations 463-8000 0 NOOII - 4 PM ' M011daY thru Friday

14117

 

   
   
 
 
  
 

#6

 

 

ggudf ‘/1563* @
GE‘ gTvt7:'17

  

    

 

 

EMPLOYMENT ' "j.'g?‘

FISHERIES-Students Needed! Earn / 

$600+ per week in canneries or % 1:4’ we‘,

:4,00r0+ per Epntllt En fishindgBboat(;. g 5.’

I66 ranspor 1011 ooman 031' . . . 1.‘ ' ~
 Ladws'Shoes, Clothmg g . sf"
em I t ll: ° _
:1‘_’%,’;:;’_’;;£,*;’;’,:j’5“{5“I§,jt_sA5342 23 N I st and Accessories é  , Op 60” Me
In em mp oymeut ervices __ Ma n _ (703) 453.5988 /  =.._ Woke 091.4 A: ID I: -r W
Achievement Through Adventure / E _)gAt~|\l“9 W [:5
='ssh"3~‘3"°"<5i3"“"3i"-i-i75'§’°“55"»=hAi355'-i‘¥*i’7m-  H‘§2“§:§:5'5éwE::f'¢:l:*::fT;4gojnH ‘ﬁfﬁﬁjnvégjggn " 0 0
(“——‘—‘.—“—————.————-\ ’ E - ° ‘ ,  ..w I /
page .4 N ueL%F“’*"‘   .. , »
  um - BIIIIIE ,, ' I l
102 W. Washington St. 3 . . ‘ j .
 , EANINE Qememsgggo «,1 .
_ WINTER SALE!!  4» Aommo .,m,..i””f ,
Suits & Sportcoats . . . . . . . . . . . 20-50% Off  6 SMWED °”T°‘+leKMi~o, 2
IV)V1nter Outerwear Coats . . . . . . . . 25-50% Off ‘  1,
ress Top Coats. . . . . 20% Off :5 \ : A ‘
 5 ,  ' 73¢] gap/EMEEKED j
Sweaters ._ . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 30% Off IQ» tzﬂm WM, AN, 
Casual Shirts (Rugby& Chamois). . . 30-50% Off ___ Acvrjhléy izeAu.~i _ '_ //g
Gloves, Scarves, & T-Necks. . . . . . . 50% Off  ~ ~  erwvo-.  _; ‘
Other Items Reduced ”«,  I 3, S 4’ i ’
\Visa Mastercard Student Charge 463-5383 J  ., we V«|"ibLE Evenme em: '8Aék.//.. "u. ’
W i Evenruxev WNMT W) | W?
Chrlstopher Parkenlng   wsWI°   °
’“ Ttus 7...

    

tuﬁy WERE Just’
CA Vcroo :4 0-loresaieizsv. /
/,, .

W

  

 

A»

counci-

NSOAAL IrI$'l'i'l'()Tr: on Dave A605: .

‘3.T'/’r:FAi2.Tute LIT of‘ tlearzu

Aﬂo ffvr/um 5522s/ices.

 

vr

4r

  
  

-

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1993

6%.

u.s.DfAIicHE  ,-

 
  

~ H|_ns
ME N5 I.OW

 Strong second half

\

_ ., 6‘ -
i ’. :4 ‘_ qf. r I‘   .

iounouxi
ienou

ADDITIONAL PURCHASE

SEMI-BONELESS
'« WHOI. °"§i'iiii"i+'iiii‘o°" 
‘tr HAM ......... ..LB. 0
._ EREsH
., GROUND I 
ROUND ...... ..LB. 0

. HT
T SLICED
' ACON i2oz. PKG. 099

    
 
     
 
 
 
  
  

  

 
  

\
, \

         
    

    
   

EMONS ..... ..E!>(R’/e 

'o‘n"i'ii‘i§is......£t{99

DANCY OR CLEMENTINE1
ANGERINES ........... ..EA.e

    

OOOOOOOOLBO

  
    
     
 

 

C

30-40 CT.

" LARGE

coRi'i oR
GREEN BEANS

 

ii’ 89

 

REDUCED PRICE

 

AP'i’=|.E
JUICE

64 OZ.

   

REDUCED PRICE

 
 

  
  

s6'i=r
MARGARINE
a‘o‘vv"i

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

REDUCED PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR

PEPSI COLA

 

Prices Effective Throu h Januar

ii

ﬂesday, fanua

. Prices In This Ad Etiective Wﬁcinesciay January 13 Throu
On|y.We Reserve The Rig tTo Limit Quantities. None

95

oi

I9, I993

19 1993. n Mecklenbur County Stores

To Dea ers. e Gladiy Accept Federai Fgooci Stamps.

Ct VICTORY, from page 8

The Generals had one
more chance this week to
end the drought against an-
other ODAC rival, the Hor-
nets of Lynchburg.

The Generals would trail
at halftime and for the first
few minutes of the second,
then a 12-minute period
would turn into the Bryan
Watkins show and that
would be all she wrote for
the seven-game losing steak.

The play in the ﬁrst half
was pretty sloppy at some
points; there were a number
of turnovers, ill-advised
passes that wound up as
steals, just lack-luster play.

W&L trailed by three at
the half, and according to
Canfield, were lucky to do
so.

“If it wasn’t for our de-
fense, we might have been
down 10 or 20 at halftime."

Bryan Watkins entered
the second after sitting for
all of the first and responded
with an incredible drive-do-
a-360-and-bank-it—off-the
board-shot. It was the igni-
tor the Generals were look-

Photo by Jameson Eeonai, The Ringu Phi

    

Matt Newton (with the ball) and Robert Miggins head down court to set-up
the W&L offense against Mary Washington. Miggins has been on fire this
season, shooting 66 percent from the floor.

3-point range and 16 points
in all. He was W&L’s lead-
ing scorer and didn’t see ac-
tion for the first 22 minutes.

“Bryan finally played the
way he should,” Canfield
said. “His drive was a form

ﬂoor, the game was still up
for grabs.

Cummings, the 6-7 jun-
ior transfer from VCU was
on fire. The Hornets had a
go-to guy and Cummings did
all he could.

first win since Nov. 28.

' “Pmhappyforthe guys,”
Canfield said, “this will help
them a little bit.

“I'm hoping this some-
thing more than a win,” he
said. “Maybe this is the step

ing for. of leadership; and then he In 19 minutes ofaotlon, we need to take.” _ _
It tied the score at 46 and sankthe three andthatpicked Cummings finished 34 W&L can savor their win
the Generals never looked the team up.” points on 11-of-16shooting, for about 20 hours and then
back. With hindsight it can be including 3-of-4 from 3- it’s back onto the court to
Watkins finished his 12- said the Generals had the pointland,andsixrebounds. getreadyfor Randolph-Ma-
minute stint going 6-for-6 game well inhand, but with But even his efforts could con, who visits W&L on
from the ﬂoor, 4-for-4 from Anthony Cummings on the not deny the Generals their Saturday.
 &  Fumlture Dealers
For your extra pieces oi furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

463-2742

Reporters
Ad Salesmen

up your résumé

The Fling-tum Phi
wants help for winter term:

Production Assistants

The Phi uses Aldus PageMaker, Mi-
crosoft Word, De|taGraph and Aldus
Freehand. Proficiency in at least one
of these programs is expected in the
business world today!

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Bball-W&L 87,Lynchburg 77 (4-8)
MSwim-W&L 137.5,Catholic 67.5(4-0)
WSwim-W&L 143,Mary Bald. 93 (5-0)
Wrestle-W&L 33,Davidson 18 (1-1)

PAGE 8

making

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

Last week it seemed as if
head Washington and Lee
wrestling coach Gary Franke
felt akin to Atlas as he set out
to bear the troubles of the
W&L wrestling world on his
back.

His team’s youth, inexpe-
rience and number all seemed
to foretell of a year of certain
doom.

What a difference a week
makes. '

The problems that existed
one week ago are far from
solved, but with a new recruit
and a win, the Generals, for
now, are world-beaters.

W&L hosted Davidson
College of North Carolina on
Sunday, and gave them athor-
ough drubbing, 33-18.

W&L was faced with the
prospect of competing with
wrestlers at only six weight
classes, but the wrestling gods
looked down favorably upon
coach Franke’s band, and gave
four of the six victories.

In addition, new recruit
Matt McCollum offered his
services for the remainder of
the season at the previously
uninhabited 190-pound
weight class.

Sophomore Kevin Batteh
moved up to 177 pounds, and
an injured Julian Montague
found a new role on the team
as he took a forfeit win for
W&L (Davidson had no wres-
tler at that weight).

Batteh and McCollum were
unable to win their matches.
That didn’t stop Rob Sands,
Eric Shirley, Adam Williams,
Curt Futch, Owen Smith, and
Lea Abercrombie from sweep-
ing their weight classes.

Shirley, Futch, and

their talents

Wrestling:

bestof

  

Sands

Abercrombie each pinned
their opponent at 134, 150 and
167 respectively.

Futch pinned the same
wrestler who had previously
pinned him at the VMI Invita-
tional before the winter holi-
day.

Sands remained the only
undefeated W&L wrestler at
2-0 with a 8-2 win over his
Davidson opponent.

Franke said Davidson's in-
ability to change their line-up
helped the Generals’ execute
their game plan.

“Davidson had only nine
people, so they couldn’t re-
ally juggle their line-up,”
Franke said.

“We were able to watch

‘ wlilat was going on and change

our line-up accordingly.”

The Generals will get a
chance to further test its new
line-up combinations atatour-
nament at Johns Hopkins this
Saturday.

Lebanon Valley will join
W&L and the host team in the
tournament.

The Generals participated
in the Lebanon Valley Tour-
nament in ear1yDecembcr and
finished a respectible 19th
considering the rash of inju-
ries and sickness the befell
the team earlier this year.’

The team hopes to remain
healthy as they face a run of
four consecutive tournaments
within the next month.

S

(J11: iaittg-tum Iﬂltt

PORTS  

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

Watkins ‘drives’ W&L to win '

Generals’ losing streak stops at seven with Hornets the victim

By SEAN O’RotJRi<1-:
Phi Sports Editor

Last week I compared the sea-
son the men’s basketball team
was having to the Cyclone roller
coaster.

This week, I thought a cliche
might be best able to capture the
feeling of the tearn’s last three
games, say, “It was the best of
times, it was the worst of times.”.

But then again, a cliché is so,
well, cliched.

Then I thought of compari-
sons to some professional bas-
ketball teams that are having
rough seasons. But I felt the Gen-
erals deserved more credit than,
let’s say, the Dallas Mavericks.
(Sorry Maverick fans).

Finally I came to the realiza-
tion that the best way to explain
the past week would be to let the
three games do the talking.

I mean, what better way is
there to tell the tale of three to-
tally different games than to tell
the tales.

FirstcameO1dDoniinionAth-
letic Conferencepowerandmost--
hated foe, Roanoke College.

The Maroons came to the
Warner Center with a record of
7-2, 3-1 in the ODAC. A record
that preceded them.

Head coach Verne Canﬁeld
was well aware of Roanoke’s
offensive punch, especially their
frontline players. Canﬁeld knew
the team would need to play ﬂaw-
less basketball to win.

Well, they really didn’t.

The Generals actually came
out strong, hanging with Roanoke
for more than ten minutes of the
ﬁrst half. At one point the score
was dead even, 25 apiece.

Then the game got weird. It
became a game of spurts. The
Maroons would run off ten
straight points; W&L would re-
spond with ﬁve of their own, and
so-on-and-so-forth. «

The problem was Roanoke
always seemed to have the larger
rims and pulled away rriid-way
through the second.

Canﬁeld could not explain
why the game went as such.

finish.

‘‘I really don’t have an expla-
nation for it,” he said. “It was just
a crazy kind of game.”

From a purely statistical stand-
point, the Maroons were the su-
perior team. They outshot the
Generals from the ﬁeld, from
outside the 3-point arc and from
the charity stripe. But W&L
played some inspired basketball
in spurts and that is what kept in
most of the game.

“We played hard in spurts,”
Canﬁeld said, “I’ve got to give
them that. Sooner or later that
will pay off.”

The Generals fell 90-73.

Two days later, the Eagles of
Mary Washington College came
callingat the WarnerCenter.T'lie
Eagles entered the game 2-4, with
this being only the second game
they played since Dec. 19.

This was a strange and excit-
ing contest right down to the ﬁ-
nal buzzer.

Canﬁeld has been trying des-
perately to ﬁnd combinations that
would work together and pro-
duce positive results. So he re-
sorted to mass substitutions. He
started five, then substituted ﬁve,
then sent the original ﬁve back.

He said it helped to instruct
each group.

“With this method I could tell
all ﬁve what to do and give them
instructions. It’s ﬁne to do in the
first half, but you want you best
out there in the second.”

The scheme might or might
not have worked depending on
who you talked to. The fact still
remained, the Generals trailed
after the ﬁrst 20 minutes, 44-41.

The deﬁcitwas tough to swal-
low for W&L because they had a
deﬁnite height advantage but
were being out-rebounded and
had few offensive rebounds to
their credit.

Canﬁeld said this caused the
three—point deﬁcit.

“We did a good job on the
defensive end, but we shot our-
selves in the foot. We had 2-on-
1 and 3-on-2 opportunities and
didn’t convert.

“But we had almost no offen-
sive rebounds and couldn’t get
any second shots.”

minute.

With the score tied at 83-83
and 38 seconds left, Mary Wash-
ington set up for one final shot to
win or go to overtime.

At the ten second mark the
Eagles drive for the hoop, one
shot is attempted and blocked by

Robert Miggins.

The Eagles get it back and
attempt a “baby hook” from the
left side of the basket with three

    

M-n-ow 
Phi Staff Writer in an utterly
dom i natin g
Bombs fell on Iraq. Ross Perot chat- performance.
ted with Larry King. The W&L swim The men
teams won. Not much has changed this avenged last
week. year’s defeat - _
The Washington and Lee men’s and to Catholic H h
women’s aquatics drowned any sor- with a 137.5— 3 er
rows of the year gone-by with victories 67.5 wipeout

over Catholic University on Saturday
in their first meets of 1993.
Furthermore, the women sank Mary
Baldwin Collegewednesdaynight with
a 143-93 victory to improve to 5-0.
The Generals won 13 of 14 events
in the meet against MB. Senior Claire
Dudley, sophomores Brandi Henderson
and Susan Fisher, and freshman
Rebekah Prince won three races each

of CU, Saturday. Six different Gener-
als came away with victories as the
squad totaled nine wins in the meet’s
eleven races.

Freshmen were leaving wake all
over the pool, as Justin Dardani won
both the 500-yard freestyle and the
200-yard individual medley. Class-
mates Craig Sears and Frank Darden
each claimed a first and a second place

Men’s head coach Page Remillard
was cautious going into the meet in
spite of W&L’s strong start this season
(4-0).

Some of his swimmers were com-
ing off injuries and Remillard was
concerned about some of the men
who were unable to return to Lexing-
ton early over vacation.

He was hoping the team would
not repeat last year’s performance
when, he said, the Generals “did not
respond” to Catholic’s challenge.

Saturday, though, the Generals sim-
plyblew Catholicoutofthepool,claim-
ing individual wins in the 50, 100, 200
and 500-yard freestyles; the 200-yard
backstroke, the 200-yard breaststoke
and the 200-yard IM.

W&L also took the 400—yard med-

ley-relay and the top two spots in the
400—yard freestyle relay.

The undefeated Generals will next
swim against Buffalo State on Thurs-
day in the Cy Twombly Pool, and then
Saturday at Georgetown.

The women will also be racing in
those meets. After three meets in four
days, women’s coach Kristin Jacobs
expects her team to be pretty exhausted
by Saturday.

The afternoon competition at
Georgetown will be even more diffi-
cult for the women in that the Hoyas
outnumber the Generals by 3-1.

“By Saturday we’ll be pretty tired,”
said Jacobs. “We’ll need'to race like
we did against Catholic.”

The W&L women won eight of the
eleven races Saturday, but mustered

only a 104-88 win due to their small '

 

This Week:
Bball-R-MC 1/16 3pm;at E&H 1/20
Swim-Buffalo St. 1/14 7pm(M&W); at
G’town 1/16 (M&W) 0
Wrestle-at Johns Hopkins Toumy 1/ 16
IT-Lynchburg Invit. (M&W) 1/16

seconds to go.
Airball 1

straight defeat.
W&L loses, 85-83.

Canﬁeld said afterwards that
it is impossible ‘to gauge how -a
team will respond to a loss like

that.

“No coach knows how a team
will react to this. Everyone
thought we ’d win, but we didn’t
play with spirit and enthusiasm.”

Generals’ swimmers are cruising into midseason form.

size.

Regardless, the women have shown
that quality has counted morethanquan-
tity by consistently taking the top spots

M in nearly all of their events.

Prince continued her outstanding
frosh campaign with three victories
over Catholic: the 500—yard free, 200-
yard IM, and the 200-yard butterﬂy. In
the 200-yard IM, Prince came within
0.2 seconds of Dudley’s school record.

Dudley contributed two wins in the
200-yard breaststroke and 50-yard
freestyle.

Henderson chipped in with wins in
the 100 and 200-yard freestyles. Fisher
and freshman Jill Sheets ﬁnished sec-
ond in two events.

If both the Generals’ men and
women can pull off a couple of victo-
ries this weekend, the two squads will

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi
Forward Darren Johnson deposits two of his six points against Mary Washington on
Monday. Ironically, it will be this same basket where the Ea
the game-winning basket with no time left on the clock.
The Generals hung tough,
though. They took the lead and
gave it back, took the lead and
saw the Eagles take it back. It
went like that until the final

But, low and behold, the
Eagles’ Scott Pate is on the other
side to receive the gift, and his
two-foot lay-up with no time left
sent the Generals to their seventh

JANUARY 14, 199.

The losses hid the fact" that
some of the Generals were put-
ting up some decent numbers.

Cam Dyer scored 16 against
Roanoke and 19 against the
Eagles. Mark Connelly pogted
17 and 10-point games respec-
tively. But the Generals could
never get all five guys on the
court on the same page. *

“A coach can’t make the
chemistryforhistearn/’Canﬁeld
said. “The guys have to do giat
on the court.”

CI See VICTORY, page 7

  

be mid-way to undefeated seasons.
With some of the other Generals
t e a m s
struggling,
these two
have given
W&L fans
afewthings
to feel good
about.
Neither
team can
b e c o m e
c o n t e ii t,
h o w 9 v e r .
Both are rather young in some places,
so the middle of the season could‘
become a vital part of the season.
With meets against Emory,
Swarthmore and Johns Hopkins stﬂl to ,
come, the season is just starting.

 

Henderson.

 

   

 

We’ll make you look good!
Come to us for all of your design needs.
Ads, ﬂyers, logos, résumés, faxes, and quick copies.

PHONE: 463 - 1712

M Lee
F iatgllugh Lee
M.Miley

iiﬁniimunis
~|3illlll?il|

   

125 W. NELSON ST. 0 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

W&L Art

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “RE. Lee”

Signatures:

Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate re-strike. hand-colored
W&L and R.E.Lee limited edition art
Sculptures by Ron Tunison
George and Mary Washington pieces

4 East\Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday
Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. .
(703) 464-6464

S; 44

FAX #: 463 - 6918 lg!

RE. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher

E. Nelson St., Lexington

Valley 
Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

 

Read
the
Phi

fFall Fashions For “The Student Body. ”\
50°/o-80°/o Off
Every Day V

TGIF

 

, OUTLETS
30 South Main Street Downtown Lexington
C Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 463-9730 J

11 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

Robby Jone!
(703) 463-2022

—_._

SPRING BREAK ’93-
SELL TRIPS, EARN i
CASH & GO FREE ,

Student Travel Services a
is now hiring campus t

representatives. Ski
packages also available.
CALL 1-800-648-4849.

and
Staff:

Focuﬂy

You con still subscribe to the Phi
ond have your poper delivered! ’
Coll X8581 or X8582 for information. .

 

 

 
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
     
  
   
   
   
    
   
    
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
           
      
 

gles’ Scott Pate will pugint

   
 
    
  
    
     
     
     
     
    
    
     
   
  
  
   
 

  
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
    

  
  

   
  
    

     
  
     
     

 

5,

C P

3*-I4

.7'[£9{£ COMES THE 13211272

ﬂluthor Elntertains
with Stories
of (I/I/eC[£[i11ﬂ5 gone ﬂlwry V

t,';~é’\F’T;$i'TY LIBRARY
WAgHHlElGTiOl‘li§l LEE umvettsm

;ggt%RV2\' ,
Generals Stumble

Basketball Team Frustrated

by Two ODAC Losses

IE

 

VOLUME 92, NO.15

he ‘tiling-tum ljﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Hail to the Chief

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

education.

Cadets at the Virginia Military In

stitute stand at attention Wednesday in honor of the in
usually sends a drill team to presidential inaugarations, but their application to participate this year was denied. On Tuesday, VMI
J lawyers filed an appeal to the United States Supreme Court in a fin

auguration of President Bill Clinton. VMI

al attempt to continue the institute’s tradition of single-sex

I .Will addresses Convocation

i
A

,1

Author asks America to rethink education; ODK l

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi
.WilI mixes humor into his serious message on Convocation Day.

City organizes
I -film premiere

By MOLLY APTER
Phi Contributing Writer

It's not Hollywood, but if all
goes as planned, Lexington will
have its own authentic movie
premiere for “Sommersby.”

A group of planners includ-
ing Lexington Downtown De-
velopment Association Director

' Diane Herrick and LDDA Presi-

dent Caner Lowry are trying to
organize a local premiere of
“Sommersby,” parts of which
were shot in Lexington last June.

The only hitch, plarmers say,
is that they don’t know on what

‘ night the premiere will be.

“Everything’s not really set,”
Lowry said. “We’d like to have
two showings [of the movie] the
nightbefore it opensnationwide.”

Rightnow, the movie is sched-
uled to open in Lexington on

9 Feb. 5, the same date it will open

across the country, Lowry said,
but the committee has asked the
movie’s distributor for permis-
sion to show the movie on Feb. 4.

ButLowrysaid, “We willhave
a showing Friday as apremiere if
we can’t do it Thursday.”

“A limited number of tickets
will be set aside for dignitaries,”
Lowry said. “The rest will be
available to the public on a first-
come basis.”

Herrick said tickets will cost

a $15 to $20.

Herrick said tickets will in-

clude a $5 voucher good at
LDDA-member restaurants the
night of the premiere.

Herrick said the committee is
trying to involve most of the city
in the festivities by asking down-
town stores to stay open late th
night of the premiere. —

Herrick said the premiere,
whichever night it is, will in-
clude search lights and carriage
rides from the Lexington Car-
riage Company for local resi-
dents who were extras in the film.

“We tentatively have permis-
sion to close down Nelson Street
from Main to Jefferson” streets
in front of the State Theatre,
Herrick said. City Council will
consider the measure tonight.

Proﬁts from the premiere will
go toward furthering the preser-
vation of the downtown area
which brought “Sommersby” to
Lexington in the first place,
Herrick said ~

“Lexington was chosen be-
cause very little had to be done to
transform it into a town of the

1800s,” Herrick said.

Lexington’s utility wires were
buried underground in the 1970s.
The production crew still had to
remove the short light poles
which line the streets.

The crew also covered the
streets with dirt and built false
store fronts.

The movie, which stars Rich-
ard Gere and Jodie Foster, was
filmed mostly in Bath County.

By RICHARD WEAVER

to channel their leadership abilities
into improving America’s education
system.

“We have at-
tempted in the
last 40 years to
measure the cali-
ber of education
not by measur-
ing cognitive
outputs...but in-
stead by ﬁnancial outputs: future sal-
ary, how big is the school, how many
books in the library...It’s very clear
that something needs to be done about
the philosophy of education,” Will
said.

The leadership honor society in-

C] For excerpts from WlIl’s
Convocation address, see
page 2.

the community.

nitlates 27

ducted 27 students and four honorary
initiates in front of a capacity crowd

Ph‘ Smff Wm" in Lee Chapel. The ceremony coin-

cided with the l23rd celebration of

Columnist George Will told Omi- Founder’s Day, the birthday of Gen.
cron Delta Kappa initiates Tuesday Robert E. Lee.

Following Will's speech, ODK
President Jay Darden addressed the
crowd about the nature of leadership.

“It was
Woodrow Wil-
son who said,
‘The true leader
is one who is
quick to know
and to do the
things that the

hour needs. ’ Real leadership is rooted
in action and in the example that we
set for others," Darden said.

ODK, which was founded at W&L
in 1914, recognizes leadership and
service experience in the campus and

JANUARY 21, 1993

Record 22 I
depledge

By LEIGH ALLEN and FAITH TRUMAN
of The Ring-tum Phi Staff

Just two weeks into formal pledgeship,
more than 22 men have depledged frater-
nities, seven more than in all of the 1991-
1992 year.

Some fraternity members and univer-
sity officials say the increase is the result
of freshmen who are committing more
time to academics and questioning the
value of Washington and Lee's fraternity
system.

“W&L has risen to an academic level
that brings people in who are not pre-
pared for the fraternity system,” said one
freshman who depledged a fraternity be-
cause he said it was too singular.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said he
believes academics played a role in the
increase. .

“Every year we’re dealing with stu-
dents who are a little more serious about
their work,” Atkins said. “Even in the
semester when they were only supposed
to be social members, they were prob-
ably spending a lot of time with [pledge
responsibi1ities].”

As of Monday, Atkins said 22 fresh-
men depledgedwithout rejoining another
house. Several more have depledged one
house and joined another, and two fresh-
man pledges transferred from W&L.

The Interfratemity Council discussed
the depledgings in a closed meeting on
Jan. 12.

One freshman who depledged said
being in a fraternity damaged his rela-
tionship with other students. He said he
came to W&L thinking students had a
mutual respect for each other and found
fraternities created unnecessary rivalries.

Another freshman who depledged
thinks money is pan of the problem with
the fraternity system.

“The whole pledgeship thing is a joke
and a waste of time. When you consider
how much it costs, it’s just not worth it,"
he said.

Dean of Students David Howison said
fraternities should considerlowering their
fees to allow more students to join.
Howison also said fraternities should
eliminate hazing to keep members.

“I think fraternities with no-hazing
policies will have a definite advantage
over other houses inthe future,” Howison
said.

“The actual line-ups weren’t so bad,”
said one freshman who depledged. “It
was getting called at two o’clock in the
morning to run errands that bothered me.”

Atkins said he hopes fraternities re-
duce the number of hours pledges spend
doing what he says are meaningless tasks
and errands.

“The hours they spend doing things
likepicking uplaundry and gettingnachos
is ridiculous,” Atkins said. “’Ihat’s a waste
of time.”

Many pledges agree.

“They say they do what they do to the
pledge class to bring us closer together,”
one former pledge said. “But running
stupid errands doesn ’t create friendships.”

But one pledge educator said that what
some people consider meaningless er-
rands actually build character and disci-
pline.

“You have to keep the pledges busy.
They have to feel like they have worked
hard and contributed something to the
fraternity before they can join,” he said.

One freshman who depledged said he
chose the wrong house because Rush was
too early in the year.

“I had no clue what the house was
really like when I pledged,” he said. “It
ended up not being the right house for
me.”

IFC President Sam Rock said last week
that moving fraternity Rush later in fall
term, a proposal IFC is considering in its
reevaluation of Rush, might reduce the
number of dissatisfied freshmen.

Atkins said he believes the depledgings
are a bad sign for the fraternity system
because lost pledges means lost revenue.

“This is a marketing problem,” Atkins
said. “Apparently we have a consumer
who is not very happy with the product.”

Atkins said the university has an inter-
est in keeping fraternities’ numbers high
because it relies on the Greek tax to help
pay for Fraternity Renaissance.

But one pledge educator said many
freshmen pledge a fraternity even though

they do not belong in one because frater-

nities are popular at W&L.

“There are people out there who 1

don’t understand the fraternity system,”
he said. “They come to this school and
pledge because everyone else is pledging.
Those who depledge realize that they
don’t want to be involved in the fraternity
system.”

Senior Copy Editor Nikki Magaziner
Contributed to this story.

THE
WILSON

DECADE
Reflecting on 10 years at W&L

Ten years ago this week, John Delane
Wilson took the oath of ofﬁce to become
the 21st president of Washington and
Lee University.

Since then, many things have hap-
pened that have changed the face of
W&Lforever. Coeducation. Gaines Hall.
Fraternity Renaissance. The Lenfest

Center. The Watson Gallery.

But ask Wilson about his accomplishments of the past decade and what does he think

of ﬁrst?

By GREGORY PA1'rERsoN
Phi News Editor

Dumpster fences.

“I remember, this is true, building those little wooden facilities
around the dumpster behind the Bookstore,” Wilson said in an
interview last week.

“I used to come out of the back gate [of Lee House], and there were naked dumpsters there. And
that’s where two—thirds of the students walk. So I said to Jim Arthur, the superintendent of Buildings

and Grounds, one day, ‘Do you suppose we could build a little picket fence around the dumpster?’
“And every time I walk down that alley I take some satisfaction in that.” .

El See WILSON,” page 5

Rush
prompts
concern

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

Sorority Rush is over, but
questions linger as to how it was
conducted and why more women
did not pledge.

“There were concerns ex-
pressed to Panhellenic [Council]
about how different groups were
interpreting Rush rules,” Panhel
President Carrie Eubanks said.

AfterPreference Ni ghtThurs—
day, quota was set at 27 women
for each sorority. Kappa Alpha
Theta, Kappa Kappa Gamma and
Chi Omega each snagged 27,
while Pi Beta Phi got 24.

But Eubanks said more girls
didn’t receive bids this year than
in previous years.

Eubanks said there is no clear
reason why so many women fell
through the system, especially
since the addition of Pi Phi.

Pi Phi National Consultant
Lauren Gross said W&L’s 4-
year-old sorority system still has
some growing to do.

“There’s a lot of potential
here,”Gross said.

Some freshman women say
they are disillusioned with Rush.

“It seemed to me like all the
same girls got asked back every-
where,” one freshman said. “I
felt like the whole thing was just
too competitive.”

 

 

PAGE 2

 

 

Glitz Itiing-tum lﬁlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Familiar face,
new perspective

In two and a half years as a Washington and Lee student,
Gregory Patterson, Phi news editor, had never had aone-on-
one conversation with University President John Wilson.
Last week, Patterson went to Wilson’s ofﬁce to interview
him for the Phi story that begins on today‘s page one: “The
Wilson Decade.”

Patterson questioned Wilson on the brightest and darkest
moments of his career -- from the 1983 transition to
coeducation, to the 1990 bottle-throwing incident and con-
sequent roasting by students. The John Wilson that comes to
life in Patterson’s story doesn’t always ﬁt with the image of
the president widely held by the current student generation.

In subtle contrast to his elegant Washington Hall ofﬁce
with its cleanly polished, antique furniture, Patterson found
Wilson with a loosened collar and without a jacket for their
afternoon interview. Wilson ’s presentation was symbolic of
what Patterson describes as the surprising ease with which
the president talked about the last 10 years.

In reflecting on the interview, Patterson notes that Wilson
almost never uses abbreviations in his speech. He does not
say, “W&L” or“SCC,” for example, but always, “Washing-
ton and Lee” or “Student Conduct Committee.” This ten-
dency indicates the deliberateness and precision with which
Wilson speaks, Patterson speculates, carefully choosing his
words.

Patterson says his research on Wilson and the interview
both gave an impression of the president as a true man of
letters, a staunch and vocal ‘advocate of liberal arts educa-
tion.

“We are born in a sliver of time and place and culture,”
Wilson told The Ring-tum Phi in 1982 in what Patterson
cites as his favorite Wilson quote, “And all that we know of
ourselves and our world if we lived only that life would be
very, very parochial, indeed.”

But Patterson says what surprises him most about Wilson
is his humanity.

“He realizes he has ﬂaws as a president,” Patterson says,
“and he regrets it.”

Wilson’s recollections of the bott]e;tl}roglting girtcgident
bring out his human side in Pattersonfs story.p'Wils9n,to1ld
Patterﬁsoni that ' *suspending the ‘°stude’nts ‘involved’ in the
incident might not have been the right thing to do, and he
acknowledged that his actions might have been inﬂuenced
by emotions. Fraternity Renaissance is, after all, his baby.

“When those things happened to his project,” Patterson
says, “he was hurt by it. He took it personally and reacted to
it like it was an attack against him.”

Patterson says that his interview with Wilson might have
given his story a sympathetic bias, but he maintains that the
story presents a view of the president that students might
ﬁnd enriching. '

“Anytime I spend with someone, I tend to come away
[with the feeling that] I understand him a little more,”
Patterson says. “But hell, I got achance to talk to Wilson one
on one, which is something not many students get to do....
My article might be the only way they can get that same
feeling.” I

— CL, RP

Glitz Iﬂtng-tum lﬂltt

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carnott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummet
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

‘,’ 5: ll

M. L

0
The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

W’?-5)’ MIL GLtr~%'t‘o:I,

171$‘ Ir‘/\0G«vt:,.a.'i‘l0N’S .

/“3'°°" T° 356113 .

True leadership skills elude many.

President Wilson said I was not deterred from the
inaugural festivities. I am in ﬂight.

In Washington, Bill Clinton is on the verge of
learning what Adlai Stevenson knew. He said,
“America is a great and wonderful country, where
any young person can grow up to be president, and
that’s just the risk you have to take.”

 I don’t think that there is, in American history,
anything comparable to the mood swing in this
country between the bombing of Baghdad and 15
months later the burning of Los Angeles. ...Wi1dly
overdone in my judgment, [was the jubilation over]
Desert Storm, [though] a war worth ﬁghting. Still,
the United States and 26 allies defeated a country
with the gross national product of Kentucky.

percent are Hispanic. Eighty-ﬁve percent of students
come from families with no father. The school is rim
by heroic teachers doing their very best, but they say
that one of the conditions of teaching is that they
never assign homework — ever — because, they
say, almost all of their students go home after school
to be parents to their siblings.

We are evolving today in America as a civiliza-
tion where the cities are not primarily important as
centers of culture or commercial vitality, but impor-
tant primarily as burdens. We are experiencing some-
thing today without precedent in American history:
broad-scale urban regression in the midst of general
prosperity.

 We live in the only country in NATO  in

...Equally irrational was the b which children go to
overwhelming despair sleepatnightinparts
aboutthequality of Ameri- of large cities hear-
can life after the riots in GEORGE WILL ing gunfire. We
1-05 An8°1eS- Washin ton Post Writers Grou knowwhattheprolr
This was the context in g p lem is -— it is patho-
which the country began to logical behavior.

decide whether to give the Republican party four
more years. Only four times in American history has
one party controlled the White House for more than
12 years; it is a very long time in our politics. And so
we were prepared to give the outsider the benefit of
the doubt. Mr. Bush campaigned on doubt. He said,
essentially, that Bill Clinton was Henry of Navarre.

You might recall from your history classes that
Henry of Navarre was the king of France who
periodically converted to Catholicism. He was fond
of saying, on one famous occasion, the words that
are a motto of all politicians, “Paris is well worth a
Mass.” The question was, was Bill Clinton what he
said he was, or was he feigning a new faith until he
got to power? We'll have to ﬁnd that out. What we
do know is, the political market has worked in the

United States,‘ in that the ‘ Detno_cratic' party ‘ has I "
. chang‘ed,’or' tried to change, in its perception of itself.

In 1988-, a’ very wise Democrat, before a single
delegate was chosen, looking at the way they’d been
losing elections for generations, including in the
South and the West, said that the Democratic nonri-
nee ought to be part Horace Greeley and part U.S.
Grant: someone who could go west and capture the

South. So they nominated the governor of Massa-
r-hnsettg

This year they learned the law of holes. The law
of holes is, when you're in a hole, quit digging....

[Now Clinton clearly wants] to rekindle the ex-
citement such as it was in the Kennedy years. What
he will discover, I’m afraid, is that the most profound
change in the 32 years since John Kennedy was
president, is the radical decline in the prestige of
government itself. This was reﬂected, I believe, in
the 1992 elections, by the fact that 14 states, given
the chance to vote on term limitations, all voted for
those limitations. In 13 of those 14 states, term
limitations did almost as well as Bill Clinton did. In
14 states, term limitations got more votes than Ross
Perot got in 50 states. There is a general sense that the
political class in the United States is today so gripped
by careerism, so bent on prolonging its professional
life in higher ofﬁce, that it cannot take into account
the difficult decisions in the public interest. Ihappen
to believe that’s correct,

But what the American people are saying is 
that they have a very  skeptical view of the utility
of government itself, partly because of the composi-
tion of government, but most of all because of the
composition of our problems. Let me give three
examples  education, our cities and the conduct of
life in Washington, D.C.

With regard to education, I think many Ameri-
cans believe, frankly, that we are today graduating
the first generation of Americans, from high school,
less well-educated than the generation that came
before. Everyone in this room knows it is perfectly
possible to graduate from an American high school
and be functionally illiterate, unable to read, let
alone write. The reasons for this are complicated;
they begin with the obvious fact that we have the
shortest school year and the shortest school day in
the industrial world. It was formulated for the needs
of a ranching and farming nation in the late 19th
century, when children were needed on the farms in
the late spring and early fall. That is of limited
relevance in south-central Los Angeles. It also is the
case that we have attempted in the last 40 years,
encouraged by public education lobby, to measure
the caliber of education not by measuring cognitive
outputs (measured by national tests of the sort we do
not have and other nations do), but by measuring
instead ﬁnancial inputs: teacher salaries  how big
is the school, how many books in the library. The
problem is, we do not have national testing, but the
market tests sooner or later. And so when the New
York Telephone Company gives an entry-level ap-
titude test to 1 17,000 young people and 1 15,000 fail
—— when Motorola gives an entry-level aptitude test
designed to measure ﬁfth-grade math and seventh-
grade English skills, and 80 percent fail — the
market is giving a test. It's very clear that something
needs to be done about the philosophy of education.

Perhaps choice for schools; there are an array of
ideas, and the country is insisting that we try them.
The most thoughtful Americans understand the prob-
lems with our schools, and they are joined with the
problems with our cities through one great fact, and
that is the distress of many American families.

I was recently at a school in Chicago. In the
school, 85 percent of the students are black, 15

We talk about budget cuts. It costs $5,000 a day
for a neo-natal group to take care of a crack baby. It
costs $60,000 a year in the last year of life in a
hospital for an AIDS patient. Now, as the American
peoplelook at these problems, they look to Washing-
ton, and they don’t like what they see. They see a
government that 30 years ago really believed that it
had so mastered the management of the modern
economy that growth could be studied in a business
cycle, and the great problem for our time would be
the equitable allocation of constant surplus revenues
for pressing needs. That was 30 years ago, when we
announced a “great" society — “good” wouldn’t
suffice — great. Well, times have changed.

 We have not just a United States, but an entire
part of the world that we’ve been carrying since the
end of World War II, gradually, almost absentmind-
edly, translating the idea of civil rights into a doctrine
of economic entitlements, and making enormous
problems to ourselves as a matter of right: huge calls
for the future productivity of the country as a right.
They’re neglecting one great fact and that is the
demographic fact of societies such as ours: the popu-
lation ages.

 I was on the road this morning and I didn’t get
to see the “Today” show, so I don’t know if Willard
did his number, because Willard usually comes out
with a picture of someone 100 years old. Do you
know that in seven years, at the end of the century,
the percentage of Americans 65 or older, nation-
wide, will be what it is in Florida, the retirement
state, today? I don’t know how many of you recently
turned 50. I did. And it’s bad enough to have the
derision of your children, but you begin to receive in
your mail, unbidden, a magazine called [Modem]
Maturity, full of lively and sinewy older people
bursting with health. It comes from the American
Association of Retired Persons, which enrolls you in
a huge lobby, and it takes a Supreme Court injunc-
tion to get off the list. The largest organization in the
United States is the Catholic Church, and the second
largest is the AARP. This is true power, but getting
back to Willard Scott: he holds up a picture and says,
“This is a picture of ‘Elsa Mae Fudge’ and Elsa Mae
is 100 years old.” And as you look at her face on the
screen, she looks every day of it.... [A]tthe beginning
of the 1980s there were 18,000 Americans 100 years
old or older, and that number doubled in the 1980s.
Demographers predict that by the year 2000, there
will be 1 million Americans 100 years old or older.
You could make a city — a very quiet city, a city
without sexually transmitted diseases.

...Less than 15 percent of our gross national
product goes to health care. We don’t realize that a
lot of our health care is optional. We tend in this
country to be transﬁxed by the polio paradigm:
Because technological silver bullets slayed this dis-
ease, we tend to think that those things are the best
medical technologies. We then tend to equate health
with the application of medicine, which results in a
disease-oriented, hospital-centered, high-tech medi-
cine that is too expensive, whereas, in fact, if we
lived as sensiblyas trout or beaver, we wouldn’thave
these problems.

We are the only animal that drinks too much, eats
improperly, doesn’texercise and doesn’t use seatbelts.
If we just did those things we would cut our medical
bill by 50 percent. These are the problems that the
country faces. Thirty percent of all Medicare dollars
are spent on people in their last year of life. The
ethical problems implicit in rationing medicine are
extraordinary.

All the while that the government is gripped with
these problems, all of America must look around and
say that a welfare state, which was supposed to be
ameliorative, may have adverse consequences. If
someone had told us 40 years ago that the elaboration
of the welfare state would coincide with an epidemic
of sexually contracted diseases, an epidemic of teen-
age pregnancy, 1.5 million abortions a year, a perma-
nent underclass in our cities -— that’s what a welfare
state was meant to cure, and it hasn't worked out, and
now the American people are wondering what in fact
is in store for them and the great American promise.

 The great American promise was that we are a
nation of individual rights, individuals striving to
individual happiness as decided by individuals. In-
creasingly in the United States, that promise is being
replaced by a doctrine of group rights. ...[But] the
great romance is gone; I would say that it peaked in
the 1960s and it’s gone, Ithink, for good, particularly

the romance of the central government. It fell victim

to the Great Society promises, which are very fairly «

perceived as promising much more than they do. The
euphoria and prestige of the government began to
evaporate quickly with Vietnam and Watergate.
People began to question the motives of governmeﬁt,
and the whole movement gathered steam in Califor-
nia in 1978 when an initiative passed with severe
limitations on taxes, Proposition 13. Three years
later, a serious tax cut swept through both houses of
Congress, powered by both parties: a general sense
that the Leviathan must be slowed down.

I think there is today a growing gap between the
politics and the culture of the city in which I live. 
I heard a speaker say, “All change in America begins
in the ballot box.” Every page in American history, it
seems to me, refutes that. And that sense that politics
is at the center of American life is very distorted and
very distracted.

I tend to think that change in America begins what
the working blacksmith invents a “self—scouring”
steel plow... that defeated wooden plows, and you can
read this blacksmith’s name today in yellow and
green paint on big machines: John Deere. Change in
America begins when someone such as Eli Whitney

serves as a tutor on a southern plantation, helping to . A

teach people to separate cotton fibers from cotton
seeds.... Change in America begins when Henry Ford
in a Detroit garage has an idea for a vehicle to travel
long distances, made with mass production. Change
in America begins when two brothers in a bicycle
shop tinker with a contraption that will one day
change how America experiences its vast distances.
Change in America begins when a man named Jo
Wesley Hyatt wins $10,000 for inventing billiard
balls not made of ivory, develops a new way of
making something called celluloid for experiences
for which Hollywood was created.

In 1954, a middle-aged, traveling salesman who
sells six-spindled electric mixers caleed multi-mix-
ers, pauses in the parking lot of the McDonald bro —
ers restaurant in San Bemadino, Calif., and says,
“These people are using eight mixers at the same
time.  what do they know?” Ray Kroc invented not
only a great corporation. but also a whole industry.

Change in America is not just material change; it’s
not just words. Change begins with a church in
Massachusetts that has a religious revival that prom-
ises to become the Great Awakening. Change 191
America begins when Harriet Beecher Stowe writes
a novel, or 100 years later when another writer,
Harper Lee writes aTo Kill A Mockingbird. Change
begins when Upton Sinclair writes The Jungle or
Lincoln Steffens writes The Shame of the Cities.
Change in America begins when Mark Twain begins
a distinctly American style of literature. ‘

No good society is set by politics. Anybody should
know this. In fact, the health of America depends on
a growing impatience, which I feel is wholesome,
good news. The growing impatience with the slip-
shod and second rate is coming....I came across an
advertisement with the top 10 cars ranked in terms of /
new car satisfaction. They circled Buick in red. Buick
was ﬁfth. You see, the other nine were seven Japanese
and two German cars. It was unspoken that American
cars were not expected to be as good as the foreigners.
In my  column I presented this issue, and received
a letter from Buick saying that I had been terribly
unfair — they were nearly fourth. I wrote back to say
that I had never heard of basketball fans cheering
,“We’re number four!” I don’t want to live in a
country like that.

I think that it is in the governments closest to home
that the good government decisions are made, that-it

‘ is the mediating institutions of life — schools,

churches, fraternal organizations ——_that make life
better. The idea of looking for salvation in a capitd
city dominated by a very peculiar class, on the fringe
of a very large continent, makes no sense. What
America depends upon, and what institutions like
Washington and Lee deal with, is the salvation of one
person at a time by the transition to high standards.

The greatest baseball story, which is even better
because it is true, is based on the greatest right-hand‘.
hitter in baseball, Roger Homsby. [There] was a
rookie pitcher on the mound who threw three pitches
which he thought were strikes and the umpire said,
”Ball 1.... Ball 2.... Ball 3.” The pitcher shouted to the
umpire, “Hey, those were strikes!” And the umpire
took off his mask and said, “No young man, when you
throw a strike, Mr. Homsby will let you know.”
secret of America is for all of us to become a Roger
Homsby for our community, a standard by which a
good performance is judged.

I want to thank you for allowing me to come to this
beautiful campus tovshare all of this with you. I may
have said some things you didn’t agree with. I cer-
tainly hope not. I'll just tell you to take it in the spirit
of American politics. American politicians are fon
of a story in which two clergyrnen meet on the street.
One of them is Methodist and one is Irish Catholic.
The Irishman says, “Can’t we be friends; after all we
worship the same God?” The Methodist man said, “I
know we worship the same God: you in your way and
I in His.” I think on this Inauguration Day, in the

words of a great Virginian, we’re all Republicans,‘ I

we’re all Democrats, we’re all in the same party,
wishing the new administration well, knowing, as
we’re mature people, not to expect too much.

The previous column was a transcript of portions
of George Will’sFounder’ s Day Convocation speech
and was reprinted with permission.

Chris Matthews will retun next week. 0

    

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

OPINION

Knocks and pings shake up Spos’ car

SPOS’ SPACE

-

g.4~,,,

By Tom Hespos

‘Over the past few years, I have
developed this twisted love/hate rela-
tionship with my car. When I made the
transition from boy to man by passing
my road test and getting a full-ﬂedged
driver’s license, my father presented
me with his ancient Volkswagen Beetle.
D!d was convinced that this car would
make me the most popular guy in my

-V high school. And why shouldn’t it?

1.

Everyone else was driving either a
Mustang or a Carnaro or something
else that could exceed the speed of
, sound (usually in first gear, I might

acﬂ). But Spos was going to be differ- '

ent. He would cruise around in a 1971
yellow bug with a convertible top and
would be completely incapable of fend-
ing off the gorgeous women, even if he
enlisted the aid of an Uzi.

. Dad was really proud of this car. He

, bmght it new and drove it only on

.A

V

special occasions, waiting for the day
when his son would earn his driver’s
license and drive it down to the beach,
as he so often liked to do. Dad made
sure that he kept it in good condition by
occasionally reminding my sister not
toﬁean her bicycle up against it or jump
‘ up and down on the convertible top as
if it were a trampoline.

By the time I got around to passing

« my road test and actually driving the

4

car, it had just a few minor dents, and
the roof was only partially caved in. As
a matter of fact, I remember one windy
day, while driving myself and my friend
Craig to school, the entire roof ripped
loose from the rest of the car and nearly

’ 1 caused the deaths of about 10 of my

schoolmates, who were piled into the
Camarobehind us. As I watched the
pieces of roof fly off and situate them-
selves about the highway, I said a re-

‘ ally bad word that starts with “s” and

ends with “hit.”

I believe I said that exact same word
last Friday night, when during a solo
road trip over the mountain to Sweet
Briar, my little punch buggy decided to
make a nasty noise and sputter to a
stop. Of course, with Murphy's Law
still governing the greater part of the
universe, this problem occurred on the
strip of Route 60 that is mostly inhab-
ited by deer and people named Jim Bob
who are unaware that the Civil War has
ended. After screaming the aforemen-
tioned S-word at the top of my lungs, I
decided to engage in a well-known
male ritual which Spos will describe as
“opening the engine compartment and
staring at the motor as if I could possi-
bly fix the problem out here in the
middle of nowhere without tools.”

At this moment, Spos simply prayed
for the problem to be something minor
that didn't require a wrench to fix. God
saw fit to grant His mercy and Spos
was able to make an adjustment that
would allow him to restart the car and
continue in his quest to get to Sweet
Briar before his cute girlfriend reported
him missing to the State Police. Dur-
ing the rest of the voyage over the
mountain, Spos had to stop about eight
times to make further adjustments to
the engine using the “percussive main-
tenance method” which involved kick-
ing the car and swearing loudly at no
one in particular. In the meantime, the
deer and other furry woodland crea-
tures were probably convening deep in
the heart of the woods, trying to figure

LETTERS

-. W&L should nurture city

out the meanings of the random swear
words that spewed forth from my
mouth.

At 10 minutes past seven o’ clock, I
greeted my girlfriend,Jennifer at the
door of Carson Dormitory with grease-
covered hands and a frustrated look on
my face.

“I might have to stop a few times on
the way back over the mountain to fix
my car,” I warned. “It’s been acting up
lately.”

Looking back, I commend Jennifer
for her patience and understanding of
the whole situation. I think that we
must have stopped 185,000 times on
the way back to W&L. Using ad-
vanced, college-honed math skills, Spos
estimates that approximately l,067,43 2
swear words escaped his lips that frigid
night. And that’s not all.

Coming down the side of the moun-
tain, where the angle of descent of the
road allows one to coast into Buena
Vista at approximately the speed of
light, the car began to make noises.
Not stop-the-car-because-the-motor-
needs-an-adjustrnent noises, but rather
start-praying-because-the-front-end-is-
about-to-explode type noises. Spos
quickly remedied this by turning up the
radio to a level that tends to promote
permanent hearing loss. Still, Jennifer
could hear the front end noises under
the 140-decibel screech of Eddie Van
Halen’s guitar. She then decided to
contribute to the already scary situa-
tion by assuming a crash position not
unlike those demonstrated to airline
passengers by stewardesses.

“I wouldn ’t worry about that noise,”
I said as Eddie soloed through “Why
Can ’tThis Be Love.” “It doesn’tsound
life-threatening.”

Jennifer gave me a frightened look
like the one a chipmunk gives you
before you ﬂatten it with your car.
Needless to say, this boosted Spos’
confidence tenfold.

As we sputtered into town on a wing
and aprayer, I wondered if anyone in or
near Lexington was capable of work-
ing on a Beetle. I could almost visual-
ize Jim Bob the mechanic expressing
confusion when he discovers that, as is
the case with most German cars, the
engine is located in the rear of the car.

This thought was cut short as we
pulled into my driveway and Jennifer
let out a squeal of delight, obviously
prompted by the notion that we had
made it back to Lexington alive and in
one piece.

Gathering Jennifer’sbelongings and
walking up the front walk to my house,
I glanced back at the car and saw that
one of the front wheels looked to be
preparing to separate itself from the
rest of the car. “Eureka,” I thought to
myself. “I do believe that I have dis-
covered the source of those front end
noises.” I said a silent prayer to God,
thanking Him for His use of divine
intervention in saving our butts.

Later, as I thumbed through the
latest issue of Road and Track maga-
zine, looking for a good buy on a new
car, I thought to myself that there was
no way I would everbe able to separate
myself from my yellow Beetle.

Admittedly, it is a piece of automo-
tive crap, but nothing could ever dupli-
cate the feeling I used to get when I
would cruise to the beach, Van Halen
wailing through the speakers and the
wind tossing my hair about. Occasion-
ally, a girl would even turn her head as
I went by.

Political vandals act

To the Editor:
As an outside observer (county resident) of
' thdcontinuing car-tax saga, it was interesting to
hear the war cries from The Ring-turn Phi [Nov.
' 19]. I'm sure that as a youth in their situation
(though without the BMW), I would have been
1' just as fired up at the seeming arbitrariness and
double taxation, etc. However (and perhaps it is
my “Boomer”-ness), I was struck with the
powntial for channeling that zeal in a direction
more relevant to the challenges their generation
. faces in making our society work for everyone.
Lexington and W&L go, well, you know,
,. way back. Each of them nurtures and enhances
. each other in all of the obvious ways_(services',

faculty kids schools, etc.) and inimany ways”

thg are probably as complex and symbiotic as
natural ecology. And Idare say, for many of the
residents, students, alumni and faculty there is
a deep bond of love for this community (one
which some Ring-tum Phi editors may some-

‘ day even come to enjoy.) Lexington is not a
huge, wasteful, money-hungry bureaucracy,
b actually just one of the rare beautiful little
towns trying to get by in a situation of limited
and diminishing resources and bleak economic
projections. It is the hope of many that it does

' survive and even prosper.

It is my understanding that colleges in other
communities (including the Harvard of the

0

North) have had to, either amicably or not,
come up with new revenue relationships which
meet their modern situations. Apparently, W&L
and the city have some agreement of that sort.
But is it actually adequate, considering their
holdings, etc.? Perhaps the budding politicians,
economists, lawyers and planners in the student
body could make a project of taking Lexington
under their wing, as if they were going to live
here, research the situation and make recom-
mendations.

Perhaps the relative strength of W&L’s en-
dowment relative to its size in the city and the
city’ s limitations would indicate a greater con-

 lti.buti0I.1;L€>r.perhap.s,th<:students would 60 9
 up with’ an ‘even more creative solution. n‘

either case, maybe they could eliminate their
car-tax in the process.

This situation may be somewhat complex
and suggesting help from the students may be
idealistic. However, solving the Lexington-
W&L revenue dilemma, in its relatively small
and contained world, would be minor (and
perhaps a good learning tool) for these students
compared to the problems they will inherit.
Seeing this problem from both sides would be
a good first step in realizing that, in the end, we
are all in “this” together.

Greg Sandage

To the Editor:

I realize that the Inaugural Ball has created some hysteria
among the nation’s liberal populace, but if the recent actions of
this faction’s branch at Washington & Lee is any indication of
future behavior, then the nation is in deep trouble. Iarn speaking
of the blatant disregard for the College Republicans and for their
desire to voice their own opinions. They have attempted to post
signs around campus in order to inform the college community
of club meetings and discussions, but these signs have been
repeatedly torn down and destroyed without provocation. I find
it amusing. that the left wing, the “tolerant” and the “open
minded”, do not have enough faith in their own political beliefs
to respect those of others. I find it disturbing that these people

. chastise the conseryatives-for,nai;rowrmindetibehavior when '~

I .th,ey‘rr1_trs; resgrtto, JuveniI¢,ta9iis$.lilss;.tat}.d§ili§:i}.in.9;d§,r.to
ensure that their message is heard. In my.op1m0n,- it rsrthrs type

of activity which destroys the very heart of an interactive‘

society. The increasingly liberal administration, with notable
exceptions, has refused to recognize the defamation of one of the
university’s most historic and powerful organizations. They
have ignored the words of the College Republicans who favor
idea exchanges and actual brain activity instead of the wallet
activity of the more liberal clubs. It is time for the liberals to
come down to earth. I realize that Bill Clinton's rise to the Oval
Office is exciting but I predict that this enthusiasm will disap-
pear in about 100 days and the nation will again look to the right
for guidance.

Sincerely,
Paul E. Wright, ’95
Press Secretary and Spokesman, College Republicans

Dean of Students reports increase in student arrests

Ttfthe Editor:
For the past two years, in an effort to
pincreaseeawareness of student disci-
plinary issues and promote more re-
sponsible behavior in our community,
I have published the student arrest
ords for alcohol—related incidents in

re
4 th ity of Lexington. Alcohol-related

arrests of Washington and Lee stu-
dents (DUI, possession under age,
drunkenness, noise and litter) declined
from a high of 100 in Fall Term 1988,
to 74 in Fall Term 1989, to 45 in Fall
Term 1990, to a low of 35 in Fall Term
1991.

For Fall Term 1992 just concluded,

45 Washington and Lee students were
arrested for alcohol-related incidents.
The overall increase was a direct result
of more noise complaints (14) and ar-
rests for public drunkeness (11) than
last fall. I hope that this increase to 45,
although still significantly lower than
the ﬁgures a few years ago, does not

indicate a trend in the wrong direction.

Remember, student conduct in Lex-
ington is a measure not only of indi-
vidual standards but-is also a reﬂection
of the standards of Washington and
Lee University.
David L.,Howison
Dean of Students

 

Recruitment

The Admisions Office needs
freshman males to help with re-
cmiting weekends. Please contact
Nancy Hickarn at 463-8710 for de-
tails.

Club LAX

There will be a Club Lacrosse
meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in
Newcomb Hall to discuss the up-
coming season.

Ariel

The absolute last deadline for
Ariel submissions is Feb. 1 by 5
p.m. Turn in photographs, artwork,
poetry and prose to Carol Calkins.
Questions? Call Brian Carpenter at
463-1001.

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for the positions of Ex-
ecutive Committee president, vice
president and secretary and Student
Conduct Committee chairman are
due Feb. 1. Petitions can be picked
up at Carol Calkins’ office.

Pre-Law

The W&L Pre-Law Society will
meet in room 221 of the Commerce
School tonight at 7 p.m. with mem-
bers of Phi Alpha Delta legal frater-
nity. Activities for the remainder of
the academic year will be discussed.
For further infomiation contact Prof.
John in room 12513 of the Com- ,
merce School.

Superdance

Registration packets for
Superdance are available in front of
Carol Calkins’ office. Sign up to be
a dancer and support MDA.

‘““=Ra uetbalr 
er-.5/:‘B ruxnlgl I;‘(.'\-‘) 5: ru_4\'.'r.:.;rL\|'-

‘ Anyone interested in laying In-,

3927‘ before Jan. ‘25 for dates and
information. The club needs people
of all skill levels.

AIDS Education

The AIDS Education Project will
host Dr. Merv Silverrnan ’60, presi-
dent of the American Foundation
for AIDS Research, tonight at 7:30
p.m. in Lee Chapel for a lecture
entitled, “AIDS: A Global Over-
view.” All are welcome.

Writing Center

The Writing Center is now open
Sunday through Thursday from 8
p.m. to 10 p.m. in Payne 2B. Stu-
dents who want help with writing
projects of any kind are encouraged
to sign up or to stop by for an indi-
vidual conference with a writing
tutor.

‘.1

j tra‘rnural'Rat;iretballsho' dc'a11464-"“ Wcounsellng

Calyx

You can still sign up for Calyx
senior pictures. Schedule sheets are
located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
fice. Sign up early to avoid a late
fee.

Amnesty

Amnesty International presents
two showings of “Missing” Friday
and Saturday at 8 p.m. at the Trou-
badour Theatre. Admission is free
and everyone is welcome.

Alumni Job

Members of the Class of '93 who
wish to be considered for W&L's
Alumni Staff Associate position in
1993-94 should apply by March 1.
Graduating seniors should submit a
letter of application and resume to
Director of Alumni Programs James
D. Farrar, Jr. in the Alumni office.
The position will become available
on July 1. A personal interview for
each applicant will be required.

Lost

Gold cuff-link with round face.
If found, please call Carlin at 464-
3758.

Grief Support

The Counseling Service will be-
gin a Grief Support group on Mon-
day at 3 p.m. Eight sessions will be
held and will cover such topics as
the manifestation of grief, remem-
bering, accepting and expressing
feelings, role changes, stress and
coping, anniversaries and memori-
alizing. If you are dealing with a
loss of a close friend or relative,
please join us. Call ext. 8590 for
more information.

-run-'1_.-‘ ‘-'.'i. r turr-

"rl}I‘§1\A’

A counseling/support group for
women with eating and/or compul-
sive exercise problems will meet on
Tuesday afternoons beginning Jan.
26. Call the Counseling Service at
ext. 8590 or the Health Center at
ext. 8401 to sign up and. receive
additional information.

Republicans

The College Republicans will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. The de-
bate topic will be “Foreign Trade”
and contemplation on Bill Clinton.

Help Wanted

The Phi is looking for a humor
columnist. Ifyou think you can make
the campus laugh, submit a sample
of your writing to room 208 in the
University, Center. For more infor-
mation call Fran at 463-8581.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

P
5.

4 Interviews and Photos
by Darran Winslow

,6-

‘ Sean Gatewood, ’93, Bel Air, Md.
« — “Moonboots and parachute pants.”

 

Alison Cowand, ’94, Norfolk, Va. Dan Morgenstern, ’95, Atlanta,
— “Wonder Woman Underoos.”

Ga. — “Leisure suits."

TALKBACK

 

   

Susan Wootton, ’93, Marietta, Ga.
— “Feathered hair.”

pus, what would it be?

Frost Bush, ’95, Savannah, Ga. —— John Kleckly, ’94, Columbia, S.C.
“Tennis socks with balls on the back.”

— “Members Only jackets."

If you could bring back anyfashion trendto the
Washington and Lee cam

  

 

 

Alumnus
to speak
on AIDS

By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

The head of the largest AIDS re-
search foundation in the world will
speak on the global impact of AIDS
tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Dr. Mervyn Silverman, a 1960 W&L
graduate, is president of the American
Foundation for AIDS Research.

Junior Patrick McDermott, founder
of the Washington and Lee AIDS Edu-
cation Project, said Silverman is known
worldwide for his work.

“He’s traveled all around the world,”
McDermott said. “It’s incredible. He
went to Spain with Elizabeth Taylor
and was given a Spanish peace prize by
the prince of Spain.”

McDermott said Silverman has done
AIDS-related research in Argentina,
India, Switzerland, China, France, the
Netherlands, South Africa, Senegal,
Egypt and Indonesia.

“And that’s just recently, so he has
a pretty good idea of the global prob-
lem,” McDermott said

After graduating from W&L,
Silverman went to Tulane Medical
School and then the Harvard School of
Public Health. From 1977 to 1985,
Silverman was director of the San Fran-
cisco Department of Health and helped
create a program to fight the AIDS
epidemic in that city.

He last visited W&L in 1988 when
he attended an AIDS conference here.

Silverman has served as the medi-
cal director for Planned Parenthood of
Kansas and as director of the Food and
Drug Administration Office of Con-
sumer Affairs. In 1986, Silverman
joined the American Foundation for
AIDS Research. Actress Elizabeth Tay-
lor is the foundation’s founding na-
tional chairman.

There will be a public reception in
Morris House following Silverrnan’s
speech.

His lecture is sponsored by the W&L
AIDS Education Project, the Univer-
sity Lectures Committee, the biology
department and the public policy pro-
gram.

The speech is open to the public.

 

NEWS

Photo by Malloryeyers, T'he ing—t Phi 3

New fraternity houses for Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi Epsilon in Davidson Park are due to be finished

in late summer, officials said.

Construction moves along

By KRISTA TAuR1Ns
Phi Contributing Writer

Schematic plans for the new science building should be
completed by late March, says Capital Planning Director
Frank Parsons.

“The architects are making period visits to the campus,
meeting with the heads of the science departments," said
Parsons. “Things are proceeding at normal progress.”

Payette Associates, Inc., an architectural firm from Bos-
ton that specializes in science and health care facilities, is
designing the new building. Their idea is to construct a
building between Parmly and Howe halls, creating one large
science complex.

When the building between Howe and Parmly is com-
plete, Parsons said, it will house the chemistry and geology
departments, as well as a science library.

“That will free up Howe Hall for renovation," Parsons
said. “When it is renovated, then biology and physics
ldepartmentslwillmove over from Parmly Hall.'I'hen Parmly
Hall will be renovated, with special accommodations made
for psychology and computer science.”

Tucker Hall, without the psychology department, will

. have more space for language facilities, and Robinson Hall,

once computer science moves out, will have more space for
mathematics.

While Parsons says that the science center is the highest
priority project going on, plans for a new student center have
not been completely forgotten.

“The student center project for the time being is in
suspension. We will be making some space changes as soon
as the Sigma Chi fraternity house is available,” Parsons said.

Those changes will most likely entail a shift of adminis-
trative offices from the University Center to the old Sigma
Chi house, Parsons said. He said the move would allow
more room for student activities and enable the school to
wait on construction of a new student center.

The new Sigma Chi house, as well as a house for Sigma
Phi Epsilon, are currently under construction in Davidson
Park. Parsons said both buildings are on schedule.

“We are anticipating that Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi
Epsilon will move into their houses in late summer,” Par-
sons said.

The on—campus construction of the Watson Gallery,
however, is not on schedule. Construction fell behind by
three weeks.

Thomas Litzenburg, director of the Reeves Center, said
the delay is due to the complex design of the building.

“It fell behind because of the intricacy of the forms that
they had to build for the foundation walls,” Litzenburg said.
“That’s the principal reason.”

Rather than being completed in February as originally
scheduled, Litzenburg expects the gallery to be completed
by mid-April.

Litzenburg said, however, that the gallery will not open
until late summer, allowing him to examine the artwork
before it is displayed.

“We need a couple of months to inventory to install the
Watson collection," he said.

F

M Lee
Fiatgliugh Lee
M.MiIey

ii'1"i”riim1nl5
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

WL Art   I

Q ,

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “RE. Lee”

Signatures:

Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate re-strike. hand-colored
W&L and R.E.Lee limited edition art
Sculptures by Ron Tunison
George and Mary Washington pieces

R.E. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus
representatives. Ski
packages also available.

CALL 1-800-648-4849.

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

ALASKA SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT

FISHERIES - Students Needed! Earn
$600+ per week in canneries or
$4,000+ per month on fishing boats.
Free Transportation! Room and Board!
Over 8,000 openings. No experience
necessary. MALE or FEMALE. For
employment program call:
1-206-545-4155 Ext. A5342
Student Employment Services

Achievement Through Adventure

JJ Su|dmuw|:hlng1.oIvoItlnALuhmtutbe
elghlem or older and in good physiul condition.

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

Got a Gripe?
Write to the Phi.

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

Christopher Parkening

(0)
(0)
(0)

  

At,»

    

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

anuary 26 & 27 at 8:00 P
LENFEST CENTER
Tickets & Reservations 463-8000 0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday

‘ <1»
<1»
<1»
<1»

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993'

EC ponders '

advocate role,’

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee Monday
began the process of reviewing the
Honor System, discussing a list of pos-
sible changes with law school advo-
cates.

In an hour—long meeting, the EC
and four advocates, law school stu-
dents who advise accused students in
honor trials, said many of the issues on
a list sent to the EC by W&L Rector A.

A ‘ Stevens Miles were valid and worth

discussing.
The advocates said they were con-

. cemed about the lack of information

exchanged between the EC and advo-
cates before a closed honor hearing
begins.

Under current White Book proce-
dures, the accused and his advocate are
told the identity of the EC’s witnesses,
but are not allowed to contact any wit-
nesses before the hearing.

Advocate Mark Cathey said an ex-
change of information before the trial
could save the EC the trouble of a trial.

“I’ve done eight trials,” Cathey said.
“I think there were a couple of in-
stances where if you had heard [my
information] you wouldn't have
brought the case to trial.”

Senior EC Rep. Susan Moseley said
she was concerned that an exchange of
information before the accused was
officially charged would become an
attempt to get the case dropped before
it came to trial, instead of an attempt to
find the truth.

Moseley said an accused person

might be able to prepare and rehearse
their responses if they knew the evi-
dence against them. t_

“A lot of [finding out the truth] is 1’
watching how people react,” Moseley
said. .
Third-year law Rep. Jay Sterne said V
he hoped the EC would consider the
issues brought up by the advocates and V
other students, but said the EC should
not create procedural advantages for
either side.

“We have to remember this is no an
adversarial process until it come to
open trial,” Sterne said.

The advocates said EC members
who work on an investigation should
not be allowed to vote in the trial. "

“If you can be a body without bias,
why not strive for it,” advocate Chris
Schinstock said. 9 ‘

EC Presidentlosh MacFarland said ,
he does not want the investigators to '
appear like prosecutors. He said the 4
purpose of a closed hearing is to find
out the truth, not to convict a person of
an honor violation. 

In other action, the EC voted un£ti-
mously to use the term advocate con- -
sistently throughout the White Book.
Before the change, the terms advisor
and advocate were used interchange-
ably.

Schinstock said he would like to see
many people comment on the Hoﬁor
System, including people outside of
the Washington and Lee community, .v

r

‘F

“If we truly believe in our Honor ,

System we should open it up to the
public and let the scrutinize it,”
Schinstock said. “Maybe they will learn
from it.” Q

 

tudent

ctivities

presents

Movie Night

ﬁrm the

Tkoooaooor

sFeatur1'ng

SNEAKERS

Thursday, January 28th 8:00 p.m.

Saturday, January 30th 3:00 p.m. & 6:00 p.m.

“ “ “ “ “ “ " “ “ " “ “ " “ “ 3 3 3
$€$$$‘~?$$$$$'é:éT:?*

(0)
(0)

» SPRING BREAK ’93- . ééééggéeaégeegéaaéaaaa222:2 if *
CASH & GO FREE The (15)

<1»
(1 3)
<1»
<1»
<1v
<1»
<1»
(0)
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
(0)
<1»
<1» ,
<1»
<1»
<1»

oard

(0)

<1» j
(0) '

<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»
<1»

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

 

  

(0) ‘

   

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

8 WILSON, from page 1

“In General Lee’ .r College, Ollinger
Crenshaw wrote the history of Wash-
ington and Lee into the 1930s,” W&L
Capital Planning Coordinator Frank

sons said. “I think when the next
historian decides to pick it up, they will

A dumpsterfence isnot one of them.

“Coeducation and Fraternity Re-
naissance are the two things that will
be distinctive about his administration
and will persevere," Parsons said.

Coeducation

Between the time he was chosen to
be W&L’s next president in August

come to the Con- 1982 and the time he took
clusion that office in January 1983,
John Wilson Wilsonmade weeklytrips
was an out- from Blacksburg, where
Standing preSi- he wasprovostatvirginia
tginl.” Polytechnic Institute, to
I P a r s o n s Lexington to get to know
knows W&L the W&L faculty in one-
presidents. He on-one interviews.
graduated in , “I usually ended with

1954 under
F r a n c i s
P e n d l e to n
Gaines and re-
turned to work

the question, ‘What one
thing could we do to make
it a stronger and better
place?’ Coeducation was
overwhelmingly men-

for Gaines three tioned by the faculty as a
months later. jlecision whose time had
He was as- come,”Wilson said. “SoI
sistant to the was very, very curious
esident for about that.”
ed Cole, Wil- Once he became presi-
liam Pusey and dent, Wilson said, he held
R o b e r t dinners for 20-25 seniors
Huntley. Wil- at a time. When he asked
son appointed the question of admitting
Parsons to his women, none of the men
current job of had much to say.

Qpital planning coordinator.

And the man who has worked for a
quarter of the presidents in W&L his-
tory has nothing but praise for Wilson.

“It is a challenging job and a diffi-
cult job, being as how you have so
much to be responsible for and have to
I: so many different things to so many
different people,” Parsons said. “But
he is outstanding at it."

But Wilson is not without his de-
tractors.

“Many assume that I must either
hate Dr, Wilson or, at the very least,
jarbor yenomous distaste for the man.
This is not true,” said former W&L
Spectator editor Cameron Humphries,
whose articles were often critical of
Wilson.

“It must be acknowledged that un-
der Wilson’s presidency Washington
md Lee again enjoys a stature and
reputation unknown for nearly a de-
cade,” Humphries said. “My criticism

_ of the president does not concern what

he has done, but how he has done..it.”

. In the list of changes W&L has

undergone in the past decade, two stick

ut as the ones Wilson is destined to be
remembered for.

“But there was a curious thing hap-
pening. They would say very little [at
dinner] and then see me the next day
and say, ‘Here’s what I really meant to
tell you last night,’ ” Wilson recalled.
“It was like an act of disloyalty to be
critical of the Washington and Lee that
they had enjoyed for four years.”

Once he became convinced that
coeducation was the right thing for
W&L, Wilson asked the Board of Trust-
ees to consider the option.

In July 1984, the board decided to
admit women to W&L, a decision,
former Spectator editor Humphries
says,in which Wilson ignored the poular
will of the alumni.

“Alumni as a whole were ignored
during the coeducation decision,”
Humphries said. “I do not believe the
survey taken of alumni in 1984 —
which found them opposed to coedu-
cation by more than 2-to-1 — was ever
published.”

Wilson remembers the survey.

“That was an interesting question-
naire because many of [the alumni]
thoughtitwasaba1lot.,”Wilson laughs.
“But one of the things we learned was
that 80 percent of the alumni said that

NEWS

Wilson reflects on 10 years in office

if was going to cost the university aca-
demic quality to remain all-male, they
would rather it change.”

Wilson said coeducation is such a
part of life at W&L now he does not
think of it often.

‘‘If you stop to think what human
activity is least aided by the separation
of human beings  it is education,”
Wilson said. “There is no earthly rea-
son for separating men and women
when it comes to the study of literature,
mathematics, philosophy or any other
intellectual activity.”

Rector of the Board of Trustees
Steven Miles recalls Wilson coming in
“as coeducation was being enacted”
and doing a “masterful job of orches-
trating the transition to it.” Miles indi-
cated that co-

week,” Wilson said. “That showed me
a Washington and Lee that was totally
unattractive.”

Parsons said the deplorable state of
the fraternity system ate away at Wil-
son. ,

“He said we could not turn away
from the responsibility he felt we had
to improve the fraternities,” Parsons
said. “And he anguished over how to
do it.”

In 1988, Parsons said, Wilson came
up with the solution.

“He came up with aplan that would
commit the university's resources to
rescuing the fraternity system,” Par-
sons said.

It was a plan, Miles said, that Wil-
son had a hard time selling to the trust-

ees.

education was ‘‘It was controversial,but
something that he felt a statement needed
happened under to be made about the exist-
Wilson, but not ence of fraternities at Wash-
because of him. ington and Lee,” Miles said.
But if coedu- So the university e_m—
cation was an barked on the $12 million
ideawhosetime Renaissance program, un-
had ‘come, Fra- der which the university as-
temity Renais- sumed the titles to the fra-
sance was an temity houses and reno-
idea John Wil- vatedthern atuniversity ex-
son brought pense, with some houses
with him. costing more than $1 mil-
_ lion. The university than
Fratern|tY leased the houses back to
Renais- the fraternities.
n “What happened with
sa Ce FratemityRenaissance was
«When I that it went beyond the sur-
came, Sigma face and gave [fratemity
Nu was boarded  a new attitude,
up' It had been So in the spring of 1991,
ﬁred purposely. h thr f .
Arson in other w eri ee ratemity mem-
words,” Wil- bers threw bottles through
 i.*:,‘=..“;:',:*:,:’i.“:.‘?:*:.f.::*:r'“.::i
l , 'd. . . . ’
gxggui Silas neither the fraternities of the
 ‘.§Li‘lé‘8f..ii‘.?..§L‘;‘i?2IiCi‘v’§li
§2fu3;ead::2da_ son suspended the students.
mm of the fra_ The action brought Wil-
temity systemy son criticism from all sides,
culminating in a forum in
The houses . . .
noton1yhadSe_ Lee Chapel in which Wil-

rious plumbing and electrical prob-
lems and health violations, Wilson said,
but fraternities seemed to bring out the
worst in the W&L “gentleman,” a sen-
timent he shared with the faculty.
“There was a restlessness on the
part of the faculty that an institution
that prided itself on high standards
could turn itself into a different kind of
institution on various nights of the

SPECIAL SKI PROGRAM ANNOUNCED

son tried to explain his deci-
sion, but would not reverse it.

Wilson said that looking back, “I
did what I thought was right. And it
was probably a mistake.”

Wilson says part of the blame lies
with the SCC, which he says was dys-
functional because the Executive Com-
mittee president was considering re-
moving the SCC chairman, who had

just had a
second con-
viction for
driving un-
der the in-
ﬂuence.

B u 1
Miles be-
lieves Wil-
son may
have re-
acted the
way he did
because the
pre s i dent
took the in-
cident per-
sonally.

“He had
stuck his
neck out on Fratemity Renaissance and
got the board to spend $12 million, and
then this happens,” Miles said. “He had
put so much in the program, and it hurt
him.”

In that respect, Miles, who disagreed
with Wilson’s action, says he can for-
give it.

“It should have never gotten to his
office, but it did and I fully understand
why he did it,” Miles said. “If that’ s the
worst thing he’s done, I’ll take it."

Fading into the Sunset

Among the list of things Wilson
sees in W&L’s future — building a
new science center, improving the ath-
letic facilities, creating a better student
center — there is one which he says he
must complete before he can retire:
increasing W&L’ s endowment through
the current capital campaign.

“The capital campaign is very im-
portant to increase our faculty support
and student financial aid,” Wilson said.
“If I can accomplish that, I’ll be very
happy to fade into the sunset.”

“I think when John leaves, which I
hope won’t be soon, but I realistically
think will be in the next four or five
years, he can look back on
a successful career,” Miles
said.

ButHumphries believes
Wilson’s lack of contact
with the students has tar-
nished’ his accomplish-
merits.

“The net effect of
Wilson’s administration
has been to alienate the
presidency from the stu-
dent body," Humphries
said. “In his moments of
more honest introspection,
he knows this to be true.”

 

 

Wilson acknowledges this aspectof
his presidency.

“I realize I'm not a terribly popiilar
president.” He sighs. “And I regret
that.”

Wilson said his hectic travel sched-

ule contributes to the perception that he '

is out of touch with the student body,
but he also contends that he is a shy
person.

“I spend too many hours up here
and not enough out there,” Wilson said
in his Washington Hall office. “But I
am not very good at going to the Co-op
and sitting down with a bunch of stu-
dents at a table uninvited.

“The thing is, I really participate in
the lives of students by watching them
perform in the public arena, like the
sports field, like the gymnasium, or the
theater, or the concert hall.

“I should probably teach. This is the
first place I've never taught,” Wilson
said. “But it’s very difficult to teach
well when your travel schedule is such
that you’ve got to be out of town a fair
arnount....If you're looking for sugges-
tions for my successor, that would be
one.”

When the next president of Wash-
ington and Lee Uni-
versity does take
office,JohnDelane
Wilson will most
likely go down in
history as the man
who revitalized the
university through
coeducation and re-
newed the fratemi-
ties through Re-
naissance.

And what does
he think of that?

“I’ll take the
dumpsters.”

Altiitt - Eriiiiiia

    

 

 

FOR Needed
W & L STUDENTS & FACULTY .
f 102 W. Washington St.
We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special W&L Ski  osalesmgn  S  ' '
Program which is being made available by the Winterplace Ski Resort. Production Assistants Suits & Spomoats . . . _ . _ . _ ‘ . . °26_50% Off
‘ W&L Students and Faculty wishing to takeadvantage of this special ski Humor Columnist ter Outerwear Coats . . . . . . . . 25_% Off
program must present their W&L identification card when purchasing lift Re orters D T C 207 Off
+ tickets, renting ski equipment, or renting a condo. p less op Oats ‘ ' ' ’ ° ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ° ' ' 0
Sweaters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30% Off
$1ﬂ  Call 463-8581 Casual Shirts (Rugby& Chamois) . . . 30-50% Off
_ for details Gloves, Scarves, & T-Necks . . . . . . . . 50% Off
Weekdays (Monday through Friday) other Items Reduced
r Lift Tickets Rental Equipment Mastercard Student Charge 463-5383
(skis, boots, and poles)
9 am to 5 P-m- $14-95 37-95 \ﬁx’\’\’\’\’5.’\’\‘'\’\’\’\’\‘’\’\‘’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\‘’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\‘'\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\$§
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $17.95 $7.95 \, ,v
~, \
3 Pm‘ ‘° 1° pm‘ $12'95 $595  Try our new winter Sunset Special - 
d S d H rd 5 Buy one sunset entree, get one free! .’r§
Sam’ av‘ ““ ay‘ °‘ ‘W5 Ls? 7'' €———— Our $10.00 Sunset Special includes salad, choice of Q
Lift Tickets Rental E ui mm  W I L L S O N _ three entrees, fresh vegetable, choice of rice or g
(skis, boots, and poles)   A L K E R Potato, Wheat T0113, hgl:I;%)IIt1a('l]C31’E’)l1lfflI1S, and bCV€1'8.g6. 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $27.95 $12.95 x’ _ - 0 - ,\
+ 9 3 m ,0 10 p m $34 95 $12 95 Q? ‘ Reservations Recommended Casual Dress x§
. . . . . . I /\
5 p.m. to 10 p.m. $18.95 $ 7.95 Q; H 0 U S E :4 . $\
W&Ls ’lSk'L ‘t; ”"’‘'“'“''‘l, 1 , It only Look; E answe... gt
 §(E tj R|r|;lsSFt{.é 'Wi[£son-‘Walker 9-{ouse oﬂers exceptional quafity a service in a restored, cfzissicaife, 
\ revised towrtliouse, compfemented ﬁy exceflentfood in a refaxed 6ut elegant atmosp re \
‘ . 1 1/2 hour group lesson by  463'3020 at a price tﬁat you can afford. 
. . . /
::::ri:°g:::T;°;S1';”5‘§'Sh School f°r my $695 Per :3’?x’x’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\ \’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’st’\’\’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’\’\’x’\’\’\’\’s’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’\’§
, Winterplace Condominiums . I
~ . 2 Bedrooms - Parlor, 2 baths, kitchen - sleeps 6 - V
‘ available Sunday night through Thursday night - only $125.00
‘ per night.

i  Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
..,ff;:;:i:::::.‘:;.:::::2::;‘:;:;°;:::.“::,*i*:.::“.:::“::‘::..ii-  All-U-Can Eat $499

' new_1ifts (now 4 chair lifts + 2 surface lifts) and a new dining and food Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99

Sam’ ' Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable

1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95
Saturday Night Prime Rib
Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95

Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

4 miles North on Route 11
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell

, Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley, West
,\ Virginia, 1 1/2 miles from the Ghent exit on Interstate 77.

LEE—HI

Truck Stop

If you need additional info, or need to confirm lodging reservations,
- call 304/ 787-3221. For latest snow conditions, call snow phone 1-800-
, 258-3 127.

Anticipated conditions on Saturday, January 23rd are - I 7 traiLs open
A , with all chairlifts operating.

 

 

FEATURES

The Ring-tum Phl, January 21, 1993

Author specializes in weddings from hell

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

At a wedding in an old historic Episcopal church, the
organist hit the keys to play the recessional, and the entire
rank of pipes fell off, hitting the groom on the head and
knocking him imconscious. '

This is a favorite anecdote of Margaret Bigger, the author
of There’ s No Such Thing as a Perfect Wedding. Bigger has
collected over 200 true anecdotes in the book, and she is
working on a sequel that will contain almost three times as
many stories.

Bi gger said she heard many of the stories from ministers
when she worked as a committee chairman of a presbytery.

“I would go to lunch breaks at regional meetings and hear
these guys telling hysterical stories,” she said.

Bigger initially wrote the stories for publication in the
Presbyterian Survey,adenominationalmagazirie,afterprom-
ising anonymity to the brides and ministers involved.

She collected stories for several years. “No matter where
I went, I found that if I told a good story I’d get three or four
back,” she said.

Bigger saw the potential for a book, and began breaking
the stories up into categories.

Since the publication of her first humor book, she has
appeared on the Sally Jessy Raphael show, the Vicki
Lawrence show, and the Geraldo Rivera show.

“Apparently I have found a topic that people love to talk
about and laugh about,” she said. She hopes to appear on the
Oprah Winfrey show to talk about horrendous wedding
pranks. She said that so far, West Virginia and Georgia hold
the record for the dirtiest pranks.

Several W&L students are nervous about their upcoming
weddings.

Senior Lee Rorrer has been engaged for about three
months. Her ﬁance graduated from W&L four years ago.

“I foimd out yesterday that my aunt, who is a bridesmaid,
is pregnant,” she said. “She’ll be six months pregnant for the
wedding, and I hope she doesn’t look like a big grape.”

Evans Edwards, also a W&L senior, has been engaged to
his fiancee since last year’s Fancy Dress. They went to high
school together and she went to James Madison University.
Edwards said his greatest wedding fear would be “if my
fiancee didn't show up, or somebody was unruly at the
wedding and turned it into a disaster.”

There’ s No Such Thing as a Perfect Wedding contains no
direct advice, but Bigger said that people read it and learn
whatnot to do. She recommends it to friends of the bride
who want to lighten the mood, and also to brides to give to
their mothers, who she says often take the wedding too
seriously and expect everything to be perfect. She said that
one young man wanted to give his girlfriend the book along
with an engagement ring, to keep the mood light.

Biggerwillbeat W&L onJan. 25-26 to promote her book
and will deliver a speech, “How to Promote Non-Fiction as
a Freelancer,” Jan. 26 at 1 pm.

“What I’ve learned works,” she said. “If you don't
promote [your work], it isn't going to sell. People have to
know it exists and have a reason to buy it.“

Bigger will also be at the University Bookstore Jan. 26
from noon to 2 pm. to sign copies of her book, and to gather
more stories.

“If people at W&L want to tell me about weddings
they've attended where a disaster occurred, or an off-the-
wall-prank was played, or someone said something funny,
I want to hear about those for my sequel or maybe even for
the nextTV show Ido,"Bigger said. “Every timeIthinkI’ve
heard it all, I hear another one.”

 

Illustration by Tim Rickard. There's No Such ﬂing As a Perfect Wedding

Chinese New Year celebrates the Year of the Cook?

By MAi'r Du.uim
Phi Contributing Writer

About one ﬁfth of the world'spopulation willbereveling
in a tremendous New Year celebration starting Saturday, as
this week marks the beginning of the Chinese Year of the
Cock.

“It’s the day for families to come together. It is much like
your Christmas, but without religious meaning,” said Hsiu-
Ying Wu, a Chinese teaching assistant spending her second
year at Washington and Lee University. “It is the biggest

~ festival of the year.”

The Chinese New Year is celebrated during a different
Western week each year, because China’s limar calendar
has a different number of days than the Western calendar.

“Our calendar is based on the moon, but yours is based
on the stm,” Hsiu-Ying Wu said

The festival usually falls in January or February.

One of the most significant
aspects of the New Year Festi-
val is that each year is repre-
sented by a different animal.

The animals represent a

fable of the Chinese old world,
when Buddha called together
all animals to guard and pro-
tect the new year.

Only 12 answered his call,
and each one characterizes ev-
ery 12th year.

 

  

Thecock represents con- Food is an integral part
fidence arid determinism. of the New Year festival.

Because China has pro- ‘,__', Seeds and rice products
gressed intoanemployment- I symbolize the rebirthandthe
based society since the in- N; 1,9  ( new life that the upcoming
ception of New Year festi- COCK—Feb. 17 OX—Feb. 3 197310 9  lg spring will afford. »
vals, some customs have 1969 to Feb, 5 Jan_ 221974-sread- ’}._3_'!g3», . “We have many foods,”
b¢€111110d1ﬁ°d- 1970—Determined, fast, methodical Hsiu-Ying Wu said. “ 'ce

“I11 1116 0111 111110 P001119 pride, alert, confident, abrasive, unimaginative, dependable, loyal, 081168 are 11105! im 1-
51311911 10 P199319 10011 101 aggressive, rude," affectionate, possessive, logical, honest. we 315° “V5 01311838. 31111
1116 New Y681 0116 111011111 111 resolute, punctillious. uriromantic. 1-he)’ 1113311 80°11 111919"
advance,” Hsiu-Ying Wu Hsiu-Ying Wu said par- -

said. “Wecarinot dothatnow

 

N BOAR —Jan. 27 1971 toFeb. 14 1972

 
 

        

       

because the lifestyle is dif- — Unpretentious, jolly, caring, indus- money-filled envelope after
ferent. We cannot close trious,tnisting, naive,hard-—working, E5 ‘\‘l the dimer.
schools and shopsforawhole hospitable.  *~..;4. Once the children mafry,
month.” TIGER * ,*  theystartgivingmoneyback
5li11.111€1'€1S3101°fP1'°P3' Jam 23 ‘§,/,(<9\'$ﬁ," totheparentsonNew Year’s
ration. Men get haircuts; - 1974‘°F°b- m, Eve.
women go to beauty shops_ 26 1971. - RAT — Feb. l5 1972 to Feb. 2 10 1975. — ' . . Children slay up until
wl-he pﬁces are two to Loyal, honest, like- 19_73—Charrnmg, adaptable, cre- Leadership,brave,rash,im- mldnlglll, symbolically
three times more than um, able, trusted, conservative, ativ_e, ambitious, opporturust, gre- V petuous, warm,.smcere, ag- wishing lllell. pawns 3 lohg
mal, but people sllll do it,» sympathetic, tolerant, active ganous, erratic, gossip. gressive, authoritarian. llfe_ ' 0
she said. 1°1‘ab1°- The New Year festivities
Although the Chinese culminate on the ﬁrst full
New Year has become more moon of the lunar calendar.

materialistic as the years go on, the traditions that make the
commemoration significant will never change.

“We’re waiting for spring, a new hope,” Hsiu-Ying Wu
said.

The festival is a time of togetherness, great hope and

  ‘Z718 Sisters of CH1’ Omega

 C ongratufate and '1/I/efcome

Qﬁeir 1993 T[ec{qe Cfass

Sarah Rose Brombacher
Kristen Elmas Cavros
Helen Smith Chandler
Kristina Lou Charney

Marie Fox

Jessica Lee Graft
Jennifer Ellery Greene
Jennifer Dawn Greeley
Caroline Haynes Guerin

Laura Elaine Howell
Kara Michele Kimzey
Mary Lynn Huger King ‘
Robin L. King a
Rebecca Towning Kramer

Kelly

.' 
E. A
=._:::

 .'... .x. . ..-.. v....,'..‘¢’r.. .»...;

3,
7.:
z -I
‘ E
3.:

,4
-»i
3
I
*3
-I

Justine Joy LaMont
Kristen Lynne Lawrence
Kambra Bovard McConnel
Meagan Christine Miller
Jennifer Robison
Suzanne McKay Sharp
Jill Michelle Sheets
Mary Reed Stapleton
1 Shelley Ann Sunderman
Vanessa Dianne Vettier
Madeline Tapley White
Shannon Meta Wiegmann
Katherine Tucker Wood

. ---.. v...-p..«v— ——... -

--~»ac'-‘-‘——-rs--a.«.;..'..s-.».:.’..2....’.';.'.e.4“ .:_"ua'as_..-.._ - .

great dinners for families.

“If someone cannot come [to the New Year’s Eve din-
ner], we set his place and place a cloth over his chair to
represent him,” she said.“A fish is at the table, and it
represents luck, so we must not eat it that night.”

On that night, the streets in the cities of China become 1
dense with people relishing the activities.

While a long, colorful dragon made of bamboo frame
dances through the streets in the armual dragon darte,
firecrackers light up the sky in celebration of the new year.

1993 Tlergge C[a.s5

Sally Ball

Brigitte Barland
Ashley Bell
Stephanie Boden
Aloise Bozell
Meredith Brown
Stephanie Corbin
Chrissy Donnelly
Shannon Foster
Kim Freeman
Jennifer Galardi

Cinnie Lo

0

Chrissie Hart
Samantha Hollomon
Kippie Killebrew
Karen Kwitervich

Lisa Murp y
Julie Ann Olejniczak Meredith Winn
Hilary Rhodes .

Mims Rowe

Jenny Floyster
Julie Sauers

Lisa Smith
Stephanie Tomasso
Courtne Tucker
Peyton urner

an

ents give their children a i

.

1 Gone are the days of freshman bean-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

Faculty alums recall

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

ies and six-day work weeks.

. qFraternities have noticeably
changed since the years faculty alumni
spent as students.

“The fraternities of today are more
conscious of the number of legal and
behavioral dangers,” University Sec-
retary Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, said.

.However, Professor of Politics

I Lewis John recalls the more restrictive ,

social scene.
“No women were allowed above

, the first floor of fraternity houses,”

John, ’58, said.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
“lﬁiddy” Atkins, ’68, also remembers
the constraining social atmosphere.

“There were six days of classes so
parties were only on Saturday nights,”

-r

.- Atkins, a member of Sigma Alpha Ep-

silon, said.

Parties were not open as they are

. today-

“Women students didn’t show up
1 without a date,” Atkins said.

is He said parties would begin at 8

 p.m. and end about midnight.

f “Women had to be back on their

respective campus or approved hous-

. in ,” Atkins said.

"John, a member of the now-defunct

:- Delta Upsilon Washington and Lee

chapter, agrees.
‘ “There were always couples at par-

ties rather than a great inﬂux of people,”

John said. ‘‘I went on a lot of blind

» d s.” »
ohn said men’s Rush was shorter
8 when he was a W&L student.
“Rush was finished by the first week

I of classes,” he said.
I Before the construction of Evans

‘ Dining Hall, freshmen depended on

thsir fraternity for meals, John said.
But, in the years when Professor of
' Romance Languages Laurent Boetsch,
» ’69, was a W&L student, the university
as a whole changed dramatically.
“The war, the draft, the Civil Rights
Movement,” Boetsch said, “made it

:1.-‘ almost impossible to not get involved

wﬂh something outside of Lexington.”

     
       
       
   
     
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
     

 

 

frat life

 

selor.

 

LEWIS GEORGE JOHN, ’58 — Delta Upsilon
Secretary and Treasurer, Phi Beta Kappa,
Interfratemity Council President, Phi Eta Sigma
Secretary and President, Student Library Commit-
tee Chairman, Cold Check Committee, Student
Service Society, Band, Glee Club, Scabbard and
Blade, Dorm Counselor and Freshman Camp Coun-

 

A look back at some faculty alumni

FARRIS PIERSON HOTCHKISS, ’58 — Calyx
Editor, The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Advisor, Fancy
Dress Vice President, Finals President, Student
Service Society President, Publications Board, Phi
Eta Sigma, Dorm Counselor, Washington Literary
Society and President’s Advisory Council.

 

LEROY COLE ATKINS II, ’68 - Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Secretary, Mongolian Minks, Student
Service Society, Varsity Club Treasurer, Dorm
Counselor, Football, Lacrosse and SWMSFC.

Boetsch, formerly of Sigma Phi
Epsilon, de-activated after returning
from his junior year abroad.

“Fraternity life didn’t interest me
anymore,” he said. “It [fraternity life]
paled by comparison to real life.”

Boetsch believes that those years of
change were excellent for W&L.

“My senior year, W&L was at its
best as a liberal arts institution,” he
said. “I think because we were more

 The zeta-at. Chapter or  
Kappa Kappa Gamma

Wishes to Congratulate the
Following 1993 Pledges:

Betsy Blunt
Melissa Byrd
Meg Carrere

Amy Carrington

Dominique Chappelear
Caroline Connolly
Catherine Constantino

Dana Cornell
Margaret Cox
Kimberly Davis
Kylie Edwards
Susan Foote
Laura Forster
Kristin Frels
Liza Gallardo
Tara Hadfield
Margaret Hawn
Catherine Hess
Meg Kinder
Ashley Matthews
Sara McGinty
Alison Oneacre
Rebekah Prince

Josephine Schaeffer
Elizabeth Schoellkopf

Ashley Short
Stacy Williams

skeptical.”

John said the percentage of students
in the late 1960s and early 1970s that
were in fraternities dropped from 85-
90 percent to 50 percent.

“There was a general lack of respect
and a do-your-own—thing mentality,”
John said. “However, fraternities are
becoming more like they used to be.”

Hotchkiss, a member of Beta Theta
Pi, agrees.

 
 

 

 

Hellzapoppin' for war relief

50 years ago in the Phi — An all—soldier revue of
dramatic and variety skits in the “Hellzapoppin”
style was presented by student officers of the Army
School for Special Service, with proceeds going to
the United Nations War Relief fund.

“Beginning in 1966, fraternities took
a turn for the worse in terms of behav-
ior and physical deterioration,” he said.

Hotchkiss said the trend turned with
thebeginningofFratemityRenaissance
in 1988.

“In the past two years the fratemi-

5 years ago in the Phi — Delta Tau Delta had a year
of social probation suspended after only five
months. The year of probation was imposed after an
incoming freshman was seriously injured following
a Delt Summer Rush party in July 1987.

ties have reverted back to the state they
were in back then,” he said.

But some traditions are noticeably
absent.

Boetsch said freshmen were no
longer required to wear beanies in 1965 .

“In the years that I was a student, the
tradition of wearing a coat and tie to
class faded,” Boetsch said.

He said his only regret about his

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Food fish
5 Cousin to a vise 4 5
10 Attractive one
14 Numerical prefix
15 Lodge

    

7 19

Greek experience was losing touchwith  Slgiggrliize
those who weren’t in the same frater- 13 Make expiaﬁon
nity, 19 Renown
“If we weren’t in the same frater- §g§ff(§'i:foanF1’acy
nity,wenever saw each other,”Boetsch 24 Eye pm
said. 25 City in India
Atkins recalls the lasting friend- 32 %‘;‘n;EbgA
ships and the good times experienced 32 Sound of
in the fraternity. contentment
He remembers one Saturday night  Serf? ht H
when Ben E. King perfomed atan SAE 36 D'eck"f,5emSe °'
Pan)“ _ 37 Tavern
“Entertainment was much less ex- 38 Family member.
- n ' u or s on
pensive then, he”said. We probably 39 Supermaws
paid only $1,500. L055

Hotchkiss said one of the most
memorable parties was the night Beta

41 Harbor towns

43 Radical group @1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

01/21/93

_ , 44 Goblets‘ All Rights Reserved
reenacted Charles Lindbergh’s ﬂight couectively
over the Atlantic. 46 Troubles 9 Promises La K, _
“We went to enonnous lengths to 48 lncllnatlon 10 Let the air out Of 5‘ wee 3 answers-
49 Ice cream holder 11 Spoken

have big theme parties,” he said.

. . 50 8 all blossom
Hotchkiss said one Beta brother m

53 Shakes from

12 Peru’s capital
13 Certain look

 

actually ﬂewinto Lexingtondressed as fear, 21 Work_ Unit
Lindbergh 57 Dpalal -— 23 Mine 5 output
,, 58 Live up to 25 Open-eyed
. The h0U§€ Was SUPPOSCQ1 [0 b6 so Dies — 26 Old gold coin
Paris,” he said. “Later that night we 61 or the ear 27 Dunne or Castle
had a sort of diplomatic ball.” 52 Rem°‘'°v ‘“ 3 28 5'9"?‘ "gm
. way 29 Publish
John remembers some of his memo— 53 weary 30 Catches
rable college moments in relation to 64 Fountain or 31 Rushof air
one of the four major dances sponsored $6898? 32 guddlﬁs
by the university‘  giohngii wound 43 Hﬁnce
“Backthenwehad Openin s Fanc g ' g
. ”g 1 _ Y 41 Big cat
Dress, Springs and Finals, he said. D.OWN 42 Cleaned
“They were all big formals.” ; glgrftffrg jg ’T‘i‘[‘1’;b“‘e5
-_He Said W&L allfacted blgmame 3 Let it stand! 47 Connecting
artists such as Louis Armstrong and 4 More dirty word _
C B ' 5 Ancient vehicle 49 Made a 52 Leave 55 — avls
Oiim asl-6' ' , 6 Water lily selection unmentioned 56 Prophet
_One d‘ff°"’“°_e between nlday S 7 On the summit 50 Failure 53 Difficulty 59  man —-
parties and the parties back then, John a People 51 Not punctual 54 Writer Ambler mouse?"

said, “is that [today] they’re1ouder.”

   

  congratulations
Pi Beta Phi
Pledges! !

Julie Ayers
Catherine Cardullo
Jenna Cowles
Colleen Dunlevy
Megan Fernstrom
Ainsley Fisher
Beth Formidoni
Heather Hall
Emily Hazlett
Elizabeth Hottle
Catherine Lawrence
Margaret Lunger
Joanna Lyman
Julie Powell
Meg Randol
Kim Schooley
Francis Smith
Anna Starling
Kim Stoner
Katie Tollison
Martha Warthen
Ellen Wasilausky
Courtney Wetzel
Lois Wootton

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

 

 

Happy Birthday, St. Bob!

Photos by Mallory Meyers,‘ The rng- um hr‘

The W&L Dining Service celebrated Founders’ Day Tuesday with a Robert E. Lee birthday dinner
in Evans Dining Hall. The menu included Custis-Lee peanut soup, honey glazed baked ham,
southern fried chicken and Stratford Hall potato salad. Above, dancers perform the Virginia Reel,
a square dance from Lee’s time. At right, Lee’s likeness presides over the festivities. The bust was

sculpted from lard and salt.

Students say
King’s dream
must live on‘

By MICHAEL Hawrrzrr
Phi Contributing Writer

Martin Luther King’s dream must be kepg in.
mind if it is to come true, senior Rita Poindexter
says.

On the holiday commemorating the civil rights
leader's birthday, the Minority Student Associa-
tion president said that, though the racial equality
King advocated has been written into law, the
spirit of King's vision must be kept in mind.‘

“The things that Dr. King stood for and worked
for, such as equality of opportunity, peace and
brotherhood,” Poindexter said, “are elements of
which everyone needs to continually be aware and ,
work toward.”

As for King’s dream, Poindexter said it has 4
three different phases. .

“The first phase of the ‘dream has already been '
accomplished which was the legal recognition of ,
civil rights for minorities,” she said. “The second
phase of the dream is the enforcement of the first
phase through things such as governmental pro-
grams that encourage and reward racial diversity.”

Poindexter said the third phase is “ﬁre 4
individual’s realization of the dream.”

SeniorNicky Mayfreld says the effects of King’s
stand on racial injustice and his willingness to .t
advocate change extended beyond his lifetime.

“I’m a direct recipient of those changes,”
Mayﬁeld said.

Sophomore Ayanna Brady agrees that King’s
influence has been momentous.

“Martin Luther King taught us that it’s neces- ,
sary for black people to unite, to be seen and to be
heard,” Brady said.

Brady says King's accomplishments “alloweid \
us to progress as a people, and I think we should i
acknowledge his efforts.” »

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones

Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

(703) 463-2022

  
 

ondale - - Dr: B ia
Jansport day packs and book bags

   

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon 463-7969

   



   
 
    

Needed:
A Few Good

Freshman Men

To Help with Admissions Recruiting.
Call Nancy Hickam at the Admissions
Office, 463-8710.

Dance Class for FD
Feb. 3 PUT
7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m.
in Fairfax Lounge Your
(Frank Roupus — Helping 
students get ready for FD for
10 years!) H e 

$5 a person. Pay 1 hour, stay 2!

on your ood
looks one.

A rem-93
. :: §pATﬁ’tG-1A c

 
   

    

29z5,‘»;;,m.\.».s7a

  

To earn our College Days rate of $14 for lift tickets and $12” for
rentals, all you have to do is show us your valid college ID. And if you
bring us this ad, you’ll save an additional $2 off the College Days lift
ticket rate. College Days rates apply every Monday and Friday after
12:00 pm. So take advantage of your good looks and join the college

crowd at Massanutten.
Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

io Miles East ofvHarrisonburg. Virginia on Route 313

L<_3opyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

__.._._.___.....________..___._______..___________.____I

.l

  

 IWWW

0.ppogo&Qo*'

 

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories
1’.:.'r-..:.*.=:.*..':e.-...... 

 

W&L tudents, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for
your next haircut. We have experrenced Barbers.

Ideal Barbershop

22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below FirstAmerican Bank

 

  

a

Valley 7/Zara"?/* due
_ 9

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

 

A CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

UNHVERSHTY
SPQRTWEAR

15 VV. VVASHINGTCDN ST
LEXINCSTCN, VA 24450
703 464-3000

      

<0: Read the Phi_.

TGIF .

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount o
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
merchandise from America ’s most famous mail

order houses. New shipments Every Week!

Ir1— Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women ’s Wear. 0

There are reductions from 25 — 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00. .
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 ’
703-463-9730

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

SUMMER STUDY ABROAD

\\//

$70 er mi‘

an GVGI‘

Imagine the possibilities

Internships, Language Programs & Study Tours

Singapore 0 London 0 Paris 0 Florence
Madrid 0 Hong Kong 0 Russia 0 Greece
Strasbourg 0 Germany 0 Geneva
Eastern Europe

Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad
119 Euclid Avenue
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
(315) 443-9420/9421

  

.. #

RSTOCKED!
BIG MEN’S SALE

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

    

Id

- Winter Suits - 1/2 Price

- Sweaters - 25% Off

- All Casual Slacks - 20% Off

- All Ties / Dress Shirts - 20% Off
- Chamois / Sport Shirts - 25% Off 7

College Town Shop
111 W. Nelson St.

 

  

   
 
   
  

$ &~l» G

- Sport Coats - 25%-50% Off " ‘

itxecc

   
  
 

c 9
The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1993

 Hams
MEANS LOW PRICES

 
Be er W&L inconsistent in

celosses

   

  

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS «. _ _ 

  

  

.-2
‘ea "‘

 RMS

     

0-50 OUNT

  
  
 
 

TYSON-
WHOLE ERYERS MEDIUM SHRIMP
.‘ LMITSWITH
~ ADDITIONAL

PURCHASE

‘(

  

.399

    

2 sum 10* SALE

P -{G ‘I ’_‘ -7.!

   

\ U

  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
    

       
  
    
   
 

0 KIWI FRUIT 0 TURNIP ROOT
0 TEMPLE ORANGES 0 SMALL LEMONS

0 BAKING POTATOES(BULK) 0 YELLOW ONIONS(MED. SIZE)
6 DANCY TANGERINES 0 DONUTS OR FRITTERS

0 FRESH GARLIC (BULK) 0 FRESH CUT CARNATIONS

I C}.

0 /

   

VALUABLE COUPON

10‘ EACH

Q‘; ' I 1 in II! V W
6Pi1lsh 1 (WW
6Pillshury

‘ WITH
, coupon

‘i’s‘i?.'$’.”i’ I I

_, Brgﬁarnrjlk

"" . ...£‘£?;'F.i£".. I I
4.5 oz PILLSBURY

Bl|1"l'ERMII.K BISCUITS I I 8-5 01-
This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Cou Per Purchase With A $10.00 M u  N 

M‘”I’"“’“ P”’°L‘°59- 0”” G°°d ‘I°"”°'72 I LL“ J°“”°‘7 “I993 I This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. limit One Cou n Per Purchase With A 5I0.00

Minimum Purchase. Olier Good January 2 , ihru January 26,1993
COUPON VALUE GROCERY
I M llamsfeetet ,,,3“;'i,Y,,,,  °°”*’°ﬂ$V"“" llamsreeter p|_u mo 
' j j 1 —— 1 3 T Z 1 1

VALUABLE COUPO

VALUABLE COUPON

       
 
 

 
 
 
   

 

   

r

     
  

   
    
   

 

 
 

   

5 oifiicrswrirlrxpnrss
WHOLE KERNEI. CORN

This Coupon May Not Be Reproduced. limit One Cou n Per Purchase With A $10.00

 

3 OZ. ARMOUR
PO'I"l'ED MEAT

This Coupon  Not Be Reproduced. limit One CC;&.')0n Per Purchase With A $10.00
Mimmum Purchase’ OLLEL Good January ”L"u January 26’]993 Minimum Purchase. Oiier Good January? , lhru January 26,1993

LC9U.PO£ VALUE PGLii’o§§%\; EJ COUPO;tg—c VALUE P$O2Z§Bl3
I Prices Effective Through January 26, I993

P ‘ Th‘ Ad EH 1' W d J 20 Th h d , January 26 1993. In Lexington Stores
0 "C5Sni;.wi§ Reservgcl vee Rig tqifns Lianiil align ilies. Ngiiegsoidelso (llfeaiers. We Giadiy Accept tederal rood blamps.

   
 

     
  
    

conferen

D STRUGGLE, from page 10

Division III play and the Generals have
played them tough twice, but they've
lost twice. The latest coming in Emory,
79-68.

The Generals jumpedout to anearly
lead and had the home team on their
collective heels.

But you don’t get into the top ten by
rolling over, and the Wasps didn't.

They trailed by eleven a few min-
utes before the half. They clawed their
way back to knot the game at 33 just
before the end of the first.

E&H then jumped all over the Gen-
erals a few minutes into the second. A
10-nothing run put the Wasps up for
good, 45-35. After that they coasted to
the 11-point victory.

Mi ggins led the Generals again with
13 points.

The loss dropped W&L to 4-10, 2-
7 in the ODAC. Prior to the E&H
game, the Generals resided in seventh
place in the ODAC, the top eight teams
make the post-season tournament.

That's why the home stretch for the
Generals is so important, eight of their
ﬁnal 10 games are against ODAC foes,
five are on the road.

The toughest part will come at the
very end of the season. Just before the
ODAC Tournament is scheduled to
start quarterﬁnal play, the Generals
must go on the road for ﬁve straight
games.

They begin their trek at Lynchburg
on Feb. 10, three days later they’re at
Roaonke, then at Queen’s (NC) on
Feb. 15. The Generals conclude the
1992-93 regular season at Eastern
Mennonite on Feb. 17 and at Randolph-
Macon on Feb. 20.

It’s very reminiscent of last year
when the Generals needed wins at the

end of the season to make the touma-
ment. This year could have the same
situations.

The Generals willprobablybeﬁght-
ing for a spot with teams such as East-
ern Mennonite and Randolph-Macon,
so those road games could be the most
important part of the season.

Wrestling

By MARK SAPPENFIBLD -- 1
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team left last weekend’s Johns Hopkins
Invitational with a 1-2 record and a
hollow feeling abouttheirperformance.

The win over Haverford, 34-16, and
the loss to Lebanon Valley, 38-6, were
both convincing. But the loss to Johns
Hopkins, 30-19, revealed the still-vul-
nerable top end of the Generals’ lad-
der.

Head coach Gary Franke said the
team was in a position to win the meet
against Johns Hopkins, but they could
notcome up with the wins atthe heavier
weight classes.

“All we needed was one good show-
ing from 167 to heavyweight, and we
would have been in a position to win
the match;” Franke said, “but they swept
us, and we didn’t have a big enough
lead to hold on”.

The Generals got off to a quick start
against Hopkins. Freshmen Rob Sands,

 

 

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Miggins finishes off a W&L fastbreak against the Yellow Jackets.
Miggins has provided most ofthe offensive punch forthe Generals
this season. It will take a concerted team effort by the Generals to
turn this season around In time for the ODAC Tournament.

hosts Invitational

cim Futch and Owen Smith all wonat 

their respective weight classes.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and Adam
Williams also contributed with wins in
their matches. It was at the 167-pound
weight class where the tide began to
turn.

Sophomore Lea Abercrombie lost
at 167,and then fellow classmate Kevin
Batteh lost his match at 177-pounds.
From there, junior Matt McCollum lost
at 190-pounds, and the Generals were
forced to forfeit the heavyweight divi-
sion, giving Hopkins its 30-19 win.

W&L had to give up 24 points to
Hopkins during the ﬁnal four matches.

The Generals did rebound for the
end the day meet against Haverford.

Franke took the liberty of changing
the W&L line-up throughout the
Haverford match. He moved Batteh
down to the 167-pound weight class,
and Abercrombie to 177. Sophomore
Bo King saw his first action this year at
190-pounds, and he beat his Haverford
opponent in a great match for the Gen-

erals. McCollum had to take a forfeit at
the‘ heavyweight class.

Sands, Shirley, and Futch contin-
ued their domination in the middle
weight classes with wins at 126, 134,
and 150-pounds, respectively. Shirley
finished the tournament at 3-0, and
upped his season mark to 6-5.

Abercrombie won his match at 177-
pounds to finish 1-2 on the day.

The Generals get the week to prac-
tioe before they host their annual W&L
Wrestling Tournament this Saturday.

The Generals must prepare for
Davidson, LaSa1le, Longwood, Mes-
siah, Newport News Apprentice, Vir-
ginia Military Institute and Washing-
ton and Jefferson.

The Generals will have a new body
to throw into the mix this weekend.
Freshman Colin Looney will see his
first action, probably at 190-pounds.

The Generals have already faced
two of the teams competing in ‘the
Invitational. W&L lost to Newport
News 52-6 and beat Davidson 33-18.

COUNSELORS: Camp Wayne, co-ed chi1dren’s camp,

Northeastern Pennsylvania. June 22 - August 20, 1993.
Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred), Waterski, Sailing,
Basketball, Volleyball, Softball, Soccer, Gymnastics, Aerobics, Drama,

Nature/Carnping, Guitar, Batik, Dance/Cheerleading, Sculpture, Ceramics,
Painting, Silkscrecn, Photography, Self-Defense. Other positions available.

On campus interviews Thursday, February 4, 1993.

For more Information, call 516-889-3217 or write 12 Allevard St.,
Lido Beach, NY 11561. Include your school phone number.

s‘? W51»

'7 :9»
° 
\l
/of PE0?\5'Q

       
           
  
   

   
    
  
  
  

Students Agginst Multiple §9_le;o_s_i§
&_£_L?_£1Q2R0 k ri A_r2g._e_e_R Ii f 

Lip Sync
Friday, Jan. 22
at 8 p.m.

$4 per person
SI tickets for door prize drawings

One door prize is d Willson-Walker dinner
17 Acts As of Wednesday

   
   
    
  
   
     
   

 

  

 
   

This Week: .
Bba1l- B’water 1/22 7:30;at H-SC 1/27
Swim- Johns Hopkins, Emory,
Swarthmore (M&W) 1/23 All Day
Wrestle— W&L Invit. 1/23 9:30 am

Last Week:

Bba11— E&H 79,W&L 68 (4-10)
MSwim- W&L 111,G’town 94 (6-0)
WSwim- G’town 112,W&L 88 (6-1)
Wrestle— W&L 34,Haverford 16 (2-3)

(lite Eating-tum iﬂlﬁ

SPORTS

 

PAGE 10

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

Men’s swimming remains I
perfect;women lose first

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

After convincing victo-
ries in each of their ﬁrst six
meets, the Washington and
Lee men’s swimming team
is more than halfway to a
perfect season.

Saturday, the Generals
traveled to Washington,
DC. for apre-inaugural vic-
tory over President Bil-l
Clinton’s alma mater, the
Georgetown Hoyas.

Six Generals combined
to temper the Hoyas’ smug-
ness of having the 42nd
President of the United
States. W&L won seven
events in the meet to pro-
duce a 111-94 conquest.

Saturday’s win came just
two days after the Generals
romped all over visiting
Buffalo State, 125-80. W&L
lost only one of the 1 1 events
during the meet. That single

loss was in the 200 medley-
relay.

Sophomore John Rowe
was a double winner against
Buffalo State. He claimed
the top spots in the 100-
breaststroke and the 400-in-
dividual relay. Rowe’s time
in both events were season-
best times, 1:04.64 for the
100-breast and 4:26.47 for
the 400—IM.

The only other double
winner for W&L against
Buffalo State was freshman
Frank Braden. Braden with
season-best times 'in the
l,000—freestyle, 10:17.22,
and the 100-butterﬂy, 56.75.

The two wins improved
the men’s record to 6-0 on
the season, 3-0 since the
team returned from the holi-
day break.

The W&L women’s team
also kept their perfect sea-
son intact with their win
againstanovermatched Buf-
falo State team, 118-74.

FI’OIT| Press Releases

Indoor track kicked off
its 1993 season at the
Lynchburg Invitational last
weekend.

The men were led by their
group of sprinters.

Hayne Hodges, John
Robinson and Chris Kane
all reached the semifinals of
the 55-meter dash.

    

Hodges and Robinson
teamed with David Phillips
and Dax Mahoney to win
the 4x100 relay race.

Mahoney also took sec-
ond in the 440-yard dash,
while Grant Cowell was sec-
ond in the 6()0—yard run.

The women were paced
by sophomore standout
Sarah Gilbert in all the jump-
ing events.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

However, the women
would receive their first
blemish against a much
larger Georgetown team.

The Hoyas outnumbered
the Generals by a 3-to-1
margin and won only five of
the meet’s eleven races. But
it was enough to end the
Generals unbeaten streak,
112-88.

Freshman standout,
Rebekah Prince, said it was
simply a matter of numbers.

“We’ve been outnum-
bered all year long,” Prince
said. “It’s just hard to keep
winning with just eight
swimmers.

“We all swam well, but
we were just outnumbered,”
Prince added. “We’ve all
handled it well.”

Prince continued her phe-
nomenal freshman season by
claiming first in three races
against the Hoyas. She
touched the wall first in the
200—butterfiy, the 200-back-

 

stroke and the 200—breast-
stroke.

Prince made W&L his-
tory during the Georgetown
race with a school record in
the 200-backstroke with a
time of 2:13.83.

Sophomore Brandi
Henderson had another
strong performance with
wins in the 200 and 500-
freestyles, and L1 second-
place finish in the 100-
freestyle.

Senior Claire Dudley
showed she was not washed
up in her ﬁnal season as she
contributed a win in the
1,0()0-freestyle and seconds
in the 50 and 200-freestyles.

The teams have a bit of a
lay—off and then return to
action this Saturday in an
all-day event at W&L’s Cy
Twombly Pool. The Gener-
als welcomeJohns Hopkins,
Emory and Swarthmore to
Warner Center for the four-
way competition.

The men and women will
send full teams to the
Marriott Invitational at Vir-
ginia Tech this weekend.

After that, the men will
compete in the VMI Relays
and the women will head

back to Virginia Tech for the '

Pepsi Invitational.

The two teams will not
compete together until W&L
serves as the host school for

the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference indoor champi-
onships on Feb. 27.

The women’s trial bas-
ketball team went 2-1 in its
first three games since the
holiday break.

The team beat Sweet
Briar 55-34, they lost to
Meredith 71-41 and beat
Mary Baldwin 77-43.

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The R/ng-tum Phi

‘Super’ Human

Former Pittsburgh Steelers’ great Rocky Bleier spoke to a crowd in Lee Chapel Wednesday night
about his experiences in Vietnam and professional football. Bleier received a serious leg injury in
Vietnam after a grenade exploded three feet from him. He rehabilitated the leg and went on to play
on all four Steeler teams that won the Super Bowl. He told the audience that the will and belief that
something can be accomplished is the key to all success.

 

   

 
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   

JANUARY 21,19

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

upped his impressive shooting percent to 68.4 percent.

enerals stumble in
two ODAC losses

By SEAN O’RouRi<E
Phi Sports Editor

Head basketball coach Verne
Canﬁeld is in his 29th season with
Washington and Lee. He has seen it all:
good times, bad times, euphoric times
and frustrating times.

The 1992-93 season has produced
some very bad and frustrating times for
Canﬁeld and his players.

It was only last year that the Gener-
als suffered through one of their worst
seasons under Canfieid’s guidance.

This year seems to be even more
frustrating for Canﬁeld because he be-
lieves he has t_he team to compete with
any team in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

“We can play with any team in this
league when we come to play all-out,”
Canﬁeld said after the Generals fell to
Randolph-Macon last Saturday.

The game against the Yellow Jack-
ets was probably the lowest point in the
Generals’ season. The team came out
lethargic and uninspired and it showed
in a number of different categories.

First off , let me give you the score of
the game because last week I mistak-
enly left the score off one of my game
summaries.

The Generals lost to Randolph-
Macon 78-61.

Early on it appeared the Generals
were a tired team. It was their ﬁfth
game in l 1 days and was being held at
three in the afternoon. The combina-
tion of the two produced poor results.

Those poor results were reﬁected in
one key statistic, shooting percentage.

For the season, the Generals were
shooting 44 percent from the floor, 37
percent from 3-point land. Their oppo-
nents were averaging 49 percent from
the field and 37 percent from outside
the 3-point are.

On Saturday, the Generals had their
worst shooting day, while the Yellow

Jackets could have sunk a 3-pointer
from Botetourt County.

In the first half the Generals shot a
miserable 31 percent, 9-for-29, and
compounded the problem with a 1-for-
5 effort from 3-point range. .

What made the half even more mis-
erable was W&L’s ineffectiveness un-
der the offensive glass.

The Generals could only musterﬁve
offensive rebounds, while Randolph-
Macon controled the defensive glave
by grabbing 14 defensive boards.

Canﬁeld said the players were not
going after the basketball.

“The ball would go up and we
weren’t moving our feet. We just stood
around and you can’t grab rebounds
without moving your feet,” Canfield
said.

The first 20 minutes were tough to
swallow considering the Generals had
brokenaseven-gamelosing streak only
a few nights before against Lynchburg.

The 19-point deficit atthe half could
have been much worse. Most of
Randolph-Macon’s shots hit NBC
(Nothing But Cotton).

They shot the lights out of the
Wamer Center, draining 60 percent of
their shots, going 16-for-27.Tlieyadded
a 4-for-9 performance from 3-point
land.

So now that you know the defense
and offense suffered a miserable 20
minutes, ponder one more stat.

Junior forward Robert Miggins was
the only General to have more than one
basketball in the first half. He went an
astounding 5-for-5 with two rebounds.

Despite his excellent performance
in the first half, Mi ggins never touched
the ball in the second, finishing the
game with his original ten points.

The perfect effort against the Yel-
low Jackets upped Miggins’ shooting
percentage to a stratospheric 68.4 per-
cent.This puts him second in theODAC
for shooting percent, son of.

Miggins doesn't have enough shot

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, 7719 Hing-ium.Ph/'

W&L’s Robert Miglns goes up over Randolph-Macon’s Mark Stewart during the first half of the ga
last Saturday. Of course Migginsmade the short jumper because he went 5-for-5 forthe game, whi -

  
 
  
  
      
   

u

  
   

attempts to qualify him for the hon

“We looked very bad,” said a di
heartened Canfield after the come’
“We were unmotivated and just did
play very well.”

The Generals picked up the pace 1
the second frame, in fact they outgzor
the Yellow Jackets 38-36. But the ho
was too deep to climb out Of,

The Generals shot 48 percent in .
second, but again struggled from dee
going 2-for-7 from 3-point range.

The rebounding on the offensi
end improved, as W&L snaggeddsev
offensive boards during the ﬁnal
minutes.

Still, the defense had its proble
The Yellow Jackets sank 55 percent
their shots and ﬁnished the game
57.4 percent from the ﬁeld.

It was not one of the better g e
Generals have played. W&L en ed ‘
losing by 17, but it wasn't that clo
The game against Roanoke two wee
ago was closer and W&L still lost- a.
17.

“We didn’t do much right tonigh
Canﬁeld said. “Offensively and defe 1
sively, we didn’t do much right?” t

Miggins led the Generals with 1
Senior Bryan Watkins finished wi'
nine as did classmate Bryan Bradin
Freshman Cam Dyer closed out th
Generals’ top scorers list with eight.

Canﬁeld said it was up to the tel
to decide if they really want to {Ray _
not. ' ~~

‘‘I’m running out of answers .,
Canﬁeld said. “Somehow, the yo ’
men have to ﬁnd a very good reason «
play this game.”

The players must have found soni
of the desire they need to reallyuo x.
pete because the team went to Emor
& Henry last night and gave the Was -
a good scare. ' *

E&H is ranked in the top ten i

I

    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
   
    
   
  
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
     
  
  
     
    
  
   
   

    

Ci See STRUGGLE, pa
.0

 

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 

    
   

 
   

' I
. . é ' .
Do You Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVlCES.BOX 1792lI.PLAliTAIION.FL 33318 ' audi nits
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  l want “SAG/MAS.-FERCARDQ Cred" : Aupig . v|DEO . c/in srigpeo
accepted credit cards in the world...Visa® and MasterCard@ 3 Q _ I - }
credit cards.."ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I cards, Enclosed nnd s 5 which is 100% refundable if not I DENON SONY _ .

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . appmved mm,ed,a,e,y_ u ¢g;<'>|rA citilglfwz i

VlSA® and MastcrCard© the credit cards you I I KEF Cw.) 

deserve and need ior— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | I BOSTON oepiuirive ‘
NAME
S’I‘ORES—1'UlTlON—EN'l_‘ERTAlNMENT— . | t(|_|pscH BAZOOKA _
EMERGENCY (%SH-—TICKE'I'S—RESTAURAN'l'S- ADDRESS
| I - SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM
HO,TELS—-MOTELS—(Y\S-CAR RENTALS--- - guygp pgo-rgcnon PLAN
REPAlRS—-AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE _ ZIP | : cm .Nsmw.o~ oemmsm .
- I 
° IC
‘KWTREM '   I 0 Ih,AI,iSS1§ER CARD/VISA/DISCOVER
p _ .

cu ‘S“-“cg: :0 credlfitt d _ '» : SIGNATURE : (393) 463-5667 -,

ml go 5 0 SEC“? Y EDOSIL Non: Masiacimi is n mgmemd tndennrk or Masiuomi lntemtllioml. Int: d j
“:(,..II!':::¢1 03°‘ - . I Visa Is a registered tndeirnlk oI’VlSA us». Inc. mi VISA imemauomi I °‘g::'ﬂ::8§;“’T';f;  ‘ .

$ ‘ Appmml absolutely guaranteed so ' saw“; MarI‘I°n'   ' 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke .
I _ __ _ _ _ I
Q—:Q—QQc QQ9—Q CC ——C— -

    

lit ‘Bing-tum Iﬂlti

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

9vA1§49§o

AN ART1sT’s FAMILY ALBUM

Local

h

otographer

captures t e raw innocence
of childhood

VOLUME 92, NO. 16

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee Mon-
day scheduled a private March meet-
ing to discuss White Book revisions,
contradicting Student Body Constitu-

sl tion rules for closed EC meetings.

In article V, section P, the constitu-
tion states “the Executive Committee
will not go into executive session ex-
cept in the case of possible honor vio-
lations.”

But EC President Josh MacFarland

Q said the planned March 13 meeting at

Skylark, a university—owned confer-
ence center, will be about the Honor

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

System and White Book revisions, not
about honor violations.

“I don’t mean [the meeting] to be a
confidential, executive-session type
thing,” MacFarland said. “It is just a
retreat. Whatever we come up with
will be presented in an open meeting.”

MacFarland said only EC members
may attend the meeting.

One reason for going to Skylark to
discuss EC business is so members can
feel free to discuss anything they wish
without feeling restrained by the pres-
ence of non-committee members,
MacFarland said.

Professor of Journalism Harnpden
H. Smith, who teaches state and local
government, said an executive sessions

are easy to identify. ~

“If they prohibit you from going,
it’s an executive session,” Smith said.
“If they let you go, they can meet
anywhere they like.”

Third-year law EC Rep. Jay Sterne
said he believes the Skylark meeting is
important so the EC can discuss the
honor issues in-depth.

Sterne said that the EC might have
to refer to specific cases in order to
make points during the discussion.

Sterne said he does not believe the
EC is acting unconstitutionally.

“It could be construed [as a viola-
tion of the constitution] if you view the
constitution very narrowly,” Sterne
said. ‘_‘If this were the only discussion

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

this year [about the Honor System revi-
sions], I would feel uncomfortable with
it, but it’s not. This is just the first step.”

EC Secretary Bob Tompkins said

‘ he also wants to discuss specific closed

hearings while at Skylark.

“I would like to discuss things that
come up in closed trials,” Tompkins
said. “I think they serve as good ex-
amples of what might be a potential
problem with the system. You would
lose the full effect of what is trying to
be communicated [if you could not
discuss closed hearings in detail].”

But senior EC Rep. Susan Moseley
said she believes anyone could hear the
Skylark discussions.

lark, we could say in public,” Moseley
said. “I could find that I’m wrong once
we’re there.”

Moseley said the honor issues de-
serve a full day of discussion and that a
retreat would give EC members a
chance to get to know each other better.

MacFarland originally planned to
have the EC discuss a list of Honor
System issues, which was given to him
by Washington and Lee Rector A.
Stevens Miles, at the end of the EC’s
weekly meetings.

But several EC members were un-
happy with the time—consuming pro-
cess and wondered why the EC was
discussing issues if they had no plans
of putting their discussions on'paper.

JANUARY 28, 1995

‘EC to case White Book debate

“We’re just spinning our wheels if
we don’t do something,” sophomore
EC Rep. Robert Stewart said.

MacFarland said the EC would take
notes on the Skylark discussion, com-
pile the most common opinions and
save them for next year’s White Book
review committee.

He said an open meeting after the
Skylark retreat will give the student
body a chance to comment on Honor
System issues.

Stewart said it would not matter if
the meeting at Skylark were open.

“I suppose Josh could put up ﬂyers
saying ‘everyone come to Skylark,’
but I don’t think anyone would come,”
Stewart said.

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fling-tum Phi

Peyton Turner, Jennifer Galardi, Courtney Tucker and Ashley Bell grimace to House of Pain’s “Jump Around” at
‘Lip Synch Saturday. All four women are Kappa Alpha Theta pledges.

Students crash Lip Synch

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS

. Phi Staff Writer

Despite at least 40 students sneaking into
Friday’s Lip Synch at the Pavilion without
paying, the event raised $4,300 for Multiple
Sclerosis and RARO, $300 more than orga-

Qtizers hoped for. '
“We’re really happy about the [way Lip
« Synch went],” said Ashley Myler, one of Lip
Synch’s organizers. “We were just bummed
[that people snuck in]. It was a charity.”

Myler and Elise Hagensen told the Execu-

tive Committe Monday there was an absence
of “honorable behavior” from some students
at the Lip Synch. ‘

Lip Synch advisor Gerald Darrell said the
difference this year was ineffective student
security at the back and side doors. Darrell
guessed 40 to 60 people did not pay for the
event.

“People always try to get in without pay-
ing,” Darrell said. “I think it’s a real problem
with student conduct.”

EC President Josh MacFarland said he is
surprised at the behavior of some students.

“The Honor System applies beyond the
Hill and everyone should know that,”
MacFarland said. “The [behavior at Lip
Synch] was inexcusable anywhere, not just
at W&L.”

Myler said that if everyone at Lip Synch
had paid, the event could have made about

$5000. Myler said the price of admission was
$4 until 11:30 p.m., when the price dropped
to $2.

Hagensen said several students refused to
pay even the reduced price.

The Minority Student Association, per-
forming Sir Mix-a-lot’s “Baby Got Back,”
topped the field of 25 acts Friday to win.

A group of Sigma Phi Epsilon members,
“The SPE Gees,” took second with disco
standard “Stayin’ Alive.”

Kappa Alpha Theta placed third with
“Elvira,” by the Oak Ridge Boys.

Darrell said last year’s Lip Synch raised
$3,650. He said Lip Synch began eight years
ago in the‘Generals Headquarters with ﬁve
acts. It raised about $400.

By ANDREA Cobain ‘V
‘_  .v Phi Contributing Writer

Washington and Lee swim- . has.’ I
mers swam their toughest meet
of the year Saturday.

-Their opponent was a stack
of bills.
I Beginning with the last re-

. lay race of their meet, the men’s

: ‘and’ women’s swim teamsii

» swam for 24 hours to raise '
money for Susan Elkins, aLex-

. , ington woman who is taking
care of her dying two-year-old
daughter.

Kristen Elkins is deaf, blind,
has a sixth ﬁnger on each hand
and is microcephalic, which
means she has an abnomially
small head. ‘

“This child, who has only
‘lived two years, has reallymade
a difference,” Washington and

needed.

  __ , isnwiirh. ’i§oachii._~P_ i_.
 _.Remillard ;said“";,‘.‘Sornebody;=' ‘ .
-  who lives a ‘1if¢tiﬁ1¢ n1ight.1m>1t
touchas‘rnar1y‘peopleasKif'isteny
llard said Wednesday

that the swim-a-‘thou reached
its ‘$5,000 goal, but more is‘

‘ Remi

“It went very well,”
, Remillard said- “T,here* were
::i‘c'h‘e'r:ks’::. _ ‘ j j
Rockbridge County; But‘ there
isdeﬁnitely a continued need.”
The money the teams raised
willhelppaythebillstlratlfllkirls
has incurred over the pa‘st}sev-
eral months, as well as bil
still to come. ’
“I didn't want to’ see Susan
opening up bills,” “Remillard
said. “I knew there would be
sympathy cards. That’s all I
want her to open."
Elkins’ husband left her

eight times aday.

from " ll 2 ever!

take a shower?”

rial Baptist Church.

-soon afte_rJKristen born.
‘ , I i __.gp°ast two years,
Elkinsﬁcame home after teach-
ing all dayto replace the full-
-time babysitter who ,t0,0I<.care
‘ of 'Kr’istenv:dt4ring the day.-.
‘fBut,_takin’g_'care of Kristen
wasa full-time‘ job in ‘itself.
‘ Because of ‘her condition,
—Kristen..often vomited.,.six* to
-“Susan woke up at"2"a.m. to
cleanher baby. [and then] at 5
a.m., to clean her baby,”
Remillard said. “She [was]
paranoid to take a shower. Can
you imagine being scared. to

Remillard said he first be-
came, aware of Elkins’ situa-
tion in December at a Sunday
School class at Manly Memo-

D See SWIM, page 8

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

On Wednesday, Jan. 20,
Washington and Lee junior and
Arkansas native Trevor Norris
crowded among thousands of
onlookers and stared as Bill

’ Clinton became the 42nd Presi-
dent of the United States.

But watching his former gov-

’ emor be sworn in on the Capitol
steps was something Norris had
to see to believe.

“I was really proud of him,”
Norris said. “I was just glad he
kept [his speech] short, so people
wouldn't start making fun of him
before [his term] even got
started.”

Norris got tickets to the inau-
gural ceremony from his father,
who has worked with Clinton for
the past 12 years. But he was not
the only W&L student who found
a way to witness the event.

Sophomore Cameron
Huddleston said that even though
she never saw Clinton face-to-
face, listening to his speech

“Anything we would say at Sky-

IFC proposes
new Flush plan

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The IFC has come up with a
tentative, new structure for next
year’s Rush, but the faculty will
have the final decision.

The Interfratemity Council
Friday presented its preliminary
proposal to the Student Affairs
Committee. The proposal in-
cludes an open contact period
prior to Rush, fewer Rush dates
and more severe penalties for
Rush violations than in the past,
IFC Vice President Tom
Washmon said.

But Dean of Students David
Howison said Wednesday that
the IFC proposal is onlya recom-
mendation to SAC.

Howison said SAC will con-
sider the IFC proposal, then cre-
ate afonnal proposal, which must
be approved by the faculty.

“I absolutely believe there is
an overall agreement that changes
are necessary,” Howison said.

But, he said, “the discussions

are much broader than just when
Rush will be held.”

In the past, freshmen were
underclosed
contactrules
as soon as
they got to.

 carnpus.The

IFC pro-
posal re-
leased Tues-
day would
allow open
contact dur-
ing fresh-
man orienta-
tion throughout the first week of
classes.

Rush sign-ups would be on a
Sunday, 10 days after classes be-
gin. On Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday, freshmen would at-
tend nine 45-minute open house
periods, Washmon announced at
Tuesday's IFC meeting.

The following weekend
would be an enforced closed con-
tact period under the proposal.
Fraternities would be allowed to
hold parties, but rushing fresh-

Washmon

men would not be allowed to
attend, Washmon said.

He said freshmen found vio-
lating this rule would lose their
rushing privileges.

Punishments for Rush viola-
tions by fraternities have not yet
been proposed, but are expected
to be severe, Washmon said. An‘
earlier proposal set a fine of
$2,000 for fraternities who take
freshmen out of Rockbridge
County prior to or during Rush.

The Monday and Tuesday of
the second week of Rush would
include four Rush dates, two less
than in previous years.

Wednesday would be closed
contact and bids would be ex-
tended on Thursday, Washmon
said.

Freshmen would accept their
bids Friday.

“This is just a discussion
within the Rush Committee,”
Washmon said of the plan. “By
no means is it set in stone.”

Tonight, the committee will
further discuss the penalties, rules
and open contact guidelines.

SAB makes profit fall term

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

The Student Activities Board
made aprofit of $3,000 fall term,
which organizers chalk up to
good publicity.

“We had really successful
ticket sales for Homecoming and
the Spin Doctors,” SAB Chair-
man Robyn McCord said.

“We did a lot of publicity out
in the public and at neighboring
schools," McCord said. “We had

among the energized crowd was
something she will always re-
member.

“When he was giving his
speech, everyone around was so
excited,” Huddleston said.

“There were a lot of young people .

around, and in his speech he re-
ally reﬂected on how much he
had needed the help of the young
[to get elected].”

Junior Binky Parkins said the
excitement of the day trans-
formed a normally scary city into
a fun one.

“With as many people as there
were in town, you’d expect
people to be pushing and shov-
ing,” Parkins said. “But people

were even giving up their seats

on the Metro.”

Though not all the W&L stu-
dents went to the inauguration as
Clinton supporters, most came
away with a good impression of
the new President.

“Just being [at the inaugura-
tion] was enough to make any-
one who was iffy [about Clinton]
aconvert,” senior Allison Ausley
said.

a lot of people from [the Univer-
sity of Virginia] at the Spin Doc-
tors.”

McCord said beer helped, too.

“We made the beer garden a
permanent fixture at all the con-
certs,” McCord said. “That way
people knew it would ‘be there.”

McCord said the profit re-
sulted from a strategy of concen-
trating on concerts, and keeping
movies in the Troubador The-
atre and Wednesday activities in
the‘Generals Headquarters on a
shoestring budget.

“We never make money on
[moviesandPitevents],”McCord
said. “They’re' designed to pro-
vide entertainment for the stu-
dent body, not to make a profit.”

McCord said that, because of
the budget surplus, the SAB is
looking into sponsoring more
events during the rest of the year.

“We’re still looking for a big
event for the Thursday of [Fancy
Dress],” McCord said. “Then
we’ll probably have a jazz con-
cert later in winter term, with
Lyle Lovett or someone like that.”

Students revel in Clinton festivities

Sophomore Todd Cloaninger took this picture from his
vantage point of Wednesday's inauguration. He said his
spot was “pretty good, compared to a lot of people."

PAGE 2

 

 

Ellie Zaing-tum lﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

Nothing happens
for the first time

The striking resemblance of this week’s lead headline to the
Phi lead of May 10, 1990 —— “Report: EC breaks constitution”
— is an evidence of the journalistic principle, “Nothing ever
happens for the ﬁrst time.”

In a knockdown-dragout debate destined for a place in EC
history, law student and Constitutional Revisions Committee
member Walter Scott told EC Rep. Mark Cobb in 1990 that
Cobb had “voted against the constitution” when the EC closed
its doors for a Fancy Dress budget hearing. ,

It was with considerably less tension in the air that EC
members Monday finalized their plans for a closed meeting at
Skylark where they will talk about the Honor System.

It’s too bad there wasn’t a Walter Scott at Monday’s meeting.
He probably would have bitten EC President Josh MacFarland’s
leg and refused to let go until the EC canceled its plans.

EC President Josh MacFarland says he wants the EC to gather
at Skylark to talk about the Honor System in private so that
members will feel free to scream and yell at each other. Maybe
they’ll even use those rods with foam pads on the ends to beat
each other.

All in all, it might not be such a bad idea, in terms of stress
relief. The only problem with the plan is that it’s unconstitu-
tional.

The writers of the Student Body Constitution very wisely
mandated that the EC would enter executive session only in the
case of a possible honor violation. Unfortunately, they did not
deﬁne executive session, and the EC, at least since 1990, has
pretty much disregarded the constitution and made up its own
rules for when they may meet privately. In 1990, they called
these “closed-door meetings.” Tlley’re calling this one a “re-
treat.”

Executive session by any other narne.... The term indisput-
ably refers to any closed-door meeting of the committee. They
may meet at Skylark, but any student who wants to go must be
allowed to do so. MacFarland need not recognize any students
in attendance to speak, but students must be allowed to observe.

It might be a good idea for EC members to yell and spit at each
other some to get out their frustrations. That sort of technique is
psychologically helpful for any group of people who have to
work together. It’s cathartic. Fraternities have retreats. Families
have retreats. Religious groups have retreats. But the EC is
fundamentally different than all of these groups. The EC is a
body of elected officials. The EC is accountable to the student
body. ‘

The lack of EC accountability in a private meeting is even
more alarming considering the subject matter. The EC will be
privately discussing the Honor System. On Nov. 12, 1992, we
said in this very column, “The future of the Honor System
should never be discussed behind doors closed to all students.”
Then we were worried that the Board of Trustees might discuss
the Honor System in private. MacFarland assured us that the EC
would not condone such an act. Now the EC is planning to do
just that.

Sophomore EC Rep. Robert Stewart said he would not expect
many students to show up to the meeting if it were open. That
is our worst fear. At the end of the day, a government may only
escape accountability if its constituency allows it to escape. In
the interests of preserving representative student government
and encouraging free and open discussion of the Honor System,
we urge students to contact the EC and express their support for
opening the Skylark meeting to community scrutiny.

— CL, RP, GP, NM

OPINION

    
 

O

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

tiotlsisvls Gt-rs‘-tori},
cHAK1‘2.Eo5E wimp
1 Page-:<‘:r Fog ri-re: New Mralmzy "

Nice‘

0

we ’I'Hlt~7}¢ A
81:‘

UHIFORMS.

Injuries sting less when dealt at once

WASHINGTON —- Bill Clinton’s
presidential debut hasbeen farshrewder
than his critics would admit. If you

why he is President and his millions of
conventionally-wise critics are not.
The reasons for acting now are, in

have to do fact,eas-
something un- ily dis-
popular,hisbe- ' c e r n -
hmormhes, CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS me,
better to do it Tribune Media Services 1-
quick. . Clinton
The. side- said he
walk superin- would.

tendent argues otherwise, of course.
He says that the freshly-niinted Chief
Executive should cool it on his com-
mitrnenttoend the ban on letting openly
homosexual people serve in the mili-
tary. Instead, the argument goes,
Clinton should dump his reform pro-
posal unto a“commission,” some blue-
ribbon burial ground from which it
would never be exhumed.

Purveyors of conventional wisdom
would have the new President conduct
a similar interment of any deficit-cut-
ting plans. Instead of letting Treasury
Secretary Lloyd Bentsen trial-balloon
new consumer or energy taxes, Clinton
should put off any such talk ’til long
after the recovery is underway; next
year at the earliest.

In moving full steam ahead on both
fronts — allowing gays in the service
and moving early toward genuine deﬁ-
cit reduction —— Clinton is showing

His campaign promised to cut the
federal deficit by half during his first
term of office. Clinton’s inaugural
address underlined the commitment,
speaking often of “sacrifice" and end-
ing the “bad habit of expecting some-
thing for nothing.”

As long as the U.S. government
continues paying a huge chunk of its
annual expenses by selling U.S. prom-
issory notes on the world market, it
slips ever closer to becoming a Wash-
ington D.C. check-clearin g house, with
tax checks coming in one door, T-bond
interest payments going out the other.
The longer Bill Clinton puts off doing
something, the harder it becomes.
Congress is not about to enact a tax
hike in 1994, an election year for Capi-
tol Hill. A President seeking re-elec-
tion himself is unlikely to push for or
sign one anytime thereafter.

Bottom line: If Clinton needs to do

it, he needs to do it now.

The same is true on Clinton’s prom-
ise regarding gays in military service.
Having made the promise, he has no
choice but to keep it. Waiting ’til later
will make that challenge all the harder.
Those who counsel delay or reconsid-
eration are, in effect, counseling inac-
tion. They know it. So does Clinton.

2. Loyalty.

Come next election, Clinton will
need the support
of those on the

better that he tried his first presidential
term and promises to try again in a
second.
3. History. ‘F
Experience teaches that it’s better
for presidents to take tough stands early,
perform the crowd-pleasers later.
Jimmy Carter, the last Democrat to
sit at the big desk in the Oval Office,
delayed biting the bullet on double-
digit inﬂation until his last year i!
office.
Only when he

activistwing of A  _ faced the touchy
hlscoalitlon who s Machiavelli wrote electorateml9S0d1d
worked thehard- five centuries ago, ¢cIn_ he call for politically
est for his elec- . . . necessary cuts in the
tion. Far better Jurles Should be In‘ federal deficit. 0
thathe _ntr1eet htis flicted all at once, for gig nlciistzilse. ll,
commi men s I s ac lave 1
the less they are tasted -
now than on the 9 wrote five centuries
eve of the next the less the offend ’ ago,“Injuriesshould
presidential elec ’ b ' fl‘ t d 11 t
- ° e in lc e a a
tion. atime when ggllgrgﬁfeegitls, tﬁleoulgd once, for the less they
he will be ac- 1 y are tasted, the less’
tively seeking ﬁtﬂe Sothat they might they offend, while
f_upp<1>rtfrompo- be better enjoyed ,, beIlefl(I1S1I:.i’10gll(f' tie
ltica centrlsts, ' grante it e y ltte
manyof whom sothattheymightbe
hold strongly tra- better enjoyed.”

ditional views on matters of sexual
orientation.

Even if Clinton fails in the fight to
end the ban on gays in the military, far

1993 American translation: Mr.
Clinton is right to take the tough steps
now.

©1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Gllil: ﬂing-tum iﬂlit

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O'Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Managing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plununer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Republicantide sweeps rising South

COLUMBIA, S.C. — This state, the first to
secede, seems vehement about its long memories of
evergreen grievances. The capitol — yes, the build-
ing — is decorated for its war wounds: Brass stars
mark spots where Sherrnan’s artillery pitted the
walls. A plaque on a statue of George Washington
holding a cane offers this austere explarlation: “Dur-

sional seats. Republicans made a net gain of 14
congressional seats in the South, which voted against
the Democrats’ all-Southem ticket. South Carolina
gave.Bush 48 percent, his second-best total (second
to Mississippi’s 49.7).

Arkansas gave Clinton his only Southern major-
ity. Clinton carried Georgia, but only by 16,000

ing the occupation of Co- votes,and three weeks
lumbia by Sherman's later in a runoff
Army, soldiersbrickbatted Democrats lostaSen-
this statue and broke off GEORGE WILL ate seatthere.Repub-
the lower artof the walk- , _ licans gained state
ing cane}? Washington Post Writers Group legislative seats and

But for all this back- local offices across
ward looking, no statehas the South. Campbell
changed more than South said two-thirds of

Carolina in 20 years. And inside the capitol sits a
governor who is both an effect and a cause of some
of the change.

Carroll Campbell, 52, was a Republican con-
gressman for eight years, including 1981, the golden
Year One in Republican remembrance. He helped
forge alliances with conservative “boll weevil”Demo-
crats, passing Reagan's tax cuts and getting a tanta-
lizing taste of power. But futility is the norm for
House Republicans, so he ran for governor. By virtue
of educational and other reforms he has become,
according to Michael Barone of The Almanac of
American Politics, “an exemplar of governing con-
servatism for the nation."

In 1973 South Carolina’s anemic economy de-
pended disproportionately on military bases pro-
duced by congressional seniority, and on low-wage
textile plants.Today BMW's $600 million planthere
joins international investments by Fuji (film), Mita
(office equipment), Hitachi (television tubes), Nan
Ya (industrial chemicals), Hoffman-LaRoche (phar-
maceuticals) and others.

V In a state once notoriously cross about the con-
striction of states’ rights, Campbell practices cre-
ative federalism, competing with other states to
produce an alluring business climate. Such competi-
tion is one reason why the South is growing. And, ‘
Campbell says contentedly, the South is growing
steadily more Republican.

Campbell insists that Republicans nationally “lost
the presidency but won the election.” The Democrats
were held even in the Senate and lost 10 congres-

Perot’s Southern supporters voted Republican down
the ballot.

Of Clinton, Campbell says, “If he becomes a
Democrat, he’s in trouble.” By “becoming a Demo-
crat” Campbell means, primarily, making tax in-
creases the .

advanced its transformation from the party of Grove?
Cleveland's passive government to Woodrow
Wilson’s activism. In 1964 Barry Goldwater pro- 4
duced a constructive defeat, making the GOP a
fighting force for conservatism.

Campbell, who in August becomes chairman of
the National Governors’ Conference, believes the
ideas that energized the Republican revival undef
Reagan — low taxes,jan emphasis on economic
growth—sti1lcommandamajority,and,il;deed,that
this majority is still growing. Conceivably, Campbell

‘might seek to capture that flag as the Republican

nominee in 1996, his other options being blocked.
He must leave the govemorship in 1994. Demo-
cratic Sen. Fritz Hollings was just re-elected as Soutl9
Carolina’s junior senator — junior although in his’
27th year in the Senate. Republican Strom Thurmond,
elected in 1954, will be only 94 in 1996 and may run
again so he can celebrate his 100th birthday in the 1
Senate gym. a
Campbell directs a departing visitor’s attention to
an office por'

administration's trait of John C.
“Iain ‘.°P‘° °f What makes Republicans melancholy is not .Ca“?°““»l°°“‘
discussion. Al-V . lng -so fierce
ready mm is that they lost the presidency, but rather that the pomai,
ample evidence their 1992 campaign was so sterile. Not all painter must
that Democrats - W-ll- - B have said '
mmpam in defeats are sterile. . 1 ram Jennings ryan Somemingdis,
Clinton’sWaSh- took the Democratic Party down to defeat respectful
if’1‘1%“’C"aI‘$,l)ef1‘l‘.1; three times, but in the process he advanced its fiiggfs‘ SW65’ .
expectation; transformation from the party of Grover A ,1 d
‘"“*eY will Seek ~ Cleveland ’s passive government to Woodrow Campbell Says
first to tax, and W] , t. . he has hung in ‘
tofundtlieircon- 1 Son S ac 'v‘Sm° the govemor’s!
stituencies.” mansion a pic-
The middle- tureof Andrew

class tax cut is a receding chimera. The rising tide of
talk about “a broad-based energy tax” and consump-
tion taxes makes this the pertinent question: How
large will be the increased tax burden — however
indirect and disguised —— on the middle class?
What makes Republicans melancholy is not that

they lost the presidency, but rather that their 1992

campaign was so sterile. Not all defeats are sterile.
William Jennings Bryan took the Democratic Party
down to defeat three times, but in the process he

Jackson — the most truculent president — now that ' v_

it has been determined that Jackson’s birthplace was,
at the time, on the South Carolina side of the border
(subsequently adjusted southward) with North Caro-
lina. I C
Calhoun, Jackson. Working beneath the baleful
stare of two such pairs of piercing eyes, it would be

odd if Campbell did not occasionally raise his eyes -

toward national prizes.
© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

LETTERS

Hill attitude to ward fraternities sparks frustration

To the Editor:

A lot of things have changed since I
ennolledatWashingtonandLee in 1989.
While I can accept the loss of Lloyd's
and the transformation of Lee-Hi into
Berky’s (with a bitter smile), I cannot
believe the change that has taken place
in the attitude toward fraternities. It
troubles me so much that I feel com-
pelled to write my first letter to the
editor, in defense of a system ranked
first in the nation by the Princeton
Review, a system which is integral to
the life of the campus. Your article
“Record 22 Depledge” (Jan. 21, 1993)
has forced me to respond to some mis-
conceptions about our system.

The most glaring problem with the

Hill’s attitude becomes apparent mid-
way through the article. You report:
“Dean of Students David Howison said

fraternities should consider lowering
their fees to allow more students to
join.” Now Idon’t know exactly what
Dean Howison said, but I expect that
this is a fairly common attitude on the
Hill. While Dean Howison is correct
that fraternity fees have increased dra-
matically over the past couple of years,
it is wrong to blame this on the frater-
nities. The university hasdrastically
increased the cost of our membership.
First, the university requires us to pay
our house mothers, even though they
are not our employees and we have no
control over them. They are university

employees, hidden behind the guise of
our house corporations. Our house cor-
porations hire and pay them (using our
money), but they are directed by the
Hill. If the Hill would just admit that
they are indeed university employees
and pay them like other staff, it would
reduce our costs by more than $10,000.
Second, the Hill has raised our room
rent to match university housing. When
we set our own rent, it was around half
of what it is today. And the Hill raises
that cost each year. Third, and most
important, the Hill has imposed the
“Greek Tax,” arguably the most bla-
tant taxation without representation
since the Stamp Acts (unless you count
the Lexington CarTax). This adds four

hundred dollars to each member’s bills
every year. When the fraternities signed

, over our leases in order to pass through

Fraternity Renaissance, we assumed
that ownership of the houses would
adequately compensate the university
for raising money to pick up renova-
tion costs. Then we were blindsided by
this tax on our associations. Not even
the Communist Party has to payatax in‘
order to enjoy their right to freedom of
associations. In sum, the fraternities
have not increased our “fees”; the Hill
has increased them for us. ,

I am also disturbed by the allegation

that the increase in depledging is “the
' O

C] see FRATERNITIES, page 3 .

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1993

PAGE 3

Spos plots havoc with help of E-mail

$05’ SPACE
' By Tom Hespos

“At every level of business, there-
fore — at the level of global.standards
for television and telecommunica-
tions... at the level of the retailer’s
cﬂeckout counter... at the level of the
automatic teller machine and the credit
card... at the level of extra-intelligent

i electronic networks... at the level of

competitive intelligence and counter-
intelligence —— we are surrounded by
info-war and info-warriors fighting to
c&1trol the most crucial resource of the
Powershif t Era."
-Alvin Toffler, Powershift
The resource Tofﬂer refers to is
knowledge, of course. The very nature
of power as we know it in our society is
changingrightbefore our eyes. Knowl-
elﬂge is the new commodity upon which
our society is based. Although Tofﬂer
is 100 percent correct, I can still re-
member that weekend when I had to
write a paper on his stupid book for
Professor Lowry instead of doing more
productive things, like drinking beer.
' Although Spos still regrets spend-
ing an entire weekend sans, beer, he
would like to thank Professor Lowry
for molding his view of new technol-
ogy. Data breeds information and in-
formation breeds knowledge. What
better tool is there in today’s world that
CO1 better help one distill data into
knowledge than a computer?
That’s why Spos kept an open mind
when this newfangled electronic mail
system (commonly referred. to as

“E-Mail”) hit campus. Computer Sci-
ence majors spouted its merits to the
student body. They said it represented
the future of communication. They
said it was a great new way to talk to
friends. They said it would cure the
AIDS virus. Actually, no. They didn’t
say it would cure AIDS. However,
they said that it did the next best thing:
It allowed you to talk to people at other
schools for FREE.

Having spent over 48 bucks on a
single phone call to Sweet Briar during
freshman year, Spos
quickly saw the ad-
vantage of becom-
ing knowledgeable

Spos’ first step to-
ward losing his E-Mail

from place to place within the commu-
nications network. Such playful ex-
ploration is strongly discouraged, as it
could potentially cause overseas banks
to fail. (At this point, Spos would like
to accept full responsibility for recent
fluctuations in value of certain stocks
of the NYSE. I really didn’t mean it—
I swear.)

In mere minutes, Spos was able to
learn the procedure for sending amo-
rous letters to his girlfriend at Sweet
Briar. This quickly evolved into send-
ing electronic
threat messages to
certain members
of the W&L fac-

in the ways of , , , ulty warning
i3-Mai1_ virginity was to open against giving
3905’ ﬁrst Step that envelopethat they Sposanythmgless
toward losing his , . 1 thanan“A.”
E-Mail virginity g_aVe 0|“ at mamcu 3' This, in turn,
wasto openthaten- t10n,Youknow, the one quickly evolved
velope that they - into sending por-
gaveoutatmatricu- that most falthful nographic mes-

lation. You know,
the one that most
faithful Spos’ Space

readers probably

niade a r>=iI_r>erd that eventually ended
p ane outo an t -

eventuallyendedup up In the trash’

Spos’ Space readers
probably made a pa-
per airplane out of and

sages to people all
over the world at
random. As amat-
ter of fact, some-
one in Osaka
should be reading
Spos’ version of

in the trash. Inside
this envelope were
several vital pieces of information that
allowed Spos to log onto the
university’s computer system and start
wreaking international havoc, namely
his Internet address and password.
After logging onto the system, Spos

began exploring the system, hopping"

“No Ifs, No Ands,
Just Butts” right
now.

“How exciting,” I thought to my-
self. “This could be a dangerous
weapon in the hands of a madman like,
say, Saddam Hussein.”

Couldn’t you just picture
newly-inaugurated President Bill

,is:

Clinton participating in an E-Mail con-
versation with Saddam Hussein? It
boggles the mind:

Hussein: “Bill, I will enjoy having
Hillary as my personal concubine after
this Gulf War mess is all over. Next
time, try inhaling. Marijuana is noth-
ing like mustard gas. Trust me. Love,
Saddam."

Clinton: "Saddam, As I sit with my
ﬁnger poised above ’the button,’ I am
at a loss for reasons to preserve your
sorry life. By the way, if] see any more
aircraft in the no-ﬂy zone, I’ ll nuke you
clear into next week. Love, Bill.”

As a matter of public notice only,
and not as an invitation to harrass our
new president, Spos would like to men-
tion that Bill Clinton’s E—Mail address
stoner @ whitehouse.
saxophonegennifer.

If you decide to drop him a line, tell
him that Spos says “Hi” and that he
would really appreciate a cabinet ap-
pointment soon so that he might get out
of the W&L Hell-hole and get into a
position where he might do some real
damage.

In any case, Iurge you, as W&L’s
source of vital information, to famil-
iarize yourselves with this wonderful
new technology. Keep pace with the
ever-changing realm of computers.

It might even net you a substantial
sum of cash in the future. Speaking of
cash, let's access Spos’ account at
Crestar bank and move some decimal
points around. You get my drift?

 

. WLUR

WLUR will broadcast Verdi’s
opera “Un Ballo in Maschera”p (A
Masked Ball) on Saturday, Jan. 30
at 12:30 p.m. At 5 p.m., George
Will’s speech from the Founders’
Day/ ODK ceremony will be broad-
cast on 91.5 FM.

Ski Club

There will be an important ski
club/team meeting tonight at 7 in
Newcomb. Ski trips will be an-
nounced, as will the team schedule.
Questions? Call John at 463-9495.

Admissions Job

The W&L Admissions Ofﬁce is
now accepting applications for an
anticipated admissions counselor
position. All interested graduating
seniors should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday,
March 1 to Associate Director of
Admissions Julia Kozak in the Ad-
missions Ofﬁce.

Calyx

You can still sign up for Calyx
senior pictures. Schedule sheets are
located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
free in the university center. Sign up

El FRATERNITIES, from page 2

result of freshmen who are committing more time to
aifgdemics and questioning the value” of fraternities.
ou quote one freshman as saying: “W&L has risen

. to an academic level that brings in people who are not

prepared for the fraternity system.” The underlying
argument appears to be that fraternities discourage
academics, or impair the ability of students to achieve.
This is simplyuntrue. Extracurriculr activities do not
take away from academics, they add to a student’s
trtfe education. And fraternities are full of good
students. While I haven’t checked the lists to get an
exact count, I know for a fact that many University
Scholars are in fraternities, and there are a number of

Phi Beta Kappa_s_s"yho r:,ome,,fr,orri"’tli,e ranks _of the ‘

various houses. When our pledgesor brotlrerstum in
poor grades, we have brothers help them study for
clgsses. We do this out of a sense of responsibility for
our members. The ability of a freshman to discuss
classes with older fraternity members is invaluable in
helping them adjust to the rigors of W&L academ-
ics. On an anecdotal level, my grades actually in-
creased by half a grade point during winter term my
freshman year, as pledging forced me to budget my
time and focus on academics. ‘

As far as the university bringing in students “who

i are not prepared for the fraternity system,” I would

like to make two observations. First, a student who

, is not able to handle a social life and the responsibili-

ties of pledgeshipis probably not a very well-
rounded student. A good student should be able to get
involved in the life of the campus, including the
fraternity system, and still maintain strong academic
standing. If the University is bringing in students
who are unprepared to handle fraternity life and their
academics, as many students currently do, then we
havenot risen toahigher academiclevel. Instead, we
seem to be sinking. Second, I think that in the last
cmple of years the university has made a serious
error by focusing on “raising the academic level” of
the school. What in the world does that mean? Does
it mean raising our mean SAT score? Getting a larger
number of high school valedictorians? More Na-
tional Merit Scholars? These are the standards of

.h0ld’position,s of academic and exuacurgipular_Ie*ad§~.

LETTERS

“excellence” applied by other schools. While it is
important to attract high caliber students, it is foolish
to measure a student by the numbers. The university
should be looking for men and women of honor and
achievement, people with the character that distin-
guishes W&L from a Cal-Berkeley or a Harvard.
The type of students who can achieve high academic
standards while realizing that there is more to college
and to life than reading a text book.These are the type
of students that join fraternities and sororities, and
who participate in other extracurricular activities
around the campus. A student who is not prepared for
more than studying is not the type of student with
something to contribute to the unique character of
this institution. Fraternity men and sorority women

ership in all aspects ot"'W&I:; life". i ’l?l=ri,s happens
because fraternities are not collectionsof druiikeii‘
dunces. They are collections of individuals who seek.
to excel at life, notjust at school work. Students who
are not prepared to play as hard as they study are not
the type of students who have traditionally flourished
at W&L. Certainly you do not have to be in a
fraternity to add to the university community, but
you do have to participate in extracurricular activi-
ties to truly contribute to the life of this university.
I agree with the argument that hazing is a problem
in some fraternities, and I believe that the IFC should
do more to reduce the existence of physical and
mental abuse that takes place in some houses. How-
ever, “pledge responsibilities” are not all frivolous or
painful. Requiringpledges to gain an intimate knowl-
edge of a fratemity’s history is important to forming
brothers with an appreciation of the nature of their
fraternity and the importance of its history, just as it
is important for W&L students to study the history of
this institution in order to fully appreciate it. Requir-
ingpledges to do clean-ups and to work on improving
the beauty of the houses is not hazing. It forces
pledges to prove their dedication to the organi7ation,
and to develop a sense of responsibility toward the
house and the brotherhood. Pledges who carmot
contribute to the upkeep of the house will probably be
unreliable brothers. Fraternities are about tradition
and responsibility, and pledges must work to prove

-Interviews and Photos
By Darran Winslow

   

that they are ready to carry on the banner of their
chapter. It is unfairto call all pledge activities hazing,
or to regard them as foolish and unnecessary. There
is no justification for true hazing, but there is a need
for pledge education and responsibilities. Life is
about learning how to balance responsibilities.

' The fraternity system at Washington and Lee is
not perfect by any means, and where it can be
improved, we should work to make it even better.
The source of change, though, should not be the Hill,
it should be the students. This school prides itself on
student autonomy, but the Hill seems to take more
power away from the fraternities every year. As a

result, the fraternities resent the interference of the

university, and resist it at every turn. If the Hill steps

 back andLal,lows the. IFC ' d.il'l ivi_ ual pte . ‘to’?
  ay ha ‘gent?
 winimprove onitsown‘. ‘t-tst 4w‘ it onale

behind student government. If we are supposed to act
like adults, then we must be allowed to.

In the end, fraternities play an important role in
the life of this campus. Fraternities produce leaders,
and allow students to grow in directions far beyond
academics. College is a time for growth, not just for
studying. Unfortunately, the Hill seems to have lost
sight of this. This university above all others should
recruit students who excel in academics, but who
also come to college. to cultivate their social and
leadership skills. And maybe even some students
who enjoy going to a party. I think that the attitude of
theHill toward fraternities has changed these last few
years, and not for the better. The Hill has lost sight of
the fact that fraternities help produce well-rounded
individuals.The most telling point in all of this comes
from Dean Atkins, who is responsible for Greek Life
on this campus. The man who should most under-
stand the importance of the fraternity system spells
out the disturbing attitude of the Hill quite nicely. He
notes that “the university has an interest in keeping
fraternities’ numbers high . . .”. Because of all they
contribute to the character of this university, right?
Wrong. Quite simply, the Hill “relies on the Greek
Tax to pay for Fraternity Renaissance.”

Heath Dixon, ’92

TALKBACK

 

Lisa Smith, ’96, Atlanta, Ga. —“A Ashby Hackney,’94,Richmond,Va.
. good looking man in a cheap pair of

tighty whities.” Lex.”

 

-— “When Jim runs out of 40’s at East 93- —‘

Robyn McCord, ’93, H

  What is your biggest pet peeve?

 

early to avoid a late fee.

Superdance

Registration packets for
Superdance are available in front of
Carol Calkins’ office. Sign-up to be
a dancer. and support MDA!

Big 4 Elections

Petitions for Executive Commit-
tee president, vice president, and
secretary, and Student Conduct
Committee chairman can be picked
up at Carol Calkins’ office and are
due by Feb. 1.

Phbt6gtaphs,artwoﬂ<;‘plietryand
prose for Ariel must be turned in to
Carol Calkins’ office by 5 p.m.,
Feb. 1. Questions? Call Brian Car-
penter at 463-1001.

Pub Board

The Pub Board will meet Mon-
day , Feb. 1 at 8 p.m. in The Ring-
tum Phi office. Dates for editor se-
lection interviews will be discussed.
The meeting is open to the public.

ii}; |il'|l'4 is: .

  is Republicans

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Summer Jobs

Face it, summer is just around
the corner. You don't want to be
stuck at home again this year. Look
for summer employment the easy
way. Meet employers at the Sum-
mer Opportunities Day on'I'hursday,
Feb. 4 from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the
CD&P Office.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, please don’t
drive. Call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Fridayand Saturday nights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. If you’re
interested in helping drive call Mel-
issa or Jess at 464-4017.

Dresses

Rockbridge County High School
is having a consignment shop for
prom dresses. Dresses will be on
display until the end of March and,
10 percent of the sale price will be
donated to the Future Homemakers
of America. Questions? Call Joan
Whitesell at 348-5084.

Film Society

The W&L Film Society will
present “Ran” on Friday, Jan. 29
and Saturday, Jan. 30 at 8:05 p.m.
in the Troubadour Cinema. There
is no charge for admission and ev-
eryone is encouraged to attend.

Women’s Forum

There will be a Women’s Forum
meeting on Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in
the Arlington Women’s center. The
topic will be “Women in Business:
Is there a Glass Ceiling?” Everyone
is welcome.

College Republicans will hold a
meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 2 at 7:30
p.m. in the Mock Convention Of-
fice. Affirmative action will be
discussed.

LOSt

Goldcuff-link with round lace.
If found, please call Carlin at 464-
3758.

nity service 3. conduct probation

Student Notice

The Student Conduct Committee found a senior woman in violation of
university standards for breaking a window in a fraternity house. The SCC
imposed the following sanctions: 1. Restitution 2. Three hours of commu-

ouston, Texas and Darcy VanKirk, ’93, Sewickley,

“Guys who don’t appreciate us for our intellect.”

Andrew Campbell, ’94, Delhi, N.Y.,
— “Annoying Talkback questions.”

  

a.:_

Pete Jalbert, ’96, Tampa, Fla. — 
“When I go to the Palms, and I meeta 3
girl, only, when I take her homel find 
out it was actually a man.” 1

 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1993

Students reject ‘love-it-or-lea ve-it’ Honor System

To the Editor:

I would like to comment on the “My View” essay that
was printed on page 3 of your Jan. 14 issue, which itself was
a response to an earlier essay by Suzanne McCord. In
responding to Mrs. McCord, the author makes many loosely
connected points, one of which seems to be that at least part
of the unfairness in the W&L Honor System is “unavoid-
able,” since the Honor System is an “institution created by
the fallible hands of humanity.” He goes on to state that “I
easily excuse the few errors a human institution such as the
Honor System is liable to make —— accepting even the
potential victim of myself —— in lieu of the overwhelming
good the system otherwise produces.” (Surely he meant “in
light of,” not “in lieu of,” for who would excuse and accept
those errors in place of or instead of that overwhelming
good? Not even he, I assume.) The author seems deter-
mined to blame the bulk of the Honor System’s unfaimess
on the inevitability of the fallibility of human reason, as if he
doesn’t want to admit that much of the unfairness can be
corrected. 1 do not know whether we can do better. But we
ought to try.

When the author ﬁnally does consider the idea of reform,
he writes, “The Honor System is indeed harsh and structur-
ally imperfect, but these are points only the students affected
by it have a right to address, not lookers-on such as yourself
[Mrs. McCord].” Here the author’s alarming complacency
about the near-perfection of the Honor System is com-

- pounded by a petty refusal to take suggestions from certain
proscribed sources of input. If Mrs. McCord really has “no
true understanding of our community” (as he claims), then
her recommendations will be lame and will die the natural

' death that would befall any other uninformed opinion. So if

‘ we discard an opinion as unhelpful in our quest to improve

our university, we should do so because the ideas them-
selves lack merit, not because we are so defensive that we
spum any external criticism.

The author calls Mrs. McCord’s insight “myopic.” But
has the author, while complaining about the speck in her
eye, overlooked the log in his own? He denies that our
system can be improved much, rejects suggestions from her
because they are from her, then calls her bitter. Finally, he
exhibits an unfortunate self-righteousness that is painfully
glaring in his assertion that “certain ideological living
conditions. . . arm us with something most of the world
outside W&L grievously lacks —— honor.” While I share the
author's conviction that being educated at W&L is an
extraordinarily enriching experience, I am also convinced
that the author has overestimated the “honor differential,” if
you will, that distinguishes W&L. Sanctimonious moraliz-
ing can only hurt us if we are sincere in our commitment to
strive for fairness.

In order to be fair myself, I carmot deny that the essay did
contribute to the debate in a meaningful way. Nor do I
begrudge much the author’s attempt to enliven his essay
with some especially strident attacks on Mrs. McCord (for
we all say some things we shouldn’t), but I do wish that he
had paid as much attention to the quality of his ideas as to the
flourish of his rhetoric.

In the end, his essay has the shrill ring of someone who
fears criticism with such anxiety that he desperately stoops
to venomous indignation in order to ward off advice such as
Mrs. McCord’s. I hope that the W&L community will adopt
a more honorable approach to the question of reforming the
Honor System.

Ben Eggleston, ’94

To the Editor:

Mr. Coffin’s contemptuous attack on Mrs. McCord’s
commentary in the recent Ring-tum Phi cannot go unan-
swered. We would like to apologize to Mrs. McCord for the
disrespectful tone that was evidenced in his letter and assure
her that not all Washington and Lee students reacted to her
thoughtful letter with such unthinking hostility. In fact,
those whom we spoke to thought that the letter was an
objective and probing analysis of the procedural failings of
the Honor System. The only conclusion we can draw from
Coffin’s hostility is that truth is often a painful pill to
swallow.

Mr. Coffin’s letter displays unprecedented self-righ-
teousness. How easily Mr. Coffin states, never having been
subject to the Executive Committee's vagaries, that he
would willingly accept the “vestigial risk of judicial error”
and the “few errors” that the Honor System may produce.
Each of these errors impacts on individuals whose worlds
have come crashing down upon them due to procedural
inadequacies inherent in the current system. Moreover, Mr.
Coffin’s implication that the Honor System is some sort of
mythical sacred cow that carmot be challenged is asinine.
No system is perfect; we, as members of the community
bound by this system, welcome helpful observations of any
individual, even if they originate from someone who has not
been subject to the Honor System.

We strongly advocate a reconsideration of the proce-
dures that surround theplionor System. We believe that
many of Mrs. McCord’s suggestions should be carefully
considered by the EC and the Washington and Lee commu-
nity at large. Mrs. McCord’s observations are not iconoclas-
tic. To the contrary, theyare thoughtful, and apparently well
documented criticisms of avenerable yet fallible institution.
First, the fact that students face a harsher punishment if they
appeal Executive Committee decisions is indefensible. Such

a disincentive punishes students who firmly maintain their
innocence and discourages meritorious appeals in adraconitn
manner. Second, the concept of the same individuals
conducting both the investigation phase and the judgment
phase seems to eliminate any chance of a fair hearing before
unprejudiced fact-finders. Third, why isn’t a unanimous
vote required before an individual is found guilty of an
honor offense as occurs in a criminal trial? The ramifica-
tions of a finding of guilt are certainly serious enoughéo
justify a unanimity requirement. Besides, if all of these
violations are as clear cut as Mr. Coffin implies, then
unanimity will be easy to attain.

Finally, why must the whole system be shrouded in
secrecy? We can understand the need for secrecy during the
investigation and if the charges are dismissed or the student
is found innocent, but why must the circumstances sur-
rounding a ﬁnding of guilt be kept secret? Any system that
requires such secrecy is bound to raise suspicions. Does the
post-hearing secrecy really serve any purpose besides cov-
ering up arbitrary decisions and preventing the student body
from knowing the reality of the system to which they have
knowingly subjected themselves? We doubt it.

In conclusion, we were glad to see it announced that the
EC has agreed to establish a formal process for reviewing
the Honor System and revising the White Book. We hope
that the debate over revision of the Honor System continues.
Unlike Mr. Coffin, we can support the concept of an honor
system while still acknowledging that the system itself is far
from perfect and that procedural inadequacies exist which
must be addressed. We strongly condemn the juvenile aid
close-minded “love-it-or-leave-it” attitude that Mr. Coffin
espouses.

Greg Garbacz, ’93L
Jon Soderberg, ’93L

Student regrets lack of diversity at university

 

'.
K
'».
. v
»
..
I
.4
., 4
‘A’
t .
9
,-.
it
2"-
v
0‘!
u’.
I‘.
n
4
,.
:4
a
a
9
4,
p
at
an
1.
a
4
or
‘'4
°.-
‘C
"4;

0'60

..',5.- J. t '. .. -'s'.{’X‘,t 4'3: -)"~>'a ?§'.°'J'.*s’s .'z ;- . s n a I at ulsrit .\‘o'.s'a‘s*t~*a‘.e’¢’e’:*a"s*>';‘6.it*e‘.i»'I

3 To the Editor:
'3 As a freshman student here at Washington
13 and Lee, I have been both delighted and frus-
:3 trated with various aspects of the University.
 As my W&L experience commenced, I discov-
ered manypositive characteristics of the school.
I My classes were small, my professors were
.4 able to be reached when I needed them, the
" faculty and student body seemed kind, and it
.' really was a beautiful, quaint campus. As the
3 first term progressed, however, I was to unfor-
Iv tunately come to the realization that W&L
I lacks possibly the single most important qual-
T ity that makes the college experience so en-
T lightening.
3 As I continued to struggle through the first
1 term academically, I began to meet many new
i friends and I even started going to parties of all
; kinds. This entire process was all so new and
-; exciting to me, and combined with the aca-
- . demic pressure of the first term of my freshman
3 ' year, I was completely oblivious to the fact that

4.»

_ ., »...t.  ». W.-,..  3.

nearly everyone I had met (and when I say parents and increasing your intellectual capac-
nearly everyone, I mean around 95%) hailed ity. An essential part of the college experience

from the same, privi-
leged, conservative,
upperclass upbring-
ing. Which brings
me to the point I
would like to discuss
in this article.
vital quality I alluded
to earlier is diversity.
One word. D-I-V-E-
R-S-I-T-Y.

Now, I don’thave
any results from stud-
ies done or any fancy
numbers to provethat
diversity is a crucial
element in the col-

The’

An essential part of the col-
lege experience is meeting
people from different ethnic
and cultural backgrounds who
bring with them a different per-
spective on society and life in
general.

is meeting people
from different eth-
nic and cultural
backgrounds who
bring with them a
different perspec-
tive on society and
life in general.
Unfortunately,
for the majority of
W&L students
who hail from
privileged back-
grounds and who
attended expensive
private schools,
they will never

lege experience. I can, however, say with
certainty that going away to college is much
more than gaining independence from your

have the opportunity to become familiar with
these different cultures and outlooks on the
world. It is for these students that I feel the most

a‘-

BJEEHT

the 4

PRESS

' l

o-x.~a-nu

  The Ring-tum Phi
invites you to an Open
House at the Phi Office,
University Center 208,
ll ct.m.-4 p.m. on Feb. 5.

 Talk about the Phi with us
 and see how your news-
paper is made!

<4»
<4»
(0)
(0)
<4»
<1»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<<»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
(0)
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
(0)
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4»
<4» '

sorry. In spite of the fact that they will probably
graduate with a degree from one of the finest
liberal arts schools in the country and land a job
earning large sums of money, they will be
altogether absent of any perspective other than
their own.

What I'm trying to say is that this is exactly
what is wrong with our society today. Racism
ﬂourishes in American society for precisely the
reason I described earlier. There is no under-
standing between people of different races and
cultures, or any effort to understand for that
matter.

We suffer as a nation because people are so
caught up with themselves and how much money
they hope to earn someday or have already
earned, that they allow themselves to remain
totally ignorant of other perspectives and cul-
tures.

I believe that the true strength of our nation I

lies in the diversity of our people, and the only

-‘-way-~ to hamess« that strength is --to promote 3»

LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLJE-‘LJLL
&%€%€%%%%€%%%€%%€€T%%€%

tudent

ctivities

presents -

Munrie Night
in the  
Thuuhaduuri

Featuring

SNEAKERS

Thursday, January 28th 8:0(i) p.m.

Saturday, January 30th 3:00 p.m.

understanding and awareness among all of us.
I would like to sum up by saying that in order for
our nation to move forward as a whole, we mu t
recognize that everyone plays an intricate ro e
in making us great. We must promote nation-
wide understanding and awareness among all
of our people, and stray away from racism and
ignorance.

If tlrere’s one thing I’d like you to remem-
ber about this article, it’s that in order to care
about something, you must first understand ii.
We all owe it to each other to make an effort to
become less self-oriented and understand one
another more.

Unfortunately, W&L just doesn’t offer us
this opportunity. Anyway, to _those (few) of
you who can relate to what I have expressed in
this article, I wish you luck in your quest far
different ideas and perspectives here at W&L.
Just don’t stop trying.

tEvafi”Af Knisely, ’96

(ii)
(0)
(0)
(0)

44» .r
<4»
(0)
<4»
(0)
(0) '
<4» I
(0)
<4»
<4» ,
(0)
<4»
<4»  
<4» 
4»
4»)
<4»
<4» 
<4»
<4»
<4»
(0)
<4»
(0) -
<4»
(0)
<4»
<4»

oard

(0) i
. (0)
(0)
(0) .i
(ll) 2
(0) ..
(0)
(0)
(0) '
(0)
(0)

<4» _
(0)
(0)
(ii)
(0)

<1» - ,

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT

 

<4» ° ‘

<1» "

R

    
    

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

Aussiker F
to head
counselors

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Reporter

h

Junior Heather Aussiker was ap- ‘

pointed head dorm counselor and jun-
ior Jamie Hardman was named head
resident assistant for 1993-94.
Dean of Freshmen and Residence
.J.ife Dennis Manning said the selec-
tion committee looked for students who
“represent most clearly the kinds of
qualities that freshmen would aspire to
themselves.”

Aussiker said she will concentrate
on training the dorm counselors and

‘getting them more involved with each
other.

“A well-trained staff will benefit
the incoming freshmen,” Aussiker said.

Aussiker said that though she will
focus on the dorm counselors, she will
always be ready to help anyone with a

problem.

“Of course, my door will always be
open if someone needs help and can't
get a hold of a dorm counselor.”

The head dorm counselor is respon-
sible for all 30 dorm counselors.

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

What’s that smell?

Merlin, an albino ferret, checks out his owner's shoes during

a walk on campus. Merlin is currently looking for a new home.
His owner, sophomore Andrew Sutherland, said Merlin is litter
trained and costs $160, including litter, bedding and the leash.

Women’s clothing.

Now $3.00. Se

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and

Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99

Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)

Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

 

PAGE 5

W&L fraternity members face
criminal, IFC investigations

By CATHRYN LOPICCOLO
and RICHARD PELIZ
Phi Executive Editors

Several W&L fraternity members
could face criminal charges and disci-
plinary action from the IFC for cutting
down a $150 bamboo tree in a VMI
professor's yard.

Virginia Miliary Institute Professor
of Electrical Engineering John Gordon
reported to police about two weeks ago
that a bamboo tree in his yard, at 724
Thom Hill Rd., had been cut down by
trespassers at night. According to a
report ﬁled with Lexington police, the
vandals left a trail of bamboo down
Main Street.

Sally Gordon, James Gordon’s wife,
said she reported the incident to Wash-
ington and Lee Associate Dean of Stu-
dent Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins on Jan.
18. Atkins said he found the perpetra-
tors.

“I checked around to see who might
be responsible, and [several students]
admitted to having done it,” Atkins
said.

Atkins refused to identify the men
involved in the incident. He said the

students were not aware that the tree
was on private property and that they
apologized to the Gordons. Sally Gor-
don said eight men apologized.

Police Chief Bruce M. Beard said a
criminal charge of destroying private
property is pending, and the incident is
under investigation. The case's inves-
tigating officer, Sgt. Torben Pedersen,
was out of town and could not be
reached this week.

Sally Gordon said that although the
men apologized, her husband intends
to press charges. She said the destruc-
tion of the tree was not an isolated
incident.

“We’ve had trouble with this the
whole nine years we've lived here,”
she said.

In the past, the Gordons did not
press charges because the damaged
trees were at the edge of their property
line, Sally Gordon said. But she said
the tree in this case is clearly on the
Gordons’ property.

She said W&L students have asked
permission to cut down the Gordons’
bamboo in past years, and the Gordons
have said no.

The W&L Iiiterfraterriity Council is
still considering disciplinary action

against the men, Atkins said. He also
said incidents similar to the bamboo-
cutting happen frequently.

“This is one of those things that
happens every year,” Atkins said. “ [The
IFC] just doesn’t seem to be able to get
the message across.”

Fraternity and administration offi-
cials are also investigating a weekend
incident in Red Square.

Pi Kappa Alpha house mother Ann
Davis called security when shethought
an intoxicated student might have dam-
aged the house, Atkins said. The day
after the incident, Davis found a dead
fish in her apartment.

“This is in the process of sorting
out,” Atkins said.

The identity of the intoxicated stu-
dent has not been confirmed, and it is
not known if he put the fish in the PiKA
house.

Davis would not comment other
than to say the incident was not what it
seems and is not newsworthy. Security
Director Mike Young said he does not
know the details of the incident.

Atkins said, “I feel confident that
the individual will be dealt with by
[his] fraternity or the Student Conduct
Committee.”

  

    
   

  

 

  

Letters to the
Editor are due

Tuesdays at
Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 - n90” to The _
ected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00. Fling-tu m Phi

office, 208 Uni-
versity Center.

 

 

W&L Summer Programs

W&L Dining Hall &. Lexington COW §

YMCA Camp Thunderbird
YMCA Camp Woodstock

I
0 ‘ Live in an exotic location.

     
 
  
   
    
    
      
  
  

:.:.-.-.-.-I.-.-I.-I:-.-.'L-iv. .5 -u -.-.-.- ......................... -.-. --------------------------------------- . -.-.-.-3': ...... ' .'.'.'.-.'. .v. .-u- .............. .-.r .................................................. .-.r ........................ ' .-l. .............................................. ____ _ f, ‘1

 v  W&L Art
  ¢ 4 %t¢«6(/5411/5  187°Was.*;mg.;°r,1,<.;°v,e.ge Diploma
55 E s ne “ . e"

 Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 am.  Mam Lee S‘g““‘“’°;°;;E_ me. J,_
 All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at  liitirfeﬁh ""° uuw;’r‘2i“iz‘ai§f.‘il}i’é'
 Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 3.IIl. t0 2 p.111. All-U-Can Eat   W<%VL&(I:oppgrglate re-lsrtglike. hand-colored
 . . . 5 an E.Lee t d dlti art
55; Wednesda Ni ht BBQ NI ht - choice of otato & ve atable 5 Sculptures by Reuerueniselin

D ;:; : George and Mary Washington pieces
. 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95 _ 

- Saturday Night Prime Rib  ﬂ ’ ‘
 Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 T E l lllllllllllllfi
5:5 , rucli Stop 2
 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day. _   
 4  North on Route  ‘   4 East Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday
5; . E -_- Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
 . We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell ,: = , (703)
;_-:;._..,_.._.,a_.._._.,. ......................................................................................................................................................................... ._ .  ................................................. .. k _ 5' J1
. _ E_____ _____________________E,  ._ .   
P { : , Just do it!
I
1 ‘ E °"’°& sUMMER%%
I _ .
U a : E 
; , OPPORTUNITIES 3.,
e
I Got
C :  DAY '3
~ 6 I l
I
/ A g. E THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1993

I | .

;    : 11:00 A.M. UNTIL 4.00 P.M.

l ._ ..

- I1 ,  studentto g UNIVERSITY CENTER
A. gchairman of the board;  at
I G b b d d h bod | Camp Bethel _ ' Q
_ d : meaub§.i.uZ§§i‘I3i‘3irVrSiiefgreipivlévfriiwbgaﬁ .l‘.§‘§;‘.l::t : C=unvBr°ad,st°ne~APva*a°h1anSW Um“ 0%,

| our challenging half pipe. Ski Massanutten any Monday or Friday after | ¢},“°' Camp C”°““a 33)

I 12:00 pm for our College Days rates, just $14 for a lift ticket with your I .35’ Cam!’ C317 5b'°°k 2) O3
: valid college ID. Bring this ad and you’ll receive an additional $2 off the ' ‘[00 Camp 535151’ S331 x O 6!»
| College Days lift ticket rate. Lessons and limited snowboard rentals are : Q\° % Caroline Fumace I-“them Camp  ré .

C  : available. So come on, join the fun. And prove who's the boss. I Q?’ Camphill 3911396 OJ’ (5)
a ‘ I Camp Meme-Woode o
3 :  : «S» cunpmoc-«me. es,
| Virginia s Four Season Mountain Resort I  Camp Rockmont for Boys 6
 - 8 5 8 1 I  Axlileisv "E2"z:sVtmo'f7l:larrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33 I   Sca  &  SCa.faIer 
LCopyn'ghl 1993. Great Eastern Resorts. WL -I:   Towanda ' 
-~—-——-"’ _  ______ _--"-""""""'  CarnpWalden  ‘QOJ,
M M Q, Camp Wayne ‘
L this Elk's Camp Barrett ‘Rf,
" Friendship Conference Center 53
Hecht's-A Division of the May Dept. Stores Ce 96
. \- Inteniational Foundation/Employee Benefits ‘foe,
, , $000 Ken-Mont and Ken-Wood Camps 96
| E \)- National Park Service, Capital Region 90
Public Defender’s~Office '
Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear, Refugee Resettlement & Immigration Services
‘ Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount S0t}IhW<_=St¢m_C0-
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive U’“"e’S"Y_ Palnle’-°~ 19°-
merchandise frotn America’s most famous mail U;S°,EF‘3"5h F{’v““d“':§’“ l B d
order houses. New shipments Every Week! V"g““‘ 5”“ 3”" °"”° °"

 

PAGE 6

 

FEATURES

oi the century photographers, such as Lewis Carroll, resemble Mann’s photos. “Sally managed to
take new kinds of photographs with an old piece of equipment,” said Ted Orland, former assistant
to Ansel Adams. ~

This selfportralt oi Mann  her chllen aso features her large-format caera. he work of turn

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

 

‘IMMEDIATE

Local photographer Sally Mann
chronicles the bumps, bruises

ocal resident Sally Mann

and two of her three chil-

dren rubbed elbows last

week with celebrities such

asactress Kim Basinger and
rapper L.L. Cool J at MTV’s Rock the
Vote Party.

In recent years, Mar1n’s photogra-
phy has catapulted her and her family
into the national limelight, far from
Lexington, where she was born and
raised.

At her home, not far from historic
downtown, visitors are greeted in the
driveway by two red, metal dragons. A
cherub sits on a ma1mequin's legs that
stick straight out of apatch of dirt in her
front yard. As visitors approach the
front door they might not notice an-
other dragon peering at them from the
roof.

The walls of the home abound with
Mann’s photographs of her family, es-
pecially those of her three children.

Thirteen-year—old Emmett, 11-year-
old Jessie and seven-year-old Virginia
are the subjects of
Mann’s latest col-
lection of black-
and-white photog-
raphy.

Her latest
book, titled “Im-
mediate Family,”
spans eight years
of intimate pho-
tography and is
turning heads in
book stores.

“Itisanexpres-
sionist, sometimes
metaphorical
chronicle, of
growing up in a
particular place,”
she said.

V But the artistry
of Mann’s black-

The Mann girls look just “gorjus“ playing dress-up. ‘‘I suppose I could do a normal domestic picture of the kids doing
their homework," she said. “But that’s not what I do.”

and-white prints is not the only con-
cern of viewers. Some of the haunt-
ingly powerful portraits show her chil-
dren in the nude, and the photographs
have prompted debate on their value as
art.
Her latest collection includes pho-
tographs of her young children not
only nude, but
stained by dirt and

and beauty of growing up.

gets merchandised.

“I don’t respond to the carrot of
money,” she said. “They can’t have.
their prints just because they can pay
for them. It will take at least two to
three years to finish the order and they
[the buyers] are just going to have to
wait.”

Some critics

blood.
“The book is so

BY J over: BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

draw parallels beb
tween Mann ’s work
and that of Robert

hard-hitting,” she
said. “It got me into
trouble that I didn’t intend to get into.
Looking back on it, I would have liked
to put in softer, less aggressive pic-
tures.”

Some critics accuse Mann of ex-
ploiting her children, while others find
the sensual innocence of the work cap-
tivating. Richard Woodward of The
New York Times Magazine, in a Sept.
27 cover story, described her work as
disturbing and provocative.

Mann said the controversy was
“media-generated and media-fueled.”

“There wasn’t a controversy until
The New York Times said so,” she
said. *

Mann’s work is part of permanent
collections at the Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art and Museum of Modern
Art in New York, the National Mu-
seum of American Art and the Hirshom
Museum in Washington, D.C.

At her June exhibition in the Houk
Friedman Gallery in New York City,
collectors ordered about 400 prints,
she said. The New York Times esti-
mated the orders to be worth about $1
million.

“Those ﬁgures are remarkable for a
photographer, in a recession,” Mann
said. “The emphasis of the shows seems
to be on sales.”

She said the only thing that troubles
her about the attention is the way the art

Mapplethorpe.

But Mann said
the formality of Mapplethorpe’s work
has always bothered her.

“His work seems stylized and im-.
personal,” she said. “They’re too
staged.”

Mann said she prefers taking photos
that seem more candid, but she said she
values Mapplethorpe’s effort.

“What he tried to do was make
something many people think of as.
‘dirty’ beautiful,” she said.

Like Mapplethorpe, Mann has re-
ceived grants from the National En-
dowment for the Arts. She said NEA
funding has become more acessible in
recent years.

“In order to receive a grant from the
NEA [before],” she said. “I could not’
submit pictures that could be judged
‘obscene.”’

When The Wall Street Journal ran a
photograph of then four-year-old Vir-
ginia, it censored her eyes, breasts and
genitals with black bars, according to
Woodward's article. '

The cover art of “Immediate Fam-
ily’-’ features Mann’s three children
bare-breasted and ready to take on the
storm of critics and admirers.

But Mann believes her children’s
comfort in front of the camera reﬂects
their self—conﬁdence. 9

“They have no doubt about what
they can be,” she said.

Mann said Virginia appears in more photographs than her other "'

two children.

“Damaged Child” — 1984 — This photo of then tour-

year-old Jessie prompted Mann to take more pictures
other children. Here, Jessie returns from school after
being bitten by gnats.The connotation of child abuse
was intentional, she said. For Mann, titling is a gut

reaction.

 

The Fling-tum Phi, January 28, 1993

FEATURES

The cover of Mann's latest compilation of photography, “Immediate Family," features her three children looking defiantly on
the world. “I chose this photograph because they look so self-possessed," Mann said. Her children, from left to right, are
seven-year-old Virginia, 13-year-old Emmett and 11-year-old Jessie. The photo conveys each child’s distinct personality:
Virginia is “in your face," Emmett is “far too cool" and Jessie is “mature beyond her years.”

. party.

Mann's children find the whole ce-
lebrity experience to be quite an adven-
ture.

“It‘s pretty cool,” Jessie said. “You
meet a lot of people and go to lots of
places.”

OThei children said R.E.M. lead vo-
calist Michael Stipe visits Mann in
Lexington every several months.

“Stipe was the one who invited me
to the MTV Rock the Vote party,”
Mann said. “It was the first time I had
seen him perform. He was fabulous.”

‘The youngest child, Virginia, was
absent from Wednesday’s inaugural
But she is usually an
indispensible element in her mother’s
work.

..‘fI like dressing up in ball gowns for
her, but sometimes she takes too many
[m'ctures],” Virginia said.

Emmett is more straightforward

about why he models for his mother.

“I’m a main part of her income,” he
said. “She needs me.”

Mann admits it is difficult to be an
artist and a mother.

“I want to be their friend, but I also‘

have to be the one to ground them when
they need it,” she said.

To her neighbors, Mann says she is
just another local.

“To lots of people, I’m simply
Larry’s wife.”

Mann said she once exhibited apho-
tograph of her husband swimming in
the nude.

“A writer from the Roanoke Times
saw it and wrote that I had photo-
graphed my husband with an erect pe-
nis,” she said. fflt «was» ridiculous. I
mean, come on, the water had to be
only 60 degrees.”

Laurence Mann, a Lexington law-

This photo of Jessie is one of many photographediat the Mann

c8bin on the Maury River.

“The Last Time Emmett Modelled Nude" — 1987

0

Photos by Sally Mann, reproduced with permission

yer and 1970 W&L graduate, met his
wife during his senior year. '
“It was love at first sight,” she said.
Mann completed her college educa-
tion at Hollins in 1977, while living in
Lexington and working as a photogra-
pher for W&L.
Mann said that Lex-
ington is an environ-
ment that fosters artis-
tic work.
“There are very open
people here, and on the
whole, they are toler-
ant,” she said.
Despite Marm’s ar-
tistic achievements,she
said hermain goal is not
a creative one. - -~
‘‘All I want to do is '
send my kids to col-
lege.”

“The Wet Bed” - 1987 — This photograph of then two-year-old Virginia was staged by Mann. Virginia said this is
her favorite picture of herself.

    

PAGE 8

Students help locals

Cl SWIM, from page 1

He said Elkins wanted to play the
bells for Kristen, who can hear high-
pitched noises, but she could‘ not hold
Kristen and play at the same time.

Remillard wentto see how he could
help, "and Elkins asked him to hold
Kristen.

“An interesting thing happens when
you hold a baby,” Remillard said. “I
bonded with that baby.”

Soon after Christmas, Kristen
stopped vomiting and her eyes began
to roll back in her head.

Elkins took Kristen to the Univer-
sity of Virginia hospital, where the
child has gone once a week for the past
two years for medical care.

The doctors told Susan that it was
time to stop trying. They said Kristen
was too weak to vomit anymore and
that her eyes rolled back in her head
because she was in severe pain.

Elkins took a leave of absence from
her jobso she could be with Kristen
day and night.

 
 
  

\\\\

 

 .

 

  

\\

Positions include: Tennis, Golf, Swim (W.S.I. preferred),
Waterski, Sailing, Basketball, Volleyball, Softball, Soccer,
  Gymnastics, Dance / Cheerleading, Aerobics, Drama,

"//////////////////////// ////7///////J’/////////////////////////////////////////
/

pogo9.Qo*'

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories
23 N. Main St. (703) 463-5988
/ Lexington, VA 24450

ﬂ

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redli Car

Now you can have two-of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Visa0 and MasterCard@
credit cards.."in your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISAG and MasterCard0 the credit cards you
deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
ST ORES—’I‘UITlON—ENTER'I‘AI NM ENT-
EMERGENCY 0iSH—TlCKE'IS—RESTAURAN'l'S—
HU_I”ELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS-
REPAiRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

Other teachers volunteered to give
Elkins their own paidpsick days, but
were told that it was illegal.

So Remillard decided he wanted to
do something for Kristen.

“I [couldn’t] give her a bone mar-
row transplant,” he said. “ I [couldn’t]
give her blood.” A

Remillard thought he could do more
if he joined with other people.

That's when Remillard thought of
his swimmers.

Remillard said the swim-a-thon, in
which swimmers swam for 30-minute
shifts, went well.

“The dependability and the account-
ability of the athletes was impressive,"
he said. “Everybody wanted to be a
part of the recovery process.”

Contributions to the Kristen Elkins
Memorial Fund are tax-deductible and
may be sent to the Manly Memorial
Baptist Church, 202 S. Main St.

“It’s like when you and your friends
pool together to buy a special gift for
someone,”Remillard said. "I'hat’s what
we’re doing.”

     
 

\

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

 

Sweatin’ bullets

  

oto y J si, I Fling-tum Pm

Representatives from Wachovia Bank chat with senior Brian Brading, right, at a reception for students who plan to interview with the

bank. According to the latest Career Development and Placement Office report, 51 percent of last year's graduates are employed in at

business, government and industry. The Wachovia employees are, left to right, Jean Stroman, Rick Armstrong and Bo Brookby.

 

 

 

\

 

\\\\§\‘\.

130 S. Main St.

   

Cannndale - - Dirt 1:
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

- \

- Gian:

        
 

CEN

  

463-7969

 

 

it Read the Phi.

   
  
 
  

 

No credit

No security deposit!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so
MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

ds?

 

COUNSELORS WANTED
for Camp Wayne, a co-ed children's camp

 

EXTRA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week - 1
Free Details: SASE to I
International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

 
  
 

—unn—:n’n—uQ-u---Q--Q-sun

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLANTATION.FL 3331

 Iwant VISA0/MASTBQCARDQ Credit

Cards. Enclosed Iind $5 which is 100% refundable if not
approved immediately.

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY STATE __ ZIP
PHONE SS.”
SIGNATURE

N01‘!-2 MastaCard is I rqlslered trademark d Mutercnrd Inter-natioml. Inc.
Visa is a registered tnderrnrk oI'VISA USA. Inc and VISA lnermttonal

S°“'°=* *”°°""°" 1oo°/. ouanauresor

r::t.“"»v‘j*' .
, ,..~, .

I I
crudrotronrcs
AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
TOSHIBA MARANTZ
KEF CWD
BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

‘ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

° BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

’ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
’ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

‘ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

' MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

in northeastern Pennsylvania.
June 22 through August 20

    
 
       

   

 
 

  

Guitar, Nature / Camping, Batik, Sculpture, Ceramics,  
Painting, Silkscreen, Photography, Self-Defense, other po-
sitions available.

On campus interviews
Thursday, February 4, 1993

A For more information, call 516-889-3217 or write
12 Allevard St., Lido Beach, NY 11561. Include your

school phone number.

41

 

0

re Ring-tum Phl, January 28, 1993

  MEANS LOW PRICES

    
   

amser

4;

    

A
REDUCED PRICE
21 ~ 25 COUNT

W

Two ODAC losses damage
W&L’s tournament chances

D FRUSTRATION, from page 10

ﬁdent heading into the final third of the
season.
y“Well, it’s tough. It’s been a rough
year. But we're more optimistic than
you might think. We have eight or nine
games with ODAC opponents, and we
think we can make the toumament.”
After the Bridgewater game, the
Generals held the eighth spot in the
ten-team ODAC. The top eight teams
make the post-season tournament.
Canﬁeld says the team has a clear
choice.

599     Y  
y  . Split Cken Breas

WTTNROIIOHICEI

I—O JZIITID

oi Chicken

  
  
 

  

In a meet made-up largely of Divi-
sion I teams, freshman Josephine
Schaeffer continued to show that her
success in cross country is easily
transfered to the indoor track season.

For the second time this year
Schaeffer set a school record in her
first race in an event.

“I hope we come back strong. You
can fold up, or say let’s keep going.
There's no magic formula,” he said.

The Generals could have used a
magic formula against Hampden-
Sydney last night.

W&L entered the game percentage
points ahead of the Tigers. After the
game, they were percentage points be-
hind.

The Generals fell to their ODAC
rivals 89-67. The loss dropped W&L to
4-12, 2-9 in the ODAC.

Miggins continued to shoot well,
just not enough. He finished 3-for-4

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

in a time of 18:07. The time was also
good enough to give Schaeffer the win,
her first for’ the indoor track team.

The All-American cross country star
also help the 3,200-meter relay team to
a school-record time of 10:32.

The other three runners to set the
new record were sophomores Kim
Herring and Sue Deutch, and freshman

from the ﬂoor and 4-for-6 from the
line, foratotal of 10 points. He also had
10 rebounds, all in 25 minutes of play.

The defense still had problems giv-
ing up easy shots. The Tigers shot 56.5
percent for the game, shooting 34-of-
60 from the field.

The Generals shot 42 percent for the
game, and had some success under the
offensive boards, grabbing 13 re-
bounds.

The Generals did go without two
key players, Bryan Watkins and Cam
Dyer, who were both back in Lexing-
ton with the ﬂu.

Megan Gavin.

On the men's side, Dax Mahoney,
David Phillips, Scott Covey and Grant
Cowell ran an ODAC—best time in the
mile relay of 3:33.4.

Also, senior Harrison Shull high-
jumped 6-4 to tie the top height in the
ODAC this year.

 

y.TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
GRADE "A" SPLIT

FR ' ER LIMIT 3 PLEASE,
WITH ADDITIONAL
IIIIIIIIIIIIILB. .

+WHITE DIET PEPSI OR
POTATOES PEPSI COLA

PEPSI  
A

Schaeffer ran the 5 ,.000-meter race

  

E“""L°V""E“T°"P°F”“”'” SPECIAL SKI PROGRAM ANNOUNCED
ALASKA SUMMER FOR
EMPLOYMENT ——-—

W & L STUDENTS & FACULTY

FISHERIES - Students Needed! Earn ,
$600+ per week in canneries or
54,000+ per month on ﬁshing boats.
Free Transportation! Room and Board!
Over 8,000 openings. No experience
necessary. MALE or FEMALE. For
employment program call: ,
1-206-545-4155 Ext. A5342
Student Employment Services
. Achievement Through Adventure

Students wishing to work In Aluhniun be
etynieen or older and In good physical condition.

We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special W&L Ski
Program which is being made available by the Winterplace Ski Resort.
W&L Students and Faculty wishing to take advantage of this special ski
program must present their W&L identiﬁcation card when purchasing lift
tickets, renting ski equipment, or renting a condo.

SPECIAL PRICES ARE:

Weekdays (Monday through Friday)

Lift Tickets Rental Quipment
(skis, boots, and poles)

 

L

Make ‘Us

L H 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $14.95 $7.95
(lug 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $17.95 $7.95
3 p.m. to 10 p.m. $12.95 $5.95

Saturday. Sunday, Holidays

The Phi

 
 

 

    
  

 
 
 
 

 

Lift Tickets Rental Iguipment
.   .  “  ...needs-a,.   . _,,,,,,,,,,,_,,,,,,,,,,,,

. v - 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $27.95 $12.95
ﬁ  9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $34.95 $12.95

h 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. $18.95 $ 7.95

llITlOl'
I . W & L Special Ski Lessons
co umnist.
1 1/2 hour group lesson by
\\ , T l——__‘'‘' RR Y OR PUNCH 3 9 Winterplace Professional Ski School for only $6.95 per
(,5 9‘  . lesson - regularly $12.00!
9 2  JUICE .................... .. 46 oz. If you think you A
_.:.:‘:‘ \\ I '5‘. . (.3 ‘ . _ .
_-.-.   ,_$T 9 can  the Space, Winterplace Condominiums

'1 ' - 2 Submit a San] lg I 2 B drooms - Parlor, 2 baths, kitchen - sleeps 6 -
1      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8  p avaielablc Sunday     _ only 

3
299

HARRIS TE ETERS of your writing to per ,,,gh.,
   SHAMPOO OR CONDITIONER _ _ ,
 the Phl Offlce ln Winterplace Ski Resort is under new ownership and has vastly
J H O   P """""" " 8 ' I 3 OZ‘ foofn  of the improved its snowmakiiig capability, added new trails (now 24
 S ASSORTED O 9 University Center. rSi:rv:il:i:ts (now 4 chair lifts + 2 surface lifts) and a new dining an
You Could Win One Of These Fabulous FLAVOR 1 For more I
P"ze5° see Detmls And Reglsler At The P """" " 6 - 7 OZ‘ Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley, West

Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter. ,

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
Accommodations And Game Tickets.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
g N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations.

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

0 One Pair Oi Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away

information Call Virginia, 1 1/2 miles from the Ghent exit on Interstate 77.

\ Fran, Cathy or
Rick at 463-_858l

0

GOLD COLLECTION
CRO WLE Y
  Anticipated conditions on Saturday, January 23rd are - 17 traiLs open

9 y with all chairlifts operating. - 
p Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee 

If you need additional info, or need to confirm lodging reservations,
call 304/ 787-3221. For latest snow conditions, call snow phone 1-800-
25 8-3 127.

.94-e_.( -'-.,-"-..:-;.‘_-7...»  “:   -' ‘ ' ‘
:v“(::_.‘L“1:...‘<_._V_‘(_‘.,a . . » .« . . .- I . . . - r e . Ll . . ,~.   ,- - -« -.

r « "iv 14‘; "-7.3

 

' In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.  
"‘."<' °°'°"~" “"4 R°9‘$'°' A’ The "-°'<° GALLON - Counselors for Summer Scholars July 4 - July 30, 1993 5
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter. T

vALuA3|_E coupoN g vA|_uA3|_E coupoN Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school senoirs.
o I BUY 0 N E GET ONE BUY ONE GET ONE I rft(S)11nS6lOI‘ serves as a resident advisor in Graham-Lees dormitory for 10

I When You Purchase One 16 Oz. Pkg. Of
Plain, Cinn/Raisin Or Onion
. | .

BROOKLYN BAG L

FREE I

I when you p,,,c,,,.,se o,,e11_25 - 15 Oz_ - Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 7 - August 3
Box Of Honey Nut, Multi Grain, Apple .
I Cinnamon Or Reg.

CHEERIO$_

.”.....nv-
. .,

The Office of Special Programs employs 4 W&L students to serve as
hosts/liostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni

Ch_ee_n9='°”

 
 

 
   
 

H ‘5°3° 5. - .n'o'!iu ..'A '. I I 00901000 .A_w,~,~....  Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
i>A’e°c‘3“J2»'$"n"»9«3’P5'3I535i57idX°°d6"""' ”U?4‘° i5‘$ZCc1“u9-i1”?3?P5'?3h5-3eR’3v?GjfgdX‘§ibl5i3"  ,,:.- management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.
r January 27, 0- _"

Minimum Purchase. Oller Good January 27,
I tltru February 2,l993
.l

31 00
I-yc.-0U‘Po6_g4¢vALUE Hattlsmetet

Q

5

0

CI)
11111

FROZEN Minimum Purchase. Olle
I U thru February 2,1993

COUPONW/ALUE
I 2.7

Application deadline, February 27, 1993.

LE sf-o_,

’ For further information, please Contact Office of the Special Programs,
Howard House, 463-8723.

' Prices Effective Throu h February 2, I992.

1 Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday January 27 Throu h uesday, February 2 I992. In Lexinton Stores
I Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. Noneg5old To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

  

    
  
  
   
    
      
    
    
        
    
   
    
     
      
  
    
     
     
  
   
      
     
    
   
    
     
     
    
    
    
    
     
    
   
  

Last Week:

Bball- H-SC 89,W&L 67 (4-12)
MSwim- 2nd of 4 at W&L Invit. (6-0)
WSwim- 4th of 4 at W&L Invit. (6-1)
Wrestle- 5th of 8 at W&L Invit. (2-3)

This Week:

Bball— at Guilford 1/30;

Va. Wesleyan 2/3 7:30

Swim- at F&M 1/30 (M&W); .
at Hollins 2/4 (W)

Wrestle- At Gallaudet Invit. 1/30

Ellie iﬁittg-tum iﬂlii

SPORTS  

Competition intensifies
as swimmers better times

enough for one of the four second- Hopkins’ 506.
place ﬁnishes by individual Gener- Freshman Rebekah Prince con-
als. ‘ tinued her sensational first season,

The Washington and Lee men’s Fellow freshman Frank Braden and sent a clear message to all com-
and women's swimming teams wel- placed second in the 200-freestyle petitors that she will be one to watch
comed four teamsto the CyTwombly with a good time of 1:49.69. Holicky for come tournament time.

Pool last weekend forthe W&L Invi- added a second in the 200-breast- Prince came from behind to take
tational. stroke at 1:04.37, followed by the 200—backstroke in 2:17.51, edg-

The men earned their second- Pearson with a second in his stron- ing out the next two swimmers by
place showing by finishing in the top gest event, the 50-freestyle. less than one second. Prince set the
three 14 times. The Generals ended Sophomores Roland Chase and school record in this event last week
the meetwith 598 points, while Johns John Rowe each contributed a third- against Georgetown .

Hopkins swam away with 755; place ﬁnish, Rowe swimming a sea- Prince added second-place fin-
Emory was third with 517 and son-best in the 400-Individual med- ishes in the 400-IM and "100-back-
Swanhmore dropped anchor early ley. He touched at 4:26.27. stroke.

on finishing with just 324 points. It was W&L’s depth that proved ‘ Sophomore Brandi Henderson’s

The men posted ﬁve season-best to be the difference between second top finish came in the 500-freestyle.
times, three of them in relay races. and third. The Generals did not have She finished second.

The 400-medley relay team of a winner in any of the 18 races, but it Senior Claire Dudley had a strong
Anton Diederich, Grant Holicky, had just enough high finishes to edge meet, claiming third place in the
Tom Donnelly and Andrew Pearson out Emory by 81 points. 100-and 200-breaststroke.
coasted to second place in their sea- It was the opposite scenario when The women also got in on the
son-best of 3:47.90. it came to the women. season-best times act with their 800-

The 200-medley relay team of The women has several strong freestyle relay team. The quartet of
Bryan Drum, David Stillman, individual perforrnances,butaroster sophomore Susan Fisher, Dudley,
Holicky and Pearson also posted a with only eight swimmers simply Henderson and Prince touched at
season-best, with atime 1:44.26, just isn’t big enough to outscore three 8:28.85 for a third-place finish.

a second-and-a-half behind the win- larger squads. W&L’s aquatics are in action
ners. The Generals could only muster again Saturday as they hop a bus for

Freshman Craig Sears put up a 296 points for a fourth—place finish. Pennsylvania. Both teams will com-
career, and season, best time of That was well behind Emory’s 657, pete against only one team this time,
2:05.39 in the 200-backstroke, good Swarthmore ’s 604 and Johns the one from Franklin & Marshall.

PAGE 10 JANUARY 28, 199

W&L can’t buy win

outside itclears up the post area. I don’t rie or win with 15 seconds lefi?
1'93")’ like 10 P13)’ With my The Generals madeow
back to the basket, this opens more 3-pointers, and they

You’re doing a 15—page term paper it up more. It looks like it’s grabbed 11 offensive re-
and it just doesn’t feel right. working.” bounds, seven more th

Try and try as you might, your cen- The game against the Bridgewaien
tral thesis just seems to get lost in the Eagles was nightmarish for The seeond-ehane
words. What do you do? Canfield when the Generals points kept W&L in the

As painful as it is, you throw out were on defense.The break— game and really gor rgern
yourfirstrough copyanddecide to start down was complete. 5  » V» to those final 15 seeond5_
over. Well, you know exactlyhow head Bridgewater shot 60.9 per- Migms speaking of ihose firia
basketball coach Verne Canfield feels. cent in the ﬁrst, and 66.7 for 15 seconds, Junior Mai

From the start of this year, his cen- the game. Newton took the ball outside the 3-
tral thesis for the team just seemed to Canfield said the Generals helped point are on rhe lefi side He was1ook_
get lost in the action. So, he decided to build the Eagles’ confidence. ing nndernearh for Miggins, bar rhe
start over. “We let themrun their offense.They Eagles had it defended,

Canfield instituted a new offense he very confidently took shots from their Newton iried to work ii io rhe r?ghi
hoped would help open the middle for spots,” he said. and could find no one. Finally fresh-
Robert Mi g gins, giving him more of an From what I’ve told you, what do man Cam Dyer got the ball on the right
opportunity to improve on his 69.7 per- think the halftime score was? Time’s baseline with his back io rhe ba5ker_
cent shooting from the ﬂoor. up. With three seconds to go Dyer put

The new offense brings four players No, it was not a blowout. It was 32- up a turnaround jarnpen when n iefr
to the outside, bringing most man-to- 31. The Generals offense kept them in his handitlooked good. But the baﬁhit
man defenses, and parts of zones, out to it by shooting 50 percent from the ﬁeld. the front lip of the rim and bounced off .
cover the shooters. The inside then is 13-for-26.81161 3-for-5 from Outside the The Eagles got the rebound and the
theoreticallyinhabited by onlytwo play- 3-point arc. game buzzer sounded,
ers, Miggins and his defender. “The problem with Bridgewater,” “we were looking ro go inside re

The new scheme was introduced to Miggins said, “we gave them wide- Robert [Miggins],”Canfieldsaid.“But
the home crowd last Saturday against open shots. They were working their we just didn’t do it,"

Bridgewater. The Generals lost there, screens real well, and we didn’t play The loss, the Generals third by 31110
too. But it wasn’tthe offense that broke good team defense. points or less, dropped their season.
down, it was the defense. “We need to talk more and call out record to 4-11, 2-8 in rhe old Dornin-

Miggins seems to think the new screens. We’re going to work a lot on ion Athletic Conference, I
game-plan is working. it,” he Said. Still, Miggins says the team is con-

“It’s something we’ve been work- So why was the final score only 62-
mg on,” Miggins said. “With the four 60, with the Generals having a shot to D 399 FRUSTRAHON. Page 9

O

Invitational meet demonstrates
W&L wrestling team’s capabilities

9

By SEAN O’RoURi<£
Phi Sports Editor

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

    

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi’ Staff Writer

Last weekend’s W&L Ir1vita-
tional showed wrestling coach
Gary Franke what his team is
capable of when they are at full
strength. The Generals took fifth
place in the tournament, and
placed in four of the ten possible
weight classes. The fourth-place
finish was the team’s best at the
tournament since 1989-90.

Longwood took the team title
for the second straight year, and
La Salle’s Chris Shalbert, the
126-pound champion, was the
toumament’s Outstanding Wres-
tler.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and
Adam Williams, and freshman

Owen Smith all advanced to the
finals in the 134, 142, and 158-
pound weight classes. None of
them were able to topple their
opponents, and each had to settle
for second. Freshman Rob Sands
took third at 126-pounds.

The tournament format al-
lowed Franke to give non-start-
ing wrestlers a chance to see ac-
tion. Freshman Rob DeClerk,
sophomore Kevin Batteh, and Bo
King all participated in a non-
scoring capacity forW&L, wres-
tling at weight classes for which
other teams had no competitor.

With Sands, Shirley, Wil-
liarns, and Smith all placing in
the middle weight classes, the
Generals still lack the depth
throughout their line-up which is

necessary to be able to compete

. with the stronger programs on

their schedule.

Coach Franke addressed the

Generals’ need for a deeper line-
up.
“We placed four kids out of
ten spots, if you’re going to win
that tournament [W&L Invita-
tional], you need seven or eight
places.”

Despite the apparent lack of
balance, sophomore Lea
Abercrombie finished fifth at
167-pounds, and freshman new-
comer Colin Looney continued
to show his worth to the team, as
he finished fifth as well in the
190-pound weight class.

Franke looks to find the best
combination to shore up the holes

at 177-pounds and heavyweight.

The Generals look to find
some answers this weekend in at
a tournament hosted by Gallaudet
of Washington, D.C. Gallaudet
recently defeated a Newport

News Apprentice team who '

hounded the Generals on Dec. 9,
52-6.

Franke expects his team to be
competitive with Gallaudet. The
Generals were going through a
rough stretch of their season
when they took on Newport. The
team was without Looney or Matt
McCollum, and they were be-
sieged by a rash of injuries.

York and Rutgers-Newark
will also compete at the touma-
ment. York enters as the favorite
to win the whole tournament.

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum.Ph/'

Freshman Rob Sands (top) earns points aftera takedown during a match against a VMI
Keydet. Sands has turned in an outstanding rookie season by winning 1 2 of his 18 '
matches at 126-pou nds. Sands earned a victory In a consolation final during the W&L
Invitational. He is one of only three Generals to have an above .500 record this season.
He has proven that his early season success was no ﬂuke.

O

-./72razm7€zo$o 

We’ll make you look good!

Come to us for all of your design needs.

   

Alone Mill Apts.

Call today for an appointment to
discuss your Fancy Dress gown.
Professional seamstress with
years of experience.

Betty Wilson
463-4431

Counselors for residential summer program at
UVA for gifted students. June 20 toA . 7.
State of ' ia a lication form req. giease
refer to Job L Ql6AB when applying.
A cations must be received by 5 pm. on

rdi 1. A ly to: Univ. of Virginia,
of Human esouroes, 914 Emmet St.,
Box 9(X)7, Charlottesville, VA 22906. For

more information all (804) 924-31 82.EEO/A

   
       
     
     
   
   
       
       
     
     
       
       
     

Dance Class for FD

7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge on Feb. 3rd.
(Frank Rupus - Helping stundents get ready for FD For over 10 years!)

$5.00 per person, Pay 1 hour, stay 2! '—

Ads, ﬂyers, logos, résumés, faxes, and quick copies.

3 PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX #: 463 -6918 Q
125 w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM 1111; POST OFFICE

 

Five miles from Lexington on
Maury River. Rt. 622 off Rt. 39.
Three one bedroom a ts. Decks overlook river.
$260 per month, 260 security deposit.
Call 377-2355 day, 377-2977 night.

Student Housing For Rent
Houses within city limits:
107 _McLaughlin - $800 for four students
Houses in the county:

1 0
Rt. 39 - 1 mile off Rt. 11 - $800 for four students
Mt. Vista - 3 miles west on Rt. 60 - $900 for ﬁve students , HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS
Turkey Hill - Rt. 602 off Rt. 631 - 4 miles from town J€W61fy & Watch r6Pa1I‘S, Eng1”aV1I1g
$600 per month for three students or Apartment fOI‘ Rent STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT
$800 per month for four students _
Duplex apamnents; 605 Allen St A & B Catering to W&L Students - Two Bedroom apartment 11 w_ Nelson Street Robby Jonegi

for rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk
from the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom. .
$300 per month for the unit.
- Great Location
- Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet

_ _ Valley 7/aw?/‘ date
- Landlord pays for water, including hot water -

- Available begining February 15, 1993 9
If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown, at 463-301 Hardware Paint and Related Items
1

2 Bedrooms $325.00 each apartment (703) 4533022

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

1-800-966-4263

Call free for group rates & info

E. Nelson St., Lexington

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.

 

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186»

VARNER & POLE

115 S. Main St., Lexington

For your extra pieces of furniture

Fumlture Dealers

463-2742 ’

ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR

The W&L Admissions Oﬁice is now accepting applications

for an anticipated Admissions Counselor position. All interested

graduating senior should submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Monday, March 1, 1993 to:

1 Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions
Office of Admissions 3

 

 

 
     
    
  

     
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  

‘ THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
wAsHlNcro.~.s & use UNIVERSVTY
IEXENC-.'il’i.3;‘l, wt. 2-3450 '

   

RING-TUM PHI, STICKERI BUM!
Take A Look At The History, People and Processes Behind W&L’s Student Newspaper

U112 ‘llttng-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 17
"I

    
   
  
    
   
      
  
  
  
  
       
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
    

9

I

1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Mallory yrs, Th Ring-tm ' i

Aiithor Francis Fukuyama tells an audience Jan.28 thatthetriumph of democracy means
that history has achieved its purpose.

Triumph of capitalism

means ‘end of history’

By JEANNE BRIGGS

Phi Staff Writer

said his conclusion can also be reached by analyz-

ing social struggles in history.

-0

Marx had the right equation, but got the answer
wrong, author Francis Fukuyama told a Lee Chapel

audience Thursday.

Fukuyam a, who wrote The End of History and
the Last Man  \i‘Iith,l._he‘ fallaoflcommunist
d authoritarian regimes, history has fulﬁlled its
p rpose: the recognition of liberal democracy as

the most effective form of government.
Fukuyama said his book is “a Marxist interpre-
tation of history that leads to capitalism instead of
socialism.” He said the book is often misperceived
as an argument that history as we know it is over.
’ The former State Department deputy director

Society

I advises
pre-law

By J .D. Lowmr

_. Phi Law School Writer

Undergraduates can now learn
everything they ever wanted to
know about law school, but were
afraid to ask.

Phi Alpha Delta, a law ser-
vise fraternity, has created the

' Pre-Law Society to pair under-

graduates who are interested in
law school with law students.

Although the specifics of the
program have not been decided,
PAD plans to host informal gath-
ergngs for Pre-Law Society mem-
bers so undergraduates can meet
law students and ask questions
about law school life and the law
school admissions process.

'I'hird-year law student Bobby
Lilly, one of the project's coordi-
nators, said the need for such a
p?ogram was evident.

“Every year both law students
and undergrads who are running

I for Big Four positions campaign

on improving relations between
the Law School and the under-
graduate campus,” Lilly said.

0 PAD encourages the estab-
lishment of undergraduate chap-
ters, so, in keeping with that phi-
losophy,LillyaskedProfessorof
Politics Lewis John about the
feasibility of a mentor program.

“Students had expressed an
iiterest in a program like this,
and that coincided with [Lilly’s]
call,” John said. .

At a Pre-Law Society meet-
ing Jan. 21, 10 undergraduate
students were paired with men-
tors from the Law School.

. While some of the under-
graduates said they definitely

i plan to go to law school, others

were interested in joining thepro-
gram to find out whether or not
law school is right for them.
“I’minterested inpolitics, and
aybe interested in law school,

. and I think this is a good way to

get to see what it's all about,”
freshman Melissa Byrd said.

He said history demonstrates “a national struggle

of recognition,” which he defined as the “worth of

one personto another.
“Human beings alone desire recognition and do

not feel human unless they are recognized,”

amples.

Fukuyama said. “And the fundamental and impor-
tant thing that democrae-ysgives us is recognition of
our self-worth.”

Fukuyama cited controversy over the treatment
of Anita Hill, treatment of the disabled, and the
struggle over gays in the military as modern ex-

l

“Peace and prosperity are not sufficient,”
Fukuyama said. “Unsolvable issues still exist. We
cannot ﬁnally close the story of human history.”

    

“Photo by Amy French, The Fling-tum Phi

Living history

James Farmer, last surviving member of the legend-
ary “Big Four” leaders of the civil rights movement,
tells a capacity crowd Wednesday about his deal-
ings with Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.

Service fraternity
seeks members

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

Rush week for Alpha Phi
Omega, Washington and Lee’s
coed service fraternity, isn’t the
stress-filled frenzy normally as-
sociated with fraternity Rush.

“[APO] Rush is really infor-
mal,”RushChairman MattAppel
said. “We just declare periods
when we try to entice people to
join.”

Tonight, after a week of Rush
activities which included a pizza
party, a movie night and a group
effort to help refurbish a local
house, APO will invite partici-
pants to join the fraternity in a
pledging ceremony.

APO pledge educator Eliza-
beth Dettmar said nine students
pledged APO after last term’s
Rush period. Dettrnar said she
hopes five to eight students
pledge tonight.

“We’ve had a bunch of people
show up to our activities,”
Dettrnar said. “So we’ll see what
we get.”

Dettrnar said the chapter won
a national award last year for
their 200 percent increase in mem-
bership. She said two consecu-
tive seven-person pledge classes
and dedicated members helped
APO‘win the award.

Appel said some of the 30
APO members belong to social
fraternities or sororities.

APO President Jim Prather
said the service fraternity wel-
comes anyone who’s willing to
help serve Lexington.

“We’re looking for people
who care about others and who
care about the community,”
Prather said.

Appel said past APO activi-
ties included working with Spe-
cial Olympics and volunteering
with bexington’s Projectsafc and
Sound to rebuild old houses.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 4, 1993

EC rejects proposal
for partisan funding

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee barely rejected
aproposal Monday allowing it to fund groups
with partisan positions.

Andrew Schneider, president of the W&L
chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union,
proposed that the EC adopt a policy which
would have overturned the previous policy
of not funding groups it deems “partisan.”

Law professor and ACLU advisor Allan
Ides said the current EC policy of not funding
ideologically partisan groups is one way to
stay neutral, but he said there is a better way.

“[Under the current policy,] you run the
risk of becoming a censor,” Ides said. “I
disagree with 75 percent of what the ACLU
does, butI strongly agree with some of their
positions.”

Junior EC Rep. Ashby Hackney said hav-
ing to fund many small groups may mean less
money for each group supported by the EC.

Schneider said the EC’s reasoning is
flawed.

“The EC is acting too paternalistic on this

ravine at the Law School, which has a policy
of funding all groups regardless of ideology,
and you can see this is not a problem.”

Several EC
members told
Schneider that if he
changed the name
of the chapter to
disassociate it
from the national
ACLU and pro-
posed the same
kind of activities,
he would have a
better chance of re-
ceiving money.

S c h n e i d e r
called the idea ri-
diculous.

“I think it is sort of patronizing to be quite
honest,” Schneider said. “It would be like
asking the EC to change its name to the
Honor and Funding Clu .”

Freshman EC Rep. Peter Agelasto said
the current EC funding policy is too limited.

“Because we are an institution of higher
learning we need to foster debate,” Agelasto

Schneider

    

The EC debated the issue with Schneider,
Ides and Federalist Society President Robert
Palladino for over an hour.

A motion to adopt Schneider's proposal
failed 5-7.

In other business, the EC discussed pro-
posed revisions to the Student Body Consti-
tution with Ring-tum Phi Executive Editors
Cathryn Lopiccolo and Richard Peltz.

Lopiccolo and Peltz said they proposed
the revisions because the constitution is out-
dated and in need of clarification.

The EC can either vote to put the revisions
on the ballot or any student may submit a
petition with 50 students’ signatures to put a
revision on the ballot.

To pass a revision, half of the student
body must vote in the referendum, and two-
thirds of those voting must vote to approve
the revision.

EC President Josh MacFarland said the
committee will consider the proposals again
Monday.

MacFarland also told the EC that, since a
Jan. 28 Phi article reponing that 40 students
sneaked into Lip Synch without paying, Lip
Synch Chairman Ashley Myler has received

point,” Schneider said. “Just look across the

said.

anonymous donations and apologies.

Caller tries to defraud W&L

‘-Pasraplegicltransferzetudent’seeks access to phones

By KRISTA Tnunms
Phi Contributing Writer

A man claiming tobeparaple-
gic is trying to access the W&L
phone system, possibly to make
long-distance calls at the school's
expense.

“The man is good at what he
does,” said Dianna DeHart, a sec-
retary in the Development Of-
ﬁce who accepted one of the calls.
“He is an excellent manipulator.
He is very forceful in his conver-
sations.”

A man claiming to be Tom
Fitzpatrick of the Michigan Cor-
rectional Center has called vari-
ous university offices collect and
asked to be transferred to an out-
going line.

b Director of University Ser-
vices James Johndrow said that
if the call is transferred, the caller

could use a computer to learn the
code to access Washington and
Lee’s outgoing lines and make
unlimited long-distance calls,
billable to W&L.

When the caller reached
DeHart, he told her he is aparaple-v
gic student transferring to W&L,
she said. He said he wanted to
find out if the admissions office
had received his tuition check.

To do that, the man said his
call had to be transferred to a
special operator who assists
handicapped people on the tele-
phone. That operator would then
transfer his call to the admissions
office.

During the conversation,
DeHart tried to find the caller's
name on the W&L computer sys-
tem to find out if he was really a
transferring student.

When his name did not ap-
pear, she tried to end the conver-

sation with him, but he contin-
ued to try to get her to transfer the
call.

A long-distance operator
broke into the conversation and
warned Del-Iart not to give the
caller access t‘o"the’ W&L line.

“The whole thing was very
disturbing,” DeHart said.

Alice Brown with the Michi-
gan State Department of Correc-
tions said there is no such thing
as a Michigan Correctional Cen-
ter, and her department has no
record of a prisoner named Tom
Fitzpatrick.

Johndrow said W&L cannot
transfer calls from an incoming
line to an outgoing. But the caller
thinks it can be done, so he con-
tinues to call.

“We have a great technical
service department that really
does their job tracking calls and
protecting our telephone

switches,” Johndrow said.

The caller has also attempted
to access outgoing lines at Vir-
giniaTech and at a Roanoke hos-
pital, Johndrow said. .

Johndrow said phone fraud is
a growing scam and students
should be careful with their call-
ing card numbers.

Johndrow said one trick in-
volves a caller claiming to be a
long-distance company em-
ployee.

Johndrow said the caller de-
mands a person’s calling card
number, saying his long distance
service will be disconnected if he
doesn’t read the number.

A man in Roanoke received a
$5 6,000 phone bill for one week-
end of calls that someone else
made, J ohndrow said.

“And AT&T doesn't care who
made the calls,” Johndrow said.
“They just want to be paid.”

Music classes boost GPAs

By ToM Haspos
Phi Staff Writer

Want an A? Take music.

According to a breakdown of
1991-92 grades released by the
Registrar’s Office, the music de-
partment gave A’s to 69.2 per-
cent of students taking music
classes. -

On the other end of the spec-
trum, the anthropology depart-
ment gave the fewest A’s pro-
portionally, with just 17.4 per-
cent of students getting A’s.

“I lcnow that in general, the
number of A’s [in anthropology]
has been low in comparison to
other departments,” anthropol-
ogy department chairman O.
Kendall White said.

White attributed the low num-
ber of A’s to the approximately
150 students enrolled in Anthro-
pology 101 last year. White said
the sections were taught by pro-
fessors John McDaniel and David
Novack, who he said are tough
graders.

The engineering department
doled out the greatest proportion
of failing grades, with F’s mak-
ing up 7.8 percent of all grades
awarded by the department.

If last year’s grade point aver-
ages are any indication, the aver-
age W&L student can expect to
graduate cum laude.

The average GPA was 3.017
last year, with 75 percent of
grades given being A’s and B's.

The report also said the per-
centage of failing grades fell to a
29-year low of 1.6 percent.

1 00% —
90% —

  

80% —

  

. Music

70% —

  

60% -
50% -
30% -
20% -
10% —
0% -

 

nleaale

\\\\\\\\‘\

40°/.—  

   

  

 
   

\ ' ms

‘ K

  
 
   
 

S

   

Most likely to get an A

Least likely to

get an A
(any kind) (any kind)
2 / 13.9%
0°.-
15.4%
15°/..- ' ’
10%" 7.4% 6.9% 7-8%
4.4%
5%-
0%-

Figures compiled from Report of the University Registrar 1991-92

 
  
   

Real GPA-uppers - (Best

chance of getting an A+)

Easy-D Classes - (Best
chance of getting a D)

T '""'1

 

‘PAGE2

Ellie ﬂing-mm iﬂhi

Founded September 18, 1897

EC wisely steers
clear of politics

Andrew Schneider, president and founder of the Washington
and Lee chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, deserves
commendation for his political savvy in bringing the issue of
ACLU funding before the Executive Committee yet again, this
time the week before an election.

With the smell of rising dissent in the air, the EC stuck to its guns
on the policy of staying out of the political arena by not funding
organizations which take stands on political issues, and that, too,
deserves commendation.

The W&L chapter of the ACLU is not allying itself with the
national organization on political issues, representatives said Mon-
day, but is using the national organization only for resources.

But they failed to address the problem of afﬁliation. The chapter
is nonetheless afﬁliated with the ACLU, and for student activities
dollars to be allocated to an organization whose name connotes
partisanship is to politicize the budget process.

We do not wish to enter the debate on what the standing policy
of the EC should be. They are in the difﬁcult position of having to
draw a line deﬁning which activities will be deemed “partisan,”
and the groups that are asking for clariﬁcation have valid concerns.

But the EC is on the correct course. The committee members for
the most part recognize that politicization of the committee would
be detrimental to its functioning. It would be injurious to student
government and autonomy if the annual election process were
dominated by political debate, and if the EC were torn by it. The EC
has traditionally shied away from political debate when its opin-
ions did not reﬂect a uniﬁed sentiment, and that has been wise.

The retort of the ACLU chapter representatives, and the reser-
vations expressed by some EC members about the funding policy,
is that the EC can still remain free from politicization and serve the
community better by funding all groups which express what the
committee deems to be partisan ideologies.

The ﬂaw in that logic is simply that there are not enough student
activities dollars to go around. For every proactive group which
would ask for funding, a reactive group would be entitled to equal
funding.

EC Secretary Bob Tompkins pointed out that in not funding the
ACLU, the EC is not saying it does not want the chapter to exist.
The ACLU chapter serves the community by virtue of its very
existence as an outlet of communication. But with the proliferation
of budget requests the EC would receive after announcing that
“partisan” groups have the same access to student dollars that other

groups have, not much money would remain for the ACLU.

Again, we commend Schneider for reviving the funding issue ——
any issue, in fact—- at election time. Our only warning to him is that
on a campus where students trust their government so clearly that
they allow EC doors to close unconstitutionally without even a
whimper of dissent, his efforts to hold candidates accountable for
their past records are probably in vain.

— CL, RP, GP, NM

Belated honor?

The Lip Synch organizers who reported to the EC on Jan. 25 that
students had sneaked into the event without paying, possibly even
by lying about their right to be there for free, reported to EC Monday
that they have received anonymous donations of the entry price.

The news gives us an odd mixture of disappointment and elation.
Knowingly circumventing the admission fee, whether lying about
it or not, is dishonorable conduct. The number of students involved
is alarming. Yet some people, perhaps after reading the story in the
last Phi, felt obliged to pay their way, albeit belatedly. So there is
a sense of honor there after all. -

It’s nice to know that students do think to do the honorable thing,
eventually. Now students should work on doing the honorable
thing, the ﬁrst time.

Ellie ﬂing-mm iﬁlti

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whimey Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cun'ent court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

  
 

The Rlng-tum Phl, February 4, 1 993

 

E: t

‘A:

J
. ‘k\‘illliu|:\'-- u.-I,“ ‘N V"“"“""
|‘ l ll

J.

Government conformity victimizes VMI  

LEXINGTON — The last time the
federal government tangled with Vir-
ginia Military Institute, the
govemment’s forces got cuffed around
at the battle of New Market by a

duced a record “replete” with convinc-
ing testimony that single-sex under-
graduate education can be beneﬁcial to
both males and females. It also held
that VMI’s “adversative” educational

Confeder- s y s t e m
ate contin- would be
§,‘,’;‘,§,,‘°§‘,§7' GEoRGE WILL “f“‘;",‘,"
men a
VM’ °:"d°‘5 Washington Post Writers Group a“°.""‘."y'
ages 15 to anditsdrs-
17. This tinctive
event is cel- e n d s

ebrated in a large painting in VMI’s
chapel, Jackson Memorial Hall, which
is named after Stonewall, who for 10
years taught “natural philosophy,”
meaning science, and artillery here.

Today the federal government,
which always has been a slow learner,
is engaged in an utterly optional ﬁght
with VMI. This time, unlike last time,
it would serve the national interest for
the national government to lose.

Founded in 1839, VMI is one of this
state’s 15 publicly supported colleges
and universities. Although its most
distinguished graduate was a military
man — George Marshall — most
graduates pursue civilian careers. How-
ever, all its graduates are men and this,
given the Zeitgeist, is the rub.

VMI’s enrollment is just 1,300 of .

the 160,000 students_ —-— a majority of
them female —‘— in Virginia's state-
supported, four-year institutions. But
in March 1990, the inscrutable Bush
adminisuation’s Justice Department,
egged on by the American Civil Liber-
ties Union and kindred spirits, ﬁled a
suit charging that VMI’s single-sex
admission policy violates the consum-
tional guarantee (in the 14th Amend-
ment) 0 “equal protection of the laws.”

The district court had to decide
whether VMI’spolicy is “substantially
related” to the achievement of “irnpor-
tant government objectives.” The court
ruled that the six-day trial had pro-

“thwarted” if VMI were forced to ac-
commodate the needs and interests of
women.

The “adversative” system strives to
mold and motivate students by stress-
ing (in the court's words) “physical
rigor, mental stress, absolute equality
of treatment, absence of privacy, minute
regulation of behavior, and indoctrina-
tion in desirable values.” First-year
cadets are called “rats” because the rat
is considered “the lowest animal on
earth.” This system is, the court found,
well -tailored to the developmental char-
acteristics of some adolescent males.

The court also noted the incoher-
ence of the attack on VMI: Giving
women access to this unique system
would necessarily alter the system fun-
damentally. Nevertheless, the Justice
Department, inﬂamed by the court’s
conclusion that VMI ’s system is “peda-
gogically justified,” appealed the ml-
ing to a higher court. There VMI won
what might be a minous victory.

A three-judge panel unanimously
agreed that VMI’s system is appropri-
ate and successful and justiﬁes its ad-
missions policy. But the judges, while
adhering to the principle that the 14th
Amendment does not per se proscribe
single-sex education, also held that
VMI’s all-male policy is an unconsti-
tutional denial of “equal protection”
unless and until Virginia either stops
supporting VMI or provides an identi-

cal program for females.

The court did not explain how to
square this circle: What is, for females,
identical to a system suited only for
adolescent males? (Bythe way, women
so inclined can participate in the corps
of cadets at Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute.)

Now VMI is asking the Supreme
Court to review this nrling which, if
allowed to stand, will sow uncertainty,
and hence litigation, about such ques-
tions as:

Can apublic school operate a single-
sex sports tearn—

say, a football bullying, VMI
team—without . . shouldexpectno
providinganiden- Notlce that 1“ the name better from the
goat; optréortunity of expanding “diver- nev{,§§§yvd- -
or eo ersex o - - s corps
participate in the s1ty”and enlarging free" of cadets
same sport? dom, governmental co- marched am
Can Virginia ' ° ' President
continue to give erclonlsbelngemployed Trurnan’s 1949
substantial state '50 make SCh00lS m0re inauguralparade
assistance,through ' andinallbuttwo
a 1 e, y snu mg out
tuition subsidypro- VMI, f .t of thenext 10. (It
grams, to ﬁve pri- S noncon orml 3'' was invited both
vate women’s col- Although the Bush ad- of those tirms,
leges as long as ° - t - - ~_ but one parade
there are notcom— mlnlstratlon partlcl fellduringexarn

parable and com-

parably assisted ~

men’s colleges? ‘
Can govern-

ment provide fa- crowd,

pated in this bullying,
VMI should’ expect no
better from‘ the new

number of single-sex educational 3p-
portunities. But much recent research

suggests that single-sex education can .
be helpful for some young people in 1

some settings (such as inner city ado-
leseent males). Fear of litigation will
inhibit potentially useful experimenta-

tion. '0
Notice that in the name of expand-
ing “diversity” and enlarging freedom,
governmental coercion is being em-
ployed to make schools more alike, by
snufﬁng outVMI’snonconforrnity. Al-
though the Bush administration par-
ticipated in Qlis

week, and the

have included
the entire corps
so VMI (be-

cilities for one sex
(for example, for
battered wives) merely because the
policy is based on actual differences
between the needs of the sexes?

Are state-mn “boot camp” penal
programs for young men impermis-
sible unless there are identical pro-
grams for young women?

Court-created confusion is particu-
larlyunfortunateregardingpermissible
educational policies. A 30-year nrsh to
coeducation has radically reduced the

clined.) VMI
was not invited
to participate in President Clinton’s
parade, and it is permissible to suspect
that the reason was VMI’s deviation
from political correctness.

When Clinton’s parade had passed,
his administration buckled down to the
pressing business of opening the mili-
tary to gays and lesbians. The issue, his
administration says, is tolerance of di-
versity.

other would not V

© 1 993, The Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton scores low on keeping pledges ’

WASHINGTON —Bill Clinton said some won-
derful things in his campaign for President. Not

small things. Big things.

It’s a reporter’s job to
remind him of those things
— whether he and his sup-
porters like it or not.

CHRISTOPHER MATTHEWS
Tribune Media Services

Clinton promised to be
the kind of President who

battles for people “who work hard and play by the
mles.” He promised to “stop the revolving door”
that allows big-shot lawyer-lobbyists to make con-
tacts inside government and politics, then exploit
Most of all, he
promised “Change!” How many times did we hear
that glorious word booming from the steps of the

those contacts on the outside.

U.S. Capitol Wednesday?

As I said, these are not small things. They are the
reason most voters supported Bill Clinton, why so
many of us you read on newspaper opinion pages
were impressed with him. Had Clinton run as a
“fixer,” some cynical guy who knew from experi-
ence how to grease the skids in Washington, we
wouldnot have given him the nation ’s highest office

this week.

Had he campaigned as a defender of the insiders
and lobbyists, we would have canned him before he
hit New Hampshire. Had he posed as an apostle of

the status quo, had he made “continuity” his slogan
instead of “change,” we would have laughed him off

judged by it. “Playing by the rules.” “Stopping the
revolving door.” “Change!” Those are worthy and
vital standards for this country at this time. More
important, they are Bill Clinton’s standards. Not
those of his critics. Not those divined by the media.

When Clinton talked in his long campaign about
people “who play by the mics,” we all knew who he
was talking about: the people who get to work each
day, come home to their families, struggle to pay the
bills —— including the taxes Uncle Sam takes out of
their checks each week. We’re talking out the men
and women who feel, sometimes, like chumps for
being honest when the big shots, the inside traders,
the sleazy lawyers, the welfare cheats, the deadbeat
dads chuckle at them for being so honest.

Instead of looking out for the folks who “play by
the rules,” Clinton named as his top law enforce-
ment official a wealthy corporate lawyer who ad-
mitted cheating on the immigration law and failing

the ballot.

No. Clinton won this
country’smostwonder—
ful position of trust by
insisting on a higher
standard.

And he needs to be

place.

to pay her proper taxes — in other words, not
“playing by the nrles.” ‘

Clinton also said he would “stop the revolving
door” through which political appointees gain con-
nections on one side of the door to convert into
proﬁt on the other. He said he would stop those who
fatten their resumes and Rolodexes in government,
then cash in later. He even printed the promise in his
presidential strategy booklet.

Is it wrong, then, to wonder out loud why Clinton
named the usual claque of Washington lawyer-
lobbyists to his Cabinet and transition team? Is it
wrong to wonder if voters who believed what Clinton
promised were chumps to begin with?

Finally, that word “Change!” our new President

spoke so often in his Wednesday inaugural.

This is the greatest disappointment of his transi-
tion. If Lyndon Johnson or Richard Nixon had’
named the people Clinton has to his Cabinet, there
could have been no complaint. They were business-
as-usual politicians from whom we expected busi-
ness as usual.

Bill Clinton set a higher standard. Ifhe chooses
to forget it, he needs to be painfully reminded of it.
Because it is the standard, even more than the man, 0
that many of us found so impressive in the first

© 1993, Tribune M edia Services, Inc.

Advocate explains honor procedures .

MY VIEW
By Dan Munroe, ’93L

Several weeks ago, the Executive

, Committee opened discussions about

White Book revisions. Since then, a lot
has been said about the issue of whether
or not to change White Book proce-
dures. As a former Executive Commit-
tee representative, honor advocate, and
Conﬁdential Review Committee ad-
vocate, I thought it might be helpful to
explain this controversial process in
less formallanguage, so that you are
aware of what actually happens before,
during, and after a closed hearing. Of
course, information about all closed
hearings and investigations is highly
conﬁdential, so this article deals only
with procedure which can be found in
the White Book itself.

Although I know that we all were

required to read the White Book our

ﬁrst year or freshman year, a review
may be helpful. No doubt, the thought
of any of us being investigated by the
EC is difficult to discuss. None of us
wants to even consider any of these
actions happening to us; yet the possi-
bility exists. This is our system, and we
must make sure we are satisﬁed with it.
Generally, here is what would hap-
pen if the EC took action against you:
1.‘ Information would come to the
president of the EC about a suspected
honor code violation you may have com-
mitted. This may be done with or with-
out your knowledge. It would probably
be done without your knowledge. The
information may come from a fellow
student, faculty member, or person out-
side of the community. ’
2. The EC president will then ap-
point two EC members and a member
from the student body to investigate the
case. They will speak with all witnesses
who have information concerning your

alleged honor code offense. If they
discover another allegation, they will
add it to the original charge. The in-
vestigator will take notes and collect
all data (which includes tests, papers,
etc.) relevant to your charge. The
three members of the investigation
team will then vote as to whether you
committed an honor code violation.
The non-EC member is then excused
from the procedure. The two EC
members of the investigation team
then report their version of the events
to the EC. If the EC members believe
that there is sufﬁcient evidence for a,
closed hearing, you will be charged
with having possibly committed an
honor code violation. At this point,
the EC has almost certainly not spo-
ken with you for the purpose of hear-
ing your version of events. In fact,
they won’t hear your version of the
events until a formal closed hearing
takes place.

i

3. The honor advocate now becomes
involved with your case. Before you
are fonnally charged, the EC president
and vice president tell the advocate
about the evidence against you before
you come into the EC room to et
charged. It is completely the §C

president's discretion to give you any I

information he believes will allow you
to understand why an EC witness is
being called to testify against you. The
EC gives you copies of tests, papers,

and other formal evidence against you. .

However, at this point neither you nbr

your advocate is allowed to examine _
the EC investigator's notes from the

investigation or to speak with the wit-
ness who will testify against you in the

\

closed hearing. Furthermore, regard- ‘

less of your stress level, which I guar-
antee you will be high, you may ‘nOt
talk to anyone within the Washington

C] see HONOR, page 3

l

9

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1993

‘Spos unveils Skipper the

§Pos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

An ode to a Fax Machine

0h fax machine, 0h fax machine,

You are the coolest oﬂice tool

Spewing forth your messages

. From druggies, freaks and fools.

You are the newest fad

in telecommunication.

Now I get to hear from fans

from halfway ’cross the nation.

F axes from old wealthy alums

named "Buzz” and "Skip” and

."Harry"

and everyone’ 5 favorite Kappa Sig,

The tripper they call Larry.

The time has come once again to
update the student body on everyone’s
favorite cult personality, you guessed
it, Larry Skipper. M

. Spos hates to persist in beating a
dead horse, but the forces within the
circles of the alumni have spoken, and
they have determined that the Larry
Skipper phenomenon deserves further

study. .Here’s the latest fax that has

come into Spos Central Command:
“To: Mr. Tom Hespos
“Subject: Larry!
“Comments: We’re just crazy about
l
“As president of the L.P. Skipper
Fan Club, I'd like to thank you for your
update on W&L’s hottest cult person-
\ ality. I've included some personal facts
about Larry that might be of interest to
many of your readers.

“Larry’s favorite alcoholic bever-
age: Fighting Cock Whiskey

“Larry’s favorite Lexington eatery:
Stop-In (N. Main location)

“Larry's favorite hobby: Smoking
(Two and a half packs aday), Sleeping.

“Most embarrassing moment while
at W&L: Appearing before SCC his
freshman year for indecent exposure
and possession of a ﬁrearm.

“Presently, Larry is working for a
gun/amrno dealer in Raleigh, NC."

(1"heFAX then says something about
Larry's encounters with the Lexington
Police, but it is incomprehensible.)

Before Spos dives headlong into
this silliness, he should express that he
feels a certain sense of journalistic re-
sponsibility toward his readership and
should remind his readers that one
should never mix alcohol and barbitu-
ates. Doing so might lead to corre-
sponding with one’s college newspa-
per on seemingly inconsequential top-
ics, as I’m sure is the case here.

I’m sure folks would like to see
Spos get to the bottom of this business.
After all, with all of the possible topics
Spos considered for his column this
week, (i.e., Bosnia, Somalia, Bob
Packwood’s deviant sexual practices,
etc.) the Larry Skipper phenomenon is

' definitely the more deserving of hav-

ing a quarter-page dedicated to it.

First, Spos assigned Rick Peltz, in- .

vestigative journalist extraordinaire, to
‘track down the folks that sent the fax.
While Spos went to get his trademark
coffee with milk and two sugars, Rick
worked hard to track down the perpe-

trators of the Larry Skipper conspiracy.
Rick managed to find out that the fax
was sent by a company in New Jersey
called Tektronix. When Rick called
Tektronix to find out who sent the fax,
the person on the other end claimed to
not know of any connection between
Mr. Skipper and Tektronix. Likely
story. I will assume that the Trotskyite
conspirators fled the
country in hopes of avoid-
ing Spos’ wrath. And
what the hell kind of a
name for a corporation is
Tektronix, anyway?
They’re probably one of
those hoplessly obsolete
software companies that
still make cartridges for
the Atari 2600.

With the Tektronix
lead thus coming to apiti-
ful dead end, Spos de-
cided to go straight to the
source, which is what he
probably should have done in the first
place.

With the assistance of the staff of
the Alurrmi Office, to whom Spos is
eternally grateful, we were able to track
down Mr. Skipper, who evidently goes
by his middle name, Pait. This was the
source of quite a bit of confusion. Mr.
Skipper claims to have no knowledge
of his being a celebrated cult personal-
ity, nor does he fully understand why
his name appears on bathroom stalls
across campus.

Larry/Pait offered an explanation
as to why he is referred to as “Skipper

Road Tripper

    

Sklpper 1 989

the Road Tripper”:

“I used to go down to Hollins a lot
when I was at W&L,” he explains.“I
dated a lot of girls down there.”

When Spos mentioned the mysteri-
ous Tektronix FAX, Skipper laughed
and suggested that the fan club was
nothing more than a vicious hoax per-
petrated by his freshman year room-
mate Tom Grow (’92).
And we thought this was
a worldwide conspiracy
designed to give W&L
students a case of the
willies.

For the record, Mr.
Skipper would like the
student body to know
that he can ’t stand Fight-
ing Cock whiskey and
Stop—In food.

He is not presently,
nor has he ever worked

lei gh. He also claims
that the SCC trial never happened, but
Spos isn’t so sure. What Spos is sure of
is that if he ever has to deal with this
completely inane topic again, he will
surely go on a domestic rampage with
a 20-pound sledgehammer.

Spos would like to thank Mr. Skip-
per for calling him before his deadline
expired. He would also like to thank
Rick Peltz for his brilliant, if inconse-
quential investigative work.

Just remember, when the forces of
evil are lurking about in conspiratorial
league with one another, Spos will be
there to keep the public informed.

Inside view of trial process personalizes Honor System

for a gun dealer in Ra— I

3»-Lfaotvs-straight as to,_wl;'at  _ \_
" "preparations as best you can-for yo closedii‘i' .
A 6. Your closed trial begins. The EC begins by-

;.I From HONOR, page 2

and Lee community for support.

4. Now you come into the EC room and are
formally charged by the EC president and vice presi-
dent. The advocate comes out of the president's
office and meets you for the first time. You and the
advocate have as little as 48 hours to prepare your

Dside of the story. You realize that within hours you
may be found guilty of an honor code violation and
asked to leave Washington and Lee, with “With-
drawn” starnped on your transcript.

5. You and the advocate prepare your version of
the events over the next few days. Any new informa-
tion or clariﬁcations about your case come from the

IDEC president, who heard the evidence form the EC
investigator, who receives the evidence from the
witnesses. Again, neither you nor your advocate can
speak with any EC witnesses to clarify any mix-up or

?a'rid‘,rri al

Erin’ misoommunication,-3Yeu  

calling its witnesses. Because you have not spoken
with these people before, this is your first and only
discovery period. You hope nothing comes as a
surprise and pray the witnesses testifying against you
tell a consistent version of the story. You and your
advocate have no time to analyze and discuss any
‘new evidence, and no time to figure out why a
" confusion or misunderstanding might exist. When
the EC is done with their questioning, you are al-

wt

lowed to present your case.

7. You then present the EC with your side of the
story. After the presentation, you are asked questions
by the EC. When the proceeding ends, you are told
that the EC will deliberate and vote. You wait for the
verdict, aware of the fact that your entire college or
legal education at Washington and Lee rests in their
hands. V

8. The EC members now deliberate. The two EC
members who collected the evidence against you and
directed the questioning of witnesses against you are
allowed to vote as to your guilt or innocence. If as
few as two-thirds of the members feel you have
committed an honor code offense, you are found
guilty by the EC and asked to leave the university.

9. Ifthe EC finds you guilty, the EC president tells
you the verdict. Dean Howison enters the room and
tells you your options. You may either withdraw or
appeal. This decision must be made within the next

72l130l.1l'Sz:'tH0WGY:eK_, if )’0l1.:d€Cid°,= I0 %D9&.’<1.1-LhﬁI,e is. =:
another,punishmen.t~ if you are follkndi gu_iltyjin an H
open‘ hearing, the mark on.-your transcrip,L'will,-be. ,,

changed from “Withdrawn” to “Dismissed.” Not
only will you have that to worry about, but the trial
will be open to the entire student body. Lee Chapel
will be packed with your peers. A jury of your peers
will vote as to your innocence. All United States
federal and state criminal courts in the country re-
quire a unanimous jury to find you guilty. Under the
White Book provisions, if as few as 8 out of 12jurors
believe the EC, you will be dismissed.

I am proud of and have great respect for our Honor

System. We are especially fortunate with this year’s
EC. My concern is that some members may base
their conclusions on an incomplete presentation by
the accused and his or her advocate. Thus, given the
procedures which I have just discussed, a reasonable
to substantial chance exists that a member of the
community could be wrongly convicted. This is
wrong and unacceptable.

I understand that members of the student body
may well disagree with my position. If so, I hope you
support any student ninning for next year’s EC who
opposes change to the White Book as it now exists.

If you feel changes are in order, I hope you
support candidates willing to make changes to the
White Book. Either way, I hope you have learned
more about the process from this article and will take
a position on the matter. ,

You are the community which the White Book
serves. You are the students whom we as advocates
.ass.isI., .How.e.vs%rv .w§:.zisSi§t.x9ii.9ii|,x as,fa.r..as we are
allowed under the current White;_B ookprovisions. In
the ‘end, tlie_ operii_tioitf_, and ,existence_' of ,the honor
code is your decision.

Finally, I would like to thank the EC publicly for
bringing this issue back into the spotlight to be
examined by the student body. During a recent EC
meeting, the members were interested in the honor
advoates’ ideas and assured us that a memo we
prepared would be considered at their March retreat
at Skylark. I’m sure any member of the EC would be
interested in discussing your opinion on this matter.
I hope they hear from you.

‘     Sally Mann feature nauseates student

controversial art shows like this one

. To the Editor:

I am utterly appalled by the
‘centerfold of nude children in last
week’s Phi. '
What was the point? The usual
format of the Phi does not donate two
whole pages to highlight local talent,

so why bombard your audience all of
the sudden with this pornography? I

lcnow that First Amendment rights al- *

low freedom of expression of such
photos, but I would rather not partici-
pate in the exploitation of young, inno-
cent children for the photographer’s
monetary gains. I seriously doubt that

these children want the world to see
them naked, nor does it give me any
particular pleasure —— actually it left
me feeling nauseous. Fine, maybe
some perverts out there enjoy “art” of
this style.

My suggestion to these “elite” is
that they attend one of the,numerous

that our government pours money into
as the national deficit steadily rises. I
truly believe that the Phi couldfind
higher quality material for its feature
articles.

Nikki Hodurski, ’95

Interviews and Photos
'By Darran Winslow

_ What would you do

   

Greg Smith, ’96, Albany, N.Y. —-
“I’ve got two words... road cheese.”

/

few nudie bars across the campus.”

TALKBACK

Beach, Va. — “Pants down parties.”

Women’s Forum

Women's Forum will meet Sun-
day, at 6:30 p.m. in the Women’s
Center.

Beneﬁt

A trivial pursuit tournament to
benefit the Rockbridge-Lexington
Scholarship Fund will be held Feb.
20 at 1:30 p.m. in the Maury River
Middle School Cafeteria. Just $5 to
play, and prizes include free meals
at area restaurants. Questions? Call
Pat Knick at 463-3129.

Lecture

There will be a public lecture by
three leaders of the Yakutian inde-
pendence movement entitled
“Yakutian Autonomy” tonight at
7:30 in the Commerce School room
327.

Needed

Dance choreographer for a spring
term musical production at the
Lenfest Center. Questions? Call
Prof. Martinez at 463-8802 or 463-
8805.

Men’s LAX

The men’s lacrosse team needs
managers for ﬁlming, scorebook and
away games. Ifinterested call Coach
Stagnitta at 463-8678.

Calyx

You can still sign up for Calyx
senior pictures. Schedule sheets are
located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
fice in the University Center. Se-
niors must sign up or submit their
own pictures to the Calyx office by
Feb. 10. Questions? Call Anthony
at 463-4352.

Film‘ Society I ‘

The Film Society will present

“The Double Life of Veronique” on

Friday and Saturday, at the Trouba-
dour Cinema.

LOSt

Grey XXL W&L sweatshirt, cof-
fee stains on front. Taken from

Doremus gym last Tuesday night.
Call Allen 463-2422.

Black History

In celebration of Black History
Month, Ms. Faye Wattleton, former
president of Planned Parenthood,
will speak Wednesday, Feb. 24 at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

 

. Management .will hold an informa-
 tion session on Wednesday, Feb. 10

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

Repubﬁcans

College Republicans will meet
Tuesday, at 7:30 p.m. in the Mock
Convention office. Drug abuse will
be discussed.

Admissions Job

The W&L Admissions Office is
now accepting applications for an
anticipated admissions counselor
position. All interested graduating
seniors should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday,
March] to the Admissions Office.

Alumni Job

Members of the Class of '93
who wish to be considered for
W&L’s alumni staff position in
1993-94 should apply by March 1.
Graduating seniors should submita
letter of application and resume to
James Farrar in the Alumni Office.
A personal interview for each ap-
plicant will be required.

FOC

The Freshmen Orientation Com-
mittee will meet Thursday, Feb. 11
at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women's Center. Attendance is
mandatory.

CD&P

Upcoming events in the CD&P
office: resume and cover letter
workshop Monday, Feb. 8,4-5 pm.
in the University Center room 109,
resume critique all day on Tuesday,
Feb. 9 in the CD&P office, inter-
viewing workshop on Wednesday,
Feb. 10 from 4-5 p.m. in the Uni-
versity Center room 109, and the
resume drop deadline for March
companies is 4 p.m. on Friday, Feb.
12. Also,‘ the Office of ‘Personnel

at 4 p.m. in the University Center
room 114. Personnel ‘representa-
tive Susan Holland will discuss the
best opportunities for federal em-
ployment, application procedures
andcompleting federal employment
application forms. Come with your
questions and comments.

WLUR

The WLUR weekly album fea-
ture, Jesus Jones’ “Perverse"' will
be broadcast Monday at 9 p.m.

Humor Columnist

The Phi is looking forabi-weekly
humor columnist. If you can do the
job, submit a sample to room 208 of
the University Center or call Fran at
463-8581 (office) or 464-5737
(home).

 

PatMcKenna,’96,PacificPalisades, Jane Finney, ’9S, Virginia Beach, Va. and Francie Cohen, ’95, Virginia Sampson — “I‘d like to see a few Andy Woodring, ’93, Short Hills,
Calif. — ‘‘I would definitely scatter a

more bitches at the parties.”

to improve Washington and Lee’s
social scene?

NJ. — “I really don’t know, I don’t
get out that often.”

 

 

By SEBASTIAN CROSS

Phi Contributing Writer

“If the students of Wash-
ington and Lee will in the
future remember that they
are grown men and conduct
themselves as such, I know
that VMI cadets will do the
same.”

After ﬁghts this year be-
tween students and cadets,
this statement rings of recent
vintage. But the author was

Student Body President
Howard Dobbins, writing in a March
1942 letter to The Ring-turn Phi.

Rivalry and conﬂict between the
two schools is not a new development.
Virginia Military Institute and W&L
have been atodds with each other since
the creation of VMI in 1836.

Originally it was not the students,
but the administrators of the two schools

who battled each other in Lexington.

According to Ollinger Crenshaw’s
“General Lee’s College,” following a
proposal to change the armory that
bordered Washington College into a
military institute, the college faculty
petitioned the Virginia legislature to

locate the school elsewhere in the state.

The faculty worried that the exist-
ence of the two schools in Lexington
would result in the demise of one of the
institutions.

The petition was denied, and the
state established VMI.

In VMI’s early years, W&L mili-
tary science students trained and drilled
at the institute, wearing distinctive
stripes on their uniforms to separate
them from cadets. It was then that the
nicknames “rat” and “mink” came to
be, Crenshaw said.

W&L students coined the term “rat” during
the joint drills, and the cadets responded with
the term “mink” for their antagonizers.

According to Henry Wise’s history of VMI,
the cadets used the term “mink” for W&L men
because they were “so mean and sly in their

contact with the cadets.”

A W&L story attributes the nickname to
W&L men who shrewdly stole the cadets’
girlfriends. Joint training ended in 1846.

According to an August 1986 Roanoke-
Times & World News article, the two schools
had a chance to make history during a football
game scheduled for Oct. 23, 1869.

The game was canceled because of rain, but,
had the teams played, it would have been the
first recorded American collegiate football
game, preceding Princeton and Rutgers by two
weeks.

AT-MINK RIVALRY

Friction between W&L and VMI recalls-

nearly 100 years of neighborly competition

 

The first football game in the South was
played four years later between the schools,
with W&L coming out on top, four goals to two.

According to Crenshaw’s book, the first
major incident between the schools came after
a W&L-Columbian College football game in
October 1897.

After the game, a group of W&L students
celebrated in a horse-drawn wagon, which they
drove up to the VMI parade grounds.

Cadets were drilling in formation and
blocked the path of the cart, causing the minks
to utter jeers and imitate military orders over a
megaphone.

When the cadets were dismissed, they rushed
the cart, throwing stones. The can escaped the
onslaught, but several W&L students on foot
were seriously injured.

The next afternoon friction escalated again
after a W&L student hit a cadet who ordered

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1 993

FEATURES

File photo
The presence of female students is not the only obvious difference between W&L and VMI.

him off the sidewalk in front of the barracks
gate. The cadet called his brother rats, and the
ensuing mob chased the assailant, throwing
rocks. Several students were injured, one seri-
ously.

As a result, a meeting of the W&L student
body almost ended in a free-for-all against VMI

scufﬂe broke out, prompt-
ing the letter from BC
President Dobbin.
During World War II,
the cadets were commis-
sioned to enforce the
blackout in Lexington. On
one of their patrols, they
invaded a fraternity house

voked by its members.

One hundred cadets
swarmed into the house
and attempted to drill its
members in the street.

Continued heckling
from the students escalated into a
fight until authorities calmed the situ-
ation.

The high tension surrounding the
event probably caused later incidents
of all-out cadet raids on fraternity
houses. _

Retired Lt. Col. Mike Strickler said
one such raid in the 1960s resulted in
major destruction of two fraternity
houses. The cadets marched in front
of the fraternities on their way to
church following a major social week-
end at W&L.

Students on the fraternity house

cans and snowballs until the cadets
were ordered to break ranks.

The cadets charged into the houses
to clear out the occupants, causing
serious injuries and damage. Several
keydets were charged with crimes
and had to pay for the damages.

Antagonism between the two
schools did not always involve vio-
lence. George Washington’s statue
on Washington Hall was painted in
VMI yellow and red many times
through the years, and the minks re-
taliated by decorating the statue of Stonewall
Jackson at VMI.

, , Other traditional pranks, such as toilet-pa-
pering campuses and moving the VMI can-
nons, marked the lighter side of the rivalry.

Conﬂict almost erupted when a group of
W&L students stole the cannons and put them

before President in Red Square.

William L. Wil- A group of
sonsteppedinand cadets showed
pleaded with up to reclaim

those assembled
to investigate the I
incident before

   

.,,,.;2*.r'§‘«?'v‘*-”"

their posses-
sions, and a vio-
lent encounter

takingaction. was narrowly
A small riot - " averted when
did break out af- police arrived.
ter a W&L—VMI VMI Mu-
baseball game in seum Curator
1902, at a time Keith Gibson

when there had

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

A group formed by’ twin brothers to
bridge the gap between«Virginia "Military
Institute and Washington and Lee is finally
taking shape. .

Jason Durm, a W&L junior, and his
brother Martin, a VMI cadet, began plan-
ning their group in October.

Now they have members, prospective
community service projects, afaculty advi-
sor and a name for the group—The Preston
Society. p

Jason attributed the increase inmember_-

article about the group written in The Ring‘-
tum Phi and a noticeghe placed in General
Notes. « " 3 '

The group currently has 10 members,
but Public Relations Manager Tom I-Iespos
appealed to the Interfraternity Council Tues-
day hoping to entice one or two members of
each fraternity to participate.

the armouncement will show significant
support for the project.
The group chose the name Preston in

ship, a turning point for the group, to an’

Jason said he hopes the response from"

Generals, Keydets   

recognition of a W&L alumnus who helped

. ‘form. VMI in the 1800s, Jason said.

“It's a community name and I hope
Prestons in the community won’t be of-
fended,” Jason said. “I think the name ties
us hr with the community more.”

The main goal of the group is to serve
the Lexington community. The Dunns and
other members created a list including
RARA, RARO and the city manager to
contact for possible service projects. The
group will meet Wednesday to ﬁnalize
plans for community service projects.

“We’l1 organize community service in
which both [W&L and AVMI] can come
together and meet each other,” Jason said.
“I'm.»pretty confident with all these con-
tacts people are making, a project will
come out of this.” -

Despite past conﬂicts between students
from the two schools, Jason said he has
heard ‘no negative feedback about his
group’s attempt to smooth relations be-
tween VMI and W&L.

He said most people realize the neces-
sity to work with the cadets rather than
against them.

“Some have gone as far to say it’s a good
idea,” Jason said.

stones, bayonets,
brass guns and
blasting powder.

sidelines and taunting both players and oppos-
ing fans.

A question over a long ball being fair or foul
was followed later in the game with a close call
at the plate.

The spectators swarmed around the players
and the umpire.

The fight that broke out caused the schools’
administrations to discontinue future meetings.
The game was called on account of darkness,
ending in an 8-8 tie.

There were few recorded incidents between

 
      

GO.

t-M

lfopyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.I

rn student to
chairman of the board.

Grab your snowboard and show everybody at Massanutten you
mean business. All our slopes are open to snowboard skiing, along with
our challenging half pipe. Ski Massanutten any Monday or Friday after
12:00 pm for our College Days rates, just $14 for a lift ticket with your
valid college ID. Bring this ad and you'll receive an additional $2 off the
College Days lift ticket rate. lessons and limited snowboard rentals are
available. So come on, join the fun. And prove who’s the boss.

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

r"o"Mr1cs"i=;':§§{E§r i-1'.-Ir'}r’sS}rbu?g. \7r?gin"{é Sr?"R}$u:c Escs

  

  
  
    

the rats and minks until 1942. when a notable
Cannondale - TREK — Diamond Bk i
Jansport day packs and book bags

     

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St.

Mon.-Fri. 9-5ISat. 9-12 Noon

said in the mid-

_beenla’_lon‘g,bit_ter,. 1970s, loud’
«feudbetween the I cheering from a 7

students and ca— 1 Homecoming’ '
dets. rally sent runrors

In the fray, through VMI
students used that W&L stu-

dents were plan-
ning to attack the
institute. .

The incident The VMI
strained athletic guard team was
relations until called out, and
theywereeventu- the gate to the
ally discontinued barracks was
in 1904 after an— closed.
other violent A group of
baseball game. W&L students

The 1904 ......... .. took up torches
baseball game pm, photo and advancedas
was 3 heated Lexlngton parades are not exclusive to W&L fa’ as ‘he VMI
mawh’ Wm‘ fans Homecoming and Mock Convention weekends. 33” b"'f°’““"“
wandering the ingaround with-

out incident.
» Confrontations today between W&L and
VMI are different in character from those in the
past. Fights reported in the news this year have
been more isolated incidents than general up-
risings of school-against school.

The Preston Society, a new organization
formed by students and cadets jointly, promises
landmark cooperation between the two groups.

Though a rivalry will probably always exist
between the two schools, perhaps the Preston
Society will move the competition into more
suitable arena.

453-7969

TGI IF’

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount

Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
merchandise from America ’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women ’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -

Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 — reduced to $7.99

Lexington

Downtown (Robert‘E. Lee Bldg.)

Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

after being verbally pro-

balconies pelted the cadets with beer A

O

1; by

August

‘ ;Strindbcrg

, dirucludlvy .
I

 

premieres.
tonight

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Contributing Writer

The Washington and Lee theatre de-
partment, at the request of a senior drama
major, will present August Strindberg’s
1888 one-act masterpiece, “Miss Julie.” 3

Erin Walsh asked the theatre depart-
ment to produce the play so she could play
the title role for her senior thesis.

“I’ve always been intrigued by ‘Miss
Julie’,” she said.

Walsh’s intrigue is an understatement
of the shock playwrights of the 20th cent
tury have felt in response to the controver-
sial content.

Strindberg’s goal to revolutionize the
theatre of his time was accomplished with
the creation of “Miss Julie,” one of the
first plays to address sexual, issues.

In the play, Miss Julie is fondled by her!
farnily’s servant, Jean. She teases him to I
the point that leads them to engage in sex,
said Rich Cassone, who plays Jean.

Cassone compared the controversy of
“Miss Julie” in 1888 and the early 20th
century to that of the Mapplethorpe pho-
tos in today’s society. Cassone also said.
that he feels sorry for the character of J can.

“I play it with a great deal of sympathy.

I certainly don’t respect him,” Cassone
said. “He is an oppressed minority. I can
',"unders'tan”d Je"ari"s need to rebel.”

Jean battles with his role as a man and
his role in society, all the while toying.
with Julie’s emotions. ‘

Jean dresses in elegant clothing re- I
gardless of the uncertainty in his physical
cleanliness.

“He wears his frock coat with elegance
but gives no assurance that he keeps his
body clean,” Strindberg said. “If Jean is.
the sexual aristocrat he is the social slave,
just as Julie is the sexual slave but the..
social aristocrat.”

Juliewas raised in a sexually confused
household,which created a tormented and
unstable character. Her mother, an ardent
feminist, pushed Julie into assuming char-
acteristics similar to a man’s personality
while her aristocratic father was content
raising a well-marmered lady.

“Julie is very confused,” Walsh said.
“She’s been stripped of her identity.”

Cassone said the rehearsal process has
been both physically and mentally drain-.
mg.

“Regardless of whether you like the
play or not, it’s such a great play for
actors,” he said. “It’s very philosophical.
I find it a draining play to watch.”

Walsh agrees that the play demanded
intense character introspection.

“In every rehearsal something new
comes out in our character.”

4

Valley  J

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.rn.-6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1-5 p.rn.
463-2186

CRAFT s PLUs,”rN'C.”

GAMES. HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5 ‘
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

COMING SOON . . .

SHARKS

Across from the Bone

  

The Ring-tum Phl, February 4, 1993

. Music Review

 

By REBECCA CROW
Phi Music Columnist

JESUS JONES

PERVERSE
( EMI 9)

    

’England’s Jesus Jones has returned to intema-
tional dance halls with a new look, but a familiar
exciting sound on the new ,EMI release Perverse.

Jesus Jones, who took their name from apopular
Spanish ﬁrst name and combined it with a common
British surname, are one of the few dance bands with
an.obvious rock heritage.

They couple techno-rave jams with steady, puls-

. ing rock rhythms.

Although they emerged from England’s dance
halls on the heels of bands like the Happy Mondays
and the Soup Dragons, Jesus Jones sought to remain
separate and distinct, says lead vocalist Mike
Ethvards. It worked.

Perverse is a very diverse LP which ranges from
the typical dance beats to mellow “swaying music”
to riffs with a touch of technological grunginess.

The LP’s ﬁrst single, “The Devil You Know,” is
alreadytoppingthe
charts of college
radio stations
across the nation.

While possibly
not as strong, the
song follows the
dance tradition of
the 1991 hit,
“Right Here, Right
Now.”

Also following
this tradition is the
playful “Zeroes
and Ones” which
is aimed at the computer——oriented generation that

 

. has emerged worldwide.

es, binary numbers have seeped out of computer
sc'ence and into college radio.

In contrast, “Spiral” ﬂirts with the eerie and

unidentifiable, fluctuating gracefully (believe it or

not) between typical horror——ﬂick background music 6

and bursts of acid house-inﬂuenced rock.
The result is pure, embraceable chaos.
‘Together, the songs create musical contradiction
and confusion that one somehow expects from this
radical British band.

STAR
(SIRE/REPRISE)

 

The dissolving of the Throwing Muses’
songwriting team of Tanya Donelly and Kristen
Hersh made many a music lover cringe. But Donelly
emerges triumphant from the breakup with a spec-
tacular new band, Belly.

Rarely does a band seem so unique, and at the
same time appear to combine a variety of distinctive,
yet different
sounds.

L7, the Sun-
days, Lush, and of
course,theThrow-
ing Muses.

But why make
comparisons be-
tween Belly and
these bands?

The result is
fresh, new and ex-
citing.

But Star is an
invitingly nostal-

 

gic album.

Almost surreal, the vigorously developed lyrics
provide striking images from something reminiscent
of a child’s dream sequence. '

From dead babies to decapitated baby dolls to
witches, Donelly puts a twist on what one expects to
hear.

On “Feed the Tree,” the LP’s first single, fonner
Muses bassist Fred Abong displays his prowess on

itar.
gu “Gepetto” and “Untogether” team up to describe
the relationships and friendships of children.

The former treats the kid from a bad home, while
the latter tells of children who recount outrageous
stories or make huge demands upon others.

“Angel” and “Sad Dress” are the two most
danceable tracks.

But one should not expect dance music from
Donelly, a follower of swayers like Edie Brickell,
who rely upon theircrazy lyrics andplayfully soulful
voices to carry the songs.

Star closes with “Stay,” a beautiful song about
shattered hopes and dreams, about which no one
cares.

Donelly should not be speaking of herself here,
for Belly displays the promise of great things to
come.

    

PAGE 5

FEATURES

3 new LPS get thumbs up

BELLY

THE THE

DUSK
( EPIC )

 

The first new release since 1989 The The’s LP
Dusk reflects the wear and definition of time.

While much slower than the last two efforts,
Mind Bomb (1989) and Infected (1986), Dusk
draws upon bluesy, jazzy soul that expresses pas-
sionate and sincere integrity.

Just as dusk represents in literature the beginning
of darkness, a time of reﬂection, so too do the songs
on this soul searching LP reflect a sense of introspec-
tion.

The harmonica driven first single, “Dogs of Lust,”
acts as a prediction of what to expect from the LP as
a whole.

Lead singer Matt Johnson describes their latest
album as, “10 songs for the lost, lonely and lustful.”

“Love Is Stronger Than Death” is an acoustic
ballad that emits an optimistically poetic view of
life.

Here, with the help of former Smiths guitarist
Johnny Marr, Johnson croons,“Here come the blue
skies, Here comes springtime] When the rivers run
high and the tears run dry./ When everything that
dies/ Shall rise.”

“Slow Emotion Replay” demands that people
correct themselves before criticizing the world.

“Lonely Planet” carries the theme further, say-
ing, “If you can’t change the world, change your-
self.”

The The re-.

verts to the night
club solo piano
sound on “This Is
The Night” and
“Bluer Than Mid-
night.”

While the style
differs from the
earlier songs, the
theme remains
constant: intro-
spection.

Dusk is a very
solid, unified album that well represents the talents
and visions of The The.

It should serve both to embrace the old fans and
welcome the new.

Crow is assistant rock manager at WLUR.The
station received promotional copies of these three
albums.

 

Colonnade Crossword

    
 

ACROSS ° ‘2 3
1 Attention-getting
word
5 Embroidery
thread
10 Distant
14 Portend
15 Lasso
16 Strong wind
17 Hideaway
18 Put money into
the pct
19 Peru city
20 Out of existence
22 Navy bigwig
24 interjection of
annoyance
25 Fold of cloth
26 Punish
30 Dummy
34 That girl
35 Kind of energy
37 Go away
38 God of war
40 Twangy
42 US reformer,
Jacob ©1993r ‘b M d‘ s ' I
43 ggynséed the All Rigiitslrigaeseéivtgi emces' nu
45 W‘”d°W Last week’: answers:
sections 7 Cereal grain
47 Ex-GI 8 Pilfer
48 Pitfalls 9 Cause grief
50 Pleasant 10 Shining
manner 11 County event
52 Male servant 12 — mater
54 Golfer’s need 13 Genuine
55 Like another 21 Cashews
58 Damaging 23 Postman's
62 —- Clapton burden
63 One who casts a 25 Rustic
ballot 26 Friendly talks
65 Legend 27 Wading bird
66 Carry 28 Place for
67 Draw out sports
68 Sea bird 29 Blow
69 Busy insects 31 Relinquish ,
70 Looks for 32 Climbing plants
71 Costly 33 Exams
36 Indian princess
DOWN 39 Armed forces
1 Proficient 41 Stem talks
2 Practical joke 44 Transaction 53 Eat away 59 Rider's fee
3 Amend copy 46 Prophet 55 Bristle 60 Arm bone
4 Deserves 49 Drudges 56 Press 61 Look at
5 1/4 or 1/2 51 Covered with 57 Catcher's glove suggestively
6 Cotton castoff screening 58 Mild oath 64 Calendar abbr.

Faculty Committee freezes
student reserves

50 years ago in the Phi — The student activities reserve
that was frozen for the duration of World War II totals
$6,000. The money is turned over to a special faculty
committee, which will decide when the student body is
capable of controlling the mone a ain.

Five ears ago in the Phi- he acultyvotes to take the
Inter raternity Council out of the Rush scheduling rocess
and give it to the Student Affairs Committee. In ot er IFC
news, invitations handed out at women’s colleges must now
have the name of the invited on it, as well as the name of the
fraternity member inviting her.

._

 

D

MEET THE PRESS

The Ring-tum Phi Invites You

To An Open House

At The Phi Office, University Center ,

Friday, February 5,  
ll a.m. - 4 p.m.

    Talk About The Phi With Us,
   And See How Your Newspaper Is Made.  

.-.,----.-.--,—....-.-,--.. . ..

 

 

PAGE 6

BIG THREE...

EC candidates talk about Honor System

11. What is the role of the Honor System at W&L today?
  2. What changes would you make to the White Book?

Ames Hutton,’94,
for President

1. “The Honor System is the most
important aspect of the university, and
it pervades every aspect of student life.
I feel arenewed emphasis on the Honor
System both in and out of the class-
room is important in maintaining the
system. I feel the EC is responsible for
the maintenance of the system, but
equally important is the student body's
dedication and responsibility [to the
Honor System].”

2. “I think that a more open system of exchange between the EC and the
advocates would be beneficial to both sides....There are two proposals in specific
I think [a student White Book review committee] should think about—whether
there should be a harsher penalty for appealing to an open hearing and whether
investigators should be allowed to vote in a closed hearing.”

 

Jimmy Kull, ’94,
for Vice President

1. “I don’t think the Honor System
has changed much in the three years
that I’ve been here. I see it as the main
reason students are attracted here. It is
the dominant force in academic life,
and it is inﬂuential outside of academ-
ics as well.’’

2. “There should be more commu-
nication between advocates and inves-
tigators and possibly more students
involved. Maybe investigations should
have two students and one EC member
instead of two EC members and one student. The student body in general needs
to be included in a serious look at the Honor System so they can determine what
honor means to the current student generation.”

 

Maurice Cole,
g ’94,
_ for Secretary

l.“I think the Honor
System today is a work-
ing system, but it is only
as good as the people
living under it. I think
students have become
slack,andIwould chal-
lenge students to implement the Honor System out-
side the classroom.” *

2. “I think it’s up to the student body to decide and
I would like to be the representative of people to do
that. I think it’s a shame that’felony crimes that are
punishable by jail time in the state of Virginia, such
as murder and assault, are not considered. It’s wrong
that a person could go to jail for murdering someone
or raping someone and, when they get out, could be
considered aestudent in good standing.”

 

      

seems like we punish the
fairness.”

 

the SCC does a good job in conduct matters.”

2. ‘‘I definitely think the single sanction should
not be changed. I don’t think there is gray area. When
-an honor violation is committed, there is no such
thing as a minor violation. We should think about the
notation ‘dismissed’ when someone is convicted in
an open trial and ‘withdrawn’ in a closed hearing. It

Bob Tompkins,
’90, ’94L,
for President

1. “The Honor System has and still
does apply to classes and to social life
as well. This broad coverage makes
W&L a special community. That spirit
of community is the main reason I
came back, and I hope the students
continue to respect and cherish it. I
hope next year that students will take
part in the revisionsof the WhiteBook.”

2. “At this point, I would not per-
sonally make any fundamental changes
to the Honor System. But there are several issues that should be examined by the
student body next year that were outlined well in Rector Miles’ letter to the EC.
We should look into the history that surrounds the issues, determine the relative
merits of the proposals, decide which merits are the most important and decide
how the process surrounding the White Book should take place.”

 

James Rambeau,
’91, ’94L,
for Vice President

1. “The Honor System is all-en-
compassing and promotes trust. The
EC facilitates that trust, not only at
school, but in the community at large.
The Honor System instills values that
students will cany throughout their
lives and into their professions. Stu-
dents should feel a need for the Honor
System."

2. “First, we should clearly define
what is meant by ‘executive session’ so the student body doesn't have to worry
about action being taken behind closed doors. We need to clarify what we mean
by intent—it’safuzzy area that needs aclear deﬁnition. We need to guarantee due
process. Students need to trust the Honor System and know that when someone
is brought up on an honor violation, it is not adversarial, it is fact-ﬁnding."

 

Ashby William Toles,
Hackney, ’94, ’92, ’95L,
for Secretary for Secretary

1. “I think it'spretty
clear —— neither lie,
cheat nor steal. If you
expand it beyond that,
you’re giving the EC
the potential to create a
Star Chamber. I think

1. “The role of the
Honor System is to

dent respects every
other student in the
W&L community.The
honor code is very im-
portant and [the EC’s] job is to make sure any
member of the student body who is brought up gets
an impartial hearing.”

2. “I think we need to investigate the White Book.
We need to revise it in terms of the current student
body. The controversy last spring term stirred inter-
est in the Honor System and we definitely need to
review it.”

 

appeal. It’s a question of

Interviews by Gregory Patterson, Phi News Editor

‘ make sure every stu--

 
 
       
       
 
      
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
       
     
     
     
  
  
  
  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 197'

 

 Aggarwal, 4
’94L,
for President _

1. “I think the current jurisdic-
tion of conduct violations and ha-
rass_ment is good. As chairman, I

ha held sensitivity training to try_
. * n judgesfto handle sensitive"

  

, [lnterfraterniftyi I
_dence tomake

everything except. straight-o‘ut
sexua1.harassment.'Anythi_ngelse'——
verbal harassment, racial cases—
the SCC is ‘qualiﬁed to handle.”

2. “I think it would be somewhat
the way it is now. There should be
stricter penalties for dirty msh, but
if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.”

     
 

   
  
   
  
   
       
     
       
     
         
       
       
     

    

  

A funny thing horppened_
on the way to the forum...

...-.Clnd you_didn’t hear the condi-
dotes’ speeches. But you can still

VOTE

Big 4, Monday  
Big 4 Run-offs, Thursday,

Call today for an appointment to
discuss your Fancy Dress gown.
Professional seamstress with
years of experience.

Betty Wilson
463-4431

Sure to please - “Looking Good” Gift Certificates
for those special Valentines. Mary Kay Cosmetics for
women & skin management for men.
Gentlemen and Ladies call Lorie Sadler 463-6379

4-

S

pring
CANCUN, NASSAU
from $299
Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

Break:

SPURTWEAR

 

15 VV. WASHINGTON ST
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

:7
W

         
     
     
         
           
       
         
       
     
     

W&L Art

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed "R.E. Lee”

Signatures:
RE. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher
Edward Valentine

Ma Lee
Fitz ugh Lee
M.Mi1ey

W&L Copperplate re-strike. hand-colored
W&L and R.E.Lee limited edition art
Sculptures by Ron Tunison
George and Mary Washington pieces

rhirirwtrs
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

 

L _ itkifﬁ V]
1 Dance Class f0!‘ FD Borden Commons Condo
7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge on Feb. 3rd.
(Frank Rupus - Helping stundents get ready for FD For over 10 years!) a

$5.00 per person, Pay 1 hour, stay 2!

  

W&L tudents, we welcome you to our Barber Sop for
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexinton - Below First American Bank

t

    
      

 

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

 
      

   
 
 
  
 

11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones
Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022
7/// //////////////////
/
/

 

 
 

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
 \

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

and Accessories

/ 23 N. Main St. (703) 463-5988

(703) 464-6464
L¥

  

g Lexington, VA 24450
 

  

\

 .

 

1-"D Is Right Around The Corner
Reserve Your Ad In This Year's ~
Phi 1-"D Supp

  
  

          
       
       
     
       
       
       
   

lement r
Call 463-8581_ 

 

Two Bedroom, Two bath, Living room, Dining room,
Kitchen, Utility room, Storage area, stove, refrig.,
washer/dryer, microwave, Central heat & air, wall to
wall carpeting, no garage tax.

Call 463-4634 or 615-373-2095 0

4

1
§ For Sale By Owner
i

¥¥¥¥¥-V-¥¥4V-¥-Y-¥¥-V-¥-¥¥¥

 

Student Housing For Rent
Houses within city limits:
107 McLaughlin - $800 for four students .
Houses in the county:
Rt. 39 - 1 mile off Rt. 11 - $800 for four students
Mt. Vista - 3 miles west on Rt. 60 - $900 for ﬁve students
Turkey Hill - Rt. 602 off Rt. 631 - 4 miles from town
$600 per month for three students or
$800 per month for four students 6
Duplex apartments: 605 Allen St. A & B °
2 Bedrooms $325.00 each apartment

EXCELLENT .
, EXTRA INCOME NOW! ' ,
ENVELOPE STUFFING -- ssoo - $2300 every week — 
Free Details: SASE to I
' International Inc.

1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn. New York 11230

   

 

 

  
 

I

_The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1993

  

REDUCED PRICE

SMITHFIELD

. SLICED
BACON

«.99

40 - 50 COUNT

MEDIUM
SHRIMP 

I

  

 

' the opponent shoot 70 per-

'l€HII.EAN PEACHES,
mums on
NECIARINES

Cl LBo
YOUR CHOICE
3“ '1'.

 
   

*2.’-

DIET PEPSI OR

9

PEPSI COLA

2 may
3

  

 

 

PAGE 7

enerals continue fall
in ODAC standings

‘ 5 D FADE, from page 8

give up that many easy baskets, and let

The Marlins were still basking in
the glow of handing Emory & Henry
their first ODAC loss of the season last
week. But W&L was pre-

cent. pared to derail their con-
“You’re not going to win tidence train.

when you shoot 30.6 percent If you take out the im-

and let the opponent shoot 70 portant number, the score,

percent,” head coach Verne all but one of the halftime

Canﬁeld said.“Wejustdidn’t
get back on defense and they
took full advantage.”

But then the team’s Jekyll
andHyde complex tookover,
and the second half turned
into a halfway decent one.

Canfield admits Guilford probably
couldn’t keep up their torrid pace for
40 minutes, but his team's play made
him wonder why they can’t do it more
often.

“It’s happened a lot to us this year.
We just haven’t put halves together
like we’re suppose to,” Canﬁeld said.
“I turned to my coach [assistant Bill
Raleigh] and asked him why we
couldn’t play like that all the time.”

The Generals were outscored in the
first 54-25, allowing Guilford to make
21 of 30 shots. In the second, W&L did
the outscoring, 35-27, allowing the
Quakers only 8 of 15 from the field.
Two very different halves, same result
as the last four games, a loss.

The loss dropped the Generals to 4-
13, 2-10 in the ODAC. The loss funher
diminished W&L’s chances of making
the ODAC post-season tournament. But
Cantield said the team couldn’t quit.

“We have to stay as positive as we
can because there’s still a chance. But
it’s a dilemma, you don’t get conﬁ-
dence until you win, but you don’t win
until you gain some conﬁdence. We
just have to keep working hard.”

Well the Generals must have de-
cided that the season could still be
salvaged because they came out in-
tense against the Marlins last night.

 

Carter

stats favored the Gener-
als.

They were shooting
52.6 percent while hold-
ing the Marlins to 40.6.
W&L held the rebound-
ing edge, 19-10.

The one stat that didn’t favor the
Generals was one that hurt the most.
W&L turned the ball over 16 times.
Those 16 mistakes translated into 32
shots for the Marlins, they only made
13, thus the low shooting percentage. It
also limited W&L to 19 total shots for
the half.

Again, you can’t win with numbers
like that.

‘‘It’s hard to your offense when you
can’t hang onto the ball,” Cantield said.

The Generals trailed 30-23 at the
break and Canfield said he “still had a
good feeling” about the game. But it
only got worse.

The Generals continued to shoot
well from the ﬂoor, but not from out-
side the 3-point arc. For the game, the
Generals shot 1-for-10.

W&L continued to turn the ball
over, though. They gave away 12 more
in the second and the Marlins took
advantage, putting up 33 more shots in
the final 20 minutes to ﬁnish 29-for-
65.

The ﬁnal score was 77-59 and could
have been worse.

Now the Generals are in a do-or-
don’t-make-the~tournament situation.
W&L inhabits 10th place in the ODAC.
They host 9th-place Eastern Menno-
nite College Saturday and play at 8th-

placeLynchburg nextWednesday.The
top eight teams make the post-season
tournament.

Canfield said the EMC game is a
double-edged sword. He has to decide
if it’s better to tell theplayers how vital
the game is, or just go about it as just
another game.

“It’s a two-sided question. But the
kids don’t need the extra pressure,
they’re under enough already,”
Canfield said.

Another difﬁculty will be keeping
the players’ minds on basketball.

“It’s going to be tough. I have to
wrestle againstpeople seeing how many
games are left. Ican’t give up on them.
I'll work them hard, maybe even harder,
to keep them interested because we
still have a shot.”

Really the biggest problem for the
Generals the past eight or nine games is
that they seem to totally collapse in one
aspect of the game. For example, in the
Guilford game, the Generals transition
defense took a holiday; against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, turnovers killed them.
This makes it difficult for Canfield to
try and tix the problems.

“It's not like there is one problem
we can specifically work on in prac-
tice. With the turnovers, Idon’twant to
psyche them out, so I'll tell them to
take care of the ball, not don't turn it
over.

“I can’t discourage or disappoint
them. I have to remain positive.”

With the tournament on the line, the
Generals need little more incentive to
play hard. But Canfield said it should
not be just the tournament.

“Our motivation should be that it’s
our ﬁnal home game, and the ﬁnal one
for our seniors. And I want to give the
fans something because I know they’ve
been wanting to get behind us and I
know we’ve let them down.

“We have everything to gain and
nothing to lose.”

W&L honors fall athletes

» . country).
By 3.5;“ O RSURKE Bo Hannah and Keith Rinn (men’s cross country).
~“"-  P‘ I: ‘p°"SjE "°r Leslie Hess (volleyball). : - r *
There was more thanjusta basketball game being played Evans Edwards gained recognition as a GTE Academic
at the Warner Center last night. All-American.

At halftime of the basketball game between Washington
and Lee and Virginia Wesleyan, fall athletes who earned
special honors during the 1992 season were recognized by
the W&L community.

Josephine Schaeffer had one of the most notable fall
seasons. She became the first W&L woman cross country
runner to earn All-American status.

 

   
 

   

/

(I5. 4?
.. ((311 USAir

REGISTER TO WIN IN
HARRIS TEETERS

ELY WITH THE

HORNETS

SWEEPSTAKES

You Could Win One Of These Fabulous
Prizes. See Details And Register At The
«I Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
Accommodations And Game Tickets.

a0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations.

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

' 0 One Pair Of Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away
In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Coke

-L

CRACKERS ............ ..l6 oz. 0

SELECTED 1.75 OZ. SOL/D OR

BAN
ROLL-ON ........... .. 1.5 oz.

ASSORTED

EAGLE BRAND 
CHIPS .................. .. 6 oz. 0

    ....-gs/.99  
 79 Men’s record still perfect;
'59 women drop second straight

Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

SLICED TO ORDER
LITE
BOLOGNA

99

IN THE DEI.I-
BAKERY

LB.

 

Schaeffer placed twelth at the national meet, and helped
lead the Generals to their best cross country season ever.

Leslie Hess and PJ. Waicus finished their careers at
Washington and Lee by becoming one of the two top players
in their respective sports.

Hess achieved noteriety by becoming one of W&L’s all-
time leaders in women's volleyball.

Waicus help set a new standard for goaltending for the
W&L water polo squad.

Not all the athletes who earned the recognition were at
the halftime festivities. But those that were covered almost
every fall sport.

The honorees that attended the ceremony were:

Evans Edwards, Marc Newman and Duane Van Arsdal
(football).

Greg Golub and P.J. Waicus (water polo).

Josephine Schaeffer and Amy Mears (womcn’s cross

Prices In This Ad Eliective Wednesday February 3 Through

ue ay, February‘? I993.

° I-'[_OR[DAGOLD BUY ONE PKG. or
ORANGE WOLFERMAN '5
JUICE  ENGLISH
ITIIIIIEIEIIEIIS MUFFINS
FROM OUR DELI-BAKERY AT
'2 REGULAR PRICE AND GETA
OZ. . srcouo PKG. .
0 FREE.
«» Prices Effective Throu h February 9, 1993‘

In Lexington Stores

Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Cl AQUATICS, from page 8

Both Sheets and Fisher think the
team ought to beat Hollins on Thurs-
day, and are optimistic about the
women’s chances in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

“The scoring system hurts us be-
cause we don’t have a lot of swimmers,
but I think we have a good chance,”
Sheets said.

Sheets contributed a strong second
place finish in the 100-freestyle versus
F&M.

“We have some of the best swim-
mers,” said Fisher. “I think we ought to

get most of the top spots.”

After the Hollins meet, the women
host Mary Washington College along
with the men this Saturday.

Page Remi1lard’s team, meanwhile,
has been on a hot streak all year long
and hasn't seemed to come up for air.

Senior Andrew Pearson won two
races: the 50 and 100-freestyles. He
also anchored the winning 400-freestyle
relay team.

Sophomore William Rowe was first
in the 200-breaststroke and second in
the 200-IM, which freshman Craig
Sears comfortably won in 2:04.30.

The Generals racked up several

points with a second through fourth
claim in the 200—backstroke, and also
took three of the top four spots in the
100-freestyle.

The 400-free relay of David
Stillman,Justin Dardani,RolandChase,
and Pearson touched with a time of
3: 18.53, winning by nearly three sec-
onds.

The men have a week off following
the Mary Washington meet. On Feb.
13, the Generals will head south on I-
81 to compete with Radford.

They will then prepare for the Emory
Invitational, which takes place Feb.
18-20.

     
   
       
   
       
    
    

Needed: Editors and Business Managers of
University Publications

Positions Available: Editor & Business
Manager of the Ring-tum Phi, Editor &
Business Manager of the Calyx, Editor of
the Ariel, Editor of the Journal of Science,
and Editor of the Political Review.

Letters of Interest for Ring-tum Phi
positions due February 22, 1993;
Interviews - March 1, 1993

Letters of Interest for all other
publications due March 8, 1993;
Interviews - March 15,1993

 

Last Week:

Bball- Va. Wesleyan 77,W&L 59 (4-14)
MSwim- W&L 106,F&M 95 (7-0)
WSwim- F&M 109,W&L 62 (6-2)
Wrestle- York 42,W&L 9 (4-5)

PAGE 8

S

Ellie iaing-tum {ﬂirt

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

This Week:

Bball- EMC 2/6 7:30; at Lynchburg 2/10 _
Swim- at Hollins 2/4 (W);

MWC 2/6 2:00 (M&W)

Wrestle- at Va. State Toum. 2/6

IT- at VMI Relays 2/6 (M);at Pepsi Invit.

2/6 (W)

FEBRUARY 4, 1393

Sandsleads
at Gallaudet

By MARK SAPPENFIELD it’s difﬁcultto make up the twelve
. - points we have to forfeit.”
H" Staff wmer Freshman Rob Sands contin-

Washington and Lee head
wrestling coach Gary Franke
continuedto shufﬂe the top quar-
ter of the line-up to achieve the
best match-ups this past week-
end at the Gallaudet Invitational
in Washington, D.C.

The team won two and
dropped two on the day, leaving
their season record at 4-5.

Franke parted with any sort of
set ladder, and started some wres-
tlers who usually don’t see much
action to give some of his starters
time to rest and heal.

“Rob DeClerk[sophomore],
Cary Hansel[sophomore] and
Beau Kingijuniorl all saw some
action, so it’s nice to have those
guys who make a lot of our trips
get a chance to participate,” said
Franke.

The Generals opened the tour-
ney with a 27-19 win over
Rutgers-Camden, then lost to a
comparable Ursinus team, 35-
21.

Franke was most concerned
with the Ursinus loss.

‘‘I thoughtthat we were still in
the Ursinus match until we got
into the upper weights. We lost a
couple in the upper weights that
really hurt us, but that was a
really good match for us.

“If we could’ve turned a
couple of things around in our
favor, we would’ve been victori-
ous,” Franke said.

W&L finished the day by fall-
ing to a superior York squad, 42-
9, and then shelling host
Gallaudet, 41-6.

Franke said he empathized
with the situations of Rutgers-
Camden and Gallaudet.

“Rutgers-Camden and
Gallaudet were in the same situ-

ued to pace the team by going 4-
0 in the invitational, raising his
record to a tearn-best 16-6.

Sands continues to be the
Generals best wrestler this sea-
son. He registered 15 takedowns
on Saturday, eight of them alone
came against Mark Sutin of
Ursinus.

Sands had 20 takedowns en-
tering the weekend. He also led
the team in wins with 16,
takedowns with 35, escapes at
16, reversals with 11, two-point
nears falls with 5 and even three-
point near falls at 8.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and
Adam Williams went 2-1 , and 2-
2 respectively, to remain above
.500 on the season. Williams is
6-4, Shirley is 9-7.

The only other wrestler who
owns a season record above even
is freshman Colin Looney.

At 5-2, the 190-pounder
shows signs of becoming the
greatly needed ﬁxture in the top
third of Franke’s lineup.

Looney also completed the
invitational with an unblemished
of 4-0 mark.

Franke is excited about the
prospects of having a solid wres-
tler at a position that has been
troubling for the team for most of
the year.

“1ooney’s coming around. As
he gets more mat time at 190, he
gets himself in better wrestling
condition.”

The Generals will head into
this Sunday’s Division II and III
State Tournament at Longwood
looking to compete with teams
they’ve seen before, like
Longwood and Newport News
Apprentice. W&L will also run
into talented teams they’ve yet to

ation we were in, competing with see, like Norfolk State.

a limited line-up. When we com- Wrestlers like Sands, Shirley,
pete against a team with solid and Williams will be inpositions
wrestlers at each weight class, to place individually.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

Derek Carter (40) and Bryan Bradlng get set to run the Generals half-court offense
against Virginia Wesleyan. Carter scored 1 1 and Bradlng seven In W&L's 77-59 loss.

VV&Lk;

shot

at tourny ‘

fadesfast,

By SEAN O’RouRRr2
Phi Sports Editor

There are poignant moments
in all our lives that seem to deﬁne
just who we are.

If you were one of the fans at
the Warner Center for the Gener-
als game against Virginia
Wesleyan last night, you might
have seen that poignant moment
for the W&L basketball team.

With less than 10 minutes
gone in the first half, freshman
Derek Carter and senior Bob
Ehret tried to rtm a pick-and-roll.

Ehret set a good pick and
Carter cut around it perfectly,
losing his defender in Ehret’s
chess. Ehret discarded the Mar-
lin and rolled towards the basket.
Carter let ﬂy with a perfect lead
pass, but Ehret became entangled
with his own defender, and the
ball sailed harmlessly out of
bounds.

lt’s painful to say, but that
was the defining moment for the

Generals this week.

Despite playing tough against
averyta1entedVirgirtiaWesleyan
team, the Generals dropped an-
other game, and more impor-
tantly, another Old Domimion
Athletic Conference game.

On Saturday, the Generals
took a van ride to Greensboro,
N.C. to take on the Guilford
Quakers. W&L took it squarely
on the chin, 81-60.

The Quakers became the ﬁfth
straight team to shoot better than
60 percent from the floor. '
Guilford came out ﬂying against
a very lethargic Generals team.
The Quakers ran and ran and ran
all over the place for the first 20
minutes. g

W&L’stransition defense was
unmercifully pounded by the
quicker Quakers. Guilford re-
corded eight uncontested layups
in the first half. Eight! You don't
win basketball games when you

U see FADE, page 7‘

Swim teams stay competitive at F&M meet

By Krsmr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams traveled up north to
Pennsylvania ,to take on Franklin &
Marshall, Saturday.

Unfortunately, the teams took differ-
ent routes from there.

The men maintained their undefeated
status with a 106-95 win. They are 7-0
with two meets remaining before the
Emory Invitational after mid-terrn break
and the NCAA Championships next
month.

The women’s record, however, fell to

6-2 after a 109-62 loss. The team had
begun the year 6-0.

The two defeats have come largely due
to opposing teams with significantly larger
rosters. F&M had only 12 swimmers, but
the Generals were two members short.
The six that competed for W&L were just
in over their heads by taking on a team
with twice as many swimmers.

“It would have been much closer if we
had everyone,” said sophomore Susan
Fisher.

Fisher contributed as much as she could
for the Generals, placing second in the
200-Individual Medley and third 200-
backstroke. She also led off the 200-

freestyle relay that edged F&M by just
over a second.

“They had a couple of really good
swimmers,” she said. “I don’t know if we
could have won, but it would ’ve been a lot
closer.”

Senior Claire Dudley claimed the
team’s only individual win by taking the
50-freestyle. .

Dudley, the squad’s only senior, won it
with a time of :26.28, 1.4 seconds ahead of
second place.

Dudley nearly won the 200-breast-
stroke, missing by just .3 seconds, and
anchored the victorious 200-free relay.

The women had to compete without

sophomore Marina Vasilara and fresh-_
man Rebekah Prince. Vasilara is conﬁng

off an ankle injury that is still bothering '

her, but she will be available for Thursday
night's meet at Hollins College.

“It’s not great, but I’ll compete,” said
Vasilara. “It should be a really good com-
petition.”

Prince, a freshman who has alrcidy
entered the W&L record books, has been
ill but is also expected to compete.

“Everyone’s been getting sick, but we I‘
should all be ready, now,” said freshman’ ‘

Jill Sheets. V
U See‘ AQUATICS, pag§_7

 

When he’s not playing football or lacrosse, Robert Hull is making sure he stays
competitive in his pre-med major.

‘WV’?

3:5‘ ' -:=:-:-:- :«.-:-:-:-.-:- '=‘5'=il4'1'='¢'l‘5" "

'.'-I-I-H-'-I _-I-:-: '-C-' 1-:

 
   
  
  
 

-I-C-I‘-D-I-1-Is‘.-E-'-I-I-I-T.-Z-C-H-I:. "C":':":‘:"H"C i-:-c '\.'

igeeéﬁe

1/2 Rack- $5.99

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The F?ing—tum Phi

I ‘pl ..-
uu -

      

All-U—Can Eat $4.99

- '.-.-.- .-.- .-.-.-.-.-.-

King cut $13.95

   

Hu|l’s a hometown success

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Contributing Writer

So many awards banquets, so
little time...

This may have been freshman
Robert Hull ’s dilemma last year.
He played four sports for Lex-
ington High School, and raked in
armloads of honors such as Most
Valuable Player of the Virginia
East-West All-Starfootball game
and state heavyweight wrestling
champion.

Hull was recruited for three
different sports at W&L, but only
football coach Gary Fallon and
lacrosse coach Vince Stagnitta
were lucky enough to land him
on their rosters this year.

r-C-C-I-'2':-I-C-I-I-I-I-1-I-I-I-I-I-C-I-I-C-:-'1-I-I-I-C-2-'-I-1-:1:-'I-.-I-.-.-.-.-.-.-i-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.'i.-:'E'€-2':-5-H-I-' I-H-I-I-1-I-I}!
.
III

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

at

Truck Stop 

Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99
Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable
Whole rack- $10.95

Saturday Night Prime Rib
Queen cut $11.95
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

4 miles North on Route 11
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell

p

:-:-:-:-:-:-:-t-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-.-:-.  :-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-: '-:r:-:r:-:-:-:-' ' :-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:  _

 

But the decision to trim his
workload downto two sports was
merely one of timing.

“I couldn’t wrestle and play
lacrosse, so I decided to concen-
trate on lacrosse, ” Hull said.

The General’s track and field
team may have also lost a versa-
tile athlete in Hull, who com-
peted during high school in the
shotput, discus, 400-meter dash
and 400-meter relay. But alas,
the freshman decided to devote
his time to his two favorite sports.

Hull noted that the competi-
tion in college football was high,
which made it quite different than
in high school.

“I didn’t play very much—
we had a great senior squad,” he

xv.-I-I-:-

  

 

said.

As a defensive lineman, Hull
spent this year backing up the
Generals’ talented front—four. But
it gave him time to learn and did
not diminish his enthusiasm.“I’m
looking forward to playing more
next year,” he said. “We’re go-
ing to have a really good squa .”

When it comes to his abilities
on a lacrosse field, Hull, a
midfielder, is modest. “I’m only
good enough to make the team.”
However, he does enjoy the “hard
but interesting” practices.

“It’s a lot of fun playing with
the caliber of players that are at
W&L,” he said. “Not only are the
upperclassmen great, but the
freshmen are really good, too.

of

There's a lot of competition.”

One would expecta two-sport
athlete to have very little tint to
spare, and Hull does claim that
he is “very busy.” But the multi-
talented freshman ﬁnds time to
participate in the Big Brother/
Big Sisterprograrn in Lexington, ,
and volunteers at the hospital,
working with a radiologist in
nuclear medicine and the radiol-
ogy lab. :

With his work at the hospital
you might have guessed Hull is ,
on the pre-med track, and if he ‘
continues to perform as he has in
the past, the W&L commugity
will be cheering him while he’s
in the classroom, not to mention '
when he’s on Wilson Field.

.  World Treasures for the Children

liesterdav, Today. 8: Tomorrow

  
   
 
 

 

..._
" "r
rd Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLAlITATION.FL 3331 . _ _
  r _ ciudrotromcs
....,..... '::.‘:..t°.." 3:.::*:".:.“:.2.:’.:.:3r..":.°::.::°.;’§::::e'.°.:.':.* I YES! Iwanmsao/MASFERCARDQ c-an .  * “°*° - W W i
cn.-dn cardsrln your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed Ilnd s'5 which is 100% refundable it not a ggggl; 5?;";E
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1URNED DOWN BEFORE! ' approved jmmedlateb, . TOSHBA MARANTZ
VISA!’ and MmterCard® the credit cards you I I KEF CWD
deserve and need Ior— lD—BOOKS—-DEPARTMENT 1 NAME . BOSTON DEFINITIVE
Sr0REs—1‘UIT|oN—ENTERTAINMENT— . . KUPSCH BAZOOKA
EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKE'lS-RES'l‘AURAN'1S— ' ADDRESS ' . SRRARER TRADE up PROGRAM
HofrELs—Mo'rELs—GAs-CAR REN'rALs- ; gtg§§‘§wWcn0N PLAN
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE _ ZIP I . ,,,.,,,,,,;“,*,.‘,,"g'C‘;“C§’§,:’;‘,§f'“‘"*
I I - we SERVICE MOST BRANDS
“ﬂy '   ' - MASTER CARDIVISA/DISCOVER
I . -
'5" were: No credit I SIGNATURE I (800)468-6667
msglﬂaago 5:‘ "0 SEC|ll'1_tY deDOS1t! ' mm: MasterCard is a registered trademark d‘ Mrmerorru lntcrnallornl. rrre ' Corner of Ogden a. Starkey Roads
gun” 9‘ 6 I Visa Is a registered tndennrk or VISA us». Inc. Ind vrsA tmermuorar I Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
ou “ Approval absolutely guaranteed so 3 smug Murlulon 100% GUARANWEM . 2750 osden Road- Roanoke
I I
1 1 1 - — 3 1 Z I t Z 3 3 I Z 2 C 3 C I Z I 2 Z Z

I C , ,

 

 

A for using such a

THE INSIDE STORY

~ Chi: iﬁng-tum Iﬂlti

 

A . SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT

By RICHARD WEAVER

Phi Reader Relations Coordinator
.1}

The Ring-tum Phi was first
printed on Sept. 18, 1897, a private

» money-making venture by a stu-

dent named J. Slusser. He served
ePlIi business
manager and used
the Phi’s income
to pay his tuition “'
for Washington
and Lee.
ThePhi’s name
cane from averse
inapopular W&L
football song.
Whentheﬁrstedi-
tor printed the
song’s1yrics inthe
Phi’s fourth issue,
he received a let-
ter scolding him

    

song, which in-

cluded the word “hell,” and print-
i itontheﬁrstpage,no1ess.This
s all scandal helped create stu-
dent interest in the newspaper,

I which was not widely distributed,

and contributed to its survival.

Already in existence at that time
was a magazine called The South-
em Collegian. Founded in 1868,
the Collegian served as a quarterly
literary journal, as well as a report
of university debating societies.

The Collegian later came to in-
clude news articles for a time, be-
fgre reverting back to a literary
journal. The Collegian welcomed
the Phi for taking up a role that it
could no longer fulﬁll, that of in-
fonning the Washington and Lee
community about everyday issues.

Starting with the ﬁrst Phi editor,
are tradition of each editor hand-
picking his successor was estab-
lished. This practice continued until
the rum of the century when it was
decided that the positions of editor
and business manager would be
ﬁaled through general student body
elections.

The Ring-tfum Phi.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The result of these open elec-
tions was a degeneration in the
Phi’s quality, as some editors were
elected because of football ability
and general popularity, with no
regard to journalistic prowess.

Phi editors wereknown to take
offforthe weekend and, as a result,
there would be no
issue the next
week. The issues
that were pub-
lished became or-
gans for certain fra-
ternities, political
points of view and
honor groups.

In 1920, recog-
nizing these prob-
lems,tlIe editor and
business manager
of the Phi joined
the editors and
business managers
of the Calyx and
the Collegian to
form the Publications Board. The
board helped improve the quality
of W&L publica-
tions heads and re-
placedthe method
of election. By
l937,ithad estab-
lished the process
it still uses today,
choosing the pub-
licaI:ions’ heads it-
self, without the
student election.

However, the

 

the Pub Board to sign slips saying,
“I pledge on my honor that I will
vote for the following candidate

When an editor defied the
Clique’s agenda in 1934, the group
simply disconnected him from the
paper. His name was removed from
the staff box and a more loyal
Clique member was named “act-
ing editor” for the rest of the term.

The Clique’s power over the
Pub Board faded away in the late
1930s, after the dean of students
persuaded the Pub Board to pass a
constitutional amendment more
speciﬁcally deﬁning terms of mem-
bers’ elections.

The Clique continued to exer-
cise inﬂuence over other campus
organizations until the early 1950s.
It awarded control of various orga-
nizations to certain fraternities and
other groups of individuals.

In 1930 there was a movement
to change the Phi’s name to some-
thing that the readership could re-
late to better than an old football
s o n g
verse. The
P h i
printed a
series of
editorials
calling for
a vote to
determine
if the name
should be
changed.

new method of In the
election (and the end, a let-
Pub Board itself) ter signed
began to become by“Alum-
controlled by a nus” con-
campus-wide vincedthe
group of power- editors
fulstudents called that the
the“Clique.”The P h i ’ s
Clique decided a n a m e
week or two be- wouldbea
forethePubBoard link to the

election who the new publication
heads would be and passed its
agenda by requiring members of

EXECUTIVE EDITORS

past for all students who would
ever attend Washington and Lee.
The movement to change the name

NEWS EDITOR

C/\'l‘llRY.\' L()Pl(‘.COl_() /\.\'D RICIIARD PELTZ

The executive editors supervise the editing and design of all sections of the Phi and handle all
rywspaper personnel. As heads of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board, the executive editors discuss
and form the newspaper’s policies. In addition to their responsibilities on the editorial side of the
newspaper, the executive editors are liaisons between the editorial, advertising and business staffs.
The executive editors also serve as ofﬁcial representatives of the Phi and coordinators of public

service activities.

It SPORTS EDITOR

 

SI-:A.\' O’RoI.:RI<I«:

The sports editor selects a single sport for
each term that he reports on exclusively. The
sports editor is responsible for assigning re-
ﬁorters to keep track of all W&L sports and

designs the Phi sports section.

 

FEATURES EDITOR

JOYCE BAUTISTA

 

The features editor assigns feature articles,
stories that look at news from a different angle
or focus on community interests. The features
editor is responsible for features editing, design
and layout, as well as ﬁnding art for features.

GREGORY PA'l'l'ERSO_\'

 

The news editor is responsible for the selec-
tion, assignment and editing of news stories.
When the stories are completed, the news editor
lays out the news pages. The news editor also
recruits new reporters and serves as a member
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

was abandoned.

During World War II, the Phi
ceased to exist and was replaced
by “The Columns,” which billed
itself as a “war-time successor to

years after Vietnam.

One of the most memorable
people of the Phi in the 1980s was
its 1983 editor, Todd Smith. Smith
was the son of Robert P. Smith, Jr.

theRing-tum Phi.” a Washington and
The Columns pub- Lee alumnus who
lished 59 issues, was instrumental
everyFridayofthe in the destruction
college year, until of the Clique’s
1944. power over all stu-
The Columns dent organizations
was hampered by in the 1950s.
the high turnover Todd Smithwas
rate of its editors. very devotedto the
In oneinstance,an Phi — during his
editor was elected senior year, he
one day and failed all of his

drafted into the
military the next,
never having put a
Phi together.

In 1944, Wash-
ington and Lee's
student newspaper was discontin-
ued altogether. Buttwo years later,
with the end of the war and the
return to normalcy on campus, the
Ring-tum Phi was published again.

Starting in the late 1950s, two
separate Ring-tum Phis were pro-
duced. One Phi came out on Tues-
days and the other Phi came out on
Fridays. Each Phi had its own set
of editors, facilities and staff. The
two Phis created competition, thus
making each newspaper better.

By the late 1960s, however, the
Phi had become singular again and
returned to one issue per week. Its
editors, following the anti-war
mood of the day on college cam-
puses, were activists. The Phi was
known to call for the resignations
of professors whose viewpoints it
disagreed with.

In 1973, the Phi narrowly sur-
vived aPub Board proposal to shut
down its production. A new editor
was elected and charged with
changing the Phi ’s content and for-
mat. At this point and throughout
thelatter part of the decade,the Phi
becamemore conservative, follow-
ing the mood of the campus in the

The people behind the Phi

 

EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

classes during fall
tenn to focus on the
paper. He had to
come back for an
extra semester to
graduate.

In 1989, Smith was investigat-
ing drug trafﬁcking in Peru as a
freelance journalist when he was
abducted, tortured and killed by
Maoist Shining Path guerrillas. The
Shining Path suspected him of be-
ing a U.S. drug enforcement agent.

In 1990, a fellowship was estab-
lished at W&L inthe name of Todd
Smith, to be awarded to qualiﬁed
students willing to do academic
work in and learn the culture of a
foreign country.

In 1992, Phi Executive Editor
Richard Peltz received the fellow-
ship and spent spring term of 1992

FEBRUARY 4, 1993

‘Ring-tum phi, stickeri bum’

Since 1897, through the Clique and wartime, the Phi covers W&L’s news

in Costa Rica studying the media
and press laws there.

In the past year, The Ring-tum
Phi has updated its technology and
production through the use of desk-
top publishing. The purchase of
three Macintosh computers has in-
creased the staff’s creativity in lay-
out and design, has made produc-
tion more efﬁcient and has already
saved the newspaper thousands of
dollars in production costs.

During their tenure, current Ex-
ecutive Editors Peltz and Cathryn
Lopiccolo have worked to make
the Phi more independent and more
realistic from abusiness standpoint.

The most obvious change yet is
the new Phi subscriptions policy
enacted in 1992. Instead of receiv-
ing a donation from the Executive
Committee, the Phi now sells a
bulk student subscription that the
EC may choose to renew or dis-
continue each fall and winter.

In addition, all faculty and ad-
ministrators now must pay for the
Phi, so student funds are not used
to pay for faculty papers. In the fall
of 1992, the administration rejected
an offer for the bulk purchase of
Phis for all faculty members.

Peltz and Lopiccolo are cur-
rently working with the EC to draft
and pass amendments to the Stu-
dent Body Constitution. The
amendments will update the con-
stitution to reﬂect current EC poli-
cies and will give the EC and the
Phi a greater measure of freedom.

The Cheer
Each other’s back, boys, Has got a knack, boys,
For making gains, sir, Round the end. '
And it’s a sin, sir, For Oberlin, sir,
To buck the V.M.l. boys’ line so awful hard.
Then join the yell, boys, And yell like hell, boys,
Let’s give a rousing, rumbling, roaring, football yell.
Ring-tum phi, stickeri bum!
We are the stuff from old Lexington.

MALLORY MI-:YIzRs

 

The photography editor coordinates photo
assignments with the news and features editors
and coordinates staff photographers. The pho-
tography editor is also responsible for making
sure all photos are developed in time for layout.

    

FR/\.\'CESCA K12

 

The editorial page editor is responsible for
the design of the editorial and op-ed pages. The
editorial page editor compiles columns and
letters, monitoring all the contributions in terms
of the Phi’s standards of libel and obscenity.
She is also a member of the Editorial Board.

RICIIARD WEAVER

The reader relations coordinator develops
and organizes the newspaper's public service
activities. This year's projects include estab-
lishing a Ring-tum Phi scholarship fund and a
memorial to the late Professor of Journalism
Clark E. Mollenhoff.

SENIOR COPY EDITOR

‘rwv-»__

READER RELATIONS

 
 

NIKKI MAGAZINER

The senior copy editor proofreads incoming
articles for grammatical errors and Associated
Press style standards. The senior copy editor is
also a staff reporter and works on Wednesday
night layout. The senior copy editor is a mem-
ber of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

BUSINESS MANAGER

Wlll'l‘NI-IY SWIFI‘

The business manager is responsible for
advertising and subscriptions billing, in addi-
tion to keeping up with the Phi’s accounts
payable. The business manager also keeps
abreast of the Phi’s overall ﬁnancial status.

 

SUNDAY

The Ring-tum Phi editors meet to review and critique the
previous week’s issue, and to go over the coming week’s
stories. The Editorial Board chooses a writer and topic for
the next staff editorial.

MONDAY

The features editor assigns stories, two weeks in advance
of publication. Features stories for the next issue are due in
the afternoon for editing.

  

The Phi staff poses for a Calyx picture.

WEDNESDAY — A.M.

The executive editors read all copy, and editors make
corrections on computer. The Phi has three Macintoshes in
a network, meaning the memory of any one computer can
be accessed from any other. The computers have transla-
tion software, so they can accept copy typed on the
university’s IBM computers. Copy editing is done in the
Microsoft Word program, and layout is done on Aldus
PageMaker. The features and editorial pages are com-
pleted by Wednesday noon, freeing the computers for
news and sports. Pages are printed on the Phi’ s laser printer
in tiles, which are put through a wax machine to make them
adhesive and then assembled on actual-size layout sheets.

Editors crop and line photos at The News-Gazette.

‘   ‘lie I'ni‘g of The ’Rir'1-‘t

TUESDAY

News stories for the week’s issue are due for editing by the
news editor. The business staff produces a list of ads for the
week, and the executive editors lay out the ads, deciding how
many pages the newspaper will be and which pages will be
dedicated to which sections. Forthe opinion section, letters,
My Views, and General Notes are due at noon. Christopher
Matthews’ column comes by mail, and George Will’s col-
umn is faxed. The editorial page assistant types copy for the
opinion pages. Talkback copy and photographs are due to the
editorial page editor. “Storyboard” begins at 7 p.m. All
editors and reporters meet to discuss story ideas for the issue
that will come out in nine days, assign stories to the writers,
and assign photographs. The editorial page editor and fea-
tures editor design and lay out opinion and feature pages.

 

A News-Gaze technician prepar a page.



 

Stories go though several stags of eding.

Phi editors lay out their pages on Aldus PageMaker after sketching a “dummy” ayout by hand.

 
 

The editorial srarr meets on Tuesday nig

    

xx

WEDNESDAY — P.M.

News stories are prepared for placement in Pag
Sports reporters bring in their stories. The pho‘
editor finishes all developing and goes over negati
the news and executive editors to decide which
print. At dinner time, the executive editors and ne'
design the news pages. The news and sports editor
their pages on PageMaker, then assemble their prir
The cartoonist brings in his cartoon, and the edito
editor lays it in.

 

ig-trh Phi’

  
  
    
   
   

The news section always begins on the front page and
often extends to other pages. The name of the newspa-
per, underlined by the volume, number, placeof publi-
cation and date, is called the flag or nameplate. The
front page includes the week’s most important stories.
Sometimes longer stories jump to inside pages. In
design, editors try to make several entry points on the
‘ v c front page, places which attract the eye to start reading.
The teaser boxes at the top of the page highlight stories
inside the paper. The Phi does not use anindex box
-because the paper is short enough to be perused quickly.

 
  

ieeis on Tues nihi to ialkboui the issue at ll appear nine days later.

OPINION

in: lawn. uni I

The opinion section usually occupies pages two and _
three but may extend to other pages. In the left column   ‘
of pagetwo is tliestaff editorial, which is the opinion
of the Editorial Board, unless it is initialed by only some
board members. That _ is [the only place in the paper
where the editors express their opinions. The Phi ad-
ministrative staff is listed in the masthead, or staff box.
‘-The editorial cartoon'app'e’ars on page two and reﬂects
the opinion of the cartoonist. The Phi prints two syndi-
cated :columns and a weekly humor column which
r_eﬂec't=the opinions of their authors. The Phi also prints
' My View‘ columns. and letters, which anyone may
write. -The-Phi does not edit opinions for content unless
there .isjpotential.libelo_r obscenity. General Notes, a
free bulletin board, and Talkback appear on page three;

          I

_ . V _ Stories of human interest or aboutihe arts appear in this
> Chinese New Year celebrates the Year of the Cock  .  ' A    ight'heaned or take a deep

      

‘.5’ if  .

rages of editing.

AY — P.M.

)1‘ placement in PageMaker.
:ir stories. The photography

 

and goes over negatives with  . Axlhti. 9 . r tool: ata serious issue. _'I'l__1is;section_ usuallyioccupies -
mm  t t  e  ifs;:*::':;.:::*:.:f.:*;:::::3s::i::.:'.::::::::‘::;
utive editors and news editor  ‘ ’ ' ‘

jg _ ' greater ﬂexibility than other section editors in using
‘ more creative designs and different fonts in headlines.
The Phi has a columnist who occasionallywrites music

:ws and sports editors lay out
n assemble their printed tiles.

. V74‘ K‘ V 
Faculty alums reczill fmi life  

 

 

moon, and the editorial page __  A_ _  .e ,, _  _ , _  .. ----«-Ia--7- reviews in this section. The syndicated puzzle Colon-
Lose“ “med ﬁles are assembied imo es ,  "+3 -1-: nade Crossword usually, appears here, as well as a new
p pug ' U  -Iﬂlw feature, 50 years ago inthe Phi.
Photographs, sized and marked for cropping by editors the
night before, are taken to The News-Gazette by 9 a.m. Editors
make ﬁnal corrections at the Phi office, then take the pages to » This section covers the Generals athletics. Stories here
The News-Gazette. A technician there photographs the Phi’s are often amix dfthe feature and news styles of writing.
pictures through a ﬁlter of tiny dots, producing dot_man.ix [fthereisan opinion column in this section, itislabeled

as such. The Phi uses a sports front format, which
means that the most important stories are on the
newspaper’s back page. Jumps and other sports sto-

prints for publication. Editors cut the pictures to size, stick
them to the pages with wax, and outline them with line tape.

The News-Gazette technician then photographs the actual- ries are on inside pages. The Phi does not have enough
size pages, producing broad—sheet size negatives. A driver SPHCC t0 _00V€F 6V_6ry Sport 6V<=_f>' Week» 50 highlights
from the Phi’s printer in.Covington picks up the negatives at :’e‘:t'i‘o:'1a;‘l’l‘:i a;?o:;’;‘)‘:::“(°;1‘:Eh:‘:i‘:::e:);’:h:
noon. The Covington printer makes originals from the nega- sports ﬂag atthe top ohm backpage are ears’ “boxes,
tiVCS and prints hOWCVCI' many COpiCS Of thC  [hC editors which list last week’s Generals scores and the coming
order. In the evening, the driver returns with bundled copies W6<‘J<’S games and times-

   

of the Phi. The circulation staff takes over distribution.
If  hand. All photos by Mallory Meyer: except Calyx photo by Megan McCloskey "‘ C’

r pool player.

THE umvrsnsirv usmnv

WASHINGTON a. LEE umvmgm,

LEXINGTON. VA 2446!)

EEB1ugggi’

THE SEASON or Love

W&L Men Share Their Wishes
For A Perfect Valentine’s Day

0

Miracle Finish

Last Second Basket

Keeps Generals’

Tournament Hopes Alive

he ‘ilting-tum iﬁlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 18

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

a
No Vote Ashby
Ames 5°” _ William
Hutton Tompkins T0195
489 664 354

O

 

EC President

    

No Vote Reggie

Bill

Chappell

549
EC Vice President SCC President
1185 ballots cast PC

  

C0“? 202 EC Secetary

 

Experience counts

Tompkins, Kull, Hackney win EC spots

. g By MOLLY AFTER
Phi Contributing Writer

Second-year law EC Rep. Bob Tompkins de-
feated junior Ames Hutton by 175 votes to win the
post of Executive Committee president Monday.

Tompkins garnered 664 votes to Hutton’s 489.
TlQ;re were 31 people not voting and one write-in
ballot for junior Andrew Schneider.

Tompkins said his experience on the EC will _

smooth the transition to a new committee.
“Because so much of what goes on is passed

down, [having] that continuity will make our work '

much more consistent,” Tompkins said.
Olunior Jimmy Kull beat second-year law stu-
» dent James Rambeau 569 votes to 534 for the vice
presidential spot. Six students cast write-in votes
for junior Joe Ramseur and 76 did not vote.
Kull, currently a junior EC representative, also
cited experience as an asset to the next EC.
“Last year there were only four of 13 members

4;

with experience,” Kull said. “There was a lot of
hesitiation during budget allocations and appoint-
ments because we didn’t understand how the sys-
tem worked.

“Hopefully [we] will be able to use our experi-
ence to guide EC members in these two processes,”
Kull said.

Junior EC Rep. Ashby Hackney defeated junior
Maurice Cole and first-year law student William

Toles with a total of 578 votes to become secretary.
Toles received 364 votes and Cole got 202, with 41
students not voting.

Hackney said he has confidence in next year’s
president and vice president. ‘

“Bob’s really well spoken, and he listens well,”
Hackney said. “[Jimmy] is really responsible. I
don’t see any conflicts at all.”

Also, second-year law student and incumbent
Reggie Aggarwal narrowly defeated junior Bill
Chappell to win a second term as Student Conduct
Committee chairman. Aggarwal got 584 votes to
Chappell’s 549, with 52 not voting.

W

 

‘Here he comes, Mr. W&L!

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring~tum Phi

Freshman Pat McKenna scams his way to victory in the Mr. W&L contest Wednes-
-day. McKenna, who was sponsored by Kappa Alpha Theta, displayed his repertoire
of pick-up lines, such as, “Do you have any Irish in you? Would you like some?”

-Billiard and burrito bonanza

New hangout
to offer pool

By JAMESON LEONARDI
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students may soon
fwd themselves behind the eight ball with
the opening of a new pool hall.

Sharks is located at 18 E. Nelson St., the

 

Ready
for the border?

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 11, 1993

Students rally for prof

By NIKKI MAGAZINER
Phi Senior Copy Editor

In the movie “Dead Poets Society,” stu-
dents distraught over the firing of their favor-
ite professor stood on their desks, exclaiming
“O Captain! my Captain!” in protest.

Last week, the Walt Whitman phrase ap-
peared onposters along theColonnade. Wash-
ington and Lee students were protesting the
English department’s decision not to offer a
tenure-track position to Instructor John Lynch.

“I think that the main point [of the protest]
is to show support for Professor Lynch, and
to let [other students] be aware of what is
going on,” sophomore English student Stacy
Donovan said Feb. 4.

Donovan was one of about 30 students
who protested Friday by wearing black and
sitting on the lawn in front of Payne Hall.

Lynch said he was moved at the sight of
the signs.

“I was touched that students could think
such things about me,” Lynch said. “It’s
hard. I was in tears more than once while
walking around campus.”

Lynch, who was hired two years ago for a
temporary, non—tenure track position, was a
finalist in the search to fill a tenure-track
post, Professor of English Edwin Craun said.

But though a 10-member student commit-
tee overwhelmingly preferred Lynch for the
opening, the English faculty recommended
another candidate.

Craun said he would not release the iden-
tity of the candidate because she has not yet
responded to the job offer.

For the past month, the English depart-
ment has been narrowing the national search
to fill a position vacated by Professor Sidney
Coullin g two years ago.

Craun said ‘W&L'ihired Lynch for a non-
tenure track, two-year position after the first
search for a tenure-track professor proved
unsuccessful. ’

Craun said Lynch was hired with the un-
derstanding that the tenure-track job would
reopen this year. A tenure-track position is
one where the insructor teaches for six years
before being evaluated for tenure.

Last fall, W&L begana new search. Craun
said a four—member faculty search commit-
tee narrowed down about 350 applicants to
four, one of whom was Lynch.

Craun said candidates were evaluated
based on strength of writing, strength of
teaching and the potential of the applicant to
be an effective member of the university. He
said these qualities are also the basis for
tenure and salary evaluations.

Craun said that because of recent state
education funding cuts, the job market for
English professors was exceptionally com-
petitive this year.

“We aim for the top people,” Craun said.
“There was a backup of very strong candi-
dates. [The department] had more trouble
making decisions at every stage of the pro-
cess than we have ever had before.”

Lynch and the three other candidates were
asked to come to campus to teach a class for
the English department faculty and 10 se-
lected students.

Craun said the students were asked to
observe each candidate’s teaching and sub-
mit evaluations to help the faculty in their

. Photo by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tu Phi‘

English Instructor John Lynch listens to senior Scott Howe Wednesday in a

class on Victorian thought.

decision. The student group chose Lynch.

But when the English students found out
that Lynch was not offered the position, the
protests began.

Some students said they were upset be-
cause they thought the faculty ignored the
opinions of the student committee.

“Who are the better judges—the people
who sit in their offices or the people who sit
in classes?” freshman John Branam said.

But Craun said that while teaching is the
most important factor, there are other con-
siderations in choosing a professor.

Dean of the College John Elrod agreed
that the faculty should have more weight in
the decision than students.

“W&L is a teaching institution,” Elrod
said. “There is no one more acutely aware of
this than the faculty. The faculty’s job is to
perpetuate itself. They are driven by the
same motivations as the students.”

And one of the lessons students learned
from Lynch was how to pursue what they
believe in.

“Part of what I teach is that students
should think for themselves,” Lynch said.
“[Students should] ask their own questions
and take their education into their own hands.”

Lynch said last week was an important
educational situation for his students, be-
cause they were compelled to ask the ques-

tions they needed to ask.

Students wrote letters to academic deans
and English faculty members in tribute to
Lynch’s unique teaching style.

“Lynch epitomizes open-mindedness,”
junior Kate Stimeling said. “He is diversity.”

Though there were few students still wear-
ing black on Monday, the signs and senti-
ments of disappointment remained

Elrod said the “O Captain! my Captain!”
allusion to Dead Poets Society demonstrated
how much the students cared, but said the
comparison is not appropriate.

“In the movie, the professor is leaving
because the institution is behaving incor-
rectly,” Elrod said. “I didn’t like that. W&L
has behaved correctly.” -

Elrod said that if the candidate who has
been offered the job declines, the decision
will be reconsidered by the English. depart-
ment.

But he said the opinions of protesters
would not affect any reconsideration.

“We have to stay on course,” Elrod said.
“We have to do what we were going to do, as
if the students hadn’t done what they did.”

But the decision leaves Lynch deprived of
what he calls “the shape of my whole life.”

“I think that for me, in the end, teaching is
my whole life,” he said. “What matters to me
is that my teaching matters to my students.”

to run

By GREGORY PA1‘rERsoN

Phi News Editor

former location of Hunter and Huntress. It
is owned and operated by Lynne Abbott,
and is scheduled to officially open on Feb.
16, but Abbott said she may open as soon
a_§Friday.

“The only thing that can prevent us
from opening on Friday is not having the
handicapped bathrooms installed,” Abbott
said. “Everything else is ready for us to
open this weekend.”

Sharks will feature five pool tables,
e ectronic darts, basketball, air hockey,
pinball, video games and a snack bar, Abbott
said.

There will also be a special pool table
that can be reserved by members of “Club,
Shark” only. The membership fee is $10
and the table will cost $10 per hour to rent.

“It’s a I00-year-old regulation-size pool
t9ole,” Abbott said. “It’s for the serious

“This concept cuts out a lot of people
who only want to play one game of pool,”
Abbott said. “It’s also good for dates be-
cause it’s a real drag to have a date and have
to wait for a pool table.”

One thing Sharks will not have, how-
ever, is a beer or liquor license.

“Not having a liquor license was part of
our use permit,” Abbott said. “We had no
choice. We couldn't open with a liquor
license. Besides, The Bone is 50 feet away
if people want to have a drink.”

Abbott plans to market Sharks prima-
rily to Lexington’s young people, espe-
cially the college-age crowd.

“I want to cultivate the college crowd,”
Abbott said. “I want Sharks to become a
W&L and VMI hangout. I believe that a
town of 4,000 college students needs a
place to play pool.”

future.”

Taco Bell is coming to Lexington.

The Mexican fast food restaurant plans to
open a franchise in Lexington across from Stone-
wall Square shopping center on Route 60 byJune
1, according to Taco Bell consultant Lee Garvin.

“Lexington is an interesting place. It had a
tremendous number of tourists in 1992, and it has
two colleges and a stable population,” Garvin
said. “It’s a good place to be now and in the

The owner of the Lexington franchise,
BurgerBusters Inc. of Charlottesville, has a con-
tract to purchase the land across from Long John
Silver’s and Woody Chevrolet, Gamer said.

Gamer said the sale of the land is contingent
on working out “a couple of engineering matters
and a matter with [the Viginia Department of
Transportation],’’ but said the deal should be
closed by April 1.

The current owner of the land, Charles W.
Barger, said the students should not set their
hearts on the June 1 date.

“Their target is June,” Barger said. “But the
waythings work, realistically it mi ghtnot be here
until [students] come back in the fall.”

W&L
to allow
filming

By MOLLY APrER
Phi Contributing Writer

Students might hear cries of
“lights, camera, action” at W&L
this spring.

University offi ials have
agreed to allow Ca rgo Films
of Paris to film “The Foreign
Student” at Washington and Lee.
However, the production com-
pany has yet to decide if they will
use the W&L campus in the
movie.

Film crews would shoot here
for only about five days at the
end of March, W&L Director of
Communications Brian Shaw
said.

Photo by Richard Peltz, The F?/'ng—tum Phi

Hammers away

“We haven’t heard deﬁnitely
that they are going to shoot in
Virginia,” Shaw said. “They were

Kappa Alpha member Thomas Kennedy works on
renovations to the Rockbridge Area Free Clinic Satur-
day. Kennedy said fraternities, VMI cadets and other
volunteers are working to cut renovation costs.

in North Carolina last week, look-
ing at other locations.”

The majority oflilming would
eoneeutrztte on shooting areas like

U see MOVIE, page 5

 

 

  
   

 

PAGE 2

Elite filing-tum iﬂlri

Founded September 18, 1897

i i - ' Q
Ddyamssn.

The Big Four results are in. The good news is that all the
candidates this year were real people (Mickey Mouse didn’t
campaign). The bad news is that many of the candidates might as
well have been the same person.

This year’s races were dominated by incumbents. There were
only three challengers to six incumbents. The race for the two
highest offices, Executive Committee president and vice presi-
dent, included only current EC members.

We can’t help but attribute the shortage of challengers to the
early elections. We have said in this column before that the Student
Body Constitution never intended that elections be held before
February break, and by deviating from that wise intent, the EC
might have limited the race.

The contest for president was particularly disappointing. We
would never endorse a knockdown-dragout debate in which
candidates attack one another’s sexual histories. But maybe a little
disagreement? Tompkins and Hutton would do nothing but en-
dorse one another. For voters, it was like choosing between
Channin and White Cloud. You could only tell the difference by
squeezing. .

But students must accept some of the blame for this year’s quie
race. The turnout of less than 1,200 would be impressive for a
developing country where the people have to take boats to the
polling places, but for our small, intellectual community nestled
among Virginia’s mountains, 1,200 is pathetic.

Wake up and smell the decaf, people! Elections are the one time
during the year when public officials show up at your door to be
directly accountable to you. When general elections roll around
next month, please vote.

Let the hunt begin

The smell of love —— and sweat —— is in the air. The scent of the
hunt

Man sees woman. Man evaluates woman as FD date. Man gets
shot down.

Woman sees man. Woman evaluates man as FD date. Woman
decides she’d rather go with her best friend.

Imagine going to the FD ticket table and asking about a stag
ticket.

“Virginia,” the woman at the table shouts across the room.
“This one wants a stag ticket. What’s our policy?"

The eyes of every other person in the room are boring into your
skull. You don’t have a date. You are a'loser. " ‘ ‘ ' 

Ah, thejoys of the FD season. S" “7"”"'”“A" "'1" O A H

So, do you have a date yet?

Chill out. We don't either.

Make a run

The border just got closer.

At long last, Taco Bell, the icon of fast “Mexican” food, has
announced plans for a Lexington outlet, where all W&L students
will be able to drown their taste buds in hot —— or mild — picante
sauce.

We have just three words.

Gracias a Dios.

Quote of the Week

‘I love tenure because I can be a lousy teacher and still know I’ m
getting paid next week.
—— Journalism Professor Hampden H. Smith

   
     
   
   
   

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 1 1, 1993

 

gag  was .. .

.r’;:r.. SEE year: 1% Htriaarls

Arlb Katee your FWK 85-i€I".;‘{‘i",l'314't{<3,S", ,
A929 A seas-
garoc-2'£ ?<’:>9t€ 0 ,

Radio waves create Third House

WASHINGTON —— Call me crazy
as Ross Perot, but long ago I had this
fantasy about a new Third House of
Congress.

Unlike the Senate and the House of
Representatives, there would be no
elections to this new “People's Body.”

send troops to Bosnia was somewhat
sharper.”

You bet it would be. Anyway, be-
fore I go any further with this, let me
happily announce that my long-ago
fantasy has come true. With no help
from the Founding Fathers, the Ameri-

 
 
 
   

The only en- can people
trance re- have cre-
quirement CHRISTQPHER ated this
would be a wonderful
peculiar MATTHEWS delibera-
dress code. . , tive body
Whatlhadin Tribune Media of their
mind —— Services own: call-
please stay in radio.

with me a Wantto

moment on this — were those raffish
costumes we remember from movie
classics like “A Tale of Two Cities.”

If you want to talk like a revolution-
ary, I figured, it would be fair to make
you ‘dress like one.

Actually, the proposed late-l8th
century dress code would serve two
practical purposes: 1) it would limit
attendance to what I am sure would
quickly become the No. 1 tourist at-

. traction in Washington _to those who _
I were truly passionate; 2) it would’
i create some marvelous videotape for

the eveningnetworknews.Irnagine how,
we'd all sit each evening through the
narcoleptie hum of Senators Mitchell,
Sasser and Byrd just to catch that day’s
pageantry from the Peoplc’s Body.
“Elsewhere on Capitol Hill, reac-
tion to President Clinton's decision to

sound off on the topic de jour? Add
your motley voice to the charcoal grey
of the U.S. Senate, the latest yodeling
of Ohio Congressman Jim Traficant?
Your ticket of admission sits as near as
the handiest telephone. Want to send
Zoe Baird to the guillotine? Keep gays
outofthe military—-orletthem in? No
election is required. No dress code.
The number is . . . And don't think the
other houses of Congress aren’t listen-
. ing to this new “*Peoplc’s Body” of the
airwaves. ~  V
“It seems to me that one of the
messages of the l992presidential cam-
paign,” Republican leader Bob Dole
said on the Senate floor last week, “is
that the people have finally ﬁgured out
how to penetrate the steel curtain that
has too long surrounded presidential
campaigns. Voters voted for access,

by picking up the phone, turning on
theirradios and TVs and, in some cases,
talking directly to the candidates.”
Dole, himself a grandmaster of the
sarcastic sound-off, pointed out that
not everybody likes what they hear out
there. The backers of Bill Clinton

cheered, he said, when the Democratic I

candidate successfully used programs
like “Larry King Live” to win the elec-
tion. Now, when the radio waves reso-
nate with a nastier attitude toward their
man, Clintonophiles take a different
view of call-in. Last year, talk radio
and television represented a “hi gh-tech
breakthrough.” This year, the airwaves’
action over gays in the military is dis-
missed as “a bunch of radio windbags
rallying an audience of kooks.”

Fair enough. But there’s a differ-
ence between using radio and TV call-
in programs to communicate with the
people, even as a sounding board. It’s
another to think that those calling in
constitute a random sample of Ameri-
can opinion. ACNN-Gallup poll asked
people if they approve of ending the
ban on gays in-the service. Forty-three
percent said they did,»5O percent said-
they didn't. ANewsweek poll showed
the public tilting the other way: 53
percent said homosexuals should be
able to serve, 42 percent said they
shouldn't.

Does this closeness of opinion reg-
ister in the raging call-in lines? I doubt
ll.

Still, the power of this new, elec-

tronic Third House of Congress is pro-
viding a helpful reality check for the

older two. up _

Case in point: Zoe Baird’s nomina-
tion to be the country’s chief law en-
forcement official was a sure pre—inau—
gural bet. That’s before the call-in
phones started screaming, “Off with
her head!” I

And what about Iran-gate? Eighl
years ago, Ronald Reagan sat in the
Oval Office, cheerily trail-bossing his
plan to sell arms to Iran in exchange for
release of our hostages held in Leba-
non. How did the “Great Communica-
tor” find himself so isolated from man-
on—the-street feelings about such a hug
miliating, suicidal payoff‘?

In his about-to-be-published mem-
oirs, George Shultz offers a clue.
Reagan, his secretary of state surmised,
convinced himself that, paying tribute
to American—hating terrorists somehow
squared with American honor. Once‘,
Reagan had this “script” of his com-
mitted to memory, Shultz believes, he
was a prisoner of his own disastrous

. COUISC.

We can only speculate what the. F

' callers to Larry King or Rush Limbaugh

would have said about this “script.’.’.
But what if word of the anns-for-hos-
tages deal had leaked out beforethe
fact? It's a good bet the telephone lines
would have sizzled and Ronald Reagan
could have been saved from catastro-
phe.

© 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc. ' .

Administration slides away from promises

‘ of the Office of "

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Grcgory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulatibn Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not ieﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON — In his first radio address from
the Oval Office, President Clinton said that “for the
last 12 years our leaders haven’t completely leveled
with us.” Make that 13.

Clinton and his team, who used the transition to
repudiate or blur campaign premises, have used their

become a promise that the tax increase on the middle
class will come after the increase on the wealthy.
Sympathetic news reports say Clinton has “dis-
covered” that there are not enough wealthy people to
pay the govemment’s expenses. Time out.
Is he or is he not the intellectual “policy wonk,”

first weeks inpower - the voracious reader of
to slide away from data, the unsleeping stu-
the most important GEORGE WILL dent of American soci-
pledge madeduring . etythathyperventilating
the transition. In Washington Post journalists have de-

his confirmation
hearing as director

 

Writers Group

scribed? If he is just
discovering that the

Management and Budget, Leon Panetta endorsed a
deficit reduction ratio of two-thirds spending cuts to
one-third tax increases. “Unrealistic” is now the
word from Panctta’s former Democratic colleagues
in Congress. A realistic guess may be that the ratio
of tax dollars raised by tax increases to dollars cut
from spending will be at least 10 to one.

A pitched battle, we are told, rages within the
administration between two factions, one wanting
tax increases to cut the deficit, the other wanting
spending to stimulate the economy. The predictable
compromise will be: Taxes up, spending up, the
deficit up.

The economy is growing; unemployment, which
never got as high in the recent recession as in many
others, is falling; productivity growth in 1992 was at

_ a 20-year high; and there is the stimulus of a $320

billion deﬁcit.

Yet the administration wants another $31 billion
stimulus for the $6 trillion economy. Why? That is
what “New Democrats,” like old ones, do: They try
to micromanage an economy moved by billions of
private decisions daily.

The promise of a rniddle-class tax cut has been
supplanted by a search for slightly disguised ways of
raising taxes on the middle class, as with an energy
tax. Clinton says: “Before Iask working Americans
to work harder and pay more, I will ask the economic
elite . . .” The operative word is “before.” The
campaign promise of a middle—class tax cut has

middle class has most
of the money in America, a reassessment of him is
called for.

hotly controversial, will be a party document from
the start. Not smart.

The loudly trumpeted first fruit of Democratic’
hegemony over both political branches of the gov-
emment is the Family and Medical Leave Act. This
is an cxampleof what can be called “mandate liber-
alism”: If the government is strapped for funds,
make the private sector spend. It must have a
depressing effect on job creation (especially the
hiring of young women). Firms covered by the ac?
must pay the full health insurance costs of on-leave
workers, as well as the costs of any temporary
replacement workers hired until the regular workers
return from leave (up to 12 weeks annually, which
can be taken intermittently).

And this act probably is just the thin edge of an

Another reputation that has risen high without
much ballastofevidenee may have
to be revised. Mrs.Clinton maybe
as prodigiously intelligent and
competent as numerous news re-
ports say. But so far she has been
conspicuously involved in two
matters, neither of which is reas-
suring.

One was —- is ——- the personnel
selection process that has been so
ludicrously skewed by ethnic, ra-
cial and sexual quotas. (This pro-
duced the several train wrecks in-
volving the office of attorney gen-
eral.) The other is health care
reform, the substance of which is
a long way off but the merchandis-
ing of it is already a substantial
mistake.

The administration —- mean-
ing, we must in this case assume,
Mrs. Clinton — has decided that
the Democratic National Commit-
tee will raise money for a staff to
coordinate a campaign for the plan, when there is a Those who promised
plan. pletcly level with us.

So the plan, which is certain to be complex and

Congress may next man-
date that family and medi-
cal leaves be paid. Al-
ready there are “fairness”
complaints: This year’s
act is “unfair” to those
who can’t afford to take
unpaidleaves. Mandated
paid leave is probably
what Rep. Maxine Waters
(D-Calif.) envisions when
she says, cryptically, that
this year’s act begins “a
chain ofnewpossibilities.”

4

enormous wedge. Congress may next mandate tha?

family and medical leaves be
paid. Already there are “fair-
ness” complaints: This year’s
act is “unfair” to those who
can’t afford to take unpaid
leaves. Mandated paid leave
is probably what Rep. MaxineQ
Waters (D-Calif.) envisions
when she says, cryptically, that
this year’s act begins “a chain
of new possibilities.” When
Clinton was asked about man-
dating paid leave, he said, omi-
nously, “Let’s take this one.
step at a time.” Translation:
Unpaid leave is just the first
step.

Critics say the
administration's early actions
show that it lacks sufficient
adult supervision. Actually, it .
is off to a ﬂying start at fulfill-
ing the traditional destinies of
old-fashioned Democrats.
‘new Democrats” didn't com-

© 1993 Washington Post Writers Group

LETTERS "
Student praises Sally Mann feature
Sally Mann’s work can no more be Garden °f Ede“ than anﬁhing 5159- A judge such a delicate issue? 0

To the Editor,

I am appalled to see that so few of
you can distinguish between art and
pornography! According to Webster’s
Dictionary, pornography is obscene lit-
erature, photographs, paintings, etc. in-
tended to cause sexual excitement.
Madonna and some of today’s pop
artists could be termed pomographic.
Do we attempt to discourage them?

called pornographic than can Greek
statues. (I assume most W&L students
know that these statues are of nudes.)
Nudity does NOT necessarily mean
pornographic; in fact, artists through-
out history have reveled in the beauty
of the human form an natural. Sally
Mann’s photos portray the innocence
of childhood. They are more about the

Yes, I suppose one COULD say
Sally is to an extent using her children.
This is however another issue, and one
which in my view is entirely a private
affair.

For those who have expressed the
belief that these photos are detrimental
to the children, I have one question: Do
you know the family well enough to

In any case, the issue here is one of
art or pornography as Nikki Hodurski
put it. Are her photos art? Yes, in fact
they show considerable talent and de-
serve recognition not seem. I applaud
the Phi for its efforts to support a local
artist.

Kathryn Noel Barbour, ’93

 

heﬁing-tum Phi, February 11, 1993

l

‘ o the Editor:

On Jan. 12, 1993, I wrote a short
etter to The Ring-tum Phi which ex-
ressed my displeasure with the cur-
en attitude of the left wing at Wash-
.4 gton and Lee. While this subject

atter may sound quite controversial
4 d“touchy,” it actually was not. The
xplicit purpose of my letter was to
v hastise those people who tore down

structive and intellectual campus but
my pleasurable outlook soon turned
downward when I received a threaten-
ing letter in my mailbox on Jan. 25,
1993, four days after its publication.
F.L.I.N.T —A.L.B chapter#19 sent
me aterrorist style threat informing me
that they “play for keeps” and that they
“will not stop” and that
conservatives should

wrote of his fear for the lack of diver-
sity on campus. In the wake of this
“horriﬁc” episode, I must agree with
his message and take it one step for-
ward. Not only do we have a lack of
intellectual and cultural diversity, but
we have a lack of desire to change the
situation.

- The left wing is

‘ OPINION

Republican receives threatening letter

comer, watching my every move, wait-
ing for their opportunity to pounce?
In addition to federal responsibili-
ties, I feel that I have social duties as
well. Through some close friends of
mine in conservative circles, this epi-
sode may be publicized in several na-
tional magazines. Due to the recent
trend of liberal movements on college
campuses, many newspapers and maga-

Kathekon

Kathekon, W&L’s student

 

Needed

Dance choreographer for spring
term musical production at the
Lenfest Center. Questions? Call

, _  . 4 supposedly based _ _ alumni association, will accept ap- .
igns ‘of the College Republicans of hewat-e_ Thetette, was    3 . upon progression and zines like the Wall Street Journal love plicatioris for membership begin— Pr0f- Martinez at453'3002 0r 453'
, zsiéhington and Lee University. Ifo- not wntten but’ rather,  . . hf  i ,-egg change but recent to hear of stories and scandals such as rung Friday. Kathekon member- 3005-
' u d my attack with this fact clearly pasted together with ‘  events have proven to this to report to the nation. ship is open to rising juniors and
ttated and I explained my Contempt for letters from newspa- qt ,.,.,__. wd t,-5  me that some rnern- Once in a while, everyone reaches a seniors. Applications will be avail-
those people who would sink to such pets_ntagaz;nes,etc_ tn ,  V -1 . W.’ bers of the hbetai so- point of ultimate resolution. A point able at the Alumni Office and out-
‘juvenile tactics” in order to oppress order to try to attain ""- “l "C “Q 3' ciety have lost sight whereallviewsandvisions,allthoughts sideCarolCalkins’off"ice;thedead- S 
: other viewpoint. I made the argu- some 50,-t offeat-fult-C- *5 ‘ms; 3  ._ of their own doctrine and feelings, allpleasures and disgusts line for applications is March 5. p
rnentthat theliberal Contingent like-5 t0 sporise from me. Un— -- I "i . 1 .. _ ' _ .- and of the mission of come into focus. This point brings Sign-up sheets for interviews will In celebration of Black History
‘ride themselves upon tolerance and fortunately for  timéﬁmigimas’ our nation. about different responses in each per- be available in the University Cen- Month, Ms. Faye Wattleton, former
derstanding, when they do not have 1:'_L.1_N_T’ their at-  .3.-,.ng;s _,~t-,-to no Icould ramble for— son,but the end resultshould alwaysbe ter. president of Plarmed Parenthood,
enough faith in their own beliefs to tempt at fear only '=' i " '7" everabouttherernorse progress. will speak Feb. 24 at 8 p.m. in Lee
ﬁeeept 3 Challenge Of their th°“8ht5- prompted anger and s§g1?“.__ t \ < and pity I feel for the On Jan. 25 1 realized that many Chapel.
NOW. I hoped that my letter had ex‘ disgust. I grew angry it " F.L,I,N,T organiza- actions couldcauseregression butlam  t
Pressed 3 eleer 0Pir1i0h based “Port as I read each passage tion but I have a dif- determined to Dre-Vent Such an CataS- S

thought, contemplation, and that it

’ could appeal to an audience with the

sanQe attributes. Upon its publication,

' a week after its submission mind you,

several people approached me on the
_Hill and at parties to thank me for

 

of the pasted parable
and thought that some
person is actually ignorant enough to
threaten another. I grew disgusted as I
looked beyond the words and realized
that there are citizens of Washington

ferent message to
peddle. After show-
ing the threatening letter to a few of my
colleagues, they advised me to contact
the post office and other federal au-
thorities. The reason is that sending

trophe. F.L.I.N.T will have to learn
about honor and true progress one way
or the other. I hope it takes the high
road and admits to its heinous act of
ignorance.

Brown/Burgundy Ann Taylor
Suede jacket with a hood. If found
please call Lisa at 464-3662.

Alumni Job

Seniors who wish to be consid-
ered for W&L’s Alumni Staff As-

ehallehgirrg the “5elf‘Pr°elairhed 0m‘ and Lee who do not possess enough threats via mail isafederal offense and Sincerely.  '    sociate position in 1993-94 should
r1iP0ter1t liberal m0Verher1t" Of the eel‘ intellect, enoughpride,orenough faith, punishable by law. I mean, how am 1 Paul E. Wright. ’95 g' a apply by March 1. Graduating se- i
leg 50eiet)’- At this P°iht 1telt°Pti' to accept the other viewpoints of this supposed to feel safe knowing that Press Secretary and Spokesman springterrn oourseofferings will niors should submitaletter ofapp1i—

I mis '0 about the future Of Sueh 3 e°rt‘ world. In a past Phi, Evan Knisley F.L.I.N.Tmaybelurking around every College Republicans be on the Liberty “gopher” by Fri- Cation and resume to James Farrar

.4"

, Student lauds Lynch

To the Editor:

‘ Good teaching is not telling students what
to ﬂlink about literature. Rather, it is causing
students to respond to literature and help them
discover what they themselves think. It is just
such teaching which will be lost with the pass-

‘ ing of John Lynch from the face of Washington

and Lee University.

Ihave known the teaching of this man for the
shckt period of six weeks. But in that time I
have come to experience stimulating work in its
finest hour. It is, as I have said, teaching which

causes students to respond to literature so that.

they might form their own opinions and ideas as
they read. In our Victorian Thought class we
have had wonderful discussions and arguments.
Wpdo not sit as machines and transcribe words
to a page in a process devoid of creative thought

and imagination. In this class we can come

together and be human  talking about how we
feel and what we see. This is an experience
which I appreciate fully with every class and
will value far beyond my days at W&L.

‘As well, let me say that I have come to know
few teachers whose loyalty and allegiance to
his students is so visible. Both in word and deed
John Lynch has made clear that above all things

he is here for the students. It has been said that: 2
Washington and Lee is a,‘.‘teaching institution” —
whosetmission focuses on the students.’ It is I 
mqde clear in the Mission Statement: “The-

University recognizes teaching as its central

1 function. It believes that the personal associa-

’ Bob Dunlap and his concessions staff, and finally to
the spectators who came out in droves to show their

tion of its students with a highly qualified and
motivated faculty holds the greatest promiseof
inspiring in them a respect and thirst for knowl-
edge that will continue throughout their lives.”
If such things be so, then I can think of no better
place for John Lynch.

However, we have found out that Professor
Lynch will be leaving us at the end of this year
due to circumstances beyond his, or our, con-
trol. I am sorry for this. But I do not feel so
sorry for myself as I do for the classes of
students to come, who will not have the oppor-
tunity to experience his teaching. However,
lcnowing of this loss has made it a difficult time
for the many students who have come to know
Professor Lynch. The words of William
Wordsworth might be welcomed in the day
when we look back upon our days with Lynch:
“Though nothing can bring back the hour / Of
splendour in the grass, of glory in the ﬂower; /
We will grieve not, rather find / Strength in
what remains behind; /In the primal sympathy
/ Which having been must ever be; / In the
soothing thoughts that spring / Out of human
suffering  ”

Dr. Sidney Coulling, one of the great teach-
ers of this university, chose John Lynch for a
reason. Because, like himself, he is above all

.things..I..;a.teacher. 

’ Respectfully,

Robert H. Wilson, ’93

ACLU raises questions

To the Editor:

I was bemused to read in “Civil Liberties,” the national
newsletter of the ACLU, that the student government of Wash-
ington & Lee had “distinguished” itself by refusing to fund a
campus chapter of the ACLU on the grounds of it being “too
controversial.” If I recall correctly, the student government has
the discretion to fund or not to fund campus organizations from
moneys involuntarily conscripted from the student body as
activities fees.

As aproud member of the Virginia ACLU and former director
thereof, I must say I don’t know quite how to feel about the
matter. On one hand, it is par for the course if the ACLU fails to
receive subsidy from any “govemment,” and that is probably for
the best. “Govemment” subsidy of the ACLU seems an oxymo-
ron.
On the other hand, I am thankful that my tenure at W&L Law
School in the early '70s opened my eyes andgenabled me to see
beyond the end of my ignorant, sheltered, privileged nose to
comprehend how our society and its privileged “mainstream”
few (the dominant culture represented at'W&L) have systemati-
cally and continually deprived the iconoclasts, the different and
the other “wogs” of this planet of their civil liberties, with nary
a thought about the ultimate jeopardy to their own civil liberties
thereby.

If the ACLU is “too controversial” for W&L student govem-
ment, that is not the ACLU’s problem. It will get whatever
money itneeds from other sources, to be sure; perhaps from some
of us “controversial” alumni (in lieu of the Annual Fund).

_ t _The, more important question is, how is _th_e_, privileged, yet. 8
pathetic hierarchy of the,W&L student body going to get enlight-

enment?

H. Watkins _Ellerson, ’73L

SAMS advisor, EC comment on Lip Synch

To the Editor:

«Sincere appreciation and thanks are extended to
all who participated in the 1993 Lip Synch Contest;

ham and John, and the poster girls.

QThehltS to the judges Who endured the long Jerry Darrell To the Washington and Lee Community:
evening. to Randolf Hare and his crew at B&G who SAMS Advisor The White Book states “[t]he Honor System at -
Were Outstanding in their e°°Per3ti°h ih Setthtg “P Washington and Lee is based on the fundamental    B  N  
the Pavilion, to Mike Young and his security staff, To the Editor: principal that a spirit of trust pervades all aspects of

support of the event.

Jvlost importantly, kudos go to Ashley Myler,
Elise
Hagensen, Beth Provanzana and Talley Woolley.
These young women worked diligently, beginning
last spring, in planning this year’s event, our most
successful to date. We surpassed our financial goal
_ with $4300 in gross proceeds. Revenue after ex-
pegses will be donated to the National Multiple

SAMS chairperson and her committee:

Sclerosis Society and this year, for the first time,
shared with the Rockbridge Area Relief Association

(RARA) .

In response to the article appearing in the Jan. 28
issue of The Ring-tum Phi: yes, there were isolated
incidents of student misconduct and yes, it was
unfortunate that some students chose to look for
ways to gain access to the Pavilion without paying
admission. However, these incidents paled in com-
parison to the 95 percent of student spectators and
volunteers who conducted themselves in the “true
spirit of W&L.” The event was a complete success:
the committee accomplished all of its goals, most
everyone had a great time and W&L students made

a generous contribution to two worthwhile charities.
Plans for next year’s Lip Synch are already underway
to correct any deficiencies that may have occurred

student life.” The sucess of the Lip Synch contest is
marred by the fact that literally hundreds of people
chose to enter without paying. Whether through
willful ignorance or outright deceit, taking advan-
tage of relaxed security at such an event is wrong.
Our community of trust contemplates an environ-
ment, academic and social, where no unnecessary
rules exist. Let us not jeopardize this privilege by
such thoughtless acts.

The Executive Committee

Interviews and Photos
By Darran Winslow

TALKBACK

day morning. Printed copies will be
available at the Registrar’s Office
beginning Feb. 19. Spring term
registration runs from February 22
at 8:30 a.m. to Feb. 25 at 4:30 p.m.
Students studying abroad or off
campus must register with the
Registrar’s Office to receive proper
credit.

Democrats

College Democrats will meet
Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the University
Center game room.

’93 Project

The Class of ’93 Senior Pledge
Project Committee is now forming.
Interested? Call Annie at464-6266.

Tournament ,

Scholarship Fund will be held Feb.
20 at 1:30 p.m. in the Maury River
Middle School Cafeteria. Just $5 to
play, and prizes include free meals
at area restaurants. For more infor-
mation, contact Pat Knick at 463-
3129.

ATrivial Pursuittoumamentto   I  ’
beneﬁt the Rockbridge-Lexington ' '

in the Alumni Office. A personal
interview for each applicant will be
required.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe sober ride. Live drive
operates Friday and Saturday from
10p.m.to2a.m. We're also looking
for volunteers to help drive. If inter-
ested call Melissa or less at 464-
4017.

Display

The Minority Student Associa-
tion, the Black Law Student Asso-
ciation and the American Civil Lib-
erties Union remember the life of
Thurgood Marshall, 1908-1993. See
the front University Library display
case.

“.5

The Phl
The Phi is looking forabi-weekly
humorcolumnist. If you can make
the campus laugh, submit a sample
of your writing to the Phi office,
room 208 in the University Center.

Two W&L students, who came before the Student Conduct Committee,
were found in violation of university standards. The following sanctions
were imposed: One student must serve three hours of community service
and is on conduct probation for the remainder of the term; the other student
involved must serve six hours of community service and is on conduct
probation for the rcmziindcr of the term.

to the 150 Performers _(25 acts)» the Sttldent V0ll-In‘ Finally, “put your hands together” for the Minor- this year- General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar
. teers who worked security, madedecorations,worked ity students Association, who won this year's cotn-
concessions, provided publicity, shot the video, petition with their crowd-p]easing performance of Jerry Darrell
worked the spotlight, the masters-of-ceremony Gra- sir Mi x-a-Lot’s “Baby Got Back,” SAMS Advisor

What do you want for Valentine’s Day?

 

Tom Garber, ’9S, Waynesboro, Va.

Catherine Costantino, ’96, Athens, Ga. and Meg Kinder, ’96, Columbia,
SC. — “For our sorority sisters to love us as much as we love them."

Jon Lakamp, ’96, Cincinnatti, Ohio Jeff Brooks, ’93, Danbury, Conn.
— “I want a rich old man with a weak — “A handful of those candy hearts —“All Iwant is for people throughout
heart.” with those really cool messages.” the world to come together and love

_ . one another.”

. Courtney Tucker,’96,Roanoke,Va. ,
—— “Yeah, I want world peace like

Jeff, but can I get a handful of those
really neat candy hearts too.”

 

 

 
 

FEATURES

  
   
 
  
  
 
   
  

 

  
   
 
  
  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 1 1 , 1993

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

c I d c '
écnoss 1
1 ontort
5 Cinema .
employee
10 Prickle j
14 Wlnglike '
15 Weather word . '
16 A Great Lake 
17 withered 5
18 Bender 1,
19 Flavoring plant 
20 Vlgaterslszkellffl 
22 " won a" s 
one ‘ . '“
24 Relative . 5
25 MacLaIne role 0 ,,
26 Fight
29 lntroduction «
33 Actor Flynn g
34 Launder "
35 Operated
36 Gelatinous
3 subgtance .
3; E3?“ of money By SARAH GILBERT imoailgiersacaicgciasllyffloud noise. I hate mrémother lonely man was more ma- star“. I ,, F
3% ll;‘T$u::ick|Y Phi Smff Wm“ Other menwere more demandin “I like '1 b t I’ 1 k‘ f It would beat a‘ sh logge some-
41 F“ O 19% mm Mm saw” me “ ,, , 8- _l , _u m not 00 mg or- where, snowed in with Jodie Foster,”
_ - » uz/11/93 Iwantacar, seniorHenn Moyer ward to it this year” the freshman Mo ‘d
42 lSh°"'“:(', h°‘P°'5 Amgh" R°’°"°d thousand loves to you said “Mine is fal1- said 1]’? Sal I 11 b f
44 nvent - . . . ' - ey can’t a e per ect.
45 Rock 0, tab, 10 pmce of , _ from me—whzch is very mg apart. ‘ Th ~ h .
45 Book 1; seed coming one in return‘ ,1. 0 y 0 l a h 0 W 6 V C r , {)6 havi :11}, or is grossly unromantic .
47 lrrigates 1 Irritate ,, . . ~
50 Immature 13 Endless band . “George G°1’d°h»_ Lord C8mf)’- seemed to be Get him something he doesn’t li.ke
54 Minced can 21 Time of calm Byron in a letter to Augusta Leigh. A n o t h er more excited for Valentine’s D I
55 In accord 23 "—- for All It sometimes seems that nearly all senior had an bo F b u 1 - ﬂy‘ .
57 3*8‘°"‘s‘° 59350"-5" love Poetry is written from men to evenm ‘m a U1 C m- - Mon “Ike [0 getabox Ofcandy",
58 Humdinger 25 Peace goddess A d . . . . Ore’ ‘ ary 14. said the sophomore. “It’s so tradi- 1
59 Swami 26 Stubble W0lh6n- 11 It is traditionally the probable re- “I love it! tionalanditdoesn’tshowan tho ht”
60 Juice-filled fruit 27 Contend women who are the focus of quest. 1 mink ii is [h S . y "g '
61 Profound 23 lgalk neaviiy» Valentine’s Day. “1 want 3 great nealest thing 3 “Ioane were rrtiorciduefct. J
62 B ild 2 onspires . . . on wan a iss rom II
63 R59, In 30 Bear But _what about themen? What do big kiss from _Vanna the sophomore said. Dawson,” a senior said ere y‘
France 31 Knight's lhby lhlhk Of this holiday? What do While, ’ he said. “Sometimes it’s sad “I don’t wantt ‘ t. h’ ”
Weapon they want to receive from their speci When it came to buyinga though because my sig’ other said 0 ge not mg’ an-
DOWN 32 ceased - . _ » , ' - '
1 A state: abbr. 34 Small bottle Someone? . ' gm’ however’ the same semor mﬁcam mher ‘5 at home-” N0‘-hi“8i3"’I-g°0den°“8h f0TY0U?
2 Toward shelter 37 Foolproof Ohb freshman had 8 Very Simple Whl? demanded a car seemed very If the girlfriend wasn’tat home If a woman really wants to get on
3 — avls 38 Amicable. r uest. ' ' to be ' ' ' - - ’ -
4 Ramorlal 40 supernova’ 8.9. eq“A date All I wam is a date ” he Wl “llnﬁould lzelgéipilgyeggnerous. d gfeyoufhad a girlfriend, if this were the the bad side of her man, a freshman , .
creams 41 The app“, ,,_g_ _d “I d -, k f ” . _ ' yway outan sto at possible worlds,how would provided a clue. 3 ‘
5 Suave 43 Spent 531 - 0“ ‘as 0' m"°h- _ _ Selsbmelhlhg <=XP€hS1Vsi“é*< d- 6 you spend Va1entme’s Day? “I don’t want to get hate mail ” he '
6 Holy one 44 Not open 48 Chills and iever 52 Halt Most men seem to have similarly “It wouldn’t be v ' ‘ Most women would be im ressed sa'd ’
7 Posterior 46 Old garment 49 Untrue story 53 \.Nide-mouthed unpretentious jdeaS_ something She W y W-Lh the cremivit of m p 1B‘ . . . ,
3 3°” “bl 47 ”""°» '" 3 5° °“'P W9 ‘‘I would like a sin Ie rose and a with bee r ‘ ‘   y ~ “'3 me"-' - "‘ ‘M ‘S V“'°“““° 3 Day’
9 Bakery item way 51 Eye part 56 Salt Hersheys Kiss n a 3 d m I .[ ,, “Se ° hld Wake “Pm lhemommgm The day for lovers and lovees to
g _ 0 car a says I . ” tic eta 'th k’ f - - .
nothing but ‘I love you’,” one sopho- Are all wome n Igloi/“dag, svalid ?helssS(>;;l(i)(T :i:i?:t;gerd§i[::£:Csr§iiii:ss'  *
0 - o more said. ’ - ’ ’
Fraternity membership dwindles Another freshman only wanted a a§3d§§33‘oii3?§?J3°$2°§§§ w°i?§3nan.ic word - l ‘
1 V - C39‘ , lhmg Smal! 3‘-“d 1 hard to come by Wf9LsI.l.mriIi)ei,i 
to Owest nufnber In years I don tneed candy, I don’t need representative of as§ d up beside the lire- ways turn to th6,imm0rta] words of .
\ ﬂowers ” he our relationship ” a ‘ Qf cham ‘
_ ,3 » , pagne and John Keats ., 3
50 years ago in the Phi — With practically all the Army enlisted Sam‘ . Just M93‘ °f [.h° °me' ’ and the fbsl is (ahdchebkihe "Q\U
reservists receiving orders to report for active duty, the 17 W&L Somemmg [9 mdmonal gms’ ﬂow  Ehgiish 136- ‘ '5.
fraternities find that their active memberships dwindle to their cheerme up‘ B91" do me" really ‘ “V “k Mhlks Cblhd Pamhehl for ""4
lowest number in years, from 600 students to a low of 320. S o m 6 Day‘ . even more in- A ,,,
would settle Perhaps it depends on w tched onto the spiring writ- ‘
Five years ago in the Phi — President John D. Wilson spends the fall -for practical‘ not thﬁhman m quesnon has - , 6T5)? “If YOU \ V ,
semester of the 1988-89 academic year at Oxford University in ﬂy}. cargo e.r' . .  -- 9° 3 “’‘.’“I‘.1 be 3 should eve’ ‘:7 ¢/ ‘W-
England on an administrative leave granted by the university's I w§"',§ h .;’° g“'l§‘:d°“dl°5S S°,“‘°‘ ‘"35  Wllh 3 PICDIC.” 3 feelforman at '
board of trustees. During Wilson's absence, John W. Elrod, vice pho W1? too 3’ 05.? ?‘°W . ﬁle holiday’ -2  Probably be Cbld the first sight
president for academic affairs, will serve as acting president. t 6. eﬁhman  S Stupid.‘ It S a waste of a ho!"  ' - What I did f01'
said. Any- day, he said. ‘There must be amuch ior, however, found his you, I am 0
lhlhg that bale‘ "59 0f the d3)/-’’ 14 alone with a movie lost.”

 

      

  
     
        
   

  
     
      

  
 

 

 

   

       
 
  

   
   
  

  

 
 
  

    
 
  

, ~ . . Valley 7/1(wVa€ae 6    4    
Z QPPQ 0*‘     54   ‘ *‘
' 5
/ , ,
é Ladies 1 Shoes Clothin Hardware, Paint and Related Items We 11 make you look good!
g ’ . g Come to us for all of your design needs.
é andAccess0nes 0 en Mon -8 t 830 6 S Ads, ﬂyers, logos, résumés, faxes, and quick copies.
Z EZiia3"i3'n".§3'i 24450 (7°3)4°3‘593° Ep ' a ' '. am" pm’ Un' 1-5 p'm' E PHONE: 463-1712 - FAX #: 463-6918 Q .
/ - Nelson St-9 Lexington 463‘2186 1.7.5 w. NELSON ST. -LEhXlNGI‘ON_ VIRGINIA- ACROSS FROM'I‘l-IEPOST OFHCE
Hello, Friends... : _. _
Talkln' about getting down to work, ‘bout rolling up our sleeves and pasting .
:ZEI;2jwi.%°,%':?:3:3:..1."J‘f..l.‘:.?$.‘iIf'7:é‘$l.‘:’$2S23;::L'::;':1’,':.?.$':l: § B°"de“ C°mm°hs C°hd0 E 3.»! W” W35.“   
° "“°‘‘°“°''‘"°''‘'i’‘¢3,I£m'.L‘E.::i.:,‘:‘:?.fi',}i,‘:’2J.§fZ.‘.§LZ?.§§..“.!r:,'53,*l?,':i_ » For Sale By Owner E * ‘.
this house cidthought up bvihe creative p9°D|eoHhe new Nexus. ucsa. Two Bedroom Two bath Living 0 D. . 1* ’ V
, , 1' om, mmg room,

Dance Class for FD i Kitchen, Utility room, Storage area, stove, refrig., E HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS A
7-8 p.m. & 8-9 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge on Feb_ 24th, it washer/dryer, microwave, Central heat & air, wall to E Jewelry & Watch repairs, Eh8T3V1h8 l
(Frank Rupus - Helping stundents get ready for FD For over 10 years!) i Wall carpeting, no garage. tax. STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT ~
355-00 Pb? Person» Pay 1 hbura stay 23 §_ Call 463-4634 or 615-373-2095 3 11W- Nelson Street Robby Jones” =
.- .. .  - - -- ~ -.  - .......   "  ;.'.'_;.'_ LcX1ngt°n»Virsinia 24450 <703> 463-2022 ;

9 ' r 6 -we I

” W&L Art W  

  1‘ ¢  1870 Washington College Diploma 0 I
signed “RE. Lee”, ‘§
Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m. h h signatures}; J i
Fitz Le .E. Le , .

All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at M. Miigey C John Letitia: ,

Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m All-U-Can Eat $4 99 Edward Valentme In

W d esd  _ _ ° _ ' W&L Copperplate, hand-colored '

4 e n ay ight BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable Wm‘ §‘§1j‘,§,-“Er-eL,§§; fggfgggggfn ah

1/2 Rack-  Whole rack-  ﬂ Mary and George Washington pieces ,‘

V Saturday Night Prime Rib . ' H‘ <

Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 Truck st I  “J U  ;

Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day. up  l   i

4 IIIIIBS  on R0llt€ 11 4 East Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday :1

We accept Visa, Mastercard Choice, & Shell L°x1ng"°h- VA 24450 10 am. - 5:30 p.m. . 

 _ _  ____________ __ kkwos) 464-6464 J

qudiotmnics Do You Want VISA & Mastercard Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ti.i>LAii-iAi1'iiii—.F_L 35313‘; 
AUDIO - VIDEO - cm snazeo J 
 ,,.,, ....$.2:3:.i°;:.:::.::‘:“,:.“:.2.ii.:cr.."i°::.i°°.:§:::s.°.2: . YES: lwantVlSA®/MAsTERCARD®Ci-edit : 

IADCOM L. It s..“I .* VEN - ' .
 iriiie °   : ;=;;,ds~ E,n;*°s=d,',:;;:,: 5 Wm-100% mi"-dab'= "mt : ’ 
:g:ToN gg,?NmVE VISA!” and MastcrCard0 the credit cards you I I | T-§
KUPSCH BAZOOKA deserve an§Tr6eed for;‘U|ItI){)!r3“0C;£l:‘§!-~EI'£%l\>]I\l:!'I}w‘MIEN'l‘ 3 NAME ' 

: gf,§g§E;Rg$;°c;g+;P§Lg<;MM EMERGENCY caisH—TicKt-:i_s—Ri:sTnuRA[f:riNsr,: ' ADDRESS | V
3 nepn’ii‘§‘_"Ei'IiSE-i"o°§i'3i%’»f€a‘us§‘c5i?e"e"i¥'i§?i~SEi : cm ' v 2
- we SERVICE MOST BRANDS STATE — ZIP I V 
. MASTERCARD/VISA/DISCOVER ‘ﬂee’ I PHONE -SS” .
(800) 468-6667 6“*"' mm No credit : S[(}NATURE ' ' I
c°<r>:::|::;)i-?::':r?‘gIs::«r}‘o:c)iI 54:7“ V\5”:::?:‘°.“;:‘:_ no security dewsit! ' Norm Maniac-ni is: registered uadcnalk nrnieeiaonni lnlcmltloml. Int; '
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke No: .6005" Approval absolutely guammced so I visa is - gswgredbnundennik d’VlSA us.A. Inc. and VISA inimmionei I
i ‘ ‘°°°" °"‘““""“"' I '

 

    
 
    
    
  
  
  
     
 
    
 
  
  
   
  
  
      
 

Q

Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1993

 .l'l3"lS Teeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

i‘ ’ REDUCED PRICE
5 BONELESS CENTER-CUT

PORK CHOPS E

  

   

rirsou-i-ic_>_i.i.v FARMS

"B“<"iitiEiEss
FRYER BREAST... 

cAr.ii=oRmA . DiEr can on
ICEBERG cocA-coi.A
* LETTUCE 2 mm

 ‘Q

 99

LIMIT 3 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE,
PLEASE

  
 
 
  
    
     
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 

  

 

,,l-!ARRlgSTEETER.;‘.e LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
; KING THIN SANDWICH

  59
7»  MCI BREAD .... ..24 oz. LOAF O
 O0

 
     

   
    
   

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE CRANBERRY 2 [

REGISTER to WIN IN -’”"-'5 C°CK7A"-
  ...................... ..48 OZ. 
BAYER 1
‘H O   sEi.Ecr ................. .. 24 Cr.
 SELECTED ELAVORS

RUFFLES POTATO

CHIPS ............. ..5.5-is oz. 099

You Could Win One Of These Fabulous
, Prizes. See Details And Register At The
‘ ‘Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter.

 
Panel takdmissions

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

' genuine concern that what occurs here

     
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
. Accommodations And Game Tickets.

:0 ﬁne Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
, .C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
 Game Tickets 8. Hotel Accommodations.

”_ One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air E
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

0 One Pair Of Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away
In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Coke

sLicED ro ORDER
TURKEY
BREAST

99

IN THE DELI-
BAKERY

LB.

 

Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

 

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

_ ‘VALIJABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON

1.00 or: ' ,§_.o* arr :

I
p-——°-‘~ When You Purchase | |  When You Purchase
"5’;  Any Half Gallon Of I I a‘ Any Gibson I
 Hood Frozen Yogurt .1 Greeting Card Or

   
     
      

 

  
 

5

 

uesday, February I6, I99 . I
ld To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

Prices In This Ad Eliective Wednesday February IO Througso
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None

  

    

F5-='(‘
, W E"; I '

it  Me--— Or Ice Milk Valentine

‘ 43951

T3‘$:?;‘2.“.‘:.‘i.T.’i'>‘;’,’i>Z‘:’.’i.‘i.‘Z." t.‘ii“,§‘§§‘o%T)" M2420 I IZ'§;;%?.ﬂ’¥!pT%%2.°§g§§‘§o?$%‘:O PLU2426 I
."t‘ii‘:"e:.::f:;:‘i ,-.%“§"*'“°”‘° . FROZEN I |tt'.".'"2:sf::;.tfi..;' ““°'* NFSGROCERY I
‘F-ouio~5gAiuEt Hariisteeter G ycoupcgwttuey Hamsfeeter G

‘ 
  .Prices Effective Through February I6, I992

“Washington and Lee University
admits students, awards financial aid,
and administers its academic program
and other programs without regard to
race, sex, religion, color, national or
ethnic origin.”

The accuracy of this statement,
which appears on every W&L admis-
sions application, was the subject of
Tuesday night’s Graham-Lee-Wash-
ington Literary Society panel discus-
sion.

But Dean of Admissions William
Hartog, one of six panel members, said
there is a genuine concern that parts of
the admissions process are unfair.

“When the Board of Trustees de-
cided on coeducation, the one topic on
which they all agreed was that the
transition to co-education should oc-
cur slowly,” Hartog said. “Now that
we’re eight years removed, there is a

is not fair. Men compete against men
and women compete against women
[in the admissions process].”

Hartog said the male-to-female ra-
tio is probably close to 62-38. He called
the ratio a “very, very, sensitive topic,
one that we speak about on adaily level
in the admissions office. There is no
doubt that sex-blind admission would
make for a stronger class.”

Hartog said that if the present class
had been admitted on the basis of a
gender blind policy, the ratio would be

50-50. being a minority.”

The reasons cited for the 60-40 ratio
included the impact of a decreased
number of men on the athletic program
and on the fraternity system

The panel also addressed. the need
for more minorities in the student body.

James Rarnbeau, ’9 1 , ’94L, another
panel member, said that had he gone to
apredominantlyblack college, “I would
have been more of a well-rounded stu-
dent, concentrating on issues other than

  

Photo by Amy French, The Fi’i'ng—tum Phi

James Rambeau, '91, ’94L, and Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid William Hartog serve on a panel Tuesday in the Generals
Headquarters, talking about W&L admissions and campus diversity.

Ram beau said that every black alum-
nus who he contacted about coming
back to W&L had a negative reaction.

Rambeau said that it is important to
get minority students to become inter-
ested in W&L. He said he has noticed
a significant difference in the white
students admitted in recent years.

“They tend to be more open-
minded,” he said. “We must change
from within by bringing in more di-
verse white students.”

‘Foreign Student’ gets go—ahead

in From MOVIE, page 1

the Colonnade, Evans Dining Hall, the old Doremus Pool
and dorm exteriors. The rest of the film will be shot
elsewhere in Virginia, possibly in Richmond, Shaw said.

The movie is based on Phillipe Labro’s semi-autobio-
graphical novel based on his experience as an exchange
student at W&L during the 1950s. Eva Sereny will direct the
movie, which will be in English. Marco Hofschneider
(“Europa, Europa”) will play the lead role, and Robin
Givens (“Boomerang”) will play a black woman with whom
he has an affair.

In December, film crews came to Lexington to scout
possible shooting sites. Shaw said he escorted them around
campus and to nearby sites, including Zollman’s Pavilion.

If the production company decides to film here, Labro

himself might come to W&L, Professor of Journalism John
Jennings said.

“I don’t know if he’ll be here,” Jennings said. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if he did come.”

Shaw said that Labro’s schedule would be the deciding
factor.

“I talked to him a couple of days ago, and he indicated
that he’d like to [come], but he’s very busy,” Shaw said.

Shaw said Labro has not contributed to the writing of the
screenplay but does support it. Shaw said that, since Labro
has directed several films, the author might be interested in
the filming from a director’s standpoint.

Shaw said he contacts the Virginia Film Office almost
daily and hopes to have a definite answer soon.

The movie will be distributed by Universal Studios and
will probably be released this fall or near Christmas, Shaw
said.

Apartment for Rent



$300 per month for the unit.

- Great Location

, Cateringto W&L,Students - Two Bedroom apartment
for rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk
from the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom.

- Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
- Landlord pays for water, including hot water

      
   

   

I Look int‘o<«this
light. Cool, huh?

  

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown, at 463-3013

University Cleaners

$45

FD Special

    
 
   

I have to wear
A TUX?

...No problems!

Has a Wide. selection of
Tuxedos for rent.

  

Needed: Editors and Business Manaers of
University Publications

Positions Available: Editor & Business
Manager of The Ring—tum Phi, Editor &
Business Manager of the Calyx, Editor of
the Ariel, Editor of the Journal of Science,
and Editor of the Political Review.

Letters of Interest for Ring-tum Phi
positions due February 22, 1993;
Interviews — March 1, 1993
Call 463-8581 for details

Letters of Interest for all other -
publications due March 8, 1993;
Interviews — March 15,1993

All letters of interest may be turned into Carol Calkins in the University Center.

    
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

 

 

Last Week:

Bba1l- W&L 58, Lynchburg 57 (5-15)
MSwim—W&L 137,MWC 66 (8-0)
WSwim— MWC 146,W&L 48 (7-3)

Wrstle- 4th at Va. State Champ. (4-5)

PAGE 6

@112 iRittg—tum ilﬁhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK, SWIMMING, WRESTLING

This Week:

Bball- at Roanoke 2/13

Swim- at Radford 2/ 13 (M&W)
Wrestle- at Longwood 2/1 1

IT- at Va. Tech Invit. 2/ 13

FEBRUARY 11, 19b3,

Generals pull off
miracle comeback

By SEAN O’RouRi<r2
Phi Sports Editor

What is it about playing at
Lynchburg and last second wins for the
Generals’ basketball team?

Last year Bob Ehret beat the Hor-
nets on a last-second layup.

This year, Mark Connelly decided
it was his turn to be the hero.

The Generals were in desperate need
of a win, especially an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference win. A loss last
night would have knocked the Gener-
als out of the post-season tournament.

The last time these two met, it was
Anthony Cummings versus the whole

Brading, who immediately goes
crosscourt to Derek Carter.

Six-ﬁve-four-three.

Carter ﬁnds Connelly up the side-
line. Connelly catches the pass just
over halfcourt, takes two dribbles and
launches a long three.

NBC (Nothing But Cotton).

Two-one. Over.

Inamiraculouscomeback,Connelly
single-handedly brings the Generals
back from the brink of elimination. He
sunk two 3-pointers in six seconds.
Generals win 58-57.

Connelly led the Generals with 14
points, followed by Carter with 11.
Ehret and Robert Miggins chipped in
10 apiece.

 

;:""‘<'i«.

em‘? *

W&L team. Last night, it was the same
deal.

Connelly didn’t dwell on the vic-
tory. Instead he looked ahead to the

Cummings jumped all over the Gen-
erals, going 14-for-16 from ﬂoor and
finishing with 30 points. But the Gen-
erals had a secret weapon, the 3-point
shooting skills of Mark Connelly.

W&L trailed the Hornets 56-52 with
about 12 seconds remaining and was
seeing their post-season hopes wind-
ing down with the clock.

Not to fear. Connelly up and hits a
long three off the backboard. 56-55
Hornets.

The Generals quickly foul, and
Lynchburg obliges by sinking only one
of two free throws.

Head coach Verne Canfield calls
timeout and develops the play.

The ball’s inbounded to Bryan

Generals’ possibilities of making the
ODAC Tournament.

“I feel good about these next few
ODAC games,” Connelly said. “I know
we can get to Mennonite.”

The Generals ﬁnish the season with
five more road games, including a
rematch with Eastern Mennonite on
Feb. 17.

Earlier in the week, the Generals
were dealt a heart-wrenching loss by
EMC. The Royals spoiled SeniorNight
for Brading, Bryan Watkins, Ehret and
Darren Johnson.

W&L took a 20-8 lead halfway
through the first. The team saw the lead
evaporate, and a 7-0 rim in the second
solidiﬁed the Rovals’ win.

Th ing-tu PI

4 Poto by Jameson Leonardi,
men's swimming meets have seen
Generals’ swimmers, all by their lonesome. With only one dual
meet left, W&L has yet to see their unbeaten mark blemished.

 

This is how spectators at

Injuries plague W&L wrestling

By MARK SAPPENFIELD
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L wrestling campaign is
fast coming to a close. One dual meet
remains for the team, and the focus has
clearly shifted from the regular season
to the post-season NCAA wrestling
tournament.

Sophomores Eric Shirley and Adam
Williams, and freshmen Rob Sands
and Colin Looney all took second

place at last weekend’s Virginia State
Tournament.

In the semi-final match of the state
tournament, Looney sprained his knee.
His was able to ﬁnish out the match for
the win, but could not continue in the
tourney. He defaulted the ﬁnal and
cannot wrestle for the remainder of the
season.

Head coach Gary Franke said
Looney’s injury could be a major fac-
tor in upcoming action.

Swimmers ready C  
for national meets

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s swimming team raised
their record to 8-0 on the season by
winning their 13th straight meet Satur-
day over Mary Washington College.
The women fell to MWC that day, but
defeated Hollins College Thursday for
their 16th consecutive Old Dominion
Athletic Conference meet victory.

The men took first in eight of the
eleven races in the 137-66 win. In fact,
W&L held the top two spots seven
times.

Freshman Justin Dardani won twice,
while the Generals also picked up wins
from senior Andrew Pearson and
sophomores Roland Chase and John
Rowe.

Dardani won the 200 and 500-
freestyles. Pearson took the 50-
freestyle, while Sears touched first in

“There’s no one else there, so we’ll
forfeit that weight class. His knee in-
jury will really hurts us in the Longwood
match, but that's the way it goes.”

Leading the other three top finish-
ers is Sands. Sands leads the Generals
in nearly every offensive category, and
has compiled a 17-7 record. In the
weekend’s action he went 1-1, losing
in the finals to a Longwood foe with
whom he had split his previous two
meetings.

the 200-IM and Rowe won the 200-
breaststroke.

W&L’s female aquatics wer
outrnatched by MWC, but thrashe
Hollins, 143-112, to improve tlyi
ODAC mark to 5-0. They are 7-3 with
the 146-48 loss to Mary Washington.

Freshman Rebekah Prince set a-

school record in the 100—backstroke
(1203.42) versus Hollins.

Prince tallied three victories again st
Hollins and anchored the winning 200-

free relay team. Senior Claire Ducﬂey .-

was also a three-race winner. Sopho-
mores Susan Fisher and Brandi
Henderson each had two wins in the
rout. ‘

Both teams will be at Radford Sat- 

urday for their final dual meets ofghe
season. Then the men prepare for the
Southern States Championship, while
the women get ready for the ODAC/
Atlantic States Championships.

team ,

Shirley lost to a Norfolk State wres- A

tler in the ﬁnals of his weight class.

Williams also fell in the finals of his ,

weight division.

“We would have been more satis- '

fied to have a champion, but we had -

four in the finals,” Franke said.

The team will be hard pressed to
overcome Looney’s loss tonightagainst
a talented Longwood College team.
It’s the ﬁnal dual meet of the season
for the Generals.

Arthur Ashe
He was much more than a legend

0

463-2742

115 S. Main St., Lexington

Sure to please - “Looking Good” Gift Certificates

for those special Valentines. Mary Kay Cosmetics for
women & skin management for men.

Gentlemen and Ladies call Lorie Sadler 463-6379

2 New Houses built with students in mind
4 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, Modern Kitchen, Large Living Area,
Washer/Dryer, Stove, Refrigerator, and Central Heat. Full
basement for recreation. Front and back decks. 12 miles
Southwest of Lexington. $600/month +deposit. Contact
Kenney’s Burger 463-5730 or call 463-2320.

CELLENT ,
EXTRA INCOME NOW!

Free Details: SASE to
International inc.
1356 Coney island Ave.
Brooklyn. New York 11230

Student Housing For Rent
Houses within city limits:
107 _McLaughlin - $800 for four students
Houses in the county:
Rt. 39 - 1 mile off Rt. 11 - $800 for four students
Mt. Vista - 3 miles west on Rt. 60 - $900 for ﬁve students
Turkey Hill - Rt. 602 off Rt. 631 - 4 miles from town
' $600 per month for three students or
$800 per month for four students
Duplex apartments: 605 Allen St. A & B
2 Bedrooms $325.00 each apartment

‘ENVELOPE STUFFING -- ssoo — $2300 every week - q

 

Call Mead & Associates 463-7168

Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

 
  

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom
combination. Private Bath. 10-month
lease. Sin les onl .Call 463-3835.

v »

   
 

ondale - - n k - i
Janspoit day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

TGIF
OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive _
merchandise from America ’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women ’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 — 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

463-7969

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

  
   
 
 
   

By SEAN OROURKE nirig, but no definite turning reacts with his usual class and black man to win the U.S.Open for her. _ He always worried the most to Arthur Ashe has the same
Pm. Spam Editor point, and definitely no clear dignity. and Wimbledon. Then he comes to his daugh- about those who did not under- sense.‘ It was just the way he
* ending. He readsa He talks ter, Camera. He utters the ﬁrst stand or were too young to do so. stuck in your spirit,
J_ In 1975é\rthur Ashefdefeattﬁd d The )1/gag shizriice that spring ptr elp a r ed Tfere is no bitter abpu; his fey; wprds cliftla-enitaw para_gra}p_h But hg never carried bitterness I will miss him in my own
immy onnors or e ay in ve seen grea s a e men - wi e earine an s o s o o regain is owar anyone or any group, no wa _
WimbledonCharnpionship.Iwas changes in my life, and some of o u tl in i n g ness or Self pity in and how composiire. The? most poignant matterwhat sort of injustice they idid not cry when 1 heardﬂ
four-and-a-half years old at the the best lessons I have learned how he con- . . . they have moment comes when he knows committed against him. Ashe died. Despite his appear-
time and only remember bits and over the years can be directly tracted the hls Volcexlustacalnl dealt with he cannot ﬁnish, he raises his Who Arthur Ashe was goes ance and attitude, Ashe was in
pieces of the match. What I re- attributed to my awareness of HIV virus and determined dc. the situation left hand to hide his eyes brieﬂy, beyond patience and courage.He pain, He was suffering from a
member vividly is crying when who Arthur Ashe was. during a meanor that made since_ doc- and then asks his wife to finish was an inherently gracious man. terrible disease, and his death
. , - , -
$.?fil§‘.ii2é°}{’.ti.“§.‘,i‘:?.‘é‘Zf.i.‘i.i.‘l whiti‘;iS.§li§f§‘s§§iTé’J§§§ }’.l‘§?.§’..‘§f‘£€§; him the first and Ziéiiﬁiiiﬁl" "‘°,i‘“t‘§i."°.?.‘i;...e. 1...... he is §ii§‘$f§Z’ii’..‘£‘§.f‘?t‘2§.f,‘:“i§‘.ffu‘¥.° S"ai;°.§’tf.‘Z‘.§l.i‘“Z9‘l‘.‘é’.‘iii{i?.§‘.i;o
day. on April 8, 1992. Ashe calls a his open- only black man to dition in answering the questions of the like most of us, he admitted he much more tz offer the world;‘
Ihave never felt the same way press conference to announce heart surgery . ’ 1988 during journalists present. had them, which made him bet- so much more knowledge and
again. he has AIDS. He says he came in 1983. wln the U-S- Open his brain The entire conference syrn- ter equipped to deal with those compassion, that is sorely
It has taken me more than an forward before a journalist There is no and Wimb]ed0n_ surgery. He bolized who Arthur Ashe was failings. needed by the human race.
hour to reach this point in this printed his story in a nationally- bitterness or Tj-——--— tells of her and what he has come to repre- Ashe died on Saturday after- Arthur Ashe did not live to
pierce becausggiytrip  read newsiiapeﬁ1_From the out- seltf piity in his iéoiice, just a C$m gears  anger, ant: her fear for seat. He glipver geared lfforthir;11- npon, and Ihrieveg h2}dft?t€Ill1((I)lIl0I' see hiséireacrin of1inequali£y(z1ind
s e 1S one tcarmo easi set ou rea ize is was a move an eterrnine emeanor at im. is voice comes un- se orw owe in se i , e o mee in im, ut e ew a wor -wi e a e en e ——
described; it hasadeﬁnite begin)-, he did not want to make, but he made him the first, and only, steady and you know he fears was not selﬁsh like that? y him. Anyine who ever listened but he gave usphogple for both. 9
VARNER 3, poi_E ,,um,,u,eDem Spring Break: ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR
"""""j"'- CANCUN, NASSAU _
For your extra pieces of furniture from $ 2 99 The W&L Admissions Ofﬁce is now accepting applications

for an anticipated Admissions Counselor position. All interestedol
graduating senior should submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Monday, March 1, 1993 to:

 

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions
Ofﬁce of Adrriissions "
I" ' "' " ' ' """"""" - ' 1

0
C
0

4\\

\,

Lcopyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

 

chairman of the board.-

Grab your snowboard and show everybody at Massanutten you
mean business. All our slopes are open to snowboard skiing, along with
our challenging half pipe. Ski Massanutten any Monday or Friday after
12:00 pm for our College Days rates, just $14 for a lift ticket with your  ‘
valid college ID. Bring this ad and you'll receive an additional $2 off the 6"
College Days lift ticket rate. Lessons and limited snowboard rentals are
available. So come on, join the fun. And prove who's the boss.

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

10 Miles Eastﬂorfﬂl-iarris<‘)r1l>urg', Virginia on Route 3.3 i‘.

.-.4-

2“—2-—_22“2:l'\-

‘K
..- - ...__

4

fl

5--1113:-4

 

FEB 2 6 ‘1993
THE UNl\/ERFEETY LIERARY
WASHlN£‘iT'Or: a LEE uitzt/ERSITY
~L£~;X4u‘£<3TOi\i, VA 24450

(' ELEBRATING I HE SILVER

Fancy Dress '93 Pays Tribute
To Hollywood

CREEN

 te Special Supplement

  U112 ﬂing-

ttm lﬂlii

  
   
 
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   

_ VOLUME 92, NO. 19

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The Executive Committee
Monday voted to put constitu-
tiQnal amendments on the class
elections ballot and also amended
the White Book to establish a
process for future changes.

The EC voted to put proposed
constitutional amendments on the
same ballot as the March 22 class
ebctions.

For the amendments to pass,
half of the student body must
I vote, and two-thirds of the voters
must vote for the amendments.
In the 1990-91 school year, con-
stitutional amendments failed be-
cqise of poor voter turnout.
Cathryn Lopiccolo and Rich-
ard Peltz, executive editors of
The Ring—tum Phi, proposed the
amendments on Jan. 25. In a writ-
ten statement to the EC,
Lopiccolo and Peltz said the pro-
sal is an effort to bring the
constitution up to date with the
student government.

A proposed amendment that
deﬁnes executive session as any
“session of the EC that is closed
to the public” and outlines when
the EC may go into executive
scgsion received the most debate.
Discussion about the proposed
amendments centered on the con-
stitutionality of the EC’s pro-
posed Skylark retreat, which will
be closed to the public.
Lopiccolo and Peltz said the
Slylark meeting is unconstitu-
tional.

The EC maintains the meet-
ing does not break the constitu-
tion and will not jeopardize stu-

 Beneﬁt
raises
$27,800

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

W&L’s 15th annual
Superdance raised $27,800 for
the Muscular Dystrophy Asso-
ciation, organizers said this week.
The event drew 750 specta-
tors and 50 students who danced
for donations.

A large percentage of the
nyiney donated came from Wash-
ington and Lee’s fraternities, ad-
visor Fontaine Bostic said.
“If it wasn’t for the fratemi-
ties, we wouldn’t have much suc-
cess,” Bostic said. “The fratemi-
ties support us 100 percent.”
. Bostic said Phi Delta Theta
was the top fraternity money-
raiser with almost $2,000. Chi
Omega raised $750, making it
the top sorority.
Fifty dancers took pledges to
raise money, one-third the num-
ber from last year, Bostic said.
But, Bostic said, “admission
was way up, so it made up for the
low number of dancers.”
“Last year no one was there. It
was night and day as far as atten-
dance,” Superdance Co-chair-
man Betsy Kleiner said.
‘ Of the dancers, freshman Eric
Sproul raised the most money
with $142.
Bostic also noted that the Stu-
dent Telephone Union donated
S l ,000 and Superdance commit-
tee members contributed $250.
9 In the Battle of the Bands, the
Haring Holmes acoustic act, fea-
turing senior Fred Haring and
junior Chris Holmes, won the
first place prize of $300.
Holmes was also amember of
we second place act, Hignon the
dog, with senior John Givens.
Unlike the Lip Synch in Janu-
ary, there were no problems with
people sneaking in without pay-
iiig. '
“Two people actually gave me
,‘ checks because their girlfriends
Ag». in without paying,” Kleincr
I

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

EC sets date
for referendum

dent involvement in government.

Peltz said the EC currently
breaks the constitution when it
enters executive session for com-
mittee appointments and delib-
erations. The new amendment
would make the deliberations
constitutional.

EC President Josh
MacFarland said the proposed
amendment is an improvement
on the current one, which states,
“The Executive Committee shall
not go into executive session ex-
cept in the case of possible honor
violations.”

Peltz and Lopiccolo said they
were pleased with the meeting.

“The EC had some wise in-
sights in our meetings, and we’re
very happy with the proposals
going to referendum,” Peltz said.

But Peltz said the tough work
will be to draw a large enough
turnout in elections.

“The key now will be getting
students to vote,” Peltz said.
“We’re going to need at least as
many voters to turn out as did for
the Big Four, just to validate the
referendum.”

The additions to the White
Book passed Monday outline the
procedure the EC must use to
amend the White Book and es-
tablish a nine-person committee
to review the Honor System ev-
ery three years.

The new process mandates

that none of the committee mem-—

bers be acting EC members.

The EC passed the proposal
unanimously.

“I like the proposal,”
MacFarland said. ‘‘It’s pretty
much on par with what I ex-
pected.”

  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

IFC wrestles
with Flush plan

Photo by Amy French The “Rig-tum Phi

Faye Wattleton tells her audience, “One person makes a difference."

Wattleton

urges

reproductive rights

By MOLLY AFTER
Phi Staff Writer

It doesn’t take a large groups to have
inﬂuence and impact on politics, former
Planned Parenthood Federation President
Faye Wattleton said Wednesday.

“One person makes a difference,”
Wattleton told a Lee Chapel audience
Wednesday, “if that person is single-
minded and will not accept a compromise
or a brush-off.”

iWatvt-leton spoke as part ofthe

1. university’s celebration of Black History

Month. Her visit was sponsored by the
Black Law Students’ Association,
Women’s Forum, the Panhellenic Coun-
cil and Contact.

The govemment shouldn’t have the
right to invade a woman’s reproductive

privacy, Wattleton said. However, she
said, the govemment’s denial of repro-
ductive freedom to women is only a symp-
tom of a more serious illness.

Wattleton said that everyone must look
at the bi gger picture.

“When any group is denied it’s rights,
society suffers,” Wattleton said.

Winning true reproductive freedom is
an important first step in guaranteeing
fundamental rights to everyone, Wattleton
said. She said reproductive freedom can
only be achieved through the passage of
the Freedom of Choice-Act-.~ ~ ~ V

The number of women recently elected
to Congress should not lull women into
complacency, Wattleton said.

“Getting the right people elected is
only the beginning,” Wattleton said. “Get-
ting them to do the right thing is adifferent
story.”

 

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

After much consideration, the IFC and
the Student Affairs Committee are still
trying to formulate a rush proposal that
will be acceptable to both groups.

Last month, the Interfratemity Coun-
cil proposed a tentative Rush plan to SAC.
The rough draft includes an open contact
period prior to Rush, fewer Rush dates,
and amore severe penalty sys-
tem for Rush violations.

But the IFC has yet to
present a formal proposal to
its members.

At Tuesday’ s IFC meeting,
Delta Tau Delta, which has
been suspended for the year,
presented their own Rush pro-
posal. Their proposal includes
pledge class ceilings and 16
mandatory open houses.

Neither pledge class ceil-
ings or additional open houses
are part of the present IFC
proposal.

“From my understanding, the IFC’s
proposal as it stands now is not acceptable
to SAC and will not be approved by the
faculty,” Delt President Patrick McCabe
said. “The proposal doesn’t work to solve
the problems of the current process. I
believe the problems are the severe ﬂue-
tuations in pledge class sizes and the
record number of depledging because of
a lack of information.” .

According to IFC Vice President Tom
Washmon, a proposal requires two con-
secutive votes in IFC meetings to pass.
The first vote on the IFC proposal is
expected to take place next Tuesday.

If the IFC passes the proposal, it will
then be presented to SAC. SAC will then

 

Washmon

FEBRUARY 25, 1993

accept, reject or make recommendations.
If SAC accepts the proposal, the proposal
is subject to faculty approval. If SAC does
not accept it, the proposal will go back to
the IFC for revision.

Since the president of the IFC serves
on SAC, it would be unlikely for a pro-
posal to be made that the IFC did not
approve as well, Associate Dean of Stu-
dents for Greek Affairs Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said.

McCabe explained the reasoning be-
hind Delt’s efforts in a letter to Dean of
Students David Howison.

In the letter, McCabe noted
that one half of this year’s
pledges joined one of ﬁve fra-
temities.

“A slightly extended pe-
riod of Rush, accompanied by
the separation of social and
formal aspects, and the limit-
ing of social expenditures
would allow ample time for
rushees to see the fraternity
members in various settings,"
McCabe said.

Both Howison and Atkins said that
something should be done about the wide
range of pledge class sizes.

“One element of Delt’s plan is an im-
portant issue and that is ﬁnding a way for
the IFC to create equal distribution be-
tween fraternities, ” Howison said. “Delt
is doing the right thing by presenting its
proposal to the IFC, so the IFC can con-
sider incorporating it in its proposal.”

But Washmon said the IFC is wary of
Delt’s plan.

“Delts have no vote on the proposal
[because they have been suspended] and
are one house out of 16,” Washmon said.
“As much as we’d like to appease them,

U see RUSH, page 6

 

    

How to win friends and make millions

Photo by Patrick McCabe

H.F. “Gerry" Lenfest, '53, speaksto the Media Law Forum Feb. 11 . Lenfest told of how
he went from being a corporate lawyer to editor and pubisher of Seventeen magazine
to head of Suburban Cable. Lenfest said his liberal arts and law education taught him
“how to think" and allowed him to excel in different areas.

‘Foreign Student’ definite,
moved to first week of May

By MOLLY AFTER

Phi Staff Writer

“We could not accommodate [the ﬁlm crew],”
Shaw said. “Also, the hotels in town will all be
booked beginning [Thursday, May 6].”

lt’s ofﬁcial. “The Foreign Student” will be shot
at Washington and Lee this spring, but the filming
will take place in May, not March.

W&L Director,of Communications Brian Shaw
said that because the movie takes place in the fall,
the ﬁlm crew decided early March foliage would
be inappropriate. Shaw said the production com-
pany, Cathargo Films, decided that May footage

would be more suitable.

Shaw said he cleared the new production dates
of May 3, 4 and 5 with Buildings and Grounds,
Security and university President John D. Wilson.

Though the shooting would finish Wednesday,
May 5 and Alumni Weekend begins the next day,
Shaw said he does not anticipate a conflict.

But the weather could be a problem. The film
crew allotted three days for filming without allow-
ing for inclement weather, Shaw said, and Alumni
Weekend would make it impossible to push ﬁlm-

ing back a day.

Shaw said the producers say rain won’t be a
problem because much of the ﬁlming will be done
inside.

“They only need a day or a day and a half that is
clear to sho9t outside,” Shaw said. “The rest will be
[shot] in Lee Chapel and the old pool.”

The majority of the movie will be ﬁlmed in
Richmond, Shaw said.

The new ﬁlming dates might increase the chances
of a visit by Phillipe Labro, author of the novel
“The Foreign Student.” The movie touches on
Labro’s experiences as an exchange student at
W&L in the 1950s.

“[Labro] will be speaking April 29 to the [W&L]
alumni chapter in New York,” Shaw said. “So,
he’ll be in the country that week.”

Shaw said he hopes to turn the filming into an
educational experience for W&L students.

“I’m working on getting the director and pro-
ducer up here this term for a lecture on both the film
and filmmaking in general,” Shaw said.

Phones,
Dorms to get

I new system

From the W&L News Office

Beginning in September, stu-
dents who live on campus will
have a new telephone system
whichuniversityofﬁcials say will
provide students with enhanced
capabilities and will save money.

“The system will-allow stu-
dents in their dorm rooms to gain
access to most of the university's
computer resources, such as
Annie and Liberty, while provid-
ing all the features of the most
modern telephone services” Dean
of Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning said.

With the new system, all uni-
versity housing will be wired for
telephone, computer networking
and cable service, Manning said.
Each fraternity house will ini-
tiallybeprovided with twophone
lines connected to the system.

The system was approved by
the Board of Trustees at its Feb-
ruary meeting.

The system will include voice
mail, Manning said, eliminating
the need for answering machines
in the dorms.

Each student will have a code
they will use when making long-
distance calls, Manning said, so
there will be a clear record of
who made each call. Bills for
long distance use can be sent to
students or to their parents.

Students with a computer will
be able to tap into the university
computer system by purchasing
an inexpensive conversion kit,
Manning said.

The cost of the new system,
$22 per month, will be incorpo-
rated into the on-campus hous-
ing rates, Manning said.

He said that since the same
service from Centel costs about
$33 a month, students will save
$11 a month, or $110 over the

10-month academic year. ,

“This is a great deal for the
students,” Manning said. “It gives
them better service at a reduced
price. It really is a win—win situ-
ation.”

phones,phones

Photo by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tuh/

Security director Mike Young activates a new call box.

Security installs call boxes

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Executive Editor

Security has added three new
emergency call boxes to campus.

The boxes are located under
blue lights in the Corral across
from Phi Kappa Sigma,.in the
Piney Woods law student park-
ing lot and on a low wall behind
the new Davidson Park frater-
nity houses.

Students in need of assistance
can push a blue button on the
orange call box and, while hold-
ing the button down, talk directly
to the security ofﬁcer on duty.

Just pushing the button sends
a message to Security that assis-
tance is needed at the location of
the box calling in.

The boxes are also tamper-
resistant. Tampering with ;i box
prompts it locnll in. but lIlt‘.'lI;l1’lll
at the box It\t‘1IIlUll is .\‘lIt‘llI.

Security Director Mike Young
said the boxes, which cost al-
most $2,000 each, are the best
available.

“These are a whole lot easier
to operate than the phones,”
Young said.

The university already has six
emergency phones, one each at
the Pavilion, freshman parking
lot, the end of the stadium, the
military science building, duPont
Hall and the Graham-Lees
lounge.

Young said the existing
phones get plenty of use, carry-
ing 10-15 calls to Security
weekly. Some ofthe calls are for
routine assistance, and some are
immediate emergencies. he said.

Young saidVirgiiii;iTccli;iiid
Davidson College use will boxes
ofthe sziiiic lirziiid as \\'.i.<liiii;:ioii
and I.t‘t".~‘ llt‘\\‘ lvows, .iii.l iliosc
.\'t‘Ilm\I.\‘ Il.l\‘t‘ _-,',i\ci1 tl‘..'i‘.: '..t\ .\t
.lIVIt‘ i.‘\ l\’\\ \

PAGE 2

    

Glitz ‘ﬁling-tum lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Rush realities

The Interfratemity Council’s effort to revise the men’s
Rush process has suddenly become very complicated amid confu-
sion over who exactly has the ﬁnal say.

The IFC wants ultimate control over the revisions pro-
cess, and they certainly should be the key player. The IFC is
responsible for amending its own constitution and by-laws, which
set up the Rush process, and the fraternities of course have the
largest stake in Rush.

Meanwhile, Dean Howison, on behalf of the Student
Affairs Committee, is claiming that organization’s right to give
the OK, or not, to any changes in the Rush system. He seems to
believe SAC could even come up with its own revisions and
override the IFC.

So who's right?

While the IFC has grounds to expect that its autonomy in
this matter will be preserved — W&L does pride itself on
autonomous student govemment— the ﬁnal say will, in reality, lie
with the faculty and its SAC designee. That’s not written down
anywhere explicitly, but experience seems to indicate that at least
this generation of faculty sees itself as charged with responsibility
for ultimate oversight of student affairs. For example, the faculty
last year amended the Student Body Constitution with no regard
at all to the formal revisions procedures, changing the Big Three
elections to Big Four by adding the Student Conduct Committee
chairman to the general election roster.

The faculty should not make such intervention into stu-
dent govemment on any regular basis, or autonomous student
government will fast become just another bygone tradition. The
faculty and SAC should hear the IFC and give the fraternities
every chance at self-govemment. Advising the IFC would be ﬁne;
surely, the IFC would listen to anyone’s ideas.

But only if the IFC proposals threaten the continuation of
the fraternity system, or might be detrimental to the university’s
mission as an educational institution, should the faculty exercise
its veto power. Nothing has happened yet to indicate that that is the
case.

Hot pink ’n’ rubber

It’s been said before, don’tlive in Gaines if you don’t have
an afﬁnity for hot pink railings, rubberized staircases and an
institutional atmosphere.

Now administrators are finally addressing some of the
problems.

With Gaines never having been at full occupancy in its
six-year history, Dean of Residence Life Dennis Manning is
checking out why and making some moves to remedy the situa-
tron.

Changing several rooms from doubles to singles is a good
start. Upperclassmen looking for a place to live after having been
in the donns and often after having been in a fraternity house tend

to be looking for something a bit less communal. Whilesthe»
university trriglitrnake less money from one person ina new single“ 3

than two in an old double, much of that lost revenue mi ghtbe made
up by attracting more students to Gaines.

We hope Manning might also give some attention to
atmosphere. Purely physically, the place smells like a nursing
home, making it about as attractive to visit. It’s hard to foster a
sense of community spirit in a place so antiseptic.

We might take some lessons from other schools. In
addition to choosing a different cleaning agent, the place could use
some posters rather than stark, yellow cinder block; some attrac-
tive fumiture rather than red on battleship gray carpet; some
incandescent lights; basically anything that would add more
pleasing colors.

If Dean Marming intends to bring a renaissance to student
thinking about Gaines, we wish him well. He has taken on an
enormous task.

Now if only he could do something about those railings.

Quote of the Week

There’s only one reason we’re really here on earth. That’s to
reproduce. [Otherwise], God could have made it painful, like you
have to cut off your arm and rub the stubs together.

by mere gadget totals v ‘

——Ice—T
@112 iﬂtltg-111111 iﬂltt
Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist. ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whimey Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

hilmile Sex L<.)¢'.l.~$ siclﬁr

O

l"li‘zs  

'¢‘.li‘9‘Q  +0 Show

 

Us  vﬁcavx .

 lﬁtttofer ae   4..
OOQ§’~  More e.e2t.£Ja«r\&
.  9

Unleashed government forces costs up    

WASHINGTON —— At Hyde Park,
where he placed a single red rose on
FDR’s grave, President Clinton la-
mented that for 12 years Republican

cans with Disabilities Act and the 1991
Civil Rights Act. The Clinton admin-
istration already has contributed addi-
tional compliance costs to the burden

  
  

  

presidents tried“to of doing
cramp the role of business:
govemment.” His the Family
im lication was and Medical
thalt) now govem— GEORGE WILL Leave Act.
ment will be un- . A recent
leashed. Well. Washlngtofl Post study by the
His displeasure Writers Group Joint Eco-
should have been nomic Com-
directed also at the mittee of
Founders,who de— Congress
signed the system concluded

of separation of powers—of checks
and balances, of limited and enumer-
ated powers—designed, in part, to
cramp govemment’s role. And during
the 12 “cramping” Republican years,
virtually no govemmentprograms were
terminated, most grew, federal civilian
employment rose (even during the dark-
est years of the Reagan Terror—198l-
l989—it rose 216,000), and federal
outlays rose from $591 billion to $1.5
trillion.

The grandiosity of Clinton’s plans
for government growth can be gauged
by the fact that he considers this a
record of a “cramped” role for govem-
ment. And remember, govemment’s
growth and cost are vastly an erstated

  

There are‘ also ‘all "the""compliarice
costs of such measures as (to take just
three from the Bush era) the amend-
ments to the Clean Air Act, the Ameri-

that just since 1988, new regulations,
including a 27 percent increase in the
minimum wage since 1990 (with an-
other increase planned), raised per-
worker costs for small businesses at
least 33 percent.

It is difficultto calculate, even to the
nearest $100 billion, the annual costs
of all regulations. However, $400 bil-
lion—a sum larger than the federal
deﬁcit—is a conservative estimate. To
be sure, some social beneﬁts do come
from regulations. But who believes we
would choose to purchase all those
benefits if their real prices were promi-
nently ﬁxed to them? And then there
are the costs of the purely pernicious
“diversity” regulations, as enforced by

a governrnenti unfor_tun_a_tely not no- ;

ticeably crarnped"duririg the 1 2 Repub-
lican years. In a stunning article in the
Feb. 15 issue of Forbes magazine, Pe-
ter Brimelow and Leslie Spencer re-

port on the sacrifice of merit hiring to
quotas, and other consequences of this
country’ s exquisitely misnamed “equal
employment laws.” The cost of all
this—a huge hidden tax—may already
have depressed the gross domestic prod-
uctbyfourpercentage points—approxi-
mately what we spend on the entire
public school system.

Today American business is infested
with affirmative action ofﬁcers. These
private sector bureaucrats are busy
implementing racial and sexual dis-
crimination (discriminatory laws) on
behalf of various govemment-approved
minorities (and one majority—women)
known as “protected classes.” The
object is to produce a “balanced” work
force.

Corporations with federal contracts
of more than $50,000—hundreds of
thousands of corporations—must spend
billions of dollars developing affirrna—
tive action plans for achieving payrolls
that reﬂect the composition of the quali-
fied work force. All American em-
ployers with more than 15 employees
come under the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission’s Uniform
Guidelines on Employee Selection Pro-
cedures and can be sued if their work
force “balance” strikes someone as
“wrong.” Brimelow and Spencer re-
port this hair-curling testimony from

Thomas Mag giore, aPhoenix restaura— _

teur: -

“In 1987 EEOC’s local ﬁeld ofﬁce
wrote me a letter saying they had rea-
son to believe I didn’t have enough

women ‘food servers’ and ‘busers.’
No woman had complained agaimt
me. So the EEOC advertised” in the
local paper to tell women whose job
applications we had rejected—or even
women who had just thought of apply-
ing——that they could be entitled to dam-
ages. Twenty-seven women became
plaintiffs in a lawsuit against me. e
EEOC interviewed me for hours to ﬁ d
our what kind of person I was  I

supplied them with hundreds of pounds .

of paper. I had to hire someone full
time for a year just to respond to EEOC
demands. Six months ago I finally
settled. I agreed to pay $150,000 
damages, and as jobs open up, to hire
the women on the EEOC’s list  I
have to advertise twice a year even if I
have no openings, just to add possible
female employees to my files. I also
had to hire an EEOC-approved person
to teach my staff how not to discrimi-
nate. I employ 12 food servers in these

two restaurants. Gross sales around $2 ‘

million. How much did it all cost me?
Cash outlay, about $400,000.”
Maggiore’s ordeal is but one of many
comparable outrages that occurred dur-
ing the 12 years when Republicans had
government on what Clinton conside9s
too short a leash. Imagine, if you can,
how much more omnipresent, ofﬁcious,
intrusive, bullying and expensive gov-
ernment will be new that it is staffed
and directed by people who, like the
president, think government's role has
been too “cramped.” 0
© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton, Republicans must seize the day

WASHINGTON —— Arthur Schlesinger Jr. once
predicted that the early ’90s would see a “sharp
change in the national mood comparable to those
bursts in innovation and reform” in the presidencies

of Theodore Roosevelt, FDR
and John F. Kennedy.

the federal deﬁcit.

Noting the arrival of ac-
tivist government in 30-year
cycles, the great historian
went further. He saw, with
exquisite precision, the age
and experience of the admin-
istration that would mark the
ascendance to power of“those
young men and women who

came of political age in the Kennedy years.”

On Feb. 17, the American people saw Schlesinger’s
prophesy spring to life. President Bill Clinton, age 46
and a Jack Kennedy disciple to his toes, presented the
country with anational economic program that braced
the ruling Democrats, cheered the typical TV viewer,
and left even the young president’s critics stunned by

his audacity.

But if this is to be the great moment of national
“change” that Schlesinger predicted and Clinton
demands, it will take more than a blowout speech in
February or apartisan knockout when the president’s
package comes to a vote on the ﬂoor of Congress.

No. What’s needed is a consensus, one shared by
Republicans and conservative Democrats, as well as
Clintonites, that the time has truly come for this great

country of ours to get off the dime.

For such a consensus to be joined, those on the
right need to admit that, for all their problems with
the Clinton plan, at least this president had the guts to
act. For their part, those on the left need to admit that,

 
  
   

CHRISTOPHER
MATTHEWS

Tribune Media
Services

siveness.

chunk in domestic cuts

ink.

for all their love of new programs, best possible
economic development program for today’s and
tomorrow's America is a gigantic, genuine chop in

can live with this modest phase-
down from a defense budget de-
signed to match a Soviet Union at
the height of its power and aggres-

2. DOMESTIC SPENDING

Clinton has proposed domestic
budget cuts that would reach $62
billion by 1998. But unlike the
Pentagon cuts, this $62 billion

yield an equal drop in federal red
Why? Because Clinton & Co.,

plans to hike federal spending in
other areas $45 billion by 1998.

programs, the Democrats to peel back their 0
demands for new federal spending. Otherwise, go - ‘
emment borrowing will continue to crowd out pri-

vate investment, leaving business and the consumer

Clearly, Clinton deserves an “A” for audacity

Here’s how it could be both starved for credit.
done: 3. TAXES

1.DEFENSE SPEND-
ING

No problem here. Un-
der Clinton’s proposal,
Pentagon spending would
drop from $294 billion in
the coming year to $253
billion in 1998. Both Re-
publicans and Democrats

crats,

will not

dime.

What’s needed is a
consensus, one shared
by Republicans and
conservative Demo-
as well as
Clintonites, that the
time has truly come
for this great country
of ours to get off the

here. He had the nerve, which two conservative
presidents did not, to tell the American people the
facts of ﬁscal life.

Most important, he has opened the door to neces-
sary compromise. When the president mentioned his
proposal to increase the taxation of Social Security
beneﬁts for those retirees making $25,000 and above,
there was not a single clap in the house. That should

tell him something.

The solution is apparent.

Clinton said Wednesday
evening that the country “must
break the habits of both political
parties and say there can be no
more something for nothing, and
admit frankly that we are all Hi
this together.”

It could not be said more
plainly. The president and Con-
gress, Democrats and Republi-
cans alike, need to forge an eco-
nomic program that includes
more spending cuts -— inclu0
ingcutbacksinsomeofClinton’s

The net result is that the total saved

on domestic programs is just $17 billion —- not a

huge amount given the size of the federal budget.
The country can do better. The solution is for

Republicans to propose additional cuts in existing

pet projects and fewer tax hikes.

If they succeed, they will achieve ahistoric uptick not
just in the national “mood” that Arthur Schlesinger
predicted but one in the national outlook as well.

© 1993, Tribune Media Services

Clinton administration appears clueless

MY VIEW
By Paul Wright, ’95

President Bill Clinton has continu-
ously proposed change, a new direc-
tion for America and a new life for
Americans, but he has yet to show any
evidence that he will be capable of any
signiﬁcant change beyond substituting
the Colorado Precision Lawn Chair
Team for the traditional Culber Horse
Team at Inauguration. The president
and his Democratic Leadership Coun-
cil have pledged to the American people
that the new administration will bring
an end to traditional politics. That is,
they have promised to cease the inces-
sant bureaucratic power game and the
sub—cultures which accompany the ex-
panding and increasingly impotent
government. This idea is extremely
noble and admirable but rather unat-
tainable. In order to alter a system, the
persons involved must have a clear

understanding and working knowledge
of all the working parts of the whole.
Recent events exemplify the fact that
the new leaders do not possess the
necessary collective knowledge to pro-
vide the American people with their
needs. Appointment ﬁascoes, Penta-
gon disputes, Congressional battles,
and economic reversals are evidence
that the new leaders cannot produce the
effects which the nation gave them the
opportunity to bring. ‘

I make no claim that a Republican
president could inherently guarantee
his Senate appointments, for history
has shown us that this is deﬁnitely not
the case. I do, however, offer the argu-
ment that the Democrats led the major-
ity of the past appointment blockades
by trying to ﬁt every prospective into
infamous “Tower standards.” An ide-
alist and inefficient schedule of de-
mands designed to impede the progres-
sion of govemmenl or, more specifi-
cally, Republican govcrninenl with

needless personal attacks. With this
idea in mind, it is evident that the
opposing party usually assumes the
lead in rejection proceedings, but the
Zoe Baird appointment hearing broke
the mold.

The Republicans have been delib-
erately allowing appointments to pass
without undue harassment because they
are anxious to see the government start
acting its “magic.” Zoe Baird had
received this treatment with a comple-
mentary endorsement by Senator Orrin
G. Hatch of Utah but suffered the first
blows of rejection at the hands of Ralph
Nader of the Democratic left wing when
he labeled the lawyer an “anti-con-
sumer tool of corporate interest.” Fol-
lowing the Nader attack, the public
found Baird to be a rich, liberal social-
ite living in a fancy New Haven, Conn..
with a chauffeur-driven car and the
memberofanciglrlxniiootlzissocintimr
lfying l()l1l0(‘l\ ll(\llSllll[ for punt kills

ll .\‘('t‘lll.\' that mvlvml\ lll the ruin.-

transition team knew the political game
well enough to see the potential public
fury that would develop from the a
pointrnent of a “rich lawyer who broke
the law to save a few pennies.” In my
opinion, President Clinton should re-
member the 43 percent of America
who like them and try to “retain the
populist style that got him elected.”
Admittedly, difficulty in Senar

appointment hearings is not a perfect
measure of government ignorance. I
think we should examine the relation-
ship that the Commander-in-Chief is
establishing with his vast troops and
the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Because of
President Clinton’s wish to allow l10-
mosexuals in the armed forces. man. J
of the top military officials h;r\'c im-
plied that they may resign. In ntldition.
The New York 'l‘iincs of Jan. .‘.N re
ported that (icircrnl (‘elm ll l‘om-ll,
llt‘.ltl Hi‘ lltt‘ lmnl (‘lll(‘l.\' oi .\".:l'.'., t"\

.152» N1 W, image 

 

O

V Theﬁing-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

  
  
      
   

iSr>0s’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

‘Some weeks ago, Spos was engaging in the time-
‘honored tradition of watching television at 3:30 in
the morning after drinking beer with one’s fraternity
, brothers. In strict accordance with The Local Cable
‘tAdvertising Act of 1991, which states that anyone
with an extra five bucks can advertise on cable when
m t sane people are asleep, the el-cheapo local
commercials hit the screen. I payed attention.

“Approximately 60 quintillion pets are destroyed
each year,” said the ugly woman on the TV, “most of
which could have been spared if burns like you had
given them a good home.”

At least, this is what I think she said, but I was
dru k. In that tipsy, emotionally-amplified state that
24 udweisers tend to put one in, I immediately
began to feel remorse for EACH AND EVERY ONE
OFTHOSE POOR, WHIMPERING PUPPIES AND
KITTENS THAT ARE DESTROYED EVERY
DAY. I expressed my alcohol—enhanced emotions
by immediately falling to the ﬂoor, screaming some-
thing about Old Yeller and curling up under the
coﬂee table, sucking my thumb. Alcoholic bever-

ages can truly wreak havoc on one’s psyche.

The next morning, after wiping the party muck
off of my clothes with an old Playboy, I headed to the
local pet store, determined to “make a difference in

‘ apet’s life.”

inking to spend perhaps 30 bucks on a bunch of
gel fish or something, Spos entered the pet store and
began to browse through the many and varied pets
within. There were dogs, cats and hamsters, as one

would expect from a pet store. In addition, this
particular pet store had several exotic pets, including
a big snake that looked as if it had recently swallowed
several large rodents (they didn’t say HOW they
destroyed those 60 quintillion pets, did they?) and a
colorful bird that seemed to want to talk to everyone
in the store except me. ' .

After browsing some more, Spos decided to pur-
chase a tropical aquarium. l’ll say it again —
“tropical aquarium.” The words seem to roll off of
the tongue with a certain degree of eloquence, be-
traying the fact that they are merely a euphemism for
“fish 

Sounds simple, right? Well, according to the lady
at the pet store, you can’t just buy a fish tank and add
water and fish. You have to buy a filter, gravel, light,
fish tank hood, and several other things that jack up
the price of a “tropical aquarium” to about 150 bucks.
And I hadn’t even bought the fish yet.

After returning to Spos Central Command, I set
up the tank on my dresser and added the water and
starter chemicals. It was a deceptively complex op-
eration. After allowing the environment to settle
for 24 hours, Iretumed to the pet store to purchase my
fish.

Spos decided to purchase four rainbow tetras and
three black tetras. Rainbow tetras are cool. They look
like what you would expect Don Johnson to look like
if he was suddenly transformed into a tiny fish. They
are pastel—colored and have this mean—spirited look
about them, almost as if they have spent the past few
years killing dmg dealersin Miami. Blacktetras look
almost like rainbow tetras, except that they have
black stripes.I placed them in my fish tank and fed
them for the first time in theirnew home. I named the

OPINION

Fish’s fatal fiasco opens Spos’ eyes

PAGE 3

pastel—colored ones after yuppie mail-order catalogs.
I could have sworn that they looked happy. Unfortu-
nately, by the following morning all seven were stone
dead.

Fortunately for Spos, the pet store had a 24-hour
guarantee. The kind folks at the pet store were true to
their word and furnished me with seven new fish, free
of charge. They were especiallycivil about the whole
situation, considering that Spos had already sent
seven of the little critters to meet their maker.

What happened next made Spos contemplate call-
ing the Guinness Book of World Records and asking
what the record was for most tropical fish killed
within a 48-hour period. I put the fish in the tank, as
per the directions the pet store lady gave me. Twenty
minutes later, all seven had expired again, leaving
Spos with suspicion as to what was in his tank water.

The next day, Spos brought a sample of tank water
to the nice lady at the pet store to have it tested. The
tests revealed lethal levels of chemicals in the water
that suspiciously corresponded to the levels one would
get if one’s fraternity brothers were to sneak into the
room late at night in order to see how fish can swim
in a beer/water solution. In other words, I was back
to square one.

I repeated the pet store lady’s instructions, this
time using store—bought distilled water. The pet store
was kind enough to once again supply Spos with new
f ish. These new fish have survived to present day. (I
am knocking on wood, even as I write this.)

This story has several morals:

1) Never watch TV under the inﬂuence of alcohol.

2) If you feel the need to purchase a pet, buy a dog.

3) If you already have a pet, odds are that several
fraternity males have tried to feed it beer.

Clinton government teeters on edge of trouble

Cl IQEW, from page 2

plicitly informed the Commander the
“homosexuals will wreck morale and
discipline, undermine recruiting, force
devoutly religious service members to
resign, and increase the risk of AIDS to
heteaosexual troops.” In other words,
the Commander—in—Chief could single-
handedly decimate the backbone of
‘ armed forces if he allows gays into the
organization. I should explain that in
theory President Clinton could deci-
lnate the backbone because the fact
.;£"e ins that he does not have the po-
V itic‘al power to issue the order without
Congress overturning him. Defense
Secretary Les Aspin stated in a memo
to the president that the majority of
Congress would oppose any measure
to lift the homosexual ban, and, in fact,

Clinton would receive a maximum of
only thirty votes in favor of the pro-
posal in the Senate.

Aspin’s belief that the president is
not powerful enough to successfully
issue an executive order without Con-
gress slapping him is evident in the
following quote from his memo: “The
challenge at this point is no longer
ending discrimination. Instead, the
challenge is to prevent the Congress
from overturning a new policy.” This
quote gives direct evidence, albeit dis-
turbing, that our new president must
abandon the underlying morality of his
actions in favor of saving face in front
of a Congress that does not seem to
respect him, or his policies.

Earlier I stated, in a quote from The
New York Times, that PresidentClinton
needs to return to the populist form and

rhetoric of Candidate Clinton that got
him elected.

A tremendous part of this populist
appeal found its strength in the eco-
nomic plight of many Americans. In
response to their cries, Candidate
Clinton promised middle class tax cuts,
deﬁcit shrinkage, and a complete eco-
nomic plan to present to the nation by
Inauguration Day. Instead of announc-
ing his four or five year plan, he sends
his Secretary of Treasury, Lloyd
Bentsen, to announce that there will be
a consumption tax on all forms of en-
ergy, which will weigh heaviest on the
middle class, and couples this state-
ment with the declaration that there
will be no middle class tax cuts as
Candidate Clinton had promised.

Maybe we should bind Clinton by
the Honor System and have the Execu-

-I

tive Committee oversee his actions
because, right now, he needs guidance,
and his novice organization is not do-
ing the job.

There is a terrible discrepancy be-
tween President Clinton and Candi-
date Clinton, which needs to be recti-
fied. Perhaps he should reinstate his
campaign strategists James Carville and
Paul Begala because they must be po-
litical geniuses if they could entice
that 43 percent to accept this adminis-
tration. In his Inaugural Speech, Clinton
told us that “this is our time, let us
embrace it.” Well, Iam going to do my
best to embrace something and hold on
for dear life until effective and experi-
enced leadership comes into power.

Paul Wright is press correspondent
and spokesman for the Washington and
Lee College Republicans

to the Editor:
Eter seeing the cartoon of President Wilson asking the
vy of Payne Hall how itfeels about the new Watson Gallery,
, am amazed at the attitudes of students regarding the
atson Gallery. I realize that this cartoon was done only in
est of the falling ivy, but I believe that it only too well
xpresses feelings which many have. I cherish the Colon-
iadeias much as any other student, and I have been called a
3ropQnent of the status quo, but even I cannotunderstand the
:riticism of this building.
No one likes having the noise and bother of dealing with
tonstruction on campus, but the long term good of this
uilding should more than outweigh this slight disturbance.
1 will not destroy our Colonnade, but will add a resource
hich no other campus in the nation can possibly equal, the
inesﬁcollection of Chinese porcelain.
We consider ourselves one of the best universities in the
ation, and I firmly agree with trying to improve ourselves
(I the college as a whole. Anyone who has seen Harvard
r Yale, some of the most acclaimed centers of learning in
' e nation, can testify that these universities have museums
-vith some of the most famous collections of artwork, books,
to. ,Omown.
These add depth to a school, making it more than just a

to college to not just spend time in the classroom, but to 7

expand ourselves through experiencing new things, be they
concerts, lectures, or even Chinese porcelain. I do not want
Washington and Lee to turn into another Ivy League school,
just to try to achieve standards of all—around education set by
such schools.

At first I too was opposed to this addition to our campus.
Yet this land was used for little else than crossing from
building to building. The Watson Gallery is appropriately
placed because it will become an intricate part of our
campus, something that students, faculty, and visitors will
be able to experience. We should look on this as not giving
up patch of grass, but as a new place to learn and enrich
ourselves.

Someone once told me that a university where there is
construction is a healthy one. For while it may not be
attractive, it means that there are interests in the future of the
school and that alumni and others actively support their
alma mater. I believe that Washington and Lee is one of the
best universities in the nation. This is due to people, like
Mrs. Watson, who out of the goodness of their hearts are
willing to try to better this institution. I just hope that people
will stop trying to see how this hurts us, and instead will look
to the future and see how this makes us a better university.

   

wants you

Dear Sophomores and Juniors:

As President of Kathekon, I invite
you to fill out an application to join our
organization. Formed in 1984 by the
Alumni House, Kathekon members are
considered alumni-in-residence and
work to better student-alumni relations.
We are involved with many projects
over the course of the school year. We
start by sponsoring a barbeque for
Freshmen during orientation and end
by helping events run smoothly for
Alumni Weekend.

Every year at this time we conduct
interviews looking for dedicated,
hardworking individuals. We are ask-
ing everyone interested, regardless of
affiliation to sign up. Our group con-
sists of only 28 members. In the past
we have had 90 to 100 applications to
interview for only 14 spots. However,
you should not let this be a deterrent. If

lace where one sits in a classroom and learns. Learning

xtends beyond the classroom. With this in mind we come

_.I

terviews and Photos
y Darran Winslow
I

Sean Johnson, ’95

you are committed and sincere about
joining us, I urge you to sign up.

Tom Hooper '93

TALKBACK

Republicans

There will be a College Repub-
licans meeting March 2 at 7:30
p.m. in the Mock Convention of-
free. The debate topic will be pri-
vate enterprise. I

RACASA

Windfall, a folk music group
from the Shenandoah Valley, will
perform a beneﬁt concert for the
Blue Ridge Sexual Assault Center
Saturday, Feb. 27 at 8 p.m. at Mary
Baldwin College in Staunton, Va.
For additional information, call
703-885-7273.

Democrats

There will be an important Col-
lege Democrats meeting Sunday,
Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in the game room.
Officer elections will be held.

FD

The gym will be open during
the day on, March 5 so people may
see the completed decorations be-
fore the ball begins.

CD&P

The Career Development and
Placement Ofﬁce is pleased to an-
nounce that Tina Hand, ’95, and
Molly Saunders, ’95, are lucky
winners of a lovely ﬂamingo from
the Summer Opportunities Day.
The ﬂamingos are fine examples
of collectable art and are quickly
becomingaW&L tradition. Bevan
Ovens, ’95, is the winner of the
1993 Internship Directory.

Kathekon

Kathekon, W&L’s student-
alumni association, will accept
applications for membership be-
ginning Feb. 12. Membership is
open to rising juniors and seniors.
Applications will be available at
the Alumni Office and outside

line for applications is March 5.
Sign-upsheets for interviews will
be available in the University Cen-
ter.

Film Society

The W&L Film Society is
pleased to announce encore pre-
sentations of “Howard's End” Fri-
day at 8:05 p.m. and Saturday, at
2:05 p.m., at 8:05 p.m. in the Trou-
badour Cinema. All are encour-
aged to attend and as always there
is no charge for admission.

Elections

Petitions forExecutive Commit-
tee class representatives and class
officers are due March 15. Elec-
tions will be March 22.

Carol Calkins’ office and the dead- 7

 

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum is sponsoring a
program entitled.“Dispelling Myths"
on Sunday, Feb. 28 at 6 p.m. in
Fairfax Lounge. We will be meeting
with representatives from the sur-
rounding women's colleges to dis-
cuss student relations and perpetuat-
ing myths. Food and beverages will
be served.

Ribbons

Wear a blue ribbon during Fancy
Dress week to heighten your aware-
ness of the connection between ex-
cessive drinking and sexual assault.
Pick up your ribbon at the Univer-
sity Center, the Health Center or the
University Library. ‘

New Club

The Red Wheelbarrow Society.
What’s this!? We’re a group of
weirdos that meet each Saturday
night to read poetry by candlelight.
Want to join us? We meet in the
conference room of Payne Hall (sec-
ond ﬂoor) at 9 p.m. Come by and
read or just listen. Questions? Call
Kristin Roach at 464-3916. Won-
dering about our name? Stop by and
find out.

’93 Project

The Class of '93, Pledge Project
Committee is now forming. Please
participate! For more information
call Annie at 464-6266.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, don’t drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturday nights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. We’re also
looking for volunteers to help drive.
If interested call Melissa or Jess at
464-4017.

I 1, International

The International Club will
present a slide presentaion and
speech by Professor Hampden H.
Smith called “A Peek at Moscow”
tonight at 8 p.m. in Reid Hall room
203. Refreshments will be served.

The International Club will also
present a slide presentation and lec-
ture titled “Working With a Peru-
vian Community” by Anthropology
Professor John McDaniel on March
3 at 7 p.m. in Northern A.tditorium.
Refreshments will be served.

IFC

Mark Usry, Associate Business
Law Professor at James Madison
University, will speak on fraternity
risk management Sundayfrom 3 p.m.
to5p.m.attheC-School. AllGreeks
are invited.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar.

What do you think Baner did for break?

‘ vies Reynolds. “)6, Edinboro, Pa.
"Hit on Ruekhrulge High girls.”

0

John Conkling, ’93, Chestertown,
Md. — “Washed his truck.”

Susan Komonytsky, ’94, Spring Valley, Ohio, and Andrew Pearson, ’93,
Arlington, Va. — “Shot some stick at Shark’s.”

Ryan Connolly, ’96, Atlanta. Ga.—
“Gave out parking tickets to VMI ca-
dcls.”

Reggie Aggzirwtll. “NI .. :\I(‘\:lll(iI'i;l.
Vzl. —— “(';uuc up with smite nun
l't\l'lll\' nl scll lbw "

:;g-:-:-:-:-.v'  .-:-:-c-:-':-:-:-:-:-c-:-:-:-c-:-:--: ' if 9 

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-'-:-:-:-:-'

    
   

 

FEATURES

 

By RICHARD PELTZ
Phi Executive Editor

RADFORD — Rapper, rocker, actor, writer and cultural
icon Ice-T spoke to a sell—out crowd at Radford University on
Feb. 1 1 about everything from racial harmony to the battle of
the sexes.

“A lot of schools don’t even let people like me come and
speak,” Ice-T said atan afternoon press conference at Roanoke
Regional Airport. “There’re a lot of questions Iraise when I
speak, and I don’t necessarily know the answers.”

Reporters badgered Ice—T with questions about the song
“Cop Killer” on his last album, “Body Count,” recorded with
the group of the same name. Ice-T pulled the track last
summer, when it became an issue after the Los Angeles riots.

Ice-T said the song is directed only at hypocritical,
corrupt police officers who either break the law themselves,
such as by using illegal drugs while off-duty, or police who
are aware of corruption of their fellow ofﬁcers but do nothing
about it.

“I’ve got more cop friends now than I have ever had in my
life,” Ice-T said. “My true rage comes from these cops telling
me about cops. There are cool cops who know what time it
is.”

Ice-T,‘ who wore a Los Ange-
les Police Department T-shirt at
the speech in Radford’s Preston
Auditorium, blamed corrupt po-
lice and the media for exploding
“Cop Killer” into a front-page
issue.

“These bad cops say, ‘damn,
we’re being attacked. The best
defense is a good offense, so
let’s attack something,’” Ice-T
told his Radford audience. “Af-
ter a month and a half, I was still
in the headlines.... The minute I pulled it [“Cop Killer”], the
right stuff started showin’ up on the front page.”

Ice-T accused the media at the press conference of sensa-
tionalism. He criticized media and government alike for

At lett, Ice-T addresses reporters at a press con-
terence at the Roanoke Regional Airport on Feb.
11. He arrived at the airport In the company of one
friend and no bodyguards.

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

on your 00
looks one.

 
  
  

To earn our College Days rate of $14 for lift tickets and $12 for

\

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 “\\\\\\

I’m into total racial
bonding. I’m trying
to get people united
. . . to explain why the
divide and conquer
thing has got us at
each other ’s throats.

o.ppoqoQQo"

All Winter Merchandise
50% Off

 

relying on a Constitution which does not protect free speech,
he said.

“The Constitution is a figment of all our imaginations,”
he said. “There is no free speech.Fuck, shit, bitch, dick. That
didn’t make it into your newspaper. ,
The Constitution can be bent  into
anything you want.

“You have a free will under God
because each person is put here to say
anything you want,” he said. “Every
person has a constitution in his heart,
 d that’s what you should stand
by ”

   
 

Ice-T defended the colorful lan-
guage in his presentation to the press
and his Radford audience.

“I use all the words of the lan-
guage,” he said at Radford, evoking
cheers from students. “I challenge
any of you educated minds to tell me
how the word ‘shit’ is going to send
me to hell.”

Ice-T’ s lecture, part of a two-week
tour of colleges, was sponsored at
Radford by students and the
university as a Black History
Month activity. Race was one
of Ice-T’s themes and evoked
the most emotional reaction
from the audience.

“I’m into total racial bond-
ing,” Ice-T said. “I’m trying to
get people united  to explain
why the divide and conquer
thing has got us at each other’s throats.”

One white student in the audience asked Ice-T how
to handle it when his father wouldn’t let him have
black friends over.

“Right is more important than family,” Ice-T said. “Your
parents don’t own you. You’re God’s child.”

He also said it's not enough for a white person to say he
is not racist.

“You’ve got to show it,” he said. “You’ve got to get
involved. ...When the uprisings in Los Angeles went off,
there were busloads of white people down there to help, and
that was healthy.”

Ice-T said that rap music is combating racism among

Photos by Richard Peltz, The Ring-tum Phi

  

The Ring-tum Phl, February 25, 1993

  

young people.

“It’s been 400 years of programmed racism,” he said. “;
don’t think anybody hates anybody. It’s all taught.

“[Now,] you are seeing a renaissance of young kids
reaching for the
truth, reaching for
racial equality. And
it’s all ’cause of rap.”

The cover of Ice-
T’s next album,‘
f‘Home Invasion,”
due out in March,
depicts the renais-
sance Ice-T per-
ceives and was one
reason for th
rapper’s split from
Time-Warner to
form his own label,

announced ‘last
, month.
Ice-T passed

around the new al-
bum cover at th
press conference. It
shows a white boy
wearing earphones
~ with Ice-T music
» playing and rap
groups’ names in the
' 1 background.Hesai0
the cover was too
“toxic” for Time-
Warner, though the

 

split was cordial.

Warner Brothers, the record division of Time-Warner,
“were like little buddy sayin’ ‘come on, Ice, don’t throw that
rock, ’cause we always get in trouble [with Time-Wamer], ”b
Ice-T said. “I said, ‘Igot to throw this rock, ’cause it’s comin’
from my heart.’ So I let Warner Brothers go home.”

He said Time-Wamer gave him full rights to all videos,
albums and catalog merchandise.

The image on the cover of “Home Invasion” is symbolic
of what Ice-T perceives as a renaissance of youth.

“The injection of the black voice in the white youth is thm
final stage in preparation for the revolution,” Ice-T said.

He said he sees some kind of revolution as necessary to

 

-'-‘:':':':':1:%":':':'.'l.'.'.'!-'.'-

Alvin - Emttiia ’

Tuxedos for Sale and Rental

 
 

 
   

your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St. Lexinton - Below First American Bank

 All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at  Fancy Cummerbund Sets -'
 Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99  Flasks

 Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable  Ray-Bans

 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95   Redwing Boots .
 Saturday Night Prime Rib  W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes
 Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 Truck stop ' 

 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.  ‘since 1953

 4 miles North on Route 11  Studen_t Char4g:3A5c3c§;nts Available ,
2:‘ We accept Visa, Mastercard, hoice, & Shell 

'_ _____________________________ _ _ 1 7///  //// W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for

        

 

(703) 463-5988

‘ 

 

 

    

W&L Art

W&L copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron T unison
Mary and George Washington pieces

Iri- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and

TGIF 

OUTLETS

O
._ 'S*¥A'Y?» . 1870 Washin ton College Diploma Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
'.   1 signegd “R.E. Lee” Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount
.. W53‘ _  Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
**""o?ﬁTa"zTséeT”«c1?Ea’§”"  Signatures‘ - - 9 -
, éiim. mmmc  mzhugh Lee 113, Lee, Jr, merchandise from America s most famous mail
: 33:10”  M. Miley John Letcher order houses. New shipments Every Week! ,
22.24s.x7:><m- . 1 Edward Valentine

rentals, all you have to do is show us your valid college ID. And if you
bring us this ad, you'll save an additional $2 off the College Days lift
ticket rate. College Days rates apply every Monday and Friday after
12:00 pm. So take advantage of your good looks and join the college
crowd at Massanutten.

K“ I N“ Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

io Miles East of V}-iarrisonburg. Virginia on Rout;rE’>’E’>

|_Copyright 1993, Great Eastern Resorts. WL

.l

  

lllllllllllllﬁ
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street
Le ton. VA 24450

@703) 464-6464

Open Monday — Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

/1

Don't miss he PhiFD Supplement!"

Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - ,
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

  

  

The Fling-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

 
 
   

also.”
I the Los Angeles riots

' the government, or “system,” which he says is
ning beyond salvation, and replace it with a just

intellectual rebellion first, but if it takes action,

Pays,” the title playing on the fact that he’d found a new way
to make money, he said. His career blossomed with later
albums, especially “O.G. Original Gangster.”
Ice-T moved into the movie scene with roles in “New
Jack City,” “Ricochet” and “Trespass.”
“I have no idea how to act,” he

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

,autiful thing” because
,ained control of their
rom.the malfunction-

You have a

because each person is put here

said. “I go in there; the line says,
‘Who's at the door?’; I say,
‘Who’s at the door?’; the
director’s like, ‘Brilliant! ”’

free will under God

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 

= mediately to gangs  hard—core.”

_ act girlfriend got pregnant.
school, he went into the army for four years

ld

I igh school in Los Angeles, where he was “indoc-

on meager government support, he found he
ible his income with crime, he said. In 12th grade,

airborne ranger, he said. He left the army “with
ike of the system” and was drafted back into the

said he was involved in insurance fraud, credit
gs, pimping, kidnapping, arson and armed rob-
hasﬁnever been stretched in prison.” He said he
n rap writing rhyming gang slogans as graffiti.

oved into music with his first album, “Rhyme

woman and enjoy the sex.. ..

“There’s only one reason we’re really here on earth,” he
said. “That’s to reproduce. [Otherwise,] God could have
made it painful, like you have to cut off your arm and touch
the stubs together.” '

Asked what one message Ice-T would like to give to
college-age men and women, he said, “courage.

“As long as you let the opposition scare you, you lay
dormant and become its slave.. .. Stand on your feet.”

At rlght, Ice-T speaks from the podlum to 1,500 In
the audience at Radford University on Feb. 11. His
talk lasted more than three hours. Most of that
time he took questions from the audience.

and

  

PAGE 5

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Learn
5 Unooncerned

10 Matched
collections

14 Rim

15 Rod of the ,
courts

16 Egress

17 Bamboo, for
one

18 Make up (for)

19 Top

20 One source of
college funds

22 Travels regularly

23 Look at
suggestlvely

24 Stew

25 Inclination

27 Harsh in tone

31 "— we all?"

32 Shine

33 Name in China

34 Take five

35 Much_watched @1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

29 was like Martin to Say anythlng you, wa,nt' E,“Ver_y Ice-T saidheiscurrent1ywork- . 36 i-Liiiiest ,
gDay tome,” he said. person has a constitution in his ing on a book, tentatively titled, 3; fcnéﬁniz: d L°s'W°°k“"sW°'==

udo something wrong, heart 0 and thatas what you “The Ice Opinion: Who Gives a 39 "E: guamjge 7 Bards rive,

'onsequences. How do ’ ' ° Fuck?" Ma —-" 8 Posted

a consequence when should Stand by- He said he wants to make his 40 - =_i Pin 13 3:10"?
mrgent] fuck up? No mark in different arts to inspire ﬁg ggggﬁzﬁegf 1, Stir‘

w stupid or wrong, [the people] issued a conse- children to achieve despite disadvantages like those he baseball 12 Fourth

L05 Ange]eg_” faced, 44 Golf call dimension

onse to criticism that innocent people died in the “All I do is instill hope,” he said. “I am you. You can do 2; ggﬁggggﬁst 13 :'gb';°'V ‘”°”‘°"‘

T cited Malcolm X, saying, “There will be no it.” 52 Fish sauce 21 Left '

1 without bloodshed.” Ice-T has turned some of his fame into immediate relief 53 Arab princes 22 Decorous

e-T said the most important revelation of the with his financial support of Hands Across Watts, an orga- 54 ;Wg‘:r't‘9 ‘?,"“° E‘; g3"‘P”f°9P- rs

ing case was that the justice system is not perfect. nization dedicated to rebuilding Los Angeles. 55 cgny of 26 ,,:,‘,-§:an,‘)f‘;°e,,ng

pro9ed that 12 people in a box doesn’t mean But Ice—T’s message to the next generation also seems to 56 Ample 27 slides
I ocent or guilty,” he said. “America found’em say lighten up andbe tolerant. He kept his Radford audience 2% 3359' <;:o1r;‘i2 3: aim! h°l°in°

men on trial] guilty. They [the Jurors] found’em roaring in approval when he defended himself with blunt 59 Genzfgw 30 carry

’ talk against allegations of sexism. so so" pegs 31 section
ition to talking about hot public issues, Ice-T “There is a very gray area in feminism, a war between the 32 Festive
ut himself. feminist movement and other women,” he said. “Men are 1 ggrvczin word ﬁg g:{,“aFr‘°"s

' born in Newark,” he Said: €V0kln8 Scattered Pretty Cut and drY- Me“ Want 10 fuck You- 2 First place 38 Call, as a cab 45 Goldfish relative 49 Author Wiesel

“PlBl1se don't clap for fucking Newark.” “If you took the male sex drive away,  the economy of 3 Mellowed 39 Veer 46 ,J.ai - ' 50 Hawaiian bird
(1 his rriother died when he was in third grade and the entire world would collapse. None of these guys would 2 gfngsrgrlgd 2; 33"“-5 47 slecleer: —"W'lh 51 g§'g;9 and
when he was in seventh grade. He then went to an be in college . . . to make enough money to take care of your 6 No, now 44 Countedegt 43 D,,s,,,,,';,,, 53 wapm

 
 

Fancy Dress tickets and

memorabilia on sale next week

Monday — Thursday
9 a.m. — 3 p.m.
Friday
9 a.m. — 12 p.m.
113 University Center

  

 

Manager of

All letters of interest may

Needed: Editors and Business Managers of
University Publications
Positions Available: Editor & Business

Business Manager of the Calyx, Editor of
the Ariel, Editor of the Journal of Science,
and Editor of the Political Review.

   
    
     
   

Interviews - March 1, 1993

Letters of Interest for all other
publications due March 8, 1993;
Interviews - March 15,1993

    
   
    
   
    
    
  

The Ring-tum Phi, Editor &

‘ Ring—tum Phi

  

be turned into Carol Calkins in the University Center.

" 'Fl6r1d§"‘iSPRING'BRE‘AK

-IQ-Ir

.r

'17‘ J5 -9‘
THE LENFEST SERIES

presents

Tickets & Reservations 463-8000 0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday 1: _

_.§=.'i.: _§-E 31:3-33: Jr‘...

0 I993 Téathtrr lruurunc: and Annuity /l.r.rm'a1Ian/W Callegr Retirement  Fun).

" Can *nn’datt-.' 4 - Din k it A
Jansport day packs and book bags -

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

   
  

   

7 nights Beachfront
$139 — 159
Reserve rooms NOW
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

    
 

453-7969

 

/I S \
A l’Rl.\'Cll’l.l’.S of S()l.'Nl) Rli'l'lRl-L.\ll£N'l‘ lN\'l-1S'l‘l.\'(} N

UNFORTUNATELIQ THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality of life.

What else makes SRAS so special?
A range of allocation choices-—from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity--all backed

by the nation's number one retirement

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAS.
SRAS not only case your current tax-
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security beneﬁts may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on

system.

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF

SRAS can help you enjoy many

your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns.
Beneﬁt nmvﬁmn tax dcferml. Call our SRA both»: 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.
- 75 years of ensuring the future ‘'3
for those who shape itf" ‘°" ”’
K
\

 

PAGE 6

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

NEWS

  



 

W&L News Office

Jennifer Haily, ’95L, was one of nine law students who interviewed Haitian refugees in Florida.

Law students register refugees

By J .D. LOWRY
Phi Law School Writer

A group of Washington and Lee law students spent part
of their Christmas break helping Haitian refugees who
recently arrived in the United States.

Nine law students spent the first week of January in West
Palrri Beach, Fla., with the Haitian Refugee Project. The
students interviewed Haitian refugees and drafted their
applications for political asylum in the United States.

Third-year law student Moira Roberts, one of the orga-
nizers of the volunteers, brought the project to the attention
of the W&L chapter of the National Lawyers’ Guild.

“The NLG overwhelmingly supported the idea of going
to Florida over the semester break,” Roberts said. Nine
students, representing all three law classes, took part in the
project.

“Most of the refugees we interviewed were educated
community leaders and teenagers of prosperous families,”
third-year law student Monoka Venters said. “They were
the ones most targeted by the militants. Community ser-
vants who teach people how to read, write and vote —
services that are commendable in our country — target you
for death in the current Haitian regime.”

In preparation for the trip, students spent fall term study-
ing immigration law and issues relating to the refugees.
Once in Florida, students interviewed refugees for eight
hours a day. .

The refugees the students interviewed had already passed

two baths.

basement for recreation. Front and back decks. 12 miles
Southwest of Lexington. $600/month +deposit. Contact
Kenney’s Burger 463-5730 or call 463-2320.

House Available for Rent —

3 West Preston. Either two

apartments or the whole house -
four bedrooms, two kitchens,

Call 261-6478 after 6 p.m.

one stage of screening at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to deter-
mine whether or not they had legitimate claims for political
asylum.

For the refugees who had been allowed to proceed to
Florida, the students’ job was to make the best possible
argument for asylum in each refugee’s application.

First—year law student Stephan Montas, who speaks
fluent Creole because he is of Haitian descent, spent several
days helping other interpreters and interviewers.

The attorneys supervising the group gave them a goal of
27 refugees to interview during the week. The group sur-
passed the goal, filling out applications for 35 refugees.

But Roberts said she felt overwhelmed by the amount of
work that remained.

“The need for services is so great, but you don’t feel
satisfied because there’s so much left to do,” she said. “I felt
like a drop of water in the ocean.”

Roberts said the students will have no opportunity to
learn about the status of the refugees they interviewed, as the
asylum process takes many years.

Most of the cost of the project was covered by faculty and
church donations. Each participant contributed $25 toward
the cost of the trip.

The NLG paid for the students’ lodging and for interpret-
ers, a necessity since the refugees did not speak English.

The students returned to Lexington with different im-
pressions of their experiences.

“You had to turn off your feelings during the interviews,”
Roberts said. “But later, you got shivery thinking about the
plight of these people.”

Manning promotes Gaines’  

By GREGORY PATTERSON
Phi News Editor

University officials will increase the
number of single rooms in Gaines Hall
next year in an effort to attract more
students to the dormitory.

“We’re not scrambling or gnashin g
teeth or pulling out hair over Gaines,”
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning said. “We’re just ad-
justing to meet the market.”

But University Treasurer Larry
Broomall said financial considerations
also inﬂuenced the decisions.

“The occupancy rate in Gaines has
always been disappointing from a ﬁs-
cal standpoint,” Broomall said. “We ’re
still learning about the utility of Gaines,

IFC, SAC
ponder 
’93 Rush

RUSH, from page 1

we have to take into consideration the
other 15 houses.

“We also have always considered
faculty concerns and understand the
concerns they have had,” Washmon
said.

Atkins said caps on pledge class
sizes would be effective.

“ [Limitingpledge class sizes] would
be an incentive for fraternities to work
hard,” Atkins said.

“A little diversity isn’t bad, but
houses with 80 [members] and houses
with 20 [members] aren ’t a good idea,”
he said.

De'lt’s proposal has been presented
to the IFC twice and will be further
discussed at next week’s council meet-
mg.

The first presentation occurred at a
meeting of the IFC’s ad hoc Rush com-
mittee.

That committee unanimously voted
against discussing it.

But McCabe said the IFC’s wari-
ness will not deter Delt.

“We will get SAC to hear our pro-
posal even if it means hand delivering
the proposal to each member of the
SAC,” McCabe said.

and we’ve found that more and more
students want single rooms.”

Since it opened in September 1987,
Gaines has never reached its occu-
pancy of 230 people, according to the
university’s 1992-93 Fact Book.

The occupancy has ranged from 222
in 1988-89 to 165 in 1991-92, accord-
ing to the Fact Book. This year, 199
students live in Gaines.

Manning said only a small number
of double rooms are being converted to
single rooms.

“We looked at double rooms where
we felt the dimensions were constricted
for two people,” Marming said. “It’s
only a handful, not a sweeping
reconfiguration.”

Broomall saidanincrease in singles,
which cost more than doubles, will

mean more money for the university.

“We think the conversion may oc-
cupy enough rooms to reverse the rb
duced revenue expectations that we are
used to,” Broomall said.

Manning said he plans to market
Gaines better next year by telling fresh-
men about it early in the year.

“The challenge is, how do we deal
with the local real estate market?.”
Manning said. “Freshmen feel pres-
sured to contact agents and sign leases
early. I bet one-third of the freshman
class has signed leases [for the next
year] by November.”

Manning said he hopes to hold open
houses in Gaines next year so fI'€Sl’Il’I1C‘I
have a chance to see on-carnpus living.

“We want to demonstrate that liv-
ing on campus can be wonderful.”

Tree-hugger

Abandoned by a cherrypicker, Washington and Lee
groundsman Christopher Wise prunes the upper reaches of a
tree outside the University Center on Monday. Buildings and
Grounds worked on winter pruning campuswide this week.

2 New Houses built with students in mind Sp;-in g Break ;
4 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, Modern Kitchen, Large Living Area, C ANC UN, N A S 5 AU
Washer/Dryer, Stove, Refrigerator, and Central Heat. Full from $299

Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

Cape Cod House for Rent - One or *
Two Year Lease. Located on Rt. 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,
dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

CN
EX'1‘RA INCOME NOW!

 
   
 

Free Details: SASE to

International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.

 

P ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week -

Brooklyn, New York 11230

  

 
 

   

SPANKY’S is now looking for
Wait Staff; Deli
Cooks, Bartenders.
Come join a winning team -
And have fun, too!!

can $25
on COLLEGE.

   

(703) 463-2166 A

THE ARMY CAN HELP YOU

200 EDGE

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to
$25,200 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill Plus the Army
 V. College Fund.

The government then con-

tributes its share, $9,600 from

_, the Montgomery GI Bill plus
.. $14,400 from the Army Col-

Army opportunities get
better every day. If you qualify, you could train in one of over
250 challenging and rewarding high-tech skills in ﬁelds like
avionics and electronics, satellites and microwave communica-
tions, computer and radar operations-just to name a few.

It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

}tI§{)e’: h§1";’)(i)t W°rkSt'hlf{°“ 11 W. Nelson Street

COD U E‘ a H1011 OI” ‘ ‘ ' ’

the ﬁrst year from your 3630 Lexington, Virginia 24450
plus monthly starting salary. '

ypt glw 

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

 
  

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom
combination. Private Bath. 10-month
lease. Singles only. Call 463-3835

1.5-. I u

 Four bedroom house for 
 rent for next school year. 
" Call 463-5383 "

  

_,._ -.-.r..-.- .-- -.-.-.--i.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.5-.5.-.-.-.-.

Borden Commons Condo
For Sale By Owner

Two Bedroom, Two bath, Living room, Dining room,

Kitchen, Utility room, Storage area, stove, refrig.,
washer/dryer, microwave, Central heat & air, wall to
wall carpeting, no garage tax.

 

Robby Jones
(703) 463-2022

  

r---
i FREE r
l TAN PASS l

' Limit One Coupon Per Person I
New Customers Only '

"""l

    

 

r----"'1

Lexingion crossing Shopping center (Next To wal-Mari) 464-TANS (8267)

| February special |

I
| only $2900 |
| New... Newllne Wolie Beds |

I Limit One Coupon Per Person I
L New Customers Only

   
       
         
   

E.- Nelson St., Lexington

Valley 

Hardware, Paint and Related Items.

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m. / Sun. i—5 p.m.

463-2186

CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturda 10 to 5

31 S. Main St., Lexington 46 -3355

UNTV

$RSlITY

  
 

SPQRTWEAR

15 VV. VVASHINCSTCDN ST
LEXINCETQN. VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

  
   

 

0
The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1993

 

HEIIISTBGTBI The Fancy Dress
P Committee invites you
SAVE soc PER PACKAGE       

SMITHFIELD
I E§jb’3'*“"-3;‘

SLICED
* BACON

16 OZ.
0 ’ .
if 

9 U.$.D.A. CHOICE -II '
BONELESS '- "

CHUCK   
" ROAST .................... .. LB.

“FEET? ""”' 'c’¢':'c'A5$’¢'>‘L‘Ii°"   Friday, March ,

.    duringthe day to View
F   the FD decorations.

     
  

  

 

 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  

20 OZ. NRB.

 

 

  

  
  

   

.... .. " ""’   “””  
THE    i
L 
StudentAtivitiesBoard 
9  
_   _ O PIZZA ........ ..6.8—7.6 oz.  . 
"  ‘,«»VD USAII SHAMPOO, CONDITIONER OR STYLING AIDS  PTCSCH tS  
H PERMA SELECTED I  
REG|51'ER to Wm [N SOFT ....... ...V.*.‘.’?!?.T.’.E..5. .... ..3-t5OZ. ' '
HARRIS TEETER'S PRESIDENT'S CHOICE HOT OR MILD 
|=|.v WITH THE SALSA 2/3

5
Z
S
3
T
I-u
3
‘:5

PICANT E .......... .. 15.5 OZ.
- H O   PRESIDENT'S CHOICE BLUE CORN
sw£EPs'rAKEs TORTILLA 
You Could Win One Of These Fabulous CHIPS .................. .. 7 OZ. O

Prizes. See Details And Register At The
Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter. VALUABLE COUPON

., 0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando 9 oz PACKAGE 0':

tl‘:.';t‘.‘,‘.f.‘:t..‘.t‘:.?.‘:n‘:.Y.:‘:§‘..‘Uf;‘.“t‘:: MICHELINA '5 E
MAC & CHEESE

Accommodations And Game Tickets.
2 EACH

in the

Troubadour
Thursday, Februairy 25 at 8 p.m.  
Sunday, February 28 at 3 & 6 p.m.§ 

 

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte, I
' N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes I
0 Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations. I

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call l-800-274-70 0 For More Details

 

-. -  »§;-»*.é».i‘.~a».»‘.;l-.iv‘.-r.«;e.ir.>e.-; ;;;:f+. '**-"*"*-*‘T-'°'-*~e

 

On How To Win. AND
0 One Pair Of ‘Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away l£l':)ils’Cc:1up;):1Phk/’\:y1(:\:Etﬁl:LTg>fl6;cgg_Akirr:i:1?r;1e FLU 2969 I  
. In Each Harris Teeter For March/ April Games. |rF’:kr)c(li‘:’:]:«;-.2<3H;:5‘)o3ood February 1'7. mm FROZEN   
Find Details And Register At The Coke ‘ ' '5

Can |
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter. ﬁjffgiﬂuj nuns‘ ' GJ

_ VALUABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON

68.7 so. FT. ROLL or 6.12 oz. CAN or I

 



sun Iasr CHUNK|  

I LIGHT TUNA 
I I * 
I \f¢§ﬁ§g\ I e?
..,w em, {E

- 43, 9‘ 23

| uﬁff " A I -. ‘
».a._:' S ‘:5

DELTA PAPER
TOWELS

    

   

VWTH
3720 COUPON

WITH ‘ 
mi coupon EACH § §

EACH .
l This Cou Ma Not Be R roduced. Li_m_it One PLU 2980 I This Cou n Me Not Be R roduced. Limit One pLU 298] I 5 < M h 4 t 8 O 
%:::::§§P::°e...“°rV¥2r.§.f;‘Ws“'"‘“'" Nrsoaocerev %::R::f%t::“?;:::”¥:tf'§.%;‘T-m"'"““"‘ oszoceav ~‘  are a - Pom-
Felaruary 23, l 993 February 23, l 993

 

   _::tfW°.:a.:*L°”%l Q} j in the

Prir. :-. This Ad Eltective Wednesday February 17 Throu uesdoy, February 23, T99 . In LexinOl0n Stores

' . / We l’!:‘I3rve The Right To Limit Quantities. None ld To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food stumps.

Prices Effective Throu h Februar 23, 1993  Pavlllon

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Bball- R—MC 79,W&L 48 (5-19)
MSwim- 3rd at Sothern States (9-0)
WSwim- 2nd at Atlantic States (8-3)
Wrestle— Longwood 45,W&L 12 (4-6)

PAGE 8

S

@112 ‘iﬁirtg-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK&F|ELD

This Week:

IT- ODAC Champ. at VMI (M&W) 2/27
MLax- at St. Mary’s,Md. 2/27

WLax- at Guilford 3/3

Base- West Va. Tech 2/27-28 1pm
MTen-CNC 2/26 3pm;RC&GC 2/27 9am
WTen- at Sweet Briar 3/1

FEBRUARY 25, 1993

Five swimmers
qualify for NCAA
national meet

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s swim teams
train all season so that their best
performances come at the end of
the season, when they really mean
something.

Well, this season wasn’t any
different.

In the Southern States Cham-
pionships, aDivision
I meet at Davidson
College, the men
placed third overall,
winningthree events.

In the Atlantic
States/Old Dominion
Athletic Conference
Championships, the
W&L women fin-
ished second in the
ASC, but only third
in the ODAC because
of a different scoring system that
hurt them for not having a larger
squad.

The women swam away with
an incredible 17 victories in the
meet’s 18 events.

In addition to compiling 11
best times for the season, W&L
also set an amzing six school

records.

Freshman Rebekah Prince has
already left an indelible mark on
W&L swimming. She was one
of four Generals to win three
events at the meet and was named
the ASC/ODAC Swimmer ofthe
Year.

The team’s coach, Kiki
Jacobs, didn’t have to enter the
pool, but was awarded the ODAC
Coach of the Year award.

Jacobs, in her second season
as the team’s head coach, had to
lead the eight—swimmer team
against competition that usually
had much larger rosters.

Nonetheless, her women man-
aged an 8-3 record, 3-0 in the
ODAC.

In addition to Prince, senior
captain Claire Dudley, sopho-
mores Susan Fisher and Brandi
Henderson each won three ASC/
ODAC events. Those four
teamed up fora win and a school
record in the 200—medley relay.

Dudley posted NCAA Cham-

W&L’s boys of spring

 

Rowe

pionships qualifying times in the
100 and‘200-breaststroke, leav-
ing behind school records of
1:09.29 and 2:29.40, respec-
tively.

Prince qualified in the 100-
backstroke, 200-backstroke, and
200-Individual Medley, all in
school—record times.

The W&L men, who are still
9-0, had three swimmers post
NCAA consideration times:
Freshman Craig
Sears won the 200-
individualmedley,
senior Andrew
Pearson in his cus-
tomary role as
speed demon in the
50-freestyle, and
sophomore John
Roweoontinuedan
excellent second
campaign with a
solid time in the

400-IM.

The Generals best showing
came in the 200-freestyle relay.
The foursome of Pearson, senior
Chris Hagge, sophomore Roland
Chase and freshman David
Stillman finished the race in
1:26.21.

The men posted 17—season
best times in the meet.

Next up are the National Col-
legiate Athletic Championships.

Claire Dudley and Rebekah _

prince will travel to some place
in the United States the weekend
of March 11-13.

Dudley will cap off her bril-
liant four years by competing in
two races. It will be the fourth
trip for Dudley to Nationals. In
1990, she swam away from the
meet as an All—American in the
l00—breaststroke.

Meanwhile Prince will close
out an outstanding freshman year
by vying for national recognition
of her own in three events.

Prince has already established
three school records in her rookie
season: the 100 and 200—back,
and the 200—IM.

For the men, Sears, Pearson
and Rowe will make the trek
across the U.S. to some great
swimming bastion to try for All-
America status the weekend of
Mar. 18-20.

 

Assistant coach Tim Downes watches as the men's lacrosse team practices its offensive attack.

Lacrosse prepares for run -

IO POSISGEISOI1 tournamen

By SEAN O’RoURkE
Phi Sports Editor

Head Washington and Lee
men’slacrosse coach Jim (don’t
call me Vince) Stagnitta is ex-
cited.

“Why?” you ask. Just take a
look at his 1993 lacrosse team.
Need I say more?

Stagnitta is in the enviable
position of having talented, ex-
perienced players and talented
young players to work with.

He has assembled a solid
team with 13 seniors and jun-
iors, and 24 sophomores and
freshmen.

“We have a nice group of
kids this year,” Stagnitta said.
“We have a good combination
of experienced players and
young ones.”

That combination gives the
Generals what they lacked last
year, depth.

“We now have real good
depth,” Stagnitta said.

“Last year we had a patch-
work midﬁeld. This year we
can plug in four or five solid
players.”

The one place the Generals
are probably the most solid is in
the defensive end of the field.

W&L is anchored by senior

tri—captain Josh Levinson. He is
joined by senior standout Kirk
Olsen and sophomore Shaun
McKenzie.

Stagnitta realizes that the
team’s strength lies with this
unit.

“We definitely
have five real good
and experienced
kids. Levinson,
Olsen and
McKenzie are a real
good unit. All of
them are good ath-
letes.”

The Generals’
real depth is with the
midﬁeld. The team
has a number of players that
will play and we maintain a con-
sistent level of play.

The two other tri-captains are
midfielders. Last year’s top
scorer, senior John Hunter, will
again be looked upon to pro-
duce. Hunter ﬁnished the sea-
son with 20 goals and 16 assists.

Classmate, and the third tri-
captain, Dave Schiminger also
has the offensive skills to put up
some big numbers. Schiminger
ended the 1992 campaign with
15 goals and eight assists.

Junior Colin Higgins is the
third member of the midfield
trio who will be counted upon

 

Hunter

for goals. Higgins had an excel-
lent sophomore year, ﬁnishing
with 21 goals and eight assists.

If there is one area the team
might have any problems it
could be on attack. Not because

the team doesn’t <

have the talent, but
because it lacks the
one player who can
get the offense to
produce, sort of
like the point guard
in basketball.

The Generals
do have enough tal-
ent to score big. At-
tack is the thinnest
area when it comes
to depth, but with seniors Wiemi
Douoguih and David
Lefkowitz, and sophomore
Andy Dutton the Generals are
not wanting for offense.

Douoguih led the trio with
33 points (25 goals, 8 assists).
Lefkowitz and Dutton finished
with identical stats, 18 goals
and six assists.

“We have three scorers——
Wiemi [Douoguih], [David]
Lefkowitz and [Andy] Dutton—-
but we don’t have a quarter-
back, someone to set-up the of-
fense. But that area will im-
prove as the year goes on,”
Stagnitta said.

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

O

The Generals jump head first
into this new season, as three of
the first ﬁve games are against
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence opponents, including a big
home game against Roanoke.

The team hasn’t played a
“real” game yet, but they have
scrimmaged a number of Divi-
sion III powers for the past
month or so; Stagnitta thinks
this actually gives the Generals
an edge.

“We’ve scrimmagedwithpe-
rennial dominant Division III
teams and we held our own,”
Stagnitta said. “We’ve prepared
really well—and the scrim-
mages allowed us to use every-
body against good competition.
So the team is prepared for the
teams on our schedule.”

And what a schedule it is.
The Generals have their most
difﬁcult stretch of the season in
the beginning.

Luckily, four of the ﬁrst six
games are at Wilson Field.

It begins with the second
game of the season. W&L starts
off with unpredictable ODAC
foe, Randolph-Macon College.

Franklin & Marshall is up
next, followed by W&L’s most
intense rival, Roanoke College
and finally Lynchburg College.
Both ODAC games could have

significent impact on the rest of
the season..

The final test comes when
the team travels to Pennsylva-
nia to take on lacrosse—power,
Gettysburg. '

After Gettysburg, W&L is
on the road for five of its last
eight.

Stagnitta thinks the team’s
postseason could be decided in
the series of games starting with
Randolph-Macon and ending‘
with Lynchburg.

“The first four will decide
the fate of our postseason. If we
can come out of them in good
shape lthink we’ll have a chance
to make the postseason tourna-
merit.”

One ﬁnal note before I le9
you ponder this team’s chances.
After 50 meetings, going back
to 1947, the University of Vir-
ginia has been dropped from
this year’s schedule.

Stagnitta says it will not be a
permanent omission, but addﬁ
that not starting the year off
with an almost sure loss is a
good thing.

“It is nice not to start the year
with a loss. It’s a good draw for
the kids, with a lot of tradition
and history. g

“Butthe game really doesn’t
affect our season.”

By K1-:rnr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Fifteen—nothing. Thirteen-five. Twelve-
nothing. Eighteen-one.

Those are just a few of the scores from the
1992 Washington and Lee baseball season.
Unfortunately, the Generals’ run totals are on
the right.

However, after a 4-21 season, there are few
places to go but up, and that seems to be where
the ’93 Generals will head.

Although most of the Generals hardly have
the experience of corporals (there is only one
junior and one senior), there are plenty of
welcome additions and some key returnees.

Following a season in which the pitching
staff posted an 8.74 Earned Run Average (in
English, that means roughly nine runs per
gamel), head coach Jeff Stickley is pleased to
have a pitcher returning whose ERA was 4.09.
Brett Hartman pitched exclusively in relief, but
he’ll be called upon to anchor a highly inexpe-
rienced staff.

Hartman, a sophomore, was 0-1, but did not
allow an earned run over his last 10.1 innings,
covering his ﬁnal five appearances. Classmate
Bates Brown will join Hartman in trying to turn
around the mound performances. Brown was
second on W&L in starts last year and was one
of four Generals that each won one game in ’92.

The two sophs will be joined by several
freshmen hopefuls, led by Graig Fantuzzi.
Fantuzzi was 8-1 with a 1.67 ERA a year ago for
Toms River South High School, the New Jersey

  

 

state championship team. Fantuzzi is joined by
fellow football teammate, quarterback Geren
Steiner, who will help secure some much needed
depth.

One area that the Generals seem sure to be
strong in is offense. Last year’s team home run
leader, third baseman Duane Van Arsdale, re-
turns for his second season at W&L. Van
Arsdale, another member of the Generals’ foot-
ball squad, led the Generals last year in homers
(4), runs scored (19), walks (19), and slugging
average (.5 20). He was also second in batting at
.320.

Van Arsdale will team with classmate Todd
Stanton (.328) to try to light up the Smith Field
scoreboard—but on the Generals’ side, this
season. Stanton, who played for the Georgia
state championship team in high school, will
probably do most of the catching. Junior Chad
Loizeaux is a solid defensive catcher and will
provide a steady backup.

The squad’s only senior and the Generals’
captain is shortstop Jon Hesse. Hesse was ﬁfth
on the team in hitting last year with a .267 clip,
tied with sophomore Erik Treese. Hesse, an
excellent shortstop, hit .323 as a freshman and
hopes to return to that form in his final season.

The Generals will hope for another quick
start as they host West Virginia Tech this week-
end at Smith Field. The season opens with a
double-header on Saturday, with the ﬁrst game
scheduled for 1 p.m. The third game had been
scheduled for Friday, but will be played on
Sunday afternoon.

Play Ballli

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and MasterCard@
credit cards..“in your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA0 and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for— ID—BOOKS——DI-ZPARTMENT
STORES-—TUiTION-ENTERTAINM ENT-
EMERGENCY (YtSH-—TICKETS—RESTAURAN'IS—
HOTELS—MOTELS—CAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

No credit
No security deposit!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

It appears as if Wilson Moore is more than ready to run wild
in Bermuda come November. Moore and his fellow Generals
will get a taste of the tropics when they take Georgetown in
the Bermuda National Stadium on Nov. 20.

 

Football team

 

Photo bydamesort Leonardi, The Fi/ng-tum Phi

I
12111"-—-D-XX--22221211

in Berm

By SEAN O’RoURKr2
Phi Sports Editor

Note to the incoming Ring-tum
Phi sports editor:

If you have an iota of brain
mass in your head, cover the foot-
ball team next year!

The Washington and Lee foot-
ballteam willmakehistoryonNov.
20 when the Generals take on the
Georgetown Hoyas.

It won’t be because the Hoyas
are moving to Division I-AA in the
upcoming season.

It won’t be because it’s the 25th
meeting between W&L and
Georgetown.

No. It will be because the two
teams will participate in the first
college football game ever played
in...Berrnuda.

You read it right, and no this is
not an early article for the April
Fools’ edition of the paper.

The game will take place the
third Saturday in November at the

  

to make history
uda -

Bermuda National Stadium.

The schools will also challenge
each other in a debate on Friday
night, Nov. 19. The topic of the
competition will be, “Colleges that ,
depend on revenues from athktic
departrnents—Does this affect the
school’s educational mission?”

Not really relevant to W&L,
Georgetown is a totally different
subject, but an interesting topic

nonetheless.

There will also be contestsﬁfor
alumni of both institutions. All the
alumni competitions will be kept
track of, and those scores will added
to the ones earned in the debate and

football game.

The school with the highest
cumulative total wins the ﬁrst—ew:r,

Bermuda Bowl Cup.

The Generals are fortunate to
be part of this inaugural event be-
cause the Bermuda Bowl will be
an annual competition between

Division I-AA schools.

So can everyone say—.JEAJ.-

OUS.

 

   
 
 
 

NOTE: Mastaﬂnrd is a registered tnderrark d’ Mmtcrchrd Intematioml Inc.
Visa is a registered tndclrnrk ofVI$A USA. Inc In! VISA lntcrnatfornl
Services Assucluion.

: STUDENT SERVICESIBOX 1792lI.PLANTAIION.FL 3331 -E
:   IwantVISA®/MASTERCARDQCredlt :
I Cards. Endosed [Ind S 5 which is 100% refundable if not I
I approved lrnrnediateiy. I
I I
' NAME I
: ADDRESS :
I CITY STATE.._ZIP I
: PHONE s.s.v : I
: SIGNATURE ~ :
I I
I I
E. .'

100°/o GUARANTEED!

crudiotronics

AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO

DENON SONY tar
ADCOM ALPINE

TOSHIBA MARANTZ

KEF cwo

BOSTON DEFINITIVE
KLIPSCH BAZOOKA

' SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

' BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

‘ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

' MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Road ;
Overlooking Tanglcwood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Ru.-rmwkc

 

,.  =52...

 

 

 

  

ha

ariety is the major theme in
music for this year’s Fancy
Dress.

The fun begins Wednes-
day at 4 p.m. in the Dell,
where the Interfratemity
Council will sponsor

Jackopierce, an acoustic duet out of Hous-
ton, Texas. Cary Pierce and Jack O'Neil
met at Southern Methodist University,
where both were theatre majors. The pair’s

music has been compared to that of The ‘T '

Indigo Girls and early Crosby, Stills, Nas
and Young.

“Someday You’ll 1,1
“J ackopierce,” under 
Records label. Pierce
opened for such stars
The Neville Brothers
Suzanne Vega.

The Student Activities _
Fancy Dress Committee have-
bands offering distinct sounds Th
and Friday nights.

The Pavilion will rock Thursday night
with The Dave Matthews Band, opening
for The Fabulous Thunderbirds.

A regular every Tuesday night at Trax

 

Supplement Editor — Joyce Bautista
Cover and center spread art —
Deirdre Denechaud, Amy Jefferson
and Lillis Allison

Ke|ly’s

   
 

Q
  or  

 

in Charlottesville, The Dave Matthews
Band has a sound that Matthews calls “dis—
tinctly American.” Very popular on the
college circuit, Matthews drew crowds at
W&L’s Superdance this year.

With hits like “Tuff Enough” and “Pow-
erful Stuff,” The Fabulous Thunderbirds
should keep everyone moving with their
classic rock ’n’ blues sound. Known for

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  

utrageous harmonica play-
"irds will definitely provide an

 
   
  
   
  

__ ebig gym,FD veteran
. the swing band for the
. thumbs-up approval from
tkins, the music will certainly
xmprre‘  “ball-goers to dance the night away.
In the small gym, the eccentric and wild
New Rhythm Blues Quartet, known as
N.R.B.Q., will entertain with their covers
of Little Richard, Jerry Lee Lewis and Ray
Charles, among others, as well as their
own music. N.R.B.Q. plays a blend of
blues, jazz, rockabilly and pop with an
unorthodox style.
The group’s original tunes include
“Ridin’ In My Car,” “Wacky Tobacky”
and “Green Lights.”

Corner

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

All Of Your Fancy Dress

and Party

Supplies

At The Best Prices.

As Always, We Provide The
Best Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days 463-5452

Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

 

 FANCY DRESS '93

 

 

Join us for Fancy Dress...
All Weekend Long!.'
Enjoy Food and
Beverage Specials!

Take $2 Off all En trees
(All Entrees already below $8.’!

We ’ll see you then!

 
  
 

 

 

 
 

  

giant marquee with the words
“Welcome to the 86th An-
nual Fancy Dress Ball” greets
ball-goers on the island be-
tween Doremus Gymnasium
and the freshman dorms.

Past the marqueed island, the trees give
way to giant spotlights sweeping the sky.

A red carpet leads from a limousine to
the stairs of the gym.

An enormous marquee above the doors
transforms the Doremus Gymnasium en-
trance into the front of an old-time movie
theatre.

Through the doors, the
red carpet continues into
the hallway, decorated
with framed movie post-
ers, palm trees, red cur-
tains and an oversized
Oscar.

 

Bv KRISTIN LAWRENCE
Phi Contributing Writer ;

On the rightside of the gym,an 18-foot-
high, Old West town, complete with a
saloon, haystack and wagon, comprises the
“True Grit” theme.

Past the “Casablanca” and “True Grit”
sets, eight-foot directors’ chairs separate
the front and back scenes.

The swing band plays on a platform at
the back of the gym.

To the left of the band, Atlanta burns as
it did in “Gone with the Wind.”

A field of lilies and poppies to the right
of the band represents the “Wizard of Oz.”

Each set in the gym
stands on risers, so ball-
goers in every area of the
gym have a view.

On thebalcony, moun-
tain peaks with the “Hol-
lywood” sign set the
background for an out-

While in past years the
hallway outside the ath-
letic department office has been closed, the
1993 Fancy Dress Committee added a new
twist.

The hallway this year is filled with pop-
corn machines and vendors.

Entering the big gym, the “Casablanca”
set is on the left.

A piano, table and chairs depict a scene
at Rick’s Cafe. Steps lead to Rick’s apart-
ment.

door cafe called “Mt.
Cafe.”

The small gym has the look of a Ginger
Rogers and Fred Astaire dance set.

Large,silver palm trees, lights and chan-
deliers surround the gym.

On the wall above the band N.R.B.Q.,
movie scenes are projected throughout the
night.

After N.B.R.Q. stops playing at 1 a.m.,
the circling spotlights outside the gym her-
ald a fireworks display.

F

  App

K

Get tanned for FD \

at MarIene’s Hairstyling &
Tanne1y- Wolff tanning beds -
10 Visits for $40

Let Our Stylists get you ready
for that Special Night with

Styles and Manicures.

ointments available or drop

by 25 N. Main St.

J

 

ljtttttts’

Fast Expert

PC  
Prlnters by
IBM
Star
Panasonlc  
Canon

Pictures
Gone With 3 Th e
the wind 0 mp Wizard of Oz
O 0 Dance Floor 0 O 0
Casablanca ""9 Gm
Statuette Pcpcom
MAIN ENTRANCE Ve"d°'
Entering
the Silver
Screen
NRBQ
Ginger Rogers
and Fred Astaire

STUDENT
DISCOUNTS
UP TO 20%

Servlce

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

 

njust over 100 years, movie—mak—
ing has exploded into a
multimillion—dollar industry and

worldwide cultural inﬂuence.
With the advancement of tech-
nology in the late 19th century,
film-making was born, and a new

era of mass communications began.

By 1895, the French were viewing the
first brief motion pictures created by the
Lumiere brothers.

One of the first innovations in the devel~
opment of the motion picture was the
Vitascope, a projection system created by

Thomas Edison and Thomas Annat.

a machine which displayed films for
one viewer at a time.
These inventions were
merely a prelude to a film-
making on a larger scale. In
1896, New Yorkers saw the
first public motion pictures
in America.
One-reelers, 10-minute
films, were developed
in 1903; they were
followed by the cre-
/' ation of makeshift
theatres, called nick-
elodeons, in 1905.

 

Edisonalso invented the Kinetoscope ,_

The History of

Harry P. Davis and John P. Harris rented
films, bought a projector, piano and screen,
and charged five cents for admission to their
theatre, “The Nickelodeon.”

The success of these theatres spread dra-
matically. By 1910, 10,000 nickelodeons
were operating in the United States.

While the nickelodeon brought enter-
tainment to the nation’s poor, moviemakers
built extravagant theatres and publicized
stars, such as Charlie Chaplin, to increase

   

  
 
 
   
   

 

U H motio picturetechn dgy
_-d tenfold with the marriage of sound

Warner Brothers created the first of the

' “talkies”when itsignedwith AT&T in 1926

to produce “The Jazz Singer.” AT&T’s
sound system allowed for a few songs and a
few minutes of dialogue.

The 1930s were the golden age of mov-
ies. Unlike the preceding decade, this era
produced films that appealed to the entire
family.

The 50-cent admission, in a time when
not much else cost so little, made movies the
most popular form of mass entertainment.

In 1946, moviegoers bought 90 million
tickets weekly, but sales drastically declined
with the rise of television.

To draw crowds back to the theatres,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

~--- Tables
Candelabra
Punch Bowls
Coolers
Tents
Dance Floors
Tuxedos
Linens
Ribbons
Balloons
Dresses
. ’ Wedding Coordinating

Flatware  .. f“ 27‘ D°s'9"

Servingware .-

Silver

China

Chafing Dishes

Glassware

Charrpagna Fountains '

Skirting /

Coffee Urns ,

Coffee Makers 1,’ >,

Portable Ba ' _/

 

Totalfy Tartiiliiiiiiiental Service

464-5720 US Hwy. 11 North Lexington, VA

Fancy Dress Specials

Q Shrimp & Scallop Scampi - $11.95

Chicken Marsala — $10.25
Both Served with Spaghetti, Salad & Bread

NEW!

Group Take-out Dinners - You can
serve your own dinner, complete with
Salad, Garlic Bread & Dessert. You
can feed a group of your friends for
as low as $5.00 a person. Call us at
least 24 hours in advance, and see
what we can do for you.

 

  
 

moviemakers increased color, violence, sex,
horror, special effects and 3-D.

Movies regained status and peaked in
1982, when weekly ticket sales rose to 22
million.

Today, the industry en-

  
  

joys the success and profit Cane” as the top film in the
of movie rentals for home history of the motion pic-
VCR showings. ture industry.

Washingt n and Lee's He saidnoteworthy films
 , Pro- over the past few years in-
fes*§”Ei:r Iiiiirrialis hn clude “Goodfellas,” “Pla—

Jennings, said that great
breakthroughs in the mo-
tion picture industry came
fromthe genius of the film-
makers, such as D.W. Griffith and Sergei
Eisenstein.

Griffith exploited the cinema for narra-
tive purposes in his film “Birth of aNation.”
It was the first Amercian film in long form,
and Griffith used original techniques to
create a visual narrative.

Eisenstein, a Soviet filmmaker, com-
bined Marxist ideals and the motion picture
to create a film which illicited intellectual
and emotional responses from the audience.

Although most critics consider “Gone
With the Wind” to be the number one film
of all time, Jennings said, it “really did
nothing in terms of film as a means of

 

 

  

BY CAMERON HUDDLESTON
.,P ' taff Writer

A traditional gathering place for Fancy Dress Weekend.
Dinner specials Friday and Saturday nights. And for a
great ending to an unforgettable weekend, join us for

Sunday Brunch starting at 12 noon.

expression.

“Good films have been produced in ev-
ery period. Maybe our memory tricks us
into thinking certain films were better than
they were,” Jennings explained.

Jennings ranked “Citizen

 

toon,” “Avalon,” “Miller's
Crossing” and “Raising Ari-
zona.”

According to the American Film Institute, the top 10
films of all time are:
1. Gone With the Wind (1939)
2. Citizen Cane (1941)
3. Casablanca (1942)
4. The African Queen (1952)
5. The Grapes of Wrath (1940)
6. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975)
7. Singing in the Rain (1952)
8. Star Wars (1977)
-9. 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)
10. The Wizard of 02 (1939).

 

ﬁﬁfrﬁﬁﬁikﬁﬁﬁﬁikﬁﬁirikfrﬁﬁﬁ

Have A Great

Fancy
Dress!

from

W

More than
Just a Gift Shop...

21 Nelson Street, West
Downtown Lexington
463-7222

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

  
     
 

hen the Fancy Dress Committee chose Gable as tl
movies to represent this year’s FD Product
theme,“CelebratingtheSilverScreen,” dircctedby
they selected four endearing classics: nine major
“Gone With the Wind,” “Casablanca,” a black pr
“The Wizard of Oz” and
“True Grit.”

“When we started talking about mov-
ies as a possible theme, we started talking
about older movies versus newer mov-
ies,” FD Committee Chairman Virginia
Reeves said. “We wanted classic movies
that everyone would know and appreci-
ate. We wanted movies that were classics
of their time.”

“Gone With the Wind” is perhaps the
most famous of the four movies. It premiered in 1939, lanta, and
and was one of the highest grossing films in history. arresting a

The story of the trials and tribulations of a young the glow c
woman during the CivilWar era, adapted from Margaret look and k
Mitchell’s novel, “Gone With the Wind” starred Vivien -—**‘
Leigh as the unforgettable Scarlett O’Hara and Clark

 

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

\

"\

\

3-$1:

  

I’ ‘
v’ ‘N
4" ‘Q
o /"—_“~,
o ’,’ l‘
I
I

N

s
\

v

0

C
\
\
\ _ s

. k\\

 

,/

 

ittee chose
year’s FD
er Screen,”
lg classics:
lsablanca,”

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

ed in 1939,
1 history.

of a young
11 Margaret
rred Vivien
l and Clark

 

 

 

  
 

Gable as the incorrigible Rhett Butler.

Produced by movie mogul David O. Selznick and
directed by Victor Fleming, “Gone With the Wind” won
nine major Oscars, including the first Oscar awarded to
a black performer (Hattie McDaniel, for her role as
Mammy).

The most difficult task in making the
movie was finding an actress who could
fill the formidable shoes of Miss Scarlett.
After two years and 2,000 auditions,
Selznick still had not found an actress,
and filming actually began before the
role had been cast.

Selznick met Leigh, the fiancee of
Laurence Olivier, by chance on the set
during the filming of the burning of At-
lanta, and described his first view of her as “a vision of
arresting and electric beauty . . . her exquisite face lit by
the glow of the dying fires.” He later said, “I took one
look and knew that she was right . . . l’ll never recover

‘A’ See FILMS, page 11

 

 

 

 

    

DRESS '93

'(__'§{’:@ 

exington residents enjoyed a
rare taste of Hollywood Feb. 5

with the premiere of
“Sommersby,” a multimillion
dollar movie filmed mostly in
Bath County, Va., and partly in
downtown Lexington.

The film, called “vicariously dreamy”
by USA Today, received applause from
critics in national publications, as well as
from Lexington residents. “Sommersby”
stars Richard Gere and Jodie Foster, who
also received high praise.

The town provided several festivities to
celebrate the “Sommersby” premiere, in-
cluding a gala with commemorative tickets
and horse-drawn carriages for local resi-
dents who participated in the filming.

“It was great fun,” said Diane Herrick of
the Lexington Downtown Development
Association.

  

Phtos by Rick Peltz, The R/ng-tum Phi

A horse-drawn carriage takes local residents who were extras in the movie
to see the premiere at the state Theatre.

 

Many Washington and Lee students said
they enjoyed seeing the film.

“Sommersby was very well done with a
unique story that kept me thinking about it
after the movie was over,” freshman J en-
nifer Beam said.

The W&L student who was probably
most interested in the film’s premiere was
Chris Albert. He served as a location intern
for nine weeks during last summer’s shoot
of the production.

“When we filmed in Lexington, we had
to do everything from crowd control to
talking to shopkeepers to make sure they
knew what was going on,” Albert explained.
“We couldn't have any 20th-century activ-
ity in town.

“It’s a really beautiful, romantic story.
lt’s worth seeing just for the scenery,” said
Albeit, who helped with special effects on
the set. “A large portion of the people who

  
  

m;C,¢,,;;,GE Satin Shoes dyed in 1 hour
99¢ Shoe Shine with this ad

When Fancy Dress is over,
Rockbridge Music will still
be here, willing to cater to
all your musical needs.

Diana Madsen Schofield
205 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

    

at

       
      
   
 

 

Shoe Fixers 3 West Nelson St. 464-6666

 

Phone (703) 4535455

   

 

 

-Rent for $48.00 Basic
$52.00 Full Dress
-Buy for $235 - Including Free
Tux Shirt

 
 
 
  

5 NEW -
omsstcts

  

111 W. Nelson St.

No Deposit Charge Visa

    

For Your 1993 Fancy Dress TUXEDOS

(And Never Have To Rent Again)

COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

Mastercard Amex

   

 

 

I know came out of the movie in tears and

really enjoyed it.”

Albert was also an active participant in

the premiere events.

“The Lexington gala that
they organized was really
fun and attended by a very
diverse group of people —
older, younger, college kids,
a dean from W&L and
people from VMI,” Albert
said.

Albert said the highlight
of his experience was see-

ing his name in the credits at the end of the

film.

“I didn’t know whether or not it was
going to be there, and when I saw it, it made
nine weeks of really hard work well worth

it,” he said.
Albert said working on

was a rewarding experience.

“I was excited because the movie busi-

ness is definitely where I ’m headed, and to

be a 19-year-old sophomore and have your

 

BY MATTHEW DILLARD
Phi Staff Writer

first movie credit is really
great,” Albert said.

National publications
have joined in the praise for
“Sommersby.”

USA Today com-
mended the film for its
“graceful job of transfer-
ring the domestic dilemma
first posed in the French

import ‘The Return of Martin Guerre’ to

the post-Civil War South.”

Foster’s perfonnance won admiration.
“What sells the film isn’t the period
details or the lush shots of tobacco as high

“Sommersby”

it See ‘SOMMERSBY,’ page 10

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES. HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday through Saturday 10 to 5
31 S.Main St., Lexington 463-3355

0
’ 0
' 0
' 0
' 0
' 0
0 5 Pool Tables - 50¢ a game .
: Basketball :
0 Video Games .
: Pinball 0
. Air Hockey :
0 Snack Bar .
Q *Coming soon “Club Shark” Regulation size pool table. .
. Separate Room. Members Only. (Reservations, too! )* .
0 *Or1ly 50 feet from The Bone* .
0

  

 

 

Keith Gibsi she door f Ptlwohlrab as enter the State tr

 

the premiere. Gibson and Wohirab served as historical consultants for

‘Sommersby.'

 

Ever Get Somebodi
lotullrwastedi

 

FRIENDS UﬂN'l [El FRIENDS
DRIVE UHUNK.

U S. Department oi Transportation

§}Oi'..?ll' TIME

974?  C,\D--‘Q’

/. . .
"“"”"Nc',r'-rut vtRC*‘“\?s

20 South Randolph Street 463-6414;

 
   
 

pg 7.

.-.53 ‘ "*' ‘-*.’..».a- 3 "7f1"‘.’»"':3i'. -'=“‘

 

 

  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
  
 

    

.. I’/4“'V'!¥ -.v.

 

 

 

Playbill, fire

fter a year of absence, the
Playbill and fireworks will
once again be a part of the
Fancy Dress festivities.
To save money, neither
the Playbill nor the fire-
works were a part of Fancy Dress ’92.
“The Playbill was reintroduced because
it serves the important purpose of explor-
ing the theme, gives students, especially
the freshmen, a chance to learn about the
annual event, and helps everyone antici-
pate the festivities,” said junior Cameron
Howell, head of the Playbill Committee.
FD Chairman Virginia Reeves said she

and Vice Chairman Chip
Ridge thought the two
elements added to the
overall atmosphere of
Fancy Dress.

The Playbill, a small,
pamphlet—like book,
gives the history of FD,
explains the ball’ s theme, and describes the
decorations and the bands that will play
during the weekend.

In addition, the Playbill gives recogni-
tion to all of the people who helped orga-
nize and produce Fancy Dress.

“One change in the Playbill is that stu-

 

dents no longer have to purchase it, as they
have in past years. Instead, students will
receive it free when they
purchase tickets and other
Fancy Dress memora-
bilia,” Reeves said.
AlsoretumingtoFancy
Dress is the fireworks.
Reeves said the com-
mittee decided to include
ﬁreworks again because

they added to the overall atmosphere of

FD.
“They make Fancy Dress seem more
than just a small time prom and indicate a

Bv LISA JOHNSON
Phi Contributing Writer

 

 

big celebration,” she said.

In the past, the fireworks have not been
announced beforehand, and
many ball-goers have missed
them. This year, however,
the spectacle will be an-
nounced to gather a large
crowd of spectators. The first
fireworks will explode at 1
a.m., after the bands stop
playing at the dance.

“The fireworks will be the grand finale
of the ball,” Reeves said. “It will be like the
apple dropping in Times Square on New
Year's Eve.”

 

Hollywood visits Lexingt.

if ‘SOMMERSBY’, from page 9

as Abraham Lincoln’s eye,” according to
USA Today. “lt’s the sheer, unadulterated
pleasure of watching a cameo-lovely Jodie
Foster go all giddy over prodigal hubby
Gere.”

Rolling Stone agreed. “Foster is ex-
traordinary. It’s not the dialogue, but
Foster’s eloquent eyes that tell us whether
Laurel is giving herself to a husband or to
a con-man who has won her bniised heart.”

In a Warner Brothers press release, Fos-
ter described her character of Laurel as

tough, stubborn, proud and rebellious.

“She is an unconventional woman in an
era guided by convention,” Foster said of
her character. “So she is thoroughly pri-
vate, someone who betrays very little of
who she really is in order to safeguard
herself, her vulnerability, her desires.”

CriticsalsopraisedGere’sperforrnance.
“This is Gere’s most passionate perfor-
mance since ‘An Officer and A Gentle-
man,’” Rolling Stone said.

“Each character lives consciously or
subconsciously with a mask. It is the
falling off of the masks which provides the

Flasks
Ray-Bans
Redwing Boots

Alum -

Tuxedos for Sale and Rental
Fancy Cummerbund Sets

W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes

Since 1963 »
Student Charge Accounts Available
463-5383

iﬂmniia

entertainment of the piece,” Gere said in a
press release.

“Sommersby” was directed by I on
Amiel, who called the film “a truly extraor-
dinary love story, one in which love is
possibly more important than life itself.”

Producer Amon Milchan said in a press
release that he had been passionate about
ﬁlming “Sommersby” for some time.“It is
a great and timeless saga that incorporates
all the great elements of love stories.

But Foster said, “Sommersby is about
much more than love. “It touches on truths
about family, honor and faith in humility.”

 

Affordable Elegance in Dining
Entrees Starting at $9.95
Reservations Recommended
(703) 366-2444

 

 
   
   

OUR FABU

Witch, was severely bu

FILMS

er in Casablanca who must sacri-
‘ ' collaborator during

1k FILMS, from page 7

from that first look.”

“The Wizard of 02,” released the same
year as “Gone with the Wind,” has become
a requisite childhood experience and is
seen over and over again.

Adapted from the book by Frank L.
Baum, “The Wizard of Oz” is the tale of the
adventures of Dorothy, a young girl who is
carried away by a tornado to the magical =~-
land of Oz, where she befriends the Tin 
Man, the Scarecrow and theCowardly Lion.

Together they fight the Wicked Witch
of the West before traveling to the Emerald
City to see the Wizard of 02, the only
person who can help Dorothy return to
Kansas.

     
 

ultimate romantic gesture
e woman he loves for the

  

  

gave the producers

 

, neither the writers,
knew how the movie

 
 
   

rtedly drank alcohol

stories and threw
d at crew members.
idgets got so drunk
0 a toilet and had to

  
    
   

3 (1 two versions of the
ergman leaves with
in which she stays
d ending was never

    
     
 
   
 
  

       
    
 
 
 
 

Although Judy Garland has been for- nca1ledAmerica’s
ever identified with the part of Dorothy, rloved movie. ree Oscars and
she was not the first choice for the role — Critics all of the elements that ost often quoted

the producer originally wanted Shirley
Temple, but she was unavailable. Sixteen-
year-old Garland won a special Oscar for
her perfonnance.

The production of the movie was not
without its mishaps, some humorous and
some tragic. Margaret Hamilton, who so
convincingly played the role of the Wicked

Here’s looking at
have Paris,” and
he Bogart never

this year’s FD Ball is the western “True
Grit,” starring John Wayne, Dennis Hop-
per, Robert Duvall and Kim Darby.

Alison.
The movie is the story of an American

    

'~. ._ .4‘

FOR FD

The movie was an immediate hit after
its 1969 release and is one of the highest
grossing westerns of all time.

Set in Indian territory in the Old West,
“True Grit” is the adventure ofa young girl,
Darby, seeking revenge for her father’s
murder. Darby hires Wayne, an overweight
U.S. marshal with an eye patch, to bring the
killer to justice.

Many view Wayne’s role as a satire of
his previous roles in westerns such as
“Stagecoach” and “The Searchers.”

Movie historians call “TrueGrit” a land-
mark film because it represents the transi—
tion from old-style Hollywood actors, such
as Wayne, to a younger generation of ac-
tors, including Duvall and Hopper, who
were moving up in the ranks of Hollywood
stardom.

The two generations of actors often
clashed over their disparate approaches to
the craft of acting.

Wayne won an Oscar for his perfor-
mance as Rooster Cogbum, an award many
say recognizes not only his work in “True
Grit,” but his entire career. In his accep-
tance speech at the awards ceremony,
Wayne told the audience, “If I’d ’a’ known
that, I ’d ’a’ put on a patch 35 years earlier.

§

 

  
 

  

F.D. istoo

 
   
    
  

 
   
    
   
 

     
    
 
 

  
 
      
   
 

specialtobe \\ ‘I, Q‘ .
taken lightly. p  /4 €V€I1t, SO
"-‘ I ; ' '. ;».,'% - (9:
Ask thatspecial  '  memorable
person with style. >5   
.3, _.'_:.4;-_' .219 .“ _

Send anEnglish , r ' If‘ '

Country Garden

inavase ,

whateverittakes

toshow

him/herthatyou

 
 

mean it

 
 
 

  

  
  

WA L K  R
HOUSE

Restaurant;

  

ﬂorist to The Homestead
463-9841

.4
>——<

Ten E. Nelson

Lexington

Fancy Dress is a memorable

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

_ Reservations now being accepted for
' Lunch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

The_.___



 

/////////////A

dine at a
restaurant!

I.III//////'/////////////////////////”’

 
 

n ¢.—..'_::d.

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

MAPLE HAL
DINING ROOM

Open 7Nights a week
Reservations Recommended
463-4666

 

\\

 

@112 ‘ﬂing-tumlﬁhi

wisﬁes e7/eryone

a safe and Happy

 

 

   

   

  
   
  
  
  

  

 
  

\\

 

 
 

Dﬁ/’l’VE9R..$‘/'4L£.E‘YG>’USI9VESS SEQCVICTS
203 N sum Street
463-9455

RESUMES
COVER LETTERS & ENVELOPES

PAPERS, APPLICATIONS, FORMS

  

UPS SHIPPING, FAX SERVICE

FAST SERVICE

 

 THE UNiVEFi€lTY LlBFlAFtY
lNA‘S£-lit\i<3TOa‘i a use l.lNlVtEFtStTY
LBCINGTON. VA 24450

 MAR 0 51993

IT I.lVESI

Hunters. Thompson boasts
about drugs and sex, and
a new biography has it all

Lax teams blast off

in season openers
Both squads turn on offensive burners 6

he ‘Eti1t- um iﬂlti

VO§UME 92, NO. 20

Board
appoints
Kefalas

    
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   

lications Board Tuesday ap-
pointed junior Francesca Kefalas
the executive editor of The Ring-

President and current Phi Execu-
tive.Editor Cathryn Lopiccolo
said she was pleased with the
board’s decision.

“We were very impressed
with Fran’s leadership capabili-

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 
  
 

ties,” Lopiccolo said. “The one-
half vote cast was not a reflection

By MOLLY AFTER
Phi Staff Writer

  
   
   
  
    
 
    
    
  
  
   
  

been done in the past.”

Kefalas, currently the Phi edi-
torial page editor, said she plans
few initial changes in the Phi’s
struﬁture when she takes over at
the beginning of spring term.

“Hopefully we will be able to
give the campus more in-depth
articles, as an addition to wlhatgis _
currently done,” Kef alas ”sJai“d.  "

Reeves said.

assistant business manager.

T'ree-cutters
do service,
not jail time

By MOLLY Amara

of a youthful, new band,” Reeves said. “They

schedule for this weekend’s ball.
“We’re making excellent progress,”

are a contemporary name, a name that we all
know.”

Reeves also said the FD committee cleared
up any potential copyright problems with

gym decorations months ago.

Despite concerns about band cancella-
tions, copyright questions and a lack of con-
tract workers, Reeves said FD preparations
have turned out well.

The FD committee had hoped that The
Temptations would play in the Pavilion for
tonight's concert, Reeves said, but they could

“We were concerned early on that the
screen sets [in the big gym] would be a
violation of copyright,” Reeves said. “We
got right on it.”

Reeves said members of the committee
spoke with lawyersand.iaw.s¢ho<2Lpr9£e§;,...sonstructim
sors,'as well as a man from the copyright

bilia, dropped out.

A banner greets fancy Dress ball-goers as they approach Doremus Gymnasium on Washington Street.

FD ready to take center stage

Reeves said the size, experience and en-
thusiasm of the steering committee made up

into 10 days.”

get the ball rolling and everyone ran with it.”

7

began before February break, Reeves said.
“[Starting early] has given us over three
weeks,” Reeves said. “We usually cram it

Steering Committee Treasurer Valerie
Shannon said the committee has not ex-
ceeded its budget, and Reeves said the com-
mittee will remain under budget throughout

'>7‘We’ll spend a lot this’ week,” Reeves

By FAITH TRUMAN

Tuesday resolved the confusion
over who can change men’ s Rush.
“SAC has the authority but

“SAC has formally started a
discussion on the Rush proce-
dures. It will be an evolutionary
process. The IFC will present its
thoughts to SAC, but the process
willnotend there,”Howison said.
“It needs to be a cooperative ad-
venture. It is unlikely everything

“One part of a Rush proposal
I’d like to see is a cohesive and
concise program leading from
Rush to pledgeship to active
membership,” Howison said.
“Most fraternities do not honor
the delayed pledgeship [that ex-
ists now]. A concise Rush pro-
gram is much more important

' than wheri‘Rifsh”h”appén’s'f” '

concern about the process.

MARCH 4, 1993

SAC claims
Rush power

“There needs to be some way
to control the distribution of

‘By RICHARD WEAVER Phi Staff Writer pledge class Sizes,” Rock Said.
Ph‘ Smff Wm“ “There should be some way to

The Student Affairs Commit- keep huge numbers of rushees

TheWashingtonandLeePub- tee and lnterfratemity Council from going to one house and

draining other houses.”
The most likely solution to
this problem is a cap on pledge

tum.Phi for the 1993-94 aca— needs to have IFC input,” Dean glass sizes.

demic year, The board appointed of Students David Howison told One suggestion is to take the

Kevin Roddeybusiness manager, the IFC at its Tuesday meeting. number of rushees, divide it by
The Pub Board voted four. .. .  . .. Howisonexplained to thelFC the number of fraternities rush-

and—a—half to one-half votes in W010 by Ma“°|'Y Mel/9'5. 9 Um PM the firstfew stages of the process ing, and add afixed number. The

favor of Kcfalas, Pub Board for a Rush proposal. cap on pledge classes might be

between 20-25 members foreach
house, Rock said.

Phi Delta Theta President Jim
Eddings said a cap should be
distinguished from a quota, which
assures all houses a certain num-
ber of pledges.

The IFC has not proposed a

upo Fran’s qualiﬁcations but On Friday atthe ball, Bo Thorpe will play for the lack of contract workers. in the IFC’s proposal will be ac- system for bids with capped
rath r concern expressed for the in the big gym, while the New Rhythm and “We have such an outstanding committee cepted by SAC.” pledge classes.

election of a single executive Fancy DFCSS Steering Committee Chair- Blues Quartet, N.R.B.Q., will entertain in that we’ll be fine,” Reeves said. Howison voiced his own Fraternities would haveto de-
editor, rather than two as has mall Virginia RCCVCS says everything is On the small gym. This was the first year FD construction hopes for changes in Rush. velopawayto acceptbids gradu-

ally to fill the pledge class with-
out exceeding the limit.

A cap system is not included
in the lFC’s current Rush pro-
posal, but it may be added.

Those working on the Rush
proposals would like a decision
to be made soon, but they say
they want the changes to be thor-
ough and appropriate.

Kefalas said she also plans to not make the trip without another gig in the board of “Gone With the Wind.” She said all said. “But it’s good that we're under by The current IFC proposal “We hope to resolve anyRush
revﬂwthe Phi’scurrentsubscrip— area. Instead, the Fabulous Thunderbirds, of the people they consulted said there would thousands of dollars,” deals only with the time before changes by the end of the term,”
tion p0IiCy. With the Dave Matthews Band opening, Will be no problem with the setg_ Reeves said her experience as FD chair— and during Rush, not the time HOWISOTI said. “But we don’t

Roddey’s election to theposi- replace them. Reeves said construction of the decora- man has been rewarding thanks to the hard between Rush and pledgeship. want to rush any decisions.”
tion of Phi business manager was Reeves said she is pleased with the way tions was complicated when many contract work of committee members IFC President Sam Rock said The IFC will devote much of
unanimous. His term will begin band bookings turned out. workers, people who sign up to work on FD “They are so conscientious,” Reeves said_ members of SAC and the Board next Tuesday’s meeting to dis-
in the fall.Roddeyis currentlyan “[The Fabulous Thunderbirds] are more in exchange for a ball ticket and memora— “Everyone has worked so hard. I just had to of Trustees have voiced another cussing Rush changes and hopes

to have its first vote next week.

Prof describes stay,
people in new Russia

By MOLLY AFTER
Phi Staff Writer

 

 

_o

Phi Staff Writer

Six Phi Delta Theta pledges charged with de-
struction of property after cutting down a bamboo
tree in a VMI professor’s yard have a chance to get
the charges against them dropped.

The six freshmen charged are Ronald Claiborne
Rictards, John Walter Ransom James, Thomas
Lane Bradbury J r., Lester Stuart Borden, Christo-
pher Ryan Connolly and Jonathan Glenn Cof f man.

i The freshmen, who cut down a tree in Professor
John Gordon’s yard, will not have to serve the
maximum penalty of a year in jail or a $2,500 fine.
Instead, they will have to pay $150 for the tree and
each serve 24 hours of community service in

Rockbridge County.

The General District Court has agreed to hold
the destruction of property charge for six months.
At that time, if the students have paid $150 and the
court costs and have completed their community
service, the charges will be dropped.

pavid Natkin, the defendants’ lawyer, recom-

mended the penalty Tuesday.

Natkin presented Lexington General District
Court Judge Joseph E. Hess with a suggestion for
where the men could work off their hours.

“I spoke with Woody Bowyer, who is with the
Community Services Board,” Natkin said. “[He
sa' ] that there is a place between here and Buena
Vista called the boat locks that needs to be cleaned

99

up

poged was appropriate.

Robert N. Joyce Jr., the assistant
commonwealth’s attorney, said he spoke with the
Gordons, who wanted the students to face criminal
charges in order to teach them a lesson. Joyce said
the Gordons thought the arrangement Natkin pro-

Photo by Richard Peltz, The Fl/'ng—tum 
Cold war

Sophomore Lindsay "Coleman delights in a hit during a snowball fightthat erupted
on the Colonnade Friday. She temporarily joined forces with freshman Matthew
Mogk, left, and sophomore Taylor Burke. A Thursday storm dumped four to six
inches of white stuff in Rockbridge County.

During a semester as a Fulbright lec-
turer in Moscow, Professor of Journalism
Hampden H. Smith said he could never
be sure if there would be eggs in the egg
store.

“The uneven availability of products
makes life difficult and hard,” Smith said
Thursday in a speech describing his four-
month Russian experience.

Smith said Russian stores carry only
one type of product, and the day-to-day
stock is unpredictable. He said he often
carried a plastic bag with him in case he
found things to buy on the street.

When his son needed sneakers, Smith
said he went to a shoe store with an
Adidas sign in the window. But the store
had only two pairs of shoes, and neither
were Adidas. When Smith finally found a
suitable pair, he said he made the mistake
of not grabbing them immediately.

“I came back in 24 hours to buy the
shoes and the kiosk [where he found
them] was gone,” Smith said.

Smith said the Russians he met were
generous to the point of embarrassing
him. He said they would prepare a feast
for his family even if it meant using their
food supply for the week.

Smith said his students at Moscow
State University were interested in and
awed by his American life. A picture of

Photo by Meg in er, Th Fl/’ng—tum Ph

his house in America especially made an
impression. ‘

“Nobody made a comment,” he said.
“They just stared at it.”

In Moscow, Smith and his family lived
in a two—room Russian apartment that had
previously housed two families.

Despite the crowded buses, doubling
gas prices and lines of people standing in
ankle-deep snow, Smith said the Russian
people do not miss the Communist sys-
tern.

“They say, ‘We have tasted freedom.’
Don’t think for a minute that they will go
back to what we call ‘the old ways,’ ” he
said.

W&L students get their shot at movie stardom

    

 

Joyce and Natkin said the pledges had already
apologized to the Gordons.

The Gordons reported that their bamboo tree
had been chopped down in mid-January. Sally

Gordon said she and her husband had had problems .

with students on their property before.
.9Joyce wanted the case to serve as an example to
other students.

“Word ought to filter down,” Joyce said. “Mr.
Gordon ’ s property and other private property should
not be the place to get bamboo or anything else.”

In parting, Hess told the men they were part of
a community larger than Washington and Lee.

A ’ “Some things can happen in these situations
that cannot be undone,” Hess said. “[Remember]

that you are part of the whole community, not just

that on top_of the hill.”

(

 

From Staff Reports

Producers for “The Foreign
Student” are looking for a few
good men and women.

The crew will hold a casting
call on March 10, Washington
and Lee Communications Di-
rector Brian Shaw said Tuesday.

The moviemakers are look-
ingfor“all types”ages 16and up
to appear as extras in the movie,
Shaw said. But they are espe-
cially looking for co1lege—age
men and women.

The casting call will run 11

l

a.m. to 5 p.m. and 6-8 p.m. at the
Arlington Women ’s Center, Shaw
said. Applicants must bring clear,
current photos of themselves.The
photos will not be returned.

Shaw said there will be signs
in the Women’s Center on March
10 telling applicants where to go.

On March I 1, Eva Sereny, the
movie’s director, and Mark
Lombardo, executive producer,
will be on campus.

Sereny and Lombardo will
meet with campus groups and
speak to journalism Professor
John Jenning’s ﬁlm class in room
203 of Reid Hall at 1 p.m., Shaw

said.The speech to the film class
is open to the public.

“The Foreign Student” is
based on a novel of the same
name by Phillippe Labro about
his experiences as an exchange
student at Washington and Lee
in the 19505.

German actor , Marco
Hofschneider, who starred in
“Europa, Europa,” will star in
the film, which will also include
American actress Robin Givens,
Lombardo said in December.

/ Lombardo, who works for
Cathargo Films in Paris, said the
film will be in English.

    

1953 Calyx Phot
1950s W&L football will play a key role in “The Foreign Student.”

I

PAGE 2

    

Glitz ifting-tum lﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

ABC’s a’ watchin’

Fancy Dress is just around the comer, that meny time of year
when W&L students fulﬁll their reputation for partying hard.
usually getting well nigh toasted in the process.

But students aren’t the only folks in town with FD marked on
their calendars. This is a big-business weekend for the long arm of
the law.

The Fancy Dress Committee is issuing fair warning to all
students: Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Board officers will
be out in force for FD. They will be wearing plain clothes, and
they’ll probably even be in line behind you at the FD entrance.

Remember, under Virginia law, it’s not good enough to be 21 to
drink. No one can drink outside, in public.

And ABC and police will be hitting the streets hard. You already

I know that drinking and driving is just stupid, but if that’s not a good

enough reason not to do it, know that the police will be waiting to
play a fun game of one-legged man on the side of the road with you.

And while we ‘re harping on some of the dangers of FD, let’s not
be ignorant of assault.

Don’t think that just because it’s a holiday here at Washington
and Lee, the local criminal element has taken the night off. Steer
clear of dark streets and don’t walk alone. Even a macho guy looks
like an asshole when his head is split open.

And then there’s that more personal kind of assault. For your-
self, remember that a gentleman is a gentleman, a lady is a lady, no
matter how many drinks, and regarding your date, make sure your
expectations of one another are clear.

For everyone’s safety, take a glance at these locations of security
call boxes on campus: the Pavilion, the freshman parking lot, the
end of the stadium, the military science building, duPont Hall, the
Graham-Lees lounge; and new boxes under blue lights: in the
Corral across from Phi Kappa Sigma, in the Piney Woods law
parking lot and on the low brick wall behind the Davidson Park
fraternity houses under construction.

Celebrate the silver screen safely.

Take a stand

Ice-T chastises young people for a lack of moral courage. It’s
pathetic, he says, that he can get paid for standing up and saying
what he believes.

Maybe we should invite Ice-T to speak at Washington and Lee.

A perpetual problem in putting together this newspaper is
getting people to go on the record. Most students we interview

honestlyexpress,agfearthat their opinions» will ‘beread by other

students. .  .

A clear majority of the students interviewed for this week’s
feature on W&L men would not go on the record. We don’t
routinely grant anonymity, except in extraordinary circumstances.
Consequently, there is not much diversity in the opinions ex-
pressed in the story.

But that’s just one example. It happens all the time, in every
section.

This sort of failure in moral courage is exemplified by what
students said in the W&L men feature. Most view W&L as a vortex
that sucks the individuality out of all but the most stalwart. And
those individuals who stand their ground are W&L’s square pegs.

The situation is not helped by a scattering of professors who
discourage independent thinking by giving credit for regurgitation.

It’s all too easy to come to W&L and sail through four years of
being part of the group. After all, it’s difﬁcult to have your own
opinions. Your “friends” might exclude you from the club. Other
students might argue with you. Worst of all, you might have to take
responsibility for your speech and conduct.

It’s embarrassing, though, if there are people out in the “real
world” with W&L degrees on their walls who are afraid to
speak their minds.

 

Elie ﬂing-tum lﬂlri

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gregory Patterson

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appearin that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaperbbservcs current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

1 (ELL yA,

CHHBHONI

 11'‘ 0-216
" /  gjqgpcz AND HAtzv>EK T0
 - FWD Ag o:latAsE1> ‘Tony.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1993

Ronseyiéwo vs- LA PD

UK)’ “N?-

»<

   
     
  

 
  

.-.-.

   

Revenue gives government the itch

WASHINGTON -— If only Presi-
dent Taft had not gone golfing at the
Chevy Chase Club in 1909. Perhaps
we would not be saddled with the fed-
eral income

the 1880s there was intense pressure to
reduce tariffs, the largest source of
federal revenue. And because America
was by then an industrial power, it was

importing pri-

 

tax, or the marily raw ma-
govetrilngent terials bwhich
grow at it were su _]CCl to
has irrigated GEORGE WILL lower tariffs
and that the _ than finished
Clinton ad- Washington Post goods, so rev-
ministration ' er 1- enues werefall-
considers not Wnt S G Oup ing. Further-
rapid enough. more, federal

Perhaps, land sales, an-

but probably

not. By Taft's time there were well-
advanced changes — in the
govemment’s revenue base and the
govemment’s appetite for action —
that probably would have produced the
income tax that helps fuel recurring
spurts of government growth of the
sort we are about to experience.

At the Chevy Chase Club, and in
clandestine evening carriage rides (ac-
cording to Nancy Sheperdson, writing
in the March 1989 American Heri-
tage), Taft struck a deal with senators
who wanted to attach to a tariff bill a
constitutional amendment empower-
ing the federal government to levy in-
come taxes.

If the senators would not attach it,

T*'.1.f‘.'.' S579" f”l"“‘?7'=="‘.T"-.’l.i.*ii§S"‘)’§5i"“'.€>*iiftliililldi "
suppdn_sucli.ari amendment dfrts own. _

Taft‘ and many" ‘others doubted that it
would be ratified.

Wrong. Pressures for the tax had
been building since the 1890s, which
resembled the 1990s by demonstrating
that “deﬁcits equal deferred taxes.” At
least that is the opinion of Benjamin
Back and Edward Ray, economists at
Ohio State University.

In an essay in “Second Thoughts:
Myths and Morals of U.S. Economic
History,” they note that by the end of

other source of
revenue, were declining. But spending
was increasing, especially for the N av y,
which by 1905 received 20 percent of
the federal budget. And Congress,
acquiring a taste for large social pro-
grams to redistribute income, substan-
tially increased pensions for veterans,
a lobby then as potent as the elderly are
today.

In 1894 the government ran the first
deficit since the Civil War and enacted
a short-lived income tax (it was de-
clared unconstitutional in 1895). In
1913 the Constitution was amended
and Congress enacted another income
tax: 1 percent on income between
$3,000 and $20,000, with a 6 percent

5“’?.ha’8.° 0.1.1. hi$h9r..inc0mes- Only 1...

 of "Americans paid anything.

.Then,the'war:carne;' B_y 1919 the top“

rate was 77‘pereent, and taxable in-
come was lowered to $1,000.

The foundation of the modern state
— a mechanism for raising vast rev-
enues —— was in place. The mere exist-
ence of the mechanism altered
America’s political culture by quick-
ening the itch of the political class to
provide benefits to client groups who
were convinced that they would be net
winners from income transfers.

But the postulated relationship that

“deficits equal deferred taxes” is acon-
tingent, not a necessary, relationship.
It is contingent on a particular kind of
political culture, one debased by the
politics of envy (clothed in the lan-
guage of “faimess”) and dominated by
a political class offering an expanding
menu of popular benefits that ostensi-
bly will be paid for by unpopular mi-
norities (“the rich,” “corporations”).
The Clinton

administra-

would be expanded to cover persons
not properly described as displaced:
“If somebody feels that they wan to
improve their living standard, the gov-
emment should do everything that it
can do to help that person. If you quit
jobs and you want to get retrained for a
better job, you ought to get help in that

respect as well.”
So, amidst solemn Washington ﬂlk
about “reining in
entitlements,”

tion may be-
come both a
cause and "an
effect of such
a culture, on a
historic scale.

A rough

print, “A
Change for

And there is this from
Clinton’s economic blue-

Reich is casually
postulating a new
one: If, desiring a

Vision of

, son quits an Qld
Amerrca”:

one, that person is

 

better job, a per-'

but service-
able measure
of an
administration's
leaning to the
left is its reluc-
tancetorecog-
nize limits on
its compe-
tence or its
claim on the
economy’sre-
sources. The
Clinton ad-

ministratio_nv__v
Mmay ‘becorne
thernost left- 

leaning in
American his-
tory (not
counting the
c o m m a n d

“The administration pro-
poses to invest $30 mil-
lion in 1994 and $50 mil-
lion in each of the next
four years, towards the
international goal of re-
ducing world-wide defor-
estation.” This expansion
of an old program (in the
name of a Bush adminis-
tration undertaking at the

"'l‘99_2*'Rio “Earth Sum-
mit”) is listed in a chapter

called “What We Must Do
Now.”

entitled to “every-

thing that (Wash-,

ington) can do” to
help.

Andthereis this
from Clintor9‘s

economic blue-'

print, “A Vision of
Change for
America”: “The
administration
proposes to invest
$30 million in
1994 and $50 mil-
lion in each of the
next four years,

towards the inter- »

national goal of
reducing world-
wide defores§i-
tion.”

This expansion
of an old program

economies of “war socialism” under
Wilson and FDR).

Hardly a day passes without some-
thing like the recent statement by La-
bor Secretary Robert Reich concem-
ing why access to federal programs
currently serving displaced workers

(in the name of a Bush administration
undertaking at the 1992 Rio “Earth
Summit”) is listed in a chapter called
“What We Must Do Now.” .
Must. Right now. Trees, overseas.
Call it “investing in America.”
© 1 993 The Washington Post Writers Group

Split-screen presidency never merges

WASHINGTON -— Those Aspen skiers rescued
the other day didn’t care who saved them. They
didn’t care whether the helicopter pilot was a Demo-
crat or a Republican, a man of instinctive candor or
caprice, whether his co-pilot also happened to be his

The list runs on:

wife.

Neither, watching the re— ,
sponse Bill Clinton drew last ¢_
week,doesthe Americanpub- CHR1sT()'pHER
lic. Watching people wel-
come their young, can-do MATTHEWS

president to the West Coast,
as this reporter did, and you
see an America exhilarated, a
bit like those near-frozen ski-
ers in Colorado were Tues-
day, by the prospect of immi-
nent rescue.

Among journalists who cover Clinton, the pic-
ture is starkly different. Where the crowds in Santa
Monaco and Mountain View and Seattle looked to

  
  

Tribune Media
Services

  

Clinton cuts Social Security benefits

using the tax system.

Clinton runs on a promise, printed in

country, has pointed out the lie. The truth is, only
those making under $20,000 are compensated for the
gasoline and other fuel tax hikes by the new, offset-
ting hikes in welfare payments Clinton is proposing.

Clinton ran against
Paul Tsongas in Florida
and other primary states
last year for daring to sug-
gest cuts in Social Secu-
rity beneﬁts. For this, he
wins the votes of millions

of middle-

class retir- ,
ees, . I have a deepening
d :SrI:r<:S*' hunch that these two

Council.

and the line-item veto.

hero of his party's moderates and conservatives,
chairman of its right-leaning Democratic Leadership
He earned his spurs attacking welfare
cheats, deadbeat dads, supporting capital punishment

Having won election, Clinton shifts directigi,
pushing a program of substantial new govemment-'
spending, championing a social welfare agenda not
seen since the days of Lyndon B. Johnson.

How do we square these two realities? The
exuberant appeal Clinton and his economic plan are
generating in the country with the vexing discovery

by those who cover him f

views -— I should say
these two ways of look-
ing at Bill Clinton —will

a predictable chasm be-
tween his words on one
day and the next, between
what he says and what can
be ascertained as fact?

I have a deepening
hunchthatthesetwovie s

the president with hope last week, the professionals
see a different figure emerging into the light: a
politician who regularly says things that clash not
just with things he’s said before but with observable
reality.

his campaign brochure, to “stop the
revolving door” of lobbyists who spend
a few years in government service build-
ing up contacts, then spend their later
years exploiting them on the outside as
consultants and Washington lawyer-lob-

never merge. We will
view the Clinton presi-
dency for the next four
or eight years in split-

— I should say these two
ways of looking at Bill
Clinton — will never
merge. We will view the
Clinton presidency for the
next four or eight years in

Consider Clinton’s record on the gasoline tax.
During last year’s campaign, he slammed Demo-
cratic rival Paul Tsongas for even proposing such an
idea. Today, raising new federal revenues from
energy is a linchpin of Clinton’s program.

Consider who gets hit by the tax. Clinton says
that only those who make $30,000 and above are hit.
David Broder, the most respected reporter in the

byists.

twirl.

Safely elected, Clinton packs his
Cabinet, not to mention his transition
team, with the same Washington lawyer-lobbyists he
had so convincingly campaigned against. Instead of
stopping the “revolving door,” he’s given it another

Clinton runs as a “different kind of Democrat,” a

LETTERS

SCFCEII.

split-screen. On the left
side of our TV tube, “R:

will see our hero the way

those desperate Colorado skiers saw the rescuing
helicopter, as a vehicle of hope. On the right side of
the screen, we will see Clinton with all his shortcom-  v

ings, including those of character.

© 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Speak! It’s a time-honored tradition -

To the Editor:

SPEAK! Hopefully his word will
be a familiar sight to you after being on
the Hill today. Kathekon members
posted these ﬂyers in order to remind
students of one of the oldest traditions
on the W&L campus—the Speaking
Tradition.

As the student—alumni group, it has
been brought to our attention by retum-
ing alumni that they fear the Speaking
Tradition is dying out in the Washing-
ton and Lee community.

While one alumnus was recently
touring the campus he asked, “What-

1

ever happened to the Speaking Tradi-
tion?”

This time-honored courtesy is one
of the several aspects that makes Wash-
ington and Lee unique from other col-
lege campuses. It creates a pleasant
and familiar environment which is
shared by the students, faculty and citi-
zens of Lexington. For many of us, it
is this particular atmosphere that ini-
tially attracted us to W&L and will
make it difficult for us to leave upon
graduation.

It is believed that the Speaking Tra-
dition, like the Honor System, grew

from the example set by General Lee.
Lee made it a point to know every
student by name, along with his course
load and grades. Only in times when
authority and the status quo were se-
verely questioned, did the Speaking
Tradition risk extinction. During the
Vietnam War, for example, many of
the long standing traditions found their
way out of the lives of the W&L stu-
dents.

Coats and ties, freshman beanies,
and even Fancy Dress were set aside,
as was the orientation of freshmen to
the Speaking Tradition. Fortunately

l

the Speaking Tradition has survived.
through the years thanks to those stu- ~
dents and faculty who chose to pcr- -. I
petuate this custom which General Lee E

felt was so important.

The future of the Speaking Trad?- ",
tion lies in our hands. At a time when -
Washington and Lee is undergoing so 3
many changes, we must actively em-T

brace those customs which have distin-

guished this campus from any other. _
Keep W&L a traditional place 1 ,

SPEAK!

Kathekon

 

  
  
    
    
   
   

fros’ SPACE
' By Tom Hespos

Attention faithful Spos’ Space
Readers: Spos has the week off. He
is currently off in the wilderness some-
where hunting wild gophers with some-
, one named Ted Nugent. We were
goiﬁ to run an ad for Lu1u’s Lingerie
‘II’! this space, but he faxed us this
Czisrnopolitan-like self test at the last
.ninute. Oh, well.
—- Spos
The Official Fancy Dress Ball
Awareness Self-Test
iie following quiz is designed to
call attention to several key concepts
that are essential to understand if one
is to have a good time on Fancy Dress
weekend. If you fail this quiz, Spos
would recommend that you stay home
A ' -id watch old “Hill Street Blues” re-
rungthis weekend. Please answer as
honestly as possible.
Part 1: Getting A Date
1) When a road school girl shows
up at a fraternity house in early
Marcli after a long absence from the
party scene -—
'Q it is a coincidence.
“ i3) she has no intention of scroung-
in g around for an FD date.
e) she wants to hang out with the

 Fling-tum Phi, March 4, 1993

guys and discuss current political is-
sues like the possibility of world gov-
emment.

d) she is an “FD vulture” and will do
anything to get a date, even if it means
going with “Weird Harold.”

2) Which of the following TV char-
acters should most closely resemble
your ideal date?

a) “Lumpy” from “Leave it to Bea-
ver”

b) Roseanne,Amold

c) Snufﬂe-Upagus

(1) Anyone from “Beverly Hills
90210”

Part II: Selecting Evening Attire

3) A formal dress should —

a) be a leftover from your senior
prom.

b) be a tasteful mix of plaids, stripes
and rhinestones.

e) have several thousand clamps,
zippers, locks and tiny hooks in order to
confuse your date when he tries to re-
move it.

d) be completely transparent.

4) A tuxedo should —

a) be worn with Reeboks.

b) nicely complement your polka-
dotted tie and cummerbund.

c)bemanufactured by“Health-Tex”
or “Garanimals.”

d) be stain-proof and have 76 differ-
ent places to hide a flask.

    
  
  
   
 

To the Editor:

Jgtelligent consumers of mainstream jour-
nalism have long been aware of the American
press’ irresponsible oversights of American
imperialisni across the globe, and its hopelessly
biased, ethnocentric coverage of major intema-
tional catastrophes. The press’ recent bungling

Media pulls wool over our eyes

another chapter to its long history of clandes-
tine support for repressive regimes worldwide
by supplying Barre with aims and military
training. The Pentagon’s IMED (International
Military Education) program trained Barre’s
officers at United States military facilities, in-
cluding Fort Leavenworth, Kan., before they

LETTERS

OPINION

‘Part III: The Ball

5) When Baner catches you in
your attempt to enter the ball with a
flask of Jim Beam, you should —

a) go “Oops.”

b) immediately claim illegal search
and seizure and threaten a lawsuit.

c) point in the general direction of
his truck and tell him that if he wants it
to be there in the morning, he should
“cooperate.”

d) motion toward the bathroom and
ask him to split it with you.

6) Which slate of performers is
closest to the performers that will be
playing at Fancy Dress this year?

a) The Spin Doctors and Toad the
Wet Sprocket

b) Van Halen and Guns ‘N’ Roses

c) A Tribe Called Quest and Ar-
rested Development

(1) The Abe Gustaffson Polka Trio
and an unnamed wedding band

7) When your date starts to throw
up in front of Dean Howison, you
should —

a) say, “Well, it serves him right for
drinking all of that grain punch.”

b) prepare for a lengthy SCC trial.

c) ask Howison for a handkerchief.

d) split.

8) If you see Michael Stipe of
R.E.M. in the crowd of guests, you
should -

‘FD quiz can predict weekend fun factor

a) run over and throw up on his pink
shoes.

b) ask him if he would like to polka
with you.

c) arrange for a group of fratemity
pledges to tie him to a truck bumper
and drive him to Lee-Hi.

d) immediately dismiss itas ahallu-
cination brought on by excessive
amounts of Cuervo Gold in your sys-
tem.

9) If you see President Wilson
chasing after Michael Stipe with a
tire iron, you should —

a) forget about it and read about it in
the Phi next Thursday.

b) lay off the LSD for a few weeks.

c) wonder if the incident will show
up in the “Barron’s Guide to Colleges
and Universities.”

d) help. _

Part IV: The Morning After

lll)The scientifically proven ideal
cure for a hangover is —

a) lots of water and a handful of
aspirin.

' b) a .357 Magnum.

c) Mexican food.

d) more beer.

Scoring:

Score 1 point for every “d” response.

10: Prepare for a fun-filled week-
end. 0-9: Stay home and listen to old
Harry Chapin records.

To the Editor:

in its coverage of the Somalian crisis vividly
illu rates the kind of incompetence that has
rlistiiiguished it throughout modern history.
,, 'r:-levision reporting in Somalia is replete with
“Wsturbing images of hordes of Somali natives
:1 ;ng benevolently aided and protected by
’l€I’lC21I1 troops. What you will not hear
ough the mainstream media is the sordid
i try of American meddling in Somalia that
1 up to that nation’s current civil strife, an
:. gount eerie in its resemblance to previous
Anerican machinations in Iraq, Southeast Asia
arid South America. -’  ~ A “-
Because of Soma1ia’s strategic geographi-
cal position, situated on the Indian Ocean near
oil-rich Persian Gulf, U.S. forces took an
efest in the African nation throughout the
705 after its brutal military dictator, General

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

is continued:-' to launch periodic attacks into So-

were returned to Somalia to terrorize their own
people.

Millions of American government dollars
were spent arming Barre to the hilt before, in
1988, Barre annihilated opposition to his dicta-
torship through a devastating air raid on the
northern city of Hargeisa, a center of opposition
to the Barre dictatorship. The attack was ex-
ecuted with American-supplied military hard-
ware by soldiers trained in the United States
with U. S. funds. After Congress halted aid to
Barre he ﬂed to Kenya in 1991 from which he

will arise. '

difficulties.

malia, destroying its irrigation systems, hasten-.
ing and exacerbating its famine. »

I know full well that a sizable portion of the
W&L population could not care less about the
deplorable activities of its nation’s govem-

  
  
  

Sotnalian warlord.

Dear Mr. Kreppel and Spectator
staff:

While reading a recent article in the
Spectator (“Acting-Up in the Dean’s
fiffice) I was surprised to find that the
writer(s) actually found out what ACI‘
1; P35 an acronym for. It’s unfortunate
ﬁt) attempt was made to comprehend
what the name of the organization
i';’i’.32lllS.

We exist to bring an end to the
‘TBS crisis. Because of persistent
_ ic perception of AIDS as a “gay
t;}.s8ase” this means fighting

 
  

Barre, seized power in 1969 and began
’(.‘.lVlIlg support from the Soviet Union. After
iwarre invaded Ethiopia, a Soviet client-state, in
1977, the Soviets terminated their aid to the

mation should be welcome.

Fortunately for General Barre, the United
States was willing to lend a hand to a brutal
dictator down on his luck as America added

{Alumnus scolds the Spectator

Something to think about,
Justin Peterson, ’94

homophobia.

However, we also fight any errone-
ous public fears that pose barriers to
effective AIDS education and preven-
tion. This includes unfounded and
dangerous moralizing against needle
exchange programs (perhaps the most
effective way of stopping transmission
of HIV among intravenous drug users)
and public indifference to the urban
homeless and minorities (who consti-
tute the fastest-growing rates of HIV
infection).

As a direct-action group, we are

ment, today or across history, but for those
sensitive to the state of our democracy and the
responsibility of the press we rely upon to
inform our political consciousness, this infor-

Kathy Savory, ’94

Film Society gets
back on track

I wish to thank everyone in the Washington and Lee commu-
nity who has supported the Film Society during our 1992-93
season. We have all been very excited about our move to the
Troubadour Theater. As with any transition, however, problems

Upon our move from Lewis Hall to the Troubadour, part of
our agreement with the university included the stipulation that
we were to be relieved of the responsibility of actuallyprojecting
the movies. The university is now responsible for the projection-
ists who run all the films at the Troubadour. Our recent problems
have been partly due to the purchase of “reconditioned” (used)
projectors. Additionally, human error has contributed to the

The Film Society would like to reassure the university
community that every measure is being taken to rectify these
problems; and to that end, we would like to thank Carol Calkins,
Flash Floyd, Dean,Atkins and Dean I-_Iow_ison for of their
efforts. The Film Society would like to apologize for the
inconvenience of the technical problems. These problems have
been very frustrating for the Film Society because they are all
beyond our realm of control.

In the last week, the university has taken actions which
should put an end to the technical problems at the Troubadour.
I would like to thank the university community for its patience,
and to extend an open invitation to join us for upcoming Film
Society presentations.

Vice President, Film Society

committed to action to produce results.
ACT UP’s accomplishments, among
many, have been to force the Food and
Drug Administration to “fast track”
promising new AIDS drugs and the
ACT UP Presidential Project, which
last year focused attention on the presi-
dential candidates’ plans to end the
AIDS crisis.

ACT UP has not supplied Washing-
ton and Lee with any information for
distribution, as the Spectator concocted.

I do encourage W&L students to
obtain information on HIV and AIDS

 

  

9 \ \\s

Joe Frampton, ’95, Paducah, Ky.—
“Hust hope everyone has as much fun
“as Tm going to have.”

  
     

 

. interviews and Photos
fly Darran Winslow
1 .ayout,by Jennifer McCann

What is your biggest expectation of FD?

 

Madeline White, ’96, Kensington,
Md. —— “Drunkenness, gluttony, and
debauchery.”

 

TALKBACK

from any available sources, including
ACT UP. Deliberate ignorance, such
as that displayed in the Spectator ar-
ticle, only leads to disaster.

It docsn '1 seem to be the Spectator's
style, but perhaps in the future thﬁr
writers will make somcphone calls and
do some basic research before going to
press. I don't believe that’s too much
to ask in the interest of accuracy, integ-
rity and honesty.

Sean Bugg, ’89

Goose Garrigus, ’95, Atlanta, Ga. and Monica Robinson, ’94, Houston,
Texas —- “To have people sober enough to admire all of our hard work.”

 

’93 Project

The class of ’93 Pledge Project
Committee is now forming. Please
participate! For more information
call Annie at 464-6266.

New Club

The Red Wheelbarrow Society.
What's this?! We’re a group of
weirdos that meet each Saturday
night to read poetry by candlelight.
Want to join us? We meet in the
conference room of Payne Hall (sec-
ond ﬂoor) at 9 p.m. Come by and
read or justlisten. Questions? Call
Kristin Roach at 464-3916. Won-
dering about our name? Stop by
and find out.

Talkback

The Ring-tum Phi is now pro-
ducing Talkback with an image
scanner. It doesn’t look as crisp,
but it saves a lot of time. Anyone
who would like to do it the old way
is welcome to volunteer. We’ll
need an hour of your time Tuesday
night and an hour Thursday mom-
in g, more time to train, then maybe
a little less time when you get good
at it.

Republicans

The College Republicans will
hold a meeting Tuesday at 7:30
p.m. in the Mock Convention of-
fice. The debate topic will be capi-
tal punishment.

Live Drive

If you’re drinking, don't drive.
Please call Live Drive at 463-8947
for a safe, sober ride. Live Drive
operates Friday and Saturdaynights
from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.

Preston Society, V

The: Fission iSoéfi.‘c‘tY."i'-s» a ‘cent:  2.
= munity service group dedicated to‘

promoting better relations between
W&L and VMI. The Society is seek-
ing new members to help us in
promoting our cause. We assemble
at 7 p.m. on Wednesday nights in
front of Lee Chapel and then walk
over to VMI to hold our meetings.
If you are interested,please come to
our next meeting or call public rela-
tions director Tom Hespos at 464-
5511. All interested members of
the W&L/VMIcommunity are wel-
come.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar.

AIDS

The National Lawyer's Guild is
sponsoring an AIDS symposium on
April 1. Theevent will beheld from
2 p.m to 6 p.m. in the moot court-
room of Lewis Hall and will feature
a panel discussion followed by a
question and answer period. All
members of the W&L comunity in-
terested in the legal and social raini-
fications of the disease are encour-
aged to attend.

Women’s Forum

“Women’s Involvement in Stu-
dent Leadership” will be the topic
of the Women’s Forum meeting on
Sunday at 6 p.m. in the Women’s
Center. Members of the EC and
SCC will be present. Everyone is
welcome.

Lost

Small brown leather key pouch
made by Mark Cross. Iffound please
call Stefanie at 463-6586. There is
a reward.

Kathekon

Applications for Kathekon,
W&L’s student alumni group, will
be accepted through Sunday and
are availableoutside Carol Calkins’
office. Kathekon assists with pro-
grams that improve student alumni
relations, particualarly during
Homecoming and reunion week-
ends.

Elections

Petitions for ExecutiveCommit-
tee class representatives and class
officers are due March 15. Elec-.
tions will be March 22.

‘ Theugym will beiopen during the
day on Friday so people may see the
completed decorations before the
ball begins.

Class Schedule

There will be an adjusted class
schedule for Phi Beta Kappa in-
duction on Marchl0. See the
Registrar’s Office for the sched-
ule.

Student Body Notice

A freshman male was found in violation of university policies for using
illegal substances in the dormitory. The student was removed from
freshman housing for the remainder of the year by the Dean of Students and
the SCC imposed the following sanctions: 1) conduct probation for the
remainder of the year, 2) nine hours of community service, and 3) one hour

with Dr. Worth.
Two male third-year law students

policy for fighting and ungentlemanly conduct. The SCC imposed the
following sanction: conduct probation for the remainder of the term.

were found in violation of university

 

Craig Sears, ’96, Atlanta, Ga. — “I
hope I still hook up with my date after
I do the worm across the gym ﬂoor
Friday night.”

Bob Turner, ’96, Dallas, Texas —
“Dah... I can’t remember.”

 

unter S. Thompson, au-

thor, joumalist and inspi-

ration for the character

“Uncle Duke” in the comic

strip “Doonesbury,” is still
alive. Many wonder whether to be im-
pressed or frightened.

E. Jean Carroll wrote Thompson’s
first biography, “The Strange and Sav-
age Life of Hunter S. Thompson.”

“I have heard the biographers of
Harry S. Truman, Catherine the Great,
etc., etc., say they would give anything
if their subjects were alive so they
could ask them some questions. I, on
the other hand, would give anything if
my subject were dead,” wrote Laetitia
Snap, the fictional persona for Carroll.

“I decided to use Tishy [Snap] be-
cause she’s young and she would be
shocked by Hunter,” Carroll said. “I ’m
a jaded old woman, and I’ve known
Hunter way too long to be shocked at
anything he does.”

Snap, a virginal omithologist who
visits Thompson’s Colorado home to
study his peacocks, reveals all of
Thompson’s vices: his drug habits, his
alcoholism, his sexual bravado, his
degenerate person-
ality. lnterspersed
with the story are
quotations from a
vast array of the
friends,‘ relatives,

   
 
 
 
  

bar,” Starkie said.
“He wouldn’tleave
until we were over
an hour late.

“When he got
here, he had to have
a bottle of Scotch,
or something, and
he spoke until he
finished it. He was
incoherent. I was
sitting in themiddle
of the front row and
I got up and left
half-waythrough.”

Starkie is not the
only one with an
uneasy view of
Thompson.

“He was totally
wack-a—doo,”fight
promotor Bob
Arum, a friend of
Thompson’s, told
Carroll. “I never
saw a guy consume frigging drugs like
Hunter.”

Thompson is the author of “Fear
and Loathing in Las Vegas,” “He1l’s

. Angels,” “The
Great Shark
Hunt” and several
other best sellers.
He has written for
Rolling Stone, the

Photo by Paul Harris Outline

aquaintances and in SanFransisco Ex-
colleagues of 3 aminer and many
Thompson. 3 other publica-

Oneofthemost 0 tion_s. ‘Born in
amazing incidents 9’, Louisville, Ken-
which Carroll 8 tucky, he was

writes about actu-
ally happened to
her.

“In the first in-
terview session

   
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

trouble from his
early childhood.
“Hunter was
difficult from the
moment of his

with Hunter, he birth,” his
slashed off my mother, Vir-
clotheswithafoot- g i n i a
long knife and Thompson
threw me in the told Carroll.
hot tub,” Thompson’s fa-
Carroll said. ther died when he
Thomp— was an adolescent,
s o n andhismotherbecame
s h o c k e d alcoholic.
Washingtonand Thompson did not

Lee two years ago
when Contact spon-
sored his visit to campus.
Senior Chris Starkie, then a
member of Contact, remembered
Thompson’s visit.

“We were already rurmin g late when

 
  
   
 

graduate from high school
because he was jailed near the

end of his senior year for armed
robbery.

After serving time, he entered

the Air Force, where he began to
report sports, a hobby which would

he picked him up from the Roanoke become a career.

airport, and he made us take him to a

 

Dick Schaap, television journalist

PRESENTS

% 1
'7; I

e

I E

5:.

31"‘

W1’ tI1 Special Guest

 

Thursday, March 4

doors open 8:30 __
show starts 9:00 ‘
at the

hi Pavilion - $10 at the door



 ‘F-°".. .-

FEATURES

and sportswriter, met Thompson dur-
ing the Pittsburgh-Minnesota Super
Bowl.

“Ioffered him acoughdrop,”Schaap
said to Carroll. “He said, ‘Oh, thank
you. Here let me give you some acid.’”

“He should have been dead 20 years
ago,” Thompson’s personal physician
told Carroll. Thompson's daily routine
consists largely of Chivas Regal, co-
caine, Durihills cigarettes, and some
acid, marijuana and Halcyon thrown in
for good measure.

“These drugs are gonna get me,”
said Thompson to Rolling Stone in
1980. “All of this shit’s gonna get me,
even those peacocks, and these eighty
speakers, and these fires and these
excesses...and this weed — boy, that’s
good weed. It’s gonna get me some
day, but we don’tknow when, do we?”

The Death Game is a kind of Rotis-
serie Obituary in which participants try
to guess who will die each year. Play-
ers from across the nation pick 60 people
and only score if their deaths are re-
ported in the New York Times obituary
page, and they perennially choose
Thompson.

“When he hits land it will be six feet
under,” Richard Goodwin, a longtime
friend of Thompson, told Carroll. “He’s
immortal. Obviously. Otherwise he
would have died long ago.”

Carroll, who spent two five-day in-
terview sessions as Thompson’s guest,
agrees.

“He’s like a god,” she said. “He’s
untouchable, he’s immortal. When
you’re around him and you’re going

112 miles an hour you know it’s cool

    

8

 

.;I' -1.: -‘ ' - ' i' : r ' r ' 6.‘ r I _.' all r' ' -"I" :1 I .' .;.: .1.‘ r : .:.‘ .
' -n  ' “E '. - 9.-'-5.?-.-i -:.'.  -

aid Lst liiti

Author reveals the strange and
unbelievable life of writer and
drug user Hunter S. Thompson

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

because you’re with Hunter S. He's
living at a higher speed, and when
you’re with him, you know you’re go-
ing to come out on the other side.”

Though Thompson’s lifetstyle gar-
ners mixedreactions, 'I'liompson’s writ-
ing is lauded by critics.

“HunterThomp-
son falls most natu-
rally into place not
with other writers,
but with the great
myths of Western
civilization:
Ulysses, Faust,
Dorian Gray,” said
professor Cybriane
Vonne to Carroll.

Carroll herself
reveres Thompson
as an intellectual.

“He is a genius,
he is a symbol, he is
a myth, a legend, a
god,” she said.
“Some people think
that he is losing his
touch, but he will
always rise.”

In a fax to Will
Hearst on Septem-
ber 1 1, 1987,
Thompson summed up his career goals.

“I need information, I want money
and expenses from the syndication deal,
I must kill pigs — and if I’m going to be
a goddamn syndicated columnist on a
level that we can put up against any-
body else in that nation, I want to be

The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1993

0

treated like a wizard and a main player
and the best political columnist in
America or anywhere else,” he said.
Carroll supports Thompson’s ideal. .
“He changed journalism forever; he
is seminal in the history of political
joumalism,” she said. “Nobody Gas
telling the truth about politics until old
Hunter came down the pike,” she said.
“Hunter decided to tell it like he saw
it and he made the rest of political
journalism look like a bunch of pus-
sies. He gave political journalism balls.”
Who is Hunter S. Thompson? Ibr-

haps Carroll's interview with author _

and editor Tim Cahill, a friend of

Thompson’s, describes him most-

broadly.
“Hunterrepresentsfreedom,”Cahill
said. “He has confidence, plus size,
plus a certain undeniable fearlessncss.
“We all have a kind of Peter Pan
ideal in our lives when we're about
twelve. We’re going to do this, we're
going to do that, and it gets beaten out

of us. It gets beaten out of us sometime ‘

between puberty and our first job.

“People often regret the things they
didn't do. Hunter is the alter ego who
got to do everything.”

All photos reprinted with permis— 1

.Yl0ﬂ.

6:05

or four jiggers of Chivas)

Hunter S. Thompson’s Daily Schedule '

3:00 p.m. rise

3:05 Chivas Regal with the morning papers, Dunhills
3:45 cocaine

3250 another glass of Chivas, Dunhills

4:05 first cup of coffee, Dunhills

4:14 cocaine

4:16 orange juice, Dunhills

4:30 cocaine

4:54 cocaine

5:05 cocaine

5:11 coffee, Dunhills

5:30 more ice in the Chivas

5:45 cocaine, etc., etc.

6:00 grass to take the edge off the day I

Woody Creek Tavern for lunch —Heineken, two margaritas, two cheeseburgers, two orders of fries, a plate
of tomatoes, coleslaw, a taco salad, a double order of fried onion rings, carrot cake, ice cream, bean fritter, Dunhills,
another Heineken,cocaine, and for the ride home, a snow cone (a glass of shredded ice over which is poured three

 

Photo by Lynn Goldsmith

 

9 r
rirlkmﬂﬁ

oﬁﬂoﬂ

UNIV. CARD: $4.50

Eggs Benedict
Country Link Sausage
Hash Browns
Make Your Own Waﬁles

Hotcakes w/Assorted Syrups

Assorted Pastries

Breakfast Yogurt w/Fresh Fruit Toppings
Fruit Juices - Coﬁee - Milk

CASH:

$5 .25

 

CONTRACT:

9:00 starts snorting cocaine seriously . 
10:00 drops acid
11:00 Chartreuse, cocaine, grass
11:30 cocaine, etc., etc.
12:00 midnight, Hunter is ready to write
12:05-6:00 a.m. Chartreuse, cocaine, grass, Chivas, coffee, Heineken,clove cigarettes, grapefruit, Dunhills,
orange juice, gin
6:00 the hot tub — champagne, Dove Bars, fettucini Alfredo '
8:00 Halcyon, sleep
9
LETITIA PATE EVANS DINING HALL
‘ PRESENTS: 9
"POST-FANCY DRESS BRUNCH BUFFET"
SATURDAY - MARCH 6, 1993
11:30AM—1:OOPM _
l
V O
. 1
.___l 1. _ ’
- J _-
Fresh Fruit Cup

’/10%?)
A04,
2204,
J’

N/C

 

--9

 

7; The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1993

By CAMERON HUDDLESTON
Phi Staff Writer

hen asked to describe
the typical Washington
- and Lee man, both
0 males and females
‘ mentioncharacteristics
such as conservative, southern, rich,
. preppy, partier, fraternity member, con-
1 formist, self—centered, or sexist.
“Duckheads, bucks, a button—down
shirt and a shot gun in their closet”
-‘mre the words Mr. W&L himself,
freshman Pat McKenna, used to de-
scribe the stereotypical W&L man.
Ironically, McKenna did not include
himself in this stereotype.
“Although there are plenty of ex-
amples to defy it, there's definitely a
‘ skreotypical W&L man,” junior Sarah
. Drain said.
' Drain attributes the stereotype some-
2 what to the fraternity system, which
I limits men to a small, homogeneous
r group.
- “There's a certain picture of a guy
3 that’ s idealized,” sophomore fraternity
 member Rob Robinson said.
; Robinson believes that a “do-what-
j you-want, worry-about-what-happens-
jlater” attitude prevails among W&L

l
l
’-

if’

    

men, including himself, and is reflected
in their appearance. These traditional
males, Robinson explained, are partly
the result of the fraternity system.

“The fraternity system makes guys
center on tradition,” he said.

The strong fraternity system domi-
nates the social life of most men and
many women, making it
an aspect of the school
impossible to ignore.

Each fraternity tends
to be associated with a
certain stereotype of its
own.

“I think it’s easier to
stereotype the guys than
girls. You classify most
guys by what fraternity
they’ve joined, not nec-
essarily by what they do
academically or athleti-
cally,” McKenna said.

“I think some [fraternities] do pro-
mote the stereotype, and some pride
themselves on that,” junior indepen-
dent Maurice Cole said.

Some students believe that this ste-
reotype is not inherent in many stu-
dents who enter W&L, but is a mindset
that is adopted.

“I think there's definitely a good
amount of molding,” Drain said.

Drain and oth-
ers believe that a
man learn to value
the opinions of the
group more after
being a fraternity
member. However,
some men come to
W&L wanting tobe
a part of the norm,
she said.

“ E v e r y b o d y
comes here indi-
vidualistic. Then
everybody gets into
the same mindset
through pledgeship.

 



Each fraternity tends to be associated with a

FilPhoto I know l’ve con-

formed,” McKenna

 

 

FEATURES

“There’s an attitude that’s conta-
gious,” sophomore fraternity member
Ted Demetri agreed.

While some men find themselves
conforming, there are those who look
down upon the stereotype.

“Whatever stereotype people try to
uphold, good or bad, they’re being
sheltered,” Cole said.

Thefratemitysystem
cannot take all of the
blame for creating ste-
reotypes. W&L women
have helped to perpetu-
ate the typical male im-
age.
‘‘I think that image is
due to both genders. We
came here and saw all
these great-looking
guys, and it’s really ap-
pealing. They see the
stereotypical male here, and it has a
draw,” Drain said.

“That's why we come here, for the
parallel in the student body. I would
not pay this much for a liberal school,”
sophomore Jackie VanVliet said.

Many students said they believe di-
versity will damage long-standing tra-
ditions at W&L, especially the tradi-
tional male. Some believe the present
freshman males have already made a
break with tradition.

 

EF|NlNG THE W&L MALE

Students describe the stereotypical Washington
and Lee man and the inﬂuence of fraternities

may breed lethargy. They get out of the
habit of going after things,” sopho-
more fraternity member Temple Cone
said.

Conesaid heand his fratemitybroth-
ers believe that a new breed of men is
being admitted that does not want to
“suffer” for something worthwhile, in

’ particular, fraternities.

“If they’re not willing to sacrifice
something to get something in return,
what are they going to do after they
graduate?” Cone said.

Although some are wary of change,
others feel W&L will benefit if the
stereotypical male is altered.

“I think the school is becoming pro-
gressively more diverse. Perhaps the
stereotypes will become less accurate,”
junior independent Ben E g gleston said.

“People who are unwilling to deal
with different viewpoints makes them
a weaker person,” Cole said.

Eggleston also shared the opinion
that a specific stereotype should not be
dictated to students.

“I don’t think entering students have
any obligation to have the same inter-
ests as those who come before them,”
Eggleston said.

“I think freshmen men are bucking
the norm, breaking the stereotype,”
Drain said.

“We definitely
have a more diverse
class. Obviously it has
hindered tradition if
22 guys have
dep.ledged,”
McKenna said.

Many upperclass-
men males say tradi-
tions are being com-
promised as the ad-
ministration seeks to
better the reputation
of the school.

“It’s sad. You see
guys who could bal-

 

 

ance everything [in
high school], but suc-

File Photo

Some students say thetraditional W&L man is

certain stereotype. said. cess in high school a result of the fraternity system.
 &  Furniture Deams Florida SPRING BREAK

O

115 S. Main St., Lexington

For your extra pieces of furniture

463-2742

7 nights Beachfront
$139 - 159
Reserve rooms NOW
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

I

/

UNFORTUNATELIL THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
' TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

E

0 I993 Barber: Inmmnr: and/innuity A.r.racialian/Cal/lg: Rdircrnzn! E¢uitit.r Fun}.

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes.They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs.
SRAs not only ease your current tax-
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income-—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security benefits may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on

your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the
Benefit nowﬁ-inn tax deferral. Call our SRA batline I 800-842-2 733, ext. 8016.

system.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality of life.

What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choices—-from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of
CREF '5 variable annuity—all backed

by the nation's number one retirement

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAS can help you enjoy many
happy returns.

ACROSS

Colonnade Crossword

1 Chief 1 2 3 4
5 Medicine

57l89

masses 14
10 Whitefish

14 Soft drink flavor 17

18

15 Whirling
16 —- and now 2° 2‘

22

17 Time 24
18 Extent

23

25

19 Marine plant 25 27 23
20 Hugged
22 Roof projection 33
24 Contraction

29

30 31 32

34

35

25 Eden dweller 35
26 Tasty bit
29 Happy 39 ‘O

37

33 Hate 42 43
34 Stone that

38

sparks 45
35 Mil. address

46

part 41 4a 49

36 Author Uris
37 Fetch 55

56

50 51

57

58

38 Insect stage 59
39 Drug letters

60

40 Augusta's state 52
41 Dug for ore

63

64

42 Went up and

down
44 Stogies 10 captivates
45 Building 11 Steering device

extensions 12 Press
46 Totality 13 Withstand
47 Longs for 21 State strongly
50 Commonplace 23 Oven for drying
55 Traveled hops

56 Talk pompously
58 Scarlett's home

25 Skirt shape
26 Where shoppers

59 Yank: abbr. shop
60 Join 27 Too heavy
61 Particular 28 —- island
62 Hackman or 29 Kind of date
Kelly 30 Animal life
63 Eagle’s weapon 31 Crust or berth
64 Loch —— start
32 Lots and lots
DOWN 34 Cooks
1 Be in pain 37 Scolds
2 Space 38 A jargon
3 Truncheon 40 Fellow
4 Actor Ford 41 Coconut juice
5 Part and ~— 43 Harsh
6 Dies — 44 Lurch
7 Furnish 47 Projecting rock
8 Part of a journey 48 "When in —— 
9 Winter fun 49 Arab port

 

Last week’s answers:

50 Cry
51 Bismarck or

Premlnger

52 Sticky fruit

53 War god

54 Sweet potatoes

57 Cell material:
abbr.

Practice blackout planned as
percautlon against air raids

50 years ago in the Phi — Administration plans a practice blackout
as a precaution against wartime air raids. Students must to turnout
all lights, buttraific will be allowed to continue. Students not assigned
to air raid posts must remain inside. All Virginia radio stations will

announce the end of the raid.

Five years ago in the Phi — W&L’s Minority Student Association
decides by a majority vote to boycott this year's Fancy Dress
because the theme, “The Reconciliation Ball of 1865,” celebrates a
time in which blacks had no rights, said Rosalyn Thompson, presi-

dent of MSA.

  

Publications

Needed: Editrs and Business
Managers of University

Positions Available: Editor &
Business Manager of the Calyx, Editor of
the Ariel, Editor of the Journal of Science,
and Editor of the Political Review.

Letters of Interest due March 8, I 993;
Interviews - March 15,1993

All letters of interest may be turned into Carol Calkins in the University Center.

 
     
     
      
        
 

 

 

2- =5
THE LENFEST SERIES

presents

COMPANY

 

 —rJv—§ .
HE REDUCED SHAKESPEARE

'Zany, ﬁiﬁlrious, acroﬁatic, and pure fun -- ’DO9\C‘Z‘9l/[I55 PT!’

 

 

-3*.

 

 

March 16 & 17 at 8:00 PM
LENFEST CENTER

Tickets & Reservations 463-8000 0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday -

f;=,'i*. 5?; 3: '-"-“gatg 3-,

 
 

 

     

  
  

9

  

PAGE 6 The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1993,

 >.

Photos by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

 
  

Before the Big Bang

Preparations for 1993 Fancy Dress are under-
way. clockwise from left, senior Flyland Scott
works on set construction In the Warner cen-
ter; sophomore Goose Garrigus adjusts an
overslzed boutonnlere for a very sleepy lion;
and Jackoplerce kicks ottthe weekend's musi-
cal presentations at Kappa Alpha Wednesday.

    
   
     
   
     
    
 

    
 
   

     
 
     

 
 

 

     

   

g i _ Valley   c/zrauowbow 
4 oppocioggoi ’ '
- Wh'l 'z ', ’llbty'!
A” Winter Merchandise Hardware, Paint and Related Items 13 Zegrgfféfginziiynrijsi a’"§
.   i Resumes - Cover Letters - Flyers - Copies - Binding
_ :r.‘;Ii:i:  24450 (703) 463-5988 / OpieinlMon§Sat. 8:_30 a.m.-6 p.m. Sunn E PHONE: 463 _ 1-,1‘; . FAX; .ii;3ng9Pi)§T OFF% ,
r E’ 95°" "' °"'”9‘°" . ‘ ‘”w“"E”°” mm '  '

  

v \

       

I

     

' Cannndale -— Din B- ia

    

       
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

    

  

      

  
       
       
     
 

   
       
       
   
    

   

   

 
    
  
   

  
  
 
 
 

  
  

 

 

2'3   ’-:
 , ._§ Jansport day packs and book bags
' ,n 17". 0 o
  Lexington Bike Shop
 ‘A’; ’ 130 S. Main St. Mon.—Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon 463-7969
OU I LE I S   rr V
. . "1 .‘-". ‘ N I

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women ’s Activewear,  .;',”_,f_  mt

Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount  r - . -2'1: 1870 Washingtofl Collegepiploma i‘
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive ' andﬂgstaurant “Victorian é.;'.;;..';'y Splendor”  signed RE‘ Lee

.  m I , ' "7 1’! -; 4;;_
bri?lIc::rhlilo1ii]s::flr\i)eI:lv ShierI;:E:1tsSrEoStfaI\£’oul:imaﬂ  Chef Stewart prepares daily cunnary delights  Fitzh h LeS1gnatureSR E Lee Jr
. , ‘- - - , 1:; u e . . . .
P very Ce  Feagurifng Weekly Special Entrees. Cabonaro,  M_ Miigey John Leichei
In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous 53"='-' ea °°d A""ed°’ C'“°"°“ “""' L°b5t°'°  Edward Valentine
Catalogue Men’s and Women’s weal-_  The Six Room Inn & Full service Fine Dining Room, filled with  7
_  antiques, is the perfect setting for special occasions: Graduation  W&L Copperplate. hand—co1ored
There am reductions from 25 _ 75% on Men’s and  Dinners/l..uncheons, Bridal Luncheons, Reliersal Dinners, Wedding  W&L and RE, Lee limited edition art
womenas C1 othin g .3; Receptions, Business Luncheons, Dinners, Seminars. 3;‘-_.~', Sculpture by Rori1’1‘urtiison_
‘ _  31.’. Was ing on pieces
. ' March 5 1993 :2?‘ Mary and George '

Famous 1<ﬂ1tt0PS for Women ‘ regularly $18 '  “Fancy Dress” Special lvlenu - Soup to Deserts  ' 1

Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.  March 27, 1993  ~ It
Selected Men’s and Women’s SWCEIICIS -  Virginia Wine Maker's Dinner - Six Course Dinner   “J 

regularly $40 — reduced to $7.99  June 1, 1993 to Labor Day  ~

Lexington  Special Packages for Lime Kiln Theater   l l E 
 Call for Details 
DOWnt0Wn (Robert E. Lee   Open Daily Dining Hoti5i's(:x')l'ues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday by chance)  h S O M d S t d
. _ . _ . ‘§::_:- : p.m. to 9:00 p.m.  4 East Was in ton treet pen on ay — a ur ay
H0urS',%\(/)I0n' Sat‘    Call for reservations: 703-463-9715  Lexington, VA §445O 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
3'463'9730   W4‘  ' " ‘ " " "-  "    tKl7°3) 45443454

 

 

,  :.':':'l.' - '.'.Ai'.F.'L'.'.'.‘C'. ""' .
r I.‘ ' - U
i 1    in 4 9% 14;.‘
d 5:; @ .
 HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS

' I ' ' I " ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' .-:-1-.-I-Z-1-I-7.-7.-:-I-I-IrZ-D-Z-Z-C-Z-I-i-I - . . . . . . . . . . .-I-I-1'1‘? ............................ - .-.. ----- . -.-11:-.5:-I-.-.'.'.'C4-3': F" '

" -. <1.-i. 'C":'l-'5

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.  Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

‘L

All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at

11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones '
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99 Lnninginni Viiginin 24450 (703) 463_2022
3 .~

Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable
1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95 
Saturday Night Prime Rib

Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

i Four bedroom house for 3..

rent for next school year. 
We a:‘c<:[Iiill/e'i:a1\II\fI)arsiel:i'c(:ii']d,RC(lili:itc:,18Ezl Shell i   3 

.3:
gi-3:.-...  "I'M ‘HC':'C':':':":':"C':'C':'C‘H‘H‘:':':':':'l:':'C':':'l:'l."‘:'0'l:'l:‘:'\:':'lH'C':':':':':':':'C':':':'1':':':':':":'.':':*:':':':':':'1'?!‘3':':':':':':':':':':':-:':'I5'u.'I‘:'I'1'1':':':':':':':':"-H‘:-I-I-P1-I-I-I-I-2-:-:-:-:-:-I-:-:-:-:-:--:-:-:-:-3-:-:-:-:-:.:.:.;.:.::: ,_.__.ﬂ_hn_,. _______  ____ ______n_ __n__ _   -1

Truck stop

I-I1:-C-1-I-I-I-ii-‘I-I-I-I":-1-C‘:-C‘:-H-I-I-I-E-C'C'C-Iiﬁi-1-1*!-C-C-:-I-I-i .-l -:-:-.1.'-!-:

      

The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1993

 

Hams Teeter
MEANS l.OW PRICES

SAVE $1.50 PER POUND
3o - 40 COUNT

_ LARGE
SHRIMP

_ 449

0

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
GRADE "A"

.BREASI'

ADDI

LIMIT 3' WITH
TIONAL
PURCHASE, PLEASE

      
 
       
 

.2

as

QUAItI'EII$..........  

lsEEm.Ess
wums sures

   

DIET COKE OR
COCA-COLA

69

6 PK. I2 OZ.
CANS

REDUCED
PRICE

 

ﬁm’

Y:.nImn.ntu (sh

REGISTER TO WIN IN
HARRIS TEETER'

|=|.v WITH TI-IE

' HORNETS

SWEEPSTAKES
You Could Win One Of These Fabulous
Prizes. See Details And Register At The
Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter.

T 0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando,
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
Accommodations And Game Tickets.

' One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
,5 N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations.

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

" In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Coke
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

0 One Pair Of Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away

     

PETER PAN

PEANUT
BUTTER ................. .. 18 oz.

ANGEL SOFT 157.5 SQ. FT.

169
BA .

TH 
TISSUE ............... ..4 ROLL PKG. O

IN WATER - 6. 12 OZ. CANS

HT CHUNK LIGHT E

TUNA ............... .. 2/ FoRO88

'3i$“.iivcE '49

JUICE ......... ..64 oz. CARTON
wum puncmsro WITH nus coupon
Buy One 14 Oz. Bag Of President's
Choice Peanut Butter First Cookies

I
' 1 . , I’ Z I
5252;.“  i I‘ ll  I

This Cou May1NotvB‘/e ﬁe rodarcdeélﬁimit One FLU 2925 I
Cou n Purc use it $l . intmum GROCERY

boocl March 3, lhru “

    

I Purc use. Offer "
IIOIIIS ‘Gael’

Mcirch9,l993

COUPON VALUE
§298

Ti 3 j j : j j :

VALUABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON -

'1 SAVE $1.05

SAVE 40¢ '

I When You Purchase One I5.5 Oz. Box I I When You Purchase One II.5 Oz. I

I Of Kellogg's Nut & Honey Cru

II "II

    

3930

nch O's I

I Bag Of Folgers Special Roast Coffee I

 n __ I

    

44155

This Cou n Mo Not Be R roduced. Limit One pLU 2924 I This Cou on Mo Not Be Re reduced. Limit One p]_U 2923 l
Ii‘? . " ‘h $IO.O0M'’
. $31 a'§.ﬁ:6liZ§°oZZZV‘iiarch$3l,(ih93 M'"'"""" GROCERY §$"l§Z?.EeoP”l“c3ZZVii'arch 3,111.“ '"'m”'" GROCERY

March 9,1993

PAGE 7

Baseball shows signs
of improved pitching

D ENCOURAGED, from page 8

his first career home run, also.

The margin held at one until the
Keydet halfof the eighth inning. With
one out, a runner reached base on an
error. Fantuzzi left the game at that
point. The runner eventually came
around to score to make the final 4-2
margin.

The Generals had threatened in the
top half of the eighth. With the score
still 3-2, Hesse and sophomore Duane
Van Arsdale reached with one-out
singles. VMI’s closer then came in to
the douse the flame and added a perfect

ninth for the 4-2 VMI win.

Considering that, last season,
W&L’s 21 losses came by an average
margin of six runs, and only once lost
by as few as two, the 4-2 margin is
highly respectable. Earlier this year,
the Keydets beat the Duke Bluedevils,
who in turn had beaten the Clemson
Tigers. So W&L has much to be en-
couraged about.

“I think we’re pretty good right
now,” Roberts said. “Considering
there’s only one senior and one junior,
we’ll probably just get better.”

Roberts cited the team’s perfor-
mance in Florida during February va-

That’s the way

By SEAN O’RoUR1cE
Phi Sports Editor

Question: who was the winningest
Lexington college basketball team? No,
not W&L’s men's team. No, not VMI.
That’s right, it ,was the W&L women‘s
basketball squad. Though not a true
varsity sport, the women took on some
tough competition the entire season.

Head coach Barry Machado helped
lead the team to a 7-5 mark, with two of
the losses coming to Division I
Davidson, and two others at the hands
of Meredith, the 3rd-ranked team in the
nation for Division 111. Not bad.

The swim teams had arguably the
best seasons of any team. Three men
and two women are headed to nation-

, als. Senior Claire Dudley makes her

fourth appearance at nationals, while
teammate, freshman Rebekah Prince,
makes her first.

For the men, sophomore John Rowe
makes a return trip to the “big dance.”
Joining Rowe will be senior Andrew
Pearson and freshman Craig Sears. The
men also finished the dual meet season
with a perfect 9-0 record.

Lastly, but not least, is the women’s
indoor track team. The team took its
fourth straight unofficial indoorODAC
championship witharecord 157 points.

Leading the way were two stars
who have made major impacts on the
women’s track programs.

Sophomore Sarah Gilbert (our ten-
nis ace reporter) won the long jump

cation as evidence of vast improve-
ment. Last year the Generals were
beaten fairly easily by their southern
foes. This time down, though, W&L
lost each of its four games by one run.
Two of the games went into extra in-
nings. Though they were losses, the
Generals have found a lot of positives.
“This looks like the best team we’ve
had since I’ve been,” said Loizcaux.
W&L is off until next Tuesday,
when they travel to Bridgewater Col-
lege to begin a four-game road trip in
one week. Smith Field has until March
18 to dry up, when the Generals will
welcome Mary Washington College.

it was

and high jump at the meet. She also ran
a leg of the record-setting 4 x 100 relay
team.Her performances in all herevents
earned Gilbert 40-and—a-half points by
herself.

And what women’s track story
would be complete without something
about freshman Josephine Schaeffer.
The cross country phenom made a
smooth transition to the indoor scene.

At the conference meet, Schaeffer
won the 1,500 meter race in 4:54.69,
justthree seconds from anational quali-
fying time.

She then tumed in an excellent per-
formance in the 3,000 meters. Schaeffer
lapped all but the second-place fin-
isher, and finished the race in a record
time of 10:23.88.

Spring

Organize a small

Break:
CANCUN, NASSAU
from $299
group
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

for FREE trip

«*********t***************************~k*******************w~x§

Borden Commons Condo

Two Bedroom, Two bath, Living room, Dining room,
Kitchen, Utility room, Storage area, stove, refrig.,
. ,  wastrer/dryer, niicrowave, Central heat & air, wall to
wall carpeting, no garage tax.
Call 463-4634 or 615-373-2095

¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥4¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥-¥Jh¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥‘¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥

E For Sale By Owner

:
E...

I draw the
line at three.

 

‘V-¥-V-V-‘V-‘V-V1-‘V-V-V-‘V-‘V-‘V-‘V-‘V-¥¥-V-AV-V-V-¥

Apt for Rent
5 Room Downstairs apt
207 Miller St
Call 261-7840
Within walking distance

F

 

Cape Cod House for Rent - One or
Two Year Lease. Located on Rt. 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,
dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

 CENT

Free Details: SASE to

 EX'l‘RA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE sfurnne -- ssoo - $2300 every week - 

International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn. New York 11230

 

 

V

 Q} 
: — j

___ CL‘

V.’ I-‘.

XEUET
_ .

 

2

Cefelirate the siélfverrscreen 5czfe[y.
E1112 ilting-tum lﬂlii J

. Prices Effective Through March 9, I993

Prices In This Ad Elleclive Wednesday, March 3 Throu%h Tues oy, March 9, I993. In Lexington Stores Only
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None ol

d To Dealers. We Gladly Accept tederalfood Stamps.

 

  

Last Week:

Base-VMI 4, W&L 2 (0-1)
MLax-W&L 20, R-MC 4 (1-0)
WLax-W&L 20, Guilford 6 (1-0)
MTen— JMU 6,W&L 1;

W&L 7,EMC 2 (1-1)

W This Week:
Base— at B’water 3/9
MLax— F&M 3/6 2pm
WLax- OWC 3/7 1pm; B’water 3/10 3pm
MTen- Bloomsburg 3/ 10 3pm
WTen- at R-MC 3/9
\Golf- B’water ODAC Invit. 3/9

Elbe ﬂing-mm Iﬁlri

SPORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK&F|ELD

1

PAGE 8 MARCH 4, 1993

Men’s lax open season?

    

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum I

Freshman Graig Fantuzzi shined on the mound for the Generals against VMI. Fantuzzi

gave up only 2 earned runs in the 4-2 loss.

Fantuzzi excels as
W&L falls to VMI, 4-2

By Kemr GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee baseball guide says that
head coach Jeff Stickley may “have found a fountain
of youth right here” at W&L. Fountains he probably
wouldn’t mind. However, the recent snow and rain
has turned Smith Field into the Everglades.

The “Boys of Summer” have been stuck in a
winter/spring weather mix that forced the cancella-
tion of four of the team’s first ﬁve games.

The season was to have opened Saturday in a
double-header with West Virginia Tech, followed
by one game on Sunday. Those were scratched after
last week’s snow storm left the infield good for little
but, perhaps, jungle infantry training.

Wednesday’s afternoon match-up with Holy Cross

“1’m encouraged,” said sophomore infielder
Ryan Roberts. “The pitching really looks good.”

Freshman pitcher Graig Fantuzzi started at
VMI and allowed only 2 earned runs and three
hits over7.1 innings. Those are outstanding num-
bers against anybody, let alone a superior team.
Fantuzzi also struck out five Keydets. ’

“Fantuzzi had a great game,” said the lone
junior General, catcher Chad Loizeaux.

Last year’s Generals’ pitching staff averaged
more than a hit allowed per inning. They also
posted an 8.74 ERA. Thus far, the ’93 staff’s
stands at 2.00.

“Ourpitching is young, buttalented,”Loi7.eaux
said. “We have a lot of depth with the freshman
pitchers.” ’

W&L took advantage of VMI’s field dimen-

with offensie infall ‘  

By SEAN O’RoURxE
Phi Sports Editor

Did anyone get the license
plate number of the tmck that
just ran over us?

Was that W&L or Virginia?

These were just some of the
questions the Randolph-Macon
men’s lacrosse team was asking
itself after Wednesday
aftemoon’s game against Wash-
ington and Lee.

The Yellow Jackets came to
Lexington——actually Buena
Vista, the game was moved from
Wilson Field to Glen Maury Park
because of the terrible field con-
ditions caused by the weather——
having received some national
recognition from “Lacrosse
Magazine.”

The team felt it could gain a

great deal of national respect if

they could knock off the 15th-
ranked Generals.

Obviously a simple case of
dementia.

The Generals pummeled, beat
on and raked the Yellow Jackets
over the coals—and it only got
worse in the second half. I’ll re-
lieve the tension, 20-4.

W&L was never threatened
as the team jumped out to an
early 8-0 lead.

Three players scored four
goals apiece. Senior attacker
Wiemi Douoguih led the way

  

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tumT’hi ~

This was a familiar sight at the Generals-Yellow Jackets game on Wednesday after-
noon. A R-MC defender futily chasing a W&L attacker. The end results more often than
not was a score for the Generals. W&L wins their opener, 20-4.

with four goals and four assists.

Fellow classmate David
Lefkowitz chipped in four; and
sophomore midfielder Scott
Mackley rounded out the trio with
four.

W&L has now won 14 of the
last 15 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference games.

The Generals get no break,
really, as they have the dubious
distinction of having to play the
Saturday afternoon after Fancy
Dress.

What makes it even more dif-
ficult is the opponent. W&L hosts
13th-ranked Franklin &
Marshall, an important game for

postseason consideration.
The“game-within-the-garae”
intrigue will be closely watched
as well. W&L assistant coach
John Burgess was a player at
F&M, while former W&L All-
American Robert Huke is in his

rookie season as an assistant V.

coach for F&M. .

had to be canceled due to rain (Holy Cross did not
drive from New York for nothing—they were sched-
uled to play Virginia Military Institute on Thursday).

The Generals, however, did squeeze in their game
versus the neighboring Keydets Tuesday and showed
that Stickley’s fountain of youth may, indeed, be a
treasure. W&L lost, 4-2, to the Division I-AA squad,
but that loss produced far more positives than nega-

tives.

sions by hitting a pair of solo home runs. Trailing
2-0 after one inning, sophomore Bates Brown
connected for his first career homer.

After falling behind 3-1, the Generals closed
to within one run again on a Jon Hesse round-
tripper in the sixth. Hesse is the team’s captain
and the only senior on the 24-man roster. It was

El See ENCOURAGED, page 7

Tennis teams open with
questions and expectations

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

This spring is looking very
sunny at Washington and Lee,
not only in the weather but also
in the women’s and men’s tennis
teams.

Head coach Cinda Rankin’s
women’s team is ranked 11th in
Division III, and her number one
player, sophomore Marilyn
Baker, is ranked ninth among
other Division III players.

The doubles team of Baker
and freshman Julie Ayers is
ranked 16th, which is quite amaz-
ing considering Ayers has yet to
prove herself during an entire
season.

Not bad for a tennis team that
has only been in existence for
seven years.

“I have high expectations,”
Rankin said. “We have a good
team, and they’re playing well
now. People are enthusiastic and
looking forward.”

Rankin said that the team’s
goal was simply to win the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
championship, which may seem
unusual for a team ranked na-
tionally.

But extenuating circum-
stances have forced Rankin to
reconsider the feasibility of the
team’s original goals.

“Three of my top six players
are going abroad five days be-

fore the conference champion-
ships, and that changes every-
thing,” Rankin said. “So every
team member is critical; it’ll be a
hat trick if we can pull it off.”

Top performances this year
are expected from Baker, junior
captain Kim Dickinson, who
faces a tough challenge as the
number two player; and fresh-
man number three player Shelley
Sunderman.

The Generals’ schedule could
be the toughest of any spring
sport and should tell much about
the level of the team’s talent.
They face five teams which are
ranked in the top 20 nationally,
including Kenyan, who was
ranked first during the fall.

Though the men’s team is not
as highly thought of when it
comes to the national rankings.

JuniorRobbieMacNaughton,
the Generals first singles star, is
again ranked in the top 30 in pre-
season polls, at number 29. He
and another talented freshman
have achieved, like in the
women’s case, a rare pre—season
ranking in doubles.

MacNaughton and Peter
Hammond are ranked 10th in the
doubles pre—season poll.

Head coach Gary Franke is
optimistic about the team’s
chances this season.

“This team’s got a lot of po-
tential, but it’s too early to tell as
to its ability,” he said. “We’re

starting three freshmen, but so
far they’re working hard and do-
ing everything we ask of them.”

Critical for the success of the
team will be MacNaughton; num-
ber two junior Robert Wein,
freshman Chris MacNaughton
(yes, Robbie’s younger brother),
at the number three spot and
Hammond who starts the season
as the Generals’ number four
singles player.

Considering how young this
squad is, Franke’s goals for this
season are tempered with cau-
tion.

‘‘I’d like to have a dual meet
record above .500 and do well in
the conference,” Franke said.
“We have three matches against
teams ranked above us nation-
ally, and if we can beat some of
these teams, hopefully we can
get a team bid to the tourna-
merit.”

Although both teams’ early
matches were postponed because
of weather, the men’s team was
able to get two matches in on
Tuesday. The team split in two
(not literally) and took on James
Madison University and Eastern
Mennonite College. The Gener-
als were able to obtain a split.

J MU defeated the Generals 6-
1, which a new Division I scor-
ing method. The “second team”
easily disposed of ODAC rival
EMC, 7-2. The men are now 1 -1
overall, 1-0_ in the ODAC.

Women’s lacrosse team
swats Quakers, 20-6 '

By SEAN O’RoURr<r2
Phi Sports Editor

What do the Chicago Bulls, Pittsburgh
Penguins and Duke Blue Devils all have in
common? They have all repeated as champi-
ons of their respective sports.

The Washington and Lee women’s la-
crosse team would very much like to join
that exclusive list.

The Generals won their first Old Domin-
ion Athletic Championship ever last year,
and now they have the chance to join the
exclusive club of repeaters.

But winning the crown the
first time is nothing compared
to holding it the following sea-
son, something head coach
Janine Hathom knows all too
well.

“It is unrealistic to say oth-
erwise,” Hathom said. “Now
that we have actually accom-
plished our goal, we're no
longer a come-from-behinder.
There’ s no sneaking up on any-
one anymore.”

If there was ever a possibil-
ity that W&L could sneak up on someone,
that possibility was shattered yesterday at
Guilford.

Prior to the game, Hathom said she was
not sure how the team would respond to the
pressure of trying to repeat since the Quak-
ers were their first opponents of the 1993
season.

“I don’t know how they’ll respond. We
haven’t played yet,” Hathom said. “But we
haven’t approached anything differently this
season, and what makes it easier is the stu-
dents have willingly accepted the challenge.”

Well, the Generals let the rest of the
country know on Wednesday afternoon that

11th-place ranking in Division III is not
unwarranted.

W&L made the three-plus hour trip to
North Carolina and left a few hours later
with a 20-6 victory.

    

( Ripken

To say this was ugly would have to be the
proverbial understatement of the season.

The Generals entered the half with a
resounding 16-2 edge, and then decided
enough was enough, and played the Quakers
even the rest of the way.

Leading the scoring barrage was sopho-
more stand-outNicole Ripken. The 3rd home/
attack wing racked up six goals in the gener-
als’ overwhelming performance.

Hot on Ripken’s heels was senior co-
captain Lisa Dowling. The scoring machine
tallied five goals of her own, putting her one-
ninth of the way to another record-setting
performance for goals in a
season.

Itisalittleearlytobethink-
ing of that, but I wanted to be
the first to mention it.

The team’s performance
proved Hathorn’s earlier
thought that attack was the
strongest aspect of the squad.

With Dowlrng, Ripken,
Angie Carrington, Pauline
Mita and Lindsay Coleman,
Hathom thinks she has some
of the best players around.

“Our strength is our attack,” Hathom
said, “anyone and all are as good as there is
in the conference. Plus, with Meredith Long,
Cynnie Logan and Cheryl Taurassi we have
depth.”_

Hathom thinks defense is the part of the
team that will have to be worked on the
hardest.

The defense lost one of theanchors of the
unit with the graduation of All-American
honorable mention Whitney Hopkins.

“All the returnees have the talent, they
just have big shoes to fill.

“I have a lot of confidence in Sarah Smith
in goal. She just has to have confidence in
herself,” Hathom said.

The Generals have passed the first of 14
tests that will hopefully lead them back to the
promised land. I-lathorn thinks this team has
what it takes.

    
  
  
  

2NeWHOuSeSbuiltwithstudentsinmind . . . :3 
4{VBegro/c1>Sns,2lS3aths,Modern Kitchen, Large Living Area, Furnished Living Room/Bedroom 5; Four Bedroom house for rent 
as er ryer, tove, Refri er t , d C tr 1 H . F 11 ° - ' -~ 55 I I
basement for recreation. FI%)ntaaCI)1IO.2ll)21Ck ggckas. lgziiiilels COmb1nat1On' Prlvate Bath‘ 10-month 5: for next School year ‘ E.
Southwest of Lexington. $600/month +d 't. C t t ' . E5 :
Kenney’s Burger 463-5730 or call itlisiﬁlzszrin ac lease’ S-mgles only’ can 463 3835  ....................  ‘
Do You Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards? : STUDENT SERVICES.BOX l792ll.Pl_AflTATION.FL 33318 : _ _
N W U can ha M “h d d , '   . ciudiotronics
....,..... .:...r°,..... .. .15. .:.r.._.vr..":.°::.:.=°.:§::.”:c.:a*. - YES. Iwantwsae/MAsrERcARDe c-an . D;:,°;°N'   -
cmd|tCl)sﬁl;y;A15FrI:3rEENP%'JEI{iNg’DYggwA§r; I Cards. Enclosed nnd s'5 which is 100% refundable if not I ADCOM A,_,',,NE
“Sm d ‘M mcarde th d“ and ' : 3PPT0VEd lmmedlalebﬁ I TOSHIBA MARANTZ
an as C CR? C S U KEF CWD
deserve and need lor— |D—BOOKS—Dl-ZPARTMI-JET | NAME : BOSTON DEFINITIVE
. STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMENT— , KLIPSCH BAzooi<A
   I ' SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM 4
HCITELS—MOTELS—C.AS—-QAR RENrA1,s— ' ' ° BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
REPA1RS—AND TO emu) YOUR caraorr mmncr | CITY STATE _ ZIP I I .°,,’f§‘,'3;".E‘?,-LE‘;f§,'.‘c°é”c‘§§?‘s‘r'§T””E”T
u.‘»“i[ﬂ I :   : : '<fAERhtg(3i/isli\R7B‘l[:(S:OvER
"' Swain; no credit: _ I SIGNATURE - (800) 468-6667
msﬁlﬂaﬁin ‘:‘c‘ "0 securjty deposrt! ' NOTE: Mastc.rClrd Is I registered tndennrk d’ Mn¢crOu'd International. Inc. I Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
mil‘ ogﬁ‘ . ' ' Vtsa Is a registered tnderrnrk of VISA USA. Inc and VISA lntcmauonal I Overlooking Tanglewood Mall .
0‘ ' A-PPWV3’ 3b5°'“t¢lY8“31'3"t¢€d 50 | Servltzs Asetrldlon. ‘coy GUARAWIEEDI ' 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke
. ° . ~

“We gotthe monkey off our back last year,
so we won’t surprise anyone. But this team
has a lot going for it. There’s a good pressure

and this team is sitting in a pretty nice spgt.” ,

File Photo

Junior 3rd home/attack An ie

Carrington will be one of the key to _

the Generals’ success this season.

Carrington helps anchor the strong .

attack unit that produced 20 goals
against Guilford on Wednesday. W&L
was led by sophomore Nicole Ripken
with six goals, and senior Li a
Dowling, who chipped in five.

I u I I : : : n IIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIl‘l"lIlI‘[l||

 

  
   
 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRAFIY
WASHNGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXlNC-STON, VA 2/M50

JAN 2 3 1993

 

Sr. PArRIcI<’s Roots

Today’s tradition of eating,
drinking and making merry
arises from a more solemn history

9

Lox teams still blistering
Both squads

face biggest tests
this weekend

VOLUME 92, No.21
——s

Petition
calls for
women’s
center

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi Contributing Writer

Washington and,Lee women
want a place to call their own.

8 petition addressed to Dean
of Students David Howison asks
that one of two soon—to—be-va-
cated fraternity houses be re-
served for future use as a
women’s center. Sigma Chi and
Sigma Phi Epsilon will move to
Daﬂdson Park.

Women’s Forum President
Shannon Comer said she has got-
ten about 400 signatures since
she began to circulate the peti-
tion Monday.

“As things are now, there is
no place for women to meet that
is exclusively ours,” the petition
says. “Even the Arlington
Women’s Center is often occu-
pied by groups other than women.
Males on this campus have 16
beautiful fraternity houses.”

‘3Nothing’s been decided on
the use of these houses,” Howison
said. “I have recommended that
the Sigma Chi house be used as
an administrative facility for stu-
dents. I think the Sig Ep property
should be sold. It would be great
as Qbed and breakfast.”

Tuition to rise to $13,100 in fall

he ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Phtoby Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi
Waiting for fame and fortune

Cathargo Films said about 500 people turned out for a casting call Wednesday for
extra roles in the film version of “The Foreign Student.” Cathargo is seeking extras
for crowd shots, and some of the extras will be paid. Under a gag rule, Cathargo
staff would not talk about any specific roles. Filming in Lexington forthe movie will
begin on May 3. Most of the movie will be shot in Richmond.

   

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Q _Phi Contributing Writer

Clinton plans to reform studentloans

MARCH S1 1 , 1 993

IFC proposal says
later Rush, no caps

By FAITH TRUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The IFC will present its rec-
ommendations to revise men’s
Rush to the Student Affairs Com-
mittee this week.

The Interfratemity Council
proposal does not include a quota
system or cap on pledge class
sizes, but it does set a new time
for Rush.

It also includes a way to re-
strict communal sources of alco-
hol in the first two weekends of
the school year, which would be
open contact for freshmen.

The open discussion began
with a heated debate on the pos-
sibility of limiting pledge class
sizes.

“I’mtotally opposed toacap,”
Phi Delta'Iheta juniorBillyGuice
said. “The IFC doesn’t have the
right to tell you how many guys
you can take. I wouldn’t want to
give up someone I wanted for the
sake of another fraternity.”

IFC President Sam Rock of-
fered support for caps.

“It would relax people, and
they could have some assurance
that a house wouldn’t take 30 or
40 guys, draining another house
of five or six guys,” Rock said.

Rock also stressed that a cap
system would encourage fresh-
men to look more carefully at a

wider variety of houses.

But caps met much~more op-
position than support.

“Ifahousedoesn’tputenough
effort in to have a good Rush it’s
their fault,” sophomore Phi
Gamma Delta Paul Wright said.
“We shouldn't penalize a frater-
nity for putting on a great Rush.”

A majority of the IFC mem-
bers voted not to include caps in
the proposal.

Rock said SAC will not add
caps to the proposal without IFC
approval.

“SAC will not try to impose
anything. [Caps] weren’t some-
thing they suggested,” IFC Vice
President Tom Washmon said.
“We brought [caps] up to hear
what you wanted to say. If you
oppose it, that’s it.”

The council voted and ap-
proved a new Rush schedule.
Formal Rush would begin on the
second Sunday of the academic
school year. Nine open houses
would be held the first week of
Rush. The third weekend of the
school year would be the only
two nights of closed contact. The
following week would consist of
three nights of dinner parties and
Tear Night on Friday.

Differing from last year, there
would be two weekends of open
contact after freshmen arrive but
before Rush begins. IFC mem-
bers expressed concern that al-

cohol would be given to the fu-
ture rushees during open contact.

After some discussion, Rock
proposed that IFC representatives
walk around to each fraternity
party to check that no rules are
being broken.

“The IFC would go around to
enforce the regular IFC rules: no
communal source of alcohol and
guest lists,” Rock said.

Offenders would receive so-
cial probation.

The IFC next will address
current difficulties with deferred
pledgeship. According to IFC
rules, pledgeship activities should
not begin until December. But
Rock said some fraternities have
broken that rule.

The IFC members agreed to
keep deferred pledgeship.

“The IFC has made acommit—
ment to enforce the deferred
pledgeship and will need to come
up with a scale of ﬁnes that will
be fairly severe,” Rock said.

When the IFC presents itspro—
posal to SAC, SAC will recom-
mend changes to the IFC’s pro-
posal until they believe it is ready
for a faculty vote.

The faculty meets the first
Monday of each month. The fac-
ulty will have to vote on the Rush
proposal because it adjusts the
schedule of events‘, Rock said.

Rock also said that any

Cijxt-If‘

.-4 ~41.-‘G :

‘J

351515;’? g .
i " *3‘-.'5{§4{_?}'T;

changes could be temporary.

 

 

W&L students and their parents will have to dig
a little deeper into their pocketbooks next year.

Tuition will increase 6.2 percent next year,
raising the cost of a Washington and Lee education
to $13,100 per year, from $12,330 per year.

e increase is necessary “in order to permit us
to continue to pay faculty members and others and
to keep materials current,” University Treasurer
Lawrence Broomall said. “Our other sources of
revenue are not keeping up with the growth of the
budget.”

Broomall said the budget has increased 4.7
~ per&:nt for next year. The extra increase in tuition
gives the university room in the budget, he said.

A University President lohn Wilson said there has
been a 300 percent increase in tuition at Washing-
ton and Lee since 1983. If tuition continues in-
creasing at the current rate, W&L will cost more
than $22,000 a year by 2003, Wilson said.

Qtudents receiving ﬁnancial aid should be cov-
» ered, Wilson said. The Financial Aid department is
getting a 14 percent increase in its budget next year
to offset the tuition hike.
‘Broomall said that even with the tuition hike,
W&L is still the best buy around.
“We’re still $1,800 behind the next best buy in

By RICHARD PELI7.
Phi Executive Editor

President Bill Clinton’s pro-
posal to reform higher education
includes student loans directly
from the government and a na-
tional service program for stu-
dents to pay off loans.

Clinton introduced the national
service program in a speech at
Rutgers University in New
Brunswick, N.J., on March 1.

The program would be similar
tothe GI Bill,aprograrn by which
studentseammoneyfortheiredu—
cation by serving in the military,
Clinton said.

Under Clinton ’s proposal, stu-
dents might work with police,
senior citizens or students, on
environmental projects or in
neighborhood cleanup programs,
he said.

Clinton emphasized the role
of people rather than government
in the program.

“I want it to empower young
people and their communities,
not to empower yet another gov-
ernment bureaucracy in Wash-
ington,” he said.

The switch to direct lending
to students from the government
willplant control of student loans
in Washington, where critics say
bureaucracy could smother the
program.

The Consumer Bankers As-
sociation, which says it repre-
sents about 700 banks, including
most of-. the student lenders, says
student loan programs could suf-
fer in bureaucratic hands.

“We support the call for na-
tional service,” CBA Vice Presi-
dent of Communications Fritz
Elmendorf said in an interview
Monday. “We think it’s unfortu-
nate that the president wants to
link that to the direct loan idea.”

Elmendorf said the
president’s proposal would put
the Department of Education in
charge of disbursing student

, loans and the Internal Revenue
Service in charge of collecting
them.

“The two issues are whether
it will work and whetherthe DOE
has the management expertise to
make it work,” Elmendorf said.

He said there might also be
problems with loan collection.

“If I were a student, I'd be
concerned about having the IRS
rather than a bank in charge of
loan collection,” Elmendorf said.
“[The IRS is] not a great agency
to deal with when you have a
dispute.”

Elmendorf said the free—mar-
ket competition that exists among

. banks in the loan business now
would be absent in Clinton's plan,
and service would suffer.

He said Clinton’s proposal
would “scrap a very good pro-
gram that works.”

But the president said the cur-
rent system needs reform.

Cl See LOANS, page 7

US News and World Report.”

  
   

irvild art

M Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring—tum Phi

Marvin C. Henberg, ’70, addressesthe Phi Beta Kappa
Convocation Wednesday. Thirty-two seniors, seven
juniors and seven members of the class of ’92 were
inducted into the Gamma Virginia Chapter at W&L.
flenberg talked about the power of the wilderness as
an influence on the American character.

Speaker, ceremony
celebrate information

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Reader RelationsvCoordinator

The Ring-turn Phi is plarming to com-
memorate Freedom of Information Day
Monday with a speaker and dedication to
the late Professor Clark R. Mollenhoff.

Rick Swagler, Esq., ’84, will speak
Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel on
“The Fight for a Free Press: All Is Not
Quiet at the Front.”

Swagler, a former editor—in—chief of
the Phi, is a staff attorney at the Washing-
ton—based Reporters Committee for Free-
dom of the Press and is the managing
editor of its publications, including the
quarterly magazine “The News Media and
the Law.”

The Reporters Committee provides free
legal assistance to journalists to ensure
“fast, full and free information and help in
battling for First Amendment protections
against government interference.”

Also on Monday, at 3 p.m. in front of
Reid Hall, the Phi will dedicate a tree in
memory of Mollenhoff, formerly a pro-
fessor of journalism.

Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize—winning
journalist, was a staunch advocate of press

access to government documents. As a
professor, he stressed thorough record re-
search and corroboration of facts.

Mollenhoff taught at Washington and
Lee from 1976 until his death in 1991.
Prior to his teaching career, he was a
reporter, author, syndicated columnist and
presidential omsbudsman.

An obituary in The Ring—tum Phi in
February, 1991 , called Mollenhoffaunique
individual, a man possessed of a vigorous
work ethic and unshakable integrity. That
integrity led to his turning down a bribe
from Teamsters leader Jimmy Hoffa, tell-
ing the man who controlled multi-millions
of dollars in Teamsters pension funds,
“You can’t afford my price.”

Mollenhoffhadanurnber of distinctive
classroom idiosyncracies and physical

_ traits that helped make him unforgettable.

He stood 6’4” tall and weighed in the
neighborhood of 240 pounds, with a rum-
bling voice to match. Mollenhoff was af-
fectionately known as “The Boomer”
(though never to his face), a nickname he
acquired in Washington from berating bu-
reaucrats and politicians for corruption
and duplicity. Student who came to class

C] See MOLLENHOFF, page 7

Pamphlets promoting sexual assault awareness are available in the

Dams:
DAis't::It»:Rc>I:s_r

    

  

University Center. Sexual Assault Awareness Week runs March 15-21.

Coalition promotes
assault awareness

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

To increase awareness of sexual as-
saulton campus, several groups will spon-
sor a Sexual Assault Awareness Week
March 15-21.

The Health Education Committee,
Dean of Students Office, Women’s Fo-
rum and Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault are the sponsors.

“The biggest thing we want to get
accomplished is to get awareness out,”
said Dionne Blyden, a co-chairrnan for
the week. “There are ways of getting help
within or outside the university.”

This year, Associate Dean of Students
Anne Schroer-Larnont said she has coun-
seled four W & L women for rape and two
for sexual assault .

According to Dean of Students David
Howison, no formal reports of sexual
misconduct have been forwarded to the
Student Faculty Hearing Board, which is
authorized to hear sexual misconduct al-
legations involving W&L students. As-
sociate Dean of Students Anece McCloud
said there have been two informal reports
of sexual misconduct.

Blyden said lapel ribbons have been
available in the University Center and
library since March 3 to heighten aware-
ness of sexual assault. Schroer-Larnont
said the ribbons have been in great de-
mand.

Blyden said booths will be set up next
week near the Co-op and the GHQ where

people can tie a ribbon for people they
know who have been sexually assaulted.
Co-chairman Cara Snyder said students

‘ will also be able to express their opinions

on sexual assault on quote boards set up at
the ODK Circle and in the University
Center near the Generals Headquarters.

Blyden said the first formal awareness
program, featuring a video developed last
year by W&L seniors, will be Monday at
7:30 p.m. in the Gaines third-floor lounge.

On March 18 at 5 p.m., keynote speaker
Ron Campbell will lead a discussion “For
Men Only” in the Troubadour about
changes in relationships between men and
women.

Campbell, a human sexuality educator

and the director of housing at George I

Mason University, has conducted over
200 workshops around the country and
specializes in talking to men, Schroer-
Larnont said.

Campbell will give a second talk en-
titled “Sexpectations” on March 18 at 8
p.m. in the Lenfest Center's Keller The-
atre. On March 21 at 6:30 p.m., there will
be a Speak Out in front of Lee Chapel
followed by a candlelight march. After-

ward, there will be a healing service for‘

sexual assault survivors, their families
and friends in Lee Chapel.

Snyder said sexual assault is a problem
that needs to be addressed in a thoughtful,
tasteful and reflective manner.

“We want to recognize the connection
between alcohol and sexual assault,” she
said. “We want to raise campus conscious-
ness.”

 

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 Tfting-tum lﬂht

Founded September 18, 1897

‘I love you,
you love me’

Have you been reading all this ﬂap about Barney the Dinosaur?

Parents say that big, purple Bamey, who appears on PBS in the
early morning, after the bars close, when only children are still
awake, is too juvenile.

Hey, folks, guess what! The dinosaurs died! Barney is not real!
All you kids shut your eyes —- Barney is a man in a really hot,

rubber suit. In fact, it’s not necessarily the same man every time.

OK, kids, open your eyes again.

Kids like Barney because he is juvenile. Children are juvenile.
That’s where we get the word.

ForGod’s sake, parents, if you don’tlike Bamey, stop watching
him! Sleep in! If the kids don’t have to watch “MacGyver,” you
don’t have to watch the dinosaur. After all, which would you rather
your kids be doing? Singing and dancing, or building a bomb out
of household cleaning agents?

Now go to your room.

Dress safely

Good news for the Ladies Hospital Auxiliary. Bell bottoms,
clompy footwear and those kind of whispy-gypsy skirts are all
coming back.

We want you to know that we can see all of you from our
windows in the Phi office as you go to class. We can see what you
wear. And we’re armed.

If any of you have the urge to wear any of these returning ’70s
fashions, be sure you also equip yourself with a Keflarm vest
underneath those duds. Emphasis on “duds.”

And while we’re on the subject of fashion, can you believe the
nerve of people who wear Reeboks with their tuxes to FD?
Imagine. As tactless as a newspaper editor.

What we really need is a Fashion Committee. We could have a
new dean in charge of it. It would all be behind closed doors, of
course, to protect the innocent victims of fashion faux pas. If
refonn were deemed possible by the committee, the person would
get a second chance. Otherwise, adios!

Tax man cometh

It’s that time of year again.

Remember the little birdies that packed up their little birdie
luggage last fall and went south? Well, they’re back.

And you have only about a month left to ﬁle your taxes. We
have some tips for before you begin:

1. If you’re blind, plan on reading the instructions very, very

carefully. There are alot of special breaks forblind people, but you L

have to read the instructions very, very carefully.

2. If you are prone to motion sickness (or if you’re just prone),
take a Dramarninem. You’ll be going in a lot of circles and getting
nowhere fast.

3. Review basic trigonometry. Nothing fancy, but you’ll be
asked to compute the circumference of the earth with your armual
income. Scratch paper is allowed, but no watches that beep.

4. Start now. It’s probably too late already. But start now. In the
instructions to the 1040, you ’ll ﬁnd estimates to the minute of how
long it takes to fill out any given form (we’re not making that up).
First of all, who sits there with a stopwatch and figures that out?
Second of all, multiply by six to ﬁnd the average time for humans.

Quote of the Week

Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 4. If under 65 and not blind,
stop here.
— Internal Revenue Service, Form 1040 Instructions

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1992

OPINION

 
 

\\T,Yj" kl,

lTI" 1,, lj;_1l_ .l

at J
\ - a

 ,ea‘;§*‘aita  Q“

\‘j

0

PresidentMCIinton pl ys the Nixon Card

WASHINGTON —~ Bill Clinton

for a Russian aid program. His courte-

partisan favor.

;

at Key Biscayne. Over Cokes, the tzvo

played the Nixon Card this week. He
invited the former president to the White
House, received him upstairs in the
family quarters, then sat down to talk

ous reception of Nixon has already
graced Clinton, as well as his Monday
evening guest, withamagnanimity that
often separates the big leaders from the

 
 
 
   

politics —— Rus— small.
sian politics. There are
Likeanyfree precedents.
trade. the ex- CHRISTOPHER InMayof
change ben- 1945, just a
efited both par— MATTHEWS month after
ties. _ Tribune Media F ran kl in
For NIXOTI, S - Roosevelt’s
the value of that en/Ices _ death placed
Monday himinthe
eveningisincal— presidency,
culable. Harry
Twenty-one years after Watergate, he Truman invited Herbert Hoover tomeet

was back at the White House, offering
his counsel to a Democratic president.
Thanks to Bill Clinton, he has regained,
at 80, the honor of serving his country.

The benefit to Bill Clinton is also
apparent. At 47, he has spent his life
learning politics, American-style.
Nixon, who speaks the same language,
can translate conditions in Russia with
the kind of verve and color the younger
man can well exploit when he meets
President Yeltsin April 3.

But his meeting with Nixon was
more than a tutorial. That he could
have gotten over the telephone. Hav-
ing the only U.S. president ever to
resign his <0ffIC€ back to the White
House was a far grander gesture. It may
help Clinton win Republican support

him at the White House.

For Hoover, who had been driven
from office 13 years earlier and
villainized thereafter as the arch-de-
mon of the Great Depression, it was a
poignant moment. For Truman, a man
of guts, it was merely the right thing to
do to a former president, and the right
time to do it.

Truman did more than have Hoover
for a visit. He asked the former presi-
dent to oversee the European food re-
lief program, a role similar to the one
Hoover had played in the months after

World War]. Next, he asked the former.

Republican chief executive to chair a
commission overhauling the entire
Executive Branch of government.

In 1960, Hoover returned the non-

Once again, the country was in tran-
sition. John F. Kennedy and Richard
Nixon had just fought the closest presi-
dential election in modern history.
There was rampant bittemess about

chatted about the election, let the pho-
tographers take their pictures, let the
country know that the election was
over, the country had a new President.

This Tuesday evening at the White

vote-stealing in
Chicago, talk of
a recount, talk of
throwing the
presidential
choice to the
House of Repre-
sentatives. Only
one man could
end the divisive
chatter andmake
even his most
ardent support-
ers accept the
painfully close
results of the
prior week’s
election:

The man who
had lost it.

This is where
Hoover came in.
At the request of
the Democratic
candidate’s fa-
ther,
Kennedy... the

former Republican president called. “iittwas the guest who

Joe .

This Tuesday evening at
the White House, the
country beheld a similar
ratiﬁcation. Nixon, forced
to resign the office a gen-
eration ago, came to ad-
vise the first representa-
tive of the country’s new
generation of post-Cold
War leaders. Bill Clinton,
whose own wife, Hillary,
served as a staff counsel
to the House Judiciary
Committee which voted
to impeach Nixon, re-
ceived him.

I-,.’.«»

House, the country
beheld a sim1.rar
ratification.
Nixon, forced to
resign the office a
generation ago,
came to advise the
first representa ive
of the countr ’s
new generation of

. post-Cold War

leaders. Bill
Clinton, whose
own wife, Hillary,
served as a staff
counsel to Hie
House Judiciary
Committee which
voted to impeach
Nixon, received
him.

As in each
meeting beforel—
Truman
Hoover in 1945,
Nixon
Kennedyin 1960,
stood mostto gain,

and,

and _

I Richard Nixon to say that John Kennedy

would like to meet him.
Nixon agreed, receiving Kennedy

' but it wasthe host who shined bright-
est. ‘ g

o 1993, Tribune Media Services, Inc. G

Elite iﬁing-tum ilﬂlrt

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiccolo, Richard Peltz

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Chicago falls flat on educational promise

WASHINGTON —Tuesday in Chicago an eman-
cipation may begin. A judge will decide whether to
hear a suit brought by some inner city parents and
children, charging that the state is failing to fulfill its
education duty.’ The suit seeks an empowering
remedy-—vouchers, with a value of the pro rata share
of state funds allotted to the children’s education.
The vouchers would be redeemable at public or
private schools.

Welcome to judicial ac-

sarne student population,” and have “extensive pa-
rental involvement.”

The suit’s “parental liberty” claim goes like this.
Children are subject to compulsory school atten-
dance laws. Parents are subject to compulsory taxa-
tion for public schools, to which children are as--
signed primarily by residence. The parents in this
suit, like most Chicago school parents, lack the

resources to move in search of
better public schools. So,

tivism of the sort advocated
by the Institute for Justice, a
Washington group of young
libertarian lawyers. Their
civil rights suit for their Chi-
cago clients charges that the
children are being denied a
benefit guaranteed by Illi-
nois’ constitution, and that
the parents are being denied
a liberty (“essential inﬂuence, control or choice over
their children’s education”) implicitly guaranteed by
the U.S. Constitution.

Illinois’ constitution asserts: “The state shall
provide for an efficient system of high quality public
educational institutions and services.” No one can
seriously say that is being done for Chicago’s inner
city students, 80 percent of whom are black or
Hispanic. So, is the constitutional language
justifiable or meaningless? ‘

The average graduation rate in Chicago’s public
schools is 43.7 percent, 43 percentage points below
the statewide average. Less than one of every three
Chicago public high schools has a graduation rate
above 50 percent. About 70 percent of public school
students score below the national norm in a standard-
ized test of basic skills, and substantially below
statewide averages. Thirty-eight of the 64 high
schools have ACI‘ college admission test scores in
the bottom l—yes, 1— percent of the nation.

Chicago’ s bureaucratized system expends $5,548
per pupil, about $750 more than the statewide aver-
age, but only 56 percent of the total budget goes for
classroom instruction. The parents’ brief notes that
private schools provide better cognitive results at
less per pupil expense “in the same neighborhoods as
the city’s worst public schools and draw from the

  
 
   

GEORGE WILL

Washington Post
Writers Gropp

given the stark inadequacies
of the public schools, it is ger-
mane that the U.S. Supreme
Court has invalidated state
action that “unreasonably in-
terferes with the liberty of
parents . . . to direct the up-
bringing and education of chil-
dren.”

The court has also held that
“providing public schools ranks at the very apex of
the function of the state.” But what recourse have
poor inner city parents when the provision consti-
tutes an educational caste
system that stunts the life

tute an educational “guarantee”? That language says
“the state shall provide . . . ” The Illinois Suprdne
Court has held that “ in construing statutory provi-
sions . . . the word ‘shall’ is regarded as indicative of
a mandatory legislative intent.” Why would that not
be true of constitutional provisions as well? .

Both Illinois and federal courts have exercised
judicial review regarding, for example, whether pub-
lic schools have provided, as required by law, “ap-
propriate” education for disabled pupils. Therefore,
the brief argues, courts can decide whether Illinois
clearly is not providing “an efficient system of high
quality” education. And the voucher response is
within the court’s remedial powers because it is
analogous to the practice of ordering public payment
of tuition for disabled pupils at private schools when
public schools are unable to fulfill their obligations
to such pupils.

The Institute has a similar suit on behalf of some
residents of South-Central Los Angeles. In that
city's unified school district fewer than 5 percent of
schools report scores for ninth graders above the
50th percentile nationwide in standardized tests.oAt

two of the high schools .

attended by plaintiffs,

chances of their chil-

scores rank in the bot-

dren? In the words of the
court’s 1954 school de-
segregation decision,
when a state undertakes
to provide public educa-
tion, it “is a right which
must be available to all
on equal terms.” A
voucher remedy would

.be egalitarian.

The parents’ brief
stresses that they “do not
seek to second-guess any
legislative judgments, to
displace any statutes, or
to disturb bureaucratic

Both Illinois and federal courts
have exercised judicial review re-
garding, for example, whether pub-
lic schools have provided, as re-
quired bylaw , “appropriate” edu-
cation for disabled pupils. There-
fore, the brief argues, courts can
decide whether Illinois clearly is
not providing “an efficient system
of high quality” education.

tom 1 or 2 percent in
statewide math and
reading tests. The 1990
dropout rate in Los An-
geles public high
schools (40.9 percent)
was twice the statewide
rate.

The graduation rate
for inner city private
schools nationwide.is
about 97 percent. .

As in Chicago, the
issue is: Can a state
entirely evade judicial
review of whether it is

discretion reasonably exercised.” Rather, “the focus
of this litigation is not how the defendants should
fulfill their duties . . . but instead whether they have
fulfilled” them.

Does the Illinois constitution’s language consti-

performing constitutional duties? A particularly
pertinent question, given that about half the Chic or
public school teachers with school-age children sgd
them to private schools.

© 1993, The Washington Post Writers Group .

LETTERS

Student denounces Contact’s speaker choices I

To the Editor:

The Contact committee provides
Washington and Lee with a tremen-
dous opportunity to bring thought-
provoking, educational, stimulating
and challenging figures to the univer-
sity whose knowledge and insight can
enrich our collegiate experience. Un-
fortunately, it seems that the current
authorities on Contact are more inter-
ested in bringing trivial celebrities with

little depth or substance to offer stu-
dents.

This disappointing trend hit its nadir
with the visit of Dick Vitale whose
inappropriate and expensive appearance
was followed up this year by Rocky
Bleier.

Why are we lavishing exorbitant
funds to bring sports celebrities to speak
at the university?

Other invitees have included right-

wing darlings Gordon Liddy and Ed
Meese, men most prominent not for
their vision, intelligence or contribu-
tions but for their appalling corruption.
This campus is crying out for deep
intellectual engagement and enlight-
enment and we invite, at considerable
cost, sports celebrities and right-wing
heroes?!

These speaker selections reﬂect a
disturbingly unarnbitious outlook by

Contact authorities and are embarrass-
ing to the University; they make Wab-
ington and Lee look like a haven for
intellectual slugs!

I doubt that I am alone in finding
them absolutely absurd. Perhaps more
unsettling is the silence with which,
until now, these poor decisions have
been met. Q

Justin Peterson, ’94

 

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1993

 

Spos tights ticket with ‘L.A. Law’ style

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

‘Hey folks! Did everybody have a
good weekend? Spos sure did. I’d like
to tell you the story about how I ended
up double-fisting vodka and triple sec
on my front porch in my bathrobe this
weekend, but I don’t wish to bore you.
Bl¥)the way, Ted Nugent says hello and
p mises the release of a new “Damn
Yankees” album right after he lands his
first grizzly bear. Don’t hold your
breath.

Anyway, I suppose I should get on
with it and tell you about Tuesday
moming’s ordeal, which I will refer to
a§

The Day Spos Went to Court and
Kicked Ass.

It all started on January 28 of this
year. I allegedly got out of bed, alleg-
edly found out I was late for work,
allegedly threw on some clothes and
altgedly hopped in my trademark VW
Beetle. I was allegedly in a hurry,
because Officer H.N. Ferguson of the
Lexington Police Department alleg-
edly stopped me for allegedly doing 38
miles per hour in an alleged 25 mile per
hour zone. (Understand that I have to
u& the word “alleged” in its various
forms in order to avoid incriminating
myself.)

Anyway, Officer Ferguson alleg-
edly gave me a summons to appear in
General District Court on March

day morning, I planned my strategy. I -
would stroll into the courtroom in a
Corbin Bemsen-like manner and catch
the Lexington justice system com-
pletely off guard by asking confusing
questions in “legal-ese” and generally
acting like an obnoxious Perry Mason.

As I sat in the courtroom, I felt
really confident about my legal de-
fense. Officer Ferguson had made a
seemingly fatal mistake on my sum-
mons by describing Spos as a black-
haired gentleman, which Spos clearly
is not. (I have brown hair.) He also left
the eye-color box blank, thus indicat-
ing that Spos had no eyes at the time of
the alleged incidence of speeding. With
Ferguson’s competence as a police of-
ficer in such a state of question, Spos
ﬁgured he couldn’t possibly lose the
case.

When the judge called my name, I
strode calmly and confidently to the
stand, swore my oath and pleaded not
guilty. Officer Ferguson was there and
he explained that Spos was speeding in
front of City Hall and should be pun-
ished accordingly. He had this look in
his eye like he would derive much
pleasure from seeing Spos strung up
and ﬂayed with a live electric line for
the unforgivable crime of speeding
within city limits.

Then it was my turn. I asked the
judge’s permission to interrogate Offi-
cer Ferguson. Permission was granted,
and Spos proceeded to grill Ferguson
with regard to why he would describe

“Officer Ferguson,” Spos asked,
“How would you describe the color of
my hair?”

“I’d say it’s brown,” he answered. I
had him right where I wanted him.

“It appears that you described my
hair as black in color on this sum-
mons,” I said. I fully expected the
judge to bang his gavel atthis pointand
dismiss all charges. I was wrong.

I grilled Ferguson about the eyes
thing, asking him why he didn’t fill in
the eye-color box on the summons.
After all, my New York State license
clearly states that I have blue eyes.
Several W&L students in the back of
the courtroom started to giggle. At this
point, the judge knew I was reaching
and cut in.

“Would you like me to fill in that
information for you Mr. Hespos?” he
asked.

Thus having my primary defense
completely ripped apart by Judge
Doofus, I had to resort to Plan B. I
noticed that Officer Ferguson had failed
to testify with regard to the calibration
of his radar apparatus, so I immedi-
ately started bitching about it. This
too, failed.

Judging from the giggles I was get-
ting out of the rest of the people in the
courtroom, I was making Ferguson look
like an incompetent biscuithead, but
the big guy on the bench didn ’t seem to
notice. Legally, I wasn’t getting any-
where. The judge cut in again, giving
me a five—minute lecture on the great
technological advances that have been

the past year. He said that they have
devices that can accurately estimate
the speed of a vehicle, even if the police
car is traveling in the opposite direc-
tion (as was the case with Spos’ alleged
violation). I was unimpressed.

Just as I was about to unveil Plan C,
(the famous “Ronald Reagan despera-
tion defense” in which Spos would
claim that no one could possibly re-
member what they were doing last] anu-
ary 28) the judge cut me off again. He
asked me if] was aware that the road I
was allegedly traveling on is desig-
nated as a25 mph zone. Before I could
answer, Judge Doofus asked me if I
had been paying attention to my speed-
ometer. “No,” I responded.

The judge then exercised a well-
known legal technique known as “The
I’in—tired-of-1istening-to-this-defen-
dant—bitch-and-moan technique” and
immediately delivered a guilty verdict.
However, he was nice enough to re-
duce my fine from $65 to $46. He also
plea-bargained me down to a 34 mph
speeding charge, thus keeping points
off of my license. I thanked him po-
litely, even though points acquired in
Virginia do not apply to my New York
license.

After I paid my fine, I walked back
to my car, humming the theme from
“LA. Law” and wondering if it was
too late to pull up my GPA. so that I
could apply to W&L Law. Immedi-
ately dismissing the thought, I hopped
in the SposMobile and took off for
work, knowing that a career in law is

'9,1993, toanswer formyheinous crime.

09 my way to the courtroom on Tues- 110t-

me as black-haired when clearly I was

Student wants U.S. out of Bosnia

To the Editor:

"Let a people believe in government om-
nipotence, and they will be pretty certain to get
up revolutions to achieve impossibi‘Iities.”

. Herbert Spencer, Social Statics.

Five people are dead, two remain missing,
and thousands lay injured in the aftermath of
the most recent terrorist attack on United States
soil, the World Trade Center bombing. In light
of this threat to American sanctity, I offer a
question free of partisan overtones and subjec-
tige or suggestive rhetoric in the following:

When does the safety and security of the
American citizen outweigh the idealistic search
for world political dominance?

In order to explain my opinion on the search
and its possible side effects, I will use the theory
of the FBI, Time, Newsweek, and U.S officials
that the bombing may have been a retaliation
f3r the United States involvement in Bosnia.

The basis for these allegations comes from
the past threats of the Serbs toward Washington
in connection with our enforcement of eco-
nomic blockades and the no—fly zone in Bosnia.
In addition, the leader of the Serb Radical Party,
Vojislav Seselj, personally vowed revenge
against the United States government for de-
claring him a war criminal due to his involve-
ment in the “ethnic cleansing”. Finally, the
March 8 episode of Newsweek explicitly states

. that the America’s “ increasing involvement in
the Bosnian crisis may have made it a target for
Balkan terrorism long before the trade center
bombing.” Specifically, the article spoke of the
CIA killings in Langley, Va. The shooter
claimed that he killed the agents to protest the
mistreatment of fellow Muslims in Bosnia.

Now, the connection with Bosnian involve-
ment is still under investigation, but the fact
remains that the United States may be at risk or,
more specifically, the American people may
lose a portion, or more, of their safety and
security due to a crisis in which America has no
place. In my opinion, the national government
needs to clearly explain its reasons for involv-

Interviews and Photos

y Darran Winslow
Layout _by Jennifer McCann

ing itself in a civil war. We have no real
economic interests in Bosnia nor do we have a
responsibility to protect the peace in every
dissolved country. I do not recall Yugoslavia,
or any European nation for that matter, comin g
to America during the War Between The States.
They did not intervene because they knew that
they had noplace in an internal national struggle.
The people of America are allowing a self-
important national government to exercise its
idealistic humanitarian prowess when it actu-
ally stands to gain nothing for its trouble.

The United States is completely alone in
Bosnia, except for Turkey and the Netherlands,
since the NATO members refuse to offer any
planes or supplies. These countries, allied coun-
tries, see the ineffectiveness of outside involve-
ment in a civil war, but the bleeding hearts in
Washington are blinded by the possibility of
political gain. Ironically, the political gain will
be nominal at best, as even U.S. officials stated
that the airdrops into Bosnia will really be no
salvation. We cannot allow this novice admin-
istration, at least not at this early period, to
become entangled in an international skirmish.
While Michael Stipe of R.E.M. may want the
United States to set up ‘help desks’ in every
troubled nation, the fact is that the United States
does not have the money, the time, or the
responsibility to intervene when it has no real
interests in that nation or area.

In conclusion, I will explicitly answer the
question I offered earlier in this statement. The
safety and security of American citizens should
always come before any idealistic search for
humanitarian utopia. Economic interests and
protection of U.S. citizens should far outweigh
any other endeavor. In the future, I hope that
government learns to limit itself and its
“searches” before the public suffers dearly for
its incompetence.

Paul E. Wright, ’95
Press Secretary and Spokesman, Washington
and Lee College Republicans

made in the realm of traffic radar within

out of reach. Too bad. It’s their loss.

Republican ideals
seem distorted

To the Editor

Year of the Woman? Not at Washington and Lee — or at
least, not according to the College Republicans. Their poster
pondering the question: “Why are Democrats’ daughters so ugly
— they make Republican women look like movie stars” was, to
be honest, funny. Sure, the women shown on the grainy, blurry
photocopies would never make Playmate of the Year.

But if the Republicans had ventured beyond the sidewalk
leading up to the library where they had placed their poster, and
had actually gone inside, they would have seen an impressive
and tliought—provoking display on prominent women —— l992’s
standouts such as Susan Faludi and Dianne Feinstein, and also
female leaders from the past, including Carrie Chapman Catt and
Eleanor Roosevelt. . . .

Beauties? Perhaps not. -But the Democrats with the homely
daughters are teaching us all alesson. The Democrats love their
daughters for characteristics beyond high cheekbones and straight
tumed—up noses. The Democrats value women for their contri-
butions to society — not their ornamental appeal. I’m left
wondering, do Republicans value their daughters? And, if so,

why?

Pamela Patton

Development, Prospect Researcher

TALKBACK

 

,. can-rx~a-~

primate
§BAllGlll'£llS so 

 
   



COLLEGE FlEl7liBllCtltN$ liEEl3llG

Il3ﬁ¥.’i,9iJi.i7.£3i?.?’§.5‘.li.,WK{31K.‘s9l'llC§¥'ri€W


 

Poetry Contest

The National College Poetry
Contest is open to all college and
university students desiring to have
their poetry anthologized. Cash
prizes will be awarded to the top
five poems. The deadline is March
31. For contest rules, send a self-
addressed, stamped envelope to:
International Publications, P.O. Box
44044-L, Los Angeles, CA 90044.

Internships

For information on various sum-
mer internship opportunities please
contact Professor Connelly in the
C-School room 108, or at463—8627.

Republicans

There will be a College Republi-
cans meeting Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.
in the Mock Con office. The topic
of the evening’ s debate will be “Ter-
rorism and Methods to Deal with Its
Increase.”

Elections

Petitions for Executive Commit-
tee class representatives and class
officers are due March 15. Elec-
tions will be March 22.

Lost

Lost - small brown leather key
pouch made by Mark Cross. If
found please call Stefanie at 463-
6586. There is a reward.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum will host a dis»?

cussion on “Women’s-Health for a” -'

Lifetime,” led by Dr. Jane Horton
on Sunday at 6 p.m. in the Women’s
Center. Topics will include: nutri-
tion, exercise, weight control, smok-
ing, cholesterol, calcium and
osteoperosis, breast cancer, repro-
ductive health issues, etc. Every-
one is welcome.

Write and Rub

A Turkish Bath invloves much
rubbing and sweating. It’s nice and
it breaks down decorum. Writing to
the Phi only involves sweating.
You’ll have to provide your own
rubbing.

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar

AIDS

The W&L chapter of the Na-
tional Lawyers’ Guild is sponsor-
ingan AIDS symposium on April 1.
The event will be held from 2-6
pm. in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall, and will feature a panel
discussion followed by a question
and answer session with audience
members. All members of the W&L
community interested in the legal
and social ramifications of the dis-
ease are encouraged to attend.

Preston Society

The Preston Society is a Com-
munity service group that is dedi-
cated to promoting better relations
between W&L and VMI. The soci-
ety is seeking new student mem-
bers to help us in promoting our
cause. We assemble at 7 p.m. on
Wednesday nights in front of Lee
Chapel and then walk to VMI to
hold our meetings. If you are inter-
ested, please come to our next meet-
ing, or call Tom Hespos at 464-
5511. All memberspof the W&L/
VMI community are welcome.

Film Society

The ‘W&L Film Society is
pleased to announce the presenta-
tion of “Toto Le Heros” at 8:05 p.m.
on Friday and Saturday in the Trou-
badour Cinema, at the corner of
Main and Henry streets. As always,
there is no charge for admission,
and everyone is welcome to attend.

Retreat

There will be a retreat at Skylark
for Washington and Lee women on
March 19 and 20. For more infor-
mation call;464--5,681. .

ill

Pub Board

The W&L Publications Board
will meet at 7 p.m. Sunday in room
114 of the University Center. At-
tendance is mandatory.

Vote

Class elections and a constitu-
tional referendum will be held
March 22. All students, even se-
niors and third—year law students
may vote in the referendum.

, What does Washington and Lee’s fraternity system
mean to you?

 

 

 

Richard Weaver, ’96, Vero Beach,
Fla. —- “Beer, really great beer like
Keystone and Keystone Light.”

Alex Cross, ’95, Phoenix, Md. —

AnnaStarling,’96,Raleigh,N.C.— Ian Falk, ’95, Flemington, NJ. and Drew Denbo, ’95, San Francisco, _
“Plenty of parking.”

“On the weekends it allows me to Calif.-— “Chicks.”
socialize with true southern gentle-
men.”

Jay Didier, ’96, Inverness, Ill. _— “It'
provides me with the opportunity to
study the custodial arts.”

 

A symphony of strings to perform at Lenfest

oloists, Soviets, strings

By Iﬁusr/t TAURINS
Phi Staff Writer

When the orchestra for this
Saturday ’s Concert Guild performance
couldn’t make it, the orchestra man-
ager asked if Washington and Lee
would accept a different group.

“The European Community Cham-
ber Orchestra had visa trouble, so they
couldn’t come, ” said Professor Timo-
thy Gaylard, head of the Concert Guild.
“They have the same manager as the
Soloists of Montpellier—lvloscow, so

 

they’re sending them instead.”

Gaylard says the groups are of equal
quality.

The Soloists, an ensemble founded
in 1986, is made up of 20 Russian
string players.

While their repertoire is tra-
ditional, their appearance is
unique because most of
the members stand dur-
ing performances. ‘.—\-— ~ — 

Last season, the So- \__
loists performed in
Great Britain, France, .-/ll
Italy, Switzerland, Ger-
many, Japan, Australia,
Mexico and Greece.

By agreement with the
city of Montpellier, the orches-
tra performs in and around the city
each year.

Cellist Julian Lloyd Webber will
solo with the Montpellier—Moscow
group on Saturday.

Lloyd Webber comes from a musi-
cal farnily—his brother, Andrew Lloyd
Webber, composed “Evita” and “Cats.”

His father, William Lloyd Webber,

Cellist Julian Lloyd Webber on
the left and Soloists of
Montpellier—Moscow below.

Publicity Photos

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom
combination. Private Bath. 10-month
lease. Singles only. Call 463-3835

  
 
    
 
 

   
  

is a composer and professor at The
Royal College of Music.

Julian Lloyd Webber won a schol-
arship to the Royal College of Music
when he was sixteen.

The following year, composer Sir
Arthur Bliss asked him to per-
form Bliss’s own Cello
Concerto at the Queen
Elizabeth Hall in Lon-
- -~ --—/ don,markingthebegin-
/ ning of Lloyd
Webber’s intemational
career.
 Lloyd Webber has
\ released over 30 com-
\l\\x pact discs.

He is known for playing
modern works in addition to
standard cello repertoire. Soon to be
released on the Philips label is a disc of
Tchaikowsky’ s Rococo Variations and
his Nocturne for Cello and Orchestra,
Miaskovsl-;y’s Cello Concerto and
Dmitri Shostakovich’s Cello Solo.

The Soloists of Montpellier—Mos—
cow with Julian Lloyd Webber will
perform Mozart’s “Divertimento” in F
major, K. 138, Hadyn’s Cello Con-
certo No. 1 in C major, Barber’s “Ada-
gio for Strings,” and Tchaikowsky’s
“Serenade for Strings” in C major.

The concert will begin at 8 p.m.
Saturday in the Lenfest Center.

A reception will follow the concert.

 

Florida SPRING BREAK
7 nights Beachfront
A $139 - 159
Reserve rooms NOW
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

A in 1; Is;  of S O L; .1‘) ‘R iii '1‘ l R 1-: .\t I-1 N '1‘

l.\'\'lCS'l‘l.\'(}

UNFORTUNATELY, THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

 

© I 993 Téachtrr Insurance and /l nnuily Axrorthlihn/C0//(yr Retire/run/‘ Eqluiltlt-I Funa-

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes.They
don’t take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAS.
SRAS not only ease your current tax-
hite, they offer a remarkably easy way
tobuild retirement income-especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security beneﬁts may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on

your SRA are tax~deferred as well, the

system.

happy returns.

Beneﬁt nawfmm tax de_f'ev-ml. Call our SKA botline 1 800-8424 733, wt. 8016.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality of life.

What else makes SRAS so special?
A range of allocation choices—fr'om the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity—-all backed

by the nation's number one retirement

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAS can help you enjoy many

FEATURE S

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1 1 , 1993

ii Py Photo

The Reduced. Shakespeare Company

To be . . . ornot to be’

Actors perform 15-minute ‘Ham

From a Lenfest Center Press Release

ARNING - This show is a high-speed roller

coaster—type condensation of all

Shakespeare's plays and is not recommended

for people with heart ailments, inner ear dis-

orders and/or people inclined to motion sick-
ness. The Reduced Shakespeare Company cannot be held
responsible for expectant mothers.

With this warning we are introduced to the Reduced
Shakespeare Company, which will present “The Complete
Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged)” at the Lenfest
Center. on Tuesday and Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Keller
Theatre.

The RSC presents 37 Shakespeare plays and 2,154
sonnets in just under two hours.

The performance has been described as “Shakespeare
written by the Reader’s Digest, acted by Monty Python and
performed at the speed of the minute waltz.”

The troupe combines elements of classic theatre, left
wing literary analysis, punk rock sensibilities and a few
World Wrestling Federation body slams.

Adam Long, Reed Martin and Jess Borgeson comprise

let’ in an abridged repertoire

the RSC. .

These gentlemen came together in the San Francisco Bay
Area in the early 1980s and began with busking — street
performing — for spare change on the weekends.

They eventually developed a 15 -minute version of “Ham-
let” in 1981.

After performances at a succession of festivals and
Renaissance fairs, the troupe created its “Complete Works,
(Abridged)” for the Edinborough Festival in 1987.

Acclaim, or perhaps notoriety, from the Edinborough I
appearance sparked interest in the group.

The RSC has performed across America, in Canada,
England, Scotland, Wales and for extendedruns in Dublin
and Melbourne.

Individual tickets for the Lenfest Series performances.
are on sale at the Lenfest Center box office.

The box office is open from noon to 4 p.m., Monday
through Friday and two hours prior to any performance.

Tickets for the performance cost $10 for adults, $7 for
senior citizens and non-W&L students and $3 for W&L
students, faculty and staff.

The RSC performances are made possible in part by the
support of the Washington and Lee Class of ’64 Endowment‘
for the Arts.

 

  

 

' e Ring-tum Phi, March 1 1, 1993

 

  

 
 

Another legend says that on March
17, St. Patrick removed the cold stone

    
 

Norfolk featuring live Irish music and
dancing.

IIPIEATURES

 

    

 

required, according to Brian Shaw, the public relations chairman of

the convention.

u’re not the

ne who’s car
is this

annuals»
' ugvwui uvmin.
.;- y..s.mum.- em...

«nah.

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller:
a full Macintosh line for all your needs.

Wmg

n1
0 zilot of

  ' Colonnade Crossword
1 Analyze a
SBDIBFICB
3 grsf gp.
. ‘* wiss ei
‘Ioc{ay's5 t. ‘.Patrick's ii‘. iggtggghgﬁiciai
_ f h _ m h d 16 Shakespeare's
B JEANNE BRIGGS andMATr DILLARD mm‘ eS“.eam’meamng at “““?e "sprite"
y Phi Sm“ wmers the worn side of the stonelup, ending   S3‘: 533:?’
5 _ the cold weather and allowing farmers / 20 period of time
he history of Patrick, to begin planting their crops. . 21 Got up
Ireland’s patron saint, is The tradition of wearing green on \\\\ /‘ 22 State °‘ °'‘5
somewhat obscured by leg— St. Patrick’s Day comes from another \\ _ 23 g°srg',f;'y
end. He was born late in the legend, which says that St. Patrick’s ,-- ’ ‘$5 25 Unpleasant
founhcenttlryinpresentday followers were put in a house made of if \ sound
Wales, England. He was baptized dry wood, while aProtestant’s follow— /' gg gggfdegttanee
. . . . . grain

Christian, but his early life was charac- ers were put in a house of green wood, / 29 Depot abbr,

terized by worldliness and debauch- and both houses were burned. The A _ 32 Cleans teeth

ery. Protestants, according to legend, were :5; Fer“? SP3“

Atage 16,Patrick wastaken captive all burned to death, but St. Patrick’s 38 g;:"p,ef_

by Irish marauders and pirates along followers were not harmed, and wore 39 Free time

with hundreds of young men and green on St. Patrick’s Day from that 43 F’er_S0n 0'

women from the region in which he time on. 46 g;’r'|?y“° ©‘,",§’?,,I_,',",‘,’S"',;‘§,s"',‘,",;‘,‘,‘§,5°""°°‘- ‘"° 03/11/93

‘ lived. All of them were sold as slaves e identification of the shamrock 47 Reugious my Last Week's Answers:
in Ireland. with St. Patrick evolved because he 48 — Coty _ 6 Confronts
During his six years as a slave in used the three-leaf plant to demon— ‘;51’ﬁ.a":;)°PP';‘9n gig“ '”?sr 9

Ireland, Patrick experienced his spiri— strate the Catholic doctrine of the Trin- 55 G933, ,§;'," a' p,a,',‘;° 5 ° 39

tual awakening. In a drearri, God told ity, which says that God is the Father, 57 Thorny flowers 9 Washing

him how to escape from captivity. the Son and the Holy Ghost. 59 M°t>“°'5 State? "13 mdians _

. Following the instructions, he returned The Irish expression “drowning the 60 haﬂtzgré 0, We 1 w::h°s' '" 3
safely home to England. shamrock” means to go drinking in poetry 12 Tennis barriers
_ Upon his retum to England as a honor of St. Patrick’s Day. It was the 61 Musical, 13 Otherwise

more spiritual man, Patrick felt a call— only day during Lent when Irish Catho— 63 g:)‘fg”°"°“5 18 gf,';$°a°°'

irig to go back to Ireland and share his lies were allowed to eat and drink as 54 Japanese 24 Facilitates

religious beliefs with the Irish pagans. much as they wanted, and the tradition money , 26 B6 in debt

By the time of his death late in the ﬁfth of drowning the shamrock has existed :2 'aZ%?'§'r°§°;?.?s 3(1) 83?’:

century, he had much success in con— for over 100 years. 57 F351 piane p 32 “Spied

' vening the Irish,and Ireland was on the St. Patrick’s Day is celebrated with » 68 Strong point 33 in _—— or _
path to Christianity. much more excitement in the United DOWN 32 ggggdago being
After leading one of the most suc- States by Irish—Arr_iencaris than in Ire— , Gena,” horse appraises 43 Gm 53 Bias

cessful missionary lives in history, land. In Ireland, the holiday is a reli— 2 Love, Italian 40 Fabled animal 44 Pry bar 54 Demi--—

Patrick diedon March 17, 461. Today, gious day of church ceremonies, and 3 lg:/rlteainin to 41 Eétgfeball 45 Rfglfgme 22 Pl°§r:e'‘"d 0%?

he is known as the father and founder the Irish donotcustomarily drink green kidneys 9 42 occupy me 50 am who qumes 58 Unclosesv ,0

Of the  Of Ireland. beer OT march III parades. BUI In l.hC 4 Tennis term complete authority poets

‘ The Irish have many legends sur- States, it is a much more festive occa» 5 Trips t0|' tasks attention 52 Cate Patron 52 Uncle: SP-

rounding their patron saint, most of sion. Every year, one of the biggest A.._.

which deal with his travels in Ireland annual parades held in New York City

after his return. The most common is is on March 17, with as many as 125,000 I

the story of how he drove the snakes people marching down the two-mile

out of Ireland, although most histori- parade route. Held since 1762, the ,   n   m e  i
ans agree that there were no snakes in parade usually lasts six hours and at- _ _ i

0 Imlmd anhe time, tracts more man one miuion spew- 50 years _ago — The Executive Committee proposes an amend— 
According to16th century historian tors. I ment to revise elections and change representation. Only three ,
Andrew Boorde, the “snakes” were This year locally, the St. Patrick’s officers lthe president, vice-president and secretary of the student 
stones that had the shape and form of Day Rock Around the Block Parade body) will be chosen at elections. Other positions will be appointed. 3
the animals. The Irish people claimed will be held in Roanoke on March 17. 3 _ 1 . 5 
these rocks were snakes, but they had It is a participatory parade where ev- i Five years ago — Although W&L s Mock Convention is only two 
been turned to stone by the power of eryone is invited to join in. There is l weeks away, 400-500 student delegates are still needed. There are ;
| Godacting through St.Patrick. also a St. Patrick’s Day celebration in 1 (WY 1:200 delegates ’eQ'5Y9Ied 0U't 0f the 1.5004700 that ale 1
l

    

7'/76 7zeu'/lpple i
/llacmtosb M [I].

7799 m:u‘Apple

Macintosh Color Classic. Mczcmlosla Cmms 610.

for even more power, the Macintosh Centiis” 610. See these new computers
today at your Apple Campus Reseller. Where you’ll get special student pricing,

Right now, your Apple Campus Reseller has the most affordable new
line of full-featured Maciritoslf oomputers ever. Theie’s the Apple” Macintosh
Color Classic”— a solid performer at a remarkable price. The Macintosh aswell as service during college?‘ And experience the power of Macintosh. ’
LC III, which runs 50% faster than its top-selling predecessor, the LC 11. And, The power more college students choose. The power to be your best? 

. I For further information visit the Computer Center in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844

‘.\'er1'i'ce ivdlrlilrlhle oillrfrvln A/We (km:/Iu.i' k¢’.\!‘”(’l'.\‘ lrbid m1'A/1/tieAulb0ri:ctl.\2'rrice I’mrizIvi.\‘. ©/99} A/I/I/t’ (.0111/iii/mt Ir/ti All I'.fL'/J/.\' ."£’.\'t'l'l‘(‘(/ xl/l/I/1’. //Jt‘ . l/l/‘It’ /iiuii. .lIrIt'IIi/iii‘/.i 1i‘lI(/ "'/lit‘ /IlIlI'l'l' In /)1’ l'IHIl' bu‘/" rIl‘(‘ Ii1L'I.\'/i'i'i'z/ /l'zI(/L‘I}.'1ll'4’.\‘ 12/ :1/I/I/t’ (.'zim,'w/oi’ //IL‘ lliiriii/ri\'l.i (It'll/I'I.\' !.i' (l /l'(I(/t'IlI([l'l’ 0/ xl/I/I/t‘ (hm/iiiloiz /Ill’ (,'lii.\'iit’ 13‘ ii l'lf-’,‘d\'/('l‘l’// /I'll!/t’Ill1Il'4’ lIt't‘ll.\t’i/ /I‘ I/1]‘/t‘ ( ‘vIii_/ii/li'i. M:

L

 

 

These are the proposed constitutional amendments
that will goto a referendum beginning on March 22. The
Executive Committee has endorsed the amendments,
but the EC does not necessarily endorse the ration-
ales. The rationales are those presented to the EC this
winter, and several are drawn from the Constitutional
Revisions Committee report to the EC in May, 1 990. The
full text of these proposals and rationales is available
at the EC and Fling-tum Phi offices for review. Half the
student body must vote in the referendum to validate
it, so every vote will count. All students may vote.

STYLE
PURPOSE: To correct the gram-

mar and style of the Constitution and ~

make it stylistically consistent.

LANGUAGE:

On all references, change:

{T he Ring-tum Phi [capitalize first
word]

Vice-President [delete hyphen]

[for example,] $1,010 [or] $10,010
[add commas where missing]

SUCCESSION OF OFFICERS-

ELECT

PURPOSE: To ensure proper suc-
cession of President—Elect, Vice Presi-
dent—Elect, or the Secretary-Elect of
the Student Body, and establish the
procedures that should be followed in
the event that one of the above defined
officers—elect leaves the University
prior to taking office.

LANGUAGE:

Add to Article III, Duties of Offic-
ers, D, a new section 43:

3. In the event that the Student Body
President-Elect, Vice President-Elect,
or Secretary—Elect, leaves the Univer-
sity prior to officially taking office as
defined by Article XI, Section D, 3,
and both the Undergraduate and Law
School have at least ten days of class
session remaining, then the Executive
Committee shall, pursuant to Article
V, Section Fand Article XI, Section C,
hold a special election in order to fill
the vacated position. If a Special Elec-
tion as defined above cannot be held in
a reasonable manner, then Article III,
Section D, 1-2 will control the succes-
sion of Student Body Officers—Elect.

RATIONALE: It is the belief of
the Constitutional Revisions Commit-
tee that in order to avoid the Constitu-
tional crisis faced in the spring term of
1989, that the preceding provision is

I required. It is the intent of the drafters

of this clause that under no .circum-
stances should the three Student Body
Officers—Elect be replaced by a special
election without full participation by
both the undergraduate and law stu-
dentbodies. The above provides a com-
promise solution that if sufficient time
remains in both the undergraduate and
Law School sessions of the University
a special election could be held by the
Executive Committee, but in the event
that at least ten days of classes do not
remain, the normal course of succes-
sion would follow.
VOTING REGULATIONS
BOARD

PURPOSE: To give Constitutional
sanction to the Voting Regulations
Board.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion D, to read:

D. It shall establish a Voting Regu-
lations Board to superintend Student
Body elections and shalt decide the
validity of the same in case of a contest.

RATIONALE: One of the Execu-
tive Committee’s wisest decisions was
the establishment of the Voting Regu-
lation's Board to supervise elections.
The absence of such a supervisory board
in the Constitution is striking and dis-

appointing. As the Constitution reads

now, incumbent Executive Committee
members may makejudgments regard-
ing the eligibility of challenging candi-
dates. This change will eliminate that

danger.

MAINTAINING QUORUM
AND FILLING VACANCIES
PURPOSE: To ensure student rep-

resentation by election in all cases while
guaranteeing that the Executive Com-
mittee maintains a working quorum at
all times.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion F, to read:

F. It shall have the power to fill
vacancies occurring in Student Body
offices and all positions of honor. In
such-easesra Elective oﬂices will be
filled by election. The notice eal-Iirrgfor
applications forsuch vacancyies must
be shall be published ten days before
the election as provided for in Article
111, Section C, 6.

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion H, to read:

H. It shall remove any of its mem-
bers for continual non—attendance and
appoint-his and see to the installation
of a successor as provided for in Sec-
tion F of this Article.

Add to Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, a new
Section, to be called Section J, reading:

I. Any quorum requirements that
result from the removal of officers, in
addition to the timing of elections for
such vacancies, shall be filled accord-
ing to the guidelines of Article V, Sec-
tion I, Sub—sections 1,2, and 3.Tempo-
rary appointments may be made in the
event that Sub-section 4 is required.

Re—name Article V, Sections K
through P.

RATIONALE: It is the belief of
the Constitutional Revisions Commit-
tee that the self-appointrnent power of
the Executive Committee is one that
could be misused and is adverse to
elective student representation. Elec-
tions are the first and most desirable
option. However, quorum needs and
the 10-day rules of elections may tie
the Executive Committee’s hands. To
avoid this, the above proposes the use
of the spring term replacement rules
for temporary appointments caused by
removal. This solution leaves the Ex-
ecutive Committee at quorum strength
at all times while assuring the Student
Body that every effort is made to have
vacancies filled by officials selected
by the Student Body. ,

THE EC-PUB BOARD RELA-

TIONSHIP

PURPOSE: To reinforce Publica-
tions Board autonomy and bring the
Constitution and the Publications Board
constitution into agreement.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, Sec-
tion G, to read:

G. It shall have appellate jurisdic-
tion of the Publications Board and may
after notice and hearing, and upon two-
thirds vote of the entire Committee at
two successive meetings, reverse any
order of the Board, provided that the
first vote occur within three academic
weeks of the Board order in question.

Change Article IX, Student Activi-
ties and Fees, Section B, 4 to read:

4. All net profits of publications
accredited by the Publications Board
shall revert to the Publications Board

Cape Cod House for Rent - One or
Two Year Lease. Located on Rt. 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,
dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

 

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard redlt Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the worId...Visa® and MasterCard@
credit mrds..“ln your mme.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!’ and Mair.-rCard0 the credit cards you
deserve and need Ior— ID-BOOKS—DI-ZPARTMENT
STORES-—TUITlON— ENTERTAINM ENT-
EMERGENCY (MSH-—TICKE'IS-—RESTAURAN'IS——
HO,TELS—MOTEI.S——GAS-CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

Approval absolutely guaranteed so
MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1 1, 1993

STUDENT BODY NOTICE

This is dense, but it’s important’

Reserve Fund, which shall be at least
$23500 $3,000.

Change Article IX, Student Activi-
ties and Fees, Section C, 2, c to read:

c. The Treasurer shall keep in a
separate account a fund of a minimum
of $27500 $3,000 to be known as the
Publications Board Reserve, for use
for publication purposes only, and sub-
ject to disbursement only upon request
of the Publications Boardand-approvai
 The Vice Presi-
dent shall have access to Board ac-
count statements from the Business
Oﬂice.

RATIONALE: The threat of gov-
ernment intervention prevents the Pub-
lications Board from functioning as it
should. Most matters brought to the
Board are referred by member publica-
tions, but there is a reluctance to refer
an issue with the possibility that the
Executive Committee could overrule a
Board order, even an endorsement of
an editor’s decision. There could arise
a situation, however, in which the Ex-
ecutive Committee would be justified
in overruling the Board, especially
given that the committee has a vested
interest in The Calyx (a mandatory
subscription). The Constitution seeks a
compromise, demanding consecutive
votes of the entire Executive Commit-
tee to overrule, but the compromise
lacks any sort of “statute of limita-
tions.” That is the purpose of the first
change above. All Board business, even
behind closed doors, is open to a repre-
sentative of the Executive Committee,
who may promptly report any potential
problems to the Executive Committee.
Three weeks should be sufficient time
for the Executive Committee to take
contrary action. Even if the Board de-
cision is made right after a regular
Executive Committee meeting, there
would still be time to post notice and
have a hearing a week later, and for the
committee to take its first vote a week
after the hearing, to avoid hot-headed
responses. The language regarding the
academic calendar ensures that the
Executive Committee will have time to
act even if the Board decision occurs
prior to a break.

The second change resolves a con-
flict between the Constitution and the
Publications Board constitution which
has been outstanding for three years.
The Publications Board constitution
calls for a $4,000 minimum to the
Reserve Fund, while the Constitution
calls for only $2,500, $3,000 is a rea-

sonable compromise, and the Publica-

tions Board has agreed to amend its
constitution if this change passes Stu-
dent Body referendum.

The third change enhances Publica-
tions Board autonomy by eliminating
the mandate that the Student Body Vice
President approve all Board expendi-
tures. This is a cumbersome procedure
which is not currently observed, thus
the change would bring the Constitu-
tion in line with current practice. The
nevi/"language guarantees that the Ex-
ecutive Committee would still oversee
all Board expenditures, to guard against
misuse.

NOTE: The Constitution as it stands
mandates aPublications Board Reserve
Fund which, the text implies, exists on
the same plane as the Central Student
Body Fund; i.e., at the end of each
academic year, the Publications Board
Reserve Fund is not supposed to revert
back to the Central Student Body Fund,
and the Executive Committee is not
supposed to remove money from the
Publications Board Reserve Fund.
Current policy should be amended so
that these procedures are observed.

STUDENT CONDUCT COM-
MITTEE

PURPOSE: To bring the Constitu-
tion in line with current Student Con-
duct Committee procedures developed
by faculty and students in 1992.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Section 0 to read:

0. By the direction of the faculty it

shall be the duty of the Executive Com-
mittee to supervise the election of stu-
dents to the Student Conduct Commit-
tee  ‘ ‘ '
wi-set

RATIONALE: The clause shown
stricken here suggests that when the
Constitution was first enacted, the re-
lationship between the Student Con-
duct Committee, the faculty and the
Executive Committee was as yet un-
certain. Now that relationship has been
better defined, and that clause is super-
ﬂuous.

NOTE: The addition of Student
Conduct Committee President to the
Student Body Officer elections in Ar-
ticle XI comes under the subject of
Student Conduct Committee, but the
relevant proposal is included here un-
der the subject of Elections.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

PURPOSE: To define Executive
Session and to state when the Excel}
tive Committee has the option to meet
in Executive Session.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article V, Section P to read:

P. 
Executive Session is deﬁned as a ses-
sion of the Executive Committee that is
closed to the public. People who are
not presently serving on the Executive
Committee can be present only at the
express invitation of the Executive
Committee.

Add to Article V, a new Section Q:

Q. The Executive Committee may,
on a vote of two-thirds of a present
quorum, decide to enter into Executive
Session only in cases involving Honor
Investigations, Honor Hearings, Inter-
views for Committee Appointments,
Deliberations on Awards and Commit-
tee Appointments, Disciplinary Hear-
ings involvingcommittee members and
officers, and cases involving breach of
confidentiality as described in the White
Book. The Executive Committee must,
after making committee appointments
in Executive Session, post the voting
record on said appointments. In the
event that the Executive Committee
decides to discipline a Committee-ap-
pointed chairman or member, the Ex-
ecutive Committee, in a regularly
scheduled committee meeting, shall
fully describe all facts and circum-
stances surrounding the disposition of
the matter.

Add to Article V, a new section R:

R. The Executive Committee, when
involved with Honor Investigations and
Honor Hearings, shall two weeks after
the final meeting concerning that par-
ticular case post in public areas a state-
ment that an Executive Session was
held. No other information should be
provided unless deemed appropriate
by the Executive Committee.

RATIONALE: (Text from the
Constitutional Revisions Committee:)
Executive session as stated in the con-
stitution is only to be used for handling
honor violation situations. All other
situations including committee inter-
views are to be open: any person wish-
ing to attend the meeting may do so,
without permission from the Execu-
tive Committee. The door is to be
opened at all times and a Ring-tum Phi
reporter is allowed to attend.

Past and present Executive Com-
mittees have chosen to disregard the
constitution on this issue. Committee
members state that interviews are not
held in Executive Session, but rather
behind “closed doors.” Much of the
uproar against the Executive Commit-
tee over Executive Session involved a
meeting during the fall, 1989 when
Alex Hitz presented an SAB report on
Fancy Dress. He asked for an Execu-
tive Session and was granted the re-
quest. He reasoned that if the budget
for that year’s Fancy Dress were re-
vealed, attendance at the ball would
suffer, because SAB was spending ap-
proximately $20,000 less than the pre-

GAMES, HOBBIES,

CRAFTS PLUS. INC.

Open Monday through Saturda 10 to 5
31 S. Main St., Lexington 46 -3355

& CRAFT SUPPLIES

Spring

CANCUN, NASSAU

from $299

Organize a small group
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

Break:

for FREE trip

   
  
   
  

No credit
No security deposit!

if
:——Qu——QQ—Q:Qnu———Q$Q——

STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PI_ANTATION.FL 3331

vious year.

The constitution states clearly the
only situation when an Executive Ses-
sion can be invoked. The Executive
Committee though has seen fit to
change the rules, and the present guide-
lines have become irrelevant. The Ex-
ecutive Committee up to this point has
been invoking Executive Session by a
simple majority vote. This is unconsti-
tutional.

Executive Session will constitute a
private meeting of the Executive Com-
mittee. Only persons directly involved
in the proceedings are allowed in the
room. The Executive Committee is
given the authority to invite people
who are not serving on the Executive
Committee to be present during this
session. The time and date of the meet-
ing are to be undisclosed until two
weeks after the final meeting involving
the case. At the time that the individual
under investigation is present in the
Executive Committee room, that per-
son must approve all persons who are
asked by the Executive Committee to
attend the meeting.

Asacommittee we must setspecific
guidelines to when an Executive Ses-
sion can be called. The Constitutional
Revisions Committee considers the
right of confidentiality of individuals,
other than Executive Committee mem-
bers, to be the foremost consideration
in addressing the question of Execu-
tive Session. If confidentiality is not an
issue in a particular hearing, then this
committee feels that that particular ses-
sion should be open to all individuals
who wish to attend.

SUBSCRIPTIONS
TO PUBLICATIONS

PURPOSE: To give the Executive
Committee negotiating power in its
funding of student publications.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article IX, Student Activi-
ties and Fees, Section A to read:

A. With the approval of the Board
of Trustees, an activity fee which shall
be set by the Executive Committee by
a two-thirds vote of those present, shall
be payable at the time of registration
and will cover the current school year.
The Activities Fee shall entitle the payer
to yearly subscriptions to tThe Ring-
tum Phi, and The Calyx to be negoti-
ated by the Executive Committee with
the respective publications; to admis-
sion to all Glee Club concerts, and all
debating meets; and to all other func-
tions, publications, and activities as the
Executive Committee may announce.

RATIONALE: The current sys-
tem binds the Executive Committee to
purchase an annual subscription to The
Ring-tum Phi and Calyx at any rate the
editors might set.For the Executive
Committee and publications to main-
tain a proper business relationship, the
Executive Committee must be free to
cancel a student subscription, turn down
a subscription, or negotiate the price of
a subscription.

ELECTIONS AND THE SCC
PRESIDENT

PURPOSE: To revise the require-
ments for election scheduling to give
the Executive Committee greater ﬂex-
ibility, and to ensure that elections are
timed in such a way as to maximize
participation.

LANGUAGE:

Change Article XI, Elections, Sec-
tion A, 1 to read:

1. '
as-y-1-of-each-year,-a A petition with the
signatures of 150 students shall be re-
quired from every candidate for Presi-
dent, Vice President, and Secretary of
the Student Body and for Chairman of
the Student Conduct Committee. The
election shall be held on the-tenth Mon-
day and the ninoff election on theThurs-

day of that-week the same week, to be
designated by the Executive C 0mmit-
tee under Article XI, Section D, 4.

Change Article X], Elections, Sec-
tion B, 1 to read:

1.

tl-anu-ary-I-oi"-eae-h-year,-a A petition
with the signatures of 50 students shﬁl
be required from every candidate for
Executive Committee and Class Offi-
cer. The election shall be held on the
Monday  CCk and the
runoff election on t-he-Thursday of that
week the same week, to be designated
by the Executive Committee under /3‘-
ticle XI, Section D, 4.

Add to Article XI, Elections, Sec-
tion B, a new section 3:

3. Petitions from Executive Com-
mittee and Class Officer candidates
required by Sub-section 1 in this Sec-
tion B must be due at least one we k
after the election of Student Body f-
ficers is complete.

Change Article XI, Section D, 4 to
read:

4. In January of each year, i-f-t:he

‘ F . I. l . 3
strtutien the Executive Committee shall,
by two-thirds vote, set the dates for
winter elections. Notice of such-change
the election dates shall be '
 published in
every The Ring-tum Phi issued-during
 four consecutive
issues prior to the date petitions are
due.

RATIONALE: Every Executive
Committee at least for the last four
years has invoked the two-thirds-v3te
loophole in scheduling class elections,

Clearly, then, the Constitution's sched—A ’

uling scheme is too restrictive.

The Constitutional Revisions Com-
mittee also addressed this issue. Then-
Executive Committee President
Willard Dumas asked the commitke
for more ﬂexibility in election sched-
uling as his number-two priority in
revisions (number one was officer—elect
succession).

The changes outlined give the Ex-
ecutive Committee complete flexibil-
ity in scheduling elections around Ole
undergraduates’ February break and
winter exams, and around the law stu-
dents’ break and exams. The additional
sub-section guarantees that scheduling
flexibility cannot be misused to put
Class Officer Elections before Student
Body Officer elections. Finally, iie
flexible schedule allows that the two-
thirds-vote loophole can be removed,
since it provides an Executive Com-
mittee majority of incumbent candi-
dates a dangerous and unnecessary
power. The final statement regarding
The Ring-tum Phi ensures adequate
and timely notice to the Student Body
no matter when elections are held.

NOTE: The language adding the
Student Conduct Committee President
to the Student Body Officer elections
was included in the 1992-93 Hand-
book, though it never went to stud nt
referendum, and thus was never a e-
gitimate constitutional revision.

Let’s have
Ci constitution
we can work with‘.

VOTE
YES _

in the referendum
beginning
March 22.

LLENT

       
       
   

Free Details: SASE to

EXTRA INCOME NOW!

I ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week 9 

International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn. New York 11230

 

 I want VISAG/MASTERCARDQ Credit

Cards. Enclosed Ilnd 85 which is 100% refundable if not

approved Immediately.

NAME

ADDRESS
CITY
PHONE
SIGNATURE

 
 

NOT!-1 Mastercnrd is a Iqnstered tndernark d’ Nhstedhrd International Inc
Visa is a registered tndermrlt oI’VISA USA. Inc. and VISA lnkrmdonal

100°/o GUARANTEED!

Services Assoeialon.

STATE _. ZIP
S.S.”

 

I I
ciudrotronics

AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR STEREO
DENON sow
ADCOM ALPINE '
TOSHIBA MARANT2
KEF cwo
aosron osrmmve
xupscu BAZOOKA

’ SPEAKER TRADE UP PROGRAM

’ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

' CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
' IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER ‘
' WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

‘ MASTER CARD / VISA / DISCOVER

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden 8: Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1993

    Hams Teeter

 

MEANS iowiiiiciis

Phi to honor Mollenhoff

REDUCED PRIC _
40 - 50 COUNT

 

O

L'i.s.i>.A. CHOICE
JUMBO PACK

    
 

LB.

PAGE 7

El MOLLENHOFF, from pae 1

unprepared on a regular basis soon came to empathize with
the numerous politicians who had been on the business end
of his earthy bellow.

One of Mollenhoff’s golden rules in the classroom was
that only students physically larger than him were allowed
to wear hats. He liked to point out that in 15 years of
teaching, only one student met the qualifications.

Mollenhoff believed in the virtue of hard work. He took
pride in the fact that after graduating from college, he went
to law school and played two sports there, all while working
40-hour weeks for the Des Moines Register. Keeping in the
spirit of hard work, he gave extensive three—hour exams and
required his students to have writing assignments prepared
for each class period.

However, Mollenhoff was able to retain an understand-
ing of the pressures on the undergradaute student, and all but
the most ﬂagrant abuses of his good faith in his students

Clinton plans to

could be forgiven by what he called the “milk of human
kindness,” which always seemed to flow from his heart
when he calculated grades.

A classic Mollenhoff pose was one of him reclining in a
chair in his office, discussing a problem in government over
the phone with a U.S. senator or other prominent political
figure. He kept scrapbooks filled with newspaper clippings
about issues he was working on, and despite his size it
appeared at times that he was going to be buried under the
avalanche of information.

Mollenhoff’s contributions to student growth at Wash-
ington and Lee did not stop at the doors of Reid Hall. Many
non-majors who would otherwise have never even set foot
in thejoumal ism department enrolled in his classes to see for
themselves what a Mollenhoff class was like.

“The Ring-tum Phi wanted to honor the memory of an
outstanding contributor to our community and to journalism
at Washington and Lee,” Phi Executive Editor Cathryn
Lopiccolo said. “Professor Mollenhoff left a lasting impres-
sion on everyone who met him.”

reform loans

 

CALIFORNIA STAR
RUBY RED
GRAPEFRUTT

5 LB. BAG 2 2

 

  
    
   

  

p‘ 0’. .... 
«.3

 

REGISTER TO WIN IN
HARRIS TEETERS

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITER
.9 9
  PEPSI
A
v

ANGEL SOFT- 157.5 50. FT.

BATH
TISSUE ........ ..4 ROLL PKG.

USAir® REGULAR OR COUNTRY STYLE
DONALD DUCK 9 9
ORANGE JUICE 54 oz. 0

 

.79

FLY WITH THE 5ZA§;§;Ag;3{'GE/ 399
'   COAST SOAP...... 8 BAR

CI LOANS, from page 1

Clinton said the current student loan
system encourages graduates to take
jobs in which they will make more
money to pay back their loans sooner,
but said it encourages them to contrib-
ute less to society than they might with
a lower-paying job.

“So what we seek to do is to enable
the American students to borrow the
money they need for college and pay it
back as a small percentage of their own
income over time,” Clinton said.

Elmendorf said Clinton proposes to
ﬁnance the national service program

x n x : n n : : x : I I I n I x : I I I I I I llll.l1llllllllllIlllIlllIl__|1lllIlllllllilllllilllll

with savings generated by the switch to
direct student loans. Unlike banks, the
government would not have a profit
margin.

But that could fail, Elmendorf said,
if the government has to spend more
money on loan administration than the
competitive banks spend.

CBA cites a report from a research
division of the Library of Congress that
says direct student loans could cost the
government more than the loans cost
banks if the government cannot match
private-sector efficiency.

Washington and Lee Director of
Financial AidJohn DeCourcy said CBA
wants to ﬁght direct student loans be-

cause the banks make money from the
loan system. '

“They’ve got a guaranteed loan ”
he said. “They can’t go wrong with it.

But DeCourcy agreed with CBA’s
skepticism of efficient government
management and said loan manage-
ment could turn into a bureaucratic
monster.

“Here we’ve got the govemment,”
DeCourcy said. “Ten years down the

road, we’ve got this incredible mo-.

rass.”

DeCourcy also said that if direct
student loans fail, the banks might not
invest the money in people and pro-
cesses to get back in the business.

Four Bedroom house for rent
for next school year
Ca“ 4.§§.:§.3§.§....

Illlllllllllllll

 
 

. . . . . . . . . . - . . I1_|J._l1..Il.1_l_1l111|lJ|llllIIlllIll||||lK‘|’I[]l|lIIIlIIIl1'.II[|||||

l,.We.’veﬁmnd the bottestplacese
 at the lowest prices I

 1’ Ah/I '

A The travel guides
you can count on for fun
within your budget

‘en’ q £0.95-FJCR.

OWT

   
    
 
 
 

   
    
 
 

Let's Go: 0 Europe 0 Italy 0 Britain & Ireland 0 France

SWEEPSTAKES A55ORT-ED FLAVOR5 0 Germany, Austria & Switzerland 0 Greece & Turkey .
Ygu could win one  These Fabulous    ' Israel & Egypt ' Spain & Portugal ° LOI'lClOl'I ’ Paris ' gOm9 A :/5,’‘
- - - ~ 0 Mexico 0 U.S.A. 0 New York City 0 Washington, D. t.  ‘
Prizes. See Details And Register At The PC COLA ............ .. 2 LTR. . Paciﬁc Northwest’ western Canada & Naska

, Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter. ._ Camomia & Hawaii

 

I 0 One Pair Of Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call l-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

In Each Harris Teeter For March/ April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Cake
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

94

IN THE DELI-
BAKERY

   

6Cl'.

9 HUNTER
ALL NATURAL
ICE CREAM

 

4- 15 oz. ASSORTED
RAVE HAIR CARE
PRODUCTS

 

. Prices Effective Throu

Prices In This Ad Ellective Wednesday, March l0 Through Tu

gh March I6, I993  

esday, March l6, T993. In Lexington stores only.

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal tood btamps.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando   ' LET’ Go, I .
Florida For The Game With Orlando   i_ ‘ V A suuiouimr or HAﬂIlAsRD S1'|I“:EllT Aosiiciiis, Inc.
Magic, Inclludes Ail: Fgi-8 On U.Si(Air H If * _r t 31. MARTIN'S Pass: 1
Accommo ations n ame Tic ets.

0 ﬁne Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,  - ..r- .3-.' -2- -¥- 1''’ 5;-' F -'!=‘ g -7: "9'

.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes THE LENFEST SERIES

Game Tickets 8: Hotel Accommodations. presents

 

‘-1.

HE REDUCED SHAKESPEARE
A   COMPANY

'Z-any, ﬁilarious, acroﬁatic, and pure fun -- Q)O9\C‘Z"9l{I.53 PT!’

 

 
 

 
   
    

Tickets & Reservations 463-8000
T J: 11*

-\.

March 16 & 17 at 8:00 PM
LENFEST CENTER

0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday '  

Pi;

3: "‘==._<‘-"-"'0-. '

 

 

Last Week:

Base- B’water 8,W&L 3 (0-2)
MLax— W&L 13,F&M 7 (2-0)
WLax- W&L 18,B’water 3 (2-0)
WTen- W&L 5,R—MC 2 (2-1)

Golf— 2nd at B’water

PAGE 8

S

PORTS

@112 ﬂing-mm Iﬂlii T" 5 Week

I
Base- at R-MC(2) 3/ 1 3

MLax— Roanoke 3/13 2pm .
WLax- Salisburt St. 3/13 2pm

MTen- Nazareth 3/12 3pm

WTen- Hollins 3/11 3pm;Nazareth 3/12
T&F- at B’water 3/ 13 (M&W)

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK&F|ELD

MARCH 11, 1993

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Fling-tum Phi

Look at the goalie, actually between the 7 and 6. That little white blob is Lisa Dowling’s
shot that flew past the Bridgewater goalie. It was a familiar sight for the Eagles net-

minder. Dowling scored six goals and assisted on three others. Her nine total points
was a new school record for points in a single game.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

The Washington and Lee
baseball team is a perfect ex-
ample of a paradoxical team.

The Generals have three home
runs in their first two games.
That’s half the total of all of
1992.

However, the team has only
managed to bring five runners
across home plate, while giving
up 12.

W&L ran into another stone
wall Tuesday, losing to
Bridgewater, 8-3.

Freshman Graig Fantuzzi re-
tired 12 of the first 13 batters he
faced and took a no—hitter into
the fifth.

That’s where the Eagles am-
bushed him. They scored six runs
on five hits, with two walks and

one hit batter.

The Generals did excellent
individual performances at the
plate from Geren Steiner and Jon
Hesse. Steiner finished his first
college baseball game 3-for-4.

Meanwhile, Hesse continued
to swing a strong bat in his final
season, going 2-for-5, both hits
doubles.

Fantuzzi has both of the Gen-
erals losses, but his performances
have shown he has a great deal of
promise.

The Generals go to Randolph-
Macon for a doubleheader on
Saturday.

The W&L women’s tennis
team finally got their spring sea-
son underway, pummeling
ODAC rival Randolph-Macon,

By SEAN O’RoURi-(E
Phi Sports Editor

What image do you get when you read,
“I’ve fallen and I can’t get up”?

Answer: a little old lady who couldn’t act
her way out of the bathtub she’ s laying against.

Well, I present you with a new image for
that most infamous phrase.

The opponents of the Washington and
Lee men’s and women’s lacrosse teams. If it
was in vogue to say the Generals slaughtered
their foes, I would.

It has been a fun year thus far for men’s
head coach Jim (don’t call me Vince)
Stagnitta. He has arguably the strongest team
of his tenure, and he has them psyched and
ready to play hard-nosed lacrosse. The team ’ s
first two wins have also developed a winning
attitude on the team.

“Obviously they [the two wins] boost our
confidence,” Stagnitta said. “They show we
have the ability to play with the better teams
and win.”

W&L dispatched of Randolph-Macon last
week. This week brought the 13th-ranked
‘Franklin & Marshall Diplomats, and try as
they might, F&M couldn't negotiate the
Generals’ mines on Wilson Field and went
home losers, 13-7.

“Kids deserve a lot of credit for keeping
their composure," Stagnitta said, “they did a
great job of that.”

Wiemi Douoguih [the second-best name
in all of sports behind Zarry Zalapsky] has
been the spark plug for the W&L offense in
the early stages of this season.

Douoguih opened the 1993 campaign with
four goals and four assists against Randolph-
Macon. He followed that stellar performance
with another one against the Diplomats.

Douoguih tallied three goals and two as-
sists. The senior attackman finished 1992
with 33 points (25 goals, 8 assists). He is now
on a pace to obliterate all W&L single-
season records with seven goals and six
assists in just his first two games.

Joining Douoguih on the Generals’ first
two scoring binges are senior David
Lefkowitz and sophomore Scott Mackley.

Lefkowitz is trying to make his final go-
around with the Generals his best, picking up
six goals and an assist in the first two con-
tests.

Mackley has been a welcomed additionl
retumee. Mackley missed all of last season
with a knee injury, but has proved the wait
was worth it, tying Lefkowitz for second on
the team with six goals of his own and one
assist.

The road gets real tough real fast for
W&L as they welcome the third-ranked
Roanoke Maroons to Wilson Field this Sat-
urday. The winner of this game has the inside
track to the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence title. The past three seasons, the winner
of this game went on to take the crown.

For senior defender Josh Levinson, this
game comes down to who wants it more.

“[A key to the game is] we have to pick up
more ground balls than they do. That’s all
hustle, heart and desire,” Levinson said. “We
have to control the ball better than we have if
we want to win.”

Women’s head coach Janine Hathom has
enjoyed the same success as her counterpart.

In the first two games for W&L, they have
outscored their opponents 38-9.

The Generals opened 1993 by—what’s in
vogue now?-—embarrassing their ﬁrst two
foes. The Quakers of Guilford fell easily.

Lax teams scorch foes; big tests Saturday O

Wednesday afternoon.

Under gray clouds and falling tempera-
tures the Generals kept the scoreboard
operator’s ﬁngers warm once again by com-
piling 18 goals,while only relinquishing three.

At Guilford, sophomore Nicole "Ripken
led the team. At home against the Eagles,g't
was senior Lisa Dowling’s turn to demon-
strate her considerable offensive skills.

Dowling set a new school record for most
points in a single game. She scored six goals
and added three assists. The old record was
eight, held by three different players. Dowlin g
also added to her school -record total for a —
sists. She passed Kimberly Bishop against
Guilford with her one assist.

This performance even pleased Hathom.

“[The team played] very well, they came
out very ready to play,” Hathom said. “It was
a very balanced effort.”

Ripken chipped in four g()als, sophomoﬁe

Lindsay Coleman had three, senior Paige_

Henke and junior Angie Carrington each
added two and Meredith Long scored her
first. Just to get some sort of perspective on
this cremation, the Generals outshot the Eagles
44-12.

But these easy victories do cause Haihoir.n
some problems, especially when it comes to
the team becoming overconﬁdent.

“I’m a little bit concerned about the team
becoming satisfied. I don’t want them to feel
satisfied about what they have done so far,”
Hathom said. “It is something to really look
out for.”

Another something to look out for is tfie

team’s next contest against powerhouse‘

Salisbury State on Saturday. It will be the
team’s first real test, and will prepare them
for the major showdown with ODAC rival
Roanoke next Thursday.

5-2. 1
The team now has the diffi-
cult task of playing six matches
in nine days, ending with top-
ranked Kenyon College.

Senior Claire Dudley and
freshman Rebekah Prince are in
their final preperations for their
trip to the Division 111 National
meet.

Both are competing in three
events. Prince is seeded sixth in
the 200—backstroke, ninth in the
100-backstroke and 20th in the
200-IM.

Dudley claimed the 18th seed
in the 200—breaststroke, 20th in
the 100-breaststroke and 36th in
the 50-freestyle.

The meet is this weekend at
Emory University in Atlanta, Ga.

Next came the Eagles of Bridgewater on

Ahoy, mate

  

 

Photo by Jameson Leonardi, The Ring-tum Phi

4
A United States Naval Academy runner makes it safelypback to first. The men from Annapolis visited Lexington
to scrimmage the Generals on Wednesday.

Women’s clothing.

  TGIF

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount

Everyday - GUARANTEED!-We receive
merchandise from America’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse. Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and

Famous knit tops for women — regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Valley 

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

 
     
   
 

22

   
 

 

    
    
  

130S.MainSt

     

\\\\\\\V.\

32 dale - TRE — Din k

Lexington Bike Shop

I ia
Jansport day packs and book bags

     

Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

    

453-7969

11 W. Nelson Street

W&L Students, we welcome you to our Barber Shop for
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barbershop

S. Main St. Lexinton - Below First American Bank

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT ‘j

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Robby J ones
(703) 463-2022

  

  

UNIV

 

 m
-£RSlITY

  

SPURTWEAR

Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99

    

oppo of

All Winter Merchandise

\ 

 

  
  

 

  

  

%

/

é

. Z 15 w. WASHINGTON ST
Lﬁxgngttolrli L Bld ) g 500/ Oﬂ LEXll\7l§g'?glA \3//S\O2O445O
D°“'“t°“'“ ° er ' ee 3' / 23 N M ' St 0 (703) 463-5988 ' iv
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 Z .' am ' / ' ' '
703'463'9730     
"'-:-  ‘ __. _.;._._.;. - : H .-:-c-:-:-:-' :-:-:.-:-:-:-:-:—:a:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:~"-:-:-:-:«:-:-:-:-':-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-c-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:7-:-555 f —
g 6 ’ z W&L Art
. a   1870 Washington College Diploma F
— signed “R.E. Lee" '
, .  Signatures:
Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.  Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee. Jr.
t 555 M. Miley John Letcher _
All-U-Can Eat  a 5;; Edward Valentine +
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99  wavlvfzr %o1j{)1I)3erIpleeéti}rllii2t1‘r31&i;3cd<)iltci>(§1e1dart
. . ' u 1-: an . .
Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable  M Scu&pé:1;gl3eyvR§§h;1;111§gS£%ieces
'3' a an
9 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95 _ -  , ry .
Saturday Night Prime Rib 0  m E m U  id
Queen cut $11.95 ‘King cut $13.95 Truck stop  "
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.  
4   on Route   4 East Washington Street Open Monday - Saturday
:5 We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell " k{‘§5‘3‘3‘§,t§f,‘;6Y,‘‘}5,f445° 10 am’ ' 530 pm‘
 . .' - .3-c.-c-c~c~:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-c-:-:<-:-:-:-: :-:-:-:-c-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:~:-:-:-:-:-:-:-' ..-:-:-:-:-:-:-:+:-:«.-i--:-:-:«:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-1-I-I-I-I-I-'-I-I-I-I-I-=-I-I-I-I-I -------- - -it 

. V I l ’ . ' ~

 

V THE umvensrrv LIBRARY
WASHINGTON s LEE UNIVERSITY
Li§>§j§tGTOi~l, VA 24450

i7lKii‘1‘9 199% I

 

YEE HAW!

Dance Club Gives
Students A Chance
To Scoot Their Boots

Blizzard Blues 2*:

Weekend snowfﬁl
disrupts spring schedule

sis

i>I<=

as
6

sis ?>1<=

U112 iftin -tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 92, NO. 22

fiumpshakers
miss chance
at stardom

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

By MOLLY AFTER
Q Phi Staff Writer

Two free nights at a D

$300 in spending money and the chance to be on

national television. Sounds too good to be true.
For the Rumpshakers, winners of the Washing-

ton and Lee Rock-a-Like Lip Sync contest in

January, it was.

After being asked to come to Florida to perform
their act on MTV, the six students could not find a
ride and had to forgo their 15 minutes of fame.

Group member Maurice Cole, a junior, said a
representative from MTV called him March 5 and
as ed if the group could get to Daytona March 12.

~ Cole, senior Robyn Gabriel, junior Nikki
Mayfield, and freshmen Jack Thorn, Colleen
Thompson and Kyna Bryant, the members of the

group, were ecstatic.

But a lack of transportation kept the
Rumpshakers out of the spotlight. Plane tickets
were too expensive, and Cole said the group could

n& find a company that
one under 25.

Dean of Students David Howison tried to get
the group a university-owned van for the trip, Cole
said. But on Tuesday he told Cole that the van
could not make it to Florida.

Cole scrambled to find an alternative, but said
h¢!)egan to realize the trip’s effects on his classes.

“My academic work wasn ’t getting done,” Cole
said. “I talked with the group and let them know
that I didn’t want to go.”

The group had to call MTV and cancel the

appearance.

The contest will begin airing tonight on MTV.

W&L

on sexual assault issues

aytona Beach, Fla., hotel,

would rent cars to some-

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Supersnow

Sophomore Hugh Robinson cavorts in the snow with a couple of canine compan-
ions. Last weekend's storm delivered 17 inches of snow ‘and 32 mph winds to __
Lexington. ' ‘ ‘  ‘ " ’  ’ ’ ’ ‘ ‘

students speak out

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 18, 1993

43 students vie
for class offices

Constitutional revisions go to vote

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Staff Writer

The student body will have to wade
through 43 candidates for class officers
and Executive Committee representatives
and a constitutional referendum Monday.

The constitutional revisions were pro-
posed by The Ring-tum Phi Executive
Editors Cathryn Lopiccolo and Richard
Peltz in an effort to bring the constitution
up to date with current student govem-
ment practices. The EC voted to send the
amendments to a referendum.

“Right now the student government is
essentially functioning without a consti-
tution,” Peltz said. “That leaves the EC
unaccountable to its constituency. ”

EC President Josh MacFarland said he
supports the amendments and hopes
enough students vote to pass them.

“[The amendments] will clean up the
process," MacFarland said. “There are a
lot of things [in the amendments] we al-
ready do, but aren’t in the constitution.”

For the amendments to pass, half of the
student body must vote in the referendum,
and two-thirds of the voters must approve.

Students will have the opportunity to
vote yes for all the amendments by mark-
ing a single box, or to vote foreach amend-
ment separately. Seniors may vote in the
constitutional referendum. K ,__

MacFarland and John Refo, Voting
Regulations Board chairman, said the num-

    

Photo by Amy Fren

Events celebrate FOI

_ The F! g-m Ph

ber of candidates for the class elections is
tremendous.

Forty-three rising seniors, juniors and
sophomores are running for 13 positions.

MacFarland said he is encouraged by
the large turnout of candidates, especially
women. He said increased advertising
helped get more people interested.

Rising seniors running for class presi-
dent are Bill Chappell, Tom Hespos, Carlin
Jones and Ashley Scott. Running for vice
president are Michelle Hobbs and Kevin
Roddey. Running for senior EC represen-
tative are Kenney Bullock, John Hassig,
Allison Lewis, Joe Ramseur, Kendall
Sibley and Aspen Yawars. ,

Rising juniors running for senior class
presidentare Whitney Bludworth, Lawson
Brice, Alan Schoellkopf and Sarah Tune.
Running for vice president are Carol
Amason, Sarah Aschenbach, Michael
Brooks and Drew Denbo. Running for
junior EC representative are Ryan Boone,
Alex Cross, Joe Frampton, Shelby Kerr,
Bryan King, Lloyd Peeples, Carol Pierce
and Robert Stewart.

Running for rising sophomore class
president are Melissa Byrd, Graham Frey,
Ransom James, Preston Miller, Robert
Turner and Ben Vanderver. Madeline
White is running for vice president. Run-
ning for sophomore EC representative are
Joseph Brookshire, Justin Dardani, Ma-
son New, Clay Richards, Robert Ross,
Frank Sparrow, David Stewart and Ellen
Wasilausky.

VV&L
buys
ElRodeo

By ToM HI-ISPOS
Phi Staff Writer

In a deal finalized Wednes-
day, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity became the owner of one
defunct Mexican restaurant.

University Treasurer
Lawrence W. Broomall said
W&L purchased El Rodeo on
North Main Street to provide
more office space for the univer-
sity. If all goes according to
plan, Broomall said, the new
building will be renovated and

  

 

week is impacting the community
where it should. _

“I just feel that if you’re going to
have a Sexual Assault Awareness
W!ek, you should focus on the frater-
nities, because it seems to me that most

, of the sexual assaults happen around

the fraternity parties,” she said. “I’m
not blaming the fraternities for this, but
I think people need to be more careful

sexual assault.

“I think many people aren’t aware
of what constitutes assault,” junior
Damani Bryant said.

Sophomore Kandice Durden says
she sees the root of most sexual as-
saults in the consumption of alcohol.

“The people around here drink too
much, and when they do, they get very
defenseless and senseless,” she said.

Freshman Frances Smith sees the

Dean of Students Office and
Rockbridge Area Coalition Against
Sexual Assault are sponsoring Sexual
Assault Awareness Week.

At displays around campus students
have tied ribbons for people they know
who have been sexually assaulted and
written comments on quote boards.

Ron Campbell, a human sexuality
educator at George Mason University,
will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the

By MICHAEL HEWLETT . . men about sexual
ma satrwma “I tied a ribbon because . . . “”f3‘,‘,“',,,,,,,,, ,,,a,
I tied a ribbon for my mother who was sexually ‘here i5_10° high 3
urins - W&L’s molested by her grandfather. perception that a
S ual Assault Aware— womanisfair game
11658 WK‘-Ck» S€V€f31 5111' I tied a ribbon because I was sexually assaulted by if She's drunk: 0’
dents haV€ Teacled P0Sl‘ one of my best friends freshman year. Ib)’l the W3)’ 5h€’5
tivelyto the university’s dressed or acting,”
activities and havetaken I tied a ribbon because I thought sexual assault was Smith Said-
lhe lime 10 C0nSldeT the overexaggerated until my best friend was raped. Freshman Frahk
problem of sexual as- Sparrow Said
. Saak 1 tie three ribbons  one for my friend who was 5eXUa1aS5311hi5‘°° _ _ _
“I  SCXLIHI AS‘ rap¢d. one for Iny  who was  assaulted’ C0mpICXaHlSSU(.5 I0  Swagler, ’84,  In Lee   night.
Sallll Awareness Week and one for my ex-boyfriend who was molested as a P1309 blame 33511)’-
is a very productive tool chug, “No matter
that provides necessary What. people are re-
informalion 10' the (Quotes from quote board in the University Center.) 5P0nSibl¢ f0T Whal
school,” junior Maurice they do,” Sparrow
Caseostflligmore Jennifer Salgllhe Health Edu- By RICHARD WEAVER
Yanulavich questioned whether the problem is that people don’t report Calioﬂ C0fI1miiI€€. W0m€1'1’S Fofllm, PM Reader Relamns Coordmamr

In the United States today, “reporters
are going to jail for printing the truth,”
said Rick Swagler, ’84, in a speech in Lee
Chapel Monday.

Swagler is a staff attorney for the Re-
porters Committee for Freedom of the
Press in Washington, D.C. The Ring-tum
Phi and Society of Professional Joumal-
ists sponsored his visit in commemora-
tion of Freedom of Information Day.

the Reporters Committee of 1,010 U.S.
newspapers and television stations in
which 3,281 subpoenas were served, call-
ing on journalists to reveal confidential
sources for criminal investigations. ’

Earlier Monday, the Phi held a cer-
emony dedicating the tree outside Reid
Hall to the late Professor of Journalism
Clark R. Mollenhoff.

Phi Executive Editor Cathryn
Lopiccolo directed the dedication.

“It was a beautiful ceremony,”
Lopiccolo said. “I think it brought back
fond memories of Professor Mollenhoff

when they go out.”

oBut some students say the greater

problem as a misconception among

  

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

Kiss Me, I’m Irish

OT his smiling leprachaun greets Spanky's customers
on their way to celebrate St. Patrick's Day.

 

Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.

Swagler cited a survey conducted by

for everyone who knew him.”

Fad puts new products in the eleatr

From the Associated Press

It’s hip to be clear. Or is it hype?

Well-known marketers in categories from
soft drinks to dish-washing liquids, mouth-
washes and deodorants are scrambling to get
clear spin—off s from distinctively-tinted old
standbys on supermarket shelves.

There is Crystal Pepsi and Tab Clear. The
Palmolive and Ivory names now appear on
clear dish-washing liquids. Lavoris now
markets a colorless mouthwash, and Ban has
a clear solid deodorant. Even gasoline is
going clear.

The clear movement spread this month to
the beer business, where consumers have
long taken a brew’s measure on acolor scale
ranging from yellow to black.

Miller Brewing Co. plans to introduce the
industry’s first clear beer, Miller Clear, in
several markets later this month.

Marketers say they chose clear over an-
other color because transparency provides a
real benefit or helps call attention to other

changes that distin- -;~~
guish the clear prod-
uct from the original.
Makers of clear
deodorants, for ex-
ample, say theirprod—
ucts leave no white
residue on clothes like
traditional sticks do.
New Product ~
News, a monthly,
Chicago—based publi-

  

cation that chronicles
productintroductions,
spotted about48 clear products among 16,790
new food, personal care or household prod-
ucts in 1992.

Pepsi—Cola Co. said Crystal Pepsi was
created in response to research that indicates
some people wanted a cola with natural lla-
voring, no preservatives and less sweetness.

Pepsi thinks regular and diet Crystal Pepsi
can capture $1 billion in retail sales this year,
about 2 percent of the market.

In response to the new Pepsi drink, Coca-
Cola Co. is testing TabClear, aversion of one

 Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Fiin_cj—ttim Phi

of its diet ‘colas.

Jane Fitzgibbon, who follows consumer
trends for the advertising agency Ogilvy &
Mather, said she suspects a fad element in the
rising use ofclear marketing, but that “clear”
can be a potent selling tool.

“We want clear air, clear water. It means
trouble-free and blemish—free,” she said. “It
makes people more comfortable in using
these products.”

Staff Writer Tom Ilexpos contributed to
this story.

 

will house the University Print
Center.

Broomall would not disclose
how much the deal cost the uni-
versity, but he said the renova-
tions to the building will cost
approximately $15,000.

According to Broomall, W&L
has been trying to acquire the El
Rodeo building for about three
years because it borders on other
university-owned properties.

In particular, the university
wanted to protect its investment
in the Red Square fraternities
from a “non-compatible use,”
Broomall said in a press release.

Broomall said the university
has an agreement wherein the
university pays a grant to the city
that is equivalent to the taxes
W&L would normally pay on
new non—academic property ac-
quisitions. The new property will
fall under this agreement.

According to a W&L press
release, the university paid the
city more than $83,000 last year
to compensate for property taxes
and city services. ,

Printing Center Supervisor
Wayne Connor said he “just heard
that it’s a possibility” that his
office will be moved to the El
Rodeo location next year. He
said that although the Print Cen-
ter will be located closer to town,
the Print Center will not attempt
to take in business from town.

In a press release, Broomall
also formally announced that the
university will sell the Sigma Phi
Epsilon fraternity house at the
comer of Preston and Lee av-
enues when the new Sig Ep house
in Davidson Park is completed.

 

PAGE 2

    

@112 iKiIIg-111111 {Elsi  

Founded September 18, 1897

Goodbye,
farewell and amen

We have served on The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board for two years
now, and we’ve seen a lot things happen in this column.

The first editorial with us on the board was on April 25, 1991 and began
this way: “So you think we’re sensationalistic, immature, shallow, chest-
beating, rhetorical, unreliable, prone to pouting, National Enquirer-esque,
boring and ugly.” Those were some of the words used by respondents in
a readership survey.

The Phi called for a student review of the Conﬁdential Review
Committee in October 1991 at the start of a process which ended with the
CRC’s demise a year and a half later. That same fall, the Phi presented a
series of editorials to promote awareness of sex-related crimes, in response
to several reports of rape on campus. We also urged the Interfratemity
Council to vote against Alpha Phi Alpha’s re-colonization at W&L, a
position which earned us some heat; the IFC approved Alpha.

We kicked off 1992 with a call for honesty about the Honor System,
citing hypocrisy in the narrow confines of a lying-cheating-stealing
definition of dishonorable conduct. We evaluated the candidacy of Mickey
Mouse, among others, in a February editorial blaming the EC for poor
election planning. That month we also printed the home telephone number
of Lexington Mayor H.E. “Buddy” Derrick (463-4066) in an editorial, one
of many, against the car tax. In March, we responded to accusations of
sensationalism with a review of a newspaper’s function in the community.

Coverage of sex-crime charges impelled us to write, “Guidelines we all
can live with?” in September 1992, an outline of the Phi’s new policies on
who we name in such cases. In November, we urged the Board of Trustees
to keep its paws out of the Honor System, an editorial which prompted a
stream of debate. We then lambasted the city and demanded action by the
university in another car-tax editorial, “Follow the dollar”; the administra-
tion did not respond, but the editorial was covered by local media.

In January, we used this column to introduce an in-depth report on
University President John Wilson’s first decade in office, giving some
insight into the mind of the writer. We also this, term scolded the EC for
scheduling too-early Big Four elections, and we endorsed IFC autonomy
against SAC control of the Rush revisions process.

All in all, this column has been home to an array of opinions on
countless issues, most of direct concern to students, many of concern to
society. We wrote seriously much of the time, but sometimes we tried to
lighten things up with a humorous approach. Sometimes we ran columns
we had planned for weeks, and sometimes we struggled to fill this space
Wednesday night. But every week for the last two years, we have had the
privilege of filling this space with the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi.

Regardless of which, if any, of those opinions students have agreed
with, we hope this column, and the Phi on the whole, has provoked

thoughtful debate and, once in a while, a few smiles. As we carcen toward
graduation, we’re confident that the newspaper’s new leadership in the
spring will continue the proud tradition of The Ring-tum Phi.

There is of course one more element of this column, probably the best-

read section of the newspaper,-.the occasional feature, “Quote of the ~*

Week." ‘As"we‘bid“you farewell; we leave ytsugwim some-oﬁour’faverite
Quotes of the Week from the pasttwo years‘. ‘ ' ' ' -4 CL,'RP

—Did you know that your telephone number is I -800—DON’T-CALL?
—No. it’s not sir. It's 1 -800—FO0TBALL.

-— former Phi Editor Brian Root and an 800 operator (May 16, 1991)
There are five hundred million radios in the United States. If you laid all
those radios end to end, you would be really bored.

— Professor Brian Richardson (Oct. 31, 1991)
They’ re into a lot of service and high academic standards, not what we’ re
used to. I
— IFC President Greg Hicks on Alpha Phi Alpha (Nov. 14, 1991)
Continental drift is the only hope for the South to rise again.
—— a professor (Oct. 1, 1992)
If I give out too many, please pass them— excuse the word — to the left.
— Professor of History Jefferson Davis Futch (Oct. 22, 1992)
Hello, you’ ve reached the Institution for the Sexually Frustrated Pyro-
Necro-Beastiphiliacs. As soon as I'm done with this flaming dead cat, I'll
call you back.
V — W&L students’ answering machine (Nov. 12, 1992)
There’s only one reason we’re really here on earth. That's to reproduce.
[Otherwise ,] God could have made it painful , like you have to cut off your
arm and rub the stubs together.
— Ice-T (Feb. 25, 1993)
I am not the editor of a newspaper and shall always do right and be good,
so that God will not make me one.

— Mark Twain
C . 0
Ellie fang-tum 19111
Executive Editors . . .1 . . . . . . .Cathryn Lopiecolo, Richard Peltz

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nikki Magaziner

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sean O’Rourke

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joyce Bautista

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mallory Meyers

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

The Hing-tum Phi, March 17, 1993

 

Et.it~11> Fhlfrf,

 

Baltimore tackles teen pregnancy issue ,

BALTIMORE — Begin here: In

1990 nearly 10 percent of Baltimore

implant will not protect her until after
her next period, which is two weeks

  
    

girls aged 15 away,andsheis
to 17, almost asked if she
all unmarried, needs a supply
gave birth. ofcondoms for
That is why in GEORGE WILL the interval,
1993 the city _ Oh, yes, she
is embarking Washington POSI says emphati-
on a program ‘ ca1ly_

to make Waters Group She is 13.
Norplant, a New , con-
long-term sider some

( f i v e - y e a r)

contraceptive implant, available to teen-
age girls at school clinics and else-
where.

The case against the program can be
put concisely: By substituting chemi-
cal protection for moral restraint, it
sends a message of resignation regard-
ing behavior once considered deviant
and reprehensible but now redeﬁned in
the name of “realism” as normal.

The case for the program can be put
even more concisely: Rebecca (not her
real name).

She is wearing sneakers, clean jeans
and a lavender sweatshirt. She snifﬂes
constantly, the consequence of a cold,
or perhaps of the substance abuse (sniff-

ing'paiI1t'ﬂiil*l'I1€f','aS‘Well' ‘as ‘using PC? ‘ ’ ‘ ‘

and -alc”(;'1'-it')l)‘21tl'i;zit'-‘g"ot li'e’r»-’~'sem£.t'(?) a

residential treatrnent center. There she ’

heard about Norplant from a public
health official. Now ata hospital clinic
she is listening impassively as a nurse
gives her all the information necessary
for informed consent for the insertion
in her upper arm, by a 10-minute pro-
cedure, of six match stick-size cap-
sules.

Rebecca, who has been sexually
active for two years, is told that the

numbers pro-
vided by Douglas Besharov and Karen
Gardiner in The American Enterprise
journal.
This year 10 million teenagers will
engage in 126 million acts of sexual
intercourse resulting in more than one
million pregnancies, 406,000 abortions,
134,000 miscarriages and 490,000
births, about 64 percent (313,000) of
them illegitimate. In 1988, 11,000
American babies were born to females
under 15. In 1990, 32 percent of ninth
grade females had sexual intercourse.
Seventeen percent of 12th grade girls
have had four or more partners.
Such numbers suggest that any
message communicated by a Norplant
program" ‘will not have’ ‘a ‘measurable

5-effect on the moresiofanage in which
more teenagers are havingsex more ‘

often and at an earlier age, and much of
the increase has been among middle
class teenagers, most of them white.
Rebecca, by the way, is white.

The question is how to limit the
social costs of all this, given the fact
that (in Besharov and Gardiner’s words)
“adolescents who cannot remember to
hang up their bath towels may be just as
unlikely to use contraceptives.”

Norplant is “teenager proof” because it
requires neitherr a daily action (as with
the pill) nor foresight (as with a dia-
phragm) nor a partner’s cooperation
(as with condoms).

Times have changed? Yes, but let’s
be clear about how. Forty years ago
teenage pregnancy ‘rates were higher
than today. However, most pregnan-
cies occurred in, or were promptly fol-
lowed by, marriage.

Today few teenagers who become
pregnant wanted to. (A study suggests
that the “wantedness” rate is higher for
whites than for blacks.) But for those

nancy.

But the prospects for such babies ’

are at best problematic. Better the
unwanted pregnancy had not occurred.
And Norplant may be the most feasible
preventative.

Norplant has been embroiled eQe—
where in controversial welfare and
criminal justice policies, raising ques-
tions of morally or legally dubious
coercion. There have been proposals
for monetary incentives or sanctions
for unmarried welfare mothers to agree
to implants. ‘

Judges have proposed implants in

Who do b<_3C0m€ lieuofprisonfor
P_T€gnaT(1iL 1T_1C1€I1- women con-
tivesan socia re— . ‘ d fd
inforcements are Tlmes have changed? Z:/licil<ela(l;us2l%:lt
ﬁmobemarkeglly Yes, but let’s be clear leaving .asi;ie ..
»xi1iiii:::i:libiaci:)sr. about h°w' Forty years 
Awhitesubur— ago teenage pregnancy acceptable for
banteenagerwho rates were higher than society to en-

becomes preg-
nant is apt to get
anabortion and go
on to college. A
black inner city

today. However, most
pregnancies occurred in,
or were promptly fol-

c o u r a g e
Norplant use,
Baltimore’s
evolving poo-
gram seems

teenager’s preg-

lowed by, marriage.

careful, consen-

nancy is not apt to
disruptsimilar‘e‘x—  r 0'?

upectations.  J   ~

Many inner-city female teenagers
have not seen a man in the role of
economic and emotional provider for a
family. And given the savage harvest
of homicide, drugs and jail, the cohort
of marriageable inner-city males is
small.

Furthermore, the pregnant teenager
is apt to have a supportive matriarchy
to rely on if she decides to have the
baby resulting from the unwanted preg-

sual and needed.
And those black

 activistswhoprofesstoseeNorplantas .

a “genocidal” attack on black fertility
should answer this: 3

What is more dangerous to the ﬂour-
ishing of black America: Norplant for
teenagers, or a growing number of black
adolescents headed for a life in poverty
because they were born into poverty to
a single mother whose life chances
were blighted by a pregnancy atgl5
years old?

© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

WASHINGTON — A federal judge has just ruled
that the national health care task force headed by
Hillary Rodham Clinton can advise the president in
private. While it’s “fact—
gathering” meetings must be

Lyndon .lohnson’s declaration in 1964 that he would
not name as vice president anyone who sat as a
member of his Cabinet. Both the law and LBJ ’s
presidential edict were petty
swipes at the same man, Rob-

open to the public, its “con-
sultations” do not have to
be.

Translation: Pillow talk
still goes.

What triggered the odd
ruling, of course, was the
president’s decision to give
his wife such a dominant
policy role. Her assignment
is to blueprint a comprehensive health care program
that (a) extends insurance to the 37 million Ameri-
cans not now covered and (b) cuts the country's
overall medical costs.

In delegating this daunting task to his wife, Clinton
is following in the footsteps of his beloved predeces-
sor John F. Kennedy, who gave his brother Robert
responsibility for the most sensitive issue of the early
1960s: civil rights.

Kennedy made the assignment formally. He ap-
pointed his younger sibling attomey general, a job
from which he could advise the president generally
while, at the same time, handling the politically
sensitive tasks of the post itself.

Naming Hillary Clinton to the Cabinet would
accomplish the same intent. It would give her the
governmental authority to both serve the president
and carry out her huge task of developing a workable,
efficient, enduring national health plan. She could
take orders and give them. She could do so officially,
not at the sufferance of her spouse.

There’s only one barrier to putting Hillary on the
Cabinet: it’s illegal. In 1967, Congress outlawed any
member of the presidential family from holding a job
under him.

As legislation, it was as stupidly deceitful as

 
  
   

CHRISTOPHER
MATTHEWS

Tribune Media

ert Kennedy. LBJ didn’t
want the former president’s
brother on his ticket but
didn’t want to say so. Con-
gress didn’t like the former
attorney general ’s aggressive
style, but also didn’t want to
say so.

So, three decades later,
we have the legacy of the
“Bobby Kennedy law.” It prevents Bill Clinton or
any other president from naming the person he wants
and needs in a job simply because that person hap-
pens to be his relative.

Services

Repeal the ‘Bobby Kennedy law’

administration’s No. 1 policy initiative?

The issue here is not legality but propriety.

The Executive is an evolving branch of govem-
ment. The Constitution does not, for example, re—
quire that a vice president take orders from the
president. Strictly constructed, the vice president’s
only job is to break ties in the Senate and becogne

president should that become necessary. Until recent 4

years, folks like Al Gore did not even have an office
in the White House.

The role of the first lady has also grown, if less
evenly. Eleanor Roosevelt was her husband's legs,
traveling where the polio-stricken president could
not. Nancy Reagan helped chart her husban ’s
course in another way, through consultation with the
stars.

Obviously, the role depends on who has it.

I believe the current first lady should be singled '

out for a title worthy

A tough argument could
be made that this law is as

of the front-line
policyrole she’s been

unconstitutional as the one
relied upon this week. If it’s
wrong for Congress to re—
strict a president’s access to
privateconsultationthrough
an advisory commission
such as Mrs. Clinton’s, isn’t
it equally so to keep him
from nominating whomever
he wants to his Cabinet?
The administration has
argued in the recent court
case that Hillary Clinton is

I believe the current first lady
should be singled out for a title
worthy of the front-line policy role
she’s been given. Even her critics
would admit that Hillary Rodham
Clinton’s mandate from her hus-
band is a vital one and that she, the
President’s spouse or not, has the
talent and zeal to carry it through.

given. Even her c it-
ics would admit that
Hillary Rodham
Clinton’s mandate
from her husband is a
vital one and that she,
the president’s spouse
or not, has the taléit
and zeal to carry it
through. Like Robert
Kennedy,hersisafull-
time job of the utmost
national concern. She,

the “functional equivalent” of a federal employee. If
so, this is one case where form should follow func-
tion. lf Hillary is functioning as a member of the
Cabinet, shouldn’t she have the title and authority of
a Cabinet officer? If the head of the EPA, the drug
czar and the U.N. ambassador all hold Cabinet rank,
shouldn't the person charged with drafting the

more than anyone else in the government, will write

the national health care policy of the administratitﬂi. -

That’s a job for a Cabinet member. As a courtesy
to the president, as a proper step in correcting a
stupid, petty piece of legislation, Congress should’
repeal the “Bobby Kennedy law.”

© 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Student appalled by vandalism of posters

To the Editor:

Though I ought to have known bet-
ter, I am again disappointed by the
actions of the student body. The wide-
spread distribution of posters announc-
ing numerous activities is taken as a
norm on this campus.

Most of the time, one glances and
merely ignores any “offending” piece
of literature. This sort of action is
acceptable. What is not acceptable is

the active defacing and destruction of
advertisements. Case in point: tearing
a poster in half and then re-tacking the
same poster to show displeasure dis-
gusts me.

I, myself, have been turned off by
posters, such as the infamous College
Republican’s “Why are Democrats’
daughters so ugly?. . . ” Nonetheless, I
left them untouched, because I under-
stand that one has the right to voice

one’s opinions. However, in a school
system which calls for its men and
women to act like “gentlemen” and
“ladies,” this misconduct is abhorrent.

For those of you who are taking
down and destroying the posters on
sexual assault awareness, I hope you
realize that your actions are not only
dishonorable, but also cowardly. If
you hold a different viewpoint, con-
front the issue by speaking out or argu-

ing against it.

Do not play the simplcton by th-
stroying property, which I should point
out, was funded by your own money.
You are onlydefeating yourselves by
proving us right: you are insensitive
and uncaring about the dangers of
sexual assault.

9
Hoe Chin Kim, ’93
Health Education Committee

 

    

"I

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

OPINION

Spos says goodbye to a true friend

 

Sr-os’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

‘This week, Washington and Lee
University said goodbye to a great
man.

Last Thursday, I was sitting in the
Pit with two friends, reading the Phi
after a rather pleasant meal. Bubba
wandered up and told us that he had
s0!nething to say. Whenever Bubba
approached me in the Pit, it was usu-
ally to tell me about something pleas-
ant, like a party or a girl he had met. I
was totally unprepared when he told
me that he had to leave. He was shak-
ing when he told us his reasons for
lea/ing school. It didn’t matter what
those reasons were. All that mattered
was that he had to leave. The familiar
campus restaurant suddenly became a
very uncomfortable place, and we paid
our check before the tears welling in
Bubba’s eyes became too apparent.

¢As we walked outside, I fumbled
with my car keys as Bubba told me that
he would try hard to make it back to
W&L next winter.

“Don’t worry, Tom,” he said.
“Bubba will find his way home.
Bubbas always do.” We said goodbye
arﬁl I promised to bid him farewell
before his ﬁnal departure. As I col-
lapsed into the driver’s seat of my car,
I had to restmy head on the steering
wheel for a minute before I could start
the car. After regaining my compo-
sure, I pulled out of my parking space
arﬂ went home.

Bubba was instrumental in helping
me adjust to life at Washington and
Lee. I first saw him at the Pavilion
party freshman year. He stuck out like
a sore thumb in the large crowd of
people and appeared to be handing out

I flpers of some sort.

He approached me and gave a strong
handshake as he introduced himself.

“My name is Jameson Jared
Leonardi,” he said in a booming voice,
“but you can call me Bubba.” He
would always introduce himself that

9

way, whether he was talking to a fellow
student or to the President of the United
States. Bubba handed me an invitation
to Delta Tau Delta’s party that week-
end. Later in the week, I remembered
Bubba’sfirm handshake and his friendly
manner, and I made sure that I stopped
by Delt to visit him.

As it turned out, Bubba had big
plans for me. He was conﬁdent that I
was “Delt material” and wanted me to
join his fraternity. As an insecure fresh-
man in his first few

‘weeks in a new

I think Bubba’s generosity and self-
lessness are what made him so popular
on campus. Justabouteveryone knows
him or at least knows who he is. He is
especially popular with the girls from
Sweet Briar who all know him as a
kind, caring person. His reputation
with these girls helped him in the long
run, as he was rarely at a loss for a date
to a social function.

Ithink I realized justhow well Bubba
was known among W&L students late

last year when
we both attended

place, I wasn’t so
sure.

a party at
Zollman’s. I

Onenight,while
hanging out in
Bubba’s room, I
began to get wor-
ried about whether
the Delts liked me
enough to give me
a bid tojoin the fra-
ternity. Bubba
eased my fears.
“Don’t worry,
Tom,” he said in his
distinctive bari-
tone, “I’ll stick up

Bubba has, for me, al-
ways fulfilled the charac-
teristics of a true friend.
He always thought of
those who were close to
him before he thought of
himself. He gave me sup-
port in everything that I
did. He helped me in cel-
ebrating my victories and
consoled me after my de-

came out of
Zollman’s dur-
ing a band break
to find Bubba
wrestling in the
mud with a fel-
low student.

A small
crowd had gath-
ered to watch the
two men slip and
slide around in
the mud. Even-
tually, the crowd

for you.” Bubba did

just that. And when feats-

grew to about
150 people, each

the Delts extended
a bid for member-
ship, I was proud to accept.

In the coming weeks, Bubba would
become a close friend and mentor. I
asked him to be my “big brother” and he
happily accepted, swearing to help me
in my travel down the road toward
becoming a full-ﬂedged brother. On
“Hell Night,” the night before I was to
be initiated into the fraternity, Bubba
took care of me. I was drunk to thepoint
where I couldn’t stand up and I was
covered in various foodstuffs. Bubba
offered me new clothes to wear and a
couch to sleep on. Before he climbed
up into his loft for the night, he made
sure that I was okay and that I had a
blanket to keep me warm during the
chillynight. Bubba would always think
of others before he thought of himself.

LETTERS

of them chanting

Bubba’s name
and cheering him on. Bubba wrestled
opponent after opponent and it seemed
that not a single man at the party could
take him down.

Soon, the crowd determined that no
one could possibly defeat Bubba the
Mud Wrestler and that he should wrestle
multiple opponents. It started to get
out of hand when they sent six men up
against him. I decided that I had to save
my big brother.

'1 stripped down to my jeans and
headed into the mudpuddle to save
Bubba. The mud was really cold— I’d
estimate its temperature at about 40
degrees, but that didn’t stop me. After
about 15 minutes and many face-first
plunges into the freezing mud, Bubba
and I had driven away our six oppo-

nents, and I could hear the crowd chant-
ing my fratemity’s name all around
me.

Bubba and I have done some pretty
bizarre things together: beer slides, flag-
pole swinging and mudwrestling only
scratch the surface of the many weird
things we have done together as frater-
nity brothers and more importantly, as
friends. Several of these memories were
revived on Monday night, Bubba’s last
night in Lexington. As we sat at the bar
in The Bone, story after story would
pour forth from the mouths of myself
and my other fraternity brothers who
showed up to see Bubba off. Neil the
bartender even presented Bubba with a
complimentary T-shirt. Like I said,
Bubba is a popular guy.

At 2:30 a.m., I decided that it was
time to say my final goodbye. I thought
we would both cry after we passed
each other our fraternity handshake,
perhaps for the last time. As I walked
away, Bubba called out after me, his
last words reflecting our big brother/
little brother relationship that had car-
ried on from my freshman year until
now.

“Don’t do anything bad while I’m
gone, Tom,” he said. Even in our final
moments together, Bubba was still try-
ing to be the big brother I never had. I
left the bar that night feeling like I had
left something behind.

Bubba has, for me, always fulfilled
the characteristics of a true friend. He
always thought of those who were close
to him before he thought of himself.
He gave me support in everything that
I did. He helped me in celebrating my
victories and consoled me after my
defeats.

1 will misslameson Jared Leonardi.
"Washington and Lee just won’t be the
same withouthim. I will miss his boom-
ing voice, his firm handshake and his
warm smile. But Itake comfort in know-
ing that wherever he is, someone is
enjoying his company. Good luck
Bubba. I trust that one day you will
find your way home, wherever that
may be. Bubbas always do.

Student blasts republican letter

to
To the Editor:

It is, of course, a pleasure to see not only a
member, but an avowed representative of one’s ideo-
logical opposition simultaneously expose both his
ignorance and the ugliest faces of his group’s beliefs
in a public forum. Thus was it with satisfaction that
I aad College Republican Spokesman Paul Wright’s

remarkable letter to the Phi last week.

Mr. Wright prefaced his correspondence with a
quote from, and at this I could not suppress a pained
pang of laughter, Herbert Spencer. I strongly suspect
and genuinely hope that Mr. Wright is not familiar
with Herbert Spencer and his ideas. Spencer was
pqibably the most vicious social Darwinist of the

19th century.

He opposed any form of state action in the inter-
est of public amelioration and celebrated gross in-
equalities of wealth as just the outcome of competi-
tion among essentially unequal classes of men. He
was a racist hostile towards the most brutally ex-
pkiited members of industrializing America. It is

interesting that Mr. Wright is either ignorant enough
of his nation’s history and Herbert Spencer’s role in
it, or perhaps just deranged enough in his interpreta-
tion of Spencer’s legacy, to proudly introduce his
letter with a sampling from Spenceﬂsi vinfamo.us~.
work. Yet perhaps an expression of reverence, how-
ever intentional, for reactionary, obsolete and even
primitive social thought ought to be expected from a

Republican.

W&L and American culture
stifle diversity

To the Editor:

W&L has been doing a lot of talking
about diversity these days. We’ve been
wondering why there is not more of it
on this campus.

While part of the problem is un-
dQubtedly the group mentality encour-
aged by many Greek associations, the
real problem is cultural. Ours is a cul-
ture primed toward fitting in. having
the right clothes, cars, credit cards.
Open-mindedness and diversity are
simply pretty phrases we like to trot out
oCcasionally.

This lack of real appreciation for
diversity, this prejudice against the
unusual manifests itself in our treat-
ment of foreign students. In general
foreigners are looked at as if they were
members of a freak show. We trot them
qit in the catalog to prove our hetero-
geneity; we grill them for information
that might be of use; then we leave
them on the wayside. Socially very few
people really attempt to include them,
to befriend them. I even know of sev-
eral incidents in which foreigners were
qienly mocked at parties. Worse still,
some of ourprofessors pointedly dis-
courage them. Professors, by refusing
to provide synonyms or fill in cultural
gaps, punish foreigners for their lack of

knowledge concerning US-culture.

Last year I spent a year abroad. I
found the people both in Germany and
in France to be warm and of good
intent. When I made social blunders or
did not understand questions, every
effort was made to aid me.

I became fully incorporated into the
society, while being allowed to be
myself. Sitting in this school, contem-
plating the attitudes of many of my
fellow Americans, I long to relinquish
my citizenship. I am ashamed, morti-
fied!

Where do we come off with our
arrogance?! It can not be our economic
prowess. No, the national debt and the
abuses of many of our third world-
based companies have destroyed that.
It cannot be our educational system.
No, our high-schoolers ran far behind
those of most industrial countries.

This year part of “The Foreign Stu-
dent” will be filmed here. lsn’t it about
time we accepted foreign students as
people with whom to share experi-
ences, ideas, aspirations? Let us revive
the American dream of a melting pot,
in which all peoples and cultures con-
tribute to create a masterpiece.

Kathryn Noel Barbour, ’93

‘ Students keep library
going during storm

To the Editor:

9 I’d like to publicly express my ap-
preciation to students Molly Apter,
Andy Bidwell, Robin Bryant, Kandice
Durden, Heather Edwards, Brandon
Neblett and Scott Sulamn, and to li-
brary staff members Richard Tanson
and Vaughan Stanley for maintaining
the library’s regularly scheduled ser-

vices over this past snowy weekend. I
was reminded very forcefully again
how valuable our student assistants are
to the library’s ongoing business.

My heartiest thanks to all of you
hearty souls!

Barbara Brown
University Librarian

The thrust of Mr. Wright’s letter reveals hypoc-
risy and moral bankruptcy typical of Republicanism
as he struggles to assert that the United States has no
responsibility to take any action in order to aid other
nations or peoples that places American lives in
danger. First of all, this entire tendency for one to
classify human life by nationality and ascribe su-
preme value to the lives to his own countrymen,
though a foible common to all nations, is one espe-
cially rampant within the Republican Party, where
Americanism, at least outside the fundamentalist
wing, becomes a secular religion. (Perhaps we all

ought to move instead toward an attitude of global
cooperation that will serve humanity's interest.)
Second, in light of Mr. Wright’s apparent explica-
. tion of Republicarrprinciplesre gardin g international
.involvement, l.m,ust,wonder wlty hisiformer leader
George Bush waged war in the Persian Gulf, placing
thousands of American lives at risk while justifying
American action as a crusade “to liberate the people

of Kuwait.” Was President Bush an idealistic ren-

digress.

egade whose presidential policies boldly defied Re-
publican principles of national self interest? Or could
it be that Bush lacked both the courage and the
honesty to tell his nation that the war had little to do
with liberation and everything to do with oil? I

Most notable of all was Wright’s negative stance
towards American assistance in international relief
efforts. Only a Republican could use the words
“idealistic” and “humanitarian” in the pejorative.

Justin Peterson, ’94

Film Society

The W&L Film Society will
present “Zentropa” at 8:05 p.m. on
Friday and Saturday in
theTroubadour Cinema. As always,
there is no charge for admission and
everyone is encouraged to attend.

Party

The FreshmanLeadershipCoun-
cil is having a band party in the Pit
featuring W&L’s own “Bit Posse”
Saturday from 9 p.m. to midnight.

Lecture

Jack Jordan, senior vice presi-
dent of Bethlehem Steel, and Casey
Nolan, partner with Ernst & Young,
will present a forum on the steel and
healthcare industries tonight at7:30
p.m. in room 327 of the Commerce
School. The forum will include a
question-and-answer session and is
open to the public.

Lost

A grey Harris tweed overcoat
was lost at the Fancy Dress Ball coat
check. If you have information,
please call John at 464-4566 (Law
Carrell 210).

Elections

Elections for Executive Com-
mittee class representatives, class
officers and the constitutional refer-
endum will be Monday.

 

General Notes are compiled by Matt Haar.

AIDS

The W&L chapter of the Na-
tional Lawyers’ Guild is sponsor-
ingan AIDS symposium on April 1.
The event will be held from 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall, and will feature a panel
discussion followed by a question-
and-answer session with audience
members. All members of the W&L
community interested in the legal
and social rarniﬁcations of the dis-
ease are encouraged to attend.

Blood Drive

The American Red Cross Blood
Drive, sponsored by Chi Psi frater-
nity, will be Wednesday from ll
a.m. to 5 p.m. in Doremus Gym. If
you have questions please call Bait
Sterling at 463-9327.

Kitten

The cutest kitten - FREE! A
seven-month-oldRussianTabbyfe-
male. Spayed, declawed, comes
with litter box, food and water dish,
litter, and food. If interested, please
call 464-4130.

Republicans

The College Republicans will
meet Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the
Mock Convention office. The de-
bate topic will be base closings.

Talkback

The Phi needs someone to do
Talkback starting spring term. Any-
one interested should call Fran at
463-8581.

mended by Dean Manning.

remainder of this year.

Student Body Notice

.1. A freshman male was found in violation of University conduct
standards because of his second offense of having alcohol in the dormito-
ries. His sanction from II1ﬂ.Il-1I¢§.Qf§IUd.§DI,IIQI1§IJ18iS.a $50 fine and 12
hours of community ser,v,ic.e..;The.SCC sanctioned him robe on conduct
probation for the remainder of the _year_. M A H j

2. Another freshman male received the same sanction for his second
offense of having alcohol in the dormitories. In addition to the same
sanction as above, he will also have a session with Dr. Worth, as recom-

3. Two freshman males received sanctions of three hours of community
servic each, for having disturbed the peace of a neighbor in an ungentlemanly
manner by breaking her window. After having apologized to the other
person involved, and helping to restore damages, both men will be on
conduct probation for the remainder of the year.

4. A junior male was found in violation of university standards for
urinating in the hallway of an apartment building. His sanction is that he
write a letter of apology to the apartment resident, that he perform six hours
of community service, and that he be on conduct probation for the

Greek system can crush individuality

MY VIEW
By Andrew Cohen

I swallowed the Greek bait, hook, line, and
sinker. People said, “Going Greek is a good
experience. You get to meet people, you have a
body of brothers /sisters so close they’ll do any-
thing for you, you have leadership opportunities,
and besides, the social scene here is so Greek-
based, you’ve got to do it.”

Nothing could be further from the truth.

I joined a fraternity and served as its vice-
president and public-relations chair. I was elected
by the presidents of the fraternities to the
Interfratemity Council Executive Board, where I
served until my deactivation in the spring of 1992.
I do not speak from a disenfranchised perspective,
but rather as someone who experienced the “es-
sence” of the system.

It is also important that I am honest about my
reasons for leaving. I left not because of any moral
awakening, but because I could barely stay sober
long enough to write my name. This was my

problem, not the system’s. Yet my time away from .

Greek life has led me to realize that while in the
system, there is a tendency to forget the “kind of
person” you think you are, in favor of the inclina-
tions of the herd.

As a first—year student, I came to Bucknell
University berating my parents for their interfer-
ence in my life. I was my own person, not their
juvenile, dependent son. I came to school eager to
experience my individuality for the first time. Yet,
within a few months, the burden was too great, and
I sought refuge in the acceptance of a group.

I said that I was only going to rush. But it was
so enticing. People seemed to like me. With no
more than a beer in hand and an hour or so of small
talk in common, I decided that they were going to
be my best friends.

From the very first, the things that were me, that
were pointedly Andrew Cohen, that comprised my
very soul, began to die. The physical pain of being
paddled bare-assed was, at that point in my life,
indescribable. Some “pops” (older fraternity mem-
bers picked as big brothers for pledges) and their
“sons” never talked after that night. But I learned
that silence was precious. I did not let out a peep,
and the brothers “respected that,” many shook my

hand. That made it all worth it. I was proud of my
welts, they were a badge of courage.

However, it was the psychological torture dur-
ing pledging that really broke me. I was expected
to sit in silence when I saw things that make me sick
to my stomach. When brothers senselessly decried
my very being, made me feel inhuman, I had to
suck it up, to let go of my thoughts, to ignore them,
to become numb. This was a hard lesson for me to
swallow, and I voiced objections. I even men-
tioned the word “hazing,” as I was told to do at an
anti—hazing program we had been required to at-
tend. I found out from an officer of the house that
I was not being hazed because I could disassociate
myself at any time.

It was too late. My
identity was bound into

take it, everyone would take it. Never in my year
and a half as an active member did I hear anyone
really stand up against sexism during the hundreds
of times that it occurred. I did not pride myself as
a sexist, but it was just so damn funny, everyone
roared with approving laughter.

I always thought I was the “kind of person” who
deplored racism. Yet, when a small group got
together and began making racist remarks, my
courage had disappeared like the welts. Dumb
silence pervaded my psyche. I did not know what
to say, how to say it. Everyone was having such a
good time, how could I spoil it?

Frequently, Jews were the target of disparaging
remarks. While the anger rose within me, I shut up

and smiled. Now it

the group. So I learned to

was my so-called
“people.” How could

ignore myself. One of
the brothers told me that
it was a simple psycho-
logical process whereby
the individual is broken
down only to be built up

Students need not be slaves to
the system. Students can change
the way things are. If they do not
validate the system, it will cease
to rule a university’s social cli-

there be “my people”
when there was no me?

So it was that I for-
got myself. My inse-
curity had been filled
by theethos of the herd.

as a member of the group. m ate.

I was now a leader of

It worked.

By the end of “Hell
Week,” I had discarded any remnants of myself as
an individual and rather began to enjoy my debase-
ment. I was so excited that I would soon become
a member and there would be others for me to
terrorize. By the next year, I had become what I
had held in contempt. ,

I miss my friends from my first year at Bucknell.
After pledging, it was never the same. Paradoxi-
cally, my social opportunities were enlarged and
shrunken all at once. I had an instant group of
friends called brothers. But everyone outside of
the group was somehow not as good as those in it.
Social options immediately became limited by a
set of letters.

As a brother, little changed. I ceased to be a
thinker, if I ever was one. I was always busy

jumping on the bandwagon or trying to lead one.
But as for doing anything for myself, that was
impossible; myself had long since left. The silence
I had learned as a pledge took a turn for the worse;
I put on my mask and joined the masses.

It was really no one's fault. An opening for a
sexist remark or act would occur, someone would

the system. I wrote
scathing newspaper
stories against those who opposed it. And I made
the thing look so beautiful on paper that no one
would dare write the libel you are reading. I wrote
letters praising “our diverse brotherhood which
maintains a close-knit unity.” All the while, my
experience told a very different story.

I do not believe that Greeks are bad people. The
majority of my close friends are Greek. But I do
think that the system encourages people to value
their membership in the group above their indi-
viduality and sense of self, which makes it easy for
people to become foreign to themselves.Students
need not be slaves to the system. Students can
change the way things are. If they do not validate
the system, it will cease to rule a university's social
climate. People will be able to transcend the herd
mentality to embark upon genuine relationships
that are supportive of their individuality. Such a
decision takes a lot of courage, though, a lot more
than I had during my time in a fraternity.

Excerpted and reprinted with permission of
Andrew Cohen from the the Bucknellian, Bucknell
University

 

By ANDREA COBRIN
Phi Staff Writer

Hey y'all! Does a country dance sound like fun tonight?

The Blue Ridge Boot Scooters, a local country dancing
club, sure think it does.

And a lot of Washington and Lee students do too.

“It's something different than what is [usually offered],”
junior Jimmy Kull said.

Kull, assistant country music director for WLUR, said
that because big bands are no longer popular, more people
want to dance to countr'y music.

“Country dancing is our generation’s type of ballroom
dancing,” Kull said.

The Boot Scooters give dance lessons every Thursday
night at the Ramada Inn. Line dances are taught from 6 to 7
p.m. and couples dancing is taught from 7 to 8 p.m. The cost
is $5 per person to dance for both hours.

The classes are open to people of all ages. Club member
Cheryl Link saidpeople as young as 12 and as old as 60 come
to learn line dances.

Link, who teaches the classes, said first-time dancers are
welcome.

“You just need to know how to count to four and have a
little bit of coordination,” Link said.

Link encouraged W&L students to come out on Thurs-
day nights to give country dancing a try. ‘

If enough students showed interest in learning to dance,
Link said the club would be happy to teach a clinic on
campus just for W&L students. The Boot Scooters have
taught three lessons this year at the Southern Virginia
College for Women.

Junior Sarah Smith said she was interested in seeing
more country bands play at W&L.

“If more people were involved and knew how to dance,
more country bands might come to W&L,” Smith said.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

FEATURES

Plays offer

By Joyce Baulista
Phi Features Editor

Student talent will not be limited to acting on center stage
of the Johnson Theatre later this month. Four advanced
directing students will present four plays, including an
original work by senior Richard Cassone.

“[I‘he play is] a
comedy about a
guy who gets in-
volved with a
woman who plays
him for a fool,”
Cassone said. “The
play is one big
laugh. You sit-
down and laugh.
And two hours later
you leave laugh-
ing.”

His play, titled
“Say I Love You,
But Whisper,” is
full—lengthandwas
funded by the bud-
get allotted to the

. ymtnu

SAY I LOVE YOU, BUT W HISPER

written and directed

by
Richard Cassone

M_,,,,3:,‘w . ' Ialti'lsonTht-.ilr9

 

mm“ 1 ’ . 1' ’ I ms mu-i
“Festival of One— .  -as 
Acts.” '
“I was lucky

[the theatre department] let me direct a play that I wrote,”
Cassone said.

He said this is the first play he has directed but not the first
play he was written that has been performed. Last spring his

   

I

array of performances

play, titled “The Garden of Sweden”
was performed in the Johnson The-
atre.

This year, however, Cassone is
able to fully develop his original vi-
sion from paper to the stage.

“I was originally worried about
casting [the play] but I have had no
problems,” he said.

However, junior Heather Aussiker
said she encountered several obstacles
directing George Brewster’s play
“Dreams of Glory.”

“It was hard getting one vision and
conveying it to the actors and design-
ers,” she said. Aussiker described
“Dreams” as a play in which the char-
acters come to the revelation about
being happy with their lives.

“‘Dreams of Glory’ is about not
having regrets or questions about your
past,” she said. “It is about never
saying, ‘What if.”’

Another obstacle she said she encountered was making
decisions and acting upon them.

“If I had to do it over again, I would go back and have
more confidence from day one,” she said.

Aussiker said one difficulty with actors involved making
them look middle—aged without the use of make-up but
simply through their actions.

“I have confidence in my actors,” she said. “Opening
night it’s out of my hands and up to my actors to see them
through.”

Junior Roseanne Combrooks said the biggest obstacle
she encountered was positioning
the actors on stage and coordinat-
ing their movements.

“I feel kind of bad for the actors
because I’ve changed my mind so
many times,” Combrooks said.

Like Aussiker and Cassone,
Combrooks is a first—time direc-
tor. She_._will present Aaron
Sorkin’s“HiddenInThisPicture.”

“The artists in this play make a
really strong statement about keep-
ing artistic integrity in a money-
driven world,” she said.

Cornbrooks hopes the play
gives the audience something to

A take home and think about.

“It’s a fun play, but there is a
message,” she said.

Senior Erin Walsh made her

Reuben (left, senior Broderick Grady) and film director Robert (right,
senior Troy Hill) on the location of a movie in Aaron Sorkin‘s “Hidden

in This Picture.”

directorial debut earlier this year
with the production of “Miss
Julie.” For her second directorial
production, Walsh chose Tennes-
see Williams’ play “Talk to Me

Publicity Photo

 
   

    

Publicity Photo

In a scene from “Dreams of Glory,” Ginger (junior Jennifer Ray), Bill
(senior Hank Huff) and Ada (senior Erin Walsh) tensely wait to hear
the news from George (junior Jeff Miklta).

Like the Rain and Let Me Listen . . .”

She said the characters in Williams’ play seem to be more
like shadow people rather than bold characters with defini-
tive dreams and motivations.

“They both need to escape but neither of them can ,”
she explained. “The woman dreams, the man drinks, and
they always find themselves together in the end.”

The “Festival of One-Acts” will run from March 24 -26
at 8 p.m. nightly. Cassone’s play opens March 28 at 8 p.m.

PUbIicity Photo
The woman (sophomore Elizabeth Weaver) and
man (senior James Elliot) from “Talk to Me Lﬂte
the Rain and Let Me Listen . .  are confined to
their room and each other.

  

    

     

0’ '
Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller:
a full Macintosh line for all your needs.

H  1 ?  rt  in a   O

O - I 0 g Q

9

U
, it

me nezi'A/Jple T/Jejiezl‘ Apple
Macintosh Color Classic. /llzicﬂzlos/.2 Cen/ris‘ 610. Mdclﬁiat/J LC 1/1.
Right now, your Apple Campus Reseller has the most affordable new for even more power, the Macintosh Centris” 610. See these new coinputeis B " ,,
line of full-featured Macintosh“ computers ever. There’s the Apple” Macintosh today at your Apple Campus Reseller Where you’ll get special student pricing,
Color Classic“ — a solid performer at a remarkable price. The Macintosh aswell as service during college? And experience the power of Macintosh. ‘
LC III, which runs'50% faster than its top-selling predecessor, the LC 11. And, The power more college students choose. The power to be your best. . V
For further information visit the Computer Center in *
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844
.\'m'ii'utrrilmlu/ileI;II[l'_/511/):,1/yr/(I(kl/Iyluxlfitw//i'I:rulrit'lrmi‘.-l/yilu.Iii//In/'i:ril.\i'i'rii'i'/’m/‘/imzr (<3/‘ll/_)’.l/I/7/i’ (.llI7//71//{'I' /ui lll i'i_gi/I/.x /'L’\l'7'Il‘(/ I/A/l/in ///l‘ I/7/r/ii/quit lIi/./ii/u.</>i/m/ /77¢‘ /m/rm’ In /)1‘ mm‘ /)(‘.\'/ NH‘7'([QI.V/t‘H‘1//I?/I/(’I1I[II'i{\'II/V.l/VI/I’(.llI}ﬂ”I//(’If/Ill". I/1/i'ii/liirb (,'iwlI'/.\’ I.\' (I /VH1/(’III1[I'i’ o/ .i/‘/',l' UIII]/III/(’l' //l(' f71l\\I( ix.1Ii",ix/iim///iiihv//i/i'i'/iiimii//u l/2/rlrii w/in/i-r /in ‘

 

 

In
...uu......

  

\

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

   

FEATURES

 

Senior’s sci—fi story sells

5 By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Staff Writer

Friff Carale escapes his home world
andjoins a major operation whose mis-
sion is the empirical search for God on
a molecular level.

. Sound like the beginning of a great
science fiction novel?

It’s the basis of “Overmind,” W&L
senior Bill Coffin’s novel, and he’s just
signed a contract to have it published.

Coffin said that he received the con-
tract a week ago.

§He anticipates that editing will be-
gin in a month, and the book will be in
print within a year.

“It was impressive how fast they
replied,” Coffin said of the publishing
company. “The book was only on the
market for six months. I got very
lrtky.”

Coffin said thatthe publisher, KAV,
a subsidiary of Trillium Press, plans to
market the book to schools for students

. age 10-18.

“It really doesn't surprise me that
they’re targeting younger readers.
'IEat’s the age when I started reading
science fiction. That's when people
start getting interested in reading,” he

said. “Most of what I write is more
accessible to younger readers. A lot of
it is kind of comic book—ish.”

Coffin said he has been writing for

finished it last winter term.”

Coffin, an English major and re-
cipient of last year’s Mahan Creative
Writing Award for Junior Prose, said

years. he has been told that he is one of the
“In high first students in
school I wrote the English de-
and drew comic partment to be
books. I wrote published as an
my first book undergraduate.
during my Coffin said
freshman year he talked with
here.” English Profes-
He said he sor Dabney
came up with Stuart to begin
the idea for the publication
“Overmind” process.
during fresh- Stuart gave
man year. him names of
“I was bored people to con-
in English class tact.
and I came up He also
with the idea. I looked up pub-
started writing lishing compa-

furiously — the
professor was
happy because he thought I was taking
notes.

“I spent that year working on the
conceptual side, characters and plot. I
wrote all during sophomore year win-
ter term, and rewrote what I had and

 

Coffin

nies in refer-
ence journals.

Coffin said he sent the manuscript
to three publishers, and one immedi-
ately sent him a contract.

“My brother opened the mail and
read the opening of the contract to me
over the phone. I was sure he was

playing a really cruel joke.”

Coffin said he thought the book
might get published eventually, but he
expected it to take four to five years.

“The euphoria hasn’t worn off yet.
The publication of this book is my
greatest dream come true.”

Coffin said he will continue to write
science fiction.

‘‘I’m kind of addicted to reading and
writing science fiction.”

Frank Herbert’s “Dune” and Wil-
liam Gibson’s “Neuromancer” are two
of his favorite science fiction novels.

He cited Herbert and Gibson as his
major influences, and Robert Heinlein
and J .R.R. Tolkien as favorite authors.

“They profoundly influenced what
I write and how I write it,” he said.

Coffin said he will make writing a
well-paying hobby, but doesn’t plan
on making it his main source of in-
come.

His advice to aspiring writers: “Al-
ways keep writing. Check your ego at
the door concerning criticism. And
never ever give up. Persistence is the
one key attribute to becoming a pub-
lished writer.”

Coffin called himself an anomaly,
saying, “It’s been an extraordinarily
easy path thus far.”

lforum celebrates ‘Women’s History Month’

By Joyce BAUTISTA
Phi Features Editor

Following the hype generated by
November’s election it seems appro-
pliate that Women's Forum celebrates
“The Year of the Woman” in a library
display honoring “Women’s History
Month.”

“We [Women’s Fonrm] sirnplywant
the,W&L student body to be aware of
issues that pertain to women,” senior
SbannonComer, presidentofWomen’s
Forum, said. ’

Comersaidthedisplayof books and
articles is to increase recognition of
women’s accomplishments in the last
year and to heighten awareness of
women’s issues.

“It was not a coincidence that
‘ exual Assault Awareness Week’ co-
incides with ‘Women’s History

I
.1

Month,” Comer said.

Women's Forum is working in con-
junction with the Health Education
Committee, the Dean of Students Of-
fice and the Rockbridge Area Coali-
tion Against Sexual Assault
(RACASA) to educate the campus on
sexual assault issues. Human sexuality
educator at George Mason University
Ron Campbell will speak tonight at 8
p.m. in the Keller Theatre.

Comer said other activities in honor
of “Women‘s History Month” included
a seminar concerning W&L’s relation-
ship with the area’s women’s colleges
and another seminar about W&L
women in student government.

This Friday the group will sponsor
a retreat at Skylark for all interested
women.

“We just want the student body to
think about women’s issues,” Comer
said. “That’s all you can ask.”

.....-. - ...,.

 

 

Photo by Mallory Meyers, The Ring-tum Phi

The display of books and articles in the library is sponsored by
women’s Forum. Items range from Gloria Steinem’s “The Revolu-
tion From Within” to Susan Faludi’s “Backlash: The Undeclared

War Against American Women.”

THE

5"-I-I-E'*1‘"'3-'-'5'-'-33%-"'-’-'-'-3"“?3}I-}"‘?""'}}}}EE}2-2333"-’-E-I-EEEEEEIIIXXIII....*5C‘!{‘K4€45‘I{€41‘I334!€{{€{€€{{{€€€{{‘!€{{{{‘K€‘K(‘K4€€€‘!‘I€{€€€€€€€€{{‘I‘C{<41-33-Eff€(‘Ki‘E{{{’I€€‘?:{€€€€{‘K’I€€€€€{€€’!}}I-I‘

STUDENT ACTIVITIES OARD

presents

in the Troubadour
Thursday, March 18

at 8 p.m.

Sunday, March 21 at 3 p.m.

& 6 p.m.

2 admission

- AAAAAAAAAAAA

C<I§{§§§§§§§<I§€{€{€§§§§§§{€§§§§§§§§§<§§§§§§€§<€-i{<R§§§§§§§€§§§€§§§§§§§§€§Csiéﬁi§€<2C§§%§§§§§§§§§§§§§€§§§{§§§§§§§€§§§§§§§§§§€§§§§§KKQ<2§§§§K§<2{R§§§§§§§§§§§§{§€§§§§§§§§§§§§§<<<<<<<<<<§<§§§§§<§<€€§-its

 
 

..AAAA.s.AAAA.AAAAAa..n

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Trudge
5 Saintly auras
10 Type of rug
14 Old name of
Ireland
15 Happening
16 Sheep's coat
17 Small weight
18 Lasso
19 Hebrides island
20 Vendor
22 Repaired
24 Control strap
25 Ran
26 Bless. in a way
29 School books

 

33 Leans
34 Tried to steal a
base
35 One of the five
lakes
36 Senator
Kennedy
37 Large land
4 m t drink _ uno Ia rvvees. nc.
0 2°'§""9s owes me Med’ Se ' I 03/13/93
41 High cards All Rights Reserved
43 atgcggtnt Last Week's Answers:
44 Put in a carton 7 Slender
46 Traitor 6 Can. prov.
48 Hangs over 9 Cattle rush
49 Large number 10 Cheat
50 Increased 11 Head covering
amount 12 Superior
51 Fight against 13 Happy
54 Able to read and 21 Taste or smell
write 23 Long fish
56 Verve 25 Malice
59 Silly 26 Flower essence
61 Blue duck 27 Sister's
62 Marine growth daughter
63 Original 28 Ancient
64 Makes mistakes 29 Blackboard
65 Look at 30 Rub out
66 Lawn material 31 Passenger
67 Lavish affection 32 Gardener's
need
DOWN 34 Cram for an
1 Wooden nails exam
2 Money in Milan 38 Not quite upright 48 Inns 53 Wise one
3 Spoken 39 Game outcome 50 Underground 54 Volcanic output
4 Bad conduct 42 Educational workplaces 55 Flying prefix
mark meeting 51 Harvest 56 Sour
5 Solitary person 45 Prevented 52 French 57 Otherwise
6 Relating to birds 47 Fuel magazine 60 Neither‘s mate

  

Sforza predicts Hitler’s next thrust

50 years ago in the Phi-“Hitler’s nextthrust will probably be at Spain
and Portugal," Count Carlo Sforza predicts one week before he
leaves Washington and Lee to continue his 20-day lecture series. The
series is sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation for International

Peace.

Five years ago in the Phi — The Kresge Foundation awards W&L a
$600,000 challenge grant toward construction of the university’s
Center for the Performing Arts. W&L has now received $6 million in
gifts ‘or gift commitments for the $9 million project.

4
l
l
l

Your Ad Could Be Here. a
Call Benjy at 463-8581

UNFORTUNATEIX THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

0 I993 Thu-b¢r.r Iruumnr: and/innuily A.r./arialion/Calleyt Rtlirtrnori Fquitier Fund

A /

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs.
SRAs not only ease your current tax-

money you don’t send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference

in your quality oflife.

What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choices—from the

guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of

bite, they offer a remarkably easy way

to build retirement income—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security benefits may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on
your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the

system.

happy returns.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

CREF's variable annuity--all backed
by the nation's number one retirement

Why write offthe chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAs can help you enjoy many

Beneﬁt nalvﬁmn tax  Call our SRA botliue 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.

 

  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1 8, 1993 «

Constitutional Referendum
March 22-23, l993

Cape Cod House for Rent - One or
Two Year Lease. Locatedon Rt.‘ 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2  4
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,
dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

 EXCELLENT
   EX_TRA“INCOMlE NOW! 4
'2 ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week -
5 Free Details: SASE to

   
   

  TGIF

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
merchandise from America’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters —
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
703-463-9730

W&L Art N

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “RE. Lee"

Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee, Jr.
M. Miley John Letcher

'Edward Valentine

w&L copperplate. hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron ’.l‘un1son.
Mary and George Washington P130535

iiiﬁiiiiuiuiuls
lilllllllll

4 East Washington Street Open Monday — Saturday

7

 

International Inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

*rent in ‘downtown’Lexington, just a very short walk from

Apartment for Rent

Catering to W&L Students — Two—bedroom apartment for

the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom. $300 per
month for the unit. I
— Great Location '
——- Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
— Landlord Pays for Water, Including Hot Water

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown,
at 463-3013.

 

    
 
   
  

  aPPo9ia9-Q0‘

All Winter Merchandise
23 N. Main St. 5 0% 0/7

Lexinton, VA 24450

Cannondalc - K - Diamon B - it
J ansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

' 130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

   
 
 

\  

 

(703) 463-5988

      

A  \

        

453-7969

Valley ,7iae"I/z&az

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.—6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Lexington, VA 24450 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

kkwoal 464-6464 jj

    

 Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable “ 
 1/2 Rack- $5.99 Whole rack- $10.95  
 Saturday Night Prime Rib , 
 _ Queen cut $11.95 King cut $13.95 Truck stop 5
 Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

 4 miles North on Route 11

£55, We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell

 -'=-:#;5:-'-:-:-'-:- ;_.;.   . _ - - - . - - '- - . """"""""""""""""""" "

 

SUCCESS.
GET AN EDGE ON COLLEGE EXPENSES.

The Army can help you get an edge
on college expenses in just two years.

When you enlist and qualify for a
certain skill, you could become eligible
for the Montgomery GI Bill Plus the
Army College Fund. That means you
could earn $17,000 for college with
a two—year enlistment.

And the Army will give you
another edge, too. You’ll develop
the self-discipline, self-conﬁdence and maturity you’ll
need to succeed in college.

Find out more about how you can get $17,000 for
college in just two short years. Call your local Army
Recruiter for more information today.

Call (703)463-2166

ARMY
BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

 
     
 

-I

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
All-U-Can Eat $4.99 at
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99 , '

 
     

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1993

Harrismeter

MEANS LOW pmcrs

REDUCED PRICE

&
MAHI MAHI 
~ FILLETS

99

LB.

MORE THAN 70% LEAN

' IANY sizr PKG.

GROUND FRESH - ‘\
SEVERAL TIMES DAILY

    
    

   

FRESH

GROUND
BEEF  LB.

19

  

GOLDEN ..
nuns B“-,,-,-;.,,.,,-59
BANANAS

_LB.
.  O

 

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

 99

O
PEPSI
- A
v

  
 

REDUCED
PRICE

 
 
 

REGISTERTO WIN IN
HARRIS TEETERS

FLY WITH ‘THE

-I-HORN ETS

SWEEPSTAKES

You Could Win One Of These Fabulous
Prizes. See Details And Register At The
Coke Display In Your Harris Teeter.

: One Of Ten Trips For Two To Orlando
Florida For The Game With Orlando
Magic, Includes Air Fare On U.S. Air
Accommodations And Game Tickets.

0 One Of Ten Trips For Two To Charlotte,
0 N.C. For A Hornets Home Game. Includes
Game Tickets & Hotel Accommodations.

0 One Month Of Free MCI Lon Distance Air
Service. Call I-800-274-70 0 For More Details
On How To Win.

0 One Pair OI Hornets Tickets Will Be Given Away
I In Each Harris Teeter For March/April Games.

Find Details And Register At The Coke
Display In Your Nearby Harris Teeter.

   

lO¢ OFF LABEL - REGULAR LIQUID

CLORO

X .68
BLEACH ........... ..l 28 oz.

CREAMY OR EXTRA CRUNCHY 
JIF PEANUT 2
BUTTER ......................... ..28 oz.

KRAFT ORIGINAL

MACARONI & CHEESE

DINNER ........... ..7.25 oz. 0 5 5

ADC OR P/R I

  

FOLGERS
COFFEE ......... ..l 3 oz. BAG
SLICED TO ORDER
SMOKED TURKEY
BREAST

99

IN THE DELI-
BAKERY

LB.

 

CROWLEY GOLD COLLECTION
FROZEN YOGURT
OR ICE CREAM

99

HALF
GAL.

A

 

WHITE RAIN
HAIR CARE
PRODUCTS

is/'itt§falr'l'a’s
4- I5 OZ.

Prices Effective Through March 23, I993

' Prices In This Ad Eilective Wednesday, March l7 Through Tuesday, March 23, I993.

in Lexington stores

Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept reuetul . .. . .;I0lTIpS.

Women get their own
IM athletic program

Canfield says ‘potential is unlimited’

By Mou.v Arman
Phi Staff Writer

Two-thirds of the student body are
currently involved in the intramural
program.

Butallof those stu-
dents are male.

“We are servicing
the needs of only part
of the student body,”
IM director Verne
Canﬁeld said.

That’s about to
change. Women’s IM
volleyball opens the
door for the four so-
rorities and a team of
independent women
to compete against one another in ath-
letic events.

At the moment, only the four sorori-
ties on campus, Pi Beta Phi, Kappa
Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega and Kappa
Alpha Theta, and the team of indepen-
dents participate in the program.

 

I M an eld

Junior Phil McCoy, the student head
of the IM program, says there have
been efforts to include the women from
the law school.

“I ’ve asked three law school women,
but have gotten no reply,” McCoy said.
“The student in charge
of the men’s law
school IM teams says
the women would like
to do it, but I haven’t
heard anything.

“We could have
two leagues of three
teams each[if the law
school women partici-
pate]. It would be bet-
ter,” McCoy added.

The IM volleyball
tournament was held
last week. Not to take out any of the
tension, but Kappa AlphaTheta has the
enviable distinction of being crowned
the champion in the first-ever IM event
for women.

Theta entered the championship
game against Kappa with an impres-

sive 4-0 mark. Kappa came into the
match with a not-so-shabby mark of 3-
1. But Theta proved to be too much,
takingthechampionshipbeltbyacount
of two games to one.

Aside from the athletic competi-
tion, some women see intramurals as a
way to help relations among W&L
women.

“It’s a good chance to get to know
independent women and women in
other sororities,” said Chi O’s Bethany
Smith. “It’s a chance to play some
sports and have a good time.”

McCoy wants to continue the
women’s IMs into the spring, while
Canﬁeld is developing plans to expand
the program next year.

“Next year I’d like to have five or
six events,” Canfield said. “Teams
could accumulate points and there
would be an end-of-the-year overall
champ.”

“I’vc always been in favor of [a
women’s IM programl,” Canfield
added. “lt’s all about participation. Its
potential is unlimited.”

   

    

 of Nightmares   

Photo by Darren Winslow, The R/‘ng—tum PIT!

of the Century.

That's exactly what It's been for coaches trying reschedule all the games wiped out by the Storm

._.. . 

Break:
CANCUN, NASSAU
from $299
Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

ring

Assistant
Business
Managers,
Ad Manager,
and Circulation
Manager

for

The Ring—tum Phi
Call Kevin Roddey
463-7922

UNO

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

MTen— W&L 9,Nazareth 0 (2-1)
WTen- W&L 5,Nazareth 4 (5-2)
T&F— (M) W&L 78,B’water 62 (1-0)

PAGE8g

S

Cilia ifxing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK&FlELD

 
  
   

E-ei!6i:—S\y21v.%9e|§1:e: an (2) 1 pm

MLax— Lynburg /18 3pm; G’burg 3/21 2
WLax- at RC 3/ l8 (tent.) g
MTen-Kerﬁyon 3/19 3;Wooster 3/20 10a
WTen— at, ’water 3/ 18;Kenyon 3/ 19 3pm
Golf— at Roanoke/ODAC Invit. 3/18

T&F— (M&W) W&L Invit.

MARCH 18, 1993
4..

Weather wreaks havoc with sp

By SEAN O’RoURxE
Phi Sports Editor

There was a commercial on
television when I was growing
up—I think it was for Land—O—
Lakes Margarine——that had the
best closing line in all of com-
mercial history.

It went something like this—-
“It’s notnice to fool with Mother
Nature.”

Well, someone on the East
Coast sure got under ol’ Mother
Nature’s skin because she came
out of her comer this past week-
end slugging.

The Great Storm of ’93, no
pardon me, the Storm of the Cen-
tury dumped more than 16 inches
of snow on Lexington (and most
of the East for that matter) in an
effort to show those she was ag-
gravated with who was boss.

Millions of people suffered
from the storm as did the Wash-
ington and Lee spring schedule.
Eventafter eventwas eitherpost-
poned or canceled; and when the
snow has melted and the flowers
of spring begin to open them-
selves to the invigorating sun,
the spring schedules will still be
suffering the effects of the Storm
of the Century (sounds like a
game show).

Oh where, Oh where dolstart?
I am one man reporting on eight
sports. There’s a logical solu-
tion, alphabetical order.

Baseball-—

Head coach Jeff Stickley
seems to be in the worst position

 

   

of all spring sports coaches.
You’ll find a picture on this page
somewhere of Smith Field, where
the Generals play all their home
baseball games. Granted, the pic-
ture was taken a few days ago,
but you can imagine the amount
of water the field has absorbed in
the past five days.

“We can’t get on the field,”
Stickley said. “A baseball field is
different from a lacrosse field. It
must be playable.” '

Rightnowit’snot, and ithasn’t
been since mid-semester break
when the team went on its annual
Florida adventure.

“Since the Florida trip we’ve
been on the field six days, in total
(that includes practices, games,
scrimmages).”

For now the team will work
out indoors, and hopefully by
Saturday the field will be in good
enough shape to host the W&L-
Virginia Wesleyan game.

Keep your fingers crossed.

Golfers are sort of like post-
men, they can play through rain,
high winds, scorching heat and
cold temperatures. The one ele-
ment impossible to play through
is snow. Something about a little
white ball and the white snow.

Head W&L golf coach Buck
Leslie has the task of trying to get
his team in enough matches so
they will be ready for their an-

nual run to nationals.

For junior captain Jimmy
Kull, the loss of match-playhurts
them because of their youth.
“It[the weather] most defi-

nitely hurts our golf team be-
cause we are an extremely young
team, with four freshmen play-
ing,” Kull said.

Kull says he thinks the layoff
hurts the freshmen both mentally
and physically, while the more
experienced players will prob-
ably lose their physical edge.

Right now the team’s sched-
ule is up in the air. The matches
planned for this week have been
canceled, and even the one for
Monday is in jeopardy.

Lacrosse—

The real curse for the men’s
and women’s lacrosse teams is
not that their games were post-
poned.The real curse is that both
games werekeytotheirsuccesses
this season.

The men missed their shot at
revenge against Roanoke, while
the women lost a shot at lacrosse
power Salisbury State. After
psyching themselves up to play
well, players on both squads had
to come down and regroup.

The men are set to start the
“second half” of their 1993 sea-
son by disposing of Lynchburg
this afternoon. They” have to
bounce right back because the
Storm of the Century has cut
them a break in the schedule.

The team was to travel to
Gettysburg to take on the highly-
ranked Pennsylvania team. But
the game has been moved to Lex-
ington, either at Wilson Field or
in Buena Vista, for Sunday at 2
p.m.

The women, however, are still
in the dark at to their future plans.

 

The team was set to play at
Roanoke today, but at the time
this story was being written, no
decision had been ‘made on
whether it was a go.

Tennis—-

The W&L tennis teams prob-
ably have the best chance to make
up all the matches that have been
canceled by the foul weather these
past few months.

A tennis court dries relatively .

fast and barring any sort of pre-
cipitation,the teamscan play their
matches.

But this has a drawback,
though. The more matches that
need to be rescheduled, the less
days the teams have to rest. That
could prove costly down the
stretch in terms of physical and
mental sharpness.

Women’s coach Cinda
Rankin says the attitude of her
team has been exemplary.

“They have been excellent
about the erratic practice sched-
ule,” Rankin said. “They all have
an attitude of ‘we have to go
on.”’

Men’s captain Robbie
MacNaughton thinks the team
needs to make up their matches
to improve their chances for the
national tournament.

“It’s[the weather] hurt us in
that we have to play as many
matches as possible to work up
from our low preseason ranking
to have a chance at national,”
MacNaughton said.

Track&Field—

The men’s and women’s out-
door track teams must have plenty

Aside from the small sections of field that appear in the foregrou
there truly was a Smith Field. The Generals baseball team will hav
sun to help dry the field in time for Saturday's game.

 

    
   
    
   
  
   
    
    
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
   
    
    
   
    
   
   
  
  

The only sound that could be heard from the bleachers of Wilson Field wasthat of snow
drifting over the metal seats. The men’s lacrosse team hope to fill those stands on
Sunday when national power Gettysburg pays the Generals a visit. Maybe then the

sound from the bleachers will be t

victory.

of the Irish in them because the
weather has reallyhad no signifi-
cant effect on their schedules.
The men were able in their
first meet of the outdoor season
against Bridgewater before the

 

the weather.

 

Storm of the Century dumped all
the white stuff. But neither team
has missed any meet because of

Both teams were not sched-
uled this week and have a better-

rng sports

hat of rabid W&L fans cheering on their team ‘to

than-average shot at getting the
Second Annual W&L Invita-
tional in on Saturday.

A word to the wise —- don’t
mess with Mother Nature. She
can be really mean. 0

 

Photo by Darren Winslow, The Ring—!um Phi
nd, it would be impossible to tell if
e to hope for sunny skies and awarm

on Saturday.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

way for the women’s team to resume

Photo by Darren Winslow, The Fiing—tum Phi
No aces will be served on courts in this condition. The weather of the past few days have cleared the

play at home. They will try to do so against top-ranked Kenyon

There was some action last week.

The 20th-ranked W&L men’s ten-
nis team easily disposed of Nazareth
on Friday, 9-0. The win upped the
Generals season mark to 2-1.

The Generals lost only one set in
pitching an impressive shutout. The
match was supposed to be a tune-up for
the showdown with regional rival
Emory. But alas, the snow came and
that was that.

Junior

captain (Robbie

MacNaughton, the 29th-rariked player
in Division III, made short work of his
Nazareth opponent, 6-0, 6-3.

The W&L women’s team had to
come from behind against Nazareth to
pick up their ﬁfth win of the season, 5-
4

The Generals were trailing 4-3 with
first doubles and third doubles still
competing. Sophomore Marilyn Baker
and freshman Julie Ayers polished off
their opponents. The third doubles team

of sophomore Melissa Malone and
freshman Helen Chandler won it.

The Generals went 3-0 for the week,
but they played without as many as
three of their top six players. Sopho-
more Cathy Gartin and freshman
Shelley Sunderman missed all three
contests, while Ayers missed the
Hollins match.

The W&L golf team opened their
1993 season with a second-place finish
at the Bridgewater/ODAC Invitational.

The Generals ended the day with a 343,
finishing 21 shots behind Randolph-
Macon’s winning score of 322. Fresh-
man Gam Mattingly led the team with
an 81.

The men’s track and field squad
kicked off their 1993 campaign with a
78-62 win over Bridgewater Friday.

Senior Bo Hannah and freshman
Dax Mahoney paced the Generals with
two wins apiece.

Hannah crossed the tape first in the

l,500- and 5,000-metér runs, while
Mahoney sprinted his way to first-place
finishes in the 200- and 400-meter
dashes.

Finally, the women’s swimming
season was officially completed last
weekend as senior Claire Dudley and
freshman Rebekah Prince eamed All-
American honors.

Prince capped her phenomenal first
season by eamin g first-team honors in
the 100-yard and 200-yard backstroke.

She finished seventh and sixth, respec-
tively. Prince also earned honorable
mention in the 200-IM for her 15th-
place finish. Prince became the secorll
W&L female swimmer to be a three-
time All-American.

Dudley ended her brilliant four years
at W&L by earning honorable mention
All-America honors with her 16th-place
finish in the 200-yard breaststroke. It
was Dudley’s fourth trip to the nationzd
meet.

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS

Three months till summer; do you have a job?

VARNER & POLE

115 S. Main St., Lexington

For your extra pieces of furniture

Furniture Dealers

@

463-2742

rrnrrrr llllllll

 

 

   
  
 
 

Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving Resumes ' C0V6rL€ll6fS' FIYCTS ' CODES ' Binding ,.: i  ""  :
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT Come see us -- we’ll make you look good!  Four Bedroom house for Kent §
nw~Ne1sonsrreex Robbwones E   ..::.t=..a2rs°.;t....s.  f°’ "‘*"‘ S°“°°' yea’ 2
Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022 125 "NELSON STREET ' ' 53 Ca"  5 ’
_ _ ‘ '—Q3:—:Q—'QQQQ——_‘—~QQ::Q—n——ﬁ-
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792ll.PLANTATION.FL 3331 ' d_ _
Now you can have two of the most recognized and I  I tvlSA®/MASTERCARD® Cred“ . £11350 .IwODEot'lCOAR 
acocptcd credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and MastcrCard® I . wan _ . I _ .
credit cards--“In your rrgrgz-;,EVEN ::FDY% vs-£133 3%; lEN' I Cards. Enclosed nnd s 5 which is 100% refundable it not t 23233 :9;~ll;E
HA . TURN . -.
CRED” °' VF . l approved immediately. I TOSHIBA MARANT2
VISAG’ and MastcrCard® the credit cards you I I K5,: CW9
deserve and need for— ID-—BOOKS——DEPARTMENT | NAME | BOSTON Dgpmrnvg
STORES-—TUlTl0N—ENTERTAlNMENT— . , K|_|PscH BAZOOKA
EMERGENCY (msH—TicKE1s—REsT.A.URANrs— ADDRESS _
HOTELS-MOTELS—GAS—-CAR RI-ZNI‘ALS— ' V ' - 3iiEv’E'§Er5‘ai3"r’E'3‘ii‘é7«Pr5t°i®RA” o
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY STATE ._ ZIP ____._ : ; §f§Tsr.§F§;:sSLELR»x‘;g~crE>'»3;zEx§rMe~r
I . ‘
.““(EE“ . PHONE  ' - ‘hIAv§tSS1§ERf¥‘(E:IfRhlg9’:‘/iS3\R;uD‘|2CS2OVER
°" s‘E“c;I9 no credit; _ : SIGNATURE ,, : (300) 453.5657
“sgllaﬁgo  g "0 5eC|"'1t.Y d8D0S1t! NOTE: Masiercaru Ls a register!-cl tradcrrnrk or Masicrcxni lntcmatlornl Inc. Comer of Ogden & smkey Road;
gu\I‘°,.ct ml ab l d teed so I Visa is a registered tradcrrnrk ofVlSA USA. Inc and VISA lntcrratlonal I overlooking Tanghwood Ma" .
$ App‘-0 S0 U‘ y guaran ' S‘-""'a5 ““r"'°“- 1000/.  I 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke
'3’ I 1 -—

  

 

 

  

THE UlllVERSl'IY Li8Rr“«t"W

wAsHwercra 5-.  UNlVEFl$iT‘f

1,13.-:':-rzatci->:.vA 344930 ‘A

NUBILE NUDES  

DuPont Display

MAR 2 6 1993

Features W&L Students

In All Their Glory

Generals Join Division I
W&L To Expand Program,

(3)

Offer Athletic Scholarships

0

VOLUME 92, NO. 69

he ﬂing-tum Iﬁlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSIDAD

METROLEX, VIRGINIA

APRIL 1, 1993

Students love
new revisions

S By HUI WINN
Phi Staff Writer

All nine proposed constitutional revisions
passed Monday’s student body referendum, with
90 percent of voters approving the amendments.
3 Executive Committee President Josh
MacFarland said the referendum was a landslide
once the Voting Regulations Board eliminated
ballots cast by illiterate students.

“Most students couldn’t even spell the word
‘referendum’, so we decided to eliminate their
votes,” MacFarland said. “Nine of the 10 qualified
ﬁoters thought the amendments were a great idea,
and I declared the referendum valid. That’s not
quite according to constitutional procedures, but

most of the students couldn’t read the constitution I

themselves to figure that out.”

In The Ring-tum Phi office, Executive Editors
Richard Peltz and Cathryn Lopiccolo popped open
Qlittle of the bubbly to celebrate their victory.

“I can’t believe those gullible voters approved
our amendments,” Peltz crowed. .

“Now we can take over the university and
overthrow the student government,” Lopiccolo
said in a very business-like tone.

Under the revisions, Lopiccolo and Peltznamed
giemselves “permanent editors of the student news-
paper, answerable to no human or deity.”

“At last, I have all the power I’ve craved since
arriving at Washington and Lee,” Peltz said. “And
I can even kill myself with work for another 50
years, and no one can stop me!”

IFC Dictator Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said he
fsars for the university now that Peltz is in control.

“Everyone knows that he’s completely brain-
washed Miss Lopiccolo, and she’ll do anything he
says," Atkins said. “Now there’s no telling what he
and his little puppet will do.”

A few students expressed concern that the stu-
dent newspaper would be free from the student

overnment and administration.

* “Imagine what would happen to the United
States if President Clinton couldn’t overrule the
decisions of the Washington Post,” senior Frank
Fascist said. “All that truth running around, and no
one to control it. I’m transferring immediately
before I have to read things that I don’t like.”

Fork

 

Deggie
27%

Woman on top
1.4‘:

W&L’s Favorite Sexual Positions

  
  

69%

36%

PC

&L craves variety

Survey: students save creativity for sex

By CREE A. TIVE
Phi Staff Writer

A new survey of W&L students
shows that the Generals have some
interesting tactics in the bedroom.

The survey, conducted by the
W&L Health Education Commit-
tee and Associate Dean of Students
for Sexual Issues Anne Schroer,
polled 600 undergraduate students
about their sexual preferences, fa-
vorite positions and turn-on-s.  -

About 85 percent of students
surveyed said they preferred het-
erosexual encounters; 10 percent
said they were usually homosexual;
3 percent said they switched pref-
erences depending on their horo-
scopes and lunar cycles and 2 per-
cent said they would have sex with

anything alive.

“I think the percentages are quite
healthy on our campus,” Schroer
said.“I wasalittle disturbed at how
few students were open—minded
enough to consider other species
for sex partners, but W&L is noto-
rious for its traditional, narrow-
minded sex practices.”

But Schroer said she waspleased
with students’ creativity in the bed-
room.

“These kids are just sexual ge-
niu»ses,’~’~ Schroer «said: -“Why, I
should be taking lessons from some
of them. In fact, I think I may do
just that. After all, I wouldn’t want
my little love-dove to get bored
with me.”

Over 98 percent of students said
that they are sexually active and
had experimented with different

i‘

positions in bed and elsewhere.
Senior Minnie Lovers said she
was glad to see that W&L students

were so open to new ways of doing '

things and each other.

“I thought that my boyfriend
and I were the only ones to ever do
it on the ‘20,000 Leagues Under
the Sea’ ride at Disney World,”
she said, “but I found out that a few
of my fellow students had done it
too."

According to the survey, W&L
students find it very stimulating” to
do the dirty deed whilctraveling in
some kind of vehicle. Cited in the
survey were many sexual experi-
ences involving cars, roller coast-
ers, golf carts and even “one of

Cl See SURVEY, page 3

‘Foreign

Student’

to bare all

By PORN O. GRAPHY
Phi Staff Writer

“The Foreign Student” is going to
reveal more about Washington and Lee
than anyone had anticipated.

Members of the administration said
Wednesday that the movie, set to be
filmed on the W&L campus in May,
contains full-frontal nudity and mul-
tiple sex scenes, including an orgy in
Lee Chapel.

“I couldn’t tear myself away from
the script,” University Spokesgrinch
Brian Shaw said. “The thought of all
those luscious college women gyratin g
next to Robert E. Lee’s statue excited
me incredibly. Uhm, don’t print that,
okay?”

The university agreed to the shoot-
ing of “The Foreign Student” in Febru-
ary. The movie is very loosely based on
the novel by Phillip Laymo, who at-
tended W&L in the 1950s.

Shaw said the university had no
idea that the movie would be porno-
graphic, but the administration thinks
any publicity will benefit the univer-
sity.
“What better way to attract hor-
monal high school seniors?” Shaw said.
“W&L has a long tradition of great sex,
what with the abundance of ready-and-
willing women from so many colleges.
I think the movie will highlight the
very best the university has to offer.”

A representative from Caligula
Films, which will produce the movie,

said his company took just a few liber-
ties with the movie script.

“Sure, the script’s a little different
than the book,” said Caligula Films
producer Ima Pervert. “But I talked to
Phillip (Laymo), and he told me about
all the things he left out of the novel. He
said print just couldn’t convey the
steamy atmosphere at that time. I think
our film can do it justice.”

Pervert said the 80 W&L students
who applied to be extras in “The For-
eign Student” will figure prominently
in the porn scenes.

“Some of those sorority girls just
screamed sex,” said Pervert. “l’ve in-
vited a few over to my place for screen
tests, and most of them are shaping up
just fine. Of course, we still may have
to do take after take before the men get
it right.”

Students chosen as extras for the
film said they were a little surprised by
how manyoftheirparts would be shown
on screen, but they are looking forward
to the filming.

“Exposure is key to getting a break
in the big league,” Connie Co-opchiek
said. “Ira has been really patient teach-
ing me all the right moves, and I can’t

‘wait to ‘try them out for real. And nei-

ther can my boyfriends.”

“Where else can you get paid $300
aday to moan, ‘Yes, Yes, Robin. Don’t
stop, baby, “I” extra Bob Hormonal said.
“I had those lines memorizedby the
end of Rush my freshman year.”

“The Foreign Student” is scheduled
to be released in December.

EC reveals sex honor violations

' A Star is Born

By WIIATA J OKE
Phi Staff Writer

 

Washington and Lee said goodbyeto one of its highly renowned journal-
ism professors this week. Professor Brian Richardson will join the
Allman Brothers on the last leg of their North American tour.

The Executive Committee came down the
mountain Monday with its proposals for
White Book revisions, developed at the Sky-
lark retreat.

“We’re all in complete agreement over
these revisions,” EC Grand Poobah Josh
MacFarland said. _

“Get away from that microphone,” senior
EC Rep. Susan Moseley said.

“You arrogant swine,” junior EC Rep.
Ashby Hackney said along with Moseley,
before the pair was subdued by other EC
members.

“The retreat was an enormous success,”
MacFarland said. .

Among the revisions proposed by the EC
after the closed meeting at Skylark are the
addition of being an asshole and performing
several sex acts and positions as honor viola-

tions.

But being an asshole while having sex
will be allowed, MacFarland said.

MacFarland said the EC would also add
cunnilingus and fellatio as exemptions to the
Honor System.

“Doggie style is really where the prob-
lems start,” MacFarland said.“We don ’t think
that fits in with the tradition of honor here at
Washington and Lee.”

MacFarland said the EC based their new
violations on recently released memostdating
back to Gen. Robert E. Lee’s tenure at the
university.

ACLU President Andrew Schneider said
he doesn't think the EC has any business in
the bedroom.

“It’s an outrage that the Executive Com-
mittee is discriminating among sexual posi-
tions,” Schneider said. “Under these criteria,
half the people in Lee Chapel for the orgy
would be kicked out on I-IVs.”

Junior EC Rep. Jimmy Kull said the solu-

tion to too many honor violations might be a
multi-sanction honor system.

“We should let students guilty of HVs
work off their penalties with community ser-
vice hours,” Kull said. “You know, a little
doggy style, a few hours of Live Drive.”

EC Secretary and President—elect Bob
Tompkins said a man’s degree of endow-
ment should be taken into consideration un-
der a multi-sanction honor system.

“Some men, you just have to say, ‘wow,’”
Tompkins said. “Sometimes they need dif-
ferent positions to be comfortable.”

EC members said they are uncertain what
next step in the White Book revisions process
should be.

“We could send the revisions to referen-
dum,” MacFarland said, “but students are too
ignorant for that. We’ll probably just decree
the revisions valid.”

He said he knows such a decree would be
unconstitutional, but “the EC can get away
with it, because frankly, students don’t care.”

. Schroer—formerly—Lamontand

Schroer, Futch to wed in June

By U.N. LIKELY

J. Phi Staff Writer

The Lee Chapel wedding bells will
soon toll for the campus’ newest love-
birds, Associate Dean of Students for
Women’s Issues Anne

P ofessor of History Jefferson
avis Futch.

Washington and Lee Di- ,-
rector of Communications Ice- '
T officially announced the
couple’s engagement yester-
day at a press conference in
Arlington Women’s Center.

“On behalf of the univer-
sity and President Wilson, I
would like to congratulate
Anne and Jeff on their union,” Ice-T
said. “Boink away, pal! That’s the only
reason we’re on earth!”

University President John D. Wil-
sUn Who said the engagement came as
something of a surprise to the univer-

sity adminstration and faculty. be spanked.”
“Wehad alwaysthoughtofJeffand Schroer—formerly- "Tsgﬂriger
Anne as being enemies,” Wilson said. Lamont said thatafter she

“But, from personal experience, I can
attest that sometimes sparks fly when

y9u least expect them. Like in the Phi

 

Futch
(on top)

Delt basement.”

Schroer-forrnerly—Lamont said she
and Futch had been adversaries until
about two weeks ago, when they got
stuck in the University Library eleva-
tor together.

“We talked for hours, waiting for

Buildings and Grounds to get
7-" off their three—hour coffee
break,” Schroer-soon—to-be-
Futch said. “I realized that Jeff
really is such a sweetheart,
and he does care about women
and their special concerns. He
told me about how much he
admires the work
I do on campus,
and I admitted
that I have really
always wanted
someone to dominate me
in a relationship.”

“That Annie is quite a
gal,” Futch said. “Under—
neath that tough facade is
just a little girl waiting to

and Futch ﬁnally escaped the elevator,
she immediately flew to Las Vegas for
a quickie divorce from Professor of

    

Administration Larry Lamont.
“Larry’s been a wonderful husband,
but he just isn’t half the man Jeff is,”
Schroer said. “I can’t wait to become
Jeff’s sex slave —-— uh, I mean, wife.”
“Of course I was shocked by Anne's
divorce,” said the jilted Lamont. “ButI

was getting sick of being the woman of ‘

the house. And at least I won’t have to
use gender—neutral language.”

Schroer said she and Futch have
both decided to hyphenate their names
after their marriage.

Futch said he will take charge of
cooking and laundry, while Schroer
has agreed to wear short
skirts and address him as
“Sir.”

The couple will wed
June 4 in Lee Chapel. The
ceremony is open to the
university community.

The wedding will have
an antebellum South
theme.The bride will wear
a pink taffetta hoop skirt.
The groom will be cos-
tumed in a Confederate
uniform. In lieu of gifts,
the soon-to-be-Schroer—Futches ask
that donations be made to the National
Organization for Women.

The  
Real

..
Wllson

Remembering years

of chicks and beers

AskUniversityPresidentlohn
D. Wilson about his greatest

By JOHN U. STUD
Phi Staff Writer

accom-

plishment at'Washington and Lee and he
will not tell you about silly dumpster fences.
But you will hear the story of a wild night at

Phi Delta Theta with four intoxicated sorority girls.

“Four babes at once,” reminisces the most powerful man on campus. “I think I even

Cl See STUD, page 3

 

    

PAGE 2

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

Founded September 18, 1897

Attention sheep

This is the Phi’s annual parody issue.
It’s funny. Read it.

Some parting words: For all students
, who think that we worked our butts off
it on constitutional revision proposals with
1; self-serving motives,

The newspaper you’re holding
represents our last contribution to this
community. h

—— CL, RP

Quote of the Week

Thanks, Rick and Cathy.
-— actually, no one ever said that
except the Executive Committee,
bless their souls

Ellie filing-mm lﬁlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . . .Business-like Bitch and Bastard

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bitch-to-Be

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Purest

Sports Stud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sex Instructor

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Purity Test Administrator

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Talented in the Darkroom

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Long or Wide

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Quiett

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil the Thrill

Reader Relations Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dream Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Subtely Swift

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fabulous Couple

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2x3

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Paperboy Extraordinaire

The real Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
MetroLex, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes prima-
rily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington
and Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and
business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent
and likes it that way.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to have a prayer
of appearing in that week’s edition. Advertising does not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi, its staff or its pets. This
newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscen-
ity from afar and observes Hustler v. Falwell up close.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

I
The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1993

Boozeland provides excitement for all °

SPY's SPACE
By Beavis

Last weekend, Beavis had the honor
of attending a killer party at Boozeland,
Washington & Lee’s “secret” retreat in
Hilton Head, South Carolina. Every-
one who’s anyone in W&L’s inner
social circle was there: Howison,
Atkins, and Ricardo (that guy that
cleans up the vomit in the dorms). At
this glorious reception, Beavis picked
up many tidbits that he should share
with his readers.

President John Wilson was the life
of the party, showing up in a white tux
with tails and a cummerbund that lit up
and spelled out “BERMUDA” when
you yanked on his tie. After downing
several bourbon and water cocktails,
Wilson ended up passing out under one
of the tables with soon-to-be-married
Anne Schroer, formerly Lamont. Oh,
well. Kids will be kids.

Also making waves at the party was
French Professor Kathy Koberstein,
who lay atop the baby grand piano and
sang a few bars of “Makin’ Whoopee”
in a sexy sequined dress that would
make Michelle Pfieffer jealous. Un-
fortunately, W&L’s Brat Pack, a drink-
ing society headed by self-proclaimed
drinking king “Big” Leroy Atkins,
emerged from a smoke-filled back

room, completely sehnockered and out
for blood. Atkins poured his drink down
the front of Koberstein’s dress and
attempted to grope her breasts, all the
while slurring something about
“women at W&L” and “the beginning
of an error.” Oh, those deans. What a
lively bunch.

Beavis also saw David Howison
hanging’ out amongst the cocktail
weenies with Ricardo. The two dis-
cussed sexual conquests in such a loud
and frank manner, Beavis couldn’thelp
but overhear.

“Why do you think I put my office
right outside the Co-op?” Howison
asked a puzzled Ricardo. “Because
that’s where all the hot sorority babes
hang out. How did you think I got so
much nookie?”

Well, Mister Dean of Students, we
know that once this gets out, those ‘hot
sorority babes’ won’t be counting ceil-
ing tiles for you any longer.

Gerry “Warbucks” Lenfest made
an excellent speech right after the 15th
round of cocktails. Lenfest announced
he would donate the money necessary
to build a new football stadium.

Now that W&L has gone Division
I,’’ Lenfest said, .“it will need a new
football stadium. I pla.n to donate $156
million.”

University Treasurer Larry
Broomall immediately went into shock,

Campus grape
vine makes wine

GRAPE VINE MAGIC
By Sally Slammer

Hey all you kids out there in gossip
land, have you heard the latest infor-
mation off the grape vine? Well, let me
tell you those grapes have been shak-
ing so much they’re about to become
wine.

A very confidential source says that
none other than our favorite French
Professor Kathy J o Koberstein was seen
dancing the night away at the moose
lodge with none other than President
John Delane Wilson. The very same
source says that Mrs. Ann Wilson was
no where to be seen.

Personally I

don’t;be’lieveit'.»‘     '  ' scene. Very
lsawfthe‘ -W113 *” ‘ “ touching.
son couple slt- “ ~ FYI for all
ting in IL you health
Palazzo at a fools:
cozy fireside Valerie and
table sipping Demaree
sherryandfeed- were drink-
ing each other i n g
meatballs, all chocalate
the while gaz- milk cock-
ing into each tails.
others eyes. 0 Did you
Could sneaky all hear that
little John be GQ is com-
carrying on be- ing to do a
hind poor profile on
Ann’s back? W&L men?
Nah! Yes, it’s
Have youall true. All the
heard about that publicity we
great party at have gotten
Boozeland? from ‘ that
Let me tell you wonderful
that big Buddy Foreign Stu-
Atkins getswild dent film is
when he is finally start-
drunk. This re- ing to pay
porter had to off. None
make herself other than
scarce, when Treasurer
Buddy insisted L a r r y
on seeing ex— Broomall,
actly what co- Professor‘
eds can do. J o h n
Our illustri- I-landelman,
ous Dean of Professor
Students was S e v r e n
seen in a pas- Duvall, Pro-

sionate embrace with none other than
Dean Schoer. All the while he was
crying out that she could not marry
Jefferson and leave him all alone in the
office with Buddy. Apparently
Howison is fearful of Buddy. Could
Buddy be propositioning poor Dean
Howison? Hmm. Maybe that’s why
Buddy enjoys working closely with all
those fine young boys on the IFC.
Schoer ensured Howison that she would
not leave the office and would continue
to protect Howison,

Just five minutes later this reporter
heard none other than Jefferson Davis
Futch Ill telling Frank Parsons that
“Anne is going to quit her job and stay
home and make babies as soon as we’re
married.” Could trouble be on the hori-
zon for'the new loving couple?

Let me tell you Boozeland was the
site of many a bizarre happening this
weekend. Our quiet reserved Dean of
Freshmen and Residence Life Dennis

, Manning was seen dancing on a table

as he stripped off his bow tie. Manning
told everyone at the party that all uni-
versity housing will now be.co-ed in
every room. .
Just five feet away from Manning
was the illustrious trustee Tom Wolfe
doing his impression of Marky Mark.
Wolfe stripped down all the way to his
tighty whities, at which point every
woman in the room, except for myself,
passed out. I have to tell you they did
not pass out because Mr. Wolfe was

 

impressive. No. No. They passed out
from the uncontrollable laughter.

I’ll tell ya, Boozeland was quite an
eventful place. All in all he event was
a smash hit with few glitches. Econom-
ics Professor Mike Smitka did get a
little out of hand with an uzi, but other
than that everything was fine. In fact
everyone had such a great time there
were even some tearful goodbyes.
When everyone was wishing their fa-
vorite new loving couple Anne and
Jefferson some fond farewells, the very
pregnant Art Professor Valerie
Hedquist and the slao pregnant Profes-
sor of English Demaree Peck were
seen hugging crazy little Jefferson and
telling him he “deserved only the best.”
Let me tell you, it was a touching

fessor Douglas Szajda and Professor
Robert Huntley will be featured.
Huntley was told they were interested
in him for his stunning resemblance to
Sean Connery. Huntley was heard say-
ing he hopes this helps him “get some
babes.”

Well, here we are, at that point in the
week where we make wild guesses
about the possibilities of upcoming
gossip. lt’s certainly my favorite part.
I mean who wouldn’t love just pulling
stuff out of thin air?

O—kay, here goes! You’ve all heard
about that titalating Foreign Student
scene to be filmed in the chapel. Well,
extremely, very confidential sources
say that scene will involve several big-
wigs in the university and perhaps even
a city official or two. Shall we make
some guesses?

Well, could you imagine Buddy,
Mayor Derrick, and none other than
Dean of the College John Elrod all
appearing in the buff and showing the
world just how manly they are? No,
neither can I. But surely the wise direc-
tors of the Foreign Student will want to
use the sex appeal drummed from the
GQ article and use some of W&L’s
hunks in their sexiest scene!

Well kids, its time for little ole’ me
to leave you for another week. Don’t
forget, keep your ear to ground and
keep Sally informed and in business!

Hiddy-Ho all, and have a very won-
der week. Love Ya!

and unloaded 137 confiscated beer
kegs, thanking Washington & Lee’s
fraternity system under his breath.

unable to say ordo anything until Atkins
poured a drink on his head. Director of
Capital Planning Frank Parsons lis-

tened eagerly At four in the
as Lenfest an— H moming,theplny
riounced the came toanabrupt
plans for the alfway through the end when Profes-
new stadium, party, the caterers f0llnd sor of Economics 1
whichwillseat  h W r runnin MlkC Smitka
80,000 and t ey e e g somehow ac-

will include
sky boxes for

low on alcohol. Security
Officer Thomas “Baner”

quired a firearm
and forced sevoral

terers found that they were running low
on alcohol. Security Officer Thomas
“Baner” Bane was their savior. Baner
backed his blue monster truck up to the
loading dock in the rear of the building

Capricorn

(December 22 — January 19)
Your sun and moon signs are are
fortelling good things capricom. Ve-
nus and Jupiter aretravelling through
your sector signalling a rise in your
emotion. Power is yours, but don’t
let it erupt before the climax. Pre-
matureexcitemnetcould cause prob-
lems in your personal life. But that
zeal will spur good things in the
work place. Libra lover will figure
strongly in your bedroom.

Aquarius

(January 20 — February
18)Don’t be a fish out of water.
Your sun sign speaks of luck in
adventures and good travel oppor-
tunities. Don’t be the guppy and
miss out. All of you aquarians will
have lots of luck in the bedroom,
but you aquarain women need to
watch out for yeast infections. Men,
jock itch will be prevalent if you’re
not careful. Both of theses unfortu-
nate circumsatnces could make you
a lonely ﬁshy. A big stong leo will

be in your private sector.

Pisces

(February 19 — March 20)You
aquatic wonder, you’re about to have
a greta month. There’s a powerful
super full moon floating on through
your constellation. Make sure you
grab that Bull by the horns, but not
too tight, you might hurt him. A
taurus figures stongly in your fu-
ture. That big, strong bull looks to
provide much fun and excitement in
the future. Don’t go out of the house
on Sunday

Aries

(March 21 —— April 19) Venus
willbecohorting with youthis week.
Love and sex will be good Satur-
day, but Sunday will bring a prema-
ture ending. A gemini will stroke
your ego and cause irritation. Your
croosroads are approaching. Will a
Cancer of the opposite sex be wait-
ing? Yes, but for you crabs will be
bothersome. Look for a capricom to
ease the pain caused by the crab.
The capricom will be the one.

Taurus

(April 20 — May 20) Irnporatnt
decisions will be made. An aquarian
will swim up your stream this week.
Enjoy the fishing, but don’t use all
your bait the first night. Your moon
sign heralds the need for some in-
centive to real the fish in. Work and
money will bring pleasures when
pluto pmaces into your constella-
tion, but don’t let them distract you
from a sensational seafood supper.

Gemini

(may 21 — June 20) Two will
prove better than one for the twins.
Many aries will be vieing for your
attention, but the best rain will win
by showing his/her bucking exper-
tise. Watch out for those scorned
rams, they’ll want to kick you in the
rear. The sun shines your way
tommorow. Use the extra light to
find those hidden feelings in your-
self. The weekend is a good time to
search your soul and do spring clean-
mg.

‘%

By your favorite astrologer, Daphne DoMe

the Board of B - - party guests to sit
. ane was their savior.

Trustees, arti- , on the floor and
ficial turf, and Baner backed his blue listen to his lec-
“b“"‘P- . monster truck up to the We 0" Chin“

Washing- I . . modemeconomy.
ton & Lee is oadlng d9ck. In the rear Mostof the guests
;_rulyhgrat<1=5[u1 of the building and un-- gscjalivcd. thus
or t is, r. - mi aisrumore
Lenfest, even loaded  conﬁscated to have 12 hos-
though we beer kegs, thanking ta_ges,whohesays
know that Washington & Leevs fra_ willdieonebyone
you re only . . unless he is
doing it be- ternlty System under his granted immedi-
cause the breath_ ate tenure. Ggod
I.R.S.iscatch- luck, Mike! lt’s
ing up with workingforDavid

- you. Koresh!
Halfway through the party, the ca- All in all, the party was a success.

W&L will get its football stadium and
several faculty are now more aware of
the merits of trading with China. Truly,
Washington & Lee is “not unrnindful
of the future.”

6
Cancer

(June 21 — July 22)Watch out
for crabs, your virgo virgin could be
lying. Uranus will be in jeopardy
this week, with attacks from the rear
being quite prevalent. Howeveg
Venus and juoiter will be having a
vertiable love fest in your
constealltion on tuesday. Enjoy
every minute of it. Financially you
will be secure. A rich man/woman
will come take care of your every
need for services rendered. .

Leo

(July 23 — August 22) Leo, you’ll
need your strong lioney strength this
weekend. Jealous gemini will b .
seeking your ability to make others
love you for who you are. However,
a sagittarius will provide the roman-
tic shelter you need. You may even.
loose yourself in ecstasy. Stay home
on Monday, a tantial izin g phone call
will come in. A virgo will be promi;
nent in your plans, but the won’t be
close to being the virgin they seem.
Be careful in the bedroom. '

Virgo .
(August 23 — September 22)
You’re looking good this week and
your sagittarian partner is drooling.
A french toy will make you giggle
Friday night. Be careful while mak-
ing hanky-panky, your sun sign
shows fertility and the pitter-pattel
of little feet could be in your near
future. Money comes easy this week,
but hold on to it for a littke while, a
good opportuniy is approaching and
it will require cash.

Libra

(September 23 — October 22)
This weekend will liberate you from
all your inhibitions with a little help
from the spirit of the bottle. Th;
gemini twins are moving in for a
closer look at you, show them your
best side. They could prove impor-
tant in the long lasting future. A VIP
will be waithing for you. Grab him/
her but don’t squeeze too hard you

may scare him/her away. .

Scorpio

(October 23 — November 21)
Your sting will cause deep love and
passion this week scorpio. A Libra?
will be lying in hopes of falling
under the thrust of your mighty
stinger. A new job prospect looms
in the future and bodes well for you.
You’re impressive this week in all
areas of your li fe. Take advantage of
everyone and everything that wilb
let you.

Sagittarius

(November — December 21)
Your mercury is on the rise. A Lee
will make it pop right off the scale.
Have fun, but be cautious. Illegal
acts will get you in trouble this week.
FYI: oral sex is illegal in Virginia.
Hunches are important this week.
Why? I don’t know. Go with ihg
flow and you’ll be a happy camper.
Make sure you go out on Monday,
you’re house may blow up.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1993

Wilson:
studlier
than you
might
think

Cl From STUD, page 1

surprised myself that night.”

Wilson smiles sheepishly as he re-
calls the costumed bash many years
ago, the one Phi Delt refers to as the
“Hell’s Angels Party.”

“I was driving down Main Street
with a few of my colleagues,” he said,
“when I saw an entire horde of Chi O’s
descending on one of the fraternity
ﬁiuses. I said, ‘Hey Johnny Uilrod],
let’s pull over and join in the festivi-
ties!"’

Unfortunately for Wil son, Elrod had
an early-moming dentist appointment
and couldn’t join in the fun. Wilson
forced Elrod to drop him off in front of
Hhi Delt.

“I had a little trouble getting into the
fraternity house,” Wilson said. “The
pledges stopped me at the front door
and asked me if I was on the guest list.
At that point, I told them that unless
they wanted to bag groceries for all of
spring term, they had best get out of my
way.”

Wilson descended into the depths

of the Phi Delt party, downing a six-
pack of Milwaukee's Best before he
even got to the room where the band
was playing.
. “When I finally got into the band
room, I was good and sauced,” Wilson
said. “After my thirteenth beer or so,
this girl approached me. I think her
name was Gina—— you’ll understand if
I can’t remember all of the details.”

From what Wilson does recall, he
agcompanied Gina to one of the bath-
rooms in the fraternity house and had
an “amorous encounter” with her.

It was in this bathroom that Wilson

~ got the idea for Fraternity Renaissance.

~ “It occurred to me, as I was getting
down, that the fraternity house bath-
r _oms were completely inadequate
fgr... well, you know.”

Wilson then decided that the uni-
versity could sponsora renovation plan
for all 16 fraternities.

“Notice that, in all the renovation
plans for the fraternities the bathrooms
have been enlarged to better serve the
n€eds of all who might use them,”
Wilson said.

After his encounter with Gina, Wil-
son remembers very little.

He does recall waking up in one of
the upstairs rooms at Phi Delt with
Gina and three babes licking whipped
chain off of his chest.

“I’ll spare you the details,” our il-
lustrious president said. “But I'll say
this: All four girls left that party com-
pletely satisfied.”

And the dumpster fences‘?

“Forget that pansy-ass stuff,” he
sad. “Did I ever tell you about that
time at Phi Psi when I threw the kegs
down the stairs?”

NEXT ISSUE: THE REST OF
THE WILSON STORY —— SEX,
MURDER AND DEBAUCHERY!!!
DON’T MISS IT!!!

0

Babes in Toyland

The luscious contestants for Miss Hawaiian Tropic 1993 strut their stuff after an exhausting
closed session with the Interfraternity Council. lFC President Sam Rock said the committee
can’t handle any more closed meetings.

I

By 0. MY
Phi Staff Writer

Porky’s 8’ to spy on W&L

film. Buttco claimed that Wilson’s buttocks were “too
saggy to contribute to the film in a positive way.”

“There's nothing wrong with my butt cheeks,” said

 

New Club

The Red Slide Rule Society.
What’s this?! We're a group of sexu-
ally frustrated math and physics pro-
fessors and students that meet each
Saturday night to do math equa-
tions by candlelight. Wondering
about our name? Well, our slide
rules are all swollen and red be-
cause some bitch named Amy who
hangs out in Parmly said she was a
virgin but lied because we heard
from my girlfriend’s sister who did
some guy in a bathroom at
Hampden-Sydney that this chick’s
name and phone number, with the
words “Call for a good time,”
WERE ALL OVER THE PLACE.
The infirmary says that there is noth-
ing we can do to get rid of this
disease except take penicillin and
not stand in direct sunlight. So we
sit up and do math equations all
night, but hey, you don’t have to
have sex to be cool, sojust shut up.

Film Society

The W&L Film Society will
present “Hooked on Phonics” at 8:05
p.m. on Friday and Saturday in the
TV in Carol Calkin’s office. As
always, there is no charge for ad-
mission but everyone is encouraged
to bring a pencil.

Lost

A blond. 5’3" male prospective
student was lost somewhere near
the library. If you have information,
please call Phil at 463-98 1 6 or leave
a note (or treasure map) in Carol
Calkins’ ofﬁce.

Free Gerbils

The cutest gerbils - FREE!
Spayed, declawed, barely used,
comes with hamess, case of Crisco,
litter box, food and water dish. If
interested please leave a note in
Carol Calkin’s office.

Deep Thought

You know, when it snows and
the front of the Colonnade is all
white, I bet it makes the grass un-
derneath really cold and wet.

Blood

The American Red Cross, in con-
junction with the Registrar Office
secretaries, is out looking for blood.
If you are type 0 and have a long
neck, please leave a note and home
address in Carol Calkins’ office

Housing

Gaines Hall is now taking appli-
cations for next year's occupancy.
Really, you wouldn't be a loser if
you live here. Grey carpet and red
furniture is AWESOME. It smells
reallyneat too. Carol Calkins would
want to live here if she didn't al-
ready have a home. Really.

Lexington will be caught up in celebrity fever again this
weekend while camera crews document Washington &
Lee’s social scene for a new version of a movie classic.

Buttco Films International, a movie company known for
its B-grade greats, will film “Porky’s 8” with 16 camera
crews to record W&L’s recreational activities. Buttco has
assigned one ﬁlm crew for each of W&L’s 16 national
fraternities to film the four—night—a-week social scene.

“Washington & Lee’s social scene is ideal for what we
hope to accomplish,”i',t said Shyster Brown, producer of
“Porky’s 8.” “Tliere’s plenty of nudity, beer and debauch-
ery, which we plan to exploit to the fullest.”

V 4 “ Over 500 students arid,fa_c_ulty came toa casting call in the

,,Uniyersi.ty..Center..on Friday. .Several W&L community

members-rece,ived_roles in the; film. , , .

Senior Joshua Manning, cast as a random piece of under-
brush in the film, said he was “so happy to be a part of all
this.”

Wilson in aphone interview. “I think that they are discrimi-
nating against me because I have a little tiger tattoo back
there... like George Schultz.” '

Despite Wilson’s failure to get a role, filming will go on
as scheduled this weekend. Buttco attributed 13 injuries to
members of camera crews Wednesday to “fratemity parties
that turned sour.”

In particular, Goober McFudd, akey grip from Hogdung,
Kentucky, was listed in critical condition this morning at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Witnesses say that McFudd was ﬁlming two people
having sex at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fratemity house
when a keg of beer, apparently heaved out a second-story
window, hit him in thehead and knocked him unconscious.

“We certainly feel sorry for Goober,” Buttco Spokes-
man Fibber Crappile said in a press conference this mom-
ing. “Unfortunately, our company health plan does not
cover alcohol—related accidents, so Mr. McFudd will be
unable to collect benefits.”

CD&P

The Career Development and
Placement Office says that seniors
had better just forget about getting
real jobs in June and focus on memo-
rizingThe Big Book of 1,000 Mixed
Drinks and scouting out bars in Rich-
mond for positions as stand—in bar-
tenders.

1,. -

The Calyx would like to thank

Even though it's a dead tradi-
tion,do it anyway, because itmakes
the alumni happy and they give us a
lot of money, so you WILL BE
friendly whether you like it or not.
For more information, Contact
Kathekon or Carol Calkins.



The Ring-tum Phi will be selling

Speak

Toys

“I am very happy,” said W&L Director of Capital Plan-
ning Frank Parsons. “As a matter of fact, I am so happy that
I may just go out and blow a hundred grand on real estate that
nobody needs and make the students foot the bill.”

University President John Wilson did not get a role in the

Despite the injuries, Crappile said “Porky’s 8” is ex-
pected to come in under budget and in time for its June 15
release date. The Lexington premiere will be held in the
Troubadour Theatre June 14 at 8:00 p.m. A wet t-shin
reception with free beer and women will follow the film.

Survey reveals student sex favorites

D From SURVEY, page 1

those plastic ‘Big Wheel’ contraptions
that everyone had when they were a
kid.”

Schroer was not surprised.

“Even (Professor of History) Jeff
(Futch) and I have done it on a Big
Wheel,” she yawned. “If someone had
done it on a ‘Sit—N—Spin,’ then l might
have been impressed.”

Also cited in the survey were sev-
eral sexual experiences involving food.

“I highly recommend maple syrup
and Reddi-Whip,” said sophomore
Wilma Willing.

Again, Schroer was not impressed.

“Futchy-Poo likes to nib me down
with melted chocolate and eat me up
like a Whatchamacallit bar,” she said.

Futch could not be reached for com-
merit.

According to the survey, 98% of all
respondents had a favorite sexual posi-
tion. The straightforward missionary
position fared rather well, being the
position of choice for 36% of the re-
spondents. .

The missionary position was fol-
lowed by doggie—style, 27%; woman
on top, 14%; woman twisted into a
pretzel, 9%; hanging from the chande-
lier or ceiling fan, 4%; facing the tele-

TALKBACK

vision set, 3%; and over the hood of an
automobile, 2%. The remaining 5%
make up positions that cannot be dis-
cussed in a family newspaper.

Fortunately for us, we are not a
family newspaper, so we will report
that a few people in the remaining 5%
prefer a position called ‘the Frog’
wherein the woman somehow kicks
her leg up over her head and... oh,
forget it. It’s too complicated.

Schroer said she highly recommends
the Frog Position and will teach a class
on it next spring term.

“ltwill be called ‘Women’s Studies
251,’” she said. “I'm confident that
we’ll have a full classroom.”

the freshman who showed up to
have his picture taken for this year’s
issue. Those students who chose
not to be a part of the yearbook
should just go STRAIGHT TO
HELL AND BURN.

Rick Peltz and Cathy Lopiccolo
action ﬁgures in front of the Co-op
on Monday. Figures are anatomi-
cally correct, accessories sold sepa-
rately. Batteries not included..

Compiled by Moe Hopkins

Student Body Notice

A student was sanctioned for using a firearm in
defending himself against an innocent prank by his
fratemity’s freshman pledge class. Surely he had a
good reason for brandishing his weapon. Thank God
for the Second Amendment. It’s so nice to know that
firearms are in capable hands.

parated at Birth?

 

Dean Buddy...
I

...and Mark VanDeusen?

President Wilson...

...and the Grinch?

Ham “the Hamster” Smith...

...and ...?

 

uyvohcsno-iniivun¢«,»‘o,'»-.‘«.s.»,".’I . n'IlAADl-

 

PAGE 4

WOMYN’S PAGES

How do you score on
the subject of scoring?

1. What is frotteurism?

a) a dependency on being
given an enema

b) a dependency on look-
ing at sexual organs and
watching sexual activity
openly, not surreptitiously, as
in voyeurism

c) masturbation by rubbing
against another's person or the
need to rub agianst another
stranger

d) a marked interest in ex-
crement i.e. the use of feces
or filth for sexual excitement

2. What healthy sub-
stance is predominantly
found in semen?

a) VitaminC

b) Protein

c) Calcium

d) Taro root

3. What position is a
variation of “doggie-style?”
a) Negresse
b) Missionary
c) One-eye, one-hom, ﬂy-
ing, purlple, people-eater
d) The Flying Nun

4. What is cunnilingus?

a) oral sex on a man

b) a fungus that breeds in
the crotch of a man

c) oral sex on a female

d) a fungus that breeds in
the cleavage of well-endowed
women

5. What is fellatio?
a) oral sex on man
b) a fungus that breeds in
the crotch of a man
c) oral sex on female

   

3.

d) a fun glus th

9‘

  

L: -.

at breeds in
the cleavage of well-en-
dowed women

6. What are ben-wah

balls?

a) a pair of small, usually
metal, balls which are placed
in the vagina or anus and are
supposed to feel good as they

move around.

b) the equivalent of blue

balls

c) a pair of small, usually
metal, balls which are placed
in the mouth of someone who
is performing oral sex.

(1) the equivalent of Chi-
nese harmony balls used for
relaxation and meditation

7. What is a “French

Tickler?”

a) a Frenchman with a
handle-bar moustache who
is fond of administering oral

SCX

b) an addition to Dunkin
Donut ’s line of eclairs

c) a non—contraceptive
condom with little tickly

things on the end

d) Champagne-like

aphrodasiac

8. What is “Spanish Fly?”

a) an aphrodisiac

b) a sexual position in which
a Spainard (of any sex) is on
top during intercourse

c) the Spanish version of
Tinkerbell

d) a non—contraceptive
condom with castanets at the

tip

9. What is “The Hawai-
ian Muscle Fuck?”

a) intercourse with the use
of a ham and pineapple pizza
as a sexual enhancement tool

b)using hula—like pelvic
thrusts during intercourse

c) sexual intercourse on a
mussel—covered beach

d) a titty fuck

10. What word describes
someone who derives plea-
sure from inﬂicting pain?

a) masochism

b) sadism

c) botulism

d) animism

q(0I P(69(8 3(/.9(99(§
o(17e (gq (zo(1 zsiamsuv

Score:

10 — Get it on! You cer-
tainly know your sexual lingo!

6-9 - (No pun intended)
Your pretty knowledgable
about the ol’ in/out, but you
should practice on your tech-
nique. Please see the person-
als.

0-5 — What can one say?
You need some serious help.
Please see the personals and
the ads on p. 5.

  

 i_I<;»=.'»’~x« : 1- I. - -“I  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1993

Welcome to Hunter ’s Hell Kiddies

Thompson replaces Richardson in J — school .

By SENS A. writer — incar-
MILLIA ceration in a Lou-

phi staffer isville jail pre-
j‘*'— ventedhisobtaiii-
W o r 1 d - ing that all-"m-
reknown writer portant high
and drug user school diploma:
Hunter S. fistfights in
Thompson will Greenwich Vil-
replace Professor lage numbed his
of. Journalism hands for high-
:3rianRichardson speed typbng.
Pnng IeTm- South American

Richardson will
join the Allman
Brothers for the
final leg of their

whores spent his
money. But Dr.
Thompson pre-
vailed to ride with

lltlorth American the Hews An-
0111 gels, run for sher-
blfhomlpson IS iff and take.his
0 V10115 3/ ex‘ placeasoneofthe
Cited al_3Q11t his great stylists of
Dev“: P°S1U°“~ the English lan-
Kiihr 3% 
...ll ' . 6 , ompson
11h-h11h.”Th0mP- hopes to oneglay
S061 dd Said; becomeauniver-
“ 0 8mit- sity dean.
Where's my “I’d like tobe
doobage.”_ Dean of Extra-
He will be curricularActivities
teaching 3 I111m- . . . or some shit
ber of the stan— job like that,” he
dard journalism said_ 9
coursesaswellas He said he’s
a few more spe- like to create a
cialized courses. sense of

He said his In-
troduction to Re-
porting class will
emphasize “Gonzo” journalism.

“We just make shit up in the hopes
of being sensational,” he said.

Thompson also said he would like
to guide students in a year—long indi-
vidual studyprojects on different drugs
(legal or otherwise).

“There would be an emphasis on
experimentation,” he said. “No fuckin’
lab rats, man, the real thing.”

He would also like to coordinate a
study abroad program in which stu-
dents can travel around the globe in
search of previously unidentified
hallucinogeons.

“It would be a sort of scavenger
hunt,” he said. “The winner is the one
who is left with the fewest functioning
brain cells.”

Professor Thom pson

Thompson would also like to re-
introduce sex education but on a much
more advanced college level.

“There would be an emphasis on
experimentation,” he said.

Bondage and sado-masochism
would be saved for the unpperdivision
students, he said.

However, there would be a lab fee
not covered in the price of tuition. But
he would be very willing to assist stu-
dents who are struggling at no extra
charge.

“I’m not a whore, for God's sake, I
don’t get paid,” he said.

Biographer E. Jean Carroll said of
Thompson:

“Hell itself could not rival Dr.
Thompson’s struggles to become a

c o m r a d e r i e
among the deans
of the university
that is now absent. ’
“We’d go to Skylark,” he said. ‘‘I
would emphasize experimentation.”
As Dean of Extra—curricular
Activites he would like to also empha-
size the benefits of experimentation of
all kinds among the student body.
“College isn't only a place to réad
books or write papers, but a place to
explore your limits as a person, animal
and/or vegetable,” he said.
However, at the moment lofty
dreams of being a dean must be play
second fiddle to the matters at hand.

“Shit!,” he said. “I can't find my .

goddamn doobage. Where the hell is
my coke. Man, if I had my pistol . . .
Yeah, sure there’s an honor code here!
Okay, who made off with my stash!”

Right now, your Apple Campus Reseller has the most affordable new
line of full-featured M2lClIIl0Sh® computers ever. There’s the App
Color Classic“’— a solid performer at a remarkable price. The Macintosh
LC III, which runs 50% faster than its top-selling predecessor, the LC ll. And,

”.$'er1'ice L\‘ zlmilab/e ml/_1' from Apple Cam/m.\' Resellent 11'/rich areAp/I/eAuIIJor1:et/.\i*rI'ice l’r(1I'irler:\‘. ©1993 A/I/I/r Com/mlrrr. Inc. All rig/J/.\' I't'.\‘c'I'I'er/. A/)/I/e. //J1‘ .'l[7/I/t‘ logo. .1/(It'll!/().\'/) //)Ir/ '7lw/tower’ lo bt*_t'u/n‘ lmi‘/' mt’ rrjuit/t'I't'(l /rm/wzlrméx Q/'. I/I/I/t’ (rm;/m/rt: Int‘ l/IICIII/l).\'/l (lw/wit /5 :1 /mzltwm/'1» 0/ *l/I/I/L‘ (.'om/in/1'7: /mi (.71/.\:\'ir‘ I.\' ll I'r;t,t/.v/m'ur/ /mt/w/zurl) /Itw/ml /o ,-l/7/I/4' (,1-In/mlur. /I/l‘

You’re
one wit 3

772e'Apple

Macintosh Color Classic.

    

I

"9

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller:
a full Macintosh line for all your needs.

this

The new Apple

 

Macintos/9 Cerzlris 610.

le® Macintosh

for even more power, the Macintosh Centris“ 610. See these new computers
today at your Apple Campus Reseller. Where you’ll get special student pricing,
as well as service during college“L‘And experience the power of Macintosh. ’
The power more college students choose. The power to be your best? 

not the only
carrying a lot of
semester

  

Commerce in Ancient . u.. , Amie:

7799 newA,0/>19
Macmlos/2 LC /11.

For further information visit the Computer Center in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844

   
    

{—

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1 , 1993

PERSONALS

 

9 WOMAN WANTED
by real W&L security guard in full
dress uniform. You’ll be searched
spread eagle, spanked and licked into
confessing your fantasies. Safe, clean ,
harmless fantasy. 55—BANER

.9

Shoe Fetish! SWM, 21,
seeks slim female with large shoe closet
for safe erotic fun. Size 81/2, nice legs
and clogs a plus. 555-NIKE

U

DOMINANT M SEEKS F
WHO ALWAYS WANTED TO BE
DISCIPLINED LIKE A NAUGHTY
LITTLE GIRL. NOW IS YOUR
CHANCE. 55-SPANK

an

DISTINGUISHED DOMINANT
DEAN

Sks long term relationship with a sub-
missive M. You're no “doormant.”

‘You’re proud! But you desire to submit
to a truly dominant F you love & re-
spect & who really cares for you.
DOOR-MAT

CONSERVE YOUR ENERGY
‘WITH YOUR OWN PERSONAL
ENERGIZER F SOCKET SKG M
PLUG FOR CONTINUOUS FLOW
OF ELECTRICITY. 555-ACDC

' WANTED

EXPERIENCED TONGUE &
‘ TOY USER
ANY RACE, 18-25, ANY SIZE.
555-LICK

INSTANT PUDDING =
INSTANT FUN
55-JELLO

X. Modem couple desire for sexual
friendships to please to completion
orally and anywise. Love to watch as
well as participate. 555-ORGY

CURIOUS CLOSET CROSS-
DRESSER
Straight SWM 22 of sound mind &
body seeks sexy female or BIF to dress
up with in sexy lingerie. 5-UNDIES

DO ME! DO ME NOW!
Bom-agan virgin seeks anyone, any-
thing to break 7-month dry spell.. All
papers in order. DISEASE FREE!
READY, EAGER & WIDE OPEN.
DO-MENOW

DOMINATIVE FEMALE
Sks submissive male to bind blindfold
and bang. Handcuffs provided. Whips
and chains optional. Must be kinky &
kute. 555-CUFF

D0 ME! D0 ME HOW?
F contourtionist seeksable-bodied M
to explore the many positions of the
Kamusutra and the plethora of uses for
the 4 food groups. 555—OUCH

SCHOOL FOR WIVES
M, early40s, offers special erotic train-
ing and role play for naughty wives.

Yee- Haw
Good 01’ Texas cowboy seeks cowgirl
in spurs to ride his pony. Hog—tying
optional. SHEE-HAW

WHIPS, CHAINS &
AUTOMOBILES
are a few of my many sexual interests.
If you own a land—based vehicle with a
net weight of over 30, 000 lbs. and a
collection of leather or rubber
dominatrix paraphenalia then you're
my woman. 555-WHIP

TAKE ME TO BED OR LOSE ME
FOREVER
YOUNG, NUBILE NYMPHOMA-
NIAC SEEKS MALE TO GRATIFY
ALL HER SEXUAL DESIRES, ALL
THE TIME. 5-NYMPHO

 

PAGE 5

WOMYN’S PAGES

Do you like
your women

SUBMIT TO YOUR

\.

FEET ON vnun KNEES!!

MUNH IS
voun (
“UENUSIN  
 run9’nNn\£
RUBBER

CHLL
l—SUBM I SSION

SHE llJlLL

UJHIP ,

HND  .

S P H N K;   L 
vou mm 

SUBLIME

SUBMIS-

SEXUAL PUNISHMENT!   
1—900—MY—MOMMY

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIOOOOOOOLOQOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOO'lOOO_OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIIII

SION

 

 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 

  

   

rough & tough?:,_;\.!.

1.

 
 

~.¢ ~.:   \_ _  . .
  l’VEBEENAVERY'\,_.  ”
‘~. i_BAD BOY!!! 
'2‘-._\ i

   

............... "

 We bend over
  backward to
please you‘ "

KALL KINKY KONTORTIONISTS
SPECIALIZING IN THE
KAMASUTRA




 1—9oo—55— ‘¥§T;;/  ‘

 

 

Women ’s clothing.

TGIF

OUTLETS

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women ’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount

' Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive
merchandise from America’s most famous mail
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

Irr- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men ’s and Women ’s Wear.

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and

Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -
Now $3.00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
1' Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
1 703-463-9730

   

 
  
 

-3-C-1-I-In:-1'5-1-C-3-C"Ce-'*

1/2 Rack- $5.99

Breakfast Buffet Friday & Saturday Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
F All-U-Can Eat $4.99
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99
Wednesday Night BBQ Night - choice of potato & vegatable
Whole rack- $10.95
Saturday Night Prime Rib
Queen cut $11.95
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served 24 hrs. a day.

King cut $13.95

Spring Break:
CANCUN, NASSAU
from $299
Organize a small group for FREE trip
CALL 1 (800) GET-SUN-1

   

 

  
   

 

0-PPOQOQQO"

All Wiiiter erchandise
23 N. Main St.  

Lexin ton, VA 24450

 

(703) 463-5988

  

 \

ondalc - - Dir Bk ia
Jansport day packs and book bags

Lexington Bike Shop

130 S. Main St. Mon.-Fri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

     

Valley 

Hardware, Paint and Related Items

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

 

 \

 

 
    
    

453-7969 '

 
     

at

LEE—llI  

Truck Stop

4 miles North on Route 11

We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice, & Shell
. .:.w!-2-I-'  -.   . -..-.-.-'-...-r...-C. -. . -I-3.:-I -.2 ' " ' I ‘

 

   

Immediate opening for
students to post ﬂyers on
campus. Call Dana at
1-800-592-2121 Ext. 131

SUCCESS.
GET AN EDGE ON COLLEGE EXPENSES.

The Army can help you get an edge
on college expenses in just two years.

When you enlist and qualify for a
certain skill, you could become eligible v
for the Montgomery GI Bill Plus the
Army College Fund. That means you
could earn $17,000 for college with
a tvvo-year enlistment.

And the Army will give you
another edge, too. You’ll develop
the self-discipline, self-conﬁdence and maturity you’ll
need to succeed in college.

Find out more about how you can get $17,000 for
college in just two short years. Call your local Army
Recruiter for more information today.

can (703)463-2166

ARMY
BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

  
 
 
 
 

L\

V
W&LrArt

1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “R.E. Lee"

Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee, Jr.
M. Miley John Letcher

Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate. hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

4 East Washington Street
Lexington. VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

riiiﬁtmnnls
Blllllllll

Open Monday — Saturday
10 a.m. — 5:30 p.m.

 

 

 

 

The W&L
Film Society
proudly
presents

The Playboy version
of   I

 

March 32 & 33

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1993

   

Getta
  Peesa
  Lambda .

Y0 UR PREMIERE so UR CE

OF INI T IAT I ON ANIMALS
SINCE 1895

1/ The widest selection of
farm animals in Lex for all
your ritual needs
V All animals hand;
checked for diseases
V Conﬁdential service,
 back-door exit v
4  V Wide assortment of pro-
phylactics, sex toys and
stimulants

Call EARLE at 555-3358
No refunds or exchanges ‘

O

O

O

  

in the Troubadour

 

Gratuitous
Beaver Shot

Ever remodeled

a Mexican restaurant?

Your skills are needed!
Call Washington 8: Lee

7.32322:ZZZIZZZZIIZIZZIZZZZ22:32:.
I
B

Movie producer
seeks woman with t
great breasts to be

body double '
in upcoming film. L
Call 555-HOOT.

€,.:g,»..~,& Feeling
‘ inadequate? *-
Ef "ff. Jealous of
  the other
;' ?  guys in the
  locker room?.
 We understand.
=‘  Joinoursupport
group: Men with
Small Penises.
We meet every
Saturday in the .
Women ’s Center.

 

For Fran...

C?

28

 

 

D
The Ring-tum Phi, EL FIN, 1993

  Hamsmetet
 MEANS LOW PRICES

 

  
  
    
 
   
 

25% OFF POULTRY SALE
PERDUE OR TYSON-HOLLY FARMS

CUT-UP

l FRYERS

—n~

9RADE "A" PERDUE OR 7'"
TYSON-HOLLY FARMS

WHOLE
FRYERS

LIMIT 2 or EACH
ON WHOLE ravens
WITH ADDITIONAL

PURCHASE

LBO

 

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2IITER y9

SLICING
TOMATOES

  
 

REDUCED
PRICE

 

ASSORTED FLAVORS RAGU
CHICKEN  
TONIGHT ....23-24.5 oz.

40%  

OFF ALL

149

    
     

lsrsyzsn SPECIAIIIIFEYJACK
I  POTATOES ........ ..5.5-6oz. 069
BANQUET

 

POT 2/

PIES ........... ..7 oz. BOXES O 9 9

I’ REGISTER TO WIN IN THE

CHARLOTTE HORNETS  '99
"BEST LIEGGSII JUICE .......  ..... ........l28OZ.

 
 
 

 

+ SWEEPSTAKES

0 HAVE FUN AND WIN
VALUABLE PRIZES.

0 DRAWING TO BE HELD
APRIL 12, I993.
NOTHING TO BUY.

0 SEE STORE FOR
DETAILS.

sucep TO ORDER
ROAST
BEEF

99

IN THE DELI-
BAKERY

  

‘O .

I.B.

PANTENE
HAIR CARE
PRODUCTS

O REGULAR
HT
ICE CREAM

   
 
 

SELECTED
O .
9 9 VARIETIES 9 9
I INCLUDES
HAI-F PRO” 7 -I3 OZ.
In GAL.

 

Prices Effective Through March 30, I993

g Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, March 24 Through Tuesday, March 30, I993. ln Lexington Stores Only
. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Giadly Accept rederol food Stamps.

 

' PAGE ?

W&L football to be

spiked

inthe

Bermuda Triangle

Flight to be lost because of
spurned ex-groupie of

By MULDOON
WHO?

Disclaimer: If this is not
funny, blame the left side of
my brain.

Warning! Warning! Warning!
(Sorry, my CD player’s skipping.)

This is a warning to the W&L foot-
ball team, DO NOT , It REPEAT, DO
NOT GO TO BERMUDA!

This reporter has learned of an ex-
cruciatingly painful fate awaiting the
team on its trip to Bermuda.

This reporter has learned that the
Bermuda Voodoo High Priestess
Terrasan, who believes “all men should
be born guilty,” has placed a curse on
the football team.

According to a reputable source (I
think it’s the shoeshine man from the
“Police Squad” television show, which
preceded the two “Naked Gun” mov-
ies), High Priestess Terrasan was once
a groupie for head coach Gary Fallon.
But coach told her kindly that he wasn’t
interested. Since that time she has har-
bored a deep resentment for him.

Coach Fallon declined to comment
on the situation saying he had no infor-
mation about the threat, but he added
MissTerrasan and he were just friends.

But this reporter has learned from
the same reputable source that the High
Priestess threat is to be taken seriously.
Just last year, Terrasan got even with
another source of unrequited love. She
put this team in the same situation that
awaits the W&L team. And we've all
seen what has happened with the Dal-
las Mavericks.

According to the reputable source,
the team will be lost in the Bermuda
Triangle. But Terrasan has no plans for
any of the team members to be hurt in
any way. The real danger comes from
the mental abuse the team will have to
endure.

  Coach FaI|on’s

Terrasan has ordained it so the Gen-
erals will have to endure the preachin gs
of Branch Davidian leader David
Koresh, Jimmy Swaggart and a Mus-
lim Fundamentalist to be named later
(sounds like a bunch of players in-
volved in a trade) 24 hours a day and
for the entire 31-day period.

Just for those who have been living
with their heads someplace unnatural,
this rewporter will explain quickly who
these demonic souls are.

David Koresh is new to the group
above, and besides the Muslim Funda-
mentalist to be named later, has been
the focus of national attention. He is
holed up in a military-style compound
in Whako, Texas (pardon me, Waco).
He believes the world is going to end in
a few years.

Hey, dork! If the world was going to
end soon, do you still think this re-
porter would bother with this stupid
article?

Jimmy Swaggart (or Swaggert, I’M
not sure) is the perverse preacher who’s
been arrested for picking up prosti-
tutes_ more time than this reporter has
been shot down trying to pick up a
mannequin.

The Muslim Fundamentalist will
not be unknown until a few hours be-
fore the flight is to be lost. There is a
fight among the various factions over
who will have the honor of driving
Americans nuts.

The results of this torture is un-
known because it affects different
people in different ways. I mean the

Mavericks came out this season think-
ing they were a pro basketball team.

Other victims of Priestess Terrasan

include: the 1972-73 Philadelphia
76’ers, the Columbia University foot-
ball team, the ’62 Mets, the 1976 Tampa
Bay Buccaneers (how old is this
woman?), Hitler, Bennito Mussolini,
the leaders of the Crusades. How many
losers do you need to prove this lady
carries some serious grudges?

University President John Wilson
says he does not see any danger in the
team going on the trip, but he’s glad
he’s takeing a different flight. He feels
Priestess Terrasan’s threat is nothing
more than hot air (careful pot, the
kettle’s not that dark).

But who knows, the curse might
work backwards and the Generals will
go undefeated in 1994 and win the
Division III championship. Stranger
things have happened.

 

 

Last Week:

Base- W&L 4, Yankees 3

MLax— W&L 13, Johns Hopkins 11
WLax- W&L 20, Roanoke 0

MTen— MacNaughton def Courier 6—0,6-1
WTen— Baker def Seles 2 grunts to 1

PAGE ?

THE DOME IS COMING

By KEG
TSAR (or CZ/1R) ofREID HALL

After the “Storm of the Cen-
tury” (as proclaimed by the Lhi)
wiped out 90 percent of the Gen-
erals’ baseball schedule, Wash-
ington and Lee Athletic Director
Mike Walsh announced the con-
version of Smith Field into a
domed arena, this week.

Walsh, Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson, and
head baseball coach Jeff Stickley
were in attendance at the press
conference in the Warner Center
to unveil the design. 1

The project is being paid for
by the estate of a 1930s W&L
graduate, W. Laurence Thomas
“Indy” Jones IV, esq. Jones re-
ceived an honor’s degree in Ge-
ology in 1931. He also taught at
W&L part-time through 1934.
Jones, an avid archeologist, has
been missing since 1989, when

S

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm iﬂhi

PORTS

SWEATY PEOPLE PERFORMING INTENSE PHYSICAL ACTS

This Week:

, Everything ppd.

due to Sunshine ° I

EL FIN, 199

HE DOME IS COMING? ’

he was leading a search for the
Lost Art of Creativity in Holly-
wood. It was the last of three
such projects for Jones, only the
first of which proved successful.

The new baseball arena will
displaymanyoftheartifacts from
Jones’s 50 years of expeditions
and will be named, in his honor,
the Jones Gallery of Artifacts
and Baseball. Students -may at-
tend games on an appointment
basis only.

The editors of the Phi pro-
posed that the university install a
retractable dome in order to take
advantage of the freld’s surround-
ing view. Immediately, the Spec-
tator called for a “No” vote.

Following a brief debate, the
university and athletic depart-
ment decided that a retractable
dome would not be feasible. As a
compromise, retractable fences
will be installed, instead. Walsh

thinks that this will be more ben-
eficial to the team.

The playing surface will con-
sistofartificial turf, the firstofits
kind at Washington and Lee.
However, the new surface will
not be installed until the 1995
season. In the meantime, Walsh
said the team will play on the ivy
that fell off of Payne Hall, last
month.

“[The ivy} will be much bet-
ter than that slop that they’re
playing on right now,” he said.

Most of the players were un-
available for comment because
the team is presently attempting
to make up its canceled non-con-
ference games 'at the nearest avail-
able fields which were untouched
by the “Storm of the Century” (as
proclaimed by the Phi). The Gen-
erals’ last reported location was
Okinawa. However, communi-
cations have been cut by a recent

typhoon.

The E did manage to reach
team captain and shortstop Jon
Hesse, for some reason on a
neighboring island, and asked
him whether he preferred grass
or “Astro-turf.”

“I don’t know. I’ve never
smoked Astro-turf,” he replied.

According to Wilson, while
the team is away, Smith Field has
been leased to a production com-
pany filming a TV mini-series
about a foreign student who
french-kisses dead Civil War
veterans. Approximately 36.8
seconds of local footage will ap-
pear in each episode.

In a related story, coach
Stickley announced that English
Professor David Lynch will re-
main at Washington and Lee as
an assistant with the basebal
team. v

“Davey’sjob will be to talk to

the guys between innings and
keep them up for the game,” said
Stickley. “We think, based on his
record, that he’ll be a big inspira-
tion for us all.”

Duane Van “Chip n”’ Arsdale
was reached brieﬂy by phone in
New Zealand, but responded to
all questions with a strange gar-
glin g sound.

The Jones Gallery should be
ready by opening day next year.
In the meantime, the Generals
were supposed to play a three-
game set this weekend with a
Philippines Little League team
of six-footers, but that has been
postponed so the field can be
cleared of the ash from recent
volcanic activity. Stickley, how-
ever, is not concerned about com-
pleting the tearn’s schedule. Im-

A mediately following the press

conference, 26 English majors
showed up requesting a tryout.

Column

to Vent
By FED UP

I have never been one to bitch
and complain, but enough is
enough.

This PHI sports coverage is
pathetic. I mean 20 some differ-
ent sports and three people can’t
cover it.

Cut me some slack.

In my hey-day I could cover
the Winter and Summer Olym-
pics on one cup of coffee and a
doughnut (thank you Jim
Schoenfeld).

Hey! he’s another moron. I
mean thank you ESPN for taking

My final good-byes:

Adios!

See Ya! I Wouldn’t want to be Ya!

Hasta la vista, baby!
its been your pleasure!

lt’s been my pleasure! NOT!

I AM OUTTA HERE!

Barn Apartment for Rent

For two people in a private facility.

Stalls, individual turnout, use of a ring,
jumps and trails. Price negotiable.
Call Nick at 992-1069

 

BYE

11:11 I

I I I I llllllllllllllllllIIIIJIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllilllllll

_ Fo r Bedroom house for rent
 for next school year

Caring. stable single female
school teacher desires to
adopt a baby. Financially secure.
Can provide loving & fun family.
Call collect 804-572-8403 or
write P. O. Box 655, South Boston.
VA 24592.

IIIIIIIIIIIIIII

‘V

Support the boycott
of Virgins at W&L. or

him outof the color commentor’ ~
seat and putting him in 1.ht,.Slu
dio. Next stop, the street.

But back to the PHl’s cover
age. I mean what kind of organi
zation would not give blow—by
blow details of the varsity bridg
club? Come on, now that’; ex
citement.

Speaking of excitement, any
one see the SI Swimsuit edition
Not bad if I do say so my dam
self.

But I digress.

The argument I heard aroun
the office was that these on
reporters had other lives and real

work to finish- Pah-shah (thanks

Glitter)!
What work? I mean what is

more important, a detailed de-

scription of the men’s 5,000-
meter race or an ethics pape? due
in two hours? No contest.

Speaking of contests, who do
you think deserved to be Queen
on MTV ’s Beauty and the Beach
competition? Number 4 won,
but I personally thought number
1 had the best answers on hcﬂy to
save the planet.

Enough of this, back to my

original topic. Oh hell, what was

it again? Jeez-oh-man (thanks
again, Glitter), what was it? Oh
yeah, the PHl’s sports coverage.

I’ve seen the great sporl re-
porters like Red Smith break into
as many as eighteen different
people and cover the globe. Why
can’t the PHl’s people do that?

I hope next year’s group is
better, buthow can they be worse?
I’m sure they will spend th; 12
hours in the PHI office every
Wednesday night to cover all
the sports and to the degree they
should be covered, the extreme
degree.

I Thanks for letting me vent.

month for the unit.

— Great Location
——- Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet

Apartment for Rent

Catering to W&L Students — Two-bedroom apartment for
rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk from
the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom. $300 per

CLLENT ,
EX'1‘RA INCOME NOW!

I ENVELOPE STUFFING —- seoo - $800 every week - 1

Free Details: SASE to

International Inc.

Cape Cod House for Rent — One or
Two Year Lease. Located on Rt. 39
on the river, approximately 9 1/2
miles from Lexington. Oil or wood '1
furnace, 5 bedrooms, full basement,

— Landlord Pays’ for Water, Including Hot Water

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown,
at 463-3013.

i«~”"‘“”f’%

1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

dining room, living room, den,
large kitchen. Call 348-5210

UEHW -tnsirirr
SPORTWEAR

15 VV. VVASHINGTCDN ST 1
LEXINGSTCDN, VA 24450
703 464-3000

Now Carrying Merrell Hiking Boots

 

'Dear Abby,

I had two brothers. One of them went to Hampden-Sydney College and the
other went to the electric chair. Now I have met a very nice girl and we plan to be
married. My problem is shoul dI tell her about my brother who went to
Hampden-Sydney? .

We all have our problems, but CRAFTS PLUS can solve

yours when it comes to crafts and hobbies.
CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main Street, Lexington, 463-3355

       

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

11 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Robby Jones
(703) 463-2022

     
  
  
   

 
   

-7 ’ --——-00;‘; inn’:--Q‘: r-er-— ‘
‘ - I I
Do You Want VISA & Masterca rd Credit Cards? , sruneur SERVICES.BOX l792lI.PLANTATION.FL 33313 ' audi , "in
Now you can have two of the most mogmzcd and '  IwantVISA®/MASTERCARDO Credit ' "”°‘° ' "'°‘° ' °"“ ‘°"”'E°‘.
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa® and MastcrCard® I . . I A DEMON -
C"-'d“ C3"d&--"In YOU!’ name-" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cards. Enclosed ﬂnd S 5 which Is 100% refundable If not I ADCOM ;:?;‘gE ’
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! | approved ‘mn‘ed'atc1y_ | TOSMBA MARAN12 ‘
VISAG and MasterCard® the credit cards you I I KEF CWD
deserve and need Ior— ID——BOOKS-—DEPARTMENT | NAME . BOSTON DEFINITIVE
STORES—TUITION—-ENTERTAINM ENT— . ' KUPSCH EAZOO KA
EMERGENCY CA5H“T'CKETS“RESTAURAN1S“ . ADDRESS ' - SPEAKER TRADE up PROGRAM
Hort-:Ls—MorE1.s—oAs—-CAR RENTALS— ’ ; ggmgﬁmcnow PLAN
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE _. ZIP | . ,,,_,,0,,E ,;,,‘3!?E”C‘;§,';g§TMEN*
. ' - .
“WE” :   .' - xisfgxgfngeiisinfgtgéovsn
o _ .
° smcrnvg No credit I SIGNATURE I (800) 468-6667 _
“5plI|=“¢o \$‘:‘ No secunty deDOS1t! ' non-2 MastaCaId Is a registered tndcrmrk or Masuraru lntcmatloml. Inc. ' Corner of ogden & Starkey Road-,
gob!‘ 0.11 U I Visa Is a registered tndcnnrk orvisn usn. Inc and VISA Inerrnuomi I Overlookmg Tanglewood Mall
f ' Approval absolutely guaranteed SO . 5“-VI“, gutgggon 1000/.  ' 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke
I I r‘.

 

 

 

 

THE uutvaer

WASI-llNt3TO"t 5§=.‘fc'ﬂ5ﬂTY

LEXlE‘:$'i‘I.~.\'. v.-\‘ Mast)‘

APR 2 21993

A Native Son’s Legends Return

Marshall DeBruhl Brings the
Adventures of Sam Houston
Back to Life in his New Book

0

The Generals losing streak I
hﬂsseven

Break prooves painful
for Baseball Team

0

. he Bing-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 92, NO. 23

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

April 22, 1993

 

L  

...At Last!!!

Photo By Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi

Senior Phil Spears enjoys Tuesday’s sunshine by reading a book on the Colonnade. Temperatures soared to almost 80
degrees earlier this week. Temperatures dropped Wednesday, but weather reports predict warm weather for Foxfield.

(_3roups show . support for VMI

FROM STA FF REPORTS

The controversy surrounding Virginia Military
Institute’s single-sex admissions policy may soon be
settled by the United States Supreme Court.

a friend-of-the—court brief filed yesterday, four
interest groups asked the Supreme Court to review
the Fourth Circuit Federal Appeals Court’s decision
that would threaten VMI ’s current admissions policy.
Virginia’s five all-women’s colleges filed their own
brief in March. Should the Supreme Court decide to
take the case into consideration, it may reverse the

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  

I

 ‘.

 

  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
      
      
  
  
    
  
     
   
    
     
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
    
   
   
  
     
   
  
    
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
    
     
    
    
     
   
  
  
 

rite Phot
Single-sex formations could be a thing of the past at

VMPit the Supreme Court does not rule on the case.

New pub coming

“That location has been a
W&L hangout for years,” said
Gorman.

Gorman originally hoped to
have a liquor license for The
Raven and Crown by Alumni
Weekend, when his class will
return to Lexington for its five-
year reunion. However, in,.Vir-
ginia, a restaurant must be open
for two weeks before it can get a
liquor license.

According to Gorman, The
Raven and Crown will be open
seven days a week. He said the
restaurant will open for break-
fast at 6 a.m. and will stay open
later as the week progresses.

“I'm willing to stay there as
long as there are people there,’
Gorman said. “I’m sure there
will be nights when I’m there as
late as 3 am.”

No liquor may be served after
2 a.m., said Gorman.

Gorman said it was his part-
ner Esther Scherf—Durham’s idea
to open for breakfast. Scherf-
Durham used to be executive chef
at The Wills()n-Walker House.

The menu will feature break-
fast all day long, sandwiches,
fresh seafood and pasta. Gorman
said he is taking into account that
people are more health—con-
scious,buthe willstillofferham-
burgers, french fries, and onion

rings.

‘ By Andrea Cobrin
Phi News Editor

Another new restaurant is
coming to Lexington.

A former Washington and Lee
student is opening The Raven
and Crown, a new restaurant and
puB, under Mountain Copy
Graphics. i

Owner Chris Gorman envi-
sions an Old English decor for
The Raven and Crown, which he
hopes to open by Alumni Week-
end on May 7.

Gorman said he wants the res-
taurant to cater to W&L and VMI
students as well as to local resi-
dents.

‘‘I want a place that everyone
feels comfortable in,” Gorman
said. “A middle—of-the—road
plade. Not too quiet, not too
loud.” ‘

Gorman was a member of
Washington & Lee’s class of
1988, but did not graduate from
W&L.

The Raven and Crown will be
locged at 16 Lee Avenue. The
space, which has been empty for
two years, previously housed The
Subway, a sandwich shop not
related to the national chain.
Subsequently, it was a meeting
place for Sigma Nu fraternity
whﬂe their house was being reno-
vated.

lower court’s decision, and preserve VMI’s current
admissions policy. ,

The United States Court ofAppeals for the Fourth
Circuit ruled last fall that VMI must admit women to
the school, provide equal educational opportunities
for women or lose their state funding. The court held
that VMI may not continue its all-male admissions
policy because the policy is inconsistent with the
Supreme Court’s interpretation of the Equal Protec-
tion Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Women’s Washington Issues Network (Women-
WIN), Women for VMI, Frank F. Hayden and Oscar

W. King Ill, discuss in their brief
that the Fourth Circuit’s decision
could hurt women’s interests, ac-
cording to a press release from
O’Connor & Harman, a Washing-
ton D.C. law fimt.

They argue that the all-women
admissions policies of Mary
Baldwin College, Southem Virginia
College for Women, Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College, Sweet
Briar College and Hollins College
could be endangered by the circuit
court’s decision. Hampden—
Sydncy’s all-male admissions
policy could also be threatened.

Also in legal jeopardy would be
publicly funded shelters for bat-
tered women or rape crisis counsel-
ing ccnters, which are normally pro-
vided exclusively for women or
have institutional missions targeted
primarily to meet women’s needs,

said the group.
Women-WIN is a non-profit, Virginia corpora-
tion founded by women and committed to the profes-

sional development of women and men who support"

limited government, individual responsibility, and
economic rights.

Women for V MI is an association of5,00() people
who support single—sex education and consider the
educational philosophy of VMI an important option
for men.

Frank Hayden, fomier president of the Detroit
Board of Education, recommended establishing three
public all-male schools in Detroit. He abandoned his
plans as a result of a lawsuit raising a constitutional
challenge identical to the one brought against VMI.

Oscar King, former chairman of the Detroit chap-
ter ofthe Urban League, is a proponent of central city
all-male schools.

The brief states if the circuitcourtdecision stands,
it could jeopardize thelfuture of all single-gender
programs funded by the govemment. The brief
contends that the Equal Protection Clause requires
that states provide “generally comparable access for
women and men to government services.” These
“opportunities may be evaluated in light of the rela-
tive demands and needs of each gender for a particu-
lar service.”

The brief emphasizes the positive benefits that
single—sex education can provide. It observes that
charges of sex discrimination have thwarted at-
tempts to organize single-sex educational programs.

The brief was presented to the Supreme Court
yesterday at 2 p.m. After hearing the presentation,
the court can decide either to review the lower
court’s decision or to let the ruling stand.

to town  

Gorman said the average
breakfast will be about $3, lunch
$5, and dinner $7. The most
expensive item on the menu will
be about Si 1.50.

Gorman said there will be two
beers on tap and about 3() differ-
ent bottled beers.

“We want to have some inter-
esting beers you don’t usually
find,” Gorman said.

The Raven and Cro“wn will
offertakc-outand delivery within
six blocks and will also be avail-
able f or rental, said Gorman.

“I don’t want to bite off more
than I can chew initially,” said
Gorman. “But I do have a lot of
ideas for it.”

Gorman said he and a few
friends came up with the name
for the restaurant. There is a
black raven and a gold crown on
the W&L crest.

“I wanted to have a name that
fit in with the atmosphere,”
Gorman said.

The Raven and Crown will
employ about a dozen workers.
Gorman said they will hire both
W&L students and local resi-
dents. Gorman said he wants to
hold a special grand opening for
the restaurant,‘ but he hasn ’ t made
any definite plans.

“I don’t want to be one of
those places that opens with a
boom and then fizzles out.”

a Rising Class Officers
and EC Reps.

Third-year law EC Rep. --
James Rambeau

Second-year law EC Rep. —
Kevin Webb

Senior EC Reps. —
Kenny Bullock, Allison Lewis

Junior EC Reps. -
Alex Cross, Carol Pierce

Sophomore EC Reps. —
Justin Dardani, David Stewart

Senior class President —
Bill Chappell

Senior class Vice Presidents -
Michelle Hobbs, Kevin Roddy

Junior class President -
Whitney Bludworth

Junior class VicePresident —
Michael Brooks

Sophomore class President -
Bob Turner

Sophomore _class Vice President -
Madeline White

 

Thefts plague
Law Library

By THOMAS HEst>os
Phi News Editor

Washington & Lee’srevered Honor
System may not be enough to deter
thieves from stealing items from the
Law School Library.

According to two Law School Ex-
ecutive Committee Representatives,
studcnt carrel s in the Law Library have
been the targets of numerous petty
thefts.

“It’s been happening all year,” said
First-Year Law E.C. Rep Kevin Webb.
“It deals with stuff from gum and pens
and ranges up to sweatshirts and
walkmans.”

Director of Security,Mike Young
said he believes the crimes are being
committed by townspeople who wait
until after dark to enter the library in
order to steal items from the carrels.
Young said he has reason to suspect a
particular townsperson, but the suspect
disappeared before his suspicions could
be confirmed.

Young said he has instructed the
library staff to report any individuals
they find suspicious-looking to secu-
rity. According to Young, security
staff will approach any suspicious in-
dividual and will ask such an indi-
vidual to leave the premises if they
have no business in the library.

But Webb isn’t so sure that towns-
people are responsible.

“I’d like to think that it's townies,”
said Webb. “Some people have been
saying ‘Hey- some law students have
to be doing this/”

Webb said the thefts are occurring
too often for townspeople to be solely
responsible. He said most of the items
stolen are small, seemingly inconse-
quential items, such as pens, chewing
gum and soft drinks.

But sometimes more expensive

items are taken.

“I had a walkman stolen,” said first-
year law student Shelley Walters.

Walters said she entered the library
at 9 a.m. approximately two weeks ago
to find that someone had gone through
her carrel.

“All the doors were standing wide
open,” she said.

Walters said she discovered that her
walkman was missing, but did not re-
port it to campus security beacuse she
thought the chances that the walkman
would be recovered were slim.

Webb said thefts are reported to him
almost every day. Items reported sto-
len include sweatshirts, tape players,
and a book bag in which a student’s
money was kept.

Third-Year Law EC Replay Sterne
counts himself among the law students
victimized by the thief.

“I had ajacket taken from my car-

rel,” he said.

Sterne said the law library carrels
are equipped with a lockable closet in
which law students can store their valu-
ables.‘ He said he has recommended
that law students take advantage ofthis
feature, despite the presence of the
Honor System. ,

“Once you’re in the W&L commu-
nity, you get that sense of trust in your
environment,” he said.

Webb said he has tried to put an end

to the thefts. He wrote a letter to the .

W&L Law News reviewing the phi-
losophy found in the White Book. He
said there is very little the EC can do in
such situations because no specific stu-
dents are suspected of stealing. Webb
said he prefers that campus security
handle the problem.

Sterne also believes that the prob-
lem is out of the EC’s hands.

“Unfortunately, therc’s not much
we can do,” he said.

EC rejects latest
budget proposal

By FRANCESCA KIEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

The Executive Committee rejected
the bulk of the year's second proposed
budget reformation March 30, while
unanimously voting for one of its ar-
ticles. ~

Second-year law student Laura
Anderson first proposed the budget
policy March 15. The proposal con-
sisted of five articles and proposed the
EC adopt a neutral policy of funding,
which would allow the EC to fund all
organizations, including partisan
groups. The last attempt at budget
reformation was made on February 1,
when ACLU President Andrew
Schneider proposed a policy to allow
the EC to fund partisan groups.

Anderson told the EC, if adopted,
the new proposal would give all groups
the opportunity to receive funds re-
gardless of current or past partisan ties.

The EC discussed the proposal, but
did not vote at the time. Anderson
returned to the EC March 29, at which
point they voted on the proposal.

The EC unanimously voted in favor
of article three of the proposal, which
said all organizations funded by the EC
must be open to all members of the
University community. Articles two
and four were rejected by an eight to
five vote. .

Article two said the EC “will not
punish or reward a student group for
taking aposition of social importance.”

Article four said EC-funded groups
could not require dues. The purpose of
the article was to ensure that all stu-
dents, regardless of economic status,
could participate in student organiza-
tions.

The EC did not motion to vote on
articles one and five. Article one called
for funding of all groups, partisan or
non-partisan. Article five, which was
inconsequential unless the whole pro-
posal was passed, setup funding groups.

Anderson said her greatest concern
is the EC’s ability to change its budget-
ing policy at will.

“Hopefully the idea of getting some-
thing codified will be passed on,”

Anderson said. “People need to realize
the possibilities ofadifferent EC doing
things their own way.” '

EC Presidcntlosh MacFarland said
the only two guides the EC has for
policy-making are the White Book and
the Student Body Constitution. The
only guideline the EC has for budget-
ing is a statement adopted November
2.

That policy states the EC will not
“directly fund politically and ideologi-
cally partisan organizations. The Ex-
ecutive Committee will remain neutral
on issues of national politics and politi-
cal ideology.”

Anderson’s proposal received
strong opposition from several EC
members. EC Vice President Ames
Hutton told Anderson the current bud-
get policy works fine.

“In my opinion you’re trying to fix
something we do not perceive as bro-
ken.”

Junior EC Rep. Ashby Hackney
warned Anderson about trving to
change things too quickly.

“People come to W&L for what it
stands for,” Hackney said. “Granted,
everything needs to change. But this is
W&L and it’s not going to change
overnight.”

Freshman EC Rep. Peter Agelasto
voted for all three articles of the new
proposal. Agelasto said the current
policy stilles groups anti keeps them
from becoming active in the Washing-
ton and Lee community.

“I maintain that it is broke for me,
and if it’s broke for me, it's broke,”
Agelasto said.

Third-year Law Rep. Jay Sterne,
Second-Year Law Rep. James
Rambeau and Sophomore Reps. Carol
Pierce and Robert Stewart also voted
for all three ariiclcs.

Anderson said she will continue to
work on a codified budget next year.
She said she doesn’t mind writing re-

jected proposals as long as the EC
makes informed decisions.

“Disagree or agree, but be informed

about your decision,” Anderson said. ,

“l’ll spoon feed, they cart knock it
down.”

  

  

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 itlingi-tum iﬂlii

Founded September 18, 1897

The all-new,
improved Phi

“I heard you missed us... we're back!!!”
——David Lee Roth, Hot for Teacher

Yes, the rumors you have heard buzzing around campus like so
many spring bumblebees are true. The Phi is back, but this time we
brought a few new friends with us. Most of our new editors.
including some of the ones responsible for this editorial, have
never been editors at the Phi before. So you ask, what's the point?
Well, believe it ornot, we're really excited about ournew staff. We
know what you're thinking: The Florida Marlins are excited about
theirnew staff, but they're not writing editorials about it. Bear with
us.

Like so many major corporations today, the Phi has subjected
itself to radical reform. We have downsized our staff, infused the
tired, old Phi with fresh new talent and transfonned it into the new,
rejuvenated Phi. So what does all this mean to you? It means a
better newspaper. ‘

We have just one request: tell us what you think about the papers

we put out. If you have questions or suggestions about policy,

editorial decisions, or coverage call the executive editor, managing
editor, or one of the news editors. Anyone is welcome to come into
our office, which is located in the University Center room 208, to
talk to an editor. h

The new, improved Phi staff is dedicated to putting out a quality
newspaper every week.

Havefun
and be careful

Your Mom and Dad have probably used similar words of
warning before, but they are just as relevant now as they were then.
Every Spring Term, W&L students flock to Goshen, Panther Falls
and other places to swim and have fun in the sun. Unfortunately,
“nature's water parks” are not without their hazards.

Such recreational areas have a dark history. Students who injure
themselves at these springtime havens often escape after minor
mishaps: a skinned knee here, a bruised am there. Others are not
so lucky. ,

The sad truth is that some of the more serious accidents could be
prevented by using common sense. Remember that alcohol and
rivers don’t mix. Most importantly, use good judgement in your
springtime excursions. The Phi would hate to have to report a
tragedy.

No More Quarters

Effective immediate1y,The Ring-tum Phi will be available to all
members of the Washington and Lee community free of charge.

. We feel that it is important that the faculty and staff , as well as the

students, be informed of campus events. The Phi will be available
at the University Center and at the Co-op. Enjoy.

Quote of the Week

“Just because he sold the most albums doesn't mean he's the
best. By that logic, rice would be the best food, Escorts would be
the best car, Muslim would be the best religion and living in China
would be really cool.'’

—a Washington & Lee student on Michael Jacksorfs claim to be
the King of Pop

    
  
    
 

/

I // /‘
/

 

WASHINGTON —— Strange thoughts beat upon
the brain. Such as: Who held the camera so steadily,
and why? ‘

In the black—and—white photograph, a naked girl,

perhaps six years old,
dangles, gripped by the

    

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

framed by bolted steel - the Nazi solution to the
problem of the intense heat of hard-used crematoria.
The building suggests a closed world without soft-
ness, other than that of ﬂesh. The building seems
contorted by anxiety: Angles
are odd, implying ﬁssures in

  
 
   

neck in the coarse hands
of a strong woman (we
see nothing of the woman
above her biceps). The
child, eyes closed, looks
uncomfortable but re-
signed to, and used to,
rough handling. Her face
is being wrcnched around
to face the camera. The
description of the photograph in the display in the new
Holocaust Memorial Museum reads: “A mentally
disabled girl photographed shortly before her mur-
der.”

We know the minds of the articulate haters whose
ideologies fuel mass murder. But who can fathom the
mind of the unknown photographer?

The murder of the mentally handicapped was
rehearsal for the Holocaust, the story of which is told
with cold, controlled fury in the museum's artifacts
and images. Visitors to the museum will see film (on
screens behind walls too high for children to see over)
of mob animalism and other cruelties so savage that
they seem to suck the oxygen from the room. But the
museum also tells horrifying truths with blander im-
ages.

Near the photograph of the dangling girl is a
photograph of a big building, taken from across the
tops of a town's leafy trees. It is summer, yet dark
smoke pours from the building’s chimney. The build-
ing is a euthanasia center with a erematorium. The
residents of the town had» to.know.,-. 

The'H9l°causlvMuS.<?mI i=.iﬂicts@1<ir!s1°fex<=ruci-ti’
ating knowing. Architecture is high art when the way .

it frames space compels a frame of ‘mind. The Holo-
caust Museum — the building and the experiences it
synchronizes — is a masterpiece in response to an
obscenity.

The hard, assaultive building is made of brick

- GEORGE WILL

Washington Post
Writers Group

the foundation of things. Visi-
tors have a sense of being
loomed over by stnictures evok-
ing guard towers. Arising stair-
way intimates a railroad, and
leads to an arch that insinuates
into the mind's eye the gate
over the tracks atthe Auschwitz-
Birkenau concentration camp.

Visitors begin their journey
into darkness in elevators, rising to the fourth floor
while hearing the voices of American soldiers in
Germany 48 Aprils ago.

The soldiers are saying that they have stumbled on
a horror down the road. The
elevators’ dark steel doors part
as visitors face a wall-sized
picture of charred bodies
stacked like cordwood. Thus
begins an immersion in evil,
and an encounter with hero-
ism in the face of it.

A square three-story tower
within the museum is lined
with photographs from a
Lithuanian community where
a 900-year tradition of Jewish
life was machine-gunned to
death in two days. The soaring

literature.

The Holocaust Museum
inﬂicts a kind of excruci-
ating knowing. Architec-
ture is high art when the
way it frames space com-
pels a frame of mind. The
iHolocaust Museum—the
building and the experi-
tower of strongimages of Jew- ences It SyI_‘chr_onlzes —_ ls
ishvitality suggests how much a masterpiece In response
thenuinbensixmillion under- ; r  K , ' ,  , 
.statestheloss.:Thinkof all the .  an °t'S°°n'ty" ‘
generations that will not hap-  "  '   "  ' '  ’
pen. _

Some people will wonder:
Why situate this museum, this experience of dark-
ness, amidst the Mall’s glistening monuments to the
success of our society? One answer is: Because one

I,‘ ., r.-

be deterred.

@1112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi of lice, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON — In his Tues-
day press conference, Bill Clinton
spoke with the refreshing language of
America’s first post-Cold War Presi-
dent. »
Rather than recast the Russian con-
stitutional standoff as yet another Cold
W a r r i o r ' s

much less likely to start wars. Gov-
ernments that must regularly submit
themselves to voter approval are un-
likely, it seems, to become police states
at home or troublemakers abroad.
Our third and, yes, last priority:
creating a “market economy” in Rus-

 
 
 
   

sia.

test Of U.S. It's an
‘‘f€S0lV€.’’ 38 impressive
R i c h a r d CHRISTOPHER list. not so
Nixon and muchforits
€l>JlhS0TS 01] 1:0 MATTHEWS boldness as

. . rig t . . itshumilit .
have in- Tribune Media [1 U ,1 , nyg
sisted, the SCVICCS peace be-
young PrCSi- tween our
dent put the two com]-
episode in its tries first ad-

proper post-1991 context.

The fight between President Boris
Yeltsin and his country's hold-over
Congress, he said, is a matter for Rus-
sians to decide, not Americans.

In stating his case, Clinton offered
just the right set of US. priorities
toward post-communism to Russia:
peace, democracy, free markets — in
that order.

‘ Peace is the premier issue. Russia,
under any ideology, has the resources
and temperament to be a superpower.
We have spent a half century intelli-
gently fearful of Soviet imperialism.
We don’t want to spend the next cen-
tury worried about Russian imperial-
ism.

We have a historic, if secondary,
interest in Russia adapting to democ-
racy. We know from experience that
countries likely to hold elections are

mits the truth that so many Cold War
veterans reject: Russians, at least as
much as mostcountrics, resent Amcri -
can interference in theirdomestie poli-
tics.

This is the great lesson of the Cold
War’s worst catastrophe, Vietnam.
Nothing stirs a country's latent na-
tionalism like the unwanted attentions
of a gung-ho outsider.

This is true even with loiig-term
alliances. If the World War’ ll Britain
resented our presence — “Overpaid,
oversexed, over here!" was the famil-
iar refrain — consider what the frus-
trated Russian thinks today of big-
shot America telling him what leader
he should obey, what government he
should accept, what economic system
he should pursue.

Before we offer anything else to
the Russians, we should first offer

  sec chasfis

To the Editor:

LETTERS

es Phi April Fools issue

them our respect. President Clinton
set that tone in his Tuesday press
conference when he warned Ameri-
cans against saying anythingthatmight
“undermine or rigidify" what's hap-
pening in Russian politics today.

As Henry Kissinger warned this
week: “How would Americans react
if a Russian leader were to announce
that he is backing the President in a
dispute with Congress?” ,

Ourfirst
post-Cold
 1°33 Ifthe World WarIIBrit-
ri mm ut- am resented our resence
‘g G‘ p [
f(‘“8r :”"~"; —“Overpaid, oversexed,
ec0,,0,,,y~» over here!” was the fa-
last among miliar refrain—consider
9'5‘ ‘”'°"' what the frustrated Rus-
tics. _ _ .
w h a r sian thinks today of big-
5“°““““‘“' shot America telling him
ter to this
c,,,,,,,,,, is what leader he should.
:01 , that obey, what government
USSIH ’O
caphangl, he should accept, what
but that it economic system he‘
““““5W.“Y should pursue. '
[O 21 SOCl0- '
economic
system that

works for Russia.

Unreconstructed Cold Warriors
and their nco-conservative offspring
sketch today's Russian politics in
terms of good guys and bad guys.
“Reformers” want free markets.
They're the good guys. Those who

message of the museum is that there is no permanent
safety in social arrangements. The Mall’s welcom-
ing openness and reasonable geometry make it an
-analogue of our national experience, which is the
best of the West. However, the Holocaust Museum,
by holding up for scrutiny a radical evil that erupted
in the middle of the West in the middle of the 2()th
century, reminds us that the most that can ever be
said with certainty, anywhere, is: So far, so good.
Butitalmostdiminishes the museum's dignity to
cite its usefulness. A sufficient reason for it is to
keep faith with those who suffered, by telling their
truth. This the museum does, with the power of

In 1989, l visited death camps in Poland as part
of a delegation accepting some of the artifacts now
displayed in the museum. That trip, although har-
rowing, did not prepare me for the power of this
museum, which left me literally short of breath,
suffocated by a sadness related to something Primo b

Levi wrote.

Levi was an Auschwitz
survivor. (Perhaps, in a
sense, not. In 1987, still a
prisoner of his memory and
haunted by the thought that
the world's memory ofthe

c s reflection .

I

holocaust was fading, he ’

killed himself.) Levi wrote
about the “interminable
death” that a survivor of
torture suffers.

He quoted a Belgian
Jew who survived

Auschwitz: “Anyone who 9

has suffered torture never
again will be able to be at
ease in the world.” That

A , rr1ankille‘dhimselfinl978..,

The Holocaust Mu-'

seum, experienced deeply, 4 '
will annihilate the possi-9

bility of feeling quite at ease. Be warned, but do not

© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

Clinton can't afford Russian mistakes

oppose them are the bad guys.

()ur own history shows the lie in this
argument. America’s majestic economic
abundance has come not just from free
markets alone but from a combination of
enterprises: free markets together with ac
powerful network of social welfare. We
have Social Security for retired people,
welfare for the disabled and others who
cannot fend for themselves in a capitalist

system.

Thriving capitalist

democracies such 

' Gcrmany,France,Brit-
am and the Scandina-
vian countries have
even stronger “safety
nets.”ls it wrong to ex-
pect Russians, who
have never known f recg
markets, to want a
safety net of their own
put in place before they
take the leap into free
markets?

Clinton has his pri-
orities first. Peace.
first; democracy, sec-
ond; a market
economy, last. Change
will take time coming
toRussia.Thebestcase
for American aid is

that, without it, change .
might take so long that the Russian people
will lose heart. The worst case for aid is
that American dollars give Americans the
right to tell Russians how to live. Isn't that
precisely what we accused THEM of try-
ing to do to US all those years?
©1993 Tribune Media Services

Washington and Lee has an tmderlying philosophy
of trust pervading all aspects of student life to the
White Book. In mutual trust among students there
exists free speech. According to our Constitution and
succeeding case law the April Fool's Day issue of The
Ring-tum Phi was a legally irreproachable publica-
tion. The Student Conduct Committee will respect the
Constitutional right to free speech, particularly that
greater deference accorded the press in matters of the
First Amendment.

With such overwhelming privilege, however, ex-
ists great responsibility. The Student Conduct Com-

mittee feels that the incoming editorial board for The
Ring-tum Phi should reflect on that responsibility
and consider the philosophy of trust that is the basis
for our lifestyle here at Washington and Lee. The
April Fool 's issue was designed to shock and outrage
at the expense of good taste and consideration of the
reading audience. Visitors, not to mention the student
body, at Washingtonaiid Lee that week were submit-
ted to what amounted to bar room talk that lacked any
intellectual or humorous worth. Children visiting the
campus were presented with filth that did not speak
well of the decorum of Washington and Lee students.
The 1992-93 Editorial Board should be ashamed of

its final edition.

We hope that the next April Fool's issue will
better reﬂcct the talent and creativity of journalists
on our campus. The Student Conduct Committee is
certain that there is greater ability as well as respoii— V
sibility among The Riiig—tum Phi Editorial Board. 9
We hope that the next time the Editorial Board prints
for mere shock value they will consider the mutual
trust of the Washington and Lee community and the
responsibility they have to honor that trust.

Sincerely,
The Student Conduct Committee C

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

LETTERS

Students disagree with Phi parody issue

To the Editor:

H We would like to take this opportu-
nity to express our unfettered disgust
with the mock Phi ofApril 1, l993.The
unchecked depravity of the articles and
ads sickens us beyond belief. We are
embarrassed to admit that this publica-
tion purports to represent our school.
Ms. Lopiccoloand Mr. Peltz have gone
so far into the realm of bad taste that we
cannot believe that they are students of
Washington and Lee, let alone the edi-
tors of the university sanctioned and
funded newspaper.

In an attempt, we suppose, to be
hgmorous and risque, the editors de-
scended into the pits of vulgarity and
depravity. This issue falls into what
any sensible person at this university
would term obscene. In addition, the
Phi violates nearly every facet of the
conduct expected of every lady and
g§]ntleman of this university. Undoubt-
e y, General Lee is spinning in his
grave at this egregious enormity.

The continuous references to sexual
intercourse and deviant forms of be-
havior offend any sensible reader, and
the better part of the food chain. Once

I

To the Editor:

How dare the editors of The Ring-tum Phi breach
any semblance of existing decency (ironically: “Erec-
tion Man” and child pornography) and flaunt their
journalistic ineptitude at my moral and ﬁnancial ex-
pense. Under the pretense of April Fool’s Day, have
the editors of a school publication the irreproachable

again the Phi has reassertcd itself as the
undisputed campus leader in ultra-
sophomoric, gutter-level humor, and
established a new nadir ofjournalistic
“ethics” (an oxymoron, apparently) for
next year’s editors to strive for.

Perhaps in search of true parody
next April, ifthe Phi is still existent at
W&L next April, the incoming editors
would be better served to model their
efforts after Jonathan Swift rather than
Larry Flynt.

Never has a better reason to re-
examine the now abandoned psycho-
logical theories of Dr. Sigmund Freud
been so succinctly encapsulated than
in this sexually frustrated drivel.

On a more speciﬁc level, we are
offended by the ﬂippant and disre-
spectful nature of the article towards
speciﬁc faculty members and espe-
cially President Wilson. lmplying that
President Wilson is some sort of hor-
monally imbalanced fiend is not only
devoid of any sense of decorum, but is
ignorant of possible damage inflicted
upon signiﬁcant others, i.e. his spouse
and loved ones.

Washington and Lee may indeed

The only justice to result from this outrage would
be for the prospective employer of an aspiring Phi
staff member to discover such a true sample of incom-
petence before making the dreadful mistake of hiring

the dilettante.

prerogative to slander faculty, airpersonal vengeance,

and abandon all protocol in language and subject?
Purporting to serve the W&L community, the Phi

Shame on y’all,

certainly committed a disservice to Admissions. Any

prospective who misfortuned across last week’ s news-
pa r hopefully - assuming admissions standards
demand a modicum of intellect - has a tarnished
impression of our college. Is there no taste or ac-
countability in journalism today  not even at W&L.

To the Editor:

Irresponsible, immature, and repulsive conduct.
Our honorable namesake would be most disappointed.

Todd 8. Cloaninger, ’95

During our four years at W&L, we have managed
to overlook the Phi’s abundance of inaccuracies and
its amateurish attempts at reporting. We cannot, how-
ever, ignore the April Fool’s issue. Along with not

have its ﬁrst case of real sexual harass-
ment, but, () Irony, the perpetrators of
this most heinous and pusillanimous
act are not the favored whipping boys
in the star chambers of Washington
Hall, fraternity males, but the Hill’s
own puppet publication, The Ring-tum
hi

If all this foofaraw over sexual ha-
rassment incessantly belched forth by
assorted deans is not invoked in this
case, it will ﬁnally be exposed as the
outright, toothless, intellectually bank-
rupt, propaganda piece that it is.

To ignore this case, in light of uni-
versity officials’ attempts to foment
others from far more innocuous and
less personally motivated circum-
stances, would be the ultimate hypoc-
risy, and if they yield, citing intended
humor, albeit feeble, they will have
provided theirown Achilles heel in any
future case of verbal or written harass-
ment: ‘‘It was supposed to be a joke.
I’m sorry.” End of case.

Does the ultimate litmus test of
sexual harassment boil down in whose
eye “humor” is held, the beholder or
the beheld? We do not envy the Deans

We point

on this one, to be sure: Damned if you
do, damned if you don’t, eh? Some
advice to the Phi editors: never is a
journalist’s credibility or code of eth-
ics more in question than when his
actions cause him to become part of
the story that he is attempting to cover
or relay. If you don’t believe us, ask
Peter Amett or Wes Sarginson.

In closing, we would like to apolo-
gize on behalf of the decent and re-
spectful students of Washington and
Lee to anyone offended by the content
of the April Fool’sedition of The Ring-
tum Phi, the”news”paper that unfortu-
nately bears our University’s name.
This unwarranted attack on the values
held by any sensible human being is
utterly reprehensible, without any ar-
tistic or journalistic merit, and is not
indicative in any way of the character
that General Lee attempted to mani-
fest within those students who studied
under him, and still manifests itself in
the vast majority of W&L students
today.

Richard C. Burke, ’93
John R. McNeer, ’93

bearing even a slight resemblance to humor, the
edition proved tasteless, crass, and offensive to all.

out that many alumni and parents of

students receive the Phi and we cringe in imagining

their reactions to some of the personal ads.

We suggest in the future - you jokester Phi
editors, you - that you keep your sexual perversions

out of print and that if you don’t have anything nice
to say, then don’t say anything at all.

Jennifer Barrows, ’93
Meredith Edwards, '93

Jerilyn Farren, ’93
Amy Myers, ’93
Melissa Naraval, ’93
Elissa Pruett, '93

Readers find fault with student's opinions

To the Editor:

GT0 be honest I was not surprised
by Justin Peterson’s letter in the
March 18 Phi, attacking the Repub-
lican Party. I didn’t read the letter by
Paul Wright to which he was re-
sponding, but I can imagine what it
said.

I want to make it very clear that
the Republican party is a very di-
verse party. It embraces people of
every race, religion, and class. More-
over, it is home to people of wildly

differing political philosophies. For —

this reason, I think that portraying the
party asa’whole as nothing more than

monolithic organization of “moral
ankruptcy” IS unfair.

I, for one, believe very ﬁrmly that
America must strive to rform a
positive role in the world. he Ameri-
can people were consistently satis-
tied with President Bush’s conduct
of foreign policy, it should be re-
mﬂmbered, and with good reason.
The Persian Gulf was a complicated
situation, to be sure. Self-interest was
definitely apartof our actions against
Saddam Hussein. But I would re-
mind Mr. Peterson that President

Bush’s rationale for involvement was
also animated by a deep sense of
Christian com assion for the Ku-
waiti people. ur reasons were not
totally pure - we admit that — but we
did do the right thing. The same can
be said of Somalia.

To sum up, I am proud to be a
member of the Republican party, a
party which was consistently seen as
“idealistic” and “humanitarian” role
for the United States in world af-
fairs. I ampfottd‘tI'ia§IIiW.tii1a€world

that--has been-positively -influenced
(on balance) by the constructive ef-
forts of members of both political
parties. In fact, I am even proud to
live in a country where narrow-
minded and insensitive attitudes to-
ward the world are quickly exposed
by decent Americans like Justin
Peterson.

The work of peace still beckons
us, and I he e that Mr. Peterson will
join those 0 us in the intemationalist
wings of both parties to see that it
gets done. I am sure that he will.

Nicholas L. Waddy, ’96

‘Sports coverage biased

. To the Editor:

I am writing in regard to the selec-
tive coverage of your sports section.
Mgre specifically, I am writing to you
about the horrible bias in what sports
get space and what get zero recogni-
tion.

Since the spring season has begun,
the baseball team has gotten ﬁrst class
coverage about their many thrilling
deffats while the Washington and Lee
go team prospers in obscurity.

I am an avid golf fan and I would
very much like to see articles about this
team which last time I checked, was

doing much better than the baseball
team. The past few times I have turned
to the sports page I have been very
disappointed because the golf team has
been neglected every time.

This angers me more than disap-
points me because you are inferring
that golf is an inferior sport, which it
certainly is not.

Perhaps you will listen to me and
pay attention to the golf team and other
neglected sports because if you do not,
you'll have one less reader or campus.

Jay Didier, ’96

To the Editor:

Mr. Peterson’s letter regarding the
“unambitious outlook” of the Contact
Committee came as quite a surprise.
He hastily fails to see beyond the names
of several of the Contact speakers, and
probably did not attend the lectures to
which he referred in his March 11
letter. Men such as Dick Vitale, Rocky
Bleier, G. Gordon Liddy, Ed Meese,
contrary to Mr. Peterson’s opinions,
have plenty to.offer-.t  

~. ,. . . Last year’s Dick v\litala.speeclLwas.t K
' one of the best" attended Contact events *'

of the year. While his speech did fre-
quently refer to sports, the main thrust
of his presentation was to promote
higher education and discourage dmg
abuse. Frivolous ideas? Wasted money?

Similarly, Mr. Bleier’s talk was also
well-attended and a truly inspiring dis-
course on overcoming adversity. If one
actually attended the speech and heard
the challenges Mr. Bleier faced, I
hardly think that one would call him a
“trivial celebrity;” I’m sure that the
thousands of Vietnam veterans would
agree.

I recognize the fact that Mr. Peterson
and others on this campus do not agree
with the ideas and outlook of G. Gor-
don Liddy or Ed Meese. That is clearly
their right, and I admire their convic-

tions. However, if they can find politi-
cal speakers with everyone in the W&L
community will agree, I suggest that
they interview for my job.

As for the general jab at the so-
called conservatism of our committee,
it is unfounded. Contact played a key
role in bringing both James Farrar and
Faye Wattleton to our campus. I do not
believe that they are conservative, but
correct me if I am wrong.

In terms -'of'educational speakers,

;_'Dor-Nerf, the producer of “Columbus
and the Age of Discovery.” He deliv-
ered an historically accurate, entenain-
in g presentation on Columbus’ discov-
ery of America. Incidentally, this
thought-provoking, educational
speaker was the worst—attended lecture
of our series.

I appreciate the concern and interest
in the nature of lectures sponsored and
co-sponsored by Contact. It pleases me
to know that many people take an inter-
est in the work that our committee does
throughout the year. However, I do not
appreciate ignorant, unfounded, biased
slander against Contact. Please get your
facts straight, Mr. Peterson.

David C. DeMilt, ’93
Contact Committee Chairman

Phi golf coverage lacking

To the Editor:

I am quite upset about your lack of
golf coverage in the Ring-tum Phi.
Not only is it a spring sport that seems
to go unnoticed, it is one of W&L’s

Spos ties up loose ends

Spos’ Space

By Tom Hespos

Mr. Solomon’s office via a clipping service. Mr. Solomon

oSo... did everybody have a good Spring Break? Good.
I’m glad. All of you beer-swigging party types probably
went to Daytona and got completely smashed. Spos spent

makes a weak attempt in his letter to purge Ernest and Julio
of my accusations regarding their conspiracy to comer the

cheap wine market.

Mr. Solomon claims that, although Gallo docs» produce
Thunderbird, it does not produce MD 20/20 or Lightning
Creek. Mr. Solomon goes on to provide historical back-

most successful athletic programs. I
would appreciate seeing some golf
coverage in the upcoming issues.

Scott Miller, ’96

    
 

Mt, My. Ilm sranveo

-Mr‘.-«Petersonb must-' have missed ‘Zvi'

l

 

PAGE 3

 

Republicans

There will be a College Repub-
licans Meeting on March 23 at 7:30
p.m. in the Mock Convention of-
fice. The debate topic is base clos-
ings.

Big Siblings

Big Brothers and Big Sisters are
needed for incoming exchange stu-
dents from Japan and Hong Kong.
Anyone interested should contact
Professor Rogers at 463-8936.

Casablanca

Have you recently checked out
the videotape Casablanca from the
University Library? Someone has
returned the case with the wrong
videotape in it. Please check to see
if you have done this and, if so,
return the correct tape as soon as
possible to the circulation desk.

Horse Center

The 6th Annual Bonnie Blue Na-
tional Horse Show will run May l2-
l5 at the Virginia Horse Center in
the newly completed indoor Horse
Center Coliseum. The show begin;
at 7:00 p.m. each night with an ad-
ditional show at 10:00 a.m. on May
I5. Admission is $4.00 for adults
and free for children 10 and under.
For further information call (703)
463-3237.

VICAP

The Virginia Insurance Coun-
seling and Advocacy Project
(VICAP) is seeking volunteers to
provide health insurance counsel-
ing services to Virginians age 60
and older. Volunteers will be trained
in May to assist clients with enroll-
ment, claims ﬁling, and decisions
about insurance policies. For more
information, contact VICAP Project
Supervisor Jodi Teitelman at (804)
225-2639.

Live Drive

Anyone interested in driving or
coordinating for Live Drive please
call Binky at 463-4917.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt

FLC

The Freshman Leadership Coun-
cil is sponsoring a three-on—one bas-
ketball tournament on Saturday,
May l.The winning team will win
Sl0(), the runner-up $50. Sign-ups
begin April 29 in frontofthc Co—op.

Triathalon

The Kappa Alpha Theta
Triathalon will be held on Sunday,
May 2. Register in front of the Co-
op April 23, 26, and 27, I 1:00 a.m.
to 1:00 p.m. The cost is,Sl5 per
individual, $36 for relay teams of
three. All participants will receive a
free T-shirt. Proceeds will go to
charity.

Kuwait Speech

Major Edward L. Bowie, ’80,
will give a lecture on his anthropo-
logical experiences while on duty
in Kuwait. He will be in Newcomb
9 tonight at 7:00 p.m. His lecture is
sponsored by the Departments of
Sociology, Anthropology. and the
International Club. Refreshments
will be served.

Humor Writers

The Phi is looking for humor
columnists. If interested please call
Richard at 463-8581, and submit a
writing sample.

  WLUR

WLUR will begin its spring se-
mesterbroadcastingschedule at6:30
a.m. tomorrow.

Letters

Letters to the editor and My
Views may be sent to The Ring-
tum Phi office in room 208 of the
University Center. Small opinion
cartoons will also be accepted. All
submissions are due Tuesdays at
noon. Anonymous submissions will
not be published. Submission:-. are
printed in the order in which they
are received.

FOC

The Freshman Orientation Commit-
tee will meet on Monday at 6:00 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center. All
members must attend.

    

 

his Spring Break installing automatic lawn sprinklers for the
Long Island elite. (For a greener, more beautiful lawn, call
Greenway Lawn Sprinklers at (516)653-4600!) The work
was a pain in the butt, but at least I have money for Foxﬁeld.

.Things have been hectic lately. The FAX transmissions
have been piling up at Spos
Central Command to the point

ground on Thunderbird. Here’s an excerpt:

“The Thunderbird introduction in the mid-l95()’s in-
cluded television advertising featuring Sebastian Cabot,
Tab Hunter, Caesar Romero and James Mason... Their
appeal did not extend to Skid Row.”

Sheah...right!
Please, Mr. Solomon,

‘of being declared hazards to
aviation by the FAA. Soplease
allow me to get some of this
stuff out of the way.

.,First, Spos would like to
sincerely thank those rising
seniors who voted for him in
the recent election for class
president (all l4of you). Any-
way, the masses have spoken.

Sheah...right! Please, Mr. Solomon,
explain why several self-respecting ce-
lebrities would endorse a wine that costs
about as much as a roach motel and
tastes like battery acid. Because they
got paid. That’s why.

explain why several
self -respectin g celebri -
ties would endorse a
wine that costs about as
much as a roach motel
and tastes like battery
acid. Because they got
paid. That’s why.
Also, Gallo may not
directly produce MD

Congratulations to Bill

Chappell, whose margin of

vigtory in the election was nothing short of embarrassingly
massive. Spos now realizes that running on the “better
senior party” platform may not have served his interests in
the optimal way. So what if the rising senior class would
rather have a smoothly-running student government than a
senior party blowout complete with 147 kegs and Guns ‘N’
Roses. It’s their choice.

‘Secondly, Spos recently received a brief note from one
Daniel T. Solomon, communications director for Ernest &
Julio Gallo Winery in Modesto, California. It seems that a
copy of Spos’ column on cheap wine had found its way to

20/20 or Lightning
Creek, but my sources
in New York maintain that Gallo indirectly owns the coni-
panies thatdoproduce them. You can't fool the Sposmeister.

All kidding aside, Spos would like to thank Mr. Solomon .

for his kind letter, which he closes by inviting Spos to raise
a glass of wine together. One of these days, Mr. Solomon,
we will drink together. You will understand if Spos brings
his own wine selection, I hope.

To conclude this week ’s column, Spos would like to wish
everyone a fun-ﬁlled exciting weekend. Just remember,
Foxﬁeld can be fun, even if you don't get to see the horses.
I'll see you there. Tallyho!

   

    
  
 

We swvttfve vuaucwr
0‘ ‘nus Fins-1'} @3591

MW 70 Fwsu arr -rnxsrs.’

   

A;-ran A HNJD DAVE WORK
OF ETHNIC C.LEN~l.'>lNG

  
   

Docuwzo: To THOSE wuo MAV twreopnrr THI5 A5 ANOTHER ANT:-Mtttmw
t_iaEaAt_ BLEEDING-HEART CAQTOON: Ger A CLUE

©1993, Todd Peacock, The Northern Iowan

 

 

PAGE 4

By MEG KINDER and JEANNE BRIGGS
of the Ring-tum Phi

B y this time, most students at Washington and Lee
have had the chance to hear Southern Comfort and Jubilee,
our all-male and all-female a capella groups. They have

given a number of entertaining and high-spirited perfor- V

mances throughout the year.

But many students may not be aware that there is a third
co-ed a capella group called General Admission which was
founded this year by freshmen Gretchen Hall and Phaedra
Cianciulli.

twice a week throughout winter term.

A Hall and Cianciulli share responsibility for the group;
Hall works on the business end, making arrangements and
dealing with the administration, while Cianciulli handles
the musical aspect. The groups’s faculty advisor is Ms.
Courtney Birch.

The group has prepared a wide variety of songs ranging
from folk to spirituals to alternative groups such as They
Might Be Giants for their upcoming concert, which will take
place on Wednesday, April 28th at 8 p.m. in the GHQ.
General Admission will bejoined by the Virginia Bells and
the Hullabahoos, the all—female and all-male a capella
groups from UVa.

An unusual aspect of General Adrnission’s performance
is that they incor-

Hall and Cianciulli orga-
nized the group, which cur-
rently has seven women and g
six men, because they saw
the need for a vocal group _
that combined women and
men.

“The all-male and all—fe-
male groups on campus are
very good, and we thought it
was just as likely that a co-ed
group can do as well,”

porate comical
skits along the
lines of Saturday
Night Live and
Monty Python
into their reper-
toire.

Hall stressed
the emphasis that
the group places
on fun. “We
wanted to get to-

Cianeiulli said. ,
“There are some things gem” fmd Smg
that are harder to accomplish ‘_h° mus“? ma‘ we
musically with a single sex 1‘k°’a“d “ Snbcen
group, though the groups on 3 1,0‘ 0f fun’ She
campus do very well,” 5a‘d- she 315° 3*’
Cianciulli said. “A co-ed pressed the hope

group has a wider range of
voices, from soprano to
bass.”

Hall said, “We wanted to
offer something different.
We wanted to give more of
an opportunity on campus for students to be a part of an a
capella group.”~

Hall and Cianciulli patterned the new group after similar
groups at other universities and colleges such as the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania and the University of Virginia.

Hall and Cianciulli held auditions before Winter break,
and the singers that were selected have been rehearsing

  

General Admission rehearses for Tuesday’s concert

that General Ad-
mission will de-
velop into a well
respected and im-
portant part of
W&L culture.
Cianciulli said, “T he music’s been a lot of fun, and it’s
also been great getting to know everyone. We have a
diverse group of people that has really come together.”
The members of General Admission are Jennifer Fern,
Kate Wood, Allyson Gardner, Kim Gartrell, Gretchen Hall,
Robin King, Phaedra Cianciulli, Rob Neel, S.R. Evans,
Shaf Holden, Peter Dishman, Tom Keman, and Colin

Wynne. L

A

I’Iiolo Iiy Bethany Smith, The Ring-Iwn Phi

 

gm‘ 9”” 

11 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

Robby Jones I '
~ r(...7.‘»’«3-.)..«fi.‘7’.3f."’-‘3—+°-Z A

  
 

    

23  Main St.
Lexin ton, VA 24450

     

 

/

K

2.»...

MEANS LOW PRICES

 

25% OFF SALE
TYSON JUMBO PACK

 

 

LB.    

U.S.D.A. IE
ma EYE ROAST on

RIB EYE

 
    
    
 

DRUMSTICKS it  1;  "
OR THIGHS  v

 

STEAK  ta.

    

 

      
 

‘_ n
J .i
:

.r._3‘
U.S.D.A.
CHOICE

5 LB. BAG WHITE POTATOES OR

. BAG
YELLBLOW ONIONS

EACH

 
 

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

2 LITER

   

 
   
 
 
   

REDUCED

 

FEATURES

New co-ed group sings, performs

All Wint‘erfMe'rc‘handise ,-
50% Oﬁ”

  
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

Am I Bisexual?

Student questions sexuality after homosexual encounter

future plans for commitment are with women mean you
are squarely in the heterosexual end of the continuum.
Unless" you begin more regularlyexperiencing gay sex I
couldn't even describe you as bisexual.

Perhaps the experience you have had can be instruc-
tive. In the first place it may take you past labels and
stereotypes. More than that it may empower you to see
beyond homophobia and to embrace a vision of sexual
orientation which views diversity in terms other than a
good-bad or right-wrong dichotomy. The fact that you
don’t find homosexuality totally disgusting may make
this easier for you.

One thing you need to bear in mind is that given your
orientation you can choose not ever again to have a same
sex experience and not to be troubled by that option.
Were you one of the 6-9 percent who are homosexual,
such an outcome would not be possible. In that situation
your only options would be living as a gay man or being
celibate and denying your essential personhood.

There is one cautionary note. Are there other things
that have happened as a result of drinking that worry you
or that you would not have done were you sober? If the
answer is yes you may wnat to moderate somewhat your
relationship with beverage alcohol. This is not to say
stop drinking or partying, just an invitation for some
self -reﬂection in that department.

The issues of sexual behavior, sexual
orientation and confidence in one’s mas-
culinity/femininity are important all
through life but especially critical dur-
ing the college years. If you or any
other reader would want to discuss this
in person with me please feel free to
make an appointment through Mrs.
Calkins (ext. 8590).

The Ask Dr. Worth column can only
continue if questions are sent to me.
You can write methrough the U.S. mail
system, slip an envelope undermy wait-
ing room door, or give a letter to Mrs.
Calkins (who will treat it and you with
total confidentiality). Future columns
really depend on student responses.

Ask Dr. Worth
by Dr. James Worth

After a prolonged absence this column is returning
in response to a letter received near the end of last term,
too late for an article until now. The letter, which is
abbreviated, went as follows:

. Dr. Wonh:

During my sophomore year, I messed around
with a buddy of mine when we were drunk. When I
woke up the next moming I couldn’t explain it.

I have always considered myself to be
heterosexual...l have had sex about 30 or 40 times with
a total ofabout 8 women...I know l’m not gay because
I don’t really fantasize about guys but l’m not really
disgusted by it either. .

To what degree do you think guys try this sort
of thing out some time or other? Also, just because
someone messes around with someone of the same sex
a few times, does that mean they are bisexual?

A. [fl were youlwouldn’t

worry too much about your sexu-
ality. Approximately 20 percent
of all males have had at least one
encounter leading to orgasm with
another guy, yet we know that
only about 6-9 percent of the
male population is homosexual.
Clearly a lot of men, probably
for a wide variety of reasons,
have experimented brieﬂy with
gay sex.

The fact that your best and by
far your most frequent sexual
experiences have been with
women, that your fantasies are
associated with women, and that (apparently) your

 

 ‘.19.;-'  s

    

\

 

Valley‘ 

A Hardware, Paint and Related Items

'0;  

 

(703) 463-5983 Sun. 1_-5 p.m.

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.—6 p.m. A
463-2186

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 \

\

A

 

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

NACHO OR COOL RANCH 
  WORK AT DORITOS TORTILLA I
THE BEACH! 171
HUNTER FARMS
ORANGE

CHIPS ..................... ..9 oz.
JUICE .................... ..64 oz. 0 97

RED OR ORANGE
ASSORTEDIVARIET/ES 
TONYS 2/5

   

FRUIT JUICY. ................. -9 PK.

OUR MYRTLE BEACH
~ AND HILTON HEAD
:g'9"‘~., LOCATIONS ARE

if NOW HIRING FOR
 '4'’ THE SUMMER.

IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON

   
   
 

    
   

HAWAIIAN PUNCH
PIZZA ................ ..l5-l 7 oz

HEAD LOCATIONS OR MAIL
» . \

APPUCA-I-.9” -I-O: ;“ CREAMY OR EXTRA CRUNCHY

IIE PEANUT
BUTTER

IMI59

       
  
  

JERRY ALLEN '-" I
HARRIS TEETER, INC. ‘~-.
LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288
LITCHFIELD, S.C. 29585

HEIIISTBBIBI
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK!

ALBERTO vO5
SHAMPOO OR
CONDITIONER

04

I5 oz.

REGULAR OR LIGHT
BREYERS
ICE CREAM

HALF
GALS.

  
 

2

SELECTED
VARIETIES

 

Prices Effective Through A n’! 20, I993

Prices In This Ad Eiteclive Wednesday, April I4 Through Tues ay, April 2 , I993. In Lexin ton Stores
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To DeaIer< We Gladly Accept F eral I-ood Stamps.

‘-1’ -it -

 

  
 
  
    
    
     
       
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
    

D .
the Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1993

 

FEATURES

       
 

   

I
 &L honors native son Sam Houston cotonnadecrossword
s
ACROSS 
——:-j . . . m Wcnncsscc at me ‘ Zggnfg 3 W9
B JEANNE BRi(;(;g Sam Houston began his political career as e governor_o ‘ ' _ _ _
y PM i.~e.3ni,.e.S Bonn, early age of thtrty—six, and went on to be elected as. the first president of the 1g$f;'B9't‘:3ﬁ'Ia°"°“
Republic of Texas. Houston was an ardent Unionist who refused to swear 14 Ado,“
S allegiance to the Confederacy, and because of this he was deposed as govemor 15 poker holding
arnHouston,soldier, Of TCXEIS "1 1361-. “ . o  g3g,:'a"’:’ne
Siaiesinan, and fromicirsmmi’ Dr. Houston said, The greatest thing about Sam Houston was that he refused 18 Funny Johnson _
was born iighi how in to let”Texas secede. He thought the South would lose and slavery was past its  h,1eoei,|ed sinooihiy
Rockbridge County. The UmC- . _ 7’ _ “ 7 _
man besi known no iho ﬁrsi “He was a real interesting character, Houston said. He stood 6 2, and in the SE ggghhofiﬁgn '5,
presidentand ftrstU.S.Sena- 1700 5 hC W113 11 h€Ok Of 3 13” g‘_1)’_- _ ‘ 26 Bent over 
in, of Texas iiveii in inc Dr. Houston commented that it is unfortunate that students in school study ihe 27 Preprar'i1ngh"d as
Shenandoah vaiiey jug[ revolutionary war and then skip to the civil war, missing a very exciting period  831:5 0 
nonh of Lexingion for me of history. “From 1773-1860 the entire character oi the country changed, and 33 Tamanze
first ﬁfteen years of his lifc_ Sam Houston was partly responsible for that, he said. _ ' . 35 Pig _ mode .5,
Honsion is inc Snbjooi of Houston’s personal life was no less exciting than his professional life. He  fI;l:rr:1e"g‘;;>‘<:1mnery w.._,
a new biography by Marshall married three times, always to much younger women. His first wife mysteriously man _»,:,
Degnihi iiiieo Sword ofsan left him only eleven weeks after they were married, and Houston subsequently 40 pan of 3 shin "
Jacinto.‘/1 Life of Sam Hous— Fcslghcd lhc gOVCmOY5h1P Of TOT)‘ 2; E-d2"::"1°b'°5 u_._;
i0,i_ The book chronicles nessee and fled to the west to his 43 Sgy hum“ an
Houston’s life from his C_h°f0_k€C fflchdsg There he mar‘ 44 Male turkey @1993 _Tribune Media Services. Inc. 04/22/93 .._;._
hnmbie beginnings in Vii- ried his second wife, the niece of 45 Pleads A" "'9’“9 “°‘°"'°° Y S Puzzle solved: .,;;.;
gmia [0 his adventures on Ch1cfO91clcka' Al age fony-S-IX 47 it<>lanrc<ior‘r)tfeter 7 Pitcher handles 7\'i‘:"
the frontier in Tennessee and he mafflﬁd 8 W0mﬂh 1W°h_l)/"SIX 51 Helps 3 Quotas 3;,
the Arkansas Territory, his X0315 )’O_Uh89T» WhO SW9 hmh to 52 Love affairs 9 Formal account
I 2. . military Gamer under An_ eight children during their mar- 54 lrfeflagstcres :l1)Echv<av:s;‘pé<:réek of ._"nn
'  drew Jackson, and his tu- T1380 _ , 58 cnieinx a ship ,~,.,~_.
1‘ 0' - i . multuous 1301111081 life 3S Aumfhme °fH°u5‘9"_ §deam 59 Article in a 12 French river .~.:;.
 niesioeni of Texas_ he was ignored and villified by newspaper '1?FinISi’;16d I Zion
; The book was piibiisiied _ those whose independence he  'C33g;6e|'rt\:>ef;lr$IS 33 ﬂzeehnhg 0995 5:;
on Texas independence Day won, but he was soon acknowl— 63 Shakespearean quantity .
" and the zoom anniversary of edged kllvyihts fe110(\1~ Tchclanfs [ahnd 64 hanging W 3; Celrogltieyinprison no
uston’s birth. DeBruhl’s book isthesecond to bepublished this year. The first IO 3)’ 015 TCYOIC 35 9 3 er . . ._:‘J':
s Sam Houston: /1 Biography of the Father of Texas by John Hoyt Williams. Of Texas and 115 8Tf_3a1€5l h€rO-  ‘,{,,"§£§§‘;" 28 ‘,",,’§§2§,’§§s ;,~,.,-‘.
After leaving Rockbridge County upon the death of his father, Houston lived DR HOl151Oh PO1m€d .0111 lhal mistake 29 Elevator man _,,h_.;
a frontiersman among the Cherokee Indians for many years. He was the h1OT€ HOUSlOhS haVO graduaﬁed 57 Le-93' PBPGFS . 33 glglgg ghggmbat _.-_-~ ;«
pted son of Chief Ooleteka and a full citizen of the Cherokee nation, and his fYOm W&L than ah)! Other famh)’ DOWN 35 opera 50,0 no/22/93 ,_;i.e-iv
o rience with the Cherokee made him a passionate defender of Indian rights h3mC- He Séhd than the belh)’ Of 1 in addition 35 spoils or war ,;o.,
lateﬂife. Lee Chapel is named for a Hous— § Ear Ipagt . r  grain’ bregigds ,i,n,.;-
. As a soldier Houston fought in the War of 1812 under Andrew Jackson, and 1011 WhO W35 ah Chglheerlhg PTO‘ 4 Pgggf minis 40 Pfgrhiﬁenm 47 wan hanging 55 Raise” d._ ; V
blished the independence of Texas in 1836 in an astonishing victory over f€SS0F at W&L- _ sening 42 Eann saieiiiie 43 Not a soiii 55 Hoiiow Siam 1.13.»;-
I ta Anna and the Mexican Army at San J acinto. m lV1I(arshatl)1 l[DeSBrulI1{l vvsltloln  E .. . H‘ 5 Holds din high 23<S:\ovr;1£i;anded ﬁg Ggilggatgg stage 23 fﬂaasrtriglgnes r;.'f‘f
Dr. Charles Houston, a descendent of Sam Houston who resides in e SD93 lhg 3 Oh am Oh i 1 l'993f_ , , ,  
anoke area, said, “The battle of San Jacinto was the seventh most important 1-35 Chapel Oh T’~1€5df1)’rAP“127 DeBruh| 6 watermg place 46 Tmy — 53 char woman 5 We rr:.,._;.si
tie in history. It changed all of Texas, New Mexico, and California from a18P~Yh- The Speech 15 SPOh5OTed 4
anislhspeaking to English speaking. Houston managed to lose only seven men by COhl3C‘- =;r:_«,3
ile defeating thousands of Santa Anna’s men.” . '..«_.=;r
J
L ..............................  -------------  - :
  « Four Bedroom house for rent 2 “"“
Barn Apartment for Rent For Sale . 5
t . . I ‘—“—‘ for next school year 5 -«
For two people in a private facility. 1990 Mustang Convertable LX 5.0 5
. . . Call 463-5383 =
talls, individual turnout, use ofa ring, R/ihtrbg C‘_rreen,1>lfVg)1(1)t(§t0i31& Lleather, ......................  ....................................  it
' . _ . . . tions, , m1eS,a ways - - T:
Jumps and trails. Price negotiable. p Immediate Opening For Students to :
, . garaged AS heW- Post Flyers 3
- 3-UL - P-m- Y on Campus. a ana a
, 1-800-592-2121 ext. 131 _.
school teacher desiiiesto V " ’ ‘ . . . .  --~ -Ls
adopt a baby. Financially secure. -. ~
‘ Cari provide loving & fun family. A
Call collect 804-572-8403 or ,
write P. O. Box 655. South Boston.
VA 24592. '
GHQ RESTAURANT F
SPRING TERM - , - .
or Florida Spring Break
LUNCH & DINNER BUFFET ‘ 7nightsBeachfront$119—149
Deadline soon. i

 

 We [C Ome g ac K!
and

have a QRT/‘ZIT
pring Term

 

” OUR NEW MENU SELECTIONS!

Medicine can affect your balance, co-

LUNCH: I1 :30 A./W. - 2 :00 RM. ordination, and vision as much as
alcohol. After drinkingor taking med-
- ' ' . d ‘ ‘rt .rti '
DINNER: 5:30 PM. - 7.-oo RM. ii’.i‘fi§’J;r .:i:1;t.:....;i:..
. MUTUHCYGLE SAFETY FUUNDITIUN to

 
 
  
     
  

,“ g.'h_\ \‘g1."’  ‘ ' ' ' 7 ‘-
z. '

‘t

   
  
     
      
   
  

_ seiécriori’ iitiee will beatt ,

_ A-comrnuiiiity ‘tserviiceb activities tli

 
  

‘U\‘ 'IUl,_Q.‘§'5 oD"__..n'

  
 

I -inldividufals orhgroupis who "have ._ cc ,c_
’ overfa pe_rio‘djof time;   r ‘

4_? 
4-.

|l,.I,O.\l.0a' .0 ”“' ' Vv'v‘9 313$“?

'J-“.~“ a-«§e.e- -- 4 . A .. -A~>~ .F».V»t‘
-...-‘......-.~.-...-.. ..r. .. .. ,...~.................. ..-.--...,-........»..-.-

——The 5/‘Z193

  

the-an innovative or-clreative project I
invdivievduals or; groups who re hown theabilit

othérstop rf  comrniinity.s vi

      
   
 
  

.. Vese areillu _  of the efforts we is
basic criterion is evi nceof an unseilfishiis 1:-of-. V
If _y0L_li‘WOl.lid like to_noniinateV:osoiiteone r .o'i'ne ~-
Dean ’RLft'SCiO, ODK FacLilty.S'ecr'etary,‘inthe C In _e_

Roberson ‘93, Chair of the Selection Conimittee. before‘ Fri ,
..vijrill, be announced at the: Spring ODK ind:uett.on. ere ony, S
Ehapd : ‘_ . . i _ V .v

  
  

  

   
 

.- Va 4“-K.» -
‘:53-
-.-- -. \‘§\ ---\-.....-.-..-.—.-.-q...—.-.,._»..-....-.~..-..-............ .. ..... .. .... . .. . . -

  

LAST WEEK:
Baseball —— W&L 2, Hampden—Sydney 14

WTennis —— W&L 9, Sweet Briar 0

MTennis — W&L 2, MIT 7

Golf— Jimmy Kull won Shipbuilders Invitational
MLax — W&L 17, Harnpden Sydney 6

PAGE 6

Washington & Lee’s women’s
tennis team completed the regular
season on Tuesday with a 9-0 win at
Sweet Briar College. The Generals
play for their third consecutive con-
ference title this weekend at Sweet
Briar. The women finished with a
14-4 overall record and were a per-
fect 8-0 in the ODAC.

The Generals only less in their
last nine matches came against Di-
vision II power Armstrong State.
Sophomore Marilyn Baker is 14-3
on the season. Of her losses, two
came versus players ranked among
Division III’s top seven and the
other was against Armstrong State.

The men's lacrosse team is still
on pace for an ODAC season—end-
ing showdown with Roanoke Col-
lege. The Generals kept their con-
ference mark perfect on Tuesday
witha 17-6 win atHarnpden-Sydney
College. Senior Wiemi Douguih
scored a career high seven goals,
one short of the school record.

Douguih had five goals in the
first quarter the l lth-ranked Gener-
als went out to a 7-0 lead. Douguih
has a team—leading 29 goals for the
season. Scott Mackley netted three
for W&L, who are now 8-2 overall,
4-0 in the ODAC.

During the Spring Break, the
Generals romped Virginia Wesleyan
(29-1) and Haverford (16-5) before

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

falling in a heart-breaker to 5th-
ranked Washington College, 12-
10. W&L had led 7-5 at halftime,
but WC broke a 10-10 tie with 6:()7
to play for the win. Senior David
Lefkowitz scored four goals for the
Generals, three in the second hall’.

Washington & bee will host
Guilford on Saturday at 2 p.m. on
Wilson Field. A victory will likely
mean that W&L and Roanoke will
both be undefeated in conference
play when they meet at Wilson Field
on Saturday, May 6, to decide the
ODAC championship.

The women ’s lacrosse team also
had a big win on Tuesday, beating
Hollins College, 21-4.

Senior Lisa Dowling could have
done the job by herself. She scored
11 (Yes, E—L-E-V-E-N!) goals to
shatter her own school record, pre-
viously eight. Dowling has 65 goals
on the season. That’s 20 more than
the school record she had set last
year.
The women are 10-2, 6-0 in
conference action, and are ranked
14th in Division III. The Generals
fell back in the rankings from sev-
enth after consecutive defeats in
New York last week. W&L lost 12-
10 to Hartwick and 17-8 at William
Smith.The fomrer endeda 12—game
win streak for W&L which dated
back to last year.

For Rent:

4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home,

1 B.R. duplexapt. Call Mike
Flint at Whiteside Realty 463-1187

_._.j.____——.

Dear Abby,
I had

i In Lexington, available June 15 I
I
I

two brothers.
Hampden-Sydney College and the other went to the
electric chair. Now I have met a nice girl and we plan
to be married. My problem is should I tell her about my

 

One of them went to

brother who went to Hampden-Sydney?

We all have our problems, but CRAFTSPLUS
can solve yours when it comes to crafts and

hobbies.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main Street, Lexington 463-3355

    

Help Wanted

Position Title: Annual Fund Staff Associate
Department: Office of University Development
Reports To: Director of the Annual Fund

Job Duties/Qualifications: This position assists
in the development and management of strategies
to increase involvement in the financial support of
Washington and Lee through the Annual Fund, a
2.3 million plus effort providing direct support to
the Univerity’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a secondyear,
with preference given to recent W&L graduates.
This entry-level position requires excellent
written and verbal skills, an ability to work within
an organized schedule of specific deadlines, and a
willingness to travel and work some evenings. A
working familiarity with data retrieval and
computers is a plus. A Bachelor’s degree is also
required.

Direct resumes, along with a letter of interest

  
     
       

S

C1112 King-tum iﬁlri

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

M&WTrack —— ODAC championships
at Bridgewater .

Golf— ODAC Championship in
Richmond

APRIL 22, 1993

Baseball team hits rocky road

Generals are outscored 73-24 in last seven games

By Kl-Il‘l'll GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Now that Mother Nature is through
having fun with the Washington and
Lee athletic schedules, itis theplayer’s
turn to wreak havoc on what were the
Fields of Streams.

The baseball team got back to work
immediately after winter term exams,
playing eight games in ten days. Tues-
day, the team dropped their seventh in
a row, 14-2 at Hampden-Sydney.

Starting pitcher Bates Brown had
the Generals in the game through the
firstfive innings, trailingjust4—0. How-
ever, the Tigers sank their teeth into
W&L’s hurlers and put six runs on the
board in the sixth to seal the game in a
hurry.

Freshmen Matt Ermigiotti relieved
Brown and classmate Greg Pope threw
the final two innings.

The crushing blow was a grand,

slain by Hampden-Sydney’s Mark
Hazelwood. Taylor Rhodes went 4-
for-5 for the Tigers.

Senior captain Jon Hesse had three
hits in five at bats for the Generals,
lifting his season batting average to a
career high .333.

Sophomore Geren Steiner had two
hits for W&L. Steiner and Hesse are

amongthe five W&L regulars batting
above .300.

With the defeat, Washington and

Lee drops their record to 4-10, 3-8 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence.
_ After a double-header split with St.
Mary’s College last week, W&L was
4-4 overall, 3-2 in the ODAC. Fresh-
man Graig Fantuzzi earned his team-
high third win in the opener, an extra-
inning 12-11 victory.

However, the Generals dropped the
second game 12-1 to begin the present
losing streak.

W&L has been outscored 73-24 in
the last seven games. The toughest
defeat was an 8-7 loss at Bridgewater
in 11 innings, the Generals’ longest
game this season.

The team’s offensive and pitching
numbers are much better than last
year’s, when they went 4-21, 1-15 in
the ODAC.

The previous two games have been
very sobering, though. They have been
outscored 23-2. The last time their
opponnents were held to fewer than
seven runs was the fifth game of the
season.

The Generals host that team,
Lynchburg College, Thursday at Smith
Field. They then face a pivotal test this
weekend, playing back-to—back double-

Swim Lessons - $20 3 393510"

ff ed ' 8 I Is of classes from beginner to lifeguard at the
$5/%§1r.aIr3]iii:r)er€sIty  Rggistration April 24 at 10 a.m. on pool balcony.
First session April 26-30. Second session lyzlay  to go to
charity. For further information call Paige emi ar .

   
  

130 S. Main St.

   

ndale -. - Di1k i
Jansport daypacks and book bags A
Lexington Bike Shop

Mon.-Flri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

  
 
    

463-7969

 

the W&L campus. $150
month for the unit.
— Great Location

Apartment for Rent

Catering to W&L Students — Two—bedroom apartment for
rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk from
per month, per bedroom. $300 per

—— Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
— Landlord Pays for Water, Including Hot Water

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown,
at 463-3013.

 ‘arterie-

Resumes v Cover Letters
Come see us -- we’ll

Three months till summer; do you have ajob?

- Flyers - Copies - Binding

make you look good!

PHONE: 463 - 1712

125 W.. NELSON STREET - LEXINGI‘ ON - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

- FAX: 463-6918 IQI

"F

Fitzhugh Lee
M. Miley

iiiiiimniis

W&L E Art
1870 Washington College Diploma
signed “ '

Signatures:

Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored ‘
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

ﬂ

R.E. Lee"

R.E. Lee, Jr.
John Letcher

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

headers. The double header will begin

on Saturday with W&L hosting Raiidolph-Macon College to make up
the two games they were scheduled to
play when the Blizzard of ’93 hit.

Guilford College for a pair of confer-
encc games

‘ File Photo
A W&L pitcher prepares IO let IOOSG a pItCI'I IO the plate. W&L’s
pitching has been revived this year, With a marked improvement

from last year's numbers.

 

Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday
Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
All-U—Can Eat $4.99
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2
p.m. All-U-Can Eat $4.99

Wednesday Night BBQ Night -choice of
potato & vegatable

1/2Rack -$5.99 WholeRack- $10.95
Saturday Night Prime Rib
Queen Cut $11.95 King Cut $13.95
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served
24 hrs. a day.

4 miles North on Route 11
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice and

S h e 1 1
 81  Furniture Dealers 3
For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742 '

TGIF

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
Sportswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% Discount.
Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive . g
merchandise from America ’s‘ most famous mail '
order houses. New shipments Every Week!

In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.’ A

There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and
Women’s clothing.

Famous knit tops for women - re ly $18 -
Now $3 .00. Selected Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - '
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99
Lexington _:
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.)

to Robert W. Fox, Director of Personnel I‘ 1O(§".:,r_1,,1Y_I‘3r_‘5d,§3(') ',;§;‘,?“’°‘aY Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30
Services. k J - I ’ ' ‘ J 703-463-9730
t-- _ mm _ -..'.,.,.‘;;_. __".';;':;...... '
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVICESg.BOX 1792ll.PLANTATION.FL 33313 ' audiotronics
_ p L f ‘ 0 '| ’ ’ ‘I AUDIO - VIDEO - CAR srmso
'o\.ES$a\E“cE 2:;.r°.‘:.:::.:::.°.*:::’.:.:.ic:..":.°::.:.°°.:s::::£.::.*: . YES! xwmzwsao/msrsnmnvec-d«t -  
5“ PE credit cards.."ln ur name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN 3 Cards. Enclosed find $f5 which is 100% refundable lino I ADCQM . Agpirqg
yo
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEPOREIL . approved ,mmed,a,e,y_ . | _ TOSHW, MARAN-,2
VISN9 and Mastcrcardo the credit cards you I A 3 SCEJZTON S2/F?Nn.|VE _
dcscnie and need l'or— lD—BO0KS--DEPARTg1§rNT | NAME I » KUPSCH BAZOOKA
S'l‘0RES-—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNM -— I
EMERGENCY cmsH—TicKEis—REsTAuRAms— : ADDRESS , I f,§‘,§,g’,§E,,'§,§,’*,’;‘3,§-,‘,‘,’;,*’,’.‘,’j,°,,'*“"
L _ HO,TELS—MOTELS-GAS-CAR RENI'ALS—- ' _, " ZIP ' 2 CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
.- C _ REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD voun CREDIT RATING! : CITY STATE —- ————— l , msgggggwggwgs
. I. . ' ' , - ‘ I 0V
V V   '  K  ' MASTERCARDIVISA/DSC ER
SERV'\CES, II ' 60*" C.» No credit I SIGNATURE I ' (300) 4596567: I
I L  §\‘ ° ' | I I ' Corner ofOgden8iStarkey Road; I
~ ml“ 9|‘ No security denosit. NO!EMnslcrCIIdIsIrc¢BtcIeduIdennrIidMasteI(hrdln&md|otIllnc. mo in an 6w 3
. ' , ':._5,,;nI';‘::-4 0°‘ I Visa nu registered uIdcuIrkol‘VlSAl1SA. in¢~.-nivrsnimm-uomt _ I ‘;‘;5°' °';de9nTR°:',_ 3.?" 219"
_ g ' Approval absolutely guaranteed S0 ' Sci-vlazs Auncldlon. 100% °uAR‘N-teal” I __
._d,_.,,rcq . L___________,_______________,g

  

Sunday, the Generals will travel to

 

 

‘THE UtllVlT;i’r£3~l:”Y LIBRARY
WASlli-l\lt’sTt’7ivi   t.tt~tlv‘<':3%t‘t"r"

  

   
 

U112 iling-tum lﬂlti

 

VOLUME 92, NO. 24‘

VRBsmw
with vote  
counﬂng

By Thomas Hespos
Phi News Editor

It has been five weeks since
Washington & Lee undergradu-
ates voted on a proposed set of
revisions to the Student Body
Constitution, but the ballots have
yet to be counted.

.¢W&L’s Voting Regulations
Board, the organization respon-
sible for counting the votes on
the Constitutional Referendum,
was originally expected to de-
liver a vote total at the Monday,
April 19 meeting of the Execu-
tiﬂe Committee.

At Monday’s EC meeting, EC
President Josh MacFarland de-
scribed the VRB as “being slow
and Spring Term-like” in per-
forming their duties. .

VRB President John Refo at-
trﬁmtes the VRB ’s slow pace to a
delay in delivery of ballots from
the law schoolballot boxes. Refo
said rather than counting the un-
dergraduate and law school votes
separately, the VRB “wanted to
count all of them at the same
t1 6."

The undergraduates voted on
the constitutionl referendum
March 22. Student Bar Associa-
tion President Amy Balfour said
she turned in the votes to the EC
office on time.Balfour said she
t ed the votes in on the Sunday
0 Monday after the undergradu-
ate spring break.

MacFarland said the VRB is
not required to turn in their vote
count by a specific day. He said
the deadline was “sort of nebu-
lo s.”

“I am 99 percent sure they
will be here next week,” said
MacFarland at Monday’s EC
meeting.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A Sight Few Have Seen

   

Photo By Fran Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi

Many W&L students complain about never seeing the horses at Foxfield. But
the few lucky students that did were treated to an afternoon of good racing in

addition to taking in the warm weather and enjoying the tailgating parties.

Gates, Strossen to debate

By MIC]-IAEL HEWLETI
Phi Staff Writer

Exactly one year after the Los Angeles riots,
former Los An geles Chief of Police Darrryl Gates
and National President of the American Civil
Liberties Union Nadine Strossen will debate at
Washington and Lee Thursday.

The American Civil Liberties Union, Black
Law Student Association, and the Federalist are
sponsoring the debate which will be held at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel.

Gates and Strossen were chosen to debate at
W&L because of their distinct views.

“Each brings starkly different perspectives to
the issues of law and order, the causes that led to
the Los Angeles riots, and the way the Los Angeles
riots were handled,” said Andrew Schneider, presi-
dent of W&L’s ACLU chapter.

Schneider had a particular reason in mind when
he chose Gates for the debate.

“The purpose of bringing Darryl Gates was to

attract a large portion of the school that is ultra-
conservative to be exposed to the viewpoint of the
ACLU,” said Schneider.

Freshman Caroline Connolly agrees.

“I think that having the ACLU president here
will give students a different perspective that they
might not normally be accustomed to,” said
Connolly, “but personally I haven‘t seen Darryl
Gates, tell the truth, yet so I don’t see why he would
change his story now.”

President of the Black Law Student Association
Laura Anderson said the debate is important.

‘‘I think it’s important ifa group has the oppor-
tunity to bring all kinds of speakers regardless of
their political affiliation or stances on various
issues for the discourse,” said Anderson.

Schneider still hopes that the debate will raise
consciousness on the campus.

“To see a debate like this with a high profile
figure in last year’s riots will hopefully make
people care about the problems of racism and the
problems of police brutality in our nation ’s cities,”
he said.

‘Assaults scare UVa.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

April 29, 1993

IFC fine tunes
Fall rush rules

By ANDRFA COBRIN
AND MELISSA CURTIS
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Washington and Lee’s
Interfraternity Council voted
unanimously Wednesday to
adopt a new rush plan for fall
1993.

The plan includes: pushing
the start of rush back a week,
extending casual contact to in-
clude Freshmen Orientation
‘week, 16 mandatory open houses
and a nish advisor system.

IFC president Curt Smith said
the new plan will be easier on the
freshmen going through rush.

“The main things were that
we wanted to make it easier on
freshmen when they first come
in,” Smith said. “[The new plan]
will give them more time to get
used to the school before they
jump into rush.”

IFC must vote two times to
change their constitution. Smith
said they voted on the proposal in
pieces last semester before vot-
ing on the entire plan Wednes-
day.

Smith said that the new plan
removes some of the ambiguity
from rush violations. He said
most of the problems last year
were associated with the period
before rush actually began. By
extending casual contact on the
hill and around town, there will
be fewer opportunities for that to
happen.

“It’s hard to ask upperclass-
men, regardless of whether
they’re in a fraternity, to not talk
to freshmen in a social setting
when the freshmen are trying to

become acclamated to the
school,” said Smith.

Fines for rush violations will
be $1500 for the first violation,
$2000 and two weeks of social
probation for the second viola-
tion and $2500 and a semester of
social probation for the third vio-
lation.

The new plan also requires
freshmen to go to open house at
all 16 fraternities.

“This way we’ll make sure
every fraternity gets a fair look,”
Smith said.

The IFC will
help enforce this
policy with the help
of rush advisors.
Each hall of fresh-
men men will be as-
signed to a rush ad-
visor who will es-
cort them to the
open houses and
meet with them
once a week. The
advisers will not be allowed to
discuss theirhouse with the fresh-
men, but they will be allowed to
attend rush parties. In order to
keep the fraternities accountable,
freshmen will be required to sign
in at parties and check out when
they leave.

Part of the original rush pro-
posal that was abandoned last
semester was the idea of a cap on
the size of the pledge classes.
Smith said he thinks thenew rush
plan will help alleviate the prob-
lem of uneven numbers in pledge
classes. Smith said a main cause
of the problem was that both
freshmen and upperelassmen felt
rushed into making a decision.

Leroy C. “Buddy ”Atkins,

Movie causes campus

 

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs, said he thinks the
fraternities need to decide what
is a proper pledge class size and
work toward more “interfratemal
spirit so everybody survives and
does well.”

“There is a big fear among the
students that we'll have a homo-
geneous fraternity system,”
Atkins said. “When there ends
up being chapters with 80 guys
or more, that’s when you lose the
diversity.”

A n o t h e r
change for the fra-
ternities next year
will start when
rush is over. All
freshmen may
only participate in
“chapter activi-
ties” and not
“pledge activites”
for the Fall term.

F r e s h m a n

‘ pledges may at-
tend a chapter meeting, not a
pledge meeting; they may help
with house cleanp-ups on Satur-
day and Sunday mornings as long
as there is an equal number of
upperelassmen participating; and
they may only sober drive once a
month.

Dean of Students David
Howison said that if the new rush
plan does not run as expected
next fall, faculty members will
present a winter rush proposal to
the Student Affairs Committee.

Atkins thinks the new rush
plan is a start in the right direc-
tion.

“If the fratemitfes abide by
their own rules I think it will
work out well,” he said.

chaos

Police caution a

' BY DAVID WALL
of The UVa. Cavalier Daily News

The man who may have raped two Uni-
versity of Virginia students last weekend
may have committed another sexual assault
Monday night, University Police officials

‘said.

The attacker described by the victim of
the third assault, which occurred on
Whitehead‘ Road outside the Chemistry
Building, is similarto those described by the
victims of the two weekend rapes. Police are
“not ruling out” a connection among the

‘three crimes, University Police Investigator
Cassandra Carter said.

The similaritiesramong the three crimes
are “puzzling,” Carter said. “The descrip-
tions [of the attackers] are similar.”

Despite the similarities, the
Charlottesville and University Police De-
partments have no suspects, University
Police Lt. Steve Shifﬂette said. According
to Charlottesville PoIiceDet.Randy Higgins,
the suspect may no longer be in
Charlottesville.

“We’re not exactly sure where he is,”
Higgins said. “We‘re still looking but it may
not be a local person.”

A university student was tackled from
behind in the assault Monday night and
fondled, according to a University ‘Police
report. The attacker ﬂed when two other
people approached, the report said. The stu-
dent was not injured, the report states.

“Becauseaknife was notinvolved [Mon-

' day night], it might indicate that the same
people were not involved” in the three crimes,

rea campuses

Carter said.
Both the weekend rapes involved the

victims being taken to secluded areas at.

knifepoint.
The Charlottesville and University Po-
,lice Departments are conducting a joint
investigation of the weekend rapes,
Shifflette said.

The men who committed the rapes dur-
ing the weekend were both described by the
victims as heavy—set black men, about 5-
foot-9, with beards and square glasses, a
Charlottesville Police spokesman said.

The victim of the Monday night assault
described her attacker as a black man in his
early 205, over six feet tall and without
facial hair, Shifflette said.

The assault occurred just before l():30
p.m., when the victim was walking alone
and heard someone running toward her from
behind, according to the report.

. She ran to escape her assailant, but was
caught from behind and thrown to the
ground, the report stated. “I do not know
what he intended to do, and neither does’-3
the victim, Carter said.

Higgins urged all women at local cam-
puses to be more “aware of where they are
going at night, especially alone.” A com-
posite of the attacker(s) will be available
Friday afternoon.

Higgins requested that students who were
in Charlottesville the weekend of April 23
and have any information about the attacks
call him at 804-971-3293.

David Wall is an associate editor for the Cavalier
Daily News at the University of Virginia, at
Charlottesville.

EC cancels White Book retreat

BY TIIoMAs HESPOS

By MICIIEAL HEv{t;E'rr
Phi Staff Writer

Familiar faces at Washington and Lee will
be coming to the big screen soon.

Beginning Monday, May 3 and running
through Wednesday, May 5, scenes for the film,
The Foreign Student, will be shot on the W&L
campus.

The film is based Oil the serni-autobiographi-
cal book by Phillipe Labro. Labro was a foreign
exchange student from France who attended
W&L during the 1950s. Marco Hoffschneider
will play Phillipe in the movie.

A casting call for extras was held March 10

p in the Arlington Women’s Center in the Univer-

sity Center. Several W&L students were called
back to Richmond to try out for speaking roles
in the film.

Sophomore Brian McClung, with his bright
red hair, secured a speaking role in the movie.
McClung said that 12 students tried out for his
role and he and four other students were called
back to Richmond.

McClungpoItrays amember of adisclipinary
committee who is hearing a case on Labro. In
the movie, Labro violates the speaking tradition
by not smiling when he says hello.

McClung said that nothing distinguished
him from the other students who tried out for the
part.

“It’s a total fluke,” said McClung. “It was
just 1uck.”

Juniors Holley Proctor and Jennifer Ray
were cast as southern belles. Proctor said she
and Ray will sit in the dorm halls and fawn over
Phillipe and two of his friends. Proctor said the
three men are considered “gods” at the school
and that every girl desires to be seen with them.

Seniors Matt Jennings and Tom Hooper also
landed speaking roles in the film.

Jennings plays a senior at the school who
tells Phillipe that the Advisory Committee needs

to speak with him, while Hooper plays a varsity ,

letterman who rides his bicycle past Phillipe
and calls him “Frenchy.”

Senior Doug Lamb does not have a speaking
role in the movie, but does have a large role. He
is Hoffschneider’s body double in the film.
Lamb stands in for Hoffschneider while scenes
are being set up and will also appear in some of
the football scenes in the movie.

Freshman Richard Weaver is one of the
many extras who were cast in the ﬁlm.

“I never throught I would have the chance to
be in a movie in such a small place as Lexing-
ton,” he said

FRoM STAFF REPORTS

When Hollywood invades Washington and
Lee next week to film The Foreign Student, it
will bring a little commotion to the campus.

Cathargo Films, who is producing the movie,
will require extra parking, the removal of bi-
cycles from the Graham—Lees quad and the
silencing of the Lee Chapel bells for the film-
mg.
Sophomore Chris Albert, who is working
for the Locations Departmentof Cathargo said
Washington Street from Lee Avenue to Nelson
Street will be closed to all through traffic.
Additionally, all parking on Washington Street
will be reserved for the film crew. ‘

Albert said several other areas on campus
will be blocked off during the filming, includ-
ing the upper corral and certain spots by the
gym and the Commerce School.

Students will be able to park in the lower
corral lot, or in the upper and lower parking lots
behind the gym.

The bicycle racks in the Graham—Lees quad
will be removed so the film will be historically
accurate. The bikes currently in the racks must
be moved to another location by Friday mom-
in g. Albert said no bicycles should be tethered
to the railings in the quad on the days of the
filming. Bikes can be moved back Thursady
May 6.

Cathargo may also have to enter a few
student rooms to close windows or shades.
Any crew members that enter a student room
will be accompanied by a Washington & Lee
security guard. Students will be asked to re-
frain from making any noise during the actual
filming.

If it rains the schedule will probably change,
Albert said.

XQ
KAE-)
KKI‘

Indep. W.

Winter Term Report Card

Pm STAFF WRITER

.. At its April 19 regular meeting, the
Executive Committee voted to cancel
its retreat to discuss White Book is-
sues.

“It’s simply not feasible this year,”
said EC President Josh MacFarland.

The EC voted in late January to
d‘ cuss controversial Honor System
issues in a closed executive session at
Skylark, a university-owned confer-
ence center. _

The Student Body Constitution
states that the EC “shall not go into
executive session except in the case of
p ssible honor violations.”

“The purpose of the Skylark thing

was so that we could take a look at the
issues... and pass something on to [next
year’s EC,]” said MacFarland.

The Skylark retreat was originally
scheduled for March 13, but was can-
celled because of the blizzard that be-
gan March 12.

MacFarland brought up the Skylark
retreat at the April 19 meeting of the
EC and found that its members could
not find a suitable time for the retreat
that all EC reps could attend.

Instead, said MacFarland, the bur-
den of reviewing the Honor System
will fall on next year’s committee.

The EC passed a process for amend-
ing the White Book in late February,
which calls for a complete review of
the Honor System every three years,

beginning next academic year.

EC Advocate Dan Munroe, a third-
year law student, said he has faith that
next year’s EC will review the honor
system completely.

“I hope they do follow through with
it,” he said. “I think that they will. Bob
Thompkins is really competent.”

Munroe said he feels there are sev-
eral issues raised by the Honor System
that need attention. He said an honor
trial differs from a court trial because
advocates are not allowed to talk to the
EC’s witnesses.

Munroe said he feelsitis“extremely
unfair” that students who appeal art EC
decision are penalized if found guilty a
second time.

“That should be done away with,”

he said.

According to the EC ’s current pro-
cedure for amending the White Book,
a review committee will be appointed
by the EC every three years. The
committee will be composed of eight
members and one chairman. No mem-
ber of the review committee may be a
member ofthe EC. The committee will
report to the EC periodically on the
W&L comnIuIIity’s opinions of the
Honor System and will submitpropos-
als for changes to the White Book by
March I.

MacFarland said next year’s review
will be conducted in open meetings,
and not in executive session.

“Everything will be all open,” he
said.

All Women
AXA

KA

II B4)

II KA

All Students
ZAE

X‘l’

K):

(DAB
Indep. M.
Z<DE
IlKd>

All Men
XX

t1>K‘l’
(‘D102
(D173

ZN

Bell

2 2.2 2.4 2.6 2.8 3

 

13
3.178
3.148
3.137
3.136
3.052
3.028

2.741
2.718
2.635 '
2.634

3.2 3.4

 

PAGE 2

    

Ellie iﬂing-tum iﬁlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Thefts continue...

Last week we ran a story about thefts in the Law School
Library. Executive Committee reps. Jay Sterne and Kevin Webb
have told the Phi that the thefts are getting worse. Students have had
wallets and other valuable items stolen. Apparently, many thefts
have occurred in the middle of the day, a time when most law
students would notice a stranger.

Security believes the thefts at night are being committed
by a townsperson. But now these thefts are being committedin
broad daylight. It's hard to ignore the fact that the thief may quite
possibly be a W&L student.

The ﬁrst thought that comes to your mind might be, “it’s
not possible, we have a strong tradition of honor here."The sad, but
very true fact is that most of the world does not live under a system
of honor, nor do they have a clue of what the word honor means.

But will they play
by the rules?

The IFC and SAC recently reached an agreement for next
fall’s fraternity rush. The proposal essentially gives freshman
males more time to make up their minds and greater opportunities
to see the different houses. The proposal also deﬁnes exactly what
the IFC and SAC mean by delayed pledgeship.

On paper it seems like a good proposal. Freshman still get
rush out of their way early, and they will also have time to get
settled before becoming pledges. Fraternities have repeatedly
ignored the IFC rules when it comes to rush. The big question is will
they start following the rules now? Good luck IFC, we hope you
don’t need it and everyone cooperates. -

If you must drink...

Another Foxﬁeld has come and gone. Now, we don’t want
to preach, but did you notice the high number of car accidents, or
people pulled over for Driving Under the Influence? We did.
Drinking-Wind  stupid, plainiarrdsirnple.-t lt‘srtrue»there

were students and adults from places o'ﬂ"ieifthan‘W&£ 'd’rinkii'ig'aiid‘-f
driving. ‘But one person drinking and driving is one too many, no ‘

matter where they are from.

Blake Comer, a former W&L student is sitting in
Rockbridge County Jail, at this very moment, for killing Mary
Ashley Scarborough in a hit and run that was the result of driving
under the inﬂuence. Scarborough was just a freshman here when
she died in March of 1989. No one here ever wants to deal with that
kind of tragedy again. So, please before you drink a drop of alcohol
think about how you’re getting home.

We hope that you will keep one more thing in mind when
you’re drinking this term. Everyone with two eyes and a brain can
see that as a campus we begin drinking more spring term. We're not
about to tell you not to drink alcohol. If you want to drink, that’s
what you’re going to do. But, be careful with how much you are
drinking. Spring term is a time every W&L student looks forward
to, but it’s also an easy time to get caught up in drinking. A lot of
us go out and party every single chance we get spring term, which
can be four or ﬁve times a week. If you ’ re getting drunk fouror ﬁve
times a week you’re eventually going to find yourself in a bad spot.
So please, be careful when you’re partying with alcohol.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1993

0
, , ﬁl Kﬁw-y. YF-F-5lDF(’‘l' 
:’ ,;~ \ WL$0:«l, l_r'$ A .
I. (W rt - *
 /5, i; FRIENDLY boo;
‘" ’:%S’
O
9

Political correc

WASHINGTON — An institution, we are told, is
the lengthening shadow of a man. If so, official
mischief at the University of Pennsylvania is of more
than merely parochial interest because Penn’s presi-
dent, Sheldon Hackney, is President Clinton’s nomi-
nee to head the National Endowment for the Humani-
ties. So consider the cases of Gregory Pavlik and
Eden J acobowitz.

Pavlik is one of many col-
umnists for the student news-
paper, The Daily Pennsylva-

 .4‘-:"'

of the First Amendment was: “Taking newspapers is
wrong.” But also: “I recognize that the concerns of
members of Penn’s minority community that gave
rise to last week’s protests are serious and legiti-
mate.” What “concerns” are “legitimate?” Concerns

that right-wing opinion is being published?
The university will investigate whether - yes,
whether — the trashing of the paper violated freedom
i of expression. The sever-
ity of this investigation can
be gauged by an official’s

nian.Robustlyright-wing, he
iscomprehensivelyoffensive
to the politically correct. He
denouces Martin Luther
King, racial preferences, and
much else. He is often ex-
treme and heavy-handed,
which is to say he is squarely
in the tradition of undergradu-
ate journalism.

And he is the reason why, two weeks ago, some
black students met delivery trucks early in the mom-
ing, serized almost 14,000 copies of the paper, and
dumped them in trash bins. The trashers offered this
defense: “Not only are the papers free, but there
exists no explicit restriction on the number of papers
that any given student may remove.” President
Hackney’s mincing description of this assault on
press freedom: papers “were removed from their
regular distribution points.”

Hackney’s first statement was of regret that “two
important university values, diversity and open ex-
pression, seem to be in conﬂict.” A remarkable
statement. It is clearly craven, yet has no clear mean-
ing. (Does the “diversity” value mean that some
groups but not all groups that are part of the
university’s diversity have a right not to be an-
noyed?)

A few days laterHackney’s even limper defense

 

(}EORGEVVHJ.

Washington Post
Writers Group

statement that the univer-
sity will take into account
the fact that those who sup-
pressed the newspaper
“did not see their protest
in the context of its being
an infringement of free
speech.”

Hackney's credentials
as a defender of free speech are academically ortho-
dox. He defends federal subsidies for Robert
Mapplethorpe’s homoerotic exhibits and says disap-
proving things about Sen. Jesse Helms, thoughts not
perilous on campus. He is a First Amendment funda-
mentalist, but with a selectivity that suggests politi-
cal calculation.

The latest victim of Hac}<ney’s doctrine of balanc-
ing “diversity” (or “sensitivity”) against free expres-
sion is Eden Jacobowitz. Late one evening he and
others in his dorm were bothered by a noisy gathering
of black students outside. He and others shouted at
the noisy students. Some persons shouted racial
epithets. Jacobowitz shouted “Will you water buffa-
los get out of here?” and “If you want to party, there’s
a zoo near here.”

When campus police arrived, others who had
shouted denied doing so. J acobowitz said he had, and

that he knew the race of the people he was shoutirtg”
at, but he adamantly denied shouting any racial slurs. .

 

ess claims victims.

In subsequent proceedings against Jacobowitz,
one of the university administration’s thought and
speech enforcers demanded to know if Jacobowitz
had been having “racist thoughts” that night, and
insisted that the phrase “water buffalo” was racist.
However, various scholars, black and white, have
defended Jacobowitz. He was for twelve yeaﬁe a
Yeshiva student and on the fateful night he used the
English translation of the Hebrew word “beharneh.”
It means water oxen, and in slang means a thought-
less, foolish person.

The Hackney administration tried to get
Jacobowitz to plea bargain. It would stop persecut-
ing him if he would accept the punishment prefeied
by totalitarian regimes and American campus liber-
als; re-education, in the form of “sensitivity” train-
ing. He refused.

Last Friday the university’s trial of him was
postponed, ostensibly because of a procedural tech-
nicality, but perhaps because of scomful press atten-
tion. The university may hope to resume its pers¢u-
tion later, when no one is watching, hoping that
meanwhile the example of Jacobowitz, anxious in

limbo, will exert a chilling effect on speech, to the H

gratification of the politically correct.

Hackney's university is mild, “understanding,”
almost condoning when a politically incorrect col-
umnist is a black group’s excuse for brownshirt
tactics against a newspaper. But the university is
ludicrously aroused by a Jacobowitz’s supposed
violation of  what’? Some rowdy people’s right not
to be annoyed while they are armoying others?

Hackney's institution has a propensity for behav-
ior both cowardly and bullying, trimming principles
to pander to political fashion. As he heads for Wa h-
ington to superintend the disbursementof millions of
dollars to scholars, the Chronicle of Higher Educa-
tion reports: “Scholars praise Hackney as even-
handed, moderate.”

© V1993, Washington Post Writers Group

Museum lets us not forget the -past '

Cllriz ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . Jearme Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whitney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, roonr
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

WASHINGTON — Sgt. qﬁeorge
Matthews, my uncle, was with the U.S.
Army when our tanks swept across
Germany in 1945 routing the Nazis,
liberating the concentration camps
along the way.

But like so many of his generation,
Uncle George had no penchant for war

elevator, it sets the stage for the exhibit
we are about to see. I

As the elevator opens at the
museum’s top floor, we are met with a
series of dramatic, wall-sized photo-
graphs.

First: a group of suntanned Gls in
khaki uniforms staring down on the

  
  

  

stories. Only chalk-like
rarely would corpses of
he speak to concentration
his wife and camp victims
chhildrep) oi; CHRISTOPHER stregvn in rat:
w at e ‘ roa cars an

seen in the MATTHEWS alongthetrain
camps: the ' - tracks. Next:
horriblethin- T“1§““e.Med‘a another color
ness of the ervlces photographof
people, the aBuchenwald
rank smell inmate look-

that filled the air.

That painful silence is about to be
ended. Entering the new U.S. Holo-
caust Memorial Museum, which opens
to the public Monday, we confront the
century's worst crime just as a liberat-
ing GI might in the last spring months
of World War II.

“We’vejustcome across something.
We don’t what know it is.”

The voice is that of an American
army officer issuing his first stunned
report from the 1945 German battle-
front. Broadcast to us on the museum

ing directly toward the camera, his
head in 3-D relief, as he cats with his
hands from a pot.

“The things I have seen beggar the
imagination,” the next exhibit quotes
Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower shown
standing with his fellow liberators at a
death camp. “I made the visit deliber-
ately in order to be in a position to give
firsthand evidence of these things if
ever, in the future there develops a
tendency to charge these allegations
merely to ‘propaganda.”’

This, it becomes clear, is also the

LETTERS

new museum ’s mission: to bear lasting
witness to what happened in Europe
between 1933 and 1945, to take some-
one through those 12 nightmare years
in two hours without the visitor ever
once stopping to check his or her watch.

lt’s that compelling, that unnerv-
ing. Film clips, photographs and tape
recordings take us through the Nazis
rise to power, the book burnings, the
anti-Semitic propaganda ‘of Joseph
Goebbels, the boycott of Jewish busi-
nesses, Kristallnacht, the oath of per-
sonal loyalty German soldiers were
required to make to Der Fuhrer, the
1939 invasion of Poland and the dis-
patch of the gruesome “killing squads”
to that country.

Some pictures are unforgettable:
that of the three Nazi storm troopers
standing in front of an F.W. Woolworth
store with the banner reading , “Kauft
Nicht Bei Juden” —-— “Don't buy from
Jews”; the faces of the priests, teachers
and other Poles standing in a town
square enduring the final minutes be-
fore they are to be shot; the list of the

' dozen men, most of them holding
Ph.D's, who attended the fateful meet-
ing in Wannsee, that beautiful lakeside
Berlin suburb where it was decided in
January 1942 that all Jews would be
“exported to the East” for purposes of
the “final solution.”

The wonder of the Holocaust Mu-
seum is that it asks visitors to retrace
these events much as the 6 million
victims did, through dimly-lit halls
leading to uncertain destinations, fi-
nally to the most awful display: a cre-
matorium, into which the unsuspect-
ing were marched by the tens of thou-
sands, each group as unwitting as the
one before, each believing the camp
guards who instructed them to sgip
for“de-lousing.”

“ They were arriving with the same

ignorance of their fate,” one Auschwitz
escapee recal led,“as the previous trans-
port‘?!
Thanks to the Holocaust Museum,
the victims, survivors and liberator of
this century’s and mankind’s most n-
imaginable evil can sense what hap-
pened in its human dimension, not just-
in still photographs but in movies, not
merely in the remote black-and-white
of the newsreel camera but sometimes
in the bright color of daily life, not 'ust
in the stark horror of bodies pile in
open ditches but in the smil ing-tumed-
sad faces of the victims.

We can see the targets of Nazism’s‘

wrath not just as my uncle and other
Gls spotted it in its spring 1945 rem-
nants but when the victims’ own lives
were still filled with hope.

© 1993 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

Lack of EC ideological funding is wrong . -

To the Editor:

an effect we can agree would be welcome. ’
As it is now, candidates do not present their stances

cause I once shared it. 1 once fancied myself a
warrior on the front lines to defend this conser-

This is an open letter to the Executive Committee
and the student body that elects it.

I feel absolutely compelled to voice my conviction
that the current EC funding policy, which denies
monies to “ideologically partisan” groups, is ridicu-
lous. I might find it laughable if 1 were not a student
here, and a concerned one. By withholding funds
from “ideological partisan” groups, the EC actively
undermines the vitality of the university’s intellectual
climate, making this school, as one member of the
committee recently phrased it, “boring.”

The argument that this university lacks the funds to
sustain an open funding policy is simply untenable.
Other schools of similar size, and with like budgetary
constraints do fund a diversity of ideological organi-
zations. Moreover, I would like to believe that we, as
a student body, would be willing to sacrifice a band or
a speaker if it meant invigorating the campus climate
by financially sustaining a variety of campus organi-
zations. '

The argument that an open funding policy would
lead to a problematic politicization of the EC is
equally invalid. An open funding policy that allowed
EC members to vote in accord with their own ideo-
logical sympathies would, in fact, have beneficial
effects. It would generate greater interest among the
student body in committee candidates and elections,

on any issues because there aren ’t any. Instead, candi-
dates simply paste a bunch of signs around campus
with their names on them. Personally, and I am sure I
am not alone in this, [don’t really care what the names
of the candidates are and_l certainly do not intend to
vote for someone because he took the time and spent
the money at Mountain Copy Graphics to add his ﬂier
to the homogeneous conglomeration that covers school
bulletin boards come election time.

I want to know about a candidate’s politics and
how that person ’s activity on the E.C. might affect the
campus climate. Specifically, I would like to know if
they intend to upset or defend the present climate, one
of overwhelming apathy, close—mindedness, confor-
mity, and stilling conservatism.

If people knew that their representatives would be
shaping the ideological landscape of the campus with
their EC votes, perhaps election campaigns would be
more volatile and interesting than the present contests.
Perhaps, ideas would begin to matter and debate
would begin to intensify. lsn’t that what we all came
to college for? Or did we come to have our biases
confirmed and our prejudices unchallenged?

I know that some on the EC fear than open funding
policy would precipitate an avalanche of liberal orga-
nizations ranting and raving about the university's
shortcomings. I understand this idiotic anxiety be-

r4&'4Y

.5... ».n,I. .-.-, . .

vative citadel from a liberal siege. What a fool I
was! And what fools are all those who retain that
sad fear. ‘

The college experience should be a demo-
cratic celebration and conﬂict of ideas. If liberal
suppon should proliferate in the wake of a
funding policy, an effect 1 would embrace ifnot
expect, we ought to receive that outcome as a
popular response reflecting student body senti-
ment. What are we afraid of? What are we
defending our college from but a potentially
more accurate and lively expression of student
opinion?

If an open policy sparks liberal activity, so be
it. If it sparks conservative activity, so be it;
though I must confess that 1 cannot see how
W&L could move any further right without
alienating any prospective student left of Attila ’
the Hun. The important principle to uphold is
that the university ought to do everything in its
power to actively stimulate and encourage ideo-
logical debate, controversy, conflict, and dis-
course. After all, this is college, not a country
club. Or is it?

Justin Peterson, ’94

....a».» .~.,., ,.a..,,o ..-,...-_i..   < 

 

I e Hing-tum Phi, April 29, 1993

OPINION

ooze enhances Spos‘ state of mind

res’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

Have you ever found yourself in
eofthosedeeplyintellcctual,pseudo-
ilosophical moods after consuming
o l’l‘1Ch of your favorite alcoholic

verage? A “Drunken Intellectual-
ation” of an idea or concept can, at
e time, seem relevant to today’s is-

es. But in retrospect, such excur-
ons of the mind can turn out to be
u mpletely silly and seem inconsequen-
al utmn the onset of sobriety.

The following is a collection of
nderings and thoughts, all dreamed
gs by Spos and his buddies during
mes of, shall we say, sobriety depri-
tion. Here goes:

1) The Fancy Dress Budget/Plas-
c Fcrk Rationalization.

Suppose Spos and his friends took

ery cent allotted by the Executive
ommittee for the Fancy Dress Ball

d blew the whole lump sum on plas-
c forks. Suppose we took these plas-
c forks and dumped them all in Evans
mug Hall. Assuming $85,000 in the
I budget and assuming that we could
et a deal on plastic forks by buying

em in bulk ($l.00=100 forks), we get
,500,000 forks total. Assuming that
00 forks make up one cubic foot, we
~ rive at a figure of 14,167 cubic feet of
0 rksy'This means that the D-Hall, with
.200 square feet of ﬂoor space, could
- filled to a depth of approximately
.2 feet. Sure, the Fancy Dress Ball is
fun time, but just think of how much
in we could have with a huge room

filled with over 2 feet of plastic forks.

2) The Mister Columbia Enter-
tainment Industry Conspiracy
Theory.

Mister Columbia is a shady, ethe-
real entity that influences, either di-
rectly or indirectly, every major money-
maker in the entertainment industry.
Mister Columbia has avirtually unlim-
ited supply of cash, which he uses to
exploit organizations and individual
entertainers. In fact, Mister C is re-
sponsible for every major sellout in
the entertainment industry, including
the downfall of the World Wrestling
Federation and Van Halen’ s recent sell-
out to the Pepsi Corporation. Anytime
you see Jim Palmer in an underwear
commercial or hear a radio jingle that
sounds remarkably similar to an old
Beatles tune, remember... it’s Mister
Columbia’s fault.

3) Does that hot girl/guy in my
Politics class know I exist?

The answer is no. He/She is going
out with someone who is much better
looking than you are. Don’t kid your-
self.

4) Sol Wachtler— Is he a victim of
a flawed judicial system?

Here we have New York’ s topjudge
and a Washington & Lee alumnus ac-
cused of doing a bunch of nasty things.
Who should we believe, Mr. Wachtler
or the press? What about all those years
he spent on the bench? Aren’t those
good for anything? Shouldn’t we just
give him the real-life equivalent of a
“get out of jail free card” and forget
about the whole silly mess? This is a
toughy. Ithink that Mister Columbiais
somehow involved in all this.

5) The Cosmic Theory of the Lex-
ington Postal System.

No matter where you are, no matter
what time of day, and no matter what
the weather is like, feel confident that
the Lexington Post Office is screwing
something up. Want to know why?
Because the
Le x in g ton
Post Office
is built on a

As a matter of fact, the

wouldn’t they start by brainwashing
our kids? American toddlers look up to
Barney. He teaches kids to share their
belongings, to brush their teeth after
every meal and to be nice to people.
That’s cool. He also tells kids to watch
his show every day because Barney is
smart, even
smarter than
Mom and Dad.
Barney tells chil-

piece ofland
that is gravi-
tationally
unstable. As
a matter of
fact, the
basement of
the post of-
fice is home
toafledgling
black hole
that opened
upwithinthe

basement of the Post Of-
fice is home to a ﬂedgling
black hole that opened up
within the past decade or
so. The black hole usu-
ally appears at around
midnight, sucks up a few
letters and packages, and
spits them out all the way
on the far side of the An-

dren that they
should always
watch his show,
even if Mom and
Dad say not to.
Hmmm... What
happens when
Barney teaches
kids to load an as-
sault rifle and
shoot their par-
ents if they don’t
agree with what

past decade
or so. The

dromeda Galaxy.

Bameysays? Just
something to

black hole
usually ap-
pears around midnight, sucks up a few
letters and packages, and spits them
out all the way on the far side of the
AndromedaGalaxy. Thus being“fed,”
the hole closes up again, just in time for
the next business day.

6) Barney the Dinosaur: Friendly
reptile or pawn of the neo-Nazis?

What is up with this Bamey the
Dinosaur character? Why are parents
complaining about him? There has to
be some substance to the anti-Barney
movement. Ifthe Nazis wanted to get
a foothold in American society,

think about.

Who says that
alcohol impairs brain functions’? It
seems to Spos that alcohol actually
enhances the thought process. How
else would we come up with stuff like
this? If we never got drunk, Barney
might take over the world. (Can’t you
just picture it — everyone standing in a
big circle, singing “I love you, you love
me, etc. etc. adnauseum.”) So don’tbe
afraid to think. If you don’t, we might
never figure out how many plastic forks
would fill the D-Hall. Without such
vital information, we would all be in a
load of trouble.

‘rofessor's exit signals decline

3; VIEW
By Patrick MeDermott

I write to inform my fellow students and all
embers of our community of the tremendous loss
hich we as a university are about to experience. At
e end of this term a truly remarkable person, a

‘ chq in the most meaningful sense of the word,
ill leave this campus forever.
I have personally been affected by this amazing

dividual’s strong commitment to her rbeliefsgandm
‘r indescribable ability to interest a student. in‘,the"

bject area which so interests her. Shehasavvakened
. untless minds to new possibilities and has caused
1 enormous amount of discussion and scrutiny to
e place concerning this university and its attitudes.
er name is Dr. Valerie Lind Hedquist and she is
signing as of May of this year.
Many of you may remember Professor Hedquist
om her ordeals with The Spectator. For those of you
ho were not here for this rather dark passage in the

It contributes to a denial of major health issues
facing our student body, not the least of which are the
sexual assualts which go unreported by the vast
majority of women for fear of being ostracized from
their social groups, as well as, denial about the
possibilities of contracting a sexually transmitted
disease for fear that by initiating provcn methods of
risk reduction one might be shunned. It is also the
reason that we lost highly qualified personnel like
Professor Hedquist, and, I might add, why we have
such an incredibly difficult time attracting the same

. qualified_pers(3nnel to acceptpositions at this school. ‘
What;l,wnj9h.a1|9ttgi.ns9t4c.c9mml+niIy.l9.d9.isto 
learn from the mistakes which have forced ProTessor‘

Hedquist to leave us and to realize that these very
mistakes are leading us down a path '
which can only bring us to a point lower

lack of diversity and tolerance. This is what is so
incredibly ironic about the voices of hate on our
campus who are systematically lowering the stand-
ing of our school while screaming that they are
attempting to maintain its traditions and continue its
former greatness.

It is time for us to realize that no matter what our
history, no matter how many famous people helped
found or attended this institution, no matter how
much money we pour into our programs, we are not
now, nor will we ever be, a truly great university until

we strive to achieve the compassion for our fellow V

human beings. ttwl.~.v,c..S<.>. s9rety,1a9.k- A.$:f0rPr9f°,-W
Hedquist’, it is for her that I have done this,‘ because

she should not feel her attempt at change to;.be~

unsupported or in
vain. I decided this

than that from which we began.

We as a university must begin to teach
tolerance if we are to move successfully
into the next century. We cannot con-
tinue to be oblivious to the diversity and

This lack of tolerance
is at the root of so many of
this community’s greatest

would be a more
constructive use
of my anger over
her departure.
However, on a

Counseling

The Peer Counseling Program is
now accepting applications for
membership. Application forms
maybe picked up from Mrs. Calkins
in the University Center. The dead-
line for applying is May 4 at 4:30
p.m.

Awards

The Executive Committee will
be taking nominations for the Frank
J. Gilliam Award and the Dr. Wil-
liam W. Pusey Award. The Gilliam
award is presented to the student
who has made the most valuable
contribution to student affairs over
the past year. The Pusey Award is
presented to the faculty member who
has made the greatest contribution
to the University. Please submit all
nominations to the Executive Com-
mittee.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation will be
the action thriller Reservoir Dogs
(USA, 1992), directed by Quentin
Tarantino. Showings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday and Saturday in the
Troubadour Cinema. As always,
there is no charge for admission.
The film is in English.

Preston Society

The Preston Society will present
a lecture by Col. George Brooke
Thursday, May 6 at 7 p.m. in Room
327 of the C-school. The title of the
speech is “lmpressions of VMI and
W&L since 1930.” The public is
invited to attend. The Preston Soci-
ety is an organization formed by
W&L students and VMI cadets, that
aims to bring students from both

schools together, and is intended to
promote..goodwill_:.betmeennthen »~ « «Re
= schools.-hyrofferivia. il0im.:‘~""-‘.1FltW:-.- --

-nityyservice projects, lectures, and
social events.

Art

“Icons and Images: Collages and
Assemblages by John D. Morgan”

Wardrobe  

On Saturday all faculty and stu-
dents who were cast as extras in The
Foreign Student and were asked to
go to a wardrobe fitting session
should report to El Rodeo at their
assigned time. Parking by El Rodeo
is limited, so walking is probably
the best idea.

Bells

The class-changing bell system
will be completely shut down dur-
ing the filming of The Foreign Stu-
dent on Monday through Wednes-
day, May 3-5.

Parking

Washington Street, from Lee Av-
enue to Nelson Street, will be closed
to traffic Monday through Wednes-
day, May 3-5. Faculty and staff will
be able to use Washington Street to
get to the back pan of campus, but
all parking on Washington Street
will be reserved for the ﬁlm crew.

Bikes

All bikes in the Graham-Lees
Quad must be moved to another
location by tomorrow morning so
that Buildings and Grounds can re-
move the bike racks. Additionally,
locking bikes to the various railings
in the quad will interfere with film-
ing of The Foreign Student in the
quad next week. Bikes may be
moved back on May 6.

gistration

. Registration for fall classes will
begin on Monday, May 3 and con-
tinue through Friday, May 7.Course
listings will be available on the Lib-
erty Gopher Thursday and in print

story of this institution, I will not disturb you with
e details of her encounter. I believe it is enough to
y that she personally experienced the full force of
at magazine’s well-known hatred.
For attempting to show merchants in the commu-
ity the kind of magazine they were supporting with
»- ir advertisements, she was treated to a host of
rea ning notes, disturbing comments, and calls
-o ‘a umni and students calling for her dismissal. I

problems. It cases us to
maintain and subsidize a
Greek system which is to-
tally out of control, so that
we might all fit into the
appropriate cliques rather
than standing out as indi-

W&L Past

An address by Sidney M.B.
Coulling, '48 and professor of En-
glish emeritus, will kick off festivi-
ties for alumni weekend, May 6.
Coulling will present his talk, "Re-
membrances of Things Past: W&L

changes of the outside world. We can no
longer continue this “ivory tower” ap-
proach to our educational experience,
allowing the forces of racism, sexism
and homophobia to rule our day-to-day
lives. Many have argued that there is a
place in our country’s vast educational
system for schools like W&L, and that
those of us who are in some way different

more personal
note, I will‘ share
with you, _ this
community which
I care deeply for,
what I would oth-
erwise say only to
her, “I have re-
cently mettheper-

is the title of a one-man show by the
artist on display at duPont Gallery
until May 14. Gallery hours are from
8 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday through Fri-
day.

Music

c this as one of the most vivid examples of the
oblem which I see steadily overtaking this univer-
ty. That is, the total absence of tolerance for anyone
ho thinks, acts, or looks differently than what is
ough to be the W&L “norm.”
Th's lack of tolerance is at the root of so many of
is c mmunity’s greatest problems. It causes us to
aintain and subsidize a Greek system which is
tally out of control, so that we might all fit into the
lopropriate cliques rather than stand out as individu-

s. It fosters a high level of alcoholism by exerting a
taggering amount of peer pressure to either “get

should either adapt or leave. I simply do
not agree with that kind of rationale be-

viduals.

son who will sue-
ceed you, and it

cause it has no logical support.

It is because I love this school so much
that I so desperately want it to change. As was
pointed out in a previous letter to this newspaper, a
university sees diversity as fundamental to the edu-
cational experience. After all, what can possibly be
learned in a classroom where all the students are
exactly alike?

Any honest administrator will tell you that the
only major reason that W&L is not seen in that
precious top ten list of liberal arts colleges is our total

was only at that

moment that it
truly occurred to me that you were leaving. You have
meant more to me than you will ever know. It is
because of you and a small group of others, and they
know who they are, that I have remained at this place
to “stick it out” and fight for change. I hope this letter
lives up to what you had hoped to do and I hope that
you will be happy wherever you find yourself. Thank
you for being my teacher and my friend. I will miss
you.”

A performance by the Roanoke
Symphony Orchestra will highlight
the events of a six-day music festi-
val, April 27-May 2 on campus.The
festival will close with a perfor-
mance of the orchestra on Sunday,
May 2, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest
Center.

Race

The Lexington Road and River
Relay, a race combining elements
of nmning, bicycling, and canoe-
ing, will be held on Saturday. Entry I
forms are available at Big Dog
Graphics and the Domino's Pizza.

General notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

rasteg or get lost.”

Photos and Interviews

By Melissa Curtis

nd Robert Stewart

What are your expectations for Spring Term’?  

4 Anne Marie Paulin, ‘95, Honolulu,

Hawaii — “Debilitating stupor.’

Kevin Webb, ‘95L, Bethesda, Md.
— “None, I have no life.’

Monica Robinson, ‘94, Houston, Texas and Holly Proctor, ‘94, Hampton,

Va. — “To get tons...of sun.’

TALKBACK

Fred Haring, ‘93, Mansfield, Ohio
— ”To graduate.’

Tory Noto, ‘96, Upper Saddle River,
NJ — “Women, wine, and song.’

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1993

FEATURES

Alcoholism in college: Its prevalence and how to spot it

By AMY REYNOLDS
Generation X Press

The news isn’t new - alcohol is the drug Americans use and abuse more than
any other, including nicotine, cocaine, marijuana, heroin and prescription drugs.

According to an annual study conducted jointly by the National Institute on
Drug Abuse and the University of Michigan’s Institute for Social Research, 90
percentof all high school seniors have tried alcohol despite the fact that it is illegal
for them to purchase it.

1n the United States alone there are between eight and 12 million alcoholics.
More than a million of these alcoholics are thou ht to be college-aged.

The NIDA/ISR study shows that 41 percent o all college students report that
they engage in occasions of heavy drinking at least once every two weeks. The
study deﬁnes heavy drinking as five or more drinks in a row on a single occasion.

The 41 percent ﬁgure is the highest of any group studied, ranging from high
school students to adults past college and peers the same age who aren’t enrolled
in school.

College students report a daily drinking rate of almost 4 percent, which is
slightly lower than their peers who are not in college, (about 5 percent) which
suggests that college students tend to limit their drinking to weekends, during
which they drink the most.

College men report having five or more drinks in the previous four weeks at
a higher rate than women — 50 percent compared to 34 percent. But according
to national ﬁgures, approximately one in three alcoholics is a woman, compared
to the one in six estimate used during the 19605.

All of these statistics reinforce that many people’s drinking problems and
behaviors begin in college. But how can you tell the difference between a
problem drinker, a possible alcoholic and a social drinker when alcohol flows so
freely on campuses?

One modem—day definition of an alcoholic is anyone who uses alcohol to such
an extent that it interferes with his or her personal, social or occupational
behavior.

Other definitions of the term “alcoholic” focus on the medical and physical
symptoms of alcohol abuse.

According to Kenneth Kopf, a drug and alcohol consultant at Susquehanna
University in Pennsylvania, a person can ask several questions about a friend’s
behavior that can help identify a possible problem with alcohol.

The questions include the following:

V Is the person drinking outside the “norm” for his or her peer group?

V Is a senior or graduate student still drinking like a freshman‘?

V Is a freshman drinking more than those around him or her?

V Is the person suffering consequences as a result of his or her drinking —
has he or she been involved in the school’s disciplinary system or arrested for
drinking or drinking-related behavior?

V Has he or she lost friends because of drinking?

V Has his or her drinking interfered with academics?

V Does he or she frequently embarass him or herself because of alcohol‘?

V Do his or her behaviors form a pattern of negative behaviors?

V The two most important questions are questions you can ask your friend
directly — Have you ever been concerned or worried about you drinking‘? Has
anyone close to you ever expressed concern about your drinking‘?

If the answer to any of the above questions is yes and you believe you or a
friend might have a drinking problem, Kopf says you can take appropriate action:

The most important step is to tell your friend you think he or she has a problem.
Give them specific examples of their behavior that have led to your conclusion.

If the problem persists, educate yourself about alcoholism. Kopf notes that
people tend to educate themselves about other diseases from which friends and
family members suffer and alcoholism is no different.

The more you understand about the disease the better prepared you are to help
a friend with an alcohol problem.

Because some alternative definitions of alcoholism involve medical and
physical indicators, to further help spot a person with an alcohol problem a basic

 

Hart
MEANS IOWRICES

understanding of the drug and its effects is helpful.

Psychologically speaking, alcohol elicits different responses from different
people. Some individuals become more violent and aggressive, while some are
considered “happy drunks.”

All of the behavior alterations alcohol causes are a result of alcohol  effect
on the brain. Studies have shown that alcohol enlarges the ventricles and empty
spaces found between
folds in brain tissue. This
effect is related to how
much a person drinks.

The result of this en~
largement is less blood
flow to the brain and pos-

According to professionals who
treat alcoholics, the withdrawal
process an alcoholic endures is

SibiY10\{Vrerl::\'elsdofoxy- more severe and more likely to
C , .. .. .
§e:,03:]. ‘en 5 ‘m W“ 6 cause death than withdrawal from

Changes in a person’s a narcotic drug such as heroin.
behavior result from
alcohol’s ability to sup-
press behavioral inhibitors
which generally means that people feel less afraid and anxious. Critical thinking
and judgment are suppressed as well.

Physiologically, alcohol dilates the blood vessels near the skin surface
allowing body heat to escape, this gives the drinker the feeling of warmth despite
the fact that the body is actually cooling intemally.

Alcohol is absorbed rather than digested. Plain water will slow the absorption
of alcohol by diluting it while carbonated drinks like soda speed the absorption
process. Food also slows the absorption process.

Basically, all of the effects of alcohol are heightened in higher concentrations
of alcohol in the blood (commonly called a person’s blood alcohol level — legally,
most states consider a person to be drunk if they have a blood alcohol level of .10

or higher).

Some physical indications of alcoholism include the swelling of capillariﬁs
around the conjunctive of the eyes, resulting in puffiness in the face, forehead,
and underneath the eyes. Sometimes, in fair—skinned individuals, the alcoholic’s
skin might appear continually flushed.

Frequent hoarseness also can occur because of an accumulation offluid in the
mucous membranes in the nose, pharynx, larynx, and vocal chords. .Alcoholics
also tend to feel nauseous and lose their appetites from an inflammation of the
lining of the stomach. ‘

Withdrawal symptoms include tremors (the most common and the most
persistent), anxiety, insomnia, nausea, vomiting, as well as “feelings of unreal-
ity,” delusions, hallucinations, disorientation and possibly seizures, depending
on how long and how severely a person abused the drug.

According to professionals who treat alcoholics, the withdrawal process an
alcoholic endures is more severe and more likely to cause death than withdrawal
from a narcotic drug such as heroin.

This, obviously, is the reason so many experts stress prevention.

As mentioned earlier, men tend to become alcoholics more than women. But,
more significantly, researchers have found that genetics plays a strong role in

predisposition to alcoholism.

A person with a parent who was or is an alcoholic have a higher incidence of
alcoholism, especially at a younger age. Some studies show that of the
approximate eight million men who are alcoholics, 40 percent have a genetic
predisposition toward alcoholism. The genetic link also exists in women.

Research suggests that anyone with any family history of alcoholism should
carefully monitor his or her drinking behaviors. Scientists are still researching
the genetic link.

Ifa person admits or suspects he or she has an alcohol problem, the best step
is to seek professional help from a family physician, the National Council on
Alcoholism, Alcoholics Anonymous, Dean Schroer-Lamont, Counseling P53-
chologist, and Dr. James Worth, University Counseling Psychologist.

 

Photo My Lindsey Colentan, the Ring’-tum I‘n[

 

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

 

LOW PRICE .
ANJOU, BOSC, RED BARTLETT, BARTLETT '"

MIX on MATCH *    

CALIFORNIA

STRAWBERRIES PM

QUART .98
3-IN-I 1.47

(3 PINT PK.)

 

JERRY ALLEN

LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288

WORK AT
THE BEACH!

ouR MYRTLE BEACH
A ~ AND HILTON HEAD
~  LocATIoNs ARE

T,  Now HIRING FOR
*   THE suMMER.

IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILToN
HEAD LocATIoNs oR MAIL
APPLIcATIoN TO: :,k,

  
  
 
  

HARRIS TEETER, INC.‘ ‘~.:

LITCHFIELD, S.C. 29585

Hams TBBEBI’

‘ WALDENSIAN QUALITY

DESSERT
REDDI-WIP
TOPPING ........................ ..7 oz.
1 69

PIE CRUSTS ...... ..l5 oz.
I-IOMESTYLE 2/ I 49 ‘

LOW SALT °

BOILED HAM

2/ 9 9 -
CUPS ....................... ..6 CT. 0
PILLSBURY
BREAD... .... ..24 oz. LOAF
LB

IN THE DAIRY $ECTION- CAN I 
9
ALL READY «
IN THE DELI-BAKERY

 

PERDUE GRADE "A"

  
     
    

BREAST
gUARTER$

LIMIT 3 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE,

PLEASE D
i :1‘...

REDUCED
PRICE

   

  
  

89

I2 PK.
I2 OZ. CANS

ICE MILK

T9

HALF
GAl..

FRESHLY SLICED
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK! To ORDER '
my cm“? a]; ALL FLAVORS REGULAR OR SALSA FLAVORED
COCA-COLA HIGHLAND CREST DORITOS ,

THINS

99.

I0 01.

 

Trademarks ®

Prices Effective Throu h April 27, I993

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, April 21 Through Tues cry), April 27, I993 In Our Mecltlenburg County Stores
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To ea

ers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 
 
     
     
   

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29,1993 " I PAGE 5

FEATURES ‘

Local author explores Women’s diaries Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS ‘
” ' . ii _ _ 1 Reﬁnery refuse
By JEANNE BNGGS hear lot today, Lyle sari.‘ The iwohmcii .\(Aj/flllllg tend to be much more selﬂess, 5 gcaristructton
Phi Features Editor ‘mg? m0%.umvCr§d“y nslhm’. S C Si“ ’ ‘ . . 10 Gun out

_u ()ne thing I have begun looking for is how they coped with depression. In 14 “cm. fof gov”

K one diary, 1 found a woman whose response to feeling down was to do chores. 15 Located in a city

atie Letcher Lyle, author of historical non-fiction and fiction for young NOW hm 100k1h8 _h” Olhcf CX31mP1°5- I f0hhd1lChT10Uf 1h?“ the” T93P0h$° '5 ho:  ﬁ,.£2,ahgii..p'.n
adults, lives and works right here in Lexington. to go call up a shrink but rather to work. Maybe there 5 a message there for us, 13 Climbing plant
’ Lyle, who attended Holliiis College, has been writing, researching and I-3'16 52119-_ _ _ i “ 2 gm”

ieacning in inc Lexingion aica for ininy yeam Lyle said she knew that she wanted to be a writer front the very beginning. I 22 commanded

She has published five novels for young adults, i always was ‘‘ “'“‘°r,J”5l hk°_ some PC0910 2‘ P'°‘(‘°“’ ‘°
twO of which were Newbery award finalists and always 1°‘/.Cd horses’ ’ LY10 5319- , gﬁmﬁm
one which was made into a TV special. She Shld ihfh 5h°_ had 9 Poem Pubhshcd academic year '

Lyle recently finished a book on American when she_wa§ lust eight years old. and has ggogggi mi.
camping for children, and is currently working on been Phhhshlhg h?Ti W0_Tk We!’ $1hCe- _ 35 c§,,,,,c,,°,,
a collection of excerpts from the diaries of 19th FY19 53119 that hVlh8 "1 I-iefhhglffh made 1‘ 38 Expunge
cennny Virginia woinen easier for her to pursue writing. I was the 37 $906

Lyle said, “I like research better than fiction.
I’w always been interested in historical non-fic-
lion.”

She said that she has already read 144 diaries

only person who wanted to edit the high ﬁg
school newspaper. One thing and another 429,399
[writing] was easy to do.” *4 "-")9
45
46

    

Lyle commented that the Lexington area

_ _ I i i i , _ it i_ d k ‘This ea snatiowiiiaoe eiziegmug “Mor5l:’SeMces. Inc. 04/29/93
W;lll€Il lfiy \:}1‘I‘gi)I(l)lak\«VOmCI1, and she IS looking for Ea? rIlel;°l)i)g<:)<:)€d1?ib;‘;if':1;1” stiigfsa-id “I hairlfﬂy 48 ggztmeo 125:: V Last week.S Puzzie sowed
a ocus or e o . v t

50 some songs 10 Cabal member

Lyle said, “I don’t know if the book will ever ever have to go elsewhere to do research” 52 Alweys.to poets 11 Indigent

   

come out, because I don’t know if I would know l dslhe 39969: ‘There 3 101 °fi‘1"_"'}e’5 aé°‘lmd» 53 gm  8;h:;':i‘:g piam
when I was done. It worries me to think of doing cm 9-X1hg}0h 15 3 PW-h)’ SOP ‘Shane P 3°C impnni,” 21 Tax agcin
anything ﬁnal because there are so many diaries. I to be], npt like other towns of five thousand :3 $.39 we b  i::I:?s
ivi,1:iii(i’wam [0 make Cenam I had read most of peolijyie currently teaches a graduate writing gS'ys:'$:°31‘°‘°r:‘ 1;? ::c"a'"' 5if°‘s
Lyle said that one thing the diaries she has read Semihar ,a‘,H°“i“Sv and has mught at South’ J8':08 on °'°V°p':°Sg
have in common is that there are no physical 9”‘ V"g”“a Cohege for Women and wash‘ g m"y“;°if;'t'y S3 ﬁgﬁy nine
descriptions of people. mgwn and.Lef m me Pi!“ . . 68 Ace or king 31 — Heights. lll.
‘There is not one single physical description in _ Lyle 5319» The H01hhS_ Whhhg Program 37 l-U90 ‘sad 3%?“ 'iV°'n,
any diary that lave Come across,» Lyie said. “Thai is one of the most famous in the country. It gs Asa?” '0“ 38 H2335 ies
may be because they really didn’t look at people has exlsted h°‘_” fol 30 Years: ahd "5 Srﬁdu‘ 39 Relatives
the way we do_ They didnai iive in such a coninien ates have published hundreds of books. ' 1  40 guru high. regard Mm/M
ciai age_» Lyle said that her advice to aspiring writ- 2 sin I. 43 “aged
Lyle also remarked on other differences she ersiwould be: . , 3 At head 45 Heating d°V'°°
noticed between women of the nineteenth century _ Write every single day. That s the best g\&J;Ll:na°n::;:d 2; ggioirle counter
“"'?i3"“i; no d th tth -.      3;‘§fa‘a°§;“§i£?*ii2‘3'pi“ei‘i$i&‘ér“i‘€§iﬁE ss:::;:,'=*°  :2i<:i:;:°~ 2s::;~:.:.:::'°'
ow ere I in a sense a ere wasn . A . t , ,, ' - _
enough time in the day, which is a complaint you Kane Letchel’ LYIG it has to be a part of your life. 5% mm 5‘ hgglfnhersi 57 (':i‘l£h‘ih?" 52 [3):‘r:'°:hi'd

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. The Pelican Brief, by John Grisham. (Dell, $6.99.) Law student
finds herself on the run from killers of two Supreme Courtjustices.

2. The Firm, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5 .99.) Young lawyer
confronts the hidden workings of his firm.

3. Jurassic Park, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A
theme park’s cloned dinosaurs are creating a world crisis.

4. Life’s Little Instruction Book, by H. Jackson Brown] r. (Rutledge
Hill $5 .95 .) Advice for attaining a full life.

5. All Around the Town, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Pocket, $6.50.)
A collegestudent is accused of killing her professor.

6. On the Pulse of Morning, by Maya Angelou. (Random House,
$5.00.) Poem recited at President Clinton’s inauguration. '

7. A Time to Kill, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) Racial
tension rims high during a trial.

8. Jazz, by Toni Morrison. (Plume, $10.00.) Passionate story of
obsession and music set in Harlem in the 1920s.
V ‘ . — V ..  9.The Autobiography of Malcolm X, with Alex Haley. (Ballantine,
OU CiOl'l’t have t0 be crunchll t0 iOV9 y0UI' earth Ph°'° “Y D‘"”‘" w'""°“’""" R"'g'"‘"' P“ 55-993 The black leaderis M9 5W)’-

_ , _ , 10.3 k|ash,b S Fld'.(Anh ,$12.50.)P ‘fl (1
Cold weather forced the Earth Day Hootenanny inside last Thursday, but that didn I stop freshmen Andy Vota and Tommy ingnicniig iodk ai iyneiilisiﬁiiciaiiiclii iwai. ,g§,-,§’,', American  an
Eisposito, senior Fred Haring and junior Chris Holmes from celebrating.

    

  
   
    

  

 
    

   

  Fumlture Dealers Barn artment f0r.Rent _ 0»  
For your extra pieces of furniture _ _ _ _ _ . ‘ I V ’LiEXII]g:t0Il  

.115 s. Main St. Lexington 463-2742 For two people In "a pnvatg faculty. 130 s'Mms'" ‘lid MS” 9i1“°°" 4637969 
' i . Stalls, individual turnout, use iofia ring, * - T T‘ 1‘;

_ M; 91-»  — jumps and trails. Price negotiable.  § 5:

i. @%7 (ja11Nick at 992.1059 1990 Mustang Convertable LX 5.0 ‘r

 

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS Racmg Green’ Whlte top  Leather’
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving All Optlfmsa 149000 m1le5> always

STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT I 9 garaged. As new.
'11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones   9 3..fl’l. - 5  

 

   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
     
   
   
   
   
 

Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022 A I i f _ i
r T“     xi OUTI g - 2
W&L-Art N , mu F . M , dW0men,sA.mivear- ezzée 4 e/.u!cm»mm!
  s;;i:.w.i.,:::i°§i...:*ii2i*..n%  t at LEE-H1
'Si natures. Everyday_-GUARAN'I_‘El§D_! We receive. _ Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday
Fnzhngh Leeg i§_E_ Lee’ in; merchandise fromAn_iencas‘mostfarnousr_na1l Night 11 p_m_ to 4 a.m_
M. Mtley John Letcher orderhouses. New shipments Every Week! Ai1_U_Can Eat 34.39 V
«. Edward Valentine In—StoreWareliouse Sale on Nationally Famous. Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 3-H140 2

W&L C0pp¢rI>1atefhand-Colored Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear.’
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art ' ‘

Sculpture by Ron Tunison There are reductions from 25 - 75% on Men’s and '

p.m. A1l—U-Can Eat $4.99
Wednesday Night BBQ Night -choice of

Mary and George Washington pieces Women’s Clothing 1/ZR k  & Vsgﬁtalbla k $ 1 O 9 5
. ac " . 0 8 ac ' .
Famous knit tops for women - regularly $18 -? Saturday Night prime Rib
. NOW $3.00. Selected Henley Shuts reduoed_to*$3.00. Queen Cut 3 1 1 _95 King Cut $ 1 3 .95

@ ' ' . Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - B
;1’eE)3da:£t\")Vr211's\l}l1nn§E}o4rii_)8treet m I 1y $40 __ mduced to $7.99 reakfast,  ancii Sinner served

4 miles North on Route 11

   
   
   

 
 

 
 

_ . Open Monday -__,.JSa,tur,day . Downtown (Robert E"."Lee Bldg.) we acce t Visa Mastercard Choice and :

.   _ 10 am: ' -530 P-m- .. I ‘ Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30 P g
CK . Jj 703-463-9730 _ _ g

' ' ' ‘ *"’ Q-u-—‘£'_—-e’-—---nu":--— -—_-_v';_‘—7-*--_‘ ‘Hi i 2

Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards . , STUDENT SERVICESiBOX 1Z9Zll.PLAllTAlI0ll.FL 3331 i qudiotronics i

Now you can. have two of the most recognized and '  I L . 0 i cud“ I. .Aum° ' VIDEO ' CAR sumo i

. accepted credit cards in the worid...visao and Masicrcardo I Q '‘‘'‘‘““”s“ "“"‘S‘E“c‘“, ‘D! ' canon SONY '

cred" Cafds.-"in Y0!" name-" EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW ‘N I Cards Enclosed find 825 which is 100% refundable if not I ADCOM -V ALPINE
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! it . appnwed imnicdiaieiyi 9 - - _ .; ;:§H|BA mgAN12
VISA!’ and Mastcrcarde the credit cards you I - _ ' . s ' ’ - T ‘ I ' N _
deserve angrrseed f.or- io—Oif’ooEKNsr—$§:lAl;r§irii:Al§rm I NAME  .  V _ I ~iB<3§§3i'i - 3333}?
  j j i . _ V u ,l’(. U .
EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKETS—RES'I‘AURAN'IS—— : ADDRESS 9 _ i . .
HC_7l‘ELS—MOTELS—(‘AS-CAR RENTALS-— « V   -- ;c W N7

’ REPAlRS—ANDTO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! I CITY ' V " STATE _ZIP “ ' ' .:,’:g‘§;’§c‘§§’2,°,‘,‘;;f.”.?,.".;‘, 
v |  » “i I - MASTERCARD/VISA/DISCOVER 

. e ' .u'\:  i I‘ ' . ‘

. w“‘» . 046- 7%»;

3 ‘M item No credit I SIGNATURE , . . ' (8 -0) 8 666 K 2 . 7*»;

L . s,|tAl5‘:', 55"‘ lo security devﬁsit! ' noirzaamac-iuis-rogue:-aauuduunrucru-iaoisuinuiuui-tiountirie ' °‘;;,":;,:f,g:*;‘*;:,g;°;f;'f‘,;,{,",j,,°,d* ‘
. __ -_ . . V\wn.eII"-n 9:9; valabsol id guam ted” I vioaiuiegisimuuaecu-iurvisAusA.u-euiutfisuitcn-eoiui : 35°09“, R°,d_R°,,,,,,,,
- I P” “ Y " I $°"'°=' *"°°"“°" 100% GUARANTEED! --
_¢§,,‘-ca- .l_.__________n_9______’______J

 

  

Last Week:

WLax — W&L 10, Roanoke 9 OT (12-2)
M&WTennis — 1st at ODAC Champs.
MTrack — 3rd at ODAC Champs.
WTrack — 2nd at ODAC Champs.

  S

PAGE 6

Title ilttng-tum 1311?

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

This Week:

MLax — at Mt. St.
WLax — ODAC Championship 5/1
MTrack — at Lynchburg Invit.
WTrack — at Liberty Multi—event

Mary’s

Tennis exceeds goals

Women’s team first in O

DAC despite obstacles

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

lfovercoming obstacles is any indication ofthe
merit ofa team, this year’s women’s tennis squad
will go down in Washington and Lee history as the
best of all time.

Though three players of the top eight are study.-
ing overseas spring term, the team won its third
straight Old Dominion Athletic Conference title
handily this weekend. W&L claimed charnpion-
ships in every spot but No. 6 singles and No. 3

young team; only one player, Baker, has had any
championship experience. “We’ve exceeded our
goal,” she said. ‘

Baker is virtually a shoe-in to get a bid to the
National tournament, and she and Ayers hope to go
as a doubles team. Though the squad’s only Divi-
sion lll losses were to the first- and fifth-ranked
teams in the nation (and W&L beat 12th-ranked
Swarthmorc), the Generals cannot receive an auto-
matic team bid because the regional tournament,
which qualiﬁes two teams, is during exam period.

Even if a bid is obtainedW&L will be unable to
attend as a team because of a rule conceming
players on the original roster who will not go to the

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Ay, Batter Batter...

doubles.

A member of the Washington and Lee club softball team lofts a single during
yesterday's doubleheader. The Lady Generals are 4-2 on the season after games
against Hollins and Southern Virginia College for Women.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

The Liberty Hall Field will
host this weekend’s Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference
Women ’s Lacrosse Tournament,
thanks to Washington & Lee’s
10—9 overtime win at Roanoke
College on Sunday.

The Generals (12-2 overall,
8-0 in the ODAC) won their first
ever regular—season ODAC title
in a rematch of last year’s touma-
ment championship game. Se-
nior Paige Henke scored 25 sec-
onds into the ﬁrst overtime for
the one-goal victory margin.

Senior Lisa Dowling scored
four times to lift her single-sea-
son school record to 74. She is
two points shy of 100 for the
season. Junior Angie Carrington
netted three goals, including the
game-tying score with 1:15 re-
maining in regulation time.

Carrington is second to
Dowling in goals for W&L with
37, ahead of Henke (31), sopho-
more Nicole Ripken (30), and
sophomore Lindsay Coleman
(29). The Generals have scored
222 goals in 14 games and their
average victory is 16-7.

The Generals host Randolph-
Macon College, who beat
Bridgewater in a quarterfinal,
Friday at 4:00 p.m. on the Lib-
erty Hall Fields. Earlier this sea-
son, the Generals beat R-MC 18-
5 in a game in which Dowling
scored seven goals and added
five assists.

In the other semi-final game,
Roanoke will play Lynchburg
College at 1:30.

The championship game is
scheduled for Saturday at 2:00
p.m.

The Washington and Lee
baseball sqaud rode out the sea-
son on a 12 game slide to finish
1993 at 4-15 overall, 3-13 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence.

After a very promising 4-3
start, the Generals turned from
the Big Bad Wolf into Green
Jelly. Opponents outscored the
Generals 115-39 over the 12
game losing streak that ended the
season.

In the final weekend of play,
W&L dropped a home double-
header to powerhouse Guilford
College (5-1 and 4-0), and then
lost a a twin—bill at Randolph-
Macon College (11-3 and 6-4).

Senior captain Jon Hesse, the
team’s only member of the Class
of ’93, ended his career second
on the school’s all-time list for
doubles with 21. He batted a ca-
reer high .333 this season with
nine doubles, 2 home runs, and a
team-high 13 Runs Batted In. He
also led the team in hits (25), runs
(13), and slugging-percentage
(.533).

Hesse, who had started at
shortstop for W&L every game
since his sophomore year, struck
out only twice in 75 at bats.

Sophomore Bates Brown was
the team home run leader with
three. Classmate Duane Van
Arsdale hit .329 with two home
runs» (six career) and 12 RBI.
Freshman Graig Fantuzzi led the
pitching staff in wins (3), com-
plete games (3), innings pitched
(46.0), and strikouts (33).

All is set for the fight of the
decade. Bowe-Lewis? No.
Knicks-Bulls? No.Roanoke Col-
lege—Washington and Lee!

The two rivals will be un-
beaten in conference play when
they meet next Thursday, May 6
at Wilson Field for the men’s
lacrosse Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship.
Roanoke is ranked fifth nation-
ally in Division III, while W&L
is tenth. .

The Generals have climbed
three spots since the pre—season
rankings, while the Maroons have
fallen two places. Whether that
means anything will be decided
in front of a rowdy, jam-packed
Wilson Field crowd next Thurs-
day.

W&L improved to 9-2 over-
all, 5-0 in the ODAC, with con-
secutive routs of Hampden—
Sydney College (17-6) and
Guilford College (21-4) last
week.

Senior Wiemi Douoguih be-
came the 15th General in history
to reach 50 points in a season. He
now has 51 points: 31 goals and
20 assists. David Lefkowitz is
second on the team with 25 goals.

This Saturday, the Generals
will travel to Mt. St. Mary’s for a
meeting with their Division 1
squad. That will be the last game
before the Big One next Thurs-
day, which precedes the May 8
Lee-Jackson Classic.

“We had a wonderful season,” said ODAC
Player of the Year, sophomore Marilyn Baker. She
was the number one singles champion and shared
the No. 1 doubles title with freshman Julie Ayers.

Other singles winners included freshman Shelley
Sunderman, Ayers, freshman Helen Chandler and
sophomore Leslie Copeland. Sunderman and Chan-
dler claimed the No. 2 doubles championship.

“It was fantastic—the most championships
we’ve ever had,” said coach Cinda Rankin, who
was victorious in her own discipline,claiming the
honors for ODAC Coach of the Year.

She was amazed at the success of her very

tournament.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Captain John Hunter fends off his Guilford competitor during Washington and Lee’s

21-4 blasting of the Quakers last week.

Record-setters run around

From Staff Reports

If it’s true that the third time is the charm, the
Washington and Lee track teams will be sitting
pretty next year.

Both the men and the women repeated their
performance from last year’s Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championships, with respective
third and second places Saturday at Bridgewater
College.

Honors for performance of the day go to the
men’s 400-meter relay team of juniors Scott Covey
and John Robinson, freshman Dax Mahoney and
sophomore Hayne Hodges, which gained first place
in conference record time of 42.5 seconds. This
time is only two-tenths of a second away from
provisional qualification for Division 111 National
Championships.

Leading the men, as he has done all season, was
Greek God (yes, an ODAC athlete was actually
overheard calling him that) Mahoney. He earned
Athlete of the Year honors after winning the 200-
and the 400-meter dash and participating in the
winning 400- and 1600-meter relays.

Senior David Phillips also had an Olympian
performance, winning the 1 10-meter hurdles, plac-
ing second in the 400-meter hurdles and running in
the 1600 relay.

Other individual champions included Robinson
in the 100-meter dash and senior Harrison Shull in
the high jump. Shull soared over 6-6 in his final
ODAC appearance.

“We improved in almost every event, both in-

 

  

 

door and outdoor,” said coach Norris Aldridge. The
Generals fell only 17 points behind first-place
Lynchburg and three points from second-place
Bridgewater.

' It was the same old story for the women, who set
several conference and school records and scored
voluminous amounts of points, but fell 27 points
short of first-place Eastern Mennonite College.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer had a run—of-the-
mill outing, winning both the 1500- and the 3000-
meter runs in conference record time. Classmate
Sandra Holmes was the General’s only other indi-
vidual champion, mastering the javelin throw.

Holmes, who earned the second-highest point
total for W&L at 22, also set a new school record in
the discus throw.

Other record setters Saturday included junior
Wendy Neel, who shaved ﬁve-tenths of a second off
her 100 time, and sophomore Sarah Gilbert, who
finished the 400 hurdles 3.5 seconds better than her
former school-record time.

Gilbert was the most prolific point-scorer of the
Generals, earning 35.5 points while competing in
more events than she could count.

Both the men and the women are hoping to obtain
National-qualifying performances in post—season
competition. The men’s 400 relay is the brightest
hope, but Mahoney in the 400, senior Bo Hannah in
the 5000 and 10,000 and Phillips in the 110 hurdles
are also pursuing qualification.

Schaeffer, whose l0,()00 performance at Duke
was a provisionally qualifying time, will try for an
automatic at University of North Carolina May 8.
The Duke race was her first-ever attempt at the
event.

W&L is down for the tournament, but not out.
The players are looking forward to next season, as
everyone will be returning.

“Our team is improving and there is a lot of
promise for the future,” said Baker. Rankin praised
the spirit of the team.

“The enthusiasm was contagious,” she said.
“As soon as we won the championship, they were
immediately looking forward to next year.”

With two athletes hoping to go to Nationals and
an ODAC title, the team can hardly complain.

“It’s so exciting,” said Rankin. “I never dreamed
that we would be so good.”

APRIL 29,1993

Golfers claim third

By Keith Grant 9‘
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee golf team placed third in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Championship in Richmond, 27
strokes behind champion Guilford.

Guilford golfers placed one-two, and W&L’s Pearce Smithwgck
claimed third place with a 158, nine shots back.

Smithwick and teammate Bo Williams were both named to the
All-Toumament team. Williams shot a 163 to place sixth.

Guilford defended their 1992 title with a 630 for the two-day
affair. Hampden—Sydney followed at 647, ten ahead of W&L.

Washington and Lee has won the tournament six times, most

recently in 1990 and 1991.

Last week, Scott Redmond shot an 82 in his first collegiate roﬁnd
to lead the Generals to a second place finish at the Virginia Wesleyan/
ODAC Invitational. Also last week, Jimmy Kull shot a 38 to win the
rain-shortened Shipbuilders Invitaional in Newport News.

W&L had a 9-4-2 regular season record, their 22nd consecutive

winning season. '

Men’s tenniswins ODAC;
MacNaughton leads way

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The last time the Washington
& Lee men’s tennis team failed
to win the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference title, Ronald
Reagan was seeking re-election
and Barry Bonds was in high
school.

The Generals won their ninth
straight title, and their 14th in the
ODAC’s 17 years of competi-
tion. W&L won eight out of nine
flights for the title.

Junior Robbie MacNaughton
took ODAC Player of the Year
honors.

He won at No. 1 singles and
teamed with Peter Hammond to
win at No. 1 doubles.

MacNaughton and Hammond
are 17-6 on the year and are
ranked sixth.

Hammond also won at No. 4
singles.

Chris MacNaughton teamed
with Wes Ruggles to win at No.
3 doubles, while David Schweppe
and Robert Wein won at No. 2
doubles.

MacNaughton, Ruggles, and
Schweppe were all singles win-
ners as well.

Generals head coach Gary ‘

Franke was awarded the ODAC
Coach of the Year Award for the
seventh time.

W&L gave Hampden—Sydney
its first loss of the season last
week, 7-2. That upped the G§n-
erals to 6-6 in dual match compe-
tition and 3-0 in the ODAC.

 

MacNaughton

   
     

Caring, stable single female

 

 

 

 

 ///

/ « ' ’ % school teacher desires to
/ ' . / adopt a baby. Financially secure.   
é , .. ' ‘ % Can provide loving & fun family.
Z , - _. é Call collect 804-572-8403 or   ,
Z  U A, g write P. o. B3Xt:i55.£oum Boston.    u

Three months till summer; do you have a job? é " 33,   _ ; _ .' g —' -d

Resumes - Cover Letters . Flyers . Copies - Binding g I Wmterchandzse « é Florida Spring Break 1 Medicine can affect your balancﬁ, C0
Come see us -- we’ll make you look good! ¢ 507 0 - ' . ' / 7 nights Beachfront $119-149 _ 0rdination.and_v1s_ton as riiduc asd
. / 23 N. Main St. 0 J7 (703)463-5988 / Deadline soon. ?1°°.*‘°1-A“9§d‘?“1““g°E‘3 its me‘
If" NEl:lSio(l3Il\Jsl;31:‘E:T63-LI1:j'gI2 N. C:AS)§: 463-6918T Q g Lexinton, VA 24450 _ ' /Z Reserve rooms Now! iiitiiensiiiieiyriiigziigitin. o
" ' . °T° ‘A ° “‘° “‘“°S °F“°E  % Ca1lCMI 1-800-423-5264 Mo1nncycL5sArmrounnAT|oN .. J
= _ 

 

For Rent:

In Lexington, available June 15

1 B.R. duplex apt. Ca1lMike.

Flint at White/side Realty 463-1187 E, Neisongst,

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30’a.m.-6 p.m.

Valley  2

Hardware, Paint and Related Items 0

Lexington 463-21

Sun..1-5 p.m.

 
 
   
      

month for the unit.
— Great Location

i
4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home, ‘
l

l
i

 

Apartment for Rent

Cateiing to W&L Students — Two—bedroom apartment for
rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk from
the W&L campus. $150 per month, per bedroom. $300 per

 

— Recently Renovated, painted and new carpet
— Landlord Pays for Water, Including Hot Water

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown,
at 463-3013.

86

Gfoiil a it-:Et

INIVERSITV

1£‘<lNG’:‘ON, VA 244:0

Alumni Weekend Edition

MAY 0 7 1993

 

Weekend Weather

Friday — Mostly Sunny,
high 70’s

‘Saturday —— Mostly Sunny,
high 70’s to low 80’s

Sunday — Partly cloudy,
high 70’s

Professor Sidney Coulling

Remembers the Past in Address
for Alumni Weekend

The Thrill of Victory

Women’s Lax Romps Roanoke

(E)

0112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

OLUME 92, NO. 25

Q

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON,

VIRGINIA

May 6, 1993

approves Delt’s July return

Fhe Delta Tau Delta house is still undergoing renovations. Stu-
ients will be able to move into the house by September 1.

Pub Board
requests
$5,000

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

The Washington and Lee Publica-
tiﬁns Board requested $5,000 from the
Executive Committee Monday to cor-
rect an 18—month—old budgeting error.

Richard Peltz and Cathryn
Lopiccolo appeared on behalf of the
Pub Board. They said former EC Vice
President Bo Russell authorized a
$’§,()0() withdrawl from the Pub Board’s
reserve funds in October 1991.

According to Peltz, this money was
later used to fund The Ring-tum Phi.
Pelt’/. said this money should have been
taken from the EC’s reserves and not
from the Pub Board.

I “The Pub Board was never informed
[of the withdrawal],” said Peltz.

Peltz saidthcmistake occurred while
he was serving as President of the Pub
Board. Pelt‘/, and Lopiccolo discov-
ered the error while reviewing the Pub
Board’s financial situation.

Q “I feelpartlyresponsible,”saidPeltz,
a senior, “and I’d like to see something
done before I leave.”

Peltz asked that the EC “leave a
standing order with [Assistant Con-
troller of the Business Office Donald]
Holt to transfer S5,000 back to the Pub
Board.”

Peltz said after the $5,000 discrep-
ancy was found, he went over the Pub
Board’s financial records with Holt.

“A computer gave Bo Russe1l’s
name as the authorizer,” said Peltz.

EC President Josh MacFarland said
he does not believe Russell intended to
steal the money from the Pub Board.

“I don’t think it was [Russel_l’s]
fault,” he said. “I seem to think that
what was done was done out in the
open.” _

MacFarland said the EC does not
‘currently have the money necessary to
‘reimburse the Pub Board.

‘‘I just don’t think we can do it
now,” said MacFarland at Monday’s
EC meeting. “I would rather see next
year’s committee deal with this dis-
crepancy.”

The EC agreed to attempt to pay the

‘Pub Board later this year, when it will
receive surplus money from EC-funded
organizations. If it still doesn’t have
enough money, the EC will leave a
recommendation for next year’s com-
mittee to fix the error.

Calyx Editor and Pub Board mem-

“oer Antheny Catalano said the Pub
Board will put the money to good use
by buying L,‘ql,lll"“l‘.‘lll for the smaller
publications on the board.

“Right now, [the smaller publica-
tions] have to use the Ring-tum Phi’s

..and the Calyx’s equipment.”

By ANDREA Coiiiztxi
Phi News Editor

Come July 1, Delta Tau Delta will
be back on campus.

The Student Affairs Corrtniitte voted
unanimously Friday, April 30 to for-
mally reinstate Delt, which was sus-
pended iii January 1992 for damaging
their house. The original suspension
was for five years, what some mem-
bers called a “death penalty” for the
chapter. That decision was later re-
duced to an 18 month suspension,
followed by three years of critical pro-
bation. “ —

“I think the penalty...should punish
the current chapter without jeopardiz-
ing the prospect of a renewed and
strengthened presence of the fraternity
at Washingt()n and Lee,” Presidentlohn
Wilson wrote in his recommendation
to SAC to reduce the penalty in Febru-
ary 1992.

Delt president Patrick McCabe and

house corporation member Kevin
Webb, ’95L, made a presentation to
SAC to show them what changes they
have made over the past year and what
plans they have for next year.

Howison said the fraternity will ac-
tively return to all aspects of fraternity
life on the campus in the fall. Most
importantly, that includes a vote on the
lnterfratemity Council and the ability
to participate in rush.

In accordance with the original pun-
ishment, Delt will be on critical proba-
tion for three years. They will not be
limited or restricted from any social
activities, Howison said. The frater-
nity has a strong warning that during
that period of probation if there is a
serious violation of the university’s
pol icies towards fraternities, Delt could
be permanently kicked off the W&L
campus.

Howison said SAC was impressed
with the work the students and alumni
have done since their suspension.

Delt reorganized their internal or-

ganizations, adopted a new set of by-
laws, and improved their relations with
their alumni and nationals.

McCabe said Delt’s bylaws hadn’t
been updated since 1966. One of the
major changes in the new bylaws con-
cerns the election of officers in the
fratemity.

Delt officers will now serve Janu-
ary to December terms rather that April
through May terms.

“This increases the amount of time
to allow for a smooth transition be-
tween officers,” McCabe said. “We’ll
have the out—goin g officers there for a
longer period.”

Another change in the officer struc-
ture is that some officers will be ap-
pointed by the president instead of be-
ing elected by the entire fraternity. The
president, vice-president, treasurer,
assistant treasurer, rules committee
chairman, corresponding and record-
ing secretaries, guide and seargant-at-
arms will still be elected. But the rush
chairman,scholarshipchairman,pledge

By THOMAS HESPOS

Phi News Editor

educator, alumni relations chairman,
house and ground chairman, publicity
chairman and social chaimian will now
be appointed by the president.

“It's necessary for the president to
have officers who he can work the best
with and get the most done,” McCabe
said. “That's not necessarily who gets
elected. We assume everyone is ca-
pable of handling the responsibility lof
being an officer]. We wzuit to give the
president the freedom to choose who
he can work the best with.”

Howison thinks this change will be
beneficial to the fraternity.

“To be successful at the next stage
Deltneeds unity in the house,” Howison
said. “I thought that was a good admin-
istrativc move.”

McCabe said Dell has worked hard
to improve relations with their alumni.
In February, members of the fraternity
met with their alumni and established a

:1 See DELT, page 8

Revisions pass

before taking office, this amendment ensures
succession of the official by calling for an
election. ’

3) Voting Regulations Board

    

Photo by Nancy Pavlovic, The Fl/ng-tuzirn Phi

Thirty cadets attended a debate on VMl’s controversial coedueation issue.

Two cadets pulled from debate

By ADAM Pi.o'ri<iN
Phi Contributing Writer

tion is waiting to be heard by the United States
Supreme Court.
The other cadet, B. Scott Coleman, appeared on

Two Virginia Military liistitute cadets sched-
uled to participate in the April 29 debate on coedu-
eation at VMI were pulled from the docketjust days

before the event.

“Commandant [Colonel N. Michael] Bissell
called us into his office and said that [VMl’s]
lawyers didn’t want us making public statements,”
said Cadet Clarence Tweety. “The lawyers felt that
our opinions could be misconstrued as the official
VMI position, and they didn't want that to interfere

with the court case.”

The VMI appeal to remain a single-sex institu-

Leyburn dies at 91

FROM STAFF REPORTS

l2unesG.Leyburn,oneofWashing-
ton and Lee University’s riiost distin-
guished teachers and scholars, died of
complications brought on by pneumo-
nia on Wednesday, April 28, in Mary-
land.

Leyburn, who was 91 when he died,
came to W&L in 1947 from Yale Uni-
versity where he haditaught sociology
for 20 years. Leybum served as dean of
the university until 1955 when he re-
signed from that position so he could
devote himself fully to teaching.
Leyburn was head of the department of
sociology and anthropolgy until 1967,
retiring as dean and professor emeritus
in 1972.

Almost as soon as he began his
career at W&L, Leybum proposed
strengthening the university’s academic
standards and making the curriculum
closer to the liberal arts ideal. In what
became known as the “Leybum Plan,”
he said that his goal as dean was that
“everyone by common consent [should]
name us first on the list of great teach-

‘ ing universities,just as everyone tends

to name llarvard"first in any list of
great research universities.”

When Leyburii retired in 1972,
former W&L president Robert E.R.
Huntley said that “the subsequent his-

television stating that he preferred VMI to remain
single-sex before he was pulled from the debate,
which was sponsored by W&L’s chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union, the Federalist
Society and Women’s Forum. Professor Allan
Ides, of the Washington and Lee School of Law
argued that VMI should maintain its siiigle—scx
admissions policy, while Nadine Strossen argued
for, coedueation. A. Lionel Taylor, Jr.,’93L, and
Jodi D. Lowry,’94L, replaced the cadets, arguing

_I See VMI, page 8

 

After more than ﬁve weeks of waiting for
results from the Voting Regulations Board, the
Executive Committee released the news Friday
that all amendments of the 1993 Constitutional
Referendum passed.

“lt’s definitely a positive thing,” said EC
President Josh MacFarland. “It’s going to
essentially clear a few things up... and put into
writing a few things that we already do.”

Over 51% of enrolled students participated
in the election.

iMacFarland said amendment seven is par-
ticularly important to the EC. The amendment
covers the circumstances under which the EC
can go into executive, or closed, session. Be-
fore the amendments were passed, the Student

Body Constitution stated the the EC “shall not

go into executive session, except in the case of

possible honor violations.”

These changes will be recorded in next year’s
White Book and Student Handbook. Most of
the changes clarify and legislate current EC‘
practices.

The revisions are as follows:

1) Style

Fixes up the language in the Student Body
Constitution so that it is stylistically consislant.

2) Succession

In the case of a withdrawal of an EC official

Designates the VRB to supervise elections.

4) Maintaining Quorum and Filling Va-
cancies

Calls for elections to fill vacancies in the
EC. Fills temporary vacancies to maintain
quorum during Spring Term.

5) EC/Pub Board Relationship

Limits EC jurisdiction of the Pub Board.
Sets Pub Board minimum reserve at $3,000.

6) Student Conduct Committee

Updates constitution to abolish Facultv EC
supervision of the SCC. Subject to later review
by the faculty.

7) Executive Session

Keeps EC from going into closed session,
except in the case of honor investigations and
hearings, interviews for committee appoint-
ments, deliberations on awards and appoint-
ments, disciplinary hearings involving coni-
mittee members and cases involving White
Book confidentiality.

8) Publications Subscriptions

Allows the EC to negotiate the price of
yearbook and newspaper subscriptions.

9) SCC President

Ensures that the EC schedules winter temi
elections. Releases the EC from prior rules that
determined the date of elections. Adds the
position of SCC President as an elected of fice.

tory of Washington and Lee has been,
in large measure, the history of imple-
menting the Leyburn Plan.”

Lcyburii was the author ofsix books,
two of which, The Ilaitian People and
'1 ‘he Scotch-Irish.‘ /1 Social I I islory, are
considered classics in the field ofsoci-
ology.

Leyburn was a member of Phi Beta

Diversity:
     Catch-word

 

Kappa, Sigma Xi, and Omicron Delta
Kappa honorary fraternities and the
Elizabethan Club of Yale. He received
the Lynchburg Citation in 1969. The
citation is presented annually by the
Washington and Lee alumni chapter in
Lynchburg and is generally regarded
as one of the most important honors an
alumni chapter can award.

Upon his retirement to the family
farm near Martinsburg, WV, he be-
came, for the next 15 years, an organist

  FY)’-

“ivariety;imultifonnity,” is one deﬁnition

National
. . Freshman Lire Goals
of   85%“ Be very well
75“ off ﬁnancially
Diversity: the hot as.-
ywatch-word for college
., .' ‘ _ ‘ ' ' 55- De 1
higher education inst1tu- ,,,;;f,,?,‘,’,f?,, .
tions all across thecoun-  45 philosophy owe
I 3i 

   
 

 
 
 
 

at Falling Waters Presbyterian Church
and teacher of the adult Sunday School
class.

Leybum’s father was a graduate of
W&L in 1887 and his great—grandfa-
ther once served as rector of the Board
of Trustees.

Leyburii received his B.A. and M.A.
degrees in economics from Duke Uni-
versity in 1920 and 1921, an M.A. in
l.‘(‘()T"‘lV7i(‘\‘ ‘lllti social institutions from
Princeton in 1922, and a Ph.D. in soci-
ology from Yale in 1927. He received
honorary degrees from both Duke and
Washington and Lee.

1 given for diversity in Webster's New Univer-
~ sal Unabridged Dictionary. Butte many people
at Washington and Lee the word signiﬁes a
"V . variety of things. A diverse student body may
 having students from different areas in
‘ the country, from families of varying afflu-

  
 
 
 

. y. 
.« 2 and .1‘Jzu\r¢v.PAi/Iiovic’ ’
tags‘ : -iu1m-,r:igz,jsza}_7"_,-

  

V , ence, of various ethnic backgrounds or reprcseinting~iaispeetmm  political
*  V  For Dean of Stt.itlents’Davii‘d, ‘on div ’
ofpointofview. - .    g

, y “We needtode,l*inc"wtiatdiv;=.rsi,t,yr_xie 
 said.“Dlv ‘ ‘ “V

1968 1972 1976 1980 1984 1988 1992

 

 iitnibcfzttttinstion I

 

\

¢FSil}tftlfi¢aiisail,, - 5‘ ’

 

 9 « ‘see 0 VERSlTY:*Page'4

 

PAGE 2

 

 

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Diversity?

Over the course of the next year, the Phi intends to tackle
various issues that have an impact on campus. In doing so we
hope to shed some light on the under currents that move the
W&L community.

The first of these issues involves the question of diversity
and it’s place at our university. For many, there is no
question that diversity has no place here. For others, it is not
so clear.

But, as this year’s freshmen class has been saying in
different ways, the status quo may not be all it’s cracked up
to be. Whether or not W&L needs to admit students from
varying socio-economic backgrounds, ethnic backgrounds,
political persuasions and genders is something administra-
tors cannot decide on their own. Simply admitting a diverse
class will not ensure a change if students and alumni do not
support it.

Most students will say that W&L like everything else
mustehange, and as many of our alumni will readily tell you,
we are sure, it has changed dramatically in the last 10 years.
But for many students the changes are not quick enough or
significant enough. The most important issue here is not
necessarily how fast we make the move towards a more
diverse W&L. The major issue is how we treat the people
that want the changes.

Tolerance of people who are different is essential. Just
because someone does not agree with your political views,
does not mean they are a leper to be shunned. On the contray,
we should take the opportunity to learn from anyone who has
adifferent perspective on life than we do. That does not mean
you have to agree them. Your opinion is your own and can
not be wrong, but neither can someone elses.

Surely no one is suggesting we abandon our most revered
traditions, but we can not blindly follow the status quo in the
name of tradition. The students at W&L represent some of
the best and brightest students in the country. As such, we
should challenge each other intellectually, both in and otit of
the classroom.

The one thing that students, whether they love it or hate it
at W&L, have said repeatedly is they did not know what
W&L was really like until they got here.

If any of you have looked at the admissions pamphlets
recently you know why. These pamphlets devote all of one
sentence to the greek system. Whether you are a champion
or an opponent of Greeks, you can not deny that the fraternity
and sorority systems play a tremendous role in the social side
ofW&L. It is true, there are alternatives ifyou are not Greek,
but admissions should make it clear that a vast majority of the
student’body'-eho"os"e‘s to‘ go greek.‘ A ' P A i ' 9

Student Recruitment and admissions can continue to
spout the virtues of W&L, but if they told the truth about all
aspects of W&L life everyone would be better off. For those
of you who are on Student Recruitment or admissions, don’t
freak out. We know your job is to attract students to W&L.
But is it necessary to omit vital information from the picture
painted of W&L?

Yes, we know we have strayed somewhat from the topic
of diversity. But it seems to us that all these things are
intertwined. The way you portray the university effects the
applicant pool. Obviously, the applicant pool effects the
final outcome of every new class. '

So, maybe if we gave the full ‘picture of W&L, insted of
little fragments, we would have both a more diverse and
content student‘ body.

——-F.K.. N.P.

 

- V
. F -. 2-5:‘
.5 as ~
~..\*t\
\

-,I, 3 To €uPPosg this IS
\:%' wag QM. M9kHi’

       

' 1

  
    

      

   

h)l46‘i‘ N? 9% H?
We (,g,.>lr 11> 0-61’
’1’i«tiéb-S at‘? The’
(,eo.mb?rg,/CW

  
    

  

  
 

 
 

   

-St 

     

%

The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1993 ,

  

  

WASHlNGTON—RolICallnews-
paper has been covering Capitol Hill
for 38 years, so by now it should be
unshockable. Nevertheless, it is re-
coiling, and the entire political class
should be, front the idea the Senate
Rules Committee is entertaining con-
cerning sexual ha-
rassment allega-

tions that were “just plain wrong.”
The Constitution empowers each
house tojudge the elections and quali-
fications of its members, and to punish
members, even with expulsion. Two
clear grounds for exclusion or expul-
sion from either house would be trea-
son, an
o ff e n s e

  
  

  

tions against against
Ore ion’s Republi- the safety
canéSenator Bob GE()R(}E WILL ' ofthe na-
Packwood,wholast _ t i o n
November was Washington POSI ( s o m e
elected to a fifth writers Group members
term. were ex-

The idea is that pelled for
Packwood should a l l e -
be unseated be- giance to

cause he lied to The Washirigton Post
and misled other media before the
November election. “This claim, ”
says Roll Call, “is so lame, so down-
right weird, that we can’t believe a
committee that has far better things to
do is wasting more than eight seconds
on it.” Hush, Roll Call. This could be
hilarious.

As Election Day neared, the Post,
pursuing rumors long circulating here
and in Oregon, was investigating alle-
gations of sexual misconduct—aggres-
sive and unwanted physical attention—
by Packwood toward various women
over a 20-year period. Shortly before
Election Day he denied to the Post that
he had behaved improperly. He alleg-
edly misled Oregon media about the
Post’s investigation and he allegedly
tried to discredit or intimidate some of
his accusers.

Nineteen days after the election,

which Packwood won by 78,000 votes -
' and with a 52 percent margin, the Post

published a lengthy documentation of
the allegations. Packwood subse-
quently apologized for unspecified ac-

the Confederacy); or bribery, an of-
fense against the integrity of govem-
ment.

The third ground would be vote
fraud, such as stuffing ballot boxes,
rigging voting, registering ineligible
voters—-physical acts that assault the
integrity of the democratic process.
But the people petitioning the Rules
Committee to unseat Packwood are
arguing that he was not “duly elected.”
They want to expand the idea of elec-
tion fraud beyond irregularities regard-
ing the castiiig or counting of votes, to
include the making of false statements
or the omission of information by a
candidate during a campaign that could
have affected voters’ decisions.

Well. It will be interesting to see
which senator wants to be the first to
cast that political stone at Packwood.

If the Senate vastly expands its ac-
tivities as judge of who has and who
has not been “dulyieleeted”- who has
conducted fully candid campaigns - it
had better brace itself. There will be a
flood of requests by losing candidates
for reviews of the veracity and com-

proposal ridiculous

pleteness of statements made by win-
ning candidates.

The anti-Packwood forces say they
want the Senate to affirm only a “nar-
row rule” that subjects a candidate to
exclusion from the Senate if when cam-
paigning he or she was deliberately
misleading about“personal,historical”
matters. But suppose, say Packwood’s
lawyers, a candidate falsely answers
“no” or “artfully dodges” an answer to
questions such as “Have you commit-
ted adultery?” or
“Have you ever
sought to avoid
service in the
armed forces of
the United States
in timeofwar'.7”or
“Have you ever
used illegal
drugs?” Does the
Senate fully want
to undertake such
supposedly “nar-
row” inquiries, to

They want to expand
the idea of election
fraud beyond irregulari-
ties regarding the cast-
ing or counting of votes, tal
to include the making of
false statements or the
omission of information

it
(‘pk
I
D
O
middle-class tax cut. Just after the

election, he reverses his position and
says that he will support a middle—cla;,s
tax increase.”

What senator wants to say that a
candidate has an affirmative obliga-
tion to disclose damaging “personal,
historical” infomiation about himself,
or an obligation to provide all informa-
tion about his intentions that are gw
mane to an informed decision by vot-
ers? The Rules Committee is clearly
entertaining an
idea that could
add to the public
stack of merri-
ment at the er,-
pense of the po-
litical class, espe-

crowd in the capi-
It is just seven
months since Big.

Clinton ended the
D e m o c r a t i c

g:‘;;'“i“°  by a candidate during a 
owed---; campaign that could losses in the last
Besides. if the have affected voters’ 5"‘ °'°““°“5)

Senate is to judge
who has and who
has not been prop-
erly elected by suf-
ficiently candid

decisions. Well. It will
be interesting to see
which senator wants to

with a campaig

promise to lighten
the middle-class
tax burden and
featuring many

campaigns, why he the first t0 cast that otherhregiliarkably
_.h 1d- be _ - - pens a eprom-
zefrtied iotnly  political stone at is“ Andmwme
candorconceming Packwood‘ De-m°C‘a‘lC'°°‘P
“personal, histori- trolled Senate ls

cal” details. Is not
candor about public policy intentions

at least as important? Packwood’s

attorneys mischievously suggest a“hy-
pothetical situation”of a candidate who
“in his campaign repeatedly and elo-
quently promises that he will support a

inviting contem-

- plation of this-
i thought: Perhaps the winner of an-

election forfeits his fight to the office
he won if he used tactical deceptions to
tiptoe past Election Day. ‘
rz Washington Post Writers Group, 1993

cially the new »

Ellie ﬂting-tum Iﬂltt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Justin McNaull

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Whltney Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editors and business

manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi of lice, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court

definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Republicans, Perot stall progress

WASHINGTON — Nothing is more irritating to
Americans than to read that Boris Yeltsin’s hardline
rivals have refused to recognize his impressive vic-
tory in last Sunday’s balloting. Don’t those Russians
get it? When you lose on election, you should shut up
and let the other fellow goveni for a while! lfyou’re
going to keep up the
endless kibitzing, if

other public works construction, by putting America’s
young people to work, he hoped to convert an uncer-
tain recovcry into a certain one.

As it turns out, Clinton’s prescription was dead on
the mark. Last Thursday. the Commerce Department
reported that in the first three months of 1993, the

economy grew at an anemic 1.8
percent. That means the nation’s

the gridlock is going
to stay locked, why

 
  

CHRISTOPHER

output in goods and services is
not expanding fast enough to cre-

boihcr holding c1cc- ate new jobs for those leaving
[ions in the first MATTHEWS collegethisJune,notconsistently
place‘? . .' enough to secure the jobs and
Sadly for Tflbune Medici livelihoods of those men and
America, the Services women already working.

 

rearguard commies
aren’t the only folks
to miss this point.
Back here in the USA, the forces defeated in last
November’s election remain equally driven by their
political greed, equally determined to destroy a presi-
dcncy the voters denied them, equally bent on a
scorched-earth policy that purchases them political
hope in the future at the price of American economic
recovery in the present.

if this seems a harsh indictment on the Republi-
cans and Ross Perot —— they were the ’92 losers, let’s
not forget —- consider the economic and political
record the past three months. Bill Clinton, the elected
president, arrived in the Oval Office committed to a
policy of strong economic growth. To achieve it, he
proposedashort-term program of job-creating “stimu-
lus.” By creating new employment in highway and

 

Unfortunately, the “Stimulus”
program Clinton so smartly pre-
scribed never got iiito the nation’s
economic bloodstream. While the S l 6.9 billion mea-
sure moved quickly through the House of Represen-
tatives, Clinton couldn’t get the Senate even to vote on
it. As a result, the 50(),00() jobs (5(),000 of them in
hard—hit California) the administration promised to
create remain uncrcated.

Why didn't the new president get his high—priority
program passed‘? Because it was defeated on its mer-
its? No. Because the minority leader of the Senate,
Bob Dole, wants to run for president someday; to
display his macho to the Republican right, he used
parliamentary tactics to prevent Clinton from even
getting a vote on his “stimulus” proposal.

More gridlock in the making. Last Sunday, as
Boris Yeltsin was proving the value of democracy in

LETTERS

0

Russia, Ross Perot launched a hugely-expensive
media campaign to further block it here in the
United States. Like Yeltsin’s rearguard opponents,
he ignored the results of last November’s elections
and acted as if they’d never been held.

What Perot has proposed is, in practical term;
just what the leader of the defeated Republican
Party accomplished two weeks ago: more gridlock.
What Dole and Co. did to Clinton’s short-terni
economic program, Perot now wants done to the
president’s loiig-terni fiscal plan. He wants it
dismembered. And what does Perot himselfoffer in
place ofClinton’s fiscal policy‘? Nothing. The my
elected Texan says he opposes Clinton’s tax pro-
gram but, given a chance on last Sunday’s “Meet the
Press,” refused numerous opportunities to cite a
single Clinton revenue measure that he thinks is
wrong. He paid $340,000 for a TV show that night
to call again for deficit reduction, but refused to use
a minute of his paid-for time to state a singlg
program he wants cut.

Politics makes strange bedfellows. lt could be
that Bob Dole, who ran for president twice and lost,
and Ross Perot, who ran once and lost, see the defeat
of Bill Clinton’s economic program as their two-
lane highway to the White House. Sadly for the
country, this two—teaming of Clinton could wel
destroy the new president’s economic program be-

fore it ever gets started. Sadly for the world, it sends 1

the message all the way to Moscow that the voters
can be totally ignored ifyou have the money, power
and political greed to do it.

aeTriburie Media Services, I993

Alumna questions W&L's good ole boy attitude -

To the Editor:

I spent four years at W&L struggling, sometimes
unsuccessfully, to keep my mouth shut.

Since graduation, l have tried to assure the people
l meet that W&L is not still caught in some Appala-
chian Stone Age. The Spring l993 edition of the
Alumni magazine served as a reminder to me that St.
Bob has probably rolled in his vault every time I told
some new acquaintance that my alma mater had
rounded a comer and joined us in the late 20th
century.

That a member of the Class of ’39 would write to
say, that he is tired of hearing about “queers” was no
surprise to me, nor, I am embarrassed to say, was it a
surprise to read that Mr. Rock, class of ’90, also has
no interest in reading about private lives unlike his
own.

I was, however, surprised that a publication so

readily available to perspective students would openly
admitaiid publish the fact that ifyou are not astraiglit,
white male, your place at W&L is one that must
continuallyjustify to yourselfand to alumni who fund
everything you do. The alumni seem to be doing
everything they can to counteract the rise in college
rankings that came to W&L with women —— the others
who have been given the opportunity to be date raped
on one ofthe most attractive campuses in the country.

Bob Moore, Class of '44, wonders if alumni giv-
ing has not fallen offsince eoeducation. If it had, Mr.
Moore, I would not wonder, because the alumni
publications l have received and the alumni functions
that l have attended have done nothing to inspire me
to give. They have, in fact, only sung the same song
I heard from 1988 to 1992 ——- white, straight men
belong at W&L, no one else.

I have given up. I am finally willing to admit that

I am ashamed ofW&L’s oppressive politics. I won ’t
be pretending to laugh with you good ole boys
anymore. My memories of W&L are of faculty and
staff who encouraged and taught me to be the best
that l can be on my own terms. They are of bright,
tolerant people who did not belong there any more
than I did. l survived W&L despite four alumni
weekends.

You close-niinded old men paid for me to receive
an excellent education from men and women who
taught me to think for myself and see beyond super-
ficialities. And, I am happy to say, one day you’ll be‘
dead, and W&L will be in the hands of people like
me.

Traci_Li go, ’92
(Traci Lazenby)

 

Ttiieﬁing-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

 

Sros’ SPACE
. By Tom Hespos

EveryThursday moniiiig at 1()a.m.,
Phi staff members come into the office
before class and perform last—minute
ta.‘ s before taking the Phi down to the
printer. It is never a fun task, as most
Phi-sters are up until 6 a.m. the night
before, laying down copy for that par-

’ ticular week’siiewspaper. Last week,

Spos’ mild—niaiiiiered alter-ego, the
journalistically focused News Editor
T Hespos, volunteered to help Ex-
ecutive Editor Fran Kefalas prepare
the paper for its voyage to the printer.

At 10 a.m., I pulled my car up to the
frontofthe University Center. Finding
no two-hour parking spots left, I de-
cided to use one of the spots in that
semicircular parking area that is la-
bc'R:d“CDP RecruiterOnly.” Big mis-
take.

I ran up to the Phi Office, greeted
Ms. Kefalas, who was already standing
there with X—Acto knife in hand, and

- started to gather the necessary materi-

al§for thejob at hand.

Not more than 30 seconds later, I
glanced out the window to see Security
Officer Tomlinson scrawling out a
ticket for my little yellow VW. [figure
that in order for Mr. Tomlinson to have
gotten there in such a short length of
time, he must have been hiding in the
bu§hes. I hollered out the window to
get his attention:

'79

“Don’t even think about it, buddy.
I said.

Tomlinson cast a glance up at me
and said that I had better move my car.

Okay, so everything’s cool. right? I
go downstairs, move the car, and
cverything’s peachy keen, right’?
Wrong. When I get downstairs,
Tomlinson is still writing out his $25
ticket for my violation of the Sacred
Book of the University Traffic Code.
He hands me the ticket and I give him
one of those pissed-off “thank you’s”
that you always feel compelled to say
to officers of the law when they hand
you citations.

I don’t mean to sound like a butt-
head, but couldn’t W&L Security cut
me a break? I mean, I did leave my
emergency lights flashing, thus indi-
cating I was only going to be there for
about five minutes. Heck, Career De-
velopmentdoesn’teven use those spots
during spring term because no compa-
nies come to campus to recruit during
the spring months. I’m sure they didn’t
mind that I borrowed the space for a
few minutes.

All aggravation about having this
week’s beer fund diminished by 20
bucks aside, let’s examine Washington
& Lec’s security force, starting with
the fact that they are not real police-
men. They can’t carry guns. Would
you feel comfortable calling on Baner
to protect you from “Big Floyd,” the
townsperson who likes to drink cases
of Pabst Blue Ribbon and has a propen-
sity toward violent crime?

And what about security’s priori-

PAGE 3

OPINION

W&L title fight: Spos vs. Security

ties‘? They seem to be preoccupied
with giving out parking tickets. As a
matter of fact, there are several hun-
dred things that W&L Security guards
should get done before they even think
about giving out a single ticket. Thus.
I offer the following:

Top Ten Things Security Should
Be Doing, Other Than Giving Out

collecting approximately ten grand in
lost deposits.

5) Two words... Live Drive

6) Taking classes in unarmed coni-
but.

7) Patrolliiig campus housing to pre-
vent btirglaries.

8,) Trying to catch one of those silly
Cadaver Society guys.

Tickets

9) Listening to some cool music.

Anything by Public
Enemy or lce—T
should suffice.

10) Reviewing
their annual budget
and removing any
funds appropriated
for donuts and cof-
fee.

Additionally, I
think Baner should
quitusinguniversity—
bought vehicles and
gas money to drive
drunken sorority girls
home from parties.
And as for
Tomlinson, I have but
one question: Does
my tuition pay for that
donut that you are
eaung?

I wish I had the
motivation to acquire

i )

Catching

‘hf ".‘,°I_"‘." Let’s examine Wash-
maniac in _ , _
the Law ington & Lee s security
L1bF'~"Y- force, starting with the

2) R°' f h 'h

ch,,,.g,,,g actt att ey are not
their hi- real policemen. Thev

t e c h a ‘
Suzuki p,_l_ can t carry guns.

trol vc- Would you feel comfort-
“ ‘ C I 0 ~*‘- able calling on Baner to
(Actually, t f “B.

S u ,_ U k, protee you rom ig

d i d n ’ 1 Floyd,” the townsperson
m a k c - -

[h C S C . who likes to drink cases
They sub- of Pabst Blue Ribbon
°°“‘”‘°“=d and has a propensity

out [0 . . ,
T0,,” 5 toward violent crime!
“AA” bat-

teries not

included)

3) Watching out for rapists and other
perverts. There’s been a lot of that
lately.

4) Returning all the confiscated kegs
to East Lex and Kelly’s Comer and

some of Security’s financial records
and statements. l’ni sure I’m not the
only one who would like to see busi-
ness office vouchers that reimburse
Kroger’s pastry department. Maybe
one of these days...

8

LETTERS

Sbar shamelessly plugs his book

"The Sbar Side Special

by Jon Sbar

. Since I am presently locked away in a padded cell for
people who express themselves by drooling and habitually
begin humor columns with prepositional phrases, I decided
to reread the stuff I wrote when I was a.Phi>staffer.~
heavily addicted to grilled ChCCS‘C‘S21l'l(I"\ll/ICI’lCS f romttheiCo-~
, Unfortunately, none of it made any sense. Fortunately,
my writing appeals to dope smokers who quickly forget
everything they read (if we are to believe those public
service television commercials). I wonder ifdope-smoking
writers suffer the same type ofmemory lapses. In any event,
I guess I should mention that I am presently locked away in
a padded cell for people who express themselves by drool-
ing and habitually begin humor columns with prepositional

rases.

Many readers unfamiliar with my rambling style might
wonder what I wrote about during college and whether I
ever dealt with any meaningful issues. Suffice it to say that
I regularly encouraged attractive females to mail me per-
fume-scented photographs of themselves in sexy lingerie.

No one ever sent pictures, but I never quit trying. Any
vﬂ)men still thinking about it should express mail their
photos to the post office box printed on the copyright page
of The Undergraduate Almanac. Speaking of my book, I‘
think it’s time to clear up some questions and concerns
surrounding its publication.

1. Why does the book cover feature an idiotic picture
of you sitting shirtless in a rowboat and what the hell
(ﬂies that have to do with attending college in Virginia?

I’ve come up with some pretty bad ideas in my day, but
even I opposed something so utterly stupid. My oyster-
brained publisher is totally responsible for the cover picture.
I wanted a photo of a sexy blonde woman in a Freiich-cut
graduation gown (I was even willing to comb area high
schools for the right look).

Q Ifmy publisher’s heart was set on a shirtless guy in a row
boat, she should have hired Fabio “Greaseball” Libido, the
long—haried European model on the cover of all the romance

Howison rates top 10 bad things at W&L

paperbacks. Every time I pick up my book, I imagine how

good it would feel to squee/.c the flesh covering my 3

publisher’s tender, white throat.

2. ,Ion, the narrator, comes across as a fun-loving,
testosterone-d riven party animal. .Ion, the Washington
and Lee student, was widely known as a lonely man with
few friends. Could you explain the discrepancy‘?

No one wants to read a book about a stressed-out
neurotic who studies a lot, writes humor for the campus
newspaper and has no respect for modern sanitation prac-
tices.

.» ..-33;.-,l~1raneI.;Iy,, ;'_[7he, Undergraduate: A,ln1anac..is.therau_n- ? I
chiest book~most~of us have ever.nead.(and weall love t .

Jackie Collins)~.«In fact, there’sa rumor that one ofyour
editors described Chapter 17 as a “rambling refuse of
literary masturbation.” What’s your problem?

It’s true my book is chock full ofgratuitous smut. In fact,
I encourage readers to stay far away from anyone who isn’t
offended by the book. A middle-aged woman I used to work
under at a local newspaper put things in perspective for me
after finishing the Almanac. The woman, who is exceed-
ingly prim and proper, warily approached my desk and
declared: “I’ve decided you’re horny and you like big tits.”

4. Have you ever considered writing a gladiator
movie?

No.

5. If we give money to the Annual Fund to help
“grow” the university, how can we be sure our cash will
be spent on athletics, the English Department or the Co-
op and not some Algerian artifact exhibit?

Who cares? I dig ditches for a living, and even I plan on
giving W&L some money the minute I get a checking
account. It’s not our place to question the judgment of the
administration. At least until they decide to annex a Sea
Shell Appreciation Centcroiito Lee Chapel.Theii we should
bum Washington Hall to the ground, tar and feather Presi-
dent Wilson, and sell his office furniture in an enormous
Colonnade Garage Sale.

6. Do you see a psycliiatrist?

Yes, but aren’t we straying from the subject of my book‘?

7. Speaking of your book, will this article include a
shameless plug to promote your Alumni Weekend book
signing on May 8 at 1 p.m. in the University Bookstore?
No, I would never use the Phi for personal gain or profit. Did

I mention the Co-op will give out free bagels during the
signing in honor of my Jewish heritage‘?

  

ic

 
 

Calyx

I The Calyx needs pictures of FD
aitd vacations ASAP. Put them in
the “Candids" envelope outside the
Calyx office no later than Wednes-
day, May I 2. Make sure your name
is on the back so that they may be
returned to you.

Internships

National Iiitcnisliips assists stu-
dents and recent graduates in Wash-
ington D.C. and across the country
in securing career-cnhaiiciiig paid
internships and summer jobs. The
National Internship series has now
expanded to twelve guides that span
the country. All guides are priced at
$7.95 plus S2shippingand handling
per order. For more information,
write to National Internships, PR
Department, 202() Pennsylvania Ave
NW, Suite 336, Washington, DC
20006.

Speech

Students, faculty, and adminis-
tration are cordially invited to hear
W&L Professor of English Emeri-
tus Sidney M. B. Coulling, III ’46,
deliver the keynote address at the
Alumni Reunion Assembly on
Thursday, May 6 at 8:30 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. His speech is titled “Re-
membrance of Things Past: W&L
1939-1988.”

Campus Crusade

Campus Crusade will meet May
12, in C-School room 227 at 6:45
p.m.Thevideo/lMan With0iitEqiial
will be shown.

 

General Notes Compiled by Sarah Wyatt

Horse Show

The Lexington Rotary Club is
sponsoring the 6th Annual Bonnie
Blue National Horse Show on May
12-15 at the Virginia Horse Center
with proceeds going to charity ac-
Iivilies.. The show begins at 7:00
p.ni. each night with an additional
show on Saturday at 9:0() a.m. Ad-
mission is S4.00 per pcrs()it per day
and free for children under I0. For

1'3‘)

more information, call 463-.>-.37.

Debate

The Graham-Lee—Washington
Literary Society will host its second
annual Dinner/Debate on May 19.
The resolution poses the question,
“Does America have the leadership
to successfully enter and remain
powerful in the post- Cold War era?”
The topic will be debated by two
teams of two members each, one
student and one faculty member.
Tickets go on sale nextweek and the
audience will be limited to 100
people.

FOC

The Freshman Orientation Com-
mittee will meet tonight at 6 p.m. in
the Arlington Women’s Center. All
committee members must attend.

Big Siblings

Upperclassmen will be receiv-
ing Adopt—A-Freshman applica-
tions in the mail soon. Freshmen
will get applications delivered to
their rooms.

Fiji president recalls tragedy

imiiie.i:«iii«»:r.s   :1; ,
Spring term is _a time,for'relaxation
at W&L, but this year it should also be
a time of remembrance. As the Sigma
Chi, Delta Tau Delta and Sigma Phi
Epsilon houses near completion, so
does the Fraternity Renaissance Pro-
gram. There has been much acclaim
for the commitment the university has
made to the fratemity system and rightly
so.
But as I have learned, from talking
to many, many students, little is known
about how the Fraternity Renaissance
actually began. I think now is the per-
fect time to tell the story because it
began during spring break, nine years
ago.

Spring break of ’84 was like all
other spring breaks at W&L. Most of
the students left for vacation, but as per
usual, the varsity baseball team re-
mained in Lexington to play several
games. Among them was a young
sophomore named Thomas J. Fellin,
’86.

Fellin was what many would con-
sider a model W&L man. He was a
member of the varsity baseball team, a
sophomore member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, and carried a GPA of over 3.5.
But the one thing that was really sur-
prising about Fellin was that he was 21
Fiji. This is surprising because at the

\ .

J,-.

lime, Ph‘i;Qi3II‘m¢tDS’tIIil Wll$tIOS.$ than  :5
model fratemity, to be polite. In fact,-"..,
. Fiji had an “Animal House” reputa-

tion, and was in danger of losing its
charter. This was not the fraternity in
which one would expccta model W&L
man to be a member. However, the
House Corporation decided to “clean
house” in an effort to save the chapter.
Many brothers were kicked out of the
chapter and Fellin, along with class-
mate Alex Castle ’86, were appointed
co-presidents and handed the task of
getting Fiji back on its feet as a strong
fraternity.

During spring break of ’84, Fcllin
was staying in the Phi Garnm house,
and one other brother who was also a
baseball player, was staying in what is
now the house mother’s cottage. On
the night of April II, 1984, while the
two men were sleeping, a fire was set in
the chapter house.

The fire spread and completely gut-
ted the entire house. All three lloors of
the building collapsed into the base-
ment, the only portions of the house
itself that remained standing were the
front wall on Preston St., and portions
of the side walls on Jackson Ave. Tom
Fellin died in that fire. His body was
found about six feetfrom the side door.
He almost made it out.

Because Fiji was in danger of losing

iis:c_h.étr1er idhe to. its track. ‘record ' bl’
rowdy arid UIl,gG3lAjI-(SlJl2ifl,IryrI)CIlaVIOI', it
would have been easy to just let it fade
away after theifire. But several Phi
Ganini alumni, led by Edward L.
Bishop, ’68, rallied to save the chapter.
They organized the insurance money
and raised more funds from Fiji alumni
to build the house that now stands at
112 W. Preston St.

At the time the university showed
no interest in spending asingle .limc on
the fraternity houses, especially Fiji.
But Ed Bishop followed through, and
with the successful completion and
upkeep of the house in its first years,
the Fijis proved to the university coni-
munity that the renaissance could work.
Had it not been for the tragic death ofa
fellow student, or the overwhelming
commitment of a group ofalumni, the
fraternity renaissance may never have
come about.

So this spring, as we relax and enjoy
Washington term at Goshen, on the
Colonnade, and in the beautiful new
fratemity houses, let us not forget the
great debt we owe to the alumni that
proved it could work, and a fellow
student whose death sadly set the wheels
in motion.

Moke Wolfe, ’94
President, Phi Gamma Delta

Student Body Notice

MY VIEW
By David Howison

. During my first year at Washington and Lee
in 1990, I published a Top Ten List of my most
memorable first impressions of W&L. It was a
“good” list and included the weather in Lexing-
ton, Charles FIood’s book Lee: The Last Years,
Fancy Dress, and W&L’s student leaders. Now,
two years later I’ve decided to provoke a little
c ntroversy (a reporter from the Phi complained
to me recently that there aren’t any student
issues to write about) and publish a Top Ten
List ofthe “bad” things at Washington and Lee.
For better or worse, here it is:

l.Electronic Technology: E-mail,answer-
ifg machines, FAX, beepers, cellular phones,
voice mail, interactive TV, data access sys-
tems, INTERN ET. Ifthese things are supposed
to make our lives easier, whi is everything so
complicated? I miss the old library card catalog
with the stubby pencils and scraps of paper.
Less is more.

D

2. Country Pumpkin Frozen Yogurt: I
love frozen yogurt but where do these strange
flavors come from? Blueberry Fluf f ‘.7 New York
cheesecake? What’s next? Alpine asparagus‘?
My advice to the Co-op and the Dining Hall is
stick with the basics. Vanilla and peanut butter.

O

3. Posters on the Colonnade: The Colon-
nade is a national historic landmark. It should
look like it did in 1850 with Old George ga/.ing
out over the Chapel, not with day—glow llicrs
taped all over the white columns. If Ilicrs are up
there, I’ll take them
down.

teams to academic honors, our women students
are first-class. Why then did not one women run
for a “Big Four” position this year‘? I know it’s
not easy. I know there is still block voting and
men outnumber the women. But there are sim-
ply too many strong
women leaders at

4. Troubadour film
projectors: I helped to
coordinate the renova-
tion of the Troubadour
intoanice,little cinema.
The grand opening in
October was a delight-
ful affair but right after
that, the Troubadour was
hitby Murphy’s Law: If
it can go wrong, it will
go wrong. President
Wilson referred to the
Troubadour as
“Howison’s Folly."
Since then, a lot of
people have worked
hard on this problem and l ./

 

Washington and Lee
not to have a few of
them run for the “Big
Four.”

6. Sickness: Wash-
ington and Lee has an
outstanding Student
Health Center. The
doctors and nurses are
professional, compas-
sionate, and respected
by students. Does that
explain why over
10,000 student visits
are recorded each aca-
demic year iii the
Health Center?
10,000! Why are stu-

progress has been made. /" /“ 4- 4-‘ c dents sick so much‘?
Is it safe to go to a movie
again? 7. The Front
Lawn: After the
5, No Women “Big Four” Candidates; drought of a few years ago, the Front Lawn
W&L women leaders dominate ODK and died. If it’s raining in the spring and after a

Who’s Who. From the sororities to the athletic

mowing, the lawn looks OK, but close inspec-

tion reveals that the green is just a mulch of
twisted weeds. I understand that B&G will be
restoring the Front Lawn this summer. That’s
good news. The lawn should reflect the gran-
deur of the C.oloiiiiade. When the new lawn is
completed, I will move it from my “bad" list to
my “good” list.

8. Rush Rules: Robert E. Lee had one rule:
“Act like a gentleman.” Fraternity rush has I00
rules. Why is this‘?

It is misguided, I think, to attempt to control
behavior by more rules and bigger fines for
breaking the rules. Some hourses actually build
fines into their rush budget, in the same way
they budget for a band. General Lee would not
be amused.

9. Wednesday Night Parties: I know. l’ni
in big trouble with thisoiie. Criticixing Wednes-
day night partics is like critici’/.ing Traveller.
I’m all for having a good time, letting off steam
and taking a break from studying. But every
Wednesday’?

10. The Weather in Upstate New York:
Although this has nothing to do with Washing-
ton Lllltl Lee, I put it on my list because I spent
21 years suffering through God-awful weather
in New York, and I need to be reminded now
and then just how bad it was! (Unfortunatley,
the weather in Lexington this March wasn’t
much better).

Last week the Phi
informed the
campus of the
sexual assaults at
the University of
Virginia at
Charlottesville
and the police
warning to area
campuses.
Composites and
complete
descriptions of the
suspects are

available from
W&L Security.

 

 

W&L speculates about diversity question‘

Diversity, from page 1

must look at it in a broad way,” he said.

Dean of Freshman and Residence Life Deri-
nis Manning agrees that a definition of diver-
sity is important before one can discuss the
issue.

Howison and Manning said someone look-
ing at W&L from a geographic point of view
would say W&L is one of the most diverse
campuses in the country. But, Howison said,
many people today deﬁne diversity as involv-
ing political ideologies and ethnic backgrounds.

‘‘In a lot of ways we have wonderful diver-
sity. We are not as diverse in the modern sense
of the word.”

Howison said the issue of diversity is one
that concerns all college campuses. The Ameri-
can Council on Education conducts a national
survey of college freshmen demographics and
attitudes.The study is based on the responses of
213,630 students at 404 colleges and universi-
ties nation—wide.

One way for universities to tackle the issue
of diversity is through curriculum.

Manning said the primary mission of W&L
is and should continue to be academic excel-
lence.

“I don’t think academic excellence should
be compromised to carry out an agenda,” Man-
ning said. “I think we try as best as we can to
balance that primary mission goal of the insti-
tution with a quest to attract as many different
students as we can.”

However, Associate Dean of Students for
Minority and lnteniational Affairs Anecc
McCloud said W&L’s student body is not as
diverse as student bodies at other universities,
including ones of comparable size.

“Other schools have a higher percentage of
ethnic minorities,” McCloud said.

For some students the lack of diversity has
become unbearable.

Freshman Peter Agelasto said he is transfer-
ring to Colby College in Waterville, Maine
because ofthe lackofdiverse opinions at W&L.

“The thing that really bothers me is the way
people who are different are treated,” Agelasto
said. “I see a lot of people fitting into that old
boy mold. lt’s not that they want to. lt’s that
they get sucked into it.”

Agelasto’s father graduated from W&L in
1962. He said he grew up visiting W&L fre-
quently.

“I grew up in a W&L house,” Agelasto said.
“That familiarity just back fired.”

All of his experiences with W&L did not
prepare him for attending school here, Agelasto
said. He said he never knew so many students
went greek here. Agelasto rushed in the fall and
depledged in January.

Agelasto said his decision to transfer does
not stem from a dislike for W&L.

“Ilove W&Lbut it’s notgiving me thatextra
pan of my college experience,” Agelasto said.

Another freshman cannot understand why
this year’s class is so different from the typical
W&L student.

‘Talking to some of the upperclassmen, it
seems that we’re going against the grain,” Shan-

n o n

Income of W&L parents vs. parents of students in
four-year private institutions

Nave
said. “It
j u st

Under 19,999

s e e m s
we’rean

20,000 to 39,999 

unusual
bunch. l
d o n ’ 1

40,000 to 74,999

75,000 to 99,999

 

k n o w
 w h )’
we’reso
differ-
entfrom

100,000 to 149,999

 

all the
other
classes
or why

I W&L

i

150,000 to 19,999

Over 200,000

  

4yr. Private I h i 5

didn’t

   

. l ' '
0% 5% 1 0%

iilviri

15% 20% 25% 30% 35%

happen
with
them

PC 97
1.00.

E. Nelson St., Lexington

.‘-'1.-*5.»

 

« Hardware, Paint and Related Items 

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 ‘pm.

5“! m‘
I

Su_n_. 1_-5 p.m.
463-2186

   
 

  
  

Barn Apartment for Rent-
For two people in _a private facility.
Stalls, individual turnout, use of -a ring,
jumps and trails. Price negotiable.
Call Nick at 992-1069

Although Nave’s primary reason for trans-
ferring to Case Western Reserve in Cleveland,
Ohio is her major, the lack of social options at
W&L played a part in her decision.

“Socially this is a great party school and it’s
a lot of fun,” she said. “But it’s not for everyone
especially if you’re not into greek life.”

For Agelasto the question of diversity at
W&L is not cut and dry, rather it goes beyond
ethnic minority ratios and fratemities.

“l don’t think W&L is very diverse, but I
don’t think it has anything to do with minority
ratios,” Agelasto said.

McCloud, who agrees with Agelasto, said
diversity applies to racial, ethnic, gender reli-
gious, sexual preference and socio—economic
groups.

Catcgorizing by groups is dangerous, she
said.

“lt’s wrong to assume that every member is
the same as every other member of a group,”
McCloud said. “You will have diversity within
a group.”

According to Associate Director of Admis-
sions Dan Murphy, the admissions policy has
not changed in the last several years. Admis-
sions is still using the same criteria they always
have, Assistant Director of Admissions Nancy
Hickam said. Academic achievement is the
most important qualification an applicant can
have, she said.

The role admissions can play in diversifying
the university is narrow, according to Hickarn.

“You can’t say we’re going for a diverse
applicant pool,” Hickam said. “We can’t con-
trol who applies. We always make an effort to
attract more minorities.”

Hickam, a 1990 graduate, began working as
an admission counselor that July. Co-education
has caused the greatest changes at W&L since
she was a freshman, I-Iickam said.

“When you have a single-sex school and go
co-ed you attract a different type of student,”
Hickam said. “A number of the attitudes have
changed. [Co-education has] done a lot for the
school.”

Many have claimed that admissions was
attempting to recreate the W&L experience by
changing the make—up of this year’s freshmen
class. Associate Dean of Students Anne C.
Schroer-Larnont, however, attributes the dif-
ference to changing national values.

“The admission office didn’t go out looking
for a diverse group of students they could bring
to W&L to change things. In fact, we‘re still
recruiting the same pool of students,” she said.
“This is a national trend which indicates a
change in student values.”

In the eight years that Schroer-Lamont has
been at W&L,the university has undergone a

9wEri=uit,..cHAHrEins,..    

Vacation Sailing Adventures

(305) 949-2380 ,
Let Frank and Anne Show you the Bahamas. We’ll take
you sailing, sight-seeing, snorkeling, and more. Come
vacation with us in the Bahamas.

Family Tours . . . Groups of Friends . . . Educational Trips

 

   

The Ring-tum Phl, May 6, 1993 ’

considerable trans-
formation. Neverthe-
lcss, after the first
class of women,
change appeared to
come to a standstill.

100%

“When the first 90:/0
class of women came 80 /°
in they we re prepared 7°°/°
to be part of the 50% lb
change. The six 50%
classes after them 40%
thought the change 30% I W8-L
wasdonc. ltwaslrus— 20% D 4y,,pm,ate
tratirig for the few
women who were try- ‘°°/°
ing to provide leader- 0% 9
ship for change,” she  § .5 8 E

. . ~-- '0 .9 --
said. “ln the six § 3 5 as 3
classes in between, 3 -2: § 5
the women tried to as-   
similate. They would 5 < ‘‘

try to fit in and per— '
form and behave like

Class of 1996 Racial Background vs Fresh-
men at four-year private institutions

 

P9

the men.”

Schroer-Lamont views this year’s freshmen
class as harkenin g back to the role of those first
women on campus.

“This year’s freshmen came on board and
they began to question what was going on here.
They were doing a level of independent think-
ing that was refreshing," said Schroer-Larnont.
“The freshmen that I see are still really ques-
tioning things spring term.”

Some members of the W&L community
fear rapid change will cause a loss of traditions.
Others believe change is the only path for the
university to take.

“A lot of people on campus, and who are
affiliated to Washington and Lee, tend to hold
on to tradition. I don’t think that is bad,”
McCloud said. “Tradition has it’s place. Some
of the things that are held on to have been
misperceived and tncrclore have been perpetu-
ated as to that misperception.”

When she was offered her current job seven
years ago, McCloud said, she had to evaluate
how she would feel as an African—American
woman, who grew up in the South, working at
W&L. She said she researched the founding of
W&L and the ideologies behind it.

“General Lee was a person who was able to
change with the times,” McCloud said. “When
it was his time to serve the South, he did so to
the bestofhis ability. When the war was over he
saw it was time for the nation to heal. lt’s all you
can ask ofa person ——that they change with the
times.”

Even proponents of tradition think change is
is possible without sacrificing principles.

   
   
 
  

-~_....._'s_.-._——2...

    
   

I

“[W&L has a] much stronger commitment
to tradition and stronger resistance to change,”
Howison said. “Adherence to tradition is a
positive thing. But as the world changes you
have to realize there are things you can change
without compromising our values.” '

McCloud said misperceptions about Lee
could be why the W&L community appears
resistant to change.

“Some of the credit or discredit, whichever
way you want to say it, that has been attributed
to Gen. Lee for the perpetuation of a homoge-
neous campus is perhaps unfair to him, andds
perhaps due to what people have read into his
position as one of the founders [of W&L],”
McCloud said.

Second—Year Law student Bob Tompkins

said W&L is only homogeneous on the surface.
“Someone who is willing to look deeper will

find diverse elements,” Tompkins said. “ltgs
subtler here.”

Tompkins was a member of the first under-
graduate co-ed class. He said he thinks W&L
has always had diverse elements.

James Rambeau, Class of ‘9l and ’94L,
thinks W&L began undergoing a fundamental
transformation two years ago. .

“Although this year‘s freshmen class has
made an impact. lt‘s really the Class of ‘94 that
was a stark contrast to typical traditional W&L
students,” he said.

During his undergraduate years, Rambeau
said he “could never have envisioned someone
initiating an ACLU or starting an AIDS Educa-
tion project” but both of those have occurrdd

u—....._

,For Rentizti I 
In Lexington, available June 15
4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home,

1 B.R. duplex apt. Call Mike
Flint at Whiteside Realty 463-1187 .

  

 

 

 
   

Three months till summer; do you have a job?
Resumes - Cover Letters - Flyers - Copies - Binding
Come see us -- we’ll make you look good!

‘I’

 

PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

FAX: 463 - 6918
125 w..Ni-1.soN STREEI‘ - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROMTHEPOST OFFICE

at 464-1 142

For Sale -.
1990 Mustang Convertable LX 5.0
Racing Green, White top & Leather,
All Options, 14,000 miles, always
garaged. As new.

9 a.m. — 5 p.m. daily

 

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for interested and enthusiastic
people to fill positions as Production Manager, Copy
Editors, Photographers, Reporters, and Humor Columnists.

See the World  Join the Phi

Call Fran at the office - 463-8581

or at home

- 464-3757

’:'D'.‘V/.‘N'W3§€4'¢¢<'X0§5M7."D'P'55O5$?.'*5' %WFR4ﬁPéﬁXb% &W@%Z“5ﬂ$#DM$)M¢§b

'-I ,¢‘¢‘((9 

 

 

‘ - - ‘-‘W-‘-‘~:-‘ -.='°'-‘3:=:>'. .5.-.-'¥'>"-:°<~' a»e.vx~:-Nata-:-zen-' ~'-swc-:-.-t.\:- -.-:+.¢t»:<-:~i:4<~"‘°‘uc-a:¢m«oc- 
  .-i=3r-:-:-:r-:<r«rz.<'z\'~:='-:s'-:-:t='.-:r.vr-:.'m-:-:-:-1-:-:2::-:«ra-rrzzccz-:-:-:z¢:-3-ta:-:mz~z-:v-'2=:az ..:-.«.u_e,_
‘ Q

 

heﬁing-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

' Unhappy students examine traditional attitudes

W&L Freshmen Political Leanings
1991

Conservative

Average

Conservative

\ / The Ring-tumPlti;;';..=.;  
93 welcomes returning alumni

W&L Students,

Ideal Barber Shop ,0

'22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank   .
mmm%.mx'emwtx'&%.~»mw-.u \*&& ~:-.ewmtu\\;

S E
Avatlables

\\.

§Stude f Apartments
_ 4 3-1521

"'\Yx‘*h"\ ‘\\‘\\‘\\‘\‘§\"\\\‘\\\\‘£\\\\\\

' .I?'dr.’/2'I.’I.'/

Dear Abby,
I had two brothers. One of them went to
Hampden-Sydney College and the other went to the
0 electric chair. Now I have met a nice girl and we plan
to be married. My problem is should I tell her about my
brother who went to Hampden-Sydney?

We all have our problems, but CRAFTS PLUS
can solve yours when it Comes to Crafts and
‘ hobbies.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES, & CRAFT SUPPLIES
31 South Main Street, Lexington 463-3355

we we come you to our Bar er hop or;
your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers. A 

. /

DO You ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

F0Baek vard skeet is fun. but compared to Snorting Clavs
i1’5 bggring
At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
it to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-I800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

since he graduated.

Agelasto said controversial groups like the
ACLU would help stimulate student opinions

‘‘I’m a proponent of controversy. There’s so
much of that same old same old [at W&L],”
Agelasto said. ”Academically it’s so unhealthy.”

Agelasto said student apathy is one cause for
what he believes is a lack of diverse opinions.

“It's horrible how uninterested students are
in something that could lead to a fire,” he said.

Tompkins said he sometimes gets frustrated
with student apathy, but he does not think
extremist groups on campus are the answer to
student apathy or diversity.

‘‘I don’t know that the only way to obtain
diversity is to allow extremist and one—sided
groups that pop up," Tompkins said.

However, Agelasto said his desire to see
change at W&L is not enough to make him
finish his college education here.

“I had an attack of selfishness,” Agelasto
said.“You can stay and try to change things, but
you need an army. 1 don’t think the revolution
is here yet.”

Despite the attempts that may have been
made in an effort to expose the W&L commu-
nity to differing viewpoints, Rambeau thinks
many students remain uninterested and defen-
sive about changes.

“Outside of the classroom, free thought is
inhibited. Free discussion just doesn‘t happen
here,”Rambeau said.

Rambeau, like Schroer-Lamont, feels this .

year’s freshmen class has been willing to ques-
tion many of the things that other classes had
simply taken at face value.

“They’re thinking about differentthings and
they’re rethinking [things such as] the whole

~ fratemity thing as evidenced in the 20 or so who

depledged,” he said. “That never would have
happened my year.”

Although W&L provided him with a strong
academic grounding, Rambeau nevertheless
felt socially stifled in an environment where
there was “too much pressure too conform. One
of the prevailing viewpoints is to survive so-
cially you need to belong to a fraternity.”

Rambeau though does not think true diver-
sity will come to W&L anytime soon. “ W&L
isn‘t ready for this change. The alumni have not
advocated [for diversity] and they are not com-
mitted to making this change.”

“We don‘t want to be too aggressive in
[getting] minorities here because of certain
pressures from alumni and certain students on
campus, ” Rambeau said. “They‘re quite eon-
tentto bring in 15-20 blacks, 5 asians, 1 chicano,
hispanic or native american a year.”

“It‘s still a lily-white institution; 95% ofthis

campus is white. Whether that is good or had,
W&L needs to evaluate.”

Any changes occurring at W&L will be
slow. i

Manning said W&L is not rellective of na-
tional diversity, but he said the process of
diversifying the university will be slow.

‘‘It would be nice, it would be ideal, if we
could wave a magic wand and attract minority
students or other kinds of diverse students,”
Manning said. “But it doesn’t just happen that
way. ”

“lt’s an evolutionary process,” Manning said.
“We may be a little earlier in this evolutionary
cycle than other schools.”

Any changes made at W&L should take into
consideration the entire W&L community.

“As small as Washington and Lee is, it is a
very complex institution in that it consists not
justof students, faculty and administrators who
are located on the campus, but also the Board of
Trustees, Alumni and friends of the
university,” McCloud said.

“In considering all of these different groups
we have to realize we can't go about making
changes without taking them into consider-
ation.”

But, many believe the process of change
must continue.

McCloud and Rambeau both said diversi-
fying the campus and attracting students who
are different is something the university must
work on.

“The university has to work on its outward

experience and tell people that other types of
viewpoints are tolerated here,” Rambeau said.
“The professors do a stellar job making that
obvious. ()utside of the classroom, it‘s a prob-
lem seeped in tradition.”

“l really don’t know how [we] can say
“you‘re welcome here” to those who are not the
traditional W&L student,” Rambeau said.

Agelasto’s transferring is a signal Rambeau
said cannot be ignored. ,

“When you see the Freshmen E.C. Rep
leaving, and his dad is an alum who serves on
the Board of Trustees, there is obviously a
serious problem with the way things are done
on this campus,” Rambeau said.

McCloud said the time for changes at W&L
is approaching. ’

“Washington and Lee can not remain the
same indefinitely,” McCloud said. “By the be-
ginning of the next century at least one-third of
college-age population will consist of African-
Americans, Hispanics, Asian-Americans,
American Indians etc.”

Rambeau said that many opponents of di-
versity argue that “W&L should remain unique
to itself.” '

“They think attracting different kinds of
students will lower the academic standards and
that’s just not accurate. In the long run, [such a]
change will be good for W&L.”

Howison said all the debate about diversity
is healthy for the university.

‘‘It would be a boring world and a boring
college if we all agreed with one another.”

Raise taxes to
reduce delicit
Abortion should be
legal

Marijuana should be
legal

Prohibit homosexual
relations

Employers can
require drug tests
National health

care plan needed
racial

no longer a problem
individual can

to change society
wealthy should pay
more taxes

Prohibit

sexist speech

W &;L Freshmen Opinions on National Issues vs Freshmen at four-year
Private Institutions

Somewhat or strongly agree with . . .

0% 10% 20°/. 30°/. 40°/. 50°/. 50% 70°/. 80% 90%

I W&L Males

Q W&L Females

I 4 yr. Priv. Males
4yr. Priv. Females

Four Bedroom house for w.r;et;tt. . ,

for ‘riext ‘setio61‘y”éaf 

To the Women’s L T - C

Back to Back!
Congrats!

Best of Luck to Lisa, Lisa, Ginny, and Paige
- the Ripkens

l-v.--t

IIIIIIIIIIIIII

«tel W” 

Please join us for a

[ BOOKSIGN~1l§t€}.=.PARTY

at the University Bookstore
on Saturday, May 8th

A whole group of distinguished
W&L authors will be with us . . .
12 to 12:45 p.m.

. Charles Com ‘58
Distant Islands: Travels Across Indonesia

Susan Tifft and Alex Jones ‘68
The Patriarch: The Rise and Fall of the
Bingham Dynasty

1 to 2:30 p.m.
Ted Blain ‘74

and

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

11 W. Nelson Street Robby Jones

E[l'_C

Welcome AI

Love C ools and Pas.s‘ion Play
and

Jon Sbar ‘9l

The Undergraduate Almanac:
A Law Life Guide to Higher Education

115 ,
mn1.'

Suﬁsand

Alumni Special

20% OFF

Sportcoats

Suits and Coats by Haspel, Oritsky, & Bowdon

Sero Shirts

Shoes by Bass, Walkover, & Topsider

Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek, & Duckhead
Duckhead Shorts and Pants

Ray-Ban Sunglasses

W&L Belts, Ties, Keychains, Dog Collars
Red Wing Boots

Embassy Boxers

W&L Blazer Buttons

Since 1963
(703) 463-5383
9- 5:30 Monday- Saturday
10- 3 Sunday May 9th

Mastereard

r: r 1

Student Charge

nﬂﬂcﬂri-lt3EE-JEI'JﬂrJrJrJr1i'JrJtJr-IrJrJrJr-lrJr«!rJc-lrJrJr‘!

 

W&L authors
return for
book signing

FROM STA]-‘l~‘ RliP()R’l‘S

The University Bookstore will be
sponsoring a book signing party Sat-
urday, May 8 welcoming four Wash-
ington and Lee authors for Alumni
Weekend.

Charles Corn ’58, author of Dis-
tant lslands: Travels /lcross Indone-
sia and Susan Tifft and Alex Jones
’68, authors of The Patriarch.‘ The
Rise and F all of the Bingham Dynasty
will be signing copies of their books
trom 12 to 12:45 pm.

Ted Blain ’74,author of Love Cools
and Passion Play, and Jon Sbar ’91,
author of The Undergraduate Alma-
nac: /1 Law Life Guide to Higher
Education will sign copies of their
books from 1 to 2:30 p.m.

Com, who became an editor and
journalist after leaving W&L, wrote
about his journey through the Malay
Archipelago, a chain of islands that
lie between Australia and Southeast
Asia. Traveling through Indonesia
by train, bus, and on foot, Corn en-
countered a variety of people ranging
from the transvestites of Jakarta to
Sumatran medicine men, whom he
describes in his book.

Tiff t and J ones won aPulitzer Prize
for their coverage of the Bingham
family of Louisiana, who were to
American journalism what the
Kennedys were to American politics.
The book is based on years of re-
search and interviews with members
of the Bingham family.

Blain, currently the chairman of
the English department at Woodberry
Forest School in Virginia, wrote two
books about murder and mystery at
the Montpelier School for Boys.

Sbar, currently on a promotional
tour from Florida to Alaska, satirizes
college life in his book based on his
experiences at W&L.

There will be a second book sign-
ing party on Monday, May 10 from 2
to 3 p.ni. to welcome William Styron,
author ofSophie’s Choice, and Willie
Morris, author of North Toward Home.
Styron and Morris will also read from
their work in Lee Chapel on Monday
at 7:30 p.m.

F

Lexingt

FEATURES

0
The Fling-tum Phi, May 6, 1993 .

Ex-humor columnist
embarks on Cirrhosis Tour

By ll‘)/\.\'.\'l~l BRIGGS
Phi Features Editor

J()11Sbﬂr, humor columnist, con-
struction worker, and graduate of
Washington and Lee, returns this
weekend to sign copies of his book
The Undergraduate /llmanac.‘ /1 Law
Life Guide to Higher Education in the
W&L bookstore and join in the
Alumni Weekend festivities.

Sbar’s book is a ‘humorous de-
scription of the college experience,
which is based on his years as a stu-
dent at W&L.

While Sbar was at W&L he was a
popular humor columnist for The
Ring-tum Phi.

Since the publication of his book
Sbar has been touring Florida pro-
moting it, speaking at high schools
and appearing at college bookstores.

“lliketocallmytourtheCirrhosis

 
  
 
 
  
 

 

Tour,” Sbar said. “l’ve made a lot of
side trips along the way to Mardi Gras,
Fancy Dress, and basically spent the
whole time drunk.”

Sbar said, “I was supposed to go up
to the University of Alaska for some

weird festival, but I have this fear of

ﬂying,” Sbar said. “It was the middle
of winter, and l was going to drive, but
the reaction I got at Triple A was, ‘Are
you cra'/.y‘.7’” '

Sbar is planning a trip out to the
West Coast and Alaska in the coming
year.

He has also been occupying his time
by writing for community newspapers
in his home state of Florida and work-
ing for a construction company.

Sbar said, “There’s not that many
places to write humor. I followed a
circus around fora local newspaper for
awhile.”

He said that he could probably write
a construction worker’s almanac from
his experiences.
He called con-

truction workers
. “an interesting
_ . breed ofpeople.”

“The funny
., thing is that they
E’ 5 look down on
». me,” he said.

Sbar said that
he is currently

orking on a de-
tective novel, and
discussed the
possibility of
writing a sequel
to his book, “a
ort of Post-
Graduate Alma-
nac” he said.

“I set myself
up for a sequel at
the end of the
book. The narra-
tor is left in a
— coma after being
stabbed by the
love of his life.”

Sbar said that

by saying, “My true career goal is to
avoid anytype ofhoiiesteniploynient.”

The reactions he has gotten to the
first book have been mostly positive,
he said.

“High school students really enjoy
it, and anyone who has been to college
likes it because that’s exactly how col-
lege is.”

Sbar said, “Some people are dis-
turbed by how explicit the book is.”

“I write the real story. My philoso-
phy is that you can’t write for anyone.
My mother was a little embarassed, but
if I had it to do over again, l’d write it
the same way,”he said.

Sbar described his book as very
accessible, and added, “lt’s nice to see
people reading who wouldn’t other-
wise. l’ve had people tell me my book
was the first book they’ve read cover to
cover besides Dr. Seuss.”

Sbar said that he was excited about
returning to W&L for his booksigning.
He said that his plans for Alumni Week-
end include a Saturday morning alumni
water polo game, and a return visit to
his fraternity, Pi Kappa Alpha.

He called Alumni Weekend “an-
other excuse to wear a coat and tie, not
that anyone at W&L needs an excuse to
wear a coat and tie. So I’ll be there in
a coat and tie.”

“Actually, I'm going to streak
around campus naked and get stinking
drunk at my booksigning,” Sbar
laughed.

Sbar added that he was very grateful
to the Bookstore for helping him pro-
mote his book.

“The ladies at the Bookstore have
been really good about promoting my
books, and l appreciate that,” he said.

‘‘I promise the Washington and Lee
community that 1 will always put the
fact that I graduated from W&L on my
bookjackets, unlike some people whose
names I won’t meiition...Toni Wolfe.
l’m very proud of my association with
W&L,” Sbar said, “and 1 would never
only put that I went to Yale for gradu-
ate school likeTom Wolfe does, mainly
because I couldn’t get into Yale.”

Women’s clothing.

Everyday - GUARANTEED! We receive

order houses. New shipments Every Week!_

Catalogue Men’s and Women’s Wear. :

Famous knit to s for women - iegularlyi$18 -

Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters -
regularly $40 - reduced to $7.99

   Do You

   
 
  
 
  

 

  



. _ cI‘§.I'a'

 
 
  

  

 

       
   
   
   
       
   

Alum opens
new vineyard ,
in Raphine

By li-‘.A.\1\‘i-1 Biuoos /,
Phi Features Editor ‘

For wine connossieurs and enthusiasts, there is a new vineyard here in
the Lexington area. - ‘

Rockbridge Vineyard, established by Shepard and Jane Ross in nearby
Raphine, offers an alternative to French and California wines. The wine
produced at 9
the vineyard,
w h i C h
opened on
May 1, is
made from a
F r e n c h -
A m e r i c a n
hybrid grape-
vine known
as Vidal.

S h e p
Ross, who
g r a d u ate d
from Wash-
ington and
Lee in ’76,
received his
degree in
enology, or
w ine-mak-
ing, at the University of Califomia-Davis. He worked as a winemaker in the
Napa Valley of California before moving to the Rockbridge area in November
of last year.

Jane Ross said that she and her husband purchased the old Mynes Dairy
Farm outside Raphine five years ago, and they planted five acres of vines

“The vines have to be at least three years old,” Ross said. “Our vines go
into their fifth year in June. This will be our third harvest, and our ’92 vintage

will be our first wine made with Rockbridge grapes.” ,
Ross said that she and her husband market the blended table wine to area‘

stores and restaurants. '

“I just got back from the Stauiiton Kroger’s,” she said. “Our wine is
available at the Lexington Kroger’s as well.”

“Virginia wines are only getting better,” Ross said. “We’re getting to know
what grapes grow best in what areas, and certain wineries are getting a good
reputation. Virginia wines tend to be very subtle and elegant.”

 

Ross said that she has found the people in Virginia to be very supportive I

of home industries.
“Our opening was very successful —~ all of our neighbors came out to
support us,” Ross said. “We’ve found the response to be very encouraging.”
Rockbridge Vineyard is open to the public, and the Ross family offers tours

    
     
     
 

 

 
 

 

. his career goal is Sbar will be at the W&L Bookstore and wine~tasting Thursday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
‘ ' ' ' ' F ' F F F ‘ L ’ 0' to write humor, on Saturday May 8 from l—2:3()p.m. to The vineyard is located on route 606, off ofroute 81 at exit 205, 1.1 miles
Jon Sbar but qualified that sign copies of his book. past the town of Raphine. For more information call (703) 377-6204. g
\ 1 1 Want to sta in Lexin ton this
HOUSE For Rent 2  Y g
4 Bedroom 512 Bath ‘ {L 3 0 Summer?   1
7 — ' Mellow ‘ob ﬂexible hours $350 4
. at LEE-HI J > a 3
7    Breakfagt BuffetF[-iday & Saturday month - 4 and 6 110111‘ days. YO1.1’d
on On Route 11, Nf,f1}1‘_tU1_éaf’ri‘%-a:°$fLg-;T1- better love kids, there are 5, (Yes,
 per mgnth, Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2 5 of tglgénl Opportunlty to earn
p.m. All—U-Can Eat $4.99 more - . Picture ourself in The '
1 IIlOl'ltl1 free OVBI‘ Wednesday Night BBQ Night —choice of S d f M ° y -th t th
potato & Vegetable OLLTL . 0 ' .LtSI,C, WI 011 9
Summer 1/2Racl< —$5.99 Who1eRack- $ 10.95 maI1S10I1, Slnglngs 01" m0n€Y-
- ° Saturday Night Prime Rib Call LuAnne at 463-963
K0311   anytllnej Queen Cut $11.95 King Cut $13.95 6 “
'==— . Breakfast, Lunch,’ and Dinner served ‘j-“
24 hrs. a day. Welcome
. 4 miles North on Route 1 1 -W&L
_ We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice and , _ «
A - 3 hell Alumni and Friends .
OU'l'LE'I'S  r so ~  
. , ‘ R. E. Lee Memorial Church
§“éi2.“.i‘§ZiF2i’i°§‘i.o‘*f§‘§33‘i“%.Y§%‘£‘i$i;‘c‘3‘&¥.iW°”’ mow§s'hm‘i531‘co‘ue“ge <EpiW1> 1  
P ’ ' ’ signed “R.E. Lee”  May 9’  o
merchandise from America’s‘ most famous mail ' F tzh h I£S1gnatur€S1£E Le J
i . . , . . .. ,
 A V M_ M‘f1%y C John Letihé Guest Prmchert The RightReverend Philip Turner, 58
In- Store Warehouse Sale on Nationally Famous Edward Valentme D33“ Oi B€Ik€1€Y D1V1“1t)’ 5011001 3lY31€
V 0 W&L Copperplate, hand—colored ' V _ _ .
There are reductions from 25 _  on Men,s and 1 W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art. 8330311], I.-Ioly Eucharist (RV1te~I).
Maryiiciilcipdgggeyxtligghiiilgriiijrgiieces Gumt Celebrarligtz Elie  Rd(i!\I’)€l‘€nd [Charlie McNutt, ‘53
' is opo tr emisy vania
Now $3.00. Se eeted Henley Shirts reduced to $3.00. 103011“ H01 Euchamt (Rite H)
0’ i . ﬁetygsgglggofsgtreét Guest Celebrant: The  Reverend Sam B. Hulsey, ‘53 .
Lexington _.   I“ U  (703) 45435454 Bishop of Northwest Texas
Downtown (Robert E. Lee Bldg.) ' , - . 0
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30  l l   ?(I))(3r,i3d:§3(]) i3‘.Snaiiurda,y_ 5i)0p.m. Holy Eucharist (Rite ll)
703-463-9730 5 K ' r r J 1 .
Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards? 5: STUDENT sERvicEs.iiox 1792lI.PLANTATl0N.FL 3331 : "(rot 5 _
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  I I W O ERCARD¢ Cred I GAUDIO _I‘/‘DEG 
~ accepted credit cards In the world...Vlsa® and MastcrCard® l . Wm“ SA /MAST . " I '
CW1" Cardﬁ--"1" YOU!’ “amt-" EVEN 1'’ YOU ARE NEW ‘N’ l Cards. Endosed find 65 which is 100% refundable If not I 25:3?‘ 5 ifgge
     -
deserve and need for— lD—BOOEKS—DEPAN}LT’?:1b%.§T 3  3 5 '3(os‘roN o5i=[i)Nrrive .
STORES-—TUlTlON— NTERTAI —  KLIPSCH BAZOOKA
9  3 ADDRESS   . 1 :
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! | CITY “ STATE _. ZIP | : g,§§,'g,‘;‘;LELR'*V§;§°ENCg§,';;§WENT
Mﬁgoi   : PHONE  5-..s_s,« : ::.':::.R:'::.r.9:.'.:“rs.2:a.. '
°"" sﬁ,c.aug No credit _ I SIGNATURE I (800) 468-6667. ;
“5|tlV‘:‘¢f_D “:1 N0 SECUTHSY d8D0$1t! ' norrz: Mmacmi Isl mgmmamaemnidu-caoiniinmnuiomiim ' comerofogdenagstarkey Road; '
“unl; 0.51 IF - Va] ab I ccd I Visa Is 3 u.-gisieiui anaemia ofVlSA usa. Inn and VISA imen-uomi I o.,,,t.,.,i.;,.g T.,.9i.,.,,,°d M."
‘ ol APPFO 50 Ulcly guannt 50 | Senna: Anocldlon. 100% OUARANTEED! | 2750 Ogden Road-Roanoke
 7' ‘

 

 

 

Q
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

By Mi\1'f Dll.l.r\Rl)
Phi Staff Writer

-1

Two years ago, one of the most
revered and loved professors at Wash-
ington and Lee retired.

This week, Sidney Coulling, Pro-
fessor of English Emeritus, is return-
i v for Alumni Weekend celebrations,
and will present a speech titled “Re-
membrance of Things Past.”

“Washington and Lee has the best
ofeverything,” Coulling said. “My stu-
dents and colleagues were intelligent
and conscientious, and the climate and
the honor system are both wonderful.”

‘My final three years at W&L were
the most pleasurable,” Coulling said.
“I was able to teach my favorite classes
in 19th century British poetry and prose.
It was nice to leave feeling so good
about my stay at W&L.”

Coulling first came to W&L as a
stt!‘tlent in 1942. His undergraduate
years were interrupted by service in
World War II, postponing his gradua-
tion until 1948.

After attending graduate school at
University of North Carolina at Chapel
H"ll, Coulling was offered a position
teaching English at W&L and gladly
returned in 1956.

Coulling is most interested in early
British literature and is impressed by
the six Romantic poets and the major
Victorian authors.

“Blake, Wordsworth, and Keats
ha?/e always been favorites of mine,”
he said, “and I enjoy Dickens, George
Eliot, and Hardy.”

Coulling’s speech will discuss “the
experiences of ten different classes,
the oldest of which were freshmen in
1939 and the youngest of which gradu-
ated in 1988,” he said. “I want to dis-
cuss 50 years of W&L history and
bring these ten classes into the various
social and athletic events of W&L in
those years.”

“Changes here do not take place
until there has been a great clamor for
them. There were people calling for
coeducation in the very first years of
the l9()0’s,” Coulling said.

“in my view, the university has
maintained a real connection with the
past. it has endured evolution, and has
embodied its evolution in tradition,”

. he said.

Sidney Coulling

“The honor system,
so much a part of W&L
tradition, is one of the
most remarkable things
about the University,”
Coulling said.

“For over one hun-
dred years, professors
have been able to walk
out of the classroom dur-
ing exams.”

“The changes have
been for the overall good
of the University,” he
said. “For instance, in
any number of ways, the
recent performance of
Mendelssohn’s Elijah
would never have been
possible even ten years
ago. [have enjoyed more
the increased attention
to the arts.”

Students of Coulling
continue to admire him
as a teacher and as a
member of the W&L
community.

Susan Moseley ’93,
who recently finished

Popular professor ponders W&L past I

studying for English comprehensives,
said, “Those of us who had Coulling
remembered everything he taught us
since freshman year. He is a wonderful
man.”

“He is one of the finest oralors I’ve
ever heard,” Phil Spears, ’93, said.

“His lectures were always flawless
and moving, and he never used lecture
notes. He made learning English excit-
ing,” Spears said.

Andrea Cardamone, ’93, said, “He
has an incredible memory. He just
pulled things out ofthe air. He seemed
to have memorized every Romantic
poem.”

“He was really approachable, and a
very dignified gentleman,” she said.

Scott Smith, ’93, said, “The man
had incredible presence. The way he
spoke was amazing. He sounded as if
he was reciting a speech and never
stuttered.”

“ I was in the last class he taught,”
Smith said. “He finished the class with
John Keats’ poem “To Autumn,” and
about half the class cried because it
was so moving.”

“Professor Coulling was an amaz-
ing teacher,” reflected Caroline Clarke,
’93. “He was a challenging teacher,
but I never felt intimidated because he
did everything he could do to help
students.”

“He’s the best teacher I’ve had and
the reason why I’m an English major,”
Clarke said.

Coulling will speak in Lee Chapel
on Thursday at 8:30 p.m to begin
Alumni Weekend festivities.

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Kind
5 Postage sticker

10 Potato

14 Aleutian island
15 Tall slender

building
16 Horse
17 A place, in
retrospect

19 Aquatic plant
20 Sixth sense
21 Associate

22 Agriculturist
24 Reciines

25 Set of actors
26 Way of entry
29 One's familiar

area

33 Aspect

34 Drills

35 Needlefish

36 Fishing poles
37 Trousers

38 countenance
39 Anger

40 Meditates

41 Deck officers
42 Learned

44 Gaited horses
45 Sharp blows
46 Portion

47 Salad plant
50 Clubs

51 Metal container
54 Raring to go
55 Legislature

building

58 Manufacture
59 Dined

60 Competent

61 Toboggan

62 Expanded

63 Clarinet tongue

DOWN

1 Identical

2 Lyric poems

3 Sloping
roadway

4 Boxing decision

5 Fashions

6 Sounds a ball

7 Absent

8 Human beings

9 Introduces. in a
way

_ 13 Cherished

7

 

@1993 Tribune Media Services. Inc.

All Right: Reserved

10 "Wise"
conceited
person :

11 Part of the hand

12 Entreat

18 Lift

23 Inquires
24 Smaller amount
25 Groceries '

vehicles

26 Spring month
27 Task

28 West Point

student

29 Studied hard
30 Game marble
31 Speed car

32 Frock

34 Foundations
37 Intentions

38 Actuality

40 Solid food

41 Swampy tract
43 Bartered

44 Inventor's right
46 Thin ﬂat disk

1

05/06/93
Last Week’s Puzzle Solved
SLAB BEAIMS SPEW
COTE URBAN COLE
ARON LIANA HOSE
REPTILE ORDERED
_ ERE CREAM
SEMESTER STEPIN
OVAL IVE ERASE
_R__A_N SNEAKED LEE
EDICT TIES FORD
SEALED ERTHUSES
ARIAS EER
REFINER PENNAN_'|'_
ATOM TOTEM AGEE
PAR EMOTIE CARD
SLED RATEJD EROS
04/30/93

47 Scottish caps 52 Capri, e.g.

48 Elliptical 53 Something

49 Emcee's item lacking

50 Reduce the 56 Spigot

force 57 Rowing
51 Hollow cylinder implement

 

   

 

in Get Somebody Totally Wasted!
7/it/‘(fl/If/tilt‘,
' . ”"“A/If fliflf
FRIENDS l]llN’l [El FRIENDS Ulllllf llllllNK

0‘ oudale-K-Diamond‘ R acki'

Jansport daypacks and book bags

  1 on Bike  “

 

Mon.-liri. 9-5/Sat. '9~12 Noon ‘

  
  
    

  

        
 

All Wiiiré

\\\ 

; i2'3N,. Main st.‘ 
g — Lexin ton, VA 24450
///////////////////////

  
  
   

   

- Great Location

463-3013, Monday thru Friday.

 

apps

, iM¢rahandis,e  1 I ,-
50%: i

/1

Apartment for Rent

Catering to W&L Students — Two Bedroom apartment for
rent in downtown Lexington, just a very short walk from the
W&L campus. $160 per month, per bedroom. $320 per
month for the unit. Including 1 free parking space next to
apartment and only 1/2 block from campus.

- Landlord pays for water, including hot water
If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. Brown, at

o»

(703) 463-5988

463-7969 4

 

\

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

 

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

 HEATRE

AT WASHINGTON AND LEE
presents

BECCA

A MUSICAL FANTASY

Caring. stable single female
school teacher desires to
adopt a baby. Financially secure.
Can provide loving & fun family.
Call collect 804-572-8403 or
write P. O. Box 655, South Boston,
VA 24592.

" 'NlT~lTERNATlCl§lAL 
EMPLOYMENT

Make money teaching basic
conversational English abroad.
Japan 8: Taiwan. Make up to

    

Many provide room 8: board +
other benefits! No previous
training or teaching certificate
required! For employment
rogram call:
(206) 632-1146 Ext. JS342

$2,000 to $4,000+ per month.

YOU DON'T HAVE
TO DRINK
TO RIDE DRUNK.

Medicine can affect your balance, co
ordination. and vision as much as
alcohol. After drinking or taking med-
ication, don't ride.That’s

the best safety prescription.
MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATION e

Join ﬂecca on tﬁe adventure of her life and cﬁeerfor ﬂer - DON'T {M155 PT!

May 2022 at 7:00 P
May 22 & 23 at 2:00 PM

KELLER THEATRE 0
Tickets & Reservations 0 463-8000 0 Noon - 4 PM 0 Monday thru Friday

LENFEST CENTER

  
 

x... cm . -. -1.

 

 

 
  

 

Phot ancy Pv|ovic_ The Ring-tum Phi
Nadine Strossen

 

By Miciii-:t.i.i5 BRll£l\'
Phi Staff Writer

One year after the Los Angeles ri-
ots, the issue was still hot enough to
pack Lee Chapel for a debate between
former L.A. Police Department Chief
Daryl Gates and American Civil Liber-
ties Union National President Nadine
Strossen.

Strossen and Gates debated the is-
sue of police brutality wider the topic
of“Law and Order and the L.A. Riots.”

Strossen said the two guilty verdicts
from the recent second trial of the four
police officers who beat Rodney King
have not solved the problem.

“If we are to get anything from the
riots we should see that police brutality
is systemic, notan aberration,” Strossen
said in her opening statement. “The
Amnesty lntemational report [after the
riots] concluded that there is a serious
problem in the L.A.P.D. from exces-
sive use of force.”

    
 

it
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1993

Strossen, Gates debate on L.A. riot issue’

Gates responded that Strossen’s
statements were “fuzzy facts that lead
to fuzzy conclusi()ns and a fuzzy phi-
los()phy.”

“I don’t think most people gave a
hill of beans about the verdict [of the
first Rodney King triall,” said Gates.
“They saw it as a chance to sink to the
lowest common denominator.”

Gates said the justice system worked
in the first trial and that the second trial
was politically correct.

“Tragedy befell the twoofficers con-
victed,” said Gates. ‘‘I understand the
satisfaction of the conviction, but the
whole situation was tragic.”

This is the third time Gates and
Strossen have debated, but the first at
which there were no violence or dem-
onstrations because of their debate.

“Students at other schools have or-
ganized demonstrations against Gates,”
Strossen said after the debate.

Gates was the L.A. Police Chief
during the rioting that followed the

acquittal of four white police officers
on trial for beating black motorist
Rodney King. The incident vaulted
into the national spotlight because ama-
teur photographer George Holiday cap-
tured the beating on videotape.

Gates retired from the L.A.P.D. on
March 28, 1993, one year after the
Rodney King incident. Gates served
with the L.A.P.D. for 43 years, the last
14 as chief. He is recognized as the
father of the Drug Abuse Resistance
Education (D.A.R.E.) program. Gates
also pioneered the concept and imple-
mentation of the nation’s first SWAT
team.

Strossen was elected president of

the ACLU in January 1991. She has
served the ACLU as national general
counsel since 1986. Strossen is the first
woman and the youngest person to
hold the top position.

Thursday’s debate was sponsored
by the W&L chapter of the ACLU, the
Federalist Society and the Black Law

Student Association. Dean Randall
Bezanson of the Washington and Lee
School of Law moderated the debate.

W&L ACLU Chapter President
Andrew Schneider said the event was a
huge success.

“The debate caused a lot of people
to think about the problems of law
enforcement and criminal justice in
our system and how it affects minori-
ties,” said Schneider.

Schneider said W&L’s apparent
apathy during the rioting prompted him
to organize the event.

“Things were going on atother carn-
puses: riots, sit-ins, teach-ins,” said
Schneider. “Nothing happened here. 1
made a mental note of that. I wanted to
do something last spring, but it didn't
occur to me to do the debate until this
winter.”

“The whole point was to raise
consciousness...we all benefitted from
it, no matter what side of the issue you
fall on.”

' etc by Nany"Pavlovic,-r.‘i ng

Clockwise from top right: Cast and crew ofthe Foreign
Student prepare for yesterday's filming. Marco
Hotfschneider takes a break from the action and waits
for his scene to be shot. Cathargo Films crew occupy
two-hour parking spots for three days, and cause

commotion in Lexington

The Foreign Student

  
  
 
  

Darryl Gates

Delt’s suspension
to end this summer’

D From DELT, page 1

network of alumni committees
to match the undergraduate com-
mittees. The alumni committees
will act as a liason between the
fraternity and the rest of the
alumni.

“Wc’re going to need all the
support we can get,” McCabe
said. “We have to show [the
alumni] the chapter has tumed
around and that they should give
it another look.”

McCabe said that Deltnation-
als have been very supportive of
the W&L chapter since its sus-
pension a year and a half ago.
McCabe said that in most situa-
tions, the chapter would have had
its charter revoked when the uni-
versity suspended the chapter.

The next challenge Delt must
face is rush. McCabe said he is

pleased with lFC’s new rush pro-
posal, but wished pledge class
caps had been a part of the final
plan. 0

‘‘I believe that the disparity in
pledge class sizes and the dispar-
ity in house sizes is nothing but
detrimental,” said McCabe.

McCabe said the fraternity
will count on help from its alumni
and nationals to coordinate a st!c-
cessful rush.

Howison compared Delt’s
plight for a successful rush to
Sigma Phi Epsi1on’s rush last
year. Howison said Sig Ep was a
small fraternity that utilized
strong leadership and their ril-
tionals to secure a first-rate pledge
class in 1991.

“I want to be optimistic and
upbeat,” Howison said. “Delt is
back and we’re confident they’ll
do well.”

VMl cadets pulled 9

from ACLU debate,

53 From VMI, page 1

sin gle-sex admissions policy and
coeducation, respectively.

Andrew Schneider, president
of W&L’s ACLU chapter, dis-
agreed with VMl’s decision to
pull Tweety and Coleman.

“1 made it clear beforehand
that the cadets would make dis-
claimers so their opinions could
not be interpreted as the official
VMI position,” said Schneider.
“After reading the disclaimer,
the cadets debating should in no
way have affected VMI’s court
case.”

Bissell explained why he

debate.
‘‘It’s like a criminal court pro-

ceeding where no discussion can '

take place until after it's over,”
Bissell said. “We can’thave any-
thing interfere with our
appeal...The two cadets came Co
me wishing to participate in the
debate, but we had to say, ‘Guys,
you can ’t— not until the Supreme
Court is done with it. Then you
can talk all you want.”’
Schneiderdidn ’t think that was
a good enough excuse. 0
‘‘While I understand their rea-
son for pulling Coleman and
Tweety,” he said, “the decision
contradicts everything a univer-

r

All photos by Bethany Smith, The Fiing-tum Phi would no, allow me cadels ,0 my is for_’’_
0
A|um’s killer
. Alumni Weekend Schedule
 g   n   THURSDAY, MAY 6 Remarks by President John D. Wilson.,All Alumni, spouses and guests are invited.
8:30 p.m. —Opening Reunion Assembly, Lee Chapel 11 am-12:3() p.m. —— Hillel Reception, University Center, Fairfax Lounge .

Keynote Speaker: Dr.Sidney M.B. Coulling, Ill ’46, professor of English
emeritus,“Remembrance of Things Past: W&L 1939-1988”

9-11 p.m.——Welcoming Reception, Alumni House

FRIDAY, MAY 7

9 a.m.-5 p.m. —— Reunion Registration, Alumni House

9 a.m. — Spring Meeting of the Law Council, Lewis Hall

9-10:30 a.m. — Reunion Seminar, Lenfest Center, Keller Theatre
“Where Do We Go From Here?” A Panel Discussion sponsored by the Class of 1953
9:30-10:30 a.m. — Reunion Seminar,Moot Court Room, Lewis Hall
“W&L Law School Today: A Panel Discussion”

10:30 a.m. — Campus Tours,Alumni House

10:45-12 noon —— Reunion Seminar, Lenfest Center, Keller Theatre
“Education in America: Some Local Reflections”

11:30 a.m. -— Class Meetings, Campus Locations

11:30 a.m. — Dedication of the Class of 1943 Memorial Wall

1 1:30 a.m. — Special Tours of the Reeves Center

12-] p.m.—— Alumni Authors Book Signing,University Book Store
1230-1 :30 p.m. — Luncheon,Front Lawn

1—2:30 p.m. — Alumni Authors Book Signing, University Book Store
1:30 pm.-- ODK Spring Initiation, Lee Chapel. All Alumni, especially ODK mem- ‘
bers, are invited. 1

2 p.m. — The Lee—Jackson classic Lacrosse Game,VMI Alumni Field
EVENING ACTIVITIES

5-7 p.m. —- Vicory Celebration, Zollman’s Pavilion

LAW SCHOOL ALUMNI

6-7:30 p.m. — Law School Alumni Cocktails, Law School Photos,

FROM STAFF REPORTS

A Peruvian special terrorism court sentenced
a Peruvian man last week in the murder of
Tampa Tribune reporter and Washington and
Lee alumnus Todd Smith, who was found tor-
tured to death in Peru some 3-1/2 years ago.

Jose Antonio Manrique Vega, an alleged
Maoist Shining Path guerrilla, was sentenced
last Thursday to 30 years in prison for killing
Smith, who was investigating the drug trade in
Peru when he was tortured and murdered. Smith
was a member of Washington and Lee’s class
of ’83.

Mamiquo was oonvioiod iaigeiy due to a 10:45-12 noon -— Reunion Seminar, duPont 102 the Home of Dean and Mrs. Randall P. Bezanson (1 11 Lee Avenue). ‘ .

Fedora] Bureau of Investigation regulation that 12-1: 15 p.m. — Luncheon, Front Lawn 7:30 p.m. — Banquet for all Law Alumni,Evans Dining Hall

allows the FBI to pursue cases outside of the Rain Plan: Doremux Gymnasium/Warner Center UNDERGRADUATE ALUMNI _

United States when terrorists are involved. A 1:30-2:30 p.m. — Reunion Seminar,Lee Chapel 7-11:00 p.m. —— Old—Fashioned Barbecue Bash at Zollman’s Pavilion

federally-protected witness helped the terror— “W&L Today: A Student Panel Discussion” for the Undergraduate Classes 1973, 1978, 1983, 1988.

ism courtto convict Manrique. The FBland the 2:45-4 p.m. —Reunion seminar, duPont 102 Class of 1943

U.S. Embassy have been working together on “China: The Tiger Purrs?” 6 p.m. — Cocktails at the Alumni House, entertainment by WLUR and Southern

the case since 1989. 2:45-4 p.m. —— Reunion Seminar, Commerce School, Room 327 Comfort . :

7:30 p.m — Banfquct and Dance at the Lexington Golf and Country Club. E.me7tain-

Smith had been visiting coca fields with
ment by .]ubiLee and the Jim Caldwell Band

representatives from the local coca—growers

“You Are Only Young Once, But You Can Be Immature All of Your Life!”
Sponsored by the Class of 1968. '

cooperative, who attempted to convince Smith 3 p.m. —Campus Tours,Alumni House Class of 1948

to stay the night in the area with the army. 5:30 -7 p.m. — Cocktails with the Faeulty,Front Lawn 6:30 p.in. — Cocktails and Banqueet at the Willson—Walker House.

When Smith tried to catch a plane out of the llonoring Retiring Faculty: Edward C. Atwood, Jr., Ph.D., Professor of Economics Class of 1953

area, he was abducted by armed men. (1953-1993) and Cleveland P. Hickman, Jr., Ph.D., Professor of Biology (1967-1993). 6:3() p.m. Cocktails and Banquet at the Lenfest Center. Entertainment by the

Rain Plan: Warner Center

6:30-8 p.m. ——Buffet Dinner,Front Lawn

Entertainment by The Johnny McClenon Big Band. Rain P/an: Warner Center
9-12:30 a.m. ——- Reunion Dance (lnformal),Wamer Center

Featuring SPECTRUM, Special Guests: The Cla.\‘.\‘ of / 993

SATURDAY, MAY 8

8 a.m. — Fun Run through W&L and Lcxington,Doremus Gymnasium

Led by “Stormin” Norman Lord, professor of Physical Education emeritus

The witness, whose name is being withheld,
testified he had been kidnapped by terrorists
after trying to sell an alligator to Smith in the
jungle town of Uchiza, where Smith was even-
tually killed. The witness said he was brought
to a cabin on the outskirts of Uchiza, where he
testified Smith was beaten and tortured. After
being accused ofbeing Smith’s accomplice for

Thornhill Trio .
Class of 1958

6:3() p.in. -— Cocktails and Barbecue at the Home of Edgar and Julie MacKinlay ’58.
Entertainment by Wildgrass

Class of 1963

6:3() p.in. ~— Cocktails and Banquet at the Gaines Hall Gatehouse. Entertainment by
Southern Comfort

Class of 1968

having talked [0 him i“ ‘Own: ‘he Wimcss Said 9-10 a.m. —— Registration for Late Arrivals, Alumni House 6:3() p.in. — Cocktails at the Summer House at Natural Bridge Dinner and Dance in ” ‘
he mamgcd ‘O “C399 ‘he cab” and afterwards 9:-1() a.m. —Photos for the Undergraduate and Lee Chapel. Law Classes of ’43, ’48, the J effcrson Room at the Natural Bridge Hotel.

ran to the U.S. Embassy to seek help‘. . _ :53, »58, and :63 FOR ALL ALUMNI

Under P°“%Vl=1“ '3“: mm 15“? d‘~‘‘‘“°‘‘°T‘ 10 a.m. ——Joint Meeting of the W&L Alumni and the W&L Law Alumni Associations, 9:30-1:00 a.in. 4-. “In the GHQ,” Universtiy Center
“twee” h°”“°‘d° and accomphcc [0 hom" Lee Chapel. 9:30—1 1:30 p.m. —— Relax with Friends at the Alumni House.
zle. Mai.: ique has appealed the decision to the
'\ Supreme Court.
0

 

 

Thg Ring-tum Phi, MAY 6, 1993

 
    
  
         
 

re’

REDUCED PRII
' FRESH PORK

SPARE

       
 

 Hams teeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

egg: ha‘... I n ‘ .
‘57-'s’-.I.‘.Z~3~*».'F«.5’-r'r.’

  
 

GROUND FRESH
SEVERAL TIMES
DAILY

FRESH
MUSHROOMS

5 oz.

   
 
 

DIET COKE OR
COCA-COLA

2 IITER O 9

 
 

  

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

   
   
 

, ~ WORK AT
A THE BEACH!

AND HILTON HEAD
LOCATIONS ARE
NOW HIRING FOR
THE SUMMER.

IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON
HEAD LOCATIONS OR MAIL
APPLICATION TO: '1 “

O

    
  

JERRY ALLEN \  ,
HARRIS TEETER, INC.
LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER

. ROUTE 2, BOX 288
LITCHFIELD, S.C. 29585

IIBIIISTBBIBI
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK!

 

OUR MYRTLE BEACH

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE twin 4

DIET COLA OR “EASE
COLA ....t2 PK. 1202. CANS

RESTAURANT STYLE

TOSTITOS
CHIPS ............................. ..t 0 oz.

ORE-IDA

GOLDEN

I 99
FRIES ........................ ..32 oz.
BORDEN

1 29
SINGLE WRAP I 39
CHEESE ................... ..l 2 oz.

179

    

SPORTS

Athletes counsel teammates

PAGE 9

By ANDREA COBRIN
Phi News Editor

Student-athletes at Washington and Lee don’t have to
look past their own team members to find someone who is
trained to help them.

This fall 32 athletes, at least one from each sports team,
were trained to counsel their teammates in a number of
areas. These athletes are now called S.A.M.s, or student-
athlete mentors, and they help to link their team to the
different resources the university has to offer.

Athletic Director Mike Walsh decided there was a need
for this type of program at W&L after attending a conference
at University of Virginia in January 1991. The conference
was on Alcohol Prevention Programming and Leadership
Education. W&L’s S.A.M.s program is based on a similar
program at UVa.

“What it really is is a mentoring program for student-
athletes,” Walsh said. “ [A S.A.M.] is someone who can be
a friend to offer assistance to a [teammate] on a myriad of
levels.”

Athletic trainer Tom Jones agrees.

“The S.A.M.s are available to assist in terms of informa-
tion and support,” Jones said.

Junior Tara Bums, who is co—captain of the women’s
volleyball team, was part of the committee that helped bring
the S.A.M.s program to W&L. Burns said the program is
very specific to the individual teams.

“As a S.A.M., you can create whatever type of program
you want for your team,”junior Tara Burns said. “What the
team wants is what the S.A.M.s do for them.”

Burns said the volleyball team wanted a program on

MEN’S LACROSSE . .
pl0I'lShlpS.
Despite trailing 6-1 after the first

 

letic Association Division III Cham-

Baker hopes, however, to eclipse

injury prevention so she went to Jones to ask him to put that
type of program together.

Jones said he has also done programs on nutrition, off-
season conditioning and overuse syndromes like tendonitis
and shin splints.

“We would address any issue of significance to the
athlete,” Jones said.

Bums said a main concern with the program was that it
would be just alcohol prevention, but she says this is not the
case at all.

“They don’t pick S.A.M.s who don’t drink,” Burns said.
“That’s not what the program is about. The one thing that
people need to understand is that it’s not intended for the
S.A.M.s to be a bunch of narcs. lt’s for the athletes to help
[each other] become better student-athletes."

Burns says the program is another counseling tool for the
university. She says athletes may feel more comfortable
going to a teammate rather than to a peer counscl()r. Also,
a S.A.M. is trained to help recognize signs oftrouble. lfthey
see a teammate struggling, they can help recommend coun-
seling.

Jones agrees.

“We see the S.A.M.s as playing the role of offering a
channel for information as as a communicative element
between teams and coaches,” Jones said.

The athletic department is looking ahead to the program’s
first full year of operation, which will start in the fall.

“The key element in this are those S.A.M.s who were
picked to help out their teams,” Jones said. “l’m encour-
aged. I think we have a lot of good people and this
underlines the positives of athletic involvement in terms of
self-discipline and the [outcome] of positive attitudes to-
wards good sportsmanship.”

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

ond in W&L history.

TRACK AND FIELD

CHUNK LIGHT
STAR KIST
TUNA

6. I2 OZ.
i§‘a"3‘t‘t"

 
 

HUNTER

ALI. NATURAL
° ICE CREAM

   
 

HALF GAL.

ASSORTED
VARIETIES

 

KELLOGG'S
RICE
KRISPIES

  

I5 OZ.

  
   

  

   

Prices Effective Through May 4, I993

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, April 28 Throu
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None

    

hTues_day, May 4, 1993. In Lekington ‘ Stores
Sold To Dealers. We Giadiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

  

quarter in Saturday’s game against
Division I Mt. St. Mary's, the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
pulled out a stellar 17-12 win.

Senior Wiemi Douoguih scored
a career-high nine points off six goals
and three assists to lead the Gener-
als, who came on with an 8-0 run
after falling to 7-2 early in the sec-
ond quarter. Sophomore Scott
Mackley contributed to the Gener-
als’ victory with four goals.

This outcome brings W&L’s
record to 10-2 on the season. Wash-
ington and Lee now leads the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference with
a 5-0 record, and is tied with Roanoke
College.

Roanoke, 4th-ranked in Division
III, will face off against10th-ranked
W&L today on Wilson Field in a
game which will decide the 1993
ODAC Championship and could
give its victor a berth in the National
Collegiate Athletic Association Na-
tional tournament.

Douoguih’s performance on Sat-
urday brings his season point-total
to 60, 12th-best in school history.
His 88 career goals is the llth—high—
est total Washington and Lee has
ever seen.

TENNIS

Sophomore Marilyn Baker has
repeated her performance of last year
as she earned her second-straight
berth in the National Collegiate Ath-

last year’s performance from now
on. In 1992, she lost in the round of
16, though she was the first W&L
female ever to advance past the first
round.

“I hope to place in the top 10 this
year,” said Baker. Though the doubles
team of Baker and freshman Julie
Ayers was ranked 14th in the nation
at mid-season, they failed to reach
the tournament.

Baker, the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Year, will
compete May 15-1 7 at Carleton Col-
lege in Northfield, Minnesota.

On the men’s side, the doubles
team of junior Robbie MacNaughton
and freshman Peter Hammond are
waiting eagerly today to discover if
they will be asked to the men’s NCAA
tournament in Kalamazoo, Michigan.
They are ranked 6th nationally.

MaeNaughton hopes to top his
ODAC Player of the Year perfor-
mance by an individual invitation to
the May 19th tournament.

BASEBALL

For the first time since l99(), a
Washington and Lee athlete was
named to the baseball All-Old Do-
minion Athletic Confcrence teams.

Senior shortstop Jon Hesse made
the All-ODAC second team after hit-
ting .333 this season, scoring nine
doubles and 13 runners batted in. His
double total -ties the school record,
and his career 21 doubles ranks sec-

Feeling left out as they watch
Washington and Lee’s other spring
sports advance to national competi-
tion are the track teams, who are
doing their utmost to reach qualify-
ing standards in several events.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer,
who has already qualified provision-
ally for Division III Nationals, will
compete for her second time in the
l0,00()-meter run at the University of
North Carolina Invitational on Satur-
day. Shemustshave aboutoneminute
off her previous mark in order to
qualify automatically.

Also nursing high hopes for quali-
fication are the members of the W&L
men’s 400-meter relay team, juniors
Scot Covey and John Robinson,
sophomore Hayne Hodges and f resh-
man Dax Mahoney. At Lynchburg
College May 1, they once again ob-
tained a mark of42.5 seconds, only
two—tcnths of a second offprovisional

 quaiifying time and fivc-tenths from

automatic time. '

Bo Hannah ran a personal best
time of 15: 15.5 in the500()-meter run
at Lynchburg, only 21 seconds from
provisional qualification. He intends
to compete in the l0,()()0 at UNC.

Sophomore Sarah Gilbert also
competed over the weekend, becom-
ing the first W&L athlete to ccmpete
in the heptathlon as she ran against
sonte of the Division l’s top talent at
Liberty University. She placed third
in both the high jump and the S00-
metct'run,finishing with 3,241 points.

Photo by W. Patrick Hlnely

Sophomore Marilyn Baker, on her merry way to the Division III National Championship,
returns a serve from an opponent.

  

Last Week:

WLax-W&L 7, Roanoke 6

MLa><-W&L 17, Mt. St. Mary's 12
MTrack—at Lynchburg invitational
WTrack-5th at Liberty Multi-event

PAGE

Young women
make big stars,

SARAH on Sponrs
by Sarah Gilbert

Sure, I kriowuthat the Atlanta
Braves went from worst-to-first
afew years ago,"and the Orlando
Magic have risen from the cellar
of the Eastern Conference to
showcase the Shaq Attack, but
the amazing development of the
women’s athletic programs at
Washington and Lee University
is worth watching a little more
closely.

Think about it. Atlanta and
Orlando have the benefits of lot-
tery drafts and payrolls, while
many of the W&L women ath-
letes‘ came to Lexington
unrecruited and, in many cases,
with no plans to compete in their
respective sports.

In only five seasons, the
women’s lacrosse team has
earned the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference title twice and
this year the girls in skirts are
heading to Division III Nation-
als. Not bad for a 5-year-old.

How could even a profes-
sional team accomplish feats to
rival these? Perhaps by padding

its schedules with patsies?

Nope.W&L willhave played
the No. l and No. Zteams in DIII
this year, not to mention com-
peting in a conference which
this year held 10th-ranked
Roanoke.

Everyone has a prodigy,
right? Then how does one ex-
plain theGenerals’ women’s ten-
nis team? Only a conflict with
the winter exam schedule pre-
vented the entire team from a
probable invitation to DIII Na- '
tionals, and sophomore Marilyn
Baker will travel to Michigan to
compete against (and, most
likely, beat) thebest in the coun- I
try

Flukes? I don’t think so.
Next we have women’s soc-

cer. Five years old, two-time

ODAC regular season champi-

‘ms’: Llié.-’~t’2lr'1tl'U¥,?i.’?tV,3 9;:”‘li~=.’Lli‘;v —

ing, take a look at the 4-year-old
women’s cross country team.
Distances mean nothing to these
girl s, who travelled to New York
this fall to compete in Nationals
and showcase All-American dis-
tance goddess, freshman
Josephine Schaeffer. (Put that in
your scrapbook, Josephine!)

And how ’bout that women’s
swimming team? No older than
lacrosse or soccer, the team this
year sported two, count them 1-
2, All—Americans. '

Freshman Rebekah Prince
adorned her first trip to Nation-
als with a sixth and seventh place,
while senior Claire Dudley ﬁn-
ished her fourth excursion with
two finishes in the top 16.

officiality to different degrees
are surpassing every dream.

, Women’s tracﬁ, only‘ Thur
years young, recently earned its
fourth unofficial ODAC Indoor
Championship, and finished in
the top two outdoors for the
fourth time. Schaeffer wolloped
all her DI competitors in a meet
at Duke University, and several
W&L women are consistently A
competitive at the DI level.

the women’s basketball team
became the winningest hoops

ment, they came in second towa
team which was ranked nation-
ally. As a club?

Yes, as —a club. In fact, the
performance of the team was
impressive enough to earn Var-

“The conventional wisdom
is that our girlsaren’thard-nosed
enough [tolplay aggressive
sportsl,” said basketball coach
and history professor Barry
Machado. ‘.‘But they demon-
strated beyond question that
there was a willingness to de-
velop, improve and compete.”

If only ﬁveyears can bring
such amazing accomplishments

one’s mind, to imagine what hon-’
ors, what championships, what

ognition the next five years will
bring. '_
program as stellar as that of the
Generals? Show me the Dallas

which shine brighter and carry
their brilliance with incompa-
rable class and aptitude: the

If these teams a‘ren"t eonvine- ' '

Even those sports which lack '

We’re going to New Jersey!

Women’s lacrosse says R.l.P.(ken) to Roanoke in ODAC Championship

By Knrm GR/\i\"l‘
Phi Staff Writer

If Saturday’s Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference women’s lacrosse
championship had been a commercial,
it would have ended with, “It just
doesn’t get any better than this.”

With the clock reading “00:0l”,
Nicole Ripken did the improbable and
beat the stingy Roanoke College
goaltender with a quick shot inside the
left post to break a 6-6 tie, leaving just
enough time for a midfield faceoff.

The goal, perhaps one of the most
dramatic moments in W&L sports his-
tory, sent the estimated crowd of 500
into a frenzy and put the Generals (14-
2) into their first ever Division III Na-
tional Toumament. Washington and
Lee must travel to Trenton, New Jersey
for a Saturday game against top-ranked
Trenton State College ( 1 2-0). The win-
ner will advance to the NCAA semi-
finals at College Park, MD.

W&L advanced to the ODAC final

S

@112 ﬂing-tum Iﬁhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

following a 19-4 rout of Randolph-
Macon in Friday’s second semi-final
game on the Liberty Hall Fields.
Roanoke got past Lynchburg in the
first game to set up the rematch of last
season’s title game.

The 2nd-seeded Maroons rallied
from a 6-4 deficit in the final minutes
and tied the game on Li’/. Florence’s
third goal with 1:51 left. At that point,
many of the Generals felt the game
slipping away.

“I feltjust a little panicked after the
fifth goal [by Roanokel,” said junior
Angie Carrington, who assisted on the
game-winner. ”After their sixth, I
wasn’t even thinking about overtime. I
just felt that somehow we ’ve got to win
this thing.”

Head coach Janine Hathom hoped
the Generals could get the game into
overtime. W&L had beaten Roanoke
twice in a row by 10-9 scores, includ-
ing last year’s ODAC championship
and this season’s regular season title
game.

“There was a point where I just

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

Game-winner Nicole Ripken, sophomore, ignores her Roanoke
competitor in Saturday's ODAC championship game.

 

This Week:
MLa><—Roanoke 5/6, at VMI 5/8
WLax—at Trenton State 5/8

M&WTrack—at UNC Invitational

  
  

    
  

MAY 6, 199

Generals rejoice after Ripken’s last-second goal brought the second-straig ht ODAC ehampionshi

trophy to Lexington.

wanted to buy another overtime and
get a timeout,” said Hathom.

Generals’ goaliejunior Sarah Smith
appeared to have done just that with a
huge save in the final minute to stop a
furious Roanoke attack.

“They had a couple of shots and I
really thought one of those was going
to go in,” said Ripken, a sophomore.

The last of Smit.h’s eight saves,
though, started a last ditch charge by
the Generals. Carrington scooped up a
loose ball and turned upfield.

“When I got the ball, I saw 2() sec-
onds on the clock and just ran down,”
she said. “I don’t remember whatl saw
when I turned toward the goal. I knew
I was guarded tightly and, ldon’t know
why, ljust ran to the side of the goal.”

While Carrington drew the atten-
tion of the defense, Ripken cut across
the front of the net. As the crowd came
to its feet and counted down the final
five seconds, Carrington fed Ripken,
who turned once and fired a shot into
the far comer of the goal.

“I didn’t think it counted,” said
Ripken. “I turned around and saw one
second on the clock, then I saw the ref
signaling ‘goal.’ Angie and I looked at
each other and I think we realized at the
same time that it counted.”

The 7-6 victory gave the women
their second straight ODAC crown. At
14-2, the Generals have their best-ever
overall record and have improved their
mark in each of their five seasons as a
varsity team. They have also now won
13 consecutive home games, dating
back to last season’s 12-8 regular sea-
son loss to Roanoke. That game was
also their last loss to an ODAC oppo-
nent.

What makes this win more dramatic

W&L—RC rivalry heats up  

which Roanoke won again on their way to another chant-

Without even varsity status, . 5

squad in Lexington with a 7-5 9
record. In a post-season toum‘a- - 5

sity status and a bona’-ﬁde, sala- _ S
ried coach next year. V. ‘

to Washington and Lee, it blows '8
national commendations and rec- ’ 1
Can anyone find a tledging 

Cowboys, and l’ll show you stars r

women of Washington and Lee. L

By Knmr Gmwr
Phi Staff Writer

For the second time this week, Roanoke College will
bus up I-81 to Lexington to decide the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference lacrosse championship. Saturday
it was the women. Thursday, it will be the men.

For two decades, it was a men’s rivalry that annually
pitted the Shenandoah’s top two teams against one
another. Now that coach Janine Hathorn has turned "the
W&L women’s program into a national power in just
five years, the I-81 rivalry is as intense as ever.

“Roanoke is a very intense, competitive school,”
said Paige Henke, a senior on the W&L women’s
lacrosse team. “This game is always going to be the
toughest game for both of us.”

One can assume that the meetings will only get
tougher for the women. W&L has taken three in a row
from RC after never having beaten them before last
year’s ODAC Tournament final. The Generals took
that one in a 10-9 overtime thriller. On the last day of the

1993 regular season, W&L won another classic, again
1()—9 in OT.

Finally, Nicole Ripken’s literal last-second goal last
Saturday gave the Generals their first ever NCAA
Division III tournament bid.

“Roanoke really prides themselves on making the
nationals,” said junior Angie Carrington. “We came in
really focused on just that game.”

The first playoff meeting between the Roanoke and
W&L women was in the Generals’ first season as a
varsity team. Despite a 3-4 ODAC campaign, W&L
advanced to the tournament semi-finals after a 7-5 win
at Harnpden-Sydney College. The Maroons, though,
came away with a 14-10 win in the semis. ,

The rivalry heated up in 1990, as the Maroons and
Generals took the top two seeds for the ODAC Touma-
ment. A W&L semi-final loss to Lynchburg, however,
prevented a final matchup with eventual champion

Roanoke.

They did meet again in a 1991 semifinal game,

, other, the schools’ sizes are very similar. Roanoke has

pionship. However, the 8-7 margin was a telling sign that
the Maroons’ dominance was slipping.

Sure enough, Roanoke’s 12-8 win in Lexington during
the 1992 regular seasonwas their last victory over W&L.

“It's now established that it will always be a great game
when we play them,” said Hathom. “It’s always going to
be huge, now as much as ever.”

According to Roanoke men’s head lacrosse coach Bill
Pilat, the men’s rivalry has dated back to at least the early
seventies, when W&L was in Division I and Roanoke
played Division II.

“The schools are very similar,” said Pilat. “And the
guys tend to know each other from summer leagues or
from high school.”

Generals senior Josh Levinson agreed with Pilat.

“The players nearly all come from the same areas-
Maryland, Long Island, New England—and wc’rc usually
matched up pretty even,” said Levinson.

In addition to being within a one hour drive of each

about 1500 students, while W&L tops off at 1600.

Since Washington and Lee entered the ODAC in 1987,
the competition between the two has become very fierce.
In ’87, the Maroons knocked offW&L in the Generals first
ODAC season to take the conference championship, in
double overtime!

The Maroons took two of the next three titles before
Washington and Lee won its first and (for now) only
ODAC championship in 1991. W&L finished the season
at a perfect 5-0, while Roanoke paid for its loss to the
Generals and came in second at 4-1.

“We’re both always near the top of the conference and
that just keeps adding to the rivalry,” Pilat said.

Roanoke managed revenge last year by winning the
annual meeting, 14-1 1,, to claim its tenth ODAC crown.

With both teams ranked in the top ten nationally this
year and a bid for the NCAA Division III Tournament
once again at stake, the rivalry between these two confer-
ence powers does not appear to be weakening. In fact, with
the competition among the women now as intense as that
among the men, the Shenandoah may never be the same.

 

was that they did it without leading
scorer Lisa Dowling. Dowling owns
every school offensive record for a
game, season, and career. The senior
captain scored an early goal for W&L,
but was injured midway through the
first half and could not return.

Dowling had taken two hard falls.
On the second one, she came down
hard on her head.

“I just couldn’t get my hands off of
my stick fast enough,” said Dowling.
She suffered a minor concussion and a
black eye.

The Generals shuffled several play-
ers around to make up for the loss.
Carrington picked up theoffensiveload
with three goals, including two just
before halftime to give W&L a 5-4
lead. Ripken tallied two scores.

The women felt that the strong turn-
out ofW&L faithful to the Liberty Hall
Fields gave them a solid advantage.

“It was a definite advantage to be at
home,” said senior Paige Henke. “It
can be intimidating to play at Roanoke.
Their fans are pretty loud and can make
things rough.”

While Hathom believed the key to
the win was the play of Smith and the
Generals’ team defense, Henke had
another theory.

“I honestly think that we wanted it
more,” she said. “There were bad calls
both ways, and missed shots for both of
us, but we had a strong core of seniors
who wanted this game more than them.”

The team learned of their NCAA
tournament bid on Monday. This is the
sixth time coach Hathom will take a
team into the Division III national tour-
nament, but it is the Generals’ first
appearance. It will also be the first time
that W&L will face the number-one

Washington and Lee and Roanoke athletes perpetuate tradition
as senior John Hunter tends of an opponent.

 

  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  

1
Photo by W. Patrick Hinel

ranked team.

Trenton State was a perfect 12-
this season and is in the midst ofa 39
game win streak. The streak dates bac
to April 13, 1991 when they fell t
Ithaca College, 5-4. Trenton State’
last regular season home loss was al
most exactly a year before that, 10-8 t
Northwestern. ,

The team’s top scorer is9Pa
Pluquez, who comes into the tourn‘
ment with 45 goals and I0 assist.
Pluquex is one of 24 New Jerseyites o
the 25-player roster. Kyrs Preston (3
goals, 19 assists) and Jennife
Ma’/.7.acco (29 goals) are among se
eral Trenton State women with 2! lea
20 goals.

The team's strength, however, i
their goaltending. Gina Carey has a
lowed just 54 goals, while saving 14
shots. Carey has a .733 save percentag
and her goals-against average is a mi
nuscule 4.56. i

According to Ripken, the General
have been working more than usual 0
their shooting this week. Althoug
Trenton St. defeated Roanoke 18-
earlier this year, they beat Salisbury S
by a very similar score to the Genet
als’.Their final was l5—6,whi}e W&L’
victory was 15-5.

Ripken said that spectators who sa
both contests said that the Genera
played as well as Trenton St. did.

“We’re going in with a good att
tude,” said Ripken.

Hathom, whose career co hi
mark is now 10845, believes thatt
Generals have a good chance to exten
their season with a win on,Saturday.

“On any given day, anything c
happen,” she said. “We’re going ther
to play to win.”

     

   
  
  
  

  

   
  
    

  
  
     
   
  
    
    
     
   
 
    
    
  
    
  
   
    
  
    
   
  

   

  
   
  
   
   

  

O

 

 
 
   
 
 
  

 
  

 
  

  

  

 
  

 
 
 
  

 
  
 
 
 
 
   

 
  
 
 
 
 
  

  

  
 
  

  
   
  

   
   

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

   
  

    

    

 

 

THE UNIVERENTY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON St LEE UNIVERSITY
LEX4.i\IG'l'ON.V‘.A 24-‘:-B0

MAY 1

    Cllnzﬂing-111m Iﬂlti

salt

4 I993

  

VOLUME 92, NO. 26

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

We are the champions

M The Washington and Lee men's lacrosse team celebrates their 9-8 victory over Roanoke. See story, page 6.

Sexual assault video educates

      

Photo by Darran Winslow, The Ring-tum Phi

Students show video to promote awareness

By MICHAEL HEWLET1‘
Phi Staff Writer

“No relevance.” “Rough love.” “Full
blown discrimination against men.” “An-
dther thing ugly women complain about.”
These are some of the responses that W&L
students used to define date rape in a survey
conducted by Denise Branard, ’92, and
Heather Turner, ’92.

Branard and Tumor used the results of the
survey to make Painful Encounters: Forced
tkx by Someone You Know, a video based on
interviews with W&L rape victims. Branard
and Turner made the video last year as a
project for Professor David Novack’s Gen-
der Relations course. _

Branard decided to make the video after
she went through training with the
iockbridge Area Coalition Against Sexual
Assault (RACASA). According to Branard,
most of the videos at RACASA were out-
dated.

She said people [on campus] were “lulled
into a sense of security.”

Branard said it was not difficult to get
W&L victims to come forward. Associate
Dean of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont
helped arrange it. After researching general
literature, statistics, and gender surveys, it
took Branard and Turner six weeks to com-
plete the film.

VMI to host
Lexington’s
third movie

By THOMAS HESPOS
. Phi News Editor

Whoever handles publicity for the City of
Lexington is doing an incredible job.

For the third time in a year, Lexington will
host a movie, this time on the campus of
Virginia Military Institute. Filming will start
July 10. The movie will be called Conduct
Unbecoming: The Court Martial of Johnson
Whitaker, according to VMI Director of Pub-
lic Relations Mike Strickler.

According to a news release by Strickler,
the movie is based on a true story of a black
cadet who attended West Point in 1881.
Whitaker, the only black cadet at the academy
at the time, was assaulted in- his room a few
months before his graduation by three masked
men. Whitaker asked a court of inquiry to
look into the incident and the court instead
charged Whitaker with the crime. Whitaker
was found guilty and asked for a court-martial
to clear his name. The resulting trial found
Whitaker guilty of faking the incident, but the
conviction was later overturned.

VMI was chosen for the filming because
Virginia is a right-to—work state which will

not force the producers to pay actors union _

wages.
According to the release, Harry Jones, a
ulti—ta1ented Emmy award-winner, will pro-
gitce the film for Showtime, a cable television
station. The movie will not appear in theaters.

This year, four W&L women, Heather
Rhodes, ’93, Lyrac Van Clief, ’93, Elizabeth
Dettmar, ’94, and Betsy Kleiner, ’.93, have
shown the video to the Interfratemity Coun-
cil, Phi Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Kappa
Kappa Gamma, Pi Beta Phi and Kappa Al-
pha Theta.

“There wasn’t a lot of discussion after-
wards,” IFC President Curt Smith said. “I
don’t think people expected a presentation
with such an impact. It’s a pretty powerful
presentation. It kind of puts things in per-
spective when it’s people you know and see
around campus.”

Elizabeth Dettmar, who participated in
the making of the video and has been part of
the rape support group on campus, said she
wanted to make people aware about date
rape.

“We wanted an educational tool to help
change students’ attitudes about date rape at
W&L,” said Dettmar.

Schroer—Larnont believes the video can
serve as an effective tool in changing atti-
tudes.

“It is the most powerful tool that we’ve
found thus far to demonstrate the problem of
forced intercourse by someone you know,”
said Schroer-Lamont. “Many of the men
who have attended these programs seem to
be deeply moved by the personal stories of
our own students.”

Novack believes the video can be an ef-

fective tool in combating date rape.

“One of the things important about that
videotape is that it attempts to make male and
female students more aware in communica-
tions,” he said.

Novack said the video also made women
more careful, made men listen to what women
want and don’t want, and made men more
sensitive to the need for sexual relations to be
consensual. .

For Betsy Kleiner, the video exists to
educate people and to serve as a healing
process for herself. Kleiner said that because
she graduates inlune, she wanted to show the
video to all of the fraternities and sororities
before she receives her diploma.

Kleiner said the videotape “hits people
pretty hard.”

Dettrnar believes the vide‘o"i‘s making
impact, but she has her doubts that it will
change people’s opinions.

“I think it’s asking for a miracle to expect
that this [video] will change attitudes at
W&L,” she said. “It's going to take more
than a video.”

Smith agreed.

“I don’t think one tape is going to change
people’s attitudes,” he said. “but having
people in the houses who are educated helps.
I think education is what prevents that kind of
stuff [from happening]. [IFC] will help out
with the program if they want to do it again
next year.”

Art Pavilion

By MELISSA Cuims
Phi Staff Writer

For those who are wondering when
the Watson Pavilion will finally open,
they have a while to wait—it won’t be
ready until the fall.

“It’s been a very complicated build-
ing and it took the contractor longer than
he bargained for, ” said Frank Parsons,
university coordinator of capital plan-
ning. I

The Watson Pavilion, an extension of
the Reeves Center will house a collection
of antique Chinese furniture, jade pieces
and porcelain donated by Mrs. William
Watson, whose husband was a 1929
Washington and Lee graduate. The col-
lection is valued at over $6 million. Mrs.
Watson requested the building be called
the Watson Pavilion, not the Watson
Gallery.

Construction of the building will be
completed in late May, but Watson Pa-
vilion won’t be open to the public until

opensinfaﬂ

next school year.

“We’re hoping to be open to the Uni-
versity family when school is back in
session, ” said Director of the Reeves
Center Tom Litzenburg, who is in charge
of preparing the Watson Pavilion for Mrs.
Watson.

Litzenberg said it will take all summer
to do the inventory of the collection and
to place it in the building.

Litzenburg said the dedication of the
Watson Pavilion will take place the week-
end of October 23, with the Board of
Trustees present.

Parsons said the contractor will be
working on a list of “all the little things
that need to be attended to,” like remov-
ing extraneous nails and touching up paint
in spots.

Parsons said one big job that still needs
to be done is cover ing the steel pipe on
the top of the columns with white column
covers. Parsons said the covers are appar-
ently “lost in transit.”

“Nobody knows where the heck they
are,” Parsons said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 13, 1993

SAC reviews Beta
conduct problems

By FRANCESCA Karxuxs
Phi Executive Editor

Beta Theta Pi Fraternity went
before the Student Affairs Com-
mittee at 2 p.m. today for a re-
view of the fraternity”s conduct
during the school year.

SAC officials said their “con-
cern is a pattern of unacceptable
behavior in the house particu-
larly concerning house damage.”

Dean of Students David
Howison said SAC can either
place Beta on critical probation,
suspend the fraternity or take no
action.

Beta appeared before the
Interfratemity Council May 4 and
was placed on conduct probation
for the remainder of the school
year, IFC President Curt Smith
said.

“We suggested that Beta take
things into their own hands,”
Smith said. “We told Beta if we
have any more problems with
them we would automatical lyput
them on social probation.”

The IFC hearing was the re-
sult of a string of events:

0 On April 6 Beta made an
agreement concerning fraternity
conduct and house maintenance
with their house corporation.

Smith said Beta initiated the
agreement and requested help
from their house corporation.

0 On April 22 a Buildings
and Grounds inspection indicated
continued maintenance prob-
lcms.

0 On April 24 Security was
called to the Beta house for a
complaint of loud music and
bottle throwing from the back
porch on to Red Square‘.

Beta Chapter Advisor Farris
Hotchkiss said he did not want to
comment on the details of Beta’s
SAC hearing until the hearing is
over, but he did acknowledge
there have been problems in the
house.

“The house corporation, for
the Betas and the other fratemi—
ties, has a responsibility as land-
lord,” said Hotchkiss. “In this
particular case the house corpo-
ration has been paying close at-
tention.”

Hotchkiss said the Beta house
corporation met last weekend and
took action on the fraternity.
Hotchkiss would not comment
on the nature of the action, but
Smith said Beta dismissed one
fraternity member from the house
last weekend. He said one other
fraternity member had been dis-

missed earlier in the year.

Associate Dean of Students
and Greek Affairs Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said house in-
spection reports have listed dam-
ages that go beyond that of other
houses.

B&G Inspectorlim Boyd said
Beta’s weekly house inspections
have showed more damage than
most other houses.

Boyd said damages have in-
cluded furniture sawed in half,
indoor furniture left outside, party
damage from the basement to the
third floor, damaged light fix-
tures, holes in walls, damage to
the roof gutters and broken win-
dows and doors.

“If the damage continues like
this it won’t take long before
they are back where they were
[before Fraternity Renaissance],
” Boyd said.

Beta’s repair bill for the month I

of March was $1869.91, Boyd
said. Boyd, who inspects all the
fraternity houses, said Beta’s re-
pair bills are usually higher than
the other fraternities.

ButAtkins saidthe Betas have
tried to fix the problems on their
own.

“They’ve tried to do all they
can to straighten it out.”

 

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

Students who eat dinner at the General Head-
quarters will be out of luck next fall.

Gerald Darrell, director of food service, said the
GHQ will close beginning fall term because the
restaurant is not doing good business and the space
can be better used. The GHQ will lose several
thousand dollars in revenue this year, Darrell said.

“When the drinking age was 18 [the GHQ] was

very successful,” Darrell said. “The last two or

three years business has dropped.” -

Darrell said the GHQ is only busy between 1
noon and 12:40 p.m., for lunch, and 5:30 p.m. to
6:30 p.m. for dinner.

When the proposal for the new student center
fell through, Darrell approached Dean of Students
David Howison with a plan to turn the GHQ into
another room, like others in the University Center.

Darrell said after 2 p.m., when the GHQ closes,
the room will be available for catered affairs, bands,
debates or other functions involving a large group
of people. Darrell said he is planning several cater-
ing menus that will cost $6 to $7 per person.

Darrell said he has had to refusepeople who
want a catered event because the University Center
can not currently accommodate them.

“I am turning away 100 people who want to have
a dinner because I have a restaurant to feed 30
people,” he said.

Student Manager Chris Crenshaw does not agree
with the new plan.

“Generally the student employees don’t ap-
prove,” said Crenshaw.

_ I _ ' _ _ _ Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fi/'ng—tum Phi
Junior Nathan Dunn enjoys dinner at the Pit with a friend.

GHQ to close for dinner

Darrell told Crenshaw about the new plans for
the GHQ, Crenshaw said, but he thinks the plans
were already finalized.

“My opinion can only count for so
much,” Crenshaw said. “After all, I’m only a stu-
dent.” ‘ .

Howison said he and Darrell met with a group
of freshmen, including class president Dax
Mahoney, to discuss possible plans for the GHQ.

Howison said Dean of Freshman and Residence
Life Dennis Manning will work with the freshmen
next year to lead the way toward utilizing the GHQ
for nighttime activities.

‘‘If we find out it’s not successful after the first
term then obviously we have to re—think the whole

‘ GHQ,” Howison said.

Crenshaw said he is concerned with how much
work will be available for students with the new
GHQ plan.

Darrell said that won”t be a problem.

“There can be as much, if not more, work down
there at night.”

Darrell said the GHQ will have one manager
and a part-time worker and the rest of the employ-
ees will be students.

GHQ customers are mostly the same people
every night, Darrell said. A big concern was where
GHQ customers would eat dinner, he said.

Darrell said the Co—op will open at 6 p.m.
instead of 8 p.m., or may even stay open the whole
day. He said he wants the Co—op to have a dinner
special, like the GHQ has now.

This year business dropped at the Co—op for the
first time in 24 years, Darrel said.

“There’s just much more competition than there
was before.”

‘Living with HIV’: one 25-year-old’s story

By NANCY PAVLOVIC

knew I could never. tell my parents,”

‘‘It was learning to live for another

“I view myself as having a temii-

thing.”

 

 

Phi Managing Editor

With her chin—lengLh auburn hair
and easy smile, Beatrice von
Guggenbcrg looks like the average
25-year-old with her entire life still in
front of her. But for Beatrice, an en-
tire life may not mean living until
she’s 80. '

Seven years ago, when Beatrice
was a sophomore at Mary Washing-
ton College in Fredricksburg, she got
a phone call from her boyfriend of
three years, Tadd, telling her that the
test was positive; he had HIV. Soon
after, Beatrice tested positive too.
Nothing was ever the same, Beatrice
told the audience gathered in Lee
Chapel Wednesday night. She pre-
sented “Living with HIV, My Story”
as part of AIDS Education Week.

“I felt so alone and so ashamed. 1

  

in school and be-

Beatrice said.“'Ihey had told me God minute, another hour, and then an-

would punish me for no longer being
a virgin.”
ltwasn’tun—
til aftcr Tadd’s
death in June
that she began
dealing with her
own HIV status.
Despite becom-
ing suicidal af-
ter his death,
Beatrice stayed

gan putting her
life together.
Slowly, as she
told more people
about her condi -
tion, Beatrice
leamed that her
life wasn’t over.

Beatrice

other day,”

 

Beatrice said. ‘‘I never
thought l’dlive
to see gradua-
tion day. But I
did and I was
healthy and had
a bright future
ahead of me.”
She enrolled
in the Districtof
C o I u tn b i a
School of Law
for the fall of
1990. After her
first year,

drew because
she knew she

would need
health insur-
ance.

Beatrice with-,

nal illness and there I was in Con-
tracts and Torts thinking ‘ifl was to
die tomorrow would I want to be here
today ?”’ Beatrice said.

That fall Beatrice began working
with the Whitman-Walker Clinic of

"Northern Virginia as a volunteer co-

ordinator. She also bcgan speaking
tours around the country to inform
other people about HIV, AIDS, and
prevention .

“Because so many people don‘t
know their status, we have to act as if
everyone we come in contact with is
HIV positive,” she said.

Education and awareness are the
key to understanding AIDS and HIV,
she said. I

“I know there are still a lot of

people who are uneducated,” she said.
“AIDS has been in this country for 12
years and they still don’t know any-

Often Beatrice thinks about the
disease’s effect on her life and cur-
rent medical opinion. According to
experts, the average person will de-
velop ‘full-blown’ AIDS within seven
to ten years of becoming infected.
Sometimes she wonders ifher time is
running out.

“I have to keep telling myself
‘that’s what those ‘experts’ say’. It’s
hard to remember that I know more
than these experts do because I know
how it affects my body,” she said.

Although AIDS awareness has
increased, people have di fficulty deal —
ing with HIV and AIDS head on.

“It's not as simple as going to an
AIDS seminar or wearing a condom.
lt’s dealing with your own mortality
and admitting that there’s something
out there that could kill you,” Beatrice
said.

PAGE 2

Ellie itttng-tum iﬂlti

Founded September 18, 1897

Use it, or Lose

All week long you’ve been bombarded with AIDS awareness
information. We hope you have been listening and‘ watching.
The truth is, if you’re having sex and you‘re not practicing safe
sex you can get infected with HIV. AIDS is not a homosexual
or drug addict disease, it’s a human disease.

The fastest growing population of HIV positive people are
teens and women.

Experts will tell you f your going to have sex wear a condom,
or have your partner wear one. The very idea of not practicing
safer-sex is ludicrous.

If you don’t protect yourself during sex, you’re having sex
with everyone your partner has had sex with in the last 10 years.

Although wearing a condom greatly reduces your chances of
getting the HIV virus, abstinence is the only proven method of
prevention.

Use a condom, it won’t kill you if you do. But it might ifyou
don’t.

——- F.K.. N.P.

The GHQ (R.|.P.)

It is the end of the month. You paid the last of the bills
yesterday. You have no cash left. Fortunately, you have some
money left on your University Card. Where will you go for
dinner? The Co-op? Not likely. The Co-op is great for lunch
or for a pre-class snack, but not all that good for dinner.

How about the D-Hall? Also not very likely. You've eaten
every meal the D-Hall has to offer at least 100 times. As a matter
of fact, if you see just one more plate of.Tuna Devonshire or
Chicken Cacciatore, you will probably go the way of the
disgruntled Michigan Postal worker.

So where do you go? How about the Pit? Oh yeah, you forgot.
The Pit is closed.

Why is the Pit closed? Because it is losing money. But where
is it written down that the University has to make enormous
profits from student meals?

Recently, University Treasurer Larry Broomall told a jour-
nalism student that Skylark, the University-owned retreat facil-

ity, lo)§t__§.1ﬂQ,QOQ last year.’ You djonftseeg the University closing“ V

Skylark down. So why should the Pitbe closed?

The real problem here is students who use the Pit were never
really asked their opinion about closingthe place. Jerry Darrell
and Dean Howison got together a panel of freshman to decide
the fate of the Pit. When was the last time you saw a freshman
in the Pit? It’s true the Pit isn’t a busy place, but maybe another
solution could have been found if someone bothered to ask the
students who eat at the Pit.

Well, all of you who eat at the Pit on a regular basis will soon
be able to enjoy ﬁne dining at the Co-op. Maybe the university
will even open a restaurant at Skylark.

Quote of the Week

"Thank God it's over."
— VMI’s LAX coach in the huddle after Saturday’s Lee-
Jackson Classic.

Ellie Tiling-tum ilﬂht

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .< . . . . . . . .Whitncy Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller

The Ring—tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring—tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appearin that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Ex-Spect

My View

By Cameron Humphries

As for the time being, The Ring-tum
Phi remains Washington and Lee’s
paper of record, I am answering Mr.
Pat McDermott’s mischaracteri7ation
of the Hedquist/Spectator affair de-
scribed in an April 29th “My View” in
your publication.

It is hard to believe that half of the
student body wasn’t here when the
affair occurred. l was then editor-in-
chief of the W&L Spectator in March
l99l when our advertising editor in-
formed me that a professor was ap-
proaching Lexington merchants and
“intimidating” them into ceasing their
patronage of the publication. (So meek
were her efforts, however, that she
even lacked the courage to deliver one
letter face-to-f ace, supinely preferring
instead to leave the letter on a
merchant’s countenop while the atten-

- dants were in the back.)

Though I am not schooled in the
finer points of anti-trust law, those who
were informed the Spectator that
Hedquist’s action was, at best, margin-
ally legal. While it is legal to organize
public boycotts or otherwise overtly
protest a business’ activities, it is not
legal to covertly approach one busi-
ness and attempt to coerce them into
ceasing their commerce with a second
business, But this is exactly what
Hedquist did.

I take strong issue with Mr.
McDermott’s characterization of
Hedquist’s “ordeal” with the
Spectator’s “well-known hatred.” It is,
of course, all too characteristicof ultra-
leftists like Mr. McDermott to equate
differences of opinion with hatred, but
for those of us who value people as
much or more than policies, it is pos-
sible to enjoy personal relationships
with those with whom we also share
disagreements.

It is not my disposition to hate.
Thus,despitemydifferenceswithPresi-
dent Wilson, deans Elrod, Howison,
Ruscio, and countless faculty and other
administrators, I nevertheless maintain
strong personal relationships with them.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

Among the many fond memories I will
retain of my four brief years at W&L
will be those relationships I held with
so many of whom I was also critical. I
fear, as is so often the case with the
values and traditions of W&L, that this
may not be the case “in the real world.”

Professor Hedquist’s responses to
the entire affair were, however, very
indicative of the real world of which
she is a product. Before the Spectator
printed one word, before the Richmond
Times-Dispatch published one para-
graph, and I assume, before anyone
knew of her activities, the Spectator
approached the professor. Hedquist was
extraordinarily confrontational from
the f irstencounter forwards. She hardly
agreed to see anyone from the maga-
zine at all. When she did, she refused to
explain why she wrote the letters or
whether or not she intended to continue
writingthem. She wouldn’t tell us who
she wrote or how many advertisers she
contacted. Other than repeating that
her “personal correspondence is per-
sonal,” she said almost nothing. We
offered her an unedited article in the
Spectator; she declined. We asked her
to write a letter to The Ring-tum Phi;
she refused. ' ,

The Spectator responded in its April
1991 issue with an editorial once again
asking Hedquist to explain why she
believed attempting to adversely affect
the budget of an independent publica-
tion was an appropriate action for a
university professor. Hedquist re-
sponded by firm g of f a second round of
letters; this time using registered mail.
Reacting to what we had no option but
to perceive as a threat to the financial
stability of the publication, the Specta-
tor adopted an “aggressive position.”
We placed her picture on the cover of
the magazine, we forwarded the story
to the Richmond Tirnes-Dt'spat(:h, and
we’ informed some national organiza-
tions of her activities.

The rest is history.

Personally, though Mr. McDermott
and other like—minded illiberal won’t
believe it, I bear no ill will towards
Professor Hedquist. As far as I’m con-
cerned, the matter between Hedquist

and the Spectator never became per-

sonal. Her colleagues, however, did

not hesitate to make it so. Hedquist’s
superior, Pamela Simpson, used a mis-
understanding within the department,
coupled with a deliberate
mischaracterization of a personal meet-
ing between me and her to offer a gross
exaggeration regarding my character
to the student body via a letter to The
Ring—tum Phi’. She stated quite errone-
ously that I verbally intimidated
Hedquist, interrupted Hedquist’s class,
and treated Simpson with hostility.
Of course, anyone who knows me
recognizes the
charges to «be ut-
terly false, but
alas,_ those who
don't are free to
draw their own
conclusions. I
asked foran apol-
ogy; she refused.
I haven’t spoken

As for Profes-
sor Peck, her em-
barrassments are
already legend-
ary. She, of
course, levied the
stock incitements
againstthemaga-
zine and its edi-
tors: racist, sex-
ist, etc. —- all
without substan-
tiation. No one
spoke out and la-
beled,Peck’s little
effort as yet an-
other example of

‘Diversity,’ Robert
Holland writes, “Drip,
drip, drip.” And with
thetirade on ‘diversity,’
Mr. McDermott, you tell
with hcr»sim=<=-  --«on yourself and other»
members of your self-
righteous, self-styled
clique. If the Spectator
doesn’t contribute to
diversity at W&L, I
don’t know what does.
What could be more
‘diverse’ than a group of
like-minded individuals
coming together to
found a publication, 21
forum, for their ideas.

ator chief denies allegations,

tion, a forum, for their ideas. The
founders of the Spectator sacrificed
time, money, untold grade-points to
produce the first issues. And for that
they were greeted with nothing less
than the hypocritical, unqualified r -
sentment of a small, but vocal, minor-
ity within the W&L community whose
best definition of diversity is to convert
Washington and Lee into one of any
number of small liberal-arts colleges
that currently clutter the landscape of
higher education. The Spectator con-
stitutesadistinbt
voice in the
Rainbow Coali-
tion that Mr.
McDermott so
eloquently de-
scribes. Only
problem 9.4,
we’re not the
rightcolorforhis
tastes.

own, but watch
what you start
calling diverﬂe
and not-diverse,
Mr. McDermott,
lest someone ac-
cuse you of the
same closed-
miiidedness you
aitributetoWtS’d.
at large.

And while
you’re at it, get
your facts
straight, Pat. The
Spectator has al-

her “well known
hatred.” But I’m
sure McDermott wouldn’t call any-
thing that Peck did or said “hate.” Ac-
cording to his letter, that’s just diver-
sity.

“Diversity,” Robert Holland writes,
“Drip, drip, drip.” And with the tirade
on “diversity,” Mr. McDermott, you
tell on yourself and other members of
your self -righteous, self -styled clique.
If the Spectator doesn’t contribute to
diversity at W&L, Idon’t know what
does. What could be more “diverse”
than a group of like-minded individu-
als coming together to found a publica-

ways distributgd
copies to its ad-
vertisers as well as to the student body.
So as for trying to invent some new
justification for Hedquist’s (and Peck ’s,
lest we forget) cheap attempt at totali-
tarianism, be more creative next
time.As for Professor Hedquist, I wigh
her well. But the mistake was hers, not
ours. I regret that she lacks the charac-
ter to tough it out here until the comrnu—
nity was once again willing to accept
her (and eventually W&L would have).
She could leani a lot about diversity

from staying here. And so could yogi,

Mr. McDermott.

Diversity threatens honor system

MY VIEW

By Andrew J. Olmem

as individuals.”

In response to the “My View” by Patrick
McDermott in the April 29 Phi, I find the author’s call
for an increase in politically motivated diversity at
W&L a threat to this unique university. One of the
strengths of W&L is that students, for the most part,
all have a related belief in the ideals of the university,
panicularly the Honor System. This, as we know,
allows for an incredible academic environment that
fosters intellectual achievement and promotes friend-
ship. Take it away, and W&L would cease being an
extraordinary school. It would become another school
where students, divided into their own petty self-
interest groups, have no respect for the institution.
Why destroy an environment which so many students
find advantageous, to accommodate students who do
not believe in it? Instead, students should come to
W&L because they believe in and want to uphold its

ideals.

Mr. McDermott’s advocacy of tolerance and di-
versity has a distinct political slant. He says W&L
should be more tolerant, but causticall y calls thosewho
do not support gays “homophobic.” Would not a more
tolerant W&L be more open to other perspectives,
instead of trying to suppress them with unfair, nega-
tive labels? He defends a teacher who tried to suppress
a student publication that was not of heror his political
persuasion and then calls these students and alumni
who criticize her “intolerant.” The only viewpoint
that deserves tolerance by Mr. McDermott’s stan-

dards is his own.

Also, Mr. McDermott unfairly criticizes the greek
system, implying that it is some kind of social evil

behavior. Students
should be allowed to
choose which organiza-
tion theyjoin. Next, the
greek system is not out
of control. During par-
ties the fraternities take
extra security precau-
tions by having sober
officers and sober driv-
ers available. Regula-
tions by the Hill further
ensure that the greek sys-
tem does not get out of
control. Finally, mem-
bers of fraternities and
sororities understand the
value of being part of a
group and the danger of
being a self-centered in-
dividual. Most members
maintain a good balance

and well-rounded.

which promotes intolerance. “The lack of tolerance,”
he writes, “causes us to maintain and subsidizea greek
system which is totally outof control, so that we might
all fit into the appropriate cliques rather than stand out

First, abolishing the greek system is not tolerant

between their greek responsibilities and the pursuit of
their own individual interests. This adds to the quality
of W&L by making greek members more responsible

If Mr. McDermott really wants diversity he would
not demand that W&L conform to other schools. Real
diversity means some schools are single-sex and
some are co-ed, some are ethnically diverse and some
are homogeneous, some have traditional academic
programs and some have radical academic programs.

erancc.”

Havingavarietyofdifferentstylesofschools is true
diversity, not having every school adopt the same
politically motivated agenda of “diversity and tol-

Education at W&L will not be improved by
promoting tolerance and diversity of the politically

correct brand. Sltf
dents will have to

Members of fraternities and
sororities understand the value of
being part of a group and the
danger of being a self-centered
individual. Most‘ members main-
tain a good balance between their
greek responsibilities and the
pursuit of their own individual
interests. This adds to the quality
of W&L by making greek mem-
bers more responsible and well-'

rounded.

endure spending a
disproportionate
amount of academic
time studying
“homophobia,” and
whatever else is '
“in” politically cor-
rect issue. The more
time students devote
to such needless top-
' icsmcansthelessthey
study important aca-
demic courses such’ '
literature, history, and
mathematics.
W&L ' should
change, but not by
abandoning its suc-

cessful traditions. In-
stead of buildin

walls, more should be done to increase financrt
aid, improve the science facilities, eliminate the
greek fees (which excludes students from the Greek

system), and promote the ideals of Lee. W&L

should not sell out its fine traditions just to improve
its standing in a college guide or to conform to
students’ political persuasion. The bcnef its of a
W&L education have been proven, hence there i!
no reason for W&L to radically change in order to
satisfy college guides

or Mr. McDermott.

~r.4- _ ...J= .1‘-:2’-.'\.".--‘:~-"“‘~

To each his /

Y

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

  
  
    
  

Si>'os’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

Note: Spos was not feeling his usual
self this week, having spent the week-
endﬂunting wild alumni with Marlin
Perkins and Ted Nugent. He claims to
have been knocked unconscious at ap-
proximately 4 a.m. on Saturday night
when an empty beer keg was hurled
from the terrace of the Fairfax Lounge
and bounced off his noggin. Fortu-
nattdy, Spos was able to dispatch an
underling to a FAX machine and send
in his ﬁeld report for the weekend ex-
cursion, which we will present in its
entirety. Spos requests that, in lieu of
sending get-well cards or flowers, con-
tributions be sent to "The Spos Memo-
rial.Martyr Fund," care of The Ring-
tum Phi.

Hunting Wild Alumni: a field
study respectfully submitted to The
Ring-tum Phi by M. Perkins, T. Hespos
and T. Nugent.

Wild alumni are an interesting breed.
Scattered across the country in posi-
tions of great importance, wild alumni
are extremely unpredictable and, at
times, very dangerous. The most con-
sistent observation about wild alumni
is that they return en masse to Lexing-
ton,V irginia every spring, presumably
to breed.ln order to study the life cycle
and social habits of the wild alumnus,
we assumed the roles of participant
observers within the natural habitat of
the wild alumnus. We set up camp in
the Corral, pitching tents and assem-
bli t our extremely sensitive observa-
tion equipment (a pair of stylish bin-
oculars —— $75 in the Spring Eddie
Bauer catalog.)

As the alumni began to roll into
town on Friday morning in their
BMW ’s, Miatas and Mercedes Benzes,
our extremely sensitive observation
equipment revealed that the vast ma-
jority of the alumni had brought an

Spring marks wild alumni

interesting variety of intoxicants with
them. M. Perkins suggested that these
alcoholic beverages were offerings to
the god of public embarrassment,
lntoxieata-— bringerof icky upset stom-
achs. (T. Nugent thought this was a
bunch of B.S., but M. Perkins has spent
the better part of his life observing
primitive tribes and wrestling jungle
vermin for Mutual of Omaha’s Wild
Kingdom, so we accepted his hypoth-
esis.)

Friday night brought many insights
into the complicated social structure of
the wild alumnus. At approximately 7
p.m., alumni emerged from their tem-
porary lairs at Holiday Inn, the Keydet-
General, and the Comfort Inn, and con-
verged on the various fraternity houses
in Lexington. Once there, they partici-
pated in a complex social ritual that is
very similar to the “pecking order”
ritual that chickens tend to engage in.

In this ritual, male alumni call atten-
tion to themselves in an attempt to
make other male alumni feel less suc-
cessful. They do this verbally, saying
things like:

“As I’m sure you’ve already heard,
I made CEO last year,” or “I love my
new Lexus. It’s so much better than the
Maserati I was driving last year.”

As the night goes on, the male alumni
make their offerings to Intoxicata by
drinking several alcoholic beverages
and participating in the following‘ reli-
gious rituals:

1) Throwing up on another alum
nus’ shoes, or e

2) Attempting to mate with female
undergraduate students (usually unsuc-
cessfully). . A

Friday night yielded several inter-
esting insights into the breeding habits
of the wild alumnus. At approximately
2 a.m., those powerful alumni that
manage to secure a W&L undergradu-
ate or road-school mate go off to mo-
tels, fratemity houses or the Libeny
Hall ruins in order to nest. T. Nugent
would like to note that it is during this
mating period that the wild alumnus is
most vulnerable. Nugent landed sev-

in

g YugosIa.via.ni-:American.

-‘tin-» 'i:.»t‘.~~i;’l<’:~ ;-:t3t'3rr53ir: A _ M , 4 H , _
Dear Di‘-.’Kirgis and the iift‘e'el.atidnill 'Ijaw"""""“’t"idri‘. Maybe the time has com-é’io start listening and ' sccondis a quotation
‘ paying more attention to the forces outside and in
former Yugoslavia who have something else to say.
No one has to look very hard through Belgrade
University to find a very strong opposition to Slobodan
Milosevic and his peons. American and world univer-
sities are full of very distinguished Serbian and
Croatian scholars who strongly condemn the policies
of “their” governments. They need a chance to be
heard in and outside of Yugoslavia.

The point that one may learn from talks with such
people is, there is no one side to blame in this terrible
war, rather a very small minority representing official
governments. Governments which gained power and
control over their respective republics by feeding
their peoples with lies, fears, rumors and the worst
possible propaganda. That perspective never had a
chance to be represented in your panel. I have spoken
with several people attending the lecture, many of
whom share my assessment of the meeting, including
Dr. KrzystofJasiewicz. Let me finish with the sugges-

Soﬁety:

1 am writing this letter as a Yugoslavian-American
to express my deepest disappointment with the panel
discussion entitled: “Achieving a Lasting Peace in
Former Yugoslavia,” held on April 8, in Lenfest
Center. Under the pretext of an open academic discus-'
sion you have allowed the panelist to flood the room
wiﬁ quasi—inte1lectual rhetoric (Dr. Cohen), and offi-
cial propaganda by Brarikovic and Vujovic (surpris-

ingly to the lesser extent?).

The real shock came in the beginning with your
announcement that the public was not allowed to ask
any questions. My impression about these kinds of
discussions was that it encourages an open discus-
sioa, no matter how controversial it may be. If your
guests requested such a protocol then they should not
have been invited in the ’first place. If that decision
was made by the organizers, then the public should
not have been allowed inside the auditorium and
ultimately we would not feel cheated in thinking we

were welcome.

{is said in the closing statement, the issue at hand
is a very complex one indeed. “Experts” like Dr.
Cohen can never achieve anything but more destruc-

-"...7(.~'l". ..

- 1"-".4 }' .1‘.

disappoint

eral members of the Class of 1943 with
only a bow and arrow, and would like
to add that without hunters to control
their population, wild alumni would
overpopulate their ecosystem and starve
to death over the long, harsh winter.

With the sun’s rise on Saturday, the
devastation of the night before was
revealed to

SGBSOI1

T. Nugent observed one alumnus
who, with the aid of several “Harvey
Wallbangcrs,” had convinced himself
that he was Bob Hope. Swinging at
nonexistant golf balls with invisible
clubs, the alumnus slurred something
about his 9()th birthday drawing near.
T. Nugent put him out of his misery

with a well-placed

us, Large arrow. M. Perkins
mounds of ”  W()lJld  [0 UOIC
aluminum At approximately 7 that the resulting
cans almost - a umni stew was
nine feet in p'm" alu_n““_ernerged “mighty tasty.” T.
height were from their lairs and Hcspos, our ﬁeld
found in the converged on the vari_ guide,wastakenby
middle of me . . surprise when a fly-
su-cets       beer 
front of the Lexington. Once there, stgashed him up-
fraternity ‘ ~ - - si ethehead. For-
houm they participated in a ,u,,a,c1y’T_HeSp0S
Finding complex social ritual was fully insured
an excellent ' ' ' by the nice folks at
specimen of that“is very similar,to Mutual of Omaha.
a [u m ,1 u S the pecking Order He is recovering
in e b r I u s ritual that chickens tend 31i°lC(lyat5t0n°,Wa11
passed out . . ac son Hospital.
on the lawn t? engage "L In H“? Further devas-
in front of ritual, male alumni call tatiosn vtéas evident
phi Dena - on un ay morn-'
Them’ M. attention to themselves mg; Local my
pe,k;nSmea_ In an attempt t0 make cling centers were
aired thg other male alumni feel 0;/Crfltrrwing with
astqtaggc 3 uml um cans.
i, for me, less successful. L,,x,,,g,,,,, police
identifica— officers were vis-
tion, and set ibly Shaken.

it free. We will be able to track the
alumnus in the future via the radio
transmitter attached to his ear. Hope-
fully, this will grant us further insight
into the migration habits of the wild
alumnus.

Further nesting and subsequent
breeding occurred on Saturday night.
Those not engaging in reproductive
activities continued to worship
lntoxicata by drinking beer and cock-
tails. Several alumni were observed
while drunkcnly meandering down the
streets of Lexington, calling out names
of old fraternity brothers or attempting
to find their way to The Palms.

As the alumni departed in thunder-
ing herds, the undergraduate students
and administration of Washington and
Lee let out a sigh of relief. Hopefully,
with the aid of field studies like this

one, we will one day understand the .

bizarre world of‘the wild alumnus.

However, if we are to continue our
studies, we need your help. Please
write your local EC Rep and tell him or
her to keep the bucks flowing. ()r send
your tax-dcductable donation to Mu-
tual of()maha’s Wild Kingdom, Omaha
Nebraska, 60034. This story has been
respectfully submitted by M. Perkins,
T. Hcspos and T. Nugent.

iii

:(.

Shane.

tion how to achieve a lasting peace in my former

country with the inclusion of two recent opinions (I
have many more if you are interested). One is an
article by A.M. Rosenthal of The New York Times and

Interviews and Photos

by Melissa Curtis and Robert Stewart

Layout by Joe Framptom

   

TALKBACK

d.With :‘di$.¢"$$i°"’

'_,ifIi xtliii I.’ 1':-mi’ ...t =  -i‘

The article from The New York Times ,published
on April 6, included Dr. Ana Shane: “l have lost the
country in which I grew up. Criminal elements on
all sides with their atrocious acts have managed to
create a condition of fear, panic, and hate among the
nations which have provcn many times in the past
that there is no hate among them. When people in
our former country understand that their enemy is
not any ethnic group or nationality, but the crimi-
nals and their leaders on all sides, only then it will
be possible to organize together against aggressors
(whoever they may be, or whichever nationality
they belong to).”

I am concluding with hope that in the future our
university will provide more time and space for the
people who support democratic process, and repre-
sent the only hope for peace, no matter how insig-
nificant they appear to be. I can only remind you of
“Solidamosc” and its beginning in Poland.

Dusan Janjic,
Chemistry technician

from myrfriend," Dr; »Ana: .

Bike

The owner of the bike whose
yellow lock was cut last Tuesday by
The Foreign Student film crew
should call 464-3970 to get a new
lock.

Clothes

FOUND: A blue blazer, blue
button-down shirt, and black san-
dals were left in E1 Rodeo by an
extra last week. To claim these
items, call 464-3970.

Film

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will close out the 1992-1993
season with the presentation of Night
on Earth (USA, 1992), directed by
Jim Jarmusch. An all-star cast fea-
tures Winona Ryder and Gena
Rowlands with music byTom Waits.
Showings will be at 8:05 pm on
Friday, May 14 and Saturday, May
15. As always, there is no charge for
admission.

Survey

Students are encouraged to par-
ticipate in an alcohol survey this
week. Please obtain a copy at the
Student Health Service, Mrs.
Calkins’ office, or Dean Howison’s
office. Surveys will also be avail-
able at the Co-op during lunch on
Thursday and Friday.

Women's Forum

Women’s Forum, which usually
meets on Sunday, will be meeting on
Monday, May 17 at 6:00 pm in Ar-
lington Women’s Center. Professor
Novackw ill present, “Images of men
and women in advertising.” All are
welcome!

1 r

I . ;.'.z.‘Jt.L.'..‘l.t/

-‘\rti‘it t'i*'rr~ -1“?

 

. them in the house for the landlord.

(J1-.“..J '..l.) ..-. .

General Notes are compiled ‘by Sarali iV_LVyattV

t14';Ii.t'

Speech

Former Phi executive editor Ri-
chard J. Pelt’/. will have a public
presentation entitled “Context and
Analysis of the Stephen Schmidt
Case and Colegiacion Obligatoria
in Costa Rican Joumalism” on Mon-
day in Reid 203 at 4:30 p.m. The
public is invited.

Yard Sale

Attention Seniors: Do you need
to get rid of your household items
before graduation? 1 am seeking
donations for a yard sale; 1 am able
to pay for some items. Doii’t leave

Call Mike at 463-7501.

Infirmary

There will be no sick call in the
Student Health Center for May 31.
The infirmary will be open, but
there will not be any walk-in sick
calls in the morning or appoint-
ments to see the physician in the
afternoon.

Letters

Letters to the editor may be sent
to the Phi office in room 208 of
University Center. All submissions
will be printed in the order received.
All submissions are due Tuesday at
noon. Anonymous submissions will
not be printed.

Live Drive

Anyone interested in driving or
coordinating for Live Drive please
call Binky at 463-4917.

‘J . l , ,,
mt. ii.|xil .l.4.3.'.t.t-.1...

ill’-"

.“ p nix’ .» ',‘.j‘,..

  
       
   
   
     
 

immediately.

Student Body Notice

Rumors of an assault near duPont Hall last Wednesday

. have been circulating around campus. The Dean of Sttidents

office and University Security said an assault has not been
reported and can not be confirmed.

Director of Security Mike Young said if anyone has

information about an assault, Security should be contacted

  

gizes for the error.

Correction

The staff box in the May 6, 1993 issue of The Ring-turn Phi
should have read Sports Editor, Sarah Gilbert. The Phi apolo-

Now that your Freshman year is almost over,
what was the best part of it?

Helen Chandler, Burlington, N.C.
“Winning ODACs with the tennis

tegni.”

David Meeker, Zanoni, Va.
“Definitely pledgeship.”

Lissa Cockrel, Evergreen, Colo.
“Living on my own.”

 

Robert Turner, Dallas, Tex.
“Playfare during Orientation.”

Chrissy Donnelly, Wayne, Penn.
“Free meals in the D-hall.”

 

Julian Montague, Wilton, Conn.
“When I learned who John Holmes

n

is. -

 

 

Music Review

Pyros break promise,
Cranberries wail soulfully

By REBECCA CRow
Phi Music Columnist

PORNO FOR PYROS
PORNO FOR PYROS
 “(Warner Bros.)

 

Throughout I992 Perry Farrell told interviewers
that his new band, Porno for Pyros, would make a clean
break from his work with Jane’s Addiction. Sometime
between the interviews and the recording sessions,
however, Farrell
forgot that state-
ment.

B e t w e e n
Farrell’s trade-

 

 

THE CRANBERRIES
EVERYBODY ELSE IS DOING

IT WHY CAN’T WE? _
(Island)

The sultry music of this Limerick, Ireland quartet
seems to justify the title of their debut LP. The
Cranberries are led by the sensuous vocalist Dolores
O’Riordan, whose soulful wailing conjures com-
parisons with rock divas like Harriet Wheeler (The
Sundays), Elizabeth Frazer (Cocteau Twins), and
fellow eountrywoman Sinead O’Connor.

Produced by music mastermind Stephen Street
(Smiths, Psychedelic Furs), the overall sound on the
LP is lush with an occasional jangling interlude.

 

FEATURES

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

I K i ' ' File Photo
The members of the eclectlc Aquarium Rescue Unit are Jimmy Herring, Col. Bruce Hampton, Apt.
0258, Matt Mundy, Otell Burbridge

mark voice The first

seethinv with singles,

constantTury and ‘ M ""‘°"""’ “Dreams” I .

    0 man s to roe an to

drum m e r ger,’’setup .

Stephen Perkin’s the debut’s

tribal drumbeats, theme of O

  of  w1th Col Bruce Ham ton

Jane’sAddicti0n wounded by 0 P

' can do nothing love. ,

but linger. New I rt . . T
companions, bassist Martyn LeNoble (Thelonious “Dreams” '
Monster) and guitarist Pete diStefano (K-38), bring , the Irish  e  E I   
little variation to the band. mr»..., «ea tzr «-7 4, :- vs, 9.»: .-uf‘ songstress

Therefore, the sound of Jane’s Addiction survives ' explores her
and an)’ dle‘h3Td fan will Pmbablb’ 10“? this LR _ C0I1mTY’S B JEANNE BRIGGS is set for a mid-May release. sic for three decades, during which

Unfortunately, the rest of the population may find deepest music roots. The powerful guitars carry y_ _ The group’s debut album, which time he has Put together three different
that Porno for Pyros falls shortofFarrell’s legacy. The O’Riordan’s_exploration of the need to hidefrom the PI” F°a“”°5 E‘m°r was recorded jive in Athens’ Georgia, groups, The Hamprorr Grease Band, '
lyrics lack the combination of anger, tenderness, and pains of reality in the illusion of dream. T metwith critical success, Rolling Stone TheNew1ceAge,;mdThe Late Bronze
ecstasy found on his earlier works. . “Linger” portrays the shattering of the dream he music of Colonel Bruce magazine gave the album four stars, Age.

The first singles “Cursed Female” and “Cursed world when a woman sees her lover with another Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue saying, ‘‘There’s a truly unique sensi— Colonel Bruce joined forces wiih
Male”exemplify the high—pitched screams and driving woman. “I’m in a misery,” cries ()’Riordan. “You Unit has been called a musical gumbo bilityatwork...Itrocks, swings,smacks, Atlanta locals Oteil Burbridge, Matt
guitars that carried Jane’s classics like “Pigs in Zen” know I’m such a fool for you/ You got me wrapped of blues, jazz, rock, country and bluc- clangs, walks, and runs, this music, Mundy,Jimmy Herring and Apt.Q258
and “Been Caught Stealing.” around your fInger/ Do you have to let it linger?” grass,and the Colonel himselfis known with its eyes rolled back in its head.” to form the Aquarium Rescue Unit in

“Pets” and “Packin’ .25” are strong songs with a In “Pretty” the band follows the self—affirming as the Godfather of Alternative Music. Anna Bentley, ’96, a Jazz DJ at 1987. , T
little more definition and individuality. “Packin’ .25.” tradition of Sinead O’Connor. “Waltzing Back” is The group’s self—proclaimed mission WLUR radio, said, “I first heard Colo- “When I hired these guys I looked
particularly draws on guitar rhythms from the Califor- the most jangly song‘ and also shares roots with is to “capture the joy and spirit of net Bruce whenlplayed him on one of for three things,” Hampton said. “Dis-
nia surf background of guitarist DiStefano. ()’Connor. Southern roots music,” and this Satur— my shows. I liked the sound —- it was position, intention and release. lwanted

The soon—to-be—released “Sadness” is a testament All twelve songs on E verybody Else is Doing I 2, day they will be working their magic upbeat.” sensitive playerswho could listen. We
to Farrell’s passionate frustration. “I got the devil in So Why Can’t We? feature the cries of a woman out at Zollman’s Pavilion. “I enjoy the lyrics — I find them never rehearse and, while we have a
me,” he screams. “lt’s just a cloud/ It’s sadness/ It’s whose love was abused by men. Luckily, the wistful The AquariumRescue Unithasbeen entertaining,” Bentley said. “His mes— format, I’m not sure what it is.”
just a cloud/ then I find eompassion/ and I f1nd/ it andinsistent songs don’tneed to fear abuse front the touring withtheirself-titledalbumsince sage is somewhatenvironmental,andI Col. Bruce and the Aquarium Res- ‘
vanishes.” Let’s hope these lyrics don’t predict too music world. The Cranberries’ debut is a powerful it debuted in early ’92, and their new appreciate that.” cue Unit play at Zollman’s Saturday,
much of the alternative music guru’s future. demonstration of lyrical beauty. album, titledMirrorsofEmbarassment, ColonelBn.1ce has been making mu- May 15 at 8 p.m.

. at . . ’~«“ t
0

    Hamsfeeter

MEANS LOW PRICES

      

  

WORK AT

NOW HIRING FOR

P.C. REGUIAR OR TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE DIET

IT'S VERY CLEAR SPARKIJNG

FIAVORED BEVEIlAGE...... 33.8 OZ.

HEAD & SHOUIDERS

 

.69

' . .
REDUCED PRICE E B  ° I;gIilMIP($& 3/ 95.
    ........................   0
  OUR MYRTLE BEACH BREYER5
CHUCK I AND HILTON HEAD ICE 2/ no
a LOCATIONS ARE CREAM ............ .. HALF GAL.

DANDRUFF A 299'
SHAMPOO... ........... .. ll 02.  

VALUABLE COUPON I,

6.12 OZ. IN WATER

BUMBLE   BEE I
CI-IUNI( LIGI-If TUNA .

I I
I
I

THE suMMER.
IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON
HEAD LocATIoNs oR MAIL
APPLICATION TO: st,  

 
 
  
 
        
      
  

 
  

 V -  - ~ -  _ , JERRYALLEN 

  A     T   it      t14‘c"I'tt.‘sI.'§‘II'it'§'.II‘~°¢;
WHOLE  = " ‘- SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288

5M ma  

     
 

   
 
 
   

WITH
COUPON

  LB. . AGRE—°m  .

FIRST or -THE SEASON
VIDALIA SWEET

9'57 P595’ 03 I
ONIONS  

PEPSE COLA EACH I PER BUNCH

2 mm   | BUTTER FRESH

    

REDUCED
PRICE

$10.00 Minimum Purchase. wﬂﬂ Mm
M.,'t‘?5?f3‘9§"°’ '2' "W COUPON coupon
I PLU 2790 PLU 2770

PEP-‘3";',_  .tllltlttl_|ltll_ 

                                  

 

' Ma I8, I993 

May l8,l 3. In Lexington 530,35 ‘

Prices Effective Through

Prices In This Ad Eliective Wednesday, May l2 Tltrou It Tues
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. Noriega

Id To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal rbod Stamps.

 

  

TheiRing-tum Phi, May 13, 1993

       
     
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

. * -7 By Mitrr DILLARD
Phi Staff Writer

This year, 70 Washington and
Lee students worked with Rockbridge
County children in a Big Brother-Big
Sister program at four area elementary

. scﬂools.

Brandon Neblett, '93, chairperson
of the program, said, “The most impor-
tant thing l’ve learned is how to inter-
act and deal with kids. An eight-year-
old sees things differently than an adult,

' and l’ve had toyleam how to be patient

an@ supportive and how to tell when
my younger brother wants to talk.”

W&L students who volunteer to be
a big brother or sister to a Rockbridge
County child generally spend time with
their younger sibling on the weekends
or after school.

Neblett said, “I spend about three
hours a week with my little brother. I’ll
go over to the little guy’s house and
we’ll play basketball or go to Sweet
Things foran ice cream cone. He lives
out of town, and he loves running
around the countryside and exploring
an3 showing me the things that he’s
found.”

One advantage of the program is
that W&L students volunteer to be a
Big Brother or Sister for the year, and

a successful

often students will spend two years or
more with the same child.

“To have an impact on a kid, it has
to be a long-terrn commitment,” ex-
plained Neblett. “When I lirst started,
I realized that you can’t give a couple
of weeks and expect to make a differ-
ence. The biggest thing that we em-
phasize is continuity. It’s important to
fit into the kid’s life.”

“When my little brother is psyched
to have me
show up at his
school or be
with his family
and friends I
know I am hav-
ing a positive

effect on his _ ‘
life," said family and friends I
Neblett. '

..1amab1m know I am having a
fill avoid in his positive effect on his
llfe and Sh,°W life,’ said Neblett.
him what being

..JL__j._.___
‘When my little
brother is psyched to
have me show up at his
school or be with his

W&L students affect littl

someone cares about him.”

‘‘I learned a lot myself and how
important the small things were that I
learned as a child,” Shirley said. “My
younger brother is ten years old, and
he’d never been taught how to ride a
bike or shoot a basketball, so I taught
him and he helped me be more pa-
tient.”

Will Graham, ’94, said, “What l’ve
gained is seeing how rural Rockbridge
County residents
live.”

“My little
brother lives in an
isolated area. I
think my younger
brother really looks
up to me because
l’ve shown him
things that he’s
never done before.
For instance, we
went to the library
one night and rode

adult is all about. I see someone who is
happier now than when I first met him,”
Neblett said.

Other W&L participants have had
similar experiences with their younger
brothers and sisters.

Eric Shirley, ’95, said, “It was en-
joyable to make a young child feel that

up and down the el-
evatorbecause 'ne’d neverbeen in one,”
Graham said.

Miriam Neel, ’94, is one of the few
women who has a younger brother.
She said, “It’s a challenge to come up
with things to do with him because he
is such a ball of energy. I worried
because I thought he’d do better with a

e kids’ lives

big brother, but it has worked out well.
He looks at things differently. When I
am with him, lsee the world from a ten-
year-old perspective and it’s interest-
ing.”

Margie Page, a guidance counselor
at Central Elementary in Lexington,
said, “l’ve been working with the pro-
gram for four years and we’ve gotten
more and more people from W&L to
work with us.” “Some students simply
call and ask ifwe need tutors,”she said.

“The kids are very grateful for the
attention they get. They talk about
their big brothers and sisters and it
really does make a difference,” Page
said.

Neblett said, “The great thing about
this year is that we were swamped with
freshmen and ifwe can get them to stay
with the kids for four years then the
possibilities are endless. Their'expo-
sure tothe different side ofthe world by
dealing with children in an economi-
cally depressed area like Rockbridge
County is something that a lotof W&L
students don’t get.”

“There’s no doubt that an experi-
ence like this helps you be an under-
standing adult and a better parent,” said
Neblett. “It’s been hard to organize
things this year with the big increase in
big brothers and sister, but I think we’ve
done a good job.”

A collection of
artwork by John D.
Morgan, on display
in the DuPont Art
Gallery, features
the use of religious
icons like the Ma-
donna to explore
artistic
such as repetition,
reproduction, the
valueofsolitaryob-
jects. Morgan ex-
periments with the
rearrangement of
images to force his
viewers to look at
reproduction differ-
ently and explore

‘the collective un-
conscious.

themes

~ Hardware, "Paint and Related Items

Upen Mon.-“Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6

Sun. 1-5 p.m.
463-2186

 

E. NeIson,St., Lexington

 

  

(305) 949-2380

1/2Rack -$5.99
Queen Cut $11.95

Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served
24 hrs. a day.

4 mile_s North on Route 11
0 We accept Visa, Mastercard, Choice and

O

 

Shell 703-463-9730 ' - - v ‘ V 3 
*‘  ' ZZZ1IV;7_;I'ZZIIZ'$--.—'?"""' """"""' W-
. ' _ . | »
Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? , STUDENT SERVICES.BOX 1792li.PLAllTA'f.I0ll.FL 3331 _ di , _
, -' ' v  . , ' CIU OtI'OnICS
Now you can, have two of the most recognized and  MA51-ERCARDQ cmdu ‘AUDIO . VIDEO . cm srmso
. accepted crcdltvcards inthe worid...visao and Mastucanio I V.‘ '“’a‘_ '“"5"°’ - : DEMON SONY
credit can'.ls..."ln your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cafds_ Enclosed nnd $5 which is 100% refundable ifnot ADCOM , WNE
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNE_D DOWN BEFORE’, I approved immediately. ‘ ' ' . - - - " TOSHIBA MARANTZ
VlSA0and MastcrCard0 the credit cards you I _ ‘ . __ 3  .. ' :g';ToN. g‘g’Fﬁ’NmvE
d°5°"“° ‘"9 "°°d 7-°"T‘ 'D'B°°E'§1sEg$ZA'§Arg§rNT ' NAME  '  .. : ‘KLIPSCH BAZOOKA I
STOREs—TUlTlON— — ‘ ' 
EMERGENCY cAsH—ricKms—REAsg;xzténNArNrs— : ADDRESS A  I | ggmggtgggggrggw ‘
HO,'I'ELS—MOTELS-GAS—-C ALS-— ' _ " _  ,_ _ - TON DEPARTMENT
REPAIRS--AND TO BUILD YOUR cm-zorr RATING! » : CITY _ STATE_— ZIP -—.—-—— : ; 
‘  - '  3,. ._._ ‘Sf: ' - MASTERCARD/VISAIDISCOVER
u “"3 - . . .  ~- _ -
°" “qr: No credit ' : SIGNATURE _ _ . _ _ : (800) 363 4:638. ,
f tar '.
v\:.t'.‘!-==:*:te«. "° ‘°°"'"’ "°°°‘"- . "°’*"l‘.:';'.‘;°.'...,"’ . .  
go 9 Approval absolutely guaranteed so . smug: Association ‘O0./3 °u‘nA,‘"-‘Em | 275°°9 9" R ' °"‘° °
I. __________~___.___________'

    

WET FUN CHARTERS

Vacation, Sailing Adventures

Let. Frank and Anne Show you the Bahamas. we’ll take
you sailing, sight-seeing, snorkeling, and more. Come
vacation"with us in the Bahamas.

Family Tours . . . Groups of Friends. . . Educational Trips

at LEE-HIS

Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday
Night 11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
_ All-U-Can Eat $4.99
' Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2
p.m. A11-U-Can Eat $4.99
Wednesday Night BBQ Night -choice of
potato & vegetable
. Who1eRack- $10.95
‘ Saturday Night Prime Rib

    
     
 

4  |§b.a'd'

      
          
     
     
   
       
     
       
         
      
    
     
         
         
     
   

  

 

King Cut $13.95

 

Photos by Bethany Smith, The Fling-turri Pn.

VARNSER & POLE

115 S. Main $1., Lexington

For your extra pieces of furniture "

 .7‘Fumiture«Dealers '

463-2742

/ .

3’

S

 

 

\

Winters

All

i':>.3N,. Main sf.‘ 1:: -
‘ Lexinton, VA 24450
//////

   

\

Women’s clothing.

//

cuppa

.   1' 
 f (703)463-5988

//// '0

/////// /////

Nationally Famous Men’s and Women’s Activewear,
S ortswear, and Shoes. 50% to 80% 
veryday '- GUARANTEED! We receive. ‘ '. f I '~_
merchandise fromAmerica’s‘ most famous mail ' 1 
order houses. New shipments Every Week! . ‘ ‘ -

It1- Store Wareliouse Sale on Nationally’ Famous
Catalogue Men’s and Women_’s Wear." 2 i _ . i

There are reductions from 25- 75% on Men’siand ’

Famous knit to s for women - re 

Now $3.00. Se ected Henley Shirts reduced, to $3.00.
Selected Men’s and Women’s Sweaters - ‘ .

regularly $40 -. reduced to $7.99
‘ Lexington‘-
Downtown (Robert Lee Bldg.)
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 9:30-5:30

    
 
 
 
  
   
 

 

    
 

\ 

..

or

 
     

 

lyi$18 -’

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 1
1 Broken bone
protectors
6 Very happy

10 Sings

14 "Aida." e.g.

1 5 Ireland

16 Kind of
sandwich

17 Tanker

18 Young fellows

19 Therefore

20 Raw vegetable
dishes

22 Tropical tree

24 Anna went here

26 University
advisers,

27 Erases

31 Fishing pole

32 Frighten

33 Teases

35 Bishop's
territory

38 Insignificant

39 Hollow stems

40 Heavenly object

 

41 First woman ©1:"93“Tg:>urF;e Maui: Services. Inc. 05/13/93
42 Rot RFD 9 5 939"“ t .
43 Fm high Last Week 5 Puzzle Solved
44 Male turkey 6Solidify _ F L u 3 g 5 A 3 pIA]H |
45 Bridge bid 7 Don't believe
. . . R J P E PA I. A M E D
47 Formidable rival him E B D N ’ E t L L -L A M A
51 Money for the 8 Zeal _,_..i.._ - -
landlord 9Pies and D E N | E l E r H E L
52 Position of cakes M E L R E M 0 V A L
superiority 10 Masticated _E A 3 3___ 5 F A R A L;
54 Large desert 11 Long-legged A G I L 5 J u 3 E A 5 R A
58 Orchestra areas bird To K E R A N E R 0 3 Ti‘
59 B.A. word 12 Special —— -
61 Likea vocabulary 5 Al 5 A c K 3 c .51 A V E
membrane 13 Crucifixes ;- _1_A_B E _K Y 9 A 3 l E 9
62 Old one: Ger. 21 Droop ; s E s A M _ S A ll 
giic-£3090” 93"°TY  Sleelves f  1i_O l\ P S . E ’ S 0 1
me up asure o r
65 Subtraction length  E _ g 2 g E H c  g
word 27 Famous ltalian ' — ' ' '
ssswo.-d family TEARY TAGS R E LY
67 Ginger -— 28 94 05/13/93
29 Window part 39 Think 48 Author Zola
DOWN 30 Take an oath 40 —- Hemisphere 49 Baseball gloves
1 Dove sounds 34 Loafer 42 Flower 50 Discard
2 Samoan port 35 injure with a 43 Musical pieces 53 Cigar end
3 Vend knife 44 Becomes 55 Inter —
4 Government 36 Member of nervous 56 Grate
department ' royalty 46 — Moines 57 God of war
5 Small fish 37 Gaelic 47 Asian country 60 Observe

WLUR Weekly Broadcast Schedule

Morning Mag (Rock): Monday - Friday, 6:30-9:30 a.m.

Jazz: Monday 9-1 1 a.m., Tuesday/Thursday/Sunday 9-l2p.m., Wednesday
- Friday 2-3:30 p.m., Saturday 9-12 p.m. p
Country: Monday — Friday 12-2 p.m. Saturday—Sunday 3-6 p.m.
Breakthrough: Monday - Friday 3:30-6 p.m.

Classic Rock: Wednesday 9-12 p.m., Saturday 9 a.m.—12:30 p.m., Sunday
12-3 p.m.

Classical: Tuesday/Wednesday/Friday 9-1 I p.m., Monday — Thursday 6-9
p.m., Friday 6-8 p.m., Sunday 9 a.m.-12 p.m., 6:30-9:30 p.m.
Inspirational: Monday 2-3130 p.m., Friday 12-1 :30 a.m., Saturday/Sunday
6:30-9 p.m.

Dance/Rap: Tuesday 2-3:30 p.m., Friday 8-I2 p.m., Saturday 1-2:30 p.m.
Third Ear: Monday — Friday 12-1:30 a.m., Sunday 12-1:30 p.m.

HAMRIC & SHERIDAN J EWELERS
' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT

For Rent:

1 In Lexington, available June 15
1 4 B.R. home, 3 B.R. home,

1 B.R. duplexapt. Call Mike
Flint at Whiteside Realty 463-1187 J

\\

1-.

V

1870 Washington College Diploma
 - signed "R.E. Lee”

- — Signatures:

Fitzhugh Lee RE. Lee. Jr.

M. Miley John Letcher
' Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate. hand-colored ‘ . V
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art .
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
. Mary and George Washington pieces

  

4.East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

I lllllllllilllﬁ
  lllilllllll

Open Monday -,Saturday

10 a.m. - 5:30 p'.'m_. 

 

 

 

 

 

11 W. N elson Street , Robby J ones
Lexington, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022
_‘.

1:.

 

  
 

Last Week:

MLax-—W&L 9, Roanoke 8;
W&L"18, VMI 3
WLax—Trenton St. 18, W&L 4

S

PAGE 6

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK 8: FIELD

 
  
  

This Week:

M&WTennis—at NCAA Champs.
MLax—at Ohio Wes. 5/16 '

MAY 13, 1993

   
     
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
    

 

     

Douoguih does it again for W&L lax

By KE1'lII GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Twenty-four hours after walloping VMI in the Lee—Jackson
Lacrosse Classic, the Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
earned its third-ever bid for the eight—team NCAA Division 111
tournament. '

The Generals (12-2) will play at Ohio Wesleyan University on
Sunday at 1:00 p.m. The Bishops (10-1) are the tournament’s fourth-
seeded team.

Although Washington and Lee’s two losses this season came
against two of the tournaments’ field, the Generals defeated fourth-
ranked Roanoke College, 9-8, at Wilson Field lastThursday. The win
gave them the Old Dominion Athletic Conference title and eamed the
team the bid that would otherwise have likely gone to Roanoke.
Senior goaltender Brian Murtagh had one of his best perfor-

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   

Photo by Darran Winslow, The Ring-tum Phi
Senior Wiemi Douoguih dominates the field in the
Generals’ May 6 victory over Roanoke.

  

mances, stopping 19 Maroons’ shots in front of thecrowd of 2700
spectators- Senior captain John Hunter scored three times in his final
home game.

W&L raced to a 5-1 lead in the second quarter and never trailed.
Roanoke closed to within 5-3, but a Washington and Lee score just
before half-time provided the Generals with a three-goal lead.

W&L held a 9-6 lead late in the game that put the hometown fans
in a celebratory mood. Although the Maroons made things interest-
ing with two more scores—the second with 15 seconds left—the White
and Blue ran out the clock for its sixth conference win and the title.

The championship was the second in the past two years for W&L.
in the ODAC’s first eight seasons, Roanoke went undefeated versus
conference opponents and won each title. However, the Maroons
have been held to only two ()DAC crowns in the last five years.

The matchup with Ohio Wesleyan is considered an excellent draw
for the Generals, who entered the Roanoke game ranked tenth in the
nation. Washington College (1 1-3), who defeated W&L 12-10 ear-
lier this season, has the unenviable task of opening against top-seeded
Salisbury State (13-0). The winner will face the winner of the W&L-
Ohio Wesleyan game in the semi-finals.

The Generals appear to be entering the tournament playing their
best lacrosse of the season.The team’s last three victories were versus
Division I Mount St. Mary's College, Roanoke, and Division I VMI.
The 18-3 win at VMI’s Alumni Memorial Field last Saturday was the
biggest blowout in the Lee-Jackson Classic’s six-year history.

In that game, Generals’ senior attackman Wiemi Douoguih tied
the nine-year-old school record for goals in a game with eight. He has
scored 25 goals in W&L’s last five contests. This week, Douoguih
was declared the ODAC’s Player of the Year, the second General to
receive that honor.

son Classic at VMl’s Alumni Memorial Field.

Next stop for women’s hoops?

Only time will tell as W&L basketball team achieves varsity status

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

After becoming the winningest of the three college-level bas-
ketball squads in the booming metropolis of Lexington, Virginia,
where’s a girl to go? The Final Four? Disneyland? Varsity‘?

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team, for now,
will take the third option with open arms. After only three years,
senior Courtney Smith’s brainchild has become a winning club,
going 7-5 during the 1992-93 season.

Next year, the brand-new team will play 21 games as a Division
111 independent and, in 1994-95, will join the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

History professor Barry Machado and Earl Edwards of the
W&L computer center served as volunteer coaches for the fledg-
ling team.

“Weset as our goal to get the ball rolling,” Machado said. “We
hoped to show that there was a genuine interest.

“The conventional wisdom was that [W&L women] weren’t
hard—nosed enough to play basketball. They demonstrated beyond
question that there was a- readiness to develop, improve and
compete.”

Not only did the Generals compete, they succeeded. They
rounded out their season with a second place at the Virginia-North
Carolina Tournament at Mary Baldwin College, losing to nation-
ally ranked Meredith College.

“We had a few shaky games, but we came on strong at the end
of the season,” said Machado.

Washington and Lee is conducting a nation-wide search for a
coach who will take the responsibility for both the women’s
volleyball and basketball teams, to be named June 1. The new
coach will have a strong base (though wholly made up of walk-
ons), as only one current player, Smith, will graduate this year.

“Having a coach who can actually recruit players will help,’
said Machado.

Basketball, as the eighth women's varsity sport at W&L, hopes
to rival the meteoric rise of the rest of the Lady Generals.

“This is an exciting time for W&L athletes; if [the basketball
team] can measure up to the maturity of the women’s lacrosse
team, it will be well worth it,” said Machado.

The maturity level of the women’s basketball team, even with
its present club status, should not be underestimated.

“What stood out was how many players on the team made great
strides,” said Machado. “We genuinely looked like a basketball
team at the end of the season.”

7

Sogpwve 3a.om£TH£
W!NNW¢5l£5T 'r£Am no
L‘I'—$4NﬁTbN- HON wt-MT
AR?-350% faowéfb Do?

I passing ability, I don’t think you can keep him from getting it," said

Guilford College assistant coach Mike Ketchum thinks that Ohio
Wesleyan’s best chance to win is to prevent Douoguih from gegting
the ball. At the same time, though, he doesn’t think it will be possible.

“You have to deny him the ball, but with his size and the team’s

Ketchum. ‘

Douoguih’s scoring surge has put him into a position to reach
some ofW&L’s long-standing records. His 47 goals this season are
the most by a General since Rob Morgan set the present record '53
goals in 1975. Douoguih’s 72 points are the sixth highest single-
season total for a General, 13 short of the record which was also set
in 1975, by Don Carroll. The senior is also just two goals short of
becoming only the fifth General to net 100 for a career.

Joining Douoguih with All-()DAC honors are Hunter, Murtagh,
senior Josh Levinson, and senior Kirk Olsen. It is the second time that
five Generals have achieved that distinction. V

The Generals and Ohio Wesleyan are no strangers to one anofner.
The Bishops knocked W&L out of both of its previous appearances
in the Division III toumament.

After the Generals defeated Ohio Wesleyan during the 1987
regular season, the Bishops routed W&L 17-4 in the toumament’s
semi-finals. In ’91, Ohio Wesleyan defeated W&L both during the
regular season and in the toumament’s quarter—finals. The Bishops
have won the last five meeting between the two.

Although both schools’ offensive, defensive, and goaltending
statistics are very even, the Bishops tallied wins over Division 1
Michigan State, 13-1 1, and Division I power Notre Dame, 13-8.

However, Ketchum thinks W&L might come away with a win.

“[W&L] has better athletes,” he said. “They’re deeper and faster.

    
   
 

  

  



  
   

ondalc - - on ck it

   ‘ Lexington Bike Shop I

  

   
   

Jansport daypacks and book bags ' I ,

INTERNATIONAL

E M P LO Y M E NT
Make money teaching basic

1 give them a good chance [to winl.”

   

Photo by Darran Winslow, The Ring-tunbPhi
Douoguih shoots past his VMI opponent, scoring one of his school-record eight goals in Saturday’s Lee-Jack-

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

W()MEN’S
LACROSSE

Afterits meteoric rise to glory,
the Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team fell at the
murderous hands of f irst-ranked
Trenton State in the Generals’
first-ever National Collegiate
Athletic Association Division 111
tournament appearance.

W&L fell 18-4 to the Lions,
after holding them scoreless for
nearly 14 minutes in the first
half. A 7—lrun by Trenton St. at
the close of that half, however,
was the Generals’ downfall, and
they never recovered.

Senior Lisa Dowling scored
both of W&L’ssccond-half goals
for a school-record season total
of 81.

TRACK AND FIELD

Washington and Lee
trackstcrs ran away with it all at
University of North Carolina
Saturday.

Not only did both the men’s
400- and l600—meter relays teams
achieve National Collegiate Ath-
letic Association national provi-
sionally qualifying times, but the
1600 relay broke a school record
that has stood since 1939.

As if the men hadn’t done
enough, freshman Josephine
Schaef f er continued on her head-
long rush to track and field glory
by bettering her provisionally
qualifying time in the 10,000-
meter run.

Schaeffer shaved 36 seconds
off her previous time, obtained at
the Duke Invitational in April,
finishingin 37:34.9l.She willbe
notified May 23 whether or not
she will race at the National com-
petition at Baldwin-Wallace Col-
lege in Berea, Ohio.

She placed third in the race.

Juniors Scott Covey and Tohn.

Robinson, sophomore Hayne
Hodges and freshman Dax
Mahoney need only to decrease
their time of42.46 seconds in the
400 relay by 46 one-hundredths
of a second to qualify automati-
cally. ’

“We have a chance to run the
automatic qualifying time if we
get our hand-offs a little faster,”
said coach Norris Aldridge. “i
think we have a good shot.”

Equally amazing was the 160()
relay team of senior David
Phillips, sophomore Grant
Cowell, Mahoney and Robinson,
whose time of 3:18.45 in the
longer relay was better than a
time of 3:19.4 set by the 1939
squad in the mile relay.

“They ran well,” Qaid
Aldridge. “If they get in [to the
NCAAtoumament],they’llhave
a shot at making the top eight,
which they have to do to make
All-American.”

TENNIS ‘

Members of both the men’s
and women’s tennis teams will
be flying north in the coming
week to compete against the best
of the National Collegiate Ath-

» letic Association Division II . _
Sophomore Marilyn Ba er

will compete tomorrow and Mon-
day at Carleton College in St.
Paul, Minnesota. This will be
Baker’s second straight trip to
the championship.

Junior Robby MacNaughton
and freshman Peter Hamm8nd
will travel to Kalamazoo, Michi-
gan to compete May 17-24 in the
men’s competition.

MacNaughton will compete
in the singles portion of the tour-
nament, and he and Hammond
will join forces to play in The
doubles tournament.

YOU DON’T HAVE
TO DRINK

463.7969 conversational English abroad.

We’ll make you look good!
Come to us for all of your design needs.
Ads, ﬂyers, logos, resumes, faxes, and quick copies.

E PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX #: 463 - 6918 lg
125 w. NELSON ST. - LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

        

130 sf. Main St. Mon.-Firi. 9-'5/Sat. 49-12 Noon

 

Caring, stable single female
school teacher desires to
adopt a baby. Financially secure.
Can provide loving 8: fun family.
Call collect 804-572-8403 or
write P. O. Box 655, South Boston.
VA 24592.

Japan & Taiwan. Make up to

Many provide room 8: board +
other benefits! No previous
training or teaching certificate
required! For employment
ramcall: ‘
(206) 632-1146 Ext. J5342

$2,000 to $4,000+ per month.

TO RIDE DRUNK. '

Medicine can affect your balance, co
ordination, and vision as much as
alcohol. After drinking or taking med-
ication, don’t ride.That‘s

the best safety prescription. § '
Motoncvcts sltrm rouunmoii 9

  

I

THE Lil\él‘./l*_~{~liIlTY' LIBFIARY

‘yvAsHtN‘<,:t'0N 3.

LEXENGTON, VA 24450 —

mmztn “

LEE UNIVERSITY

‘.
1.

Spiders and Rats, Oh My!
Becca Opens Tonight

All American
Marilyn Baker Becomes W&L’s First

Woman Tennis All-American

0

Ultra ‘tlttng-tum [ﬂirt

VOLUME 92, NO. 27

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 20, 1993

English Prof’s contract not renewed

By SARAH GILBERT
4 Phi Staff Writer

English Department members voted not to
renew the contract of Assistant Professor
Demaree Peck last week.

Peck’s review, a standard step in the process
oﬁecuring tenure-track professors, came after
her third year of teaching at Washington and
Lee, The decision is subject to the approval of
Dean of the College John Elrod. The eight
tenured English professors extensively exarn-
ined a ﬁle of materials prepared by Peck to
demonstrate her conformity to the guidelines
segforth in the faculty handbook.

Materials considered by the English depart-
ment included Peck’s published work, her un-
finished manuscripts, teacher evaluations re-
turned by the students who took her classes
during the past academic year, open letters
which were solicited from her students, evalu-
ations by the members of the department who
each sat in on one of her classes, and miscella-
neous ‘information such as her requests for
grants and plans for summer research.

Peck said that she was surprised and disap-
pointed about the decision.

“I read my teacher evaluations and they .

werevery strong,” she said. ‘‘I think I have a
strong teaching record.”
But other professors in the department de-

cided to the contrary.

“There was a consensus on what we were
observing and how we were observing it,” said
Department Head Edwin Craun, who cited con-
fidentiality and refused to reveal the speciﬁc
reasons for the department’s decision.

“[Students] are not privy to know the rea-
sons for personnel decisions, but [students] are
privy to know the values which are included in
arriving at those decisions,” he said.

University policy identifies three qualities
of the ideal candidate for reappointment or
promotion: teaching effectiveness, intellectual
activity and achievement, and academic citi-
zenship. Each of these categories is qualified by
five or six definitive considerations to assist

Two guilty

department members in their decisions.

Craun also noted that.it was impossible to
determine the exact motivations for an
individual’s ﬁnal judgment after a series of
group discussions.

“There isn’t necessarily a consensus, there
is just a vote,” he said.

Elrod has been provided _witl1 all of the
review materials and the recommendation of
the English department.

“I haven’t communicated yet with Miss
Peck,” said Elrod. He did not comment on the
decision he planned to make.

With the decision following so close on the
heels of the department’s decision not to renew
the contract of English professor John Lynch,

who is finishing his final term at W&L, many
students voiced concerns that the department’s
decision was based on factors other than those
in the faculty handbook.

“It’s bullshit that this department is firing
people who don’t agree with the ‘good-ole-
boy’ system,” said freshman English major
John Branam. “Lynch and Peck offered an
opportunity for [the department] to renew it-
self.”

Senior English major Shannon Comer, one
of Peck’s students, said that she could not guess
the motivations for the decisions because of the
University’s confidentiality policy.

CI See PECK, Page 6

Beta gets fall term

of HVs
this year

By THOMAS Hraspos
Phi News Editor

‘Two Washington and Lee students
were found guilty of honor violations
this year, as opposed to five last year.

“Last year was a big year,” said Ex-
ecutive Committee President Josh
MacFarland. 1 “[The "number of guilty I
verdicts] is usually about two or three or
f .17

('aHMacFarland said the EC performed
approximately 12 investigations of pos-
sible violations of the Honor System this
past year, which is down from 25 last
year. ,

- MacFarland said the alleged viola-
tions were reported by “an even mix of
stﬂdents and faculty members.”

Community members did not report
anypotential violations, said MacFarland.
None of the alleged violations reported to
the EC dealt with dishonorable conduct,
other than lying, cheating or stealing.

“Most of it has fallen under the gen-
eral heading of lying, cheating or steal-
ing,” said MacFarland.

The EC did not hear any cases regard-

social

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

Beta Theta Pi will participate
in all rush activities but will be
on social probation until January
1994.

The Student Affairs Commit-
tee voted unanimously to sup-
port the actions taken by Beta’s
House Corporation during
Alumni Weekend. 

Beta’s house corporation
placed the fraternity on social
probation for all of fall term, ex-
cept the two weeks prior to for-
mal rush. Interfraternity Council
President Curt Smith said during
rush Beta will be treated exactly
like the other fraternities.

Beta Chapter Advisor Farris

- Hotchkiss said one Beta was ex-
pelled from the fraternity, one
was suspended and one was put
on critical probation. Hotchkiss
saidthe fratemitymemberplaced
on critical probation was not in-
volved in the bottle throwing in-
cident on Beta ’s back porch on to
Red Square April 24.

The Beta suspended was an

Photo By Darran Winslow, The Fling-tum Phi

Catch it while you can

Professor Lamar Cecil and his class take advantage of a sunny day.
Good weather has become a treasured item in Lexington this spring,
between thunderstorms and downpours.

ing the recent thefts in the Law School
Library. MacFarland said several no-
tices were posted about the thefts, but no
honor violations were reported to the EC.
IMacFarland said the EC Advocates,
the law students assigned to represent
accused students in honor trials, have
been somewhat irate about the current
state of the Honor System. According to

probation

officer in the house when the
bottle throwing occurred, Smith
said, and he thinks the expelled
Beta was involved in the actual
bottle throwing.

Five students were involved
in the bottle throwing, two were
Betas and the rest were from other
houses, said Hotchkiss.

The action taken by Beta’s
House Corporation was not a di-
rect result of the bottle throwing
incident, Hotchkiss said.

“[Tl1e bottle throwing inci-
dent] was sort of the proverbial
straw that broke the camel‘s
back,” Hotchkiss said. “Essen-
tially the House Corporation felt
there had been a series of occur-
rences that were not leading in
the right direction, and the house
needed to get its act together.”

Smith said the IFC has told
Beta that the president or vice
president must accompany the
house manager on inspections
with Buildings and Grounds In-
spector Jim Boyd. The reason for
the additional ofﬁcer is for better
communication between Beta
and B&G, Smith said.

Dean of Students David

Howison said SAC felt further
action against Beta was not nec-
essary because of the action taken
by the House Corporation.

“Because it was decisive
we’re confident that the conduct
of the fraternity will improve and
Beta will make progress,”
Howison said. “We’re expecting
positive things next year.”

Howison said there is no pre-
cedent for a fraternity on social
probation coming in front of the
SAC for another hearing, but if it
didhappen, SAC wouldconsider
suspension. But, Howison said
he does not expect Beta to have
any further problems.

Smith said he was impressed
with the way Beta has handled
the situation.

“They've done a great job in
turning things around,” Smith
said.

Smith and Howison both said
increased Housing Corporation
activity is beneficial to all frater-
nities.

“The hope is when there are
problems the Housing Corpora-
tion will act so the SAC won’t
have to,” Howison said.

t’s a wrap

Lexington hosts Old South documentary

MacFarland, the advocates feel that the
Honor System should be entirely codi-
find and procedural.

“They, the advocates, feel that some
things should be changed,” said
MacFarland. “I don’t like [the Honor
System] very structured or procedural.
We’re not a court of law.”

MacFar1and defended the EC’s cur-
rest practices. He said in his four years at
W&L, the EC has been more than fair.

The advocates will have their chance
to affect Honor System policy next year,
when a review of the Honor System will
take place, said MacFarland.

MacFarland said he enjoyed serving
tlw student body over the past year.

“It’s been a great year this year,” he
said. “I’ve deﬁnitely enjoyed the experi-
ence... Next year will be a big year. There
will be a deﬁnite review of the Honor
System.”

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

There wasn’t a casting call, or cos-
tumes, but Lexington played host to
another ﬁlm crew earlier this week.

Van Ludwig Film Production came
to Lexington to film The Charrrre of
The Old South, a documentary that is
part of a series called Stars, Stripes
and 50 States. Martha Doss, of the
Lexington Visitors Bureau, said the
production crew ﬁlmed at Washing-
ton and Lee, Virginia Military Insti-
tute, Jackson House, Natural Bridge
and on Main Street Monday andTues-
day.

Doss said the production crew
found out about Lexington from the
Virginia Division of Tourism. She
said she made hotel reservations for
the production crew, but did not make

any other arrangements for them.

“I understand they just appeared at
Jackson House,” Doss said.

Brain Shaw, W&L’s Director of
Communications said he did not know
the film crew was coming until Visit-
ing Professor of Sociology Krzysztof
Jasiewicz brought them into his office
Monday afternoon.

“I don’t think they knew about us
until they saw Washington and Lee,”
Shaw said. “I think they kind of
stumbled on to us serendipitously.”

The production crew ﬁlmed on the
colonnade and extensively in Lee
Chapel, said Shaw.

Doss said she was told previous
broadcasts of the Stars, Stripes and 50
States series were viewed by 250 mil-
lion people in Europe and on the Dis-
covery Channel in the United States.

The documentary should air on the

Lacy to speak at W&L
law school graduation

From Staff Reports

One hundred and thirty-ei ghttl1ird—
year law students at Washington and
Lee’s School of Law expect to receive
their juris doctor degrees Sunday.

The ceremony for the university’s
138th graduating law class will begin
at 2:30 p.m. on the lawn in front of the
Lee House. In the event of rain, the
ceremony will be held in the Warner
Center. V

The Honorable Elizabeth B. Lacy,
the first woman named to the Virginia
Supreme Court, will deliver the ad-
dress at the commencement exercises.

Lacy received her B.A. from St.

Discovery Charmel next spring, Shaw
said.

Doss said Lexington’s recent pub-
licity is beneﬁcial to the city.

“It gets the name of Lexington Vir-
ginia in front of a lot more people’s
eyes than ever before,”Doss said.
“We’re still having people come in
from the Colonial Homes magazine,
and that came out in July 1991.”

Doss said the movie that will be
filmed on VMI’s campus, Conduct
Unbecoming: The Court Martial Of
Johnson Whitaker, will begin filming
June 10. Some cadets on campus for
summer session will be used as extras,
Doss said, but she does not know if
there will beacasting call. She saidthe
court room scene will require the most
extras and the ﬁlm crew does not know
whether the scene will be shot in Lex-
ington or Staunton.

Mary’s College in Notre Dame, Indi-
ana, her J.D. from the University of
Texas, and her L.L.M. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia.

A former elementary school teacher
before earning her law degrees, Lacy
became the 82nd justice on the Vir-
ginia Supreme Court in 1989. Prior to
that, she served on th 2 State Corpora-
tion Committee for four years and in
the state attorney general ofﬁces in

Photo By Siri Sitton, Special to The R/ng-tum Phi

Put ‘em up

Virginia and Texas. In the Virginia
office, she directed four sections, in-
cluding antitrust and consumer litiga-
tion, civil litigation claims and opin-
ions and regulations. She has ap-
peared before the U.S. Supreme Court
and several federal and state courts.

Tommy Morrison, “The Duke," spars with his partner
Wednesday In an open training session at VMI. Morrison
will fight George Foreman June 7 in Las Vegas. For more
about Morrison see page 8.

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 ﬁling-mm lﬁlri

Founded September 18, 1897

Did anybody
bother to ask
the students?

In a little over a week Professor John Lynch will leave W&L,
probably forever. In a little over a year Professor Demaree Peck
will also leave W&L. The disturbing fact here is not so much that
they are both English professors, but that both seem to have
inspired their students, but are being let go regardless.

Shouldn‘t the impact a professor has on his or her students be
the mostimportant factor in determining that professor’ s worth to
the university? The question deos not only go out to the English
department, but to every academic department and administrator.

On a campus that is generally apathetic, students managed to
organize a sit-in for Professor Lynch, and posted Captain, 0’
Captain signs all over campus. Doesn’t that mean anything to the
people in charge?

But, to blame this all on the English Department would be
foolish. They are following university set guidelines for evaluat-
ing professors. Professors Peck amd Lynch could have been part
of any other department on campus and the very same thing might
have happened.

This is where it gets cloudy. Professor Peck was known to have
publicly pledged support for Professor Lynch. Did this affect the
English Departrnent’s decision? .

We will probably never know. Although students have a right
to know what criteria their professors are judged on, they do not
have a right to know what happens behind closed doors in a
conﬁdential review of a professor’s contributions to the W&L
community. The debate cannot be put to rest unless an English
Department member would break conﬁdentiality, which is clearly
immoral and out of the question. —

The debate rests in the hands of Dean Elrod. He has the
recommendation of the English Department and all the materials
in Professor Peck’s ﬁle. We would like to ask Dean Elrod to pay
particular attention to student opinion. One student went so far as
to say that she had learned more from Professor Peck than she had
learned from any other professor on campus. Similar comments
were heard from other students. When this many students are
vocal about a beloved professor, it should be taken into consider-
ation by any party making decisions about that professor. After all,
professors are invited to Washington and Lee so that they might
shape the future of the students they teach. The students are telling
the English Department that these professors are doing a good job
of that. lt’s time to listen.

What’s the secret?

This week, a Phi staff member was assigned to write a story on
renovations to Reid Hall. At the time of the assignment, it seemed
like a straightforward story: just call Frank Parsons and Larry
Broomall to get the scoop. Unfortunately, it’s never quite that
simple.

Parsons told the Phi staffer that plans for the Journalism School
renovation were not deﬁnite. At the same time, the people who
work in Reid Hall told the reporter that they were pretty sure about
which ofﬁces were moving to El Rodeo and which ofﬁces were
remaining in the building.

Parsons and Broomall still stood by their story that nothing was
definite, saying a proposal for the renovations would be made this
weekend at the Board of Trustees’ meeting. Are we to believe that
Parsons and Broomall are going to formulate a report forthe Board
of Trustees sometime between now and this weekend?

What’s the big secret, guys? We’re not talking about a vital
national security issue here._ lt’s just "a few offices moving
around—lt’s not a big deal.

Needless to say, the story didn’t run. There was too much
unconﬁrmed conﬂicting information between the administration
and the people who work in Reid Hall. I bet the Journalism School
professors are interested to see what Parsons and Broomall have
in mind for the J-School.

We hope it’s_not another art gallery.

@112 ifting-tum lﬁltt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Computer Graphics Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Wliimey Swift
Assistant Business Managers . . . . Miriam Neel, Kevin Roddey
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Benjamin Plummer
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hal Waller-

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-

graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-_

ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertisingdoes not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

The Ring-tum Phl,

May 20, 1993

..
\
0
,%%
‘T2,; ,
I
 _ ..V . ' . are...
gage‘ ?za¢es§o\L Twas , \/ova Q.\”<\r“:(CAvﬁ0I\r§ mu: t-:xa-:i,u=»~rr Bur‘ NE‘
‘ (ea, mtr BB‘ H925 HA8 SOME ewwtcreetsries ‘THAT uoou> BEWEQ Ban-:¢u’
  rug €wLtSH bci>A2rMENV
0
Clinton enforces Conquest's Law
WASHINGTON —- Before leam- taxdeductibility of lobbying expenses. be blamed in part on the tax increases
ing what Conquest’s Law is, consider Said Clinton, “not one red cent” from in the budget deal. 'I'he1uxury tax was a“deﬁcit redug
some recent episodes of government elsewhere would be needed to pay for Shephard McKenney, chairman of tion”measme,asisthe administration’;

that illustrate the law.

Last year Congress, sensing that
just a slight touch or two on the tiller of
the ship of state would put America on

 

the bill.

Trouble is, the money from ending
the lobbyists’ deduction — perhaps
more than $100 million in 1994 and

  
   

course to per- $800 million
fection, passed over four
a bill to regu— years——is al-
late cable tele- ready allo-
vision, the GEORGE WILL cated. It is
complaint of _ . counted in
consumers be- Washington Post C 1 into ii ’ s
ing that prices ' 1994 budget‘
are “too high." Wnters Group as general
Trouble is, the revenues for
new law means deficit reduc-

a gusher of

regulatory business for the Federal
Communications Commission, such as
holding rate hearings and listening to
consumers griping.

So now the FCC wants to charge
cable TV companies $16 million to pay
for 240 additional bureaucrats needed
to cope with the new law. If Congress
approves the fee, cable companies will
be able to pass the cost along to con-
sumers. And the fee may notbe enough.
The FCC’s interim chairman says his
office space is already overﬂowing and
he willbehard pressed to find room for
his new troops. Call this “reinventing
government.”

The reinventioniwas supposed to ‘

involve “renting in entitlements” (to
ease “the deficit crisis”). ButPresident
Clinton is proposing a new entitlement
for a portion of his class—the political
class. It is public ﬁnancing for candi-
dates for house and Senate seats. This
program was presented as an exhibit of
the New Responsibility: The entitle-
merit would be “revenue neutral,” paid
for by revenues raised by ending the

tion.

Clinton is trying to assuage public
cynicism about deficit reduction by
concocting a cynicism-inducing defi-
cit “trust fund” that will not reduce the
deficit by a dime, and which members
of this own administration describe as
“symbolism” and “a display device.”
The administration should instead try
trustworthy bookkeeping.

Last week the House Ways and
Means Committee began the repeal of
a recent adventure in symbolism. The
committee undid one of its blunders
that was part of the 1990 budget deal.

The deal-makers, dealing in the sym-
‘bolism of “faimess,” imposed a luxury
tax on yachts, airplanes, jewelry, furs
and expensive cars. This supposedly
would raise both money and the morale
of the toiling classes. Trouble is, it cost
lots of toilers their jobs.

The 10 percent tax on yachts cost-
ing more than $100,000 went into ef-
fect on Jan. 1, 1991. Sales of such
yachts plummeted 70 percent in six
months, much more than could be
blamed on the recession which could

a yacht-building company in Maine
patiently explained that yachts are effi-
cient redistributors of wealth: “A typi-
cal $1 million yacht requires 12,000
labor hours (eight worker years) to
build, not counting all the manufac-
tured parts supplied by other domestic
industries, which provide their own

energy tax, which aUniversity of Okla-
homa study estimates will cost that
energy-intensive state 11,000 jobs.
Louisiana, Alaska and Wyoming also
will suffer irnmoderately. Will Con-
gress pass the energy tax while repeab
ing the luxury tax? Don’tbet a lot on it.
Or against it.

emP1°Ym<‘-H1. Explairiingwhy
Of the C0!1Sid- so much of the tax
erab1e1aborre- bill was debated
quiredtomain- behind closed
min such a The luxury tax (ex- doors, Dan
yacht.” ce t on cars, which is Rostenkowski,
Th J '

6 011“ ' ‘ ' chairman of Wa s

E C 0 n 0 m i C partly a projectionist Y

Committee of
Congress esti-
mated in the

measure) is about to be
repealed. The false
assumption behind the

and Means, used
thumbs up and
thumbs down.ges-
tures. The New

flrStSlXIl’l0llihS . York Times 1'?-
that tlieﬁtixury tax was that the rich ports, “He said he
1aX0n3 Items ‘ did not want his
    to 
mi ion in ost to look to lobby-
1;Va8°S- Inthihg disincentives. The same istsintheaudience
ll'Sl ear a ll‘ . . .
of {,1} U,g_ assumption is behind f,‘,’fnf,hb‘;"(‘,2ﬁ"si°f
lyachil-l>_ui_1d;=Srs the administration’s rials before th y
0811 €1fJ0 - ' ' ° _ spoke or voted.”
The luxury optimistic revenue pro The impliw
tax (except on jections for the higher non, of

cars, which is ;
partly a projec-

‘ I . J ,,
tionist mea— “C -

income tax for “the

Rostenkowski’ s
explanation, to-
gether with the i-

sure) is about to
be repealed.
The false assumption behind the tax
was that the rich would not alter their
behavior because of tax disincentives.
The same assumption is behind the
administration’s optimistic revenue
projections for the higher income tax
for “the rich.”

sodes cited abo ,
underscore the application to govem-
merit of Conquest’s Law, promulgated
byRobert Conquest, historian and poet.
It is: To anticipate the behavior of an
organization, assume it to be controlled
by a secret cabal of enemies deter-
mined to discredit it. ‘
© 1993, Washington Post Writers Group

President's wife emerges as a leader

WASHINGTON —— Change comes discreetly, not
at press conferences. It wasn ’t a woman’s selection as
Attorney General that has moved the country these
past weeks. It has been Janet Reno's on-the-job
strength of character in the wake of Waco.

It's been the same with Bill Clinton's other key
female appointment: giving his wife,Hillary Rodharn

What’s stunningly

 
 
    

Clinton, the clear already,
job of re- a month be-
forming this fore we’re
country's likel to see
5Y5tem Of CHRISTOPHER the yClinton
health care. MATTHEWS health plan, is
T_ A Cnlﬁg the confi-

ime- ' ' dence the
poll shows Tngune-Medla President’s
Americans ervlces chief consult-
approving ant has at-
her “promi- tained in the

nent role in

national policy” by a ratio of two to one. 91 percent
of those surveyed find her “intelligent.” 73 percent
see her as a “good role model for girls.”

What makes these numbers so impressive is the
way they conflict with all the media scuttlebutt, all the
endless jabs from the cultural right, alltlie men’s room
towel-snapping at “Biliary” and, of course, all the
jokes, like the one about the first lady’s imagined
divorce demand: “You get the money, I get the house!”

Through all this, the President’s wife has emerged
as an impressive, dedicated leader, someone with the
guts to take on a Goliatli-like challenge.

This is the big change. Whether Mrs. Clinton
proves successful in crafting a plan that saves money,
keeps taxes to a minimum while both extending and
improving medical care is today unknowable. The

public arena.
It is not premature to
say that she and Attor-
ney General Reno have
together shown suffi-
cient leadership talent
to their country to make
it wonder why it wor-
ried so much and for so
long about the country
having women in such
positions of inﬂuence.

possibilities range from the Clinton task force’s in-
ability to find the magic formula, to a plan’s defeat on
Capitol Hill, to enactment of an unworkable, ulti-
mately unpopular scheme, to Hillary Rodharn Clinton
winning the Nobel Peace Prize with a reform so
universally acclaimed that even Bob Dole signs aboard.

LETTERS

inaugural platform, his Roman Catholicism never
again merited a moment of public mention.

In the case of Hillary Rodham Clinton, the
country still worries very much about the design,
cost and personal consequences of her ﬁnal work-
product. But it has suddenly, impressively stopped

worrying about whether a first lady has the smagts

to re-tool the country’s
Rube Goldberg health

What’s stunningly clear
already is the confidence the
President’s chief consultant has
attained in the public arena. It
is not premature to say that she
and Attorney General Reno
have together shown sufficient
leadership talent to their coun-
try to make it wonder why it
worried so much and for so long
about the country having
women in such positions of

influence.

system. What other
political figure can we
name who 91 percent
of the country thinks
is “intelligent”? 9

Yes, change comes
subtly. On last
Sunday's “Face the
Nation,” cultural con-
servative Bill Bennett
solemnly wamed the
President not to try ayd
“hide behind” Hillary.

Now that’s an in-
teresting develop-
ment. ,

A few months ago,
the right was bashing
Clinton for sneaking

Americans have been through this before. Three
decades ago, the airwaves and newspapers buzzed
with the importance of a certain presidential
candidate’s religion. Yet, from the moment John F.
Kennedy addressed his fellow Americans from the

register.

his activist, leffy
spouse into the White
House with him. Now,
they’re worried that

Hillary Rodharn Clinton may be more battle-ready
than their Ozzie-and—Harriet mindsets were able to

© 1993, Tribune Media Services '

Community has a role in preventing child abuse or

To the Editor:
Over the past few years you prob-
ably have been reading and hearing

much more in the media about child
abuse in our community. Like most

people, you may feel shock or sadness
for the children whose lives are torn
apart by abuse or neglect.

In Virginia and nationally, April
was declared Child Abuse Prevention
Month. During April we wanted ‘ to
draw attention to what everyone in the
community can do to prevent the trag-
edy of child abuse. You, as a member

of our community, have an important
role in prevention, not only within your
own family, but within our community

and the state of Virgin, 1.
Below are some suggestions or what

you can do.

0 Help to keep violence out of your
life and out of your family. Deal with
stress in your life by knowing what
situations heighten stress, making ad-
justments to reduce stress and sharing
stressful feelings with spouses, rela-
tives, friends or counselors. Set aside
some adult time, apart from children.

0 Explore your own attitude toward
violence, i.e. corporal punishment,
criminal punishment, institutional care,

etc.

9 Build a supportive neighborhood.
Find ways to relieve stress, such as
coffee klatsching, babysitting, car pool-
ing, shared activities.

0 Educate yourself and your com-
munity about child abuse and neglect.

0 Get involved in your community.
Volunteer through your lcoal voluntary
action bureau, child protective services,
private family service organization, 10-

cal church, or community group.

Get involved in the legislative pro-
cess. Call or write your local, state, and
national elected officials to express

press your support for legislation ugh
benefits children and families. Your
interest can make a difference.

Child Abuse prevention is a com-
munity concern. Your effort is impor-
tant.

Tammy J . Merchant
Lexington Office on Youth and
Youth Services Citizen Board

C

 

 
    
   
  
  
   
 

The Ring-tum Phl, May 20, 1993

OPINION

Spos to W&L: the fat lady has sung

Spos’ SPACE
By Tom Hespos

This is it. You are holding in your
hands the final edition of The Ring-tum
Phi for this year. Thus, your inquisi-

tive oculars are staring at the ﬁnal

Spbs’ Space for this year. I know what
you’re thinking: “But Spos, will you

. continue to enlighten us with your inﬁ-

nite wisdom and uncarmy ability to
make funny jokes about beer?” Don’t
worry about it. Despite several at-
tempts by The Ring-tum Phi to find a
reiﬁacement for the all—exalted

- Sposmeister, the student body at Wash-

ington & Lee has failed to produce a
single worthy candidate for the posi-
tion of Humor Columnist and All-
Around Knowledgable Guru. The bot-
tom line: Spos will be around next year
to terrorize you once again. Not unlike
Jason from the “Friday the 13th” mov-
ies, Spos is pretty close to immortal
and always willing to do a sequel.
Writing this column has been both a
pleasure and a royal pain in the cojones.
Unveiling Larry Skipper was the most
fuiﬁproject of all. I have received
dozens of letters, FAXes and the like
which discuss Mister Skipper and his
exploits as a W&L undergrad. But

this week’s topic.

During my summer hiatus away
from greek life and the general chaos
of Washington & Lee’s social scene,
there are several things I will miss
about W&L. It almost goes without
saying that I will miss the parties and
the herds of hot women. Spos’ Surn-
mer Headquarters in lovely suburban
B

enough of this silly reminiscing. on to _

Long Island is nice, but in order to
produce a party the likes of what is
usually seen at W&L, Spos would have
to buy several kegs of beer by himself,
which would be beyond the reach of
his financial resources. Oh, well. I
need to fill up some space here, so here
I go with another stupid Top Ten list:

Top Ten Things Spos will miss
about W&L this summer:

1) Beer slides on the front lawn of
Chi Psi — lots 0’ fun.

2) The smiling faces of the incom-
petent-but-well-meaning W&L Secu-
rity force.

3) Two words — Road Cheese.

4) Flagpole-swinging at the Lex-
ington Post Office.

5) Singing at frat parties. You
know—“She was a virgin in her fresh-
man year...”

6) Sitting on the friendly wall and
wondering how I would get down with-
out breaking a leg.

7) Tubing at Goshen and ﬂying into
rocks at 30 mph.

8) Watching people fall face-first
into the mud at Zollman’s Pavilion.

9) Hickory Burgers at the Pit. -

10) Turmeling under the C-School.

In actuality, it will be nice to get
away from W&L for a couple of
months. Of course, in saying that, I
realize that within ten minutes after
hitting the Long Island Expressway on
the way home, I will want to turn
around and head back to MetroLex.
Why? Because Dad is waiting for me
at home with a shovel in hand, anxious
to make some dough by selling people
a bunch of lawn sprinklers that they
really don’t need.

I suppose that most of us, save for
those seniors who are graduating this

LETTERS

‘Student recruitment denies Phi claims PTO’?-‘S50’ disputes

spring, can look forward to next year
and the fun times that will come along
with it. Spos looks forward to those
days of ﬂoating on the Maury River
and those nights of well, you know. I

6) Eating dinners at the D-Hall.

7) Trying to find a job with a com-
pany other than Burger King or Taco
Bell.

8) Construction of the Lenfest Heli-

think I need to fill up some more space, port next to Lee Chapel.
so here we go again. (By the way, the 9) Dealing with the Registrar's Sec-
only reason retaries_
_whyhIfn_i «ti: . 10) The ap-
"181 15 1-S - —‘T_——.——_:—' pointrnentof use-
cause our It Will be nice to get lessdeans——The
§‘d?“a§i“8 away from W&L for a Dean of Dining
IIOT, 8110)’ Hall S ec’al
P a v 1 o v i c , couple  m0l!thS'  Events,ThgDelan
;1atesTopTen course, in saying that, I ofGettingPeople
ists and ° ' ' to Live in Gaines
wishes I realize that within ten and The Dean of
would stop minutes after hitting Cadaver Society
d°‘“8 them home, I will want to Affairs-
Heh-heh) t d d h d Spos would
Top Ten urn aroun an ea like to give his
tShing_s lthit back to MetroLex. sincere thanks to
pos is 00 - 9 - all of thosemem-
ing forward Why. Because Dad is bersome W&L
to for next waiting for me at home community who
Yea" with a shovel in hand, read his 001nm"
1) Letters . k on a regular ba-
from Justin anxlous to ma e some sis. Keep the
Peterson and dough by selling people faith. I’llbeback
Patrick - nextyear. And
McDerrnott—-— a bunch of lawn spnn' for those whose
don’t these kler S that they really eyes glaze over
people have don’t need_ when they get to
anything bet- tlieeditorialpage,
ter to do? ﬁe on you. (I've
2) Geol- beendyingtouse
ogy 101. that phrase ever since I took

3) The new lineup of Contact speak-
ers— Sally Mann, Andre Marrou and
Barney the Dinosaur.

4) Critical Probation.

5) Getting my first car tax bill. (The
City of Lexington normally assesses a
1971 VW at $450,000.)

Shakespeare.) I hope that everyone
has a safe fun-filled summer. Spos will
be waiting for you when you get back.
In the meantime, drink lots of beer,
watch lots of bad daytime TV and try
not to burn yourself when you ﬂip
those burgers.

T0 the Editor:

I respond to your editorial commentary in the
May 6 issue of the Phi. The issue of diversity at
Washington and Lee deserves legitimate debate;
however, your editorial made several erroneous and
misleading claims. The admissions staff and the
Student Recruitment Committee uphold the highest
degree of professionalism and operate by the Honor
Code as does any other university representative.

We do not mislead any prospective student about
the nature of any aspect of W&L life. Admissions

Biplogy majors. In no way do we deceive the pro-
spective students about the social life in our commu-
nity. «
The Student Recniitment Committee, accused of
“‘omit(ting) vital information from the picture painted
of W&L” in your editorial, includes Red Square as
a standard part of every tour, details information
co ceming student involvement in the greek system
to every prospective, and responds truthfully to any
question concerning the social options available to
students on campus.

We proudly discuss the importance of our strong
greek system, as well as informing prospectives of
other available options. Both the admissions staff
and the Student Recruitment Committee are dedi-
cared to bringing in the best possible students to

  
  
   
   

To the Editor:

‘As a former employee of the Pit, I feel for the
students and employees. My opinion does not mean
much but here it is anyway. I think it a shame to close
the Fit for dinner, and I really didn’t think it would
come to that.

information cites the percentage “of ‘students in? "
volved in the greek system just asit cites the number - -
of students from South Carolina or the number of 1

W&L; we do not want a student to attend this univer-
sity if they will be unhappy here. We take pride in the
entire W&L experience and we work hard to present
our school in the best light. We are committed to the
principles of the Honor Code; we do not confuse or
deceive anyone about our school. If, in the future, you
would like to research any concerns relating to the
Student Recruitment Committee, please contact any
member or chairperson; we will gladly discuss your
concerns in a truthful manner and provide you with an
accurate picture of our committee.

'. 2 ('

William Brian Hucks, ’95

Mac Tisdale, ’94

Nikki Magaziner, ’94

Co—chairs, Student Recruitment Committee

Editors’ note: Mr. Hucks told the Phi thatiry'orma-
tion about the fraternity sytem could be found in the
Admissions Statistics, athe brochure Opportunities
,or the Tour Manual. Only Opportunities and the
Admissions Statistics are available to prospectives.
Neither mention the greek system. The pamphlet, An
Invitation, says "In addition to active chapters of
national social fraternities and sororities, the Univer-
sity has chapters of Phi Beta Kappa..." Of the about
23 pamphlets available to prospectives, the previous
sentence is the only mention made to the greek system.
The Phi realizes the greek system may be discussed in
interviews and on tours.

(Former employee regrets GHQ closing

While we’re on the subject of the Pit, I have not
seen anything written about the former management
team, Bill Torrence and Mary Martin. I at least ex-
pected a goodbye, good luck, or have a nice life. And
as Bill was often heard saying, “Beza May Ali
Cachimba.”

(Kiss me on the pipe).

Peck charges

To the Editor:

One would think that after four years of educa-
tion at Washington and Lee, Cameron Humphries
would be able to get his facts straight. In the most
recent issue of the Washington and Lee Spectator,
he once again accuses Professor Demaree Peck of
joining Professor Valerie Hedquist in a boycott of
local businesses that advertise in the Spectator. This

(accusation, is absolutely without foundation.

Unlike” Professor Hedquist, Professor‘ Peck nei-
ther sent letters of protest to local businesses nor
threatened them with a boycott. On the contrary, she
has been a regular customer of the two businesses,
Bierer’s Pharmacy and The Jefferson Florist, to
which Professor Hedquist sent her letters of protest
two years ago.

As I recall, Professor Peck offered a vigorous
defense of Professor Hedquist’s right to free speech,
and an extended analysis and critique of the illiberal
climate of opinion, sown and cultivated by the
Spectator, that resulted in the harassment of Profes-
sor Hedquist for well over a year.

Having dished it out against Professor Hedquist,
Mr. Humphries apparently has been unable to take it
from Professor Peck. Hardly an issue of the Specta-
tor has gone by in the last year without some nebu-
lous charge of “totalitarianism”or “embarrassments”
or “politics” relating to Professor Peck’s perfor-
mance in the English Department.

Could it be that Mr. Humphries just caimot deal
with the presence of outstanding women teacherl
scholars at Washington and Lee?

Kenneth A. Lambert
Associate Professor
Computer Science

Pub Board

There will be a meeting on Mon-
day, May 24 at 8:00 p.m. in room
208 of the University Center.

FOC

There is a mandatory meeting
for all FOC members on May 25 at
8:00 p.m. in room 108 in the Uni-
versity‘ Center. If you have any
questions, call Carlin at 464-3758.

WLUR

WLUR is accepting applications
for AssistantDirectors for the Rock,
Dance/Rap. andClassical MusicDe-
partments for the 1993-94 academic
year. Interested persons should con-
tact Becky Crow at 463-8443, by
writing to WLUR, or e-mail
(WLUR@wlu.edu). Duties will be-
gin fall term 1993.

Hoop-It-Up

Kappa Alpha will host a 3 on 3
Hoop-It-Up basketball tournament
for the Muscular Dystrophy Asso-
ciation Sunday at Doremus Gym.
The entry fee is $15.. Entry forms
are available at Kelly’ s Comer, First
Team Sports, East Lex, and Univer-
sity Sportswear or sign up in front
of the Co—op on Thursday, May 20.
Call Matt Strock at 463-6952 or the
KA house at 464-6141 for more
information.

Furniture

Attention seniors: Do you need
to get rid of your household items
before graduation? I am seeking
donations for a yard sale; I am able
to pay for some items. Don’t leave
them in the house for the
landlord.Call Mike at 463-7501.

 

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt

PAGE 3

Women’s Forum

Our last activity of the year will
be a cookout/retreat at Shannon
Comer’s house. Join us Sunday,
May 23 from 2 p.m. - ?? for food,
games, rope swinging and fun. Sign
up by Friday in Arlington Women’s
Center, where directions will be
available. For more information
call Kate at 463-6687 or Avery at
464-1813.

Broadcasting

Anyone interested in armounc-
ing or engineering WLUR broad-
casts of Generals’ football in the
fall must attend a meeting Tues-
day, May 25 at7 p.m. in the journal-
ism library in Reid Hall. For more
information, call Keith at464-3696.

Car Wash

Pi Kappa Phi and Kappa Alpha
Theta are sponsoring a car wash
Saturday, May 22, behind the Pi
Phi house. All proceeds will go to
beneﬁtthe MuscularDystrophy As-
sociation. The cost is $4 and the
hours are 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Seminar

The Rockbridge Area National
Organization for Women and Rob-
ertE. Lee Parish will be sponsoring
a public seminar “Menopause:
Myths and Realities,” by Dr. J oAnn
V. Pinkerton, M.D. and Catherine
W. Zuver, R.N. Tuesday, May 25 at
7:45 p.m. Child care will be pro-
vided.

Phi

This is the last issue of The Ring-
tum Phi for the 1992-1993 aca-
demic year. The next Phi will ap-
pear on September 9, 1993.

 
   
   
  

the Pit could do well.

I was a cook there for three years and have a good
idea how much money was made or lost and why.
Eﬁcept for spring term, Nadine Staton and myself
worked like dogs. There is no reason that with
creative management and work efficient employees

Deal Mary.

Thank you,
Mike Tolley

I’ll always remember Yard Sale Bill and Make A

Letters or My Views that are submitted
after this issue will be printed in the Septem-
ber 9, 1993 issue.

Letters

Interviews and Photos

by Melissa Curtis and Robert Stewart

After you graduate, wha

TALKBACK

 

Student Body Notice

1 A student has been found guilty of cheating on a winter ter_m final
exam and has chosen to withdraw from the university.

the error.

Correction

In the May 13, 1993 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, the Talkback photos of
Lissa Cockrel and Helen Chandler were reversed. The Phi apologizes for

Student lauds D-Hall

To the Editor:

I am writing to commend the staff
of the Evans Dining Hall for all of their
efforts in creating an inviting and en-
joyable dining experience for W&L
students. I would particularly like to
applaud the work of Evans Dining Hall
Manager Mr. John T. Taffe.

It is not unusual to see Mr. Taffe
sitting down with a group of students
during dinner and asking them for their
thoughts about upcoming D-Hall
events. Give the D-Hall an event, and
they will find a way to celebrate it not
only through a specialized menu, but
also through decorations and costumes

for the staff. Such occasions, whether
for Thanksgiving, Earth Day, or Elvis,
are consistently well-prepared and en-
tertaining.

I would also like to recognize Ms.
Gail D. Dixon, who makes my day by
calling me and many other students by
name when asking us what we would
like from behind the counter.

Finally, I wish to thank the Dining
Hall staff for helping to make my fresh-
man and senior years at W&L healthy
and happy.

Teresa A. Williams, '93

Layout by Joe Framptom

 

t will you miss most about W&L?

Andrea Cardamone, Gladwyne, Betsy Kleiner, Colorado Springs,‘ Drew Winterer, Essex, Conn. and Shannon Comer, Decatur, Ga. Spencer Bell, Donna, Tex. Tim Thompson, Fort Worth, Tex.
mum Com _ “No really, the Spectator,” “Sleeping late, skipping classes, and “Everything. I don’t want to leave.”
“The scenery.” “Hot nights with hot men in the Bor- «_v 13"?" “Funk ’

dello.” 7 r

 

PAGE 4

Becca: Musical fantasy opens tonight

Unique characters and colorful sets high-
lighttliis weekend’s theatre production of Becca,
a fantastical children’s tale written by Wendy
Kesselman and directed by Associate Professor
of Drama J. D. Martinez.

“The play shows that children have the prob-
lem of the balance between independence and
the fear of independence which adults tend to
forget. It is about the struggle to be free and the
desire to be accepted,” said Martinez.

Mandy Irons, ’95, who starred last fall as
Toinette in The Imaginary Invalid, plays Becca.
She said, “It’s been a lot of fun, but difficult at
times because I always have to respond like a
child.”

“It’ s more difficult to remain consistent than
the other roles I’ve played. Playing Becca has

brought out the child in me,” she said.
“Chidren’s theatre is different because you
mustremember that you’re performing forchil-
dren. We had to make some alterations so that
the children can understand what is going on,”
said Irons. “We have to play directly to the

children, and that is an exciting difference.

about children’s theatre.”

Martinez took a sabbatical leave last fall to
research children’s theatre.

“I have children of my own, and I began to
see how they develop their creativities. I was
interested in the similarities between a young
child’s development and theatre,” he said.

“It’s much more bold and brightly colored
than the other types of theatre, and because
there’s the fantasy element, I’ve been able to
work with an excellent de-
sign team to create the world
of large animals in the play,”
said Martinez.

The animal costumes cre-
ate large, lively images.

Gretchen Hall, ’96, who
plays the bullfrog, said, “We
wear prosthetics, like Big
Bird or Cookie Monster on
Sesame Street..”

“It’s an all-encompass-
ing costume. They are all fit-
ted exactly to our sizes,” she
said.

Irons said, “The animals
are huge and wonderful. My
costume looks like Dorothy’ s
from The Wizard of 02, ex-
cept it is bright red.”

Hank Huff, ’93, plays
Becca’s older brother
Jonathan. He wears a vest,
knickers, and a bow tie, and
looks, according to Irons, like
Little Lord Fauntleroy.

University Chorus direc-
tor Courtney Birch, who
worked with last year’s mu-
sical, A Funny Thing Hap-
pened on the Way to the F a-
rum, is the musical director
for Becca.

She said, “It’s a relatively

Becca, played by Mandy Irons, faces the ultimate
adventure of her young life.

short show, about an hour
long, and there are 15 to 16
songs. The singers are very
talented, and it’s been excit-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1993

FEATURES

By MATI‘ DILLARD
Phi Staff Writer

"z
;irI‘|.\3Ilv.;nl\n\t|lD;

‘ll 'ri'tIrIi ‘lay
‘it ’i'iii{i/ Kcssrﬁiiaii

’I)i'rrri:i!'Iiy
_’l. 0. Martina;

Lenfest Center
Johnson Theatre

6 . 20,21, 22 7:00 pm
May 22, 28 2:00 pm

ing to work with such great voices.”

Irons said, “I’ve enjoyed the singing. There
are several styles of music to perform.”

“ Sometimes it is difﬁcult to sing because
the role is very physical, like Toinette, and I
have to keep the childlike, mechanical voice
after running around,” she said.

“I think the children will like it. Some of the
children who have seen the rehearsals have
actually been worriedfor Becca. They tend to
pick a favorite character and respond to it,” said
Irons.

Peter Dishman, ’96, is enjoying his first
theatre experience as the grasshopper.

“I think the message for children is human-
ist, just to believe in yourself and your dreams.
For adults, I think it’s a message to break out of
the work grind,” he said.

Martinez said, “The subject matter lends
itself to entertain both adults and children.”

“There are some modern, more hip images
that will appeal to adults. The children will
enjoy it because it is strange and bizarre and has

lots of fantasy ob-
jects. The adults
will enjoy it for
those same
reasons,”he said.
“The children
may learn that if
they face their
fears they can
conquer them. If
there is a mes-
sage, it is for the
children,”
Martinez said.

Rockbridge V

County elemen-
tary school chil-
dren will see spe-
cialmomingper—
formances on
Monday and
Tuesday, May 24
and 25.

While at Washington and Lee, the children
will tour the backstage of Lenfest Center, and
W&L volunteers will answer questions.

Becca opens Thursday, May 20 at 7:00 .

  
     
    
 
  
 
  
  
 

 

   
 
  
    

     
 

Director J.D. Martinez and costumer Laurie MacRae make ..
adjustments in Becca’s costume.

  

   
   

p.m., and will be performed on May 21 and 22
at 7:00 p.m. and May 22 and 23 at 2:00 p.m. For
ticket information contact the Lenfest box of-
fice at 463-8000. .

   
   
  
 

 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

The tap-dancing tat little rats, Dana Lawrence and Madeline white, and
ancient Ida the Spider, Michelle Brien, ensnare Becca S g

 
 
  
 

 
   
 

lver Get Somebody lotally Wasted!

  
   
    
 
  
   
   
       

IA/(I Ilii /(H5.
L‘/lli,4 W

 

FRIENDS ll[]N' lil FRIENDS lllllllt DRUNK

'5‘ '0! u s. Department oi Transportation

DRUNK DRIVING PREVENTlON Ci3.lVlF'AlGN

NEWSPAPER AD NO. DD-90—1716—3 COL. x10.5"‘ _ p .
Volunteer Agency: Wells, Rich, Greene, lnc.. Campaign Director: Richard S. Helstein, General Foods, USA

W&L -Students, we we come you to our Barber hop for,
‘your next haircut. We have experienced Barbers. 1 

Ideal Barber Shop ,4

22 S. Main St., Lexington - Below First American Bank 

 
   

Carpool to James Madison Univer-
sity next fall. My car or trade help
for disabled lady for recompense.
Call 463-3346 for more info.

 

4 Hardware, Paint and Related Items .

Open Mon.-Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6 pm. ‘Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

      
  
   
     

3' l‘iit‘::‘L‘i amt

l'::i sort‘.

  

\- -\
I.’

tip 5.7l'6.i‘ii‘to-. .~'=;r=‘-,=itm‘. :'.i' l..

Caring, stable single female
school teacher desires to
adopt a baby. Financially secur

463-2186

 

WET FUN CHARTERS

Vacation Sailing Adventures

(305) 949-2380

Let Frank and Anne Show you the Bahamas. We’ll take
you sailing, sight-seeing, snorkeling, and more. Come
vacation with us in the Bahamas. .

Family Tours . . . Groups of Friends . . . Educational Trips

 

Can provide loving & fun family.
Call collect 804-572-8403 or
write P. O. Box 655. South Boston.

VA 24592.

   
   

  

_EMPLOXMENT
.'0RPORTyNlTY

ALASKA SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
FISHERIES - Students Needed! Earn up
to $600+ per week in canneries or 34,000+
per month on fishing boats. re
transportation! Room& Board. Over ,000
openings. No experience necessary. Male

  
   
   
   
   
 

kk

W&L’

1870 Washington College"Diploma
signed “R.E. Lee M 9

Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee
M. Miley

' Edward Valentine

W&L Coppcrplate. hand—colored , O
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art

Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

limlmﬂﬂﬂﬁ
lilllllllll

or Female. For employment program call:

1-206-545-4155 ext. A5342
Student Employment Services

 
 

Art

   
 

R.E. Lee. Jr.
John Letcher

   
  
 

CRUISE JOBS

Students Needed!

Earn up to $2,000+ per month +
world travel (Hawaii, Mexico,
the Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time
employment available. For
employment program call:
Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext. C5342

     
 

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday -Saturday

10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. p,

 

 

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1993

 

By KRISTA TAURINS
Phi Contributing Writer

Dr. Barry Kolman of Washington
and Lee’s music department will boldly
do what no one before him has done. No
American, anyway.

On May 22, Kolman will travel to

Baku, Azerbaijan, where he will be the
first American to conduct
the National Symphony of
Azerbaijan.
.3 “It’s going to be tele-
vised,” said Kolman, “and
they’llbetaping the rehears-
als. Lots of pictures.”

Kolman was invited to
Baku by the Minister of Cul-
ture of Azerbaijan. When

 

l'Ko man makes music
and history in Azerbaijan

said he can identify his name,
written across the bottom in bold
red Cyrillic letters.

Kolman said the press cover-
age and publicity boosted the sta-
tus of the Ukrainian orchestra.
He recently received a tliarik—you
note from the Ukrainian conduc-
tor.

“I feel pretty good about that,
that I was ableto keep
his orchestra going,”
said Kolman. “He’s
now able to get
money from the gov-
emment.”

Kolman’s first
conducting adventure
inRussiawas in 1991,

the National Opera of .
Azerbaijan heard he was
coming, they invited him to
conduct as well.

“I’m not sure whether I’m the first

American to conduct the Opera Com-
pany,” he laughed.
Q Arranging the trip was a five-month
process, involving numerous FAXes and
phone calls to Baku. “That in itself was a
project,” said Kolman.’

Kolman’s interpreter during the pro-
cess was Arkady Jeifitz, violinist and
recent emigre from Russia and the W&L
. ymphony Orchestra’s concert master

is year. Jeiﬁtz is a former performer in
the National Symphony of Azerbaijan,
and contacted them on Kolman’s behalf.

This will be Kolman’s third experi-
ence conducting in the former Soviet
Union. Last year he conducted a cham-
her orchestra in Kherson, Ukraine.

“I was the only American, and they
don’t get a heck of a lot of tourists,” he
said. “The whole town came out in
droves.”

Kolman conductedtwo performances,
which 1600 people attended. Struck by

e generosity of the people he met, he
aid he received “enough flowers to open
a ﬂower shop.”

A poster from that trip hangs on the

wall of his office behind Kolman’s desk.

Kolman

Though he can’t read the Russian, he V

Crimea. Kolman had
sent letters to foreign
orchestras, hoping to
stimulate musical ex-
change programs. Subsequently,
the conductor from the Crimean
orchestra, Alexei Gulyanitsky,
conducted the W&L orchestra
this year.

“I thought everyone would
benefit from this kind of cultural
exchange,” Kolman said. ‘

Gulyanitsky certainly did.
Kolman says Gulyanitsky was
intrigued by a sponge he picked
up from Kolman’s kitchen
counter. He’d never seen one
before.

“I took him to Walmart and
Kroger and he just stared,” said
Kolman. “He wanted to buy a
sponge. He bought three or four
for his wife.”

Kolman is now busy studying
the scores he will conduct in Baku.

Kolman an chose some Ameri-
can music: Aaron Copland’ s Sym-
phony No. 3 and the Ballet Suite
by Walter Piston.

“The only American compos-
ers they know are Gershwin,
Copland, and Bernstein,” he said.
“I try to bring other composers as
well.”

.. when he went to the '

  

  

 

  

  °i?P<>

All WiriiferMerc_handi.se   5 1 

  

FEATURES

PAGE 5

Art exhibit features seniors’ projects

By JEANNE BRIGGS
Phi Features Editor

The senior thesis art exhibit which is
on display this week in the duPont Gal-
lery features a variety of artwork from
Washington and Lee seniors David
Phillips, Malinda Murphey, Dee
T. Miles, Chris Doherty, and C.

enced by Edward Hopper, a 20th century
American who painted the urban land-
scape.

“His paintings are stark and empty,
and have no figures. I think my pictures
reﬂect that somewhat. He has inﬂuenced
me the most.”

Crothers, who is not an art major but
was included in the show because he has

done much of the work that is re-
quired for a senior thesis, deals with
the portrait as subject in his photo-
graphs. '

Crothers has been working with
University photographer Patrick
Hinely in addition to his studio art
courses.

Crothers said that he comes up

with the idea for a photograph and then
looks for people who will work best in
the photo.

“I spend a lot of time thinking about
how best to capture a person’s person-
ality on film,” Crothers said.

Crothers said that most of his sub-
jects were people that he knew at W&L
or around town.

“You have to ﬁnd some-

Taylor Crothers.

The students assembled the
exhibit to showcase their the-
ses, which are the culmination
of their workasartmajors. They
have been working with W&L
art professors Agnes Carbrey
and Larry Stene to prepare for
the exhibit.

Doherty, whose work in the
show focuses on interpretation
of the urban landscape, said,
“The cityscape has always in-
terestedme. I’m from abig city,
so that was my initial focus. I
wanted to draw som ethin 2 from
wanted to draw something from
the city, but I didn’t want to
work from photographs, so I
went straight to drawing from
life.”

Several of Doherty’s pieces
in the show are representations
of Lexington.

“There are a lot of interest-
ing forms in Lexington,”
Doherty said. “There is a lim-
ited number of buildings, so that
gives me a focus.” Doherty said
he particularly concentrated on
early morning in his work.

“I really like the quality of
light at sunrise. The streets are
kind of empty. There’s a som-
ber quality at sunrise that I tried
to show in my work,” Doherty
said.

Doherty worked with oil
paint crayon for his thesis be-
cause he was interested in the
idea of color.

“I had done a bunch of char-
coal drawings, but charcoal is
very dusty and the color doesn't
last. Oil is much more penna-
nent.” _

Doherty said he has been most

Evans Dining Hall 

islnovv accepting
applications for

Crother’s photo “Untitled”

    

130 S. Main St.

  

V ondalc - - Di’1 ck - i
I Jansport daypacks and  bags ‘ .
  ’ Lexington Bike Shop _‘

Mon.-iiri. 9-5/Sat. 9-12 Noon

body you can work with,”
he said. “Most people are
taken aback or flattered
when you ask them if you
can take their picture.”

Crothers said, “In my
photographs I try to make
things that look ordinary
lookdifferent. Photography
is about documenting some-
thing that’s there and mak-
ing it unique.”

Phillips’ work in the ex-
hibit is comprised of assem-
blages that incorporate
found objects and mixed
media. Murohev’s small and
large format paintings are
done in oil paint and utilize
a representational style.
Miles’ abstract sculptures
are fabricated in welded
metal using bright colors.

The students’ exhibit will
be on display until Thurs-
day, June 3. DuPont Gal-
lery hours are 8 a.m. to 5

day.

Last Week’s
Crossword
Puzzle Solved:

    

> 1 a

453-7969

   
 

p.m. Monday through Fri-

 

WE23 N. Main sir . 50% V (703)463-5938
-Lexinton,VA24450  A" '

i«»‘“"92“f’%*«   f

Lineworkers, Checkers, and
Dishroom for the 1993-94
school year. To inquire, see

p Robert Dunlap at Evans

ii HAMRIC & SHERIDAN JEWELERS A -*-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-—-'

   
   
       
     
     
    
 

    

\

  

 

    

ey all you underclassrnen, taking_a light load in the fall? Won’t be

‘ableto play_the. violin ever a am? ant to be part of a great 9
University publication? Want to _now the news before any one else.
I ’m very sorry I ‘voted for Bill Clinton. Like to stay _u really late on

Wednesday nights?.Do you have a very slow socia life. I the _

answer to these questions is a heartily agree, then you shou d war It
for the Phi next year.

\

     

oooeoooooooooooooeeoooooooo
il
I
I
I

     
     
   
   
   
   
      
    
   
   
     
     
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
   

 
 

 
 

  

  

' Jewelry & Watch repairs, Engraving ‘ '  
STANDARD STUDENT DISCOUNT p    Fa In fOr Ren 
11W. Nelson_St_reet Robby Jones , E SCC1udCd; 3 BCdrOOm, 2 E:
plocvgirigton, Virginia 24450 (703) 463-2022 I V‘ ' E B ath Fireplace E
OUTLET     ’ r ‘   
?6‘zé¢ ,4»  I    .  woodstove. Very large Rec 
LEE HIP 1§‘a§§$s"$1§§rFa‘§i%°§fi§§§ ’§33‘z.?‘i.l§%’o3§‘i$ls’Z‘§§‘i¥.iw°”’  TOOII1 With Bat 0113 Of the 
at ' veryday 1 GUARANTEED! We rece've I  ° ' . 
Breakfast BuffetFriday & Saturday merchandise fromAmerica’s mostfamoiismail“ .   best Vlews In Lexlngton’ 
Nig1l’litU1%: p.né. ms: $.31. orderhouses. New shipments Every Week!  Large front yard. 
A--an at . In_  _ .  _ 
Sunday Breakfast Buffet 8 a.m.to 2 Cat§fg;°g:V§II$1§1:1edS§aégI%2§;a%$e“£31yFmn°m  3 II11l€S out On  
Wednefdany .-gclioice of There “,6 r°d“°:ti°“5 from 25 4"/5% °n M353 and  (Tat,  
/2 k éngtgago &v‘e/ghet1abRle k $10 95 :’°“‘°“ 1::°“““3f' , 1 $  Rent 1S negotiable. Call 
1 Rac — . 0 e ac - . amous ttops orwomen-re y 18-  
Saturday Night Prime Rib Now $3.00. Seleéted Henley Shins reduced to$3.00.   _________ ___-Ij
_ Queen Cut $1 1.95 King Cut $ 1 3.95 33139“? 1§I‘f(T)1’Sr‘:‘3nddcVeV(‘l3me§1:IS9S§W€at€FS - 1'-"3'3':'3':'3':'5'3":-'3‘:'3'3'5':':':':':'3':-'3'5':'3':"-'-'-'-"-'-'-'-"-'-'-"-'4
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner served R’-811131)’ . ‘ 11 Y0 ~- '
24 hrs. a day. Lexingtont Congratufations
D t R b tE. L Bld .
We a:c(:1p1il\e/isEiobifggtgrrdaliggéiolige and 0Iv'vI:)1u(l)‘vSi;nl\’(I0I(i.-giant. 9:38?5:30g) to tﬁe W&L C[a55 0f1993
3 he 11 703-463-9730
‘     I it Cards? " §riTnEm' :'siaiiiii'c€'s.'iiiii 'i7'si27iL‘piiiu"riiiou?r133‘3ii"' _ r _
Do You Want VISA 8: MasterCard C rh '. d d S: S’ , t     : €}h!§I|vgEf(g|s"T¥§s
 ~ . Now ucanhavetwootcmostrccognze an 9 - - ~
.   G P :;=.:i°err;.:.::se. remit : .’.”’f...."".i‘.°“"".......i.f.'.‘.:‘.1t :  
“Ea cm-:oi‘r or HAVE Been ‘TURNED DOWN BEFORE!‘ . appmkd ,mmed,a,dy_ » i V . 9 . I ¢g§f:ggr 
' VISA!” and Masiercarde the credit cards you I _ . I ESZTON gig/Fr|>MTwE
M” “"§r'€>°ri‘£as“I:J.‘%;,?.‘:°.;e:.g*;:;,A,;';,t:,~.';.": ; NAME   ;   e
 - ADDRESS -  Sm Zn, ; rszaeztiasieazrrarr
o‘ .c ' Rr~:r>AiRs'—ANoTo emu) YOUR cm-zorr RATING! | CITY " __ 3fi.’f§‘T'2>‘i§E‘s‘:‘a‘‘vl'c‘°s”c‘é’f.‘}i=_‘’;§T”‘”T
- v ’ A - '  x I ' 3¥Xi§$§$"§§n'3?‘vTs3\“7E'.?éovea
 . mt“ - PHONE   '
SERVICES, \NC eu*"" ‘ “in No credit I SIGNATURE 1 ' (800) 468-6667.
‘  . * “s”ﬂ§‘s2:° M‘: No security deposit! ' non-.-iamac-xuis-‘regimen.-a trldeniarkcfkiuterarrilntcmdlornllric. ' co.-nerofogdenastarkey Road-. '
, _ A c“‘|§‘°““ cl‘ . I visatsnicglstercd amen-ixurvisii usiuim-_mavisAtniennuomi I (;\;:r(l)ookici*,igT;::g<l3ew’:>od Nlaii
I rcurd ' .  s=-°~~—m“  :   -
._¢,_ - g___________,,__._,___________ —

 

 

Cheney and wife to
speak at W&L

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Former, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney
and his wife Lyrme Cheney, former chairman
of the National Endowment for the Humanities
will speak at Washington and Lee University
today.

Mr. Cheney will lecture on “America's Role
in the New Security Environment” at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

Mrs.
Cheney will
lecture on
“Telling the
Truth About
the Politi-
“ cized Univer-
sity” in
Northen Au-
‘ ditorium at 4
. p.m.
‘ M r .
Cheney is
c u r r e n t 1 y
touring the
country lec-
turing on a
variety of is-
sues.

He is a
Senior Fellow at the American Enterprise Insti-
tute and serves as a member of the Board of

 

Dlck Cheney

Directors of a number of companies.

Mr. Cheney served as Deputy Assistant to
the President in 1974 under Gerald R. Ford. He
later served Ford as Assistant to the President
and White House Chief of Staff.

He was elected Wyoming’s sole congress-
man in the United States House of Representa-
tives in 1978. Mr. Cheney sewed on numerous
committees, including the Interior Committee,
Intelligence Committee and the Select Com-
mittee to Investigate Covert Arms Deals with
Iran.

Mr. Cheney served as Secretary of Defense
from March, 1989 to January 1993. He directed
two of the nation's largest military campaigns
in recent history— Operation Just Cause in
Panama and Operations Desert Shield and
Desert Storm.

He was awarded the Medal of Freedom in
July, 1991 by President Bush for his leadership
in the Persian Gulf War.

Mrs. Cheney served as chairman of the
National Endowment for the Humanities from
1986-1993.

She has taught at several colleges and was
a senior editor at Washingtonian Magazine.
She is also a widely published author and nov-
elist.

Mrs. Cheney is currently the W.H. Brady
Distinguished Fellow at the American Enter-
prise Institute, where she is writing a book on
the social impact of current cultural trends in
America.

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20 1993

Green grass and shade

Photo By Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi

Two freshmen enjoy spring term at W&L. Unfortunately the National weather service is not
predicting prime Goshen weather for the last weekend before tlnals.

ODK inducts seven juniors

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Surface.
Andrew H. McCutcheon, ’48, the

Auditorium in the University Library,

Gaines summer‘
face-lift planned»  

By ANDREA COBRIN
Phi News Editor

Students living in the A-wing of
Gaines Hall will come back next year
to freshly paintedrooms.

Buildings and Grounds will repaint
the rooms, check the heating systems
and toilet facilities and replace or
restretch carpet where it is needed.

The refurbishing of the A-wing is
the first part of a three year project.
The other two wings in Gaines will be
renovated during the following two
summers.

The A-wing plan is budgeted at
$10,000, said Superintendent of Build-
ings and Grounds James Arthur.

Arthur said that Gaines has not un-
dergone any renovations since it was
completed in 1987.

All three wings of Gaines cannot be
renovated at once because the W&L
Alumni College need the rooms for
their summer programs.

“The summer programs use most of
the rooms in Gaines so we can’t do the
whole thing in one fell swoop,” Dean
of Freshmen and Residence Life Den-
nis Manning said.

Director of Special Programs Rob-
ert Fure said the renovations will be a

strain on the Alumni College program.

“Gaines Hall has been a boom to
our summer programs because it’s so
comfortable for adult occupancy,” Fure
said. 1‘

Alumni College participants lived
in the Woods Creek Apartments be-
fore Gaines was built.

Fure said he was worried about
what affect the ongoing summer reno-
vations in Gaines would have in the
future, especially since the A-winglls
the smallest of the three wings in the
dormitory.

The number of people participating
in the Alumni College programs‘ this
summer had to be limited because‘ of
the lack of space to house them, he
said. g

“We’re caught in a bind because
our programs are growing every year,”
Fure said. “For the next three years,
instead of having expanded space we ’1l
have reduced space.

But, part of the reason for our suc-
cess has been the appearance aid
maintance of our facilities. We under-
stand that periodic renovation has to
occur.”

Manning agrees.

“We’re always wanting to make the
facilities look nice so that students
want to use them,” he said. 3

W&L to pay more ‘taxes’ 0

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Washintgton & Lee University will
reimburse the City of Lexington for
taxes that it will no longer be able to
collect on El Rodeo property and stu-
dent telephones.

W&L purchased the El Rodeo prop-
erty on March 17 and will use the
building for ofﬁce space. W&L will
consolidate its phone system into a
networked unit this summer. By law,
any property owned by W&L is ex-
empt from city taxes. In such situa-
tions, it is customary for W&L to give

a grant of approximately equal value to"

the city.

Thecitywillreceiveayearly$2,000
grant from W&L in lieu of taxes on El
Rodeo.The El Rodeo property is worth
$196,100 and its previous owners,
Wade H. Leslie III and Sue Ellen T.
Leslie,paid$1,882.56inpropertytaxes
to the city last year, according to Sandy
Tucker of the City Commissioner of
Revenue’s office.

University Treasurer and Chief Fi-
nancial Officer Lawrence W. Broomall,
Jr. said the W&L Board of Trustees
feels that this grant and other grants
given to the city in lieu of taxes on
university holdings are justified.

“These grants are appropriate to
make to the city based on the services
we receive from them,” said Broomall.
The university is not obligated to give

 

 

also included the presentation of the

the city any money..

Phot_o BY Bethany Smith, The Ft‘/ng-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s
Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa
announced eight new members—seven
students of the Class of ’94 and one
W&L alumnus, at a spring initiation
ceremony Saturday, May 8.

The student initiatiates are Laura E.
Clark, M. Elise Hagensen, M. Ames
Hutton, James F. Kull, Allison G.
Lewis, Jennifer A. Roscoe and John S.

alumnae initiate, is national marketing
director with Reynolds Aluminum in
Richmond.

A national organization, Omicron
Delta Kappa was founded at W&L in
1914 by three students. Criteria for
selection are the exemplary character,
responsible leadership and service, su-
perior scholarship and genuine fellow-
ship of those chosen.

The ceremony, held in Northen

Rupert Latture Award to Brandi Erin
Henderson, ’95. The award is given
annually to an outstanding sophomore
at W&L who exemplifies the ideals of
ODK.

The two winners of The James G.
Leybum Award for Community Ser-
vice were the Rockbridge Area Coali-
tion Against Sexual Assault
(RAC AS A) and Phi Alpha Delta Legal
Fraternity.

Sixty percent of the money for the
grants will come from tuition. The
other 40 percent will come from the
university’s endowment and invest-
ments.

The university will give $16,000 a
year to the city to compensate for loss
of taxes as a result of the implementa-
tion of the new phone system. W&L is
installing telephone, computer net-

'working, and cable service in all uni-

Kent Communication workers Install the wlres for W&L’s new

phone system.

versity housing. Broomall said the
amount of this grant is based on a per-
line charge.

The university annually gives the
city grants of between $45,000 and
$50,000 in lieu of taxes on fraternity
houses. W&L’s fraternities paid taxes
to the city before the university-spon-

0
sored Renaissance program made the
houses university property. The city
also receives grants of $25,000 to
$30,000 in lieu of taxes on university-
owned faculty housing.

The status of grants made to the city
is not reviewed annually by the WSL
Board of Trustees.

Students question English departments decision

Cl PECK, from page 1

“If the reasoning had anything to do with politics, than I
am very, very ashamed that I go to a school that can’t tolerate
differences of opinion,” she said. “She was a great teacher.
[In my opinion] the politics must have been the deciding
factor.”

Discussing a novel which concerned tyrarmy, Lynch told
his Romantic Gothic novel class that he was angry about the
decision.

“A statement such as this is the university saying that
what we want is people who are like us, middle-aged men
who have a particular kind of ideology,” he said. “They are
saying, ‘We don’t like you. You're not like us. Go away.”’

Craun insisted that politics had nothing to do with the
decision.

“Where there were letters which were ideological in
foundation, we threw them out,” Craun said when discuss-
ing the review process. “If we saw gender bias of any kind,
we dismissed it.”

Elrod agreed.

“I don’t for a moment believe that caprice or personal
bias affects any of the personnel decisions that the university
makes,” he said. “The process is too well described and
involves too many people at multiple levels to affect the
outcome.”

Other students reported that they did not agree with her
teaching style. None of them, however, would comment on
the record.

Former Spectator editor senior Cameron Humphries
never had Peck as a teacher but said that he had wrote letters
to the administration concerning her actions in opposition to
the Spectator. .

“She called me a racist and a sexist in her class; my

friends [who were her students] told me,” he said. “She said
bad things about Robert E. Lee. I agree with the English
departrnent-. You have to respect the English department.
They have over 100 years of tenure between them.”

Some believe that the tradition of age and strict confor-
mity to the rules is the problem.

“You are meant to sit, sit quiet and accept the decisions
they make,” said Lynch “They think that the responsibility
of the faculty is to perpetuate itself—it should be to serve the
students...and’ where is there any place that people are
served that they don’t have a say?”

Elrod spoke of the concerns of the students who disliked
the decisions about Lynch and Peck.

“When students develop relationships with the profes-
sors, it is sometimes hard for them to understand what we
have to do,” he said. “It is sometimes a colossal disappoint-
ment. You don’t want to have to sacrifice quality. We are
always trying to get the best people we possibly , can.
[Students] must have confidence in the processes that are
carefully worked out and almost slavishly abided by.”

According to the Faculty Handbook, teaching quality is
a consideration in personnel decision s, but the only students
who would comment on, the record about Peck’s teaching
were very supportive.

“She is a very good teacher,” said junior Alex Ruskell,
one of Peck’s students. “She really knows her material. She
is good at engaging students in discussion and very willing
to go through students’ viewpoints.”

Comer elaborated. _

“I learned more from her than I have from any other
teacher,” he said “You really had to work to do well, but I
enjoyed it.” A

Junior Maurice Cole, a non-English major who took one
of Peck’s classes to fulfill a general education requirement
and was one student asked to write a letter to the department,

had a positive response to her class.

“I highly applaud her professionalism and teaching abil-
ity,” Cole said. “She provided an informative and interest-
ing leaming environment for her students. She greatly
inﬂuenced me.”

Because the department would not comment on their
reasons for confidentiality purposes, students and faculty
criticized the system.

“There is a conspiracy of silence which leads you to
believe that your professors are above reproach,” said
Lynch. “Faculty should be absolutely accountable. It has to
do with power.
Knowledge is
power, and the lack
of knowledge is
weakness. [The ad-
ministration]
knows that and
they’re holding the
cards.”

Elrod defended
the administration.

“You might not
agree with the out-
come, but you can
understand its le-
gitimacy,” he said.

Lynch believed
the students should
be allowed more of
a reaction.

“[The students]
have a voice,” he said. “To be persuaded that you do not is
the biggest disservice anyone could do to you.”

Concerns of members of the university community in-

 

Peck

cluded the possibility that some individuals in the adminis-
tration and faculty do not want to perpetuate the different
views of professors such as Peck and Lynch. Administrators
said that this was not a factor.

“I’m enthusiastically committed to Washington and Lee,”
said Peck. “And nothing is more important than the optn
exchange of ideas.”

Lynch agreed.

“The life of the mind is about a certain engaged disagree— I

merit,” he said.

Hurnphries, however, criticized Peck for her ideas.

“She was openly very skeptical of the university,” he
said. “She was embarrassing to the university.” 0

A few voiced the opinion that the Peck decision was
partly motivated by her defense of Lynch.

“I think it was a political act of the department because
she stood up for Professor Lynch,” said Ruskell,

“If someone is to be punished for standing behind some-
one who has been punished for a particular unwillingness to
sit at anyone’s feet, I don’tsee how we can think of ourselves
as living in afree country or ata free institution,” said Lynch.

Currently, students do not have any way to appeal the
decision of the department.

“ [Students should not] think that in-house candidates are
privileged to appointments,” said Elrod. “I am always
willing to talk to students and to help them appreciate the
process, and understand that it has integrity and is profe§-
sional.”

For the most part, Peck was sorry about the decision and
its results.

“I’m very sorry to have to look for a new job or to leave
the profession-altogether,” she said. “[My husband, Profes-
sor Kenneth of the computer science department, and I] like
Lexington and we would be very sorry to leave. .

“Teaching is one of the passionate joys of my life.”

 

Hams Teeter  
IAN5 LOW PRICES

, I REDUCED PRICE
 U.S.D.A. CHOICE

- UsE OF EEORD "‘ B
.ELE-BAsTING GRADE "A"

I URKE

‘  ~-
‘ J" .1 J

LIMIT 3 PLEASE
WITH ADDITIONAL

I REAST ".‘T'.‘.‘.".‘.‘.‘.‘

LB..

CALIFORNIA

TREsII
STRAWBERRIES

2 HR.

REDUCED
PRICE

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

.99

 WORK AT
«THE BEACH!

OUR MYRTLE BEACH
I AND HILTON HEAD
\ LOCATIONS ARE
NOW HIRING FOR
  THE SUMMER.
I INTEREsTED, APPLY AT THE
. YRTLE BEACH AND HILTON
I D AD LOCATIONs OR MAIL
APPLICATION TO: ,,w>ég,L?;¥;,g

_._  .‘>

~-~ /e-\; .
JERRY ALLEN ‘
HARRIS TEETER, INC.
LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER
ROUTE 2, BOX 288
LITCHFIELD, s.C. 29585

I‘I3II'IST08I'BI’
A GREAT PLACE TO WORK!

LARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

SOFT

DRINKS .................. ..2 LTR. O

4 ROLL PACK

NORTHERN BATH

TISSUE ............ .; ..... ..l54 so. FT. 0

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE BLUE CORN

TORTILLA

CHIP5..

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE HOT OR MILD

SALSA

.................... ..7 OZ. O

2/

PICANTE ............ .. l 5.5 oz.

89

EXTRA STRENGTH
TYLENOL
GELCAPS

99

50 C11

UNTER ALL NATURAL
VANILLA
ICE CREAM

4 OT. PAIL

TROPICANA
ORANGE
JUICE

.40.. I19

Pices Effective Throudcgh Maqy

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, May 5 Through Tues

May ll, 19

II, I993

. In Lexlngton Stores

OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To eoIers. We GIodIy Accept I-edera! Food Stamps.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1993

K\

Sporting alternative to golf
exhilarates skeet enthusiasts

By TOM HESPOS
Phi News Editor

You stand in a wooden enclosure,
surrounded by the trees, rocks and other
plant life that is characteristic of the
nearly untouched Virginia wilderness.
The stock of your shotgun is resting
underneath your arm as you wait for
your target. It ﬂies overhead and you
raise the gun to your shoulder, lining
up the sights. A fraction of a second
later, you firmly squeeze the trigger
and a sharp re-

a different shooting angle, shooting
distance or target speed. Walking
through the woods in between stations
was very relaxing and addedadifferent
dimension of enjoyment to the sport,
much like walking a golf course. Of
course, measures are taken to insure
that a loaded gun never leaves the shoot-
ing station; your bolt must remain open
and the safety must be engaged before
moving on to the next station.

When a shooter arrives at a station,
a plaque will tell the shooter what kind
of target to expect. At times, multiple

that this is no reason to be intimidated.
He said most beginners shoot 20 out of
50 on their first try. Later, they work
their way up to the low or mid-30's.

According to Salb’s course bro-
chure, Sporting Clays was created in
Great Britain in the mid-1920’s. Only
recently has the sport become popular
in this country. Quail Ridge is one of
12 courses in Virginia and is situated a
mere six miles from Lexington, whic
could make Sporting Clays a popul
sport among students. ‘

In order to shoot the course, a shooter _

needs his own

port echoes
through the
woods... a direct
hit!

Sound like
hunting? Well, it
isn’t. Sporting
Clays is the fast-
est growing shot-
gun sport in the
country. Chris
Salb is a local
enthusiast who
recently opened
Quail Ridge
Sporting Clays
on 60 acres of his
own land in
R o c k b r i d g e
County.

12 gauge or
smaller shot-
gun that can
fire two or
more shells
without re-
loading. Also
needed are 50
light load
shells consist-
ing of shot no
largerthan71/
2. Eyeandear
protection is
required.
Special at-
tention is paid
to firearm
safety rules.

Salb likens
Sporting Clays to “golf with a shot-
gun.” Shooters walk through his half-
mile course, stopping at wooden shoot-
ing stations to fire at clay targets that
mimic different species of game. The
stations are nicely set into the sur-
rounding wilderness and are given
names that reflect the types of game
that the targets mimic.

For instance, a station called “Bolt-
ing Rabbits” involves shooting at grey-
colored targets that bounce along the
ground in front of the shooter. Other
stations mimic quail, geese and other
types of game.

Salb invited Phi Staffers Sarah Gil- -

bert and Tom Hespos to shoot the course
in order to get a feel for the sport. Salb
demonstrated that Sporting Clays is
the closest you can get to actual hunt-
ing, and you don’t even need a license.

The course has twelve different
shooting stations, each of which offers

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

TRACK AND FIELD

Washington and Lee’s men's track
team is still alive and kicking, as its
400—meter relay team proved Saturday
at the University of North Carolina.

Already qualified provisionally for
the National Collegiate Athletic Asso-
ciation championships, the team low-
ered its time to 42.38 seconds at the
UNC Twilight meet. Its former best
time was 42.46, set one week prior to
the faster time.

Eight one-hundredths of a second
may seem like nothing, but for the
Genreals it is that much closer to a
chance at running at Baldwin-Wallace
College in Berea, Ohio.

Juniors Scott Covey and John
Robinson, sophomore Hayne Hodges
and freshman Dax Mahoney will find
out Sunday if they will be selected to
compete at the NCAA meet, May 26-
29.

WOMEN’S LACROSSE

Washington and Lee’s all—time lead-
ing scorer is also the leading scorer in
the United States, and will represent
Washington and Lee in the annual
North-South lacrosse all-star game.

Senior Lisa Dowling, the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Player of
the Year, was selected as an alternate
for the South's team.

The game, to be played on June 18
at Johns Hopkins University, is made
up of players from Divisions 1, II and
III.

Dowling was one of only 40 players
and six alternates chosen. Of these, just
16 were from Division III schools.

targets will come out of the woods and
the shooter has to know what to expect.
The stations are constructed in such a
way that the shooter can only move the
barrel of his gun within a certain range.
This guards against wild shots.

At the station Salb calls “Cupped
Geese,” shooters stand in a mock blind,
facing a group of decoys. When the
shooter calls “pull,” two targets come
from overhead and descend slowly,
much like they would if they were
actual geese descending on a pond.
Sarah and I managed to hit 50 percent
on this station.

Salb says that his course will humble
even the mostexperienced skeet shoot-
ers.

“N 0 one ever gets a perfect score in
Sporting Clays,” he said.

Even some Olympic-class shooters
who have shot on his course are lucky
to have shot 45 out of 50. But Salb said

Guns may not
be loaded un-
less the shooter is standing inside the
shooting stand. A shooter may not
leave the stand until his bolt is open and
his safety is engaged.

Salb is prepared to offer personal
instruction. His field office sells shot-
gun shells and accessories. Later plans
for Quail Ridge include a pro shop and
club house, where shooters can kick
back and relax after a round of shoot-
1ng.

Prices are as follows: l-2 shoot-
ers—$14.00 apiece. 3-6 shooters-
$12.50 apiece. A second round of
shooting is offered at the reduced rate
of $11.00.

The course is open every day, save
Tuesday. All shooting is done by ap-
pointment. Call (703) 463-1800 for
more information.

PhiSportsEditorSarah Gilbert con-
tributed to this story. She only shot
marginally worse than I did.

Lisa Dowling

Photo by Siri Sitton, special to the Ring-tum Phi

Tommy Morrison takes a break from his May 19 exhibition.

‘Duke’ faces Foreman June 7

I ElFrom DUKE, page 8

“I’m like the little pink Energizer

bunny,” he said. “It just keeps on go-
mg.”
He indeed keeps on going, through
nine hours of training every day, in-
cluding sparring, running, stomach
work and weightlifting.

“The thing about being a heavy-
weight is that boxing is not only a
spectator sport, but also show busi-
ness,” Morrison said. “Not only do you
have to do good, but you have to look
good.”

And Morrison does look good~at
least, good enough to be a movie star
(and he has yet to complete the final
two movies in his original three-movie
contract with United Artists) and good
enough to be considered the “golden
boy” of the boxing world.

“Being a white heavyweight, I get
paid more than all the black guys,” he
said. “I get more attention, but also
more criticism because the media is
focused on me.”

If Morrison comes victorious from

his June 7 fight, he will have even more
media attention as well as even more
money.

He just accepted an offer from Brit-
ish heavyweight Lennox Lewis, pend-
ing a victory over Foreman. If this
event transpires, the two fighters will
geta50-50 splitof all the pay-per-view
proceeds.

Endorsement opportunities for a
world champion will also be outstand-
ing, and Morrison is eagerly expecting
these.

“Any money you can make without
getting punched in the face is good
money,” he said. ‘

For now, though, Morrison is con-
centrating on thejob at hand, preparing
for Foreman here in quiet, distraction-
free Lexington.

“This guy is so slow—but he hits
hard,” said Morrison. “If you make a
mistake, you could be in trouble.”

If computer—generated match—ups
are any indication, Morrison will not
be in any trouble. Sixteen of 20 elec-
tronic ﬁghts were decided in favor of
“The Duke.”

Keep on going, Tommy.

 

 Last Week:

PAGE8

 

  

   
    
    
   
      
    
     
   
    
   
   
   
   

   

 
 

        
    
      
      
   
         
    
      
     
 
      
 
    
 
   
   
 
       
 
    
 
 
      
   
      
    
   
   
 

MLax--Ohio Wesleyan 8, W&L 7 .
WTennis—at NCAA Champs.

    
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
     
    
   
   
 
    
   
 
   
    
   
   
 
    
    
    
 
    
   
 
    
      
      
   
   
 

 

@112 Ring-mm iﬁlti

PORTS  

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK & FIELD

ennis guru achieves All-American

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

“...to boldly go where no
one has gone before...”

Sophomore Marilyn Baker
may indeed be a member of
the ”next generation,” even if
she can not make any claim to
seeking out new life and new
civilizations like the crew of
the Starship Enterprise. She
became the ﬁrst Washington
and Lee woman ever to ad-
vance to the round of eight
and be named All-American
in tennis.

Competing at Carleton
College in St. Paul, Minne-
sota last weekend, Baker won
two of three rounds in the
National Collegiate Athletic
Association Division III tour-
nament. She lost to the even-
tual second-place athlete.

NCAA tourney trip
ends tough way

By Krarm GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

 

Marilyn Baker

Herﬁrst match was against
Gina Peleggi of Trenton State,
who was seeded17tl1 nation-
ally. Baker, the 12th seed,
dominated Peleggi easily, 6-
2, 6-3.

Her second-round draw
was Toshimi Sugimoto,
seeded 4th in the nation and

The dream season for the Washington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse
team came to a heartbreaking end Sunday following an 8-7 loss to
Ohio Wesleyan University.

Ohio Wesleyan scored four times in the first seven minutes of the
fourth quarter and fought off a furious assault by the Generals’
offense in the ﬁnal minutes. By earning their sixth straight win over
W&L, the Battling Bishops advanced to this weekend’s NCAA
Division III semi—finals.

The Generals (12-3) had received a tournament bid after defeating
4th-ranked Roanoke College, 9-8, for the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship. W&L followed that up with an 18-3
embarrassment of VMI one day before the Division HI tournament
bids were announced.

In Washington and Lee’s two prior appearances in the Division III
tournament, the Generals were eliminated by Ohio Wesleyan. The
third time was not a charm as W&L traveled to Delaware, Ohio to
face the toumament’s fourth—seeded team in a contest that was
broadcast back to the valley on WLUR-Lexington by Sports Infor-
mation Director Brian Logue and Sports Information intern Jay
Plotkin.

Seniors Wiemi Douoguih and John Hunter scored first quarter
goals for W&L, but Ohio Wesleyan (11-1) answered each one with
a score of their own to end the first 15 minutes at 2-2. Although both
teams averaged more than 15 goals per game during the season,
neither one could find the back of the net again before halftime.

After 25 minutes of scoreless play, junior Colin Higgins tallied his
eleventh goal of the season mid-way through the third to put the
Generals back ahead, 3-2. Unfortunately, it would be W&L’s last

lead. 1

Trailing 4-3, W&L got another goal from Douoguih to knot the
game at four going into the ﬁnal session. The goal was the 100th of
Douoguih’s career.

In the fourth quarter, the ﬂoodgates opened. Six goals were scored
in the first seven minutes of the final period after only eight were
recorded through 45 minutes.

Coming into the game, W&L had allowed more goals in the fourth
quarter than in any other period. Sure enough, the Bishops scored

twice in the ﬁrst 65 seconds to take a two goal lead. Although the -

Generals would come within a goal three times, Ohio Wesleyan
answered each time to maintain the lead. With fewer than seven
minutes remaining, the Bishops led 8-6. I

As several minutes passed without any further scoring, the out-
come looked bleak for W&L. Freshman Russell Croft gave the
Generals hope with 3:20 left as he scored his sixth of the year off a
feed from senior David Leﬂcowitz, but all late attempts to tie were
turned away.

Douoguih and sophomore Scott Mackley each scored in the last
quarter for W&L. _

Although the Generals failed to get past the first-round for the
second straight time, W&L achieved its best season since their 1987
move to Division III. W&L’s 12 wins and 230 goals were the third

‘ most in school history and the best since their Division I glory days
of the mid-seventies. All three Washington and Lee losses came
versus tournament teams: Gettysburg, Washington College, and
Ohio Wesleyan.

Douoguih’s career ends with 101 goals, 50 this season. Both of
those figures are also third-best in the W&L record books.

Senior John Hunter wound up his career with apoint in each of his
last 45 games, dating back to the final game of his freshman year. The
streak was two games short of the school record.

Four years. ago, Hunter’s class joined the roster of a team coming
off of a 4-9 season. Furthermore, the team had no coach. However,
Jim Stagnitta was hired and during the ensuing four seasons, W&L
would accomplish a 41-16 record and two ODAC championships.

Senior goaltender Brian Murtagh finished with an astonishing
.656 save percentage and a devilish 6.66 goals against average.
Murtagh and the Generals defense surrendered only 96 goals all year,
the fewest in 22 years.

Ohio Wesleyan will now face Washington College in the semi-
finals. Washington knocked off previously undefeated and top-seed
Salisbury St. last week.

Jain  

/l3“"*F*‘» wpk-M~*TR.
‘D")‘t%:"'l’ t» Q-ltjne t

‘*1 ‘-is

6.

also in the east. Sugimoto and
Baker had met earlier in the
season, and the former was
victorious in three sets.

Baker was not to be de-
feated by the past, however,
and upset Sugimoto in two
sets, 7-5, 6-4.

In quarterfinals, the All-
American status guaranteed,
Baker was topped by
Kenyon’s Katja Zerck, the
fifth seed.

Zerck, who overpowered
Baker in straight sets, was
also the one who
eliminatedW&L’s very own
tennis superstar from the tour-
nament last year. Zerck also
met Baker earlier this season.

“There were only three
kids in the tournament who
[Baker] had played, and we
ended up drawing two of
three," said her coach, Cinda
Rankin.

Zerck advanced to the fi-
nals of the toumament and
ﬁnished in second place.

Rankin was enthusiastic
about Baker’s performance.

“It was, so exciting for us,”
she said. “Marilyn played re-
ally smart.

“The girl she layed [in
the second roundlpwas a ﬁ-
nesse player, and Marilyn just
played better than she did.”

Even though this stellar
season is barely over, Baker
and her coach are looking
eagerly forward to next year,
both individually and as a
team.

“We have a great recruit-
ing class,” said Rankin. “Our
slogan for next year is ‘We’ll
be there.”’

Team competition in the
NCAA tournament is played
at the beginning of the week
and singles and doubles at the

 

This Week:
MTennis—at NCAA Champs.
Track-at NCAA Champs. '

 
    

end. Rankin believes that
there is some advantage to
playing in both portions of
the tournament.

“When the girls play ear-
lier in the week, they have
time to get settled down and
their games are peaking by
the time they get to the indi-
vidual competition,” she said.

Baker’s coach has high
hopes for her next year in the
singles compeition as well as,
hopefully, leading her team
to the tournament.

“Next year looks very
bright,” Rankin said. “The
goal has been to get to an-
other round.

”She’s playing extremely
well thanks to all the people
on campus who have helped
her ame, such as [assistant
pro essor of Japanese
Ken’ichi] Ujie and [Law li-
brarian] John Jacobs. You

  
 
    
   
   
      
    
      

MAY 20, 1993

I

never know.”

Kudos go‘ to these rrk
bers of the faculty who ha _
sacriﬁced theirtime fora go ‘
cause, W&L’s ﬁrst fem:
tennis All—American. Rani
has plarmed a mixed doubt
tournament for these prof:
sors,many of theircolleaglrt
and the women’s tennis tear

The May 26-27 event wi
include performances fro
such faculty stars as Dea
Lero Atkins, Dav
HowrsonDennis Mannii
and Lad Sessions. Seile
Washington and Lee pro} - --
sors will also partici ate.

Baker hopes to in ormz
extend her stellar record I
General of W&L at r I
weekend»s toumamer t.
career record is now 41-
ter achieving a season re
of204 during this year’r
son.

     
      
   
   
   
     
    
    
 
 

  

     
    
      

   
    
     
    
    
      
   

Heavyweight Tommy Morrison, contender for the World Championshl
sparring partners during an open work-out held at Virginia Military Ins

‘The Duke’ reigns at VMl

“Besides, there’s absolutely nothing to

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

“Rock-y! Rock-yl Rock—y!”

Boxing fans in Philadephia and all over
the world may be singing a different tune if
Lexington’s quiet atmosphere has done
what Tommy Morrison hopes it will do.

Morrison, the professional boxer whose
role in the movie Rocky V catapulted him
into the heart and soul of the boxing world,

George Foreman.

has been training at Virginia Military Insti-
tute. Under the tutelage of Tommy Virgets,
a trainer who coached several sports at
VMI in the early eighties, Morrison has
been preparing for his upcoming World
Championship bout against heavyweight

“The Duke” will face Foreman in Las
Vegas June 7. Morrison, whose profes-
sional record is 35-1, calls himself by that
nickname because he is the great grand-
nephew of John Wayne.

Photo by Siri Sitton, special to the Ring-tum Phi ‘
Morrison spars with cruiserweight Vincent Boulware great environment
in Wednesday's exhibition.

do here.”

~His appelation
in Rocky V was
“Great White ~
Hope,” but he pre-
fers to stay away
from that name.

“First of all, it’s
racist,” Morrison
said. “And I con-
sider myself a bet-
ter fighter than the
others who have
been called “Great
Whites.”

He has already
risen far above the
records of the mar-
ginal great whites of
the world. In fact,
he came to Lexing-
ton to get away from
distractions of the
media and of social
pressures.

“lt’s great to
train [at VMI] be-
cause you wake up
every day and see
people that are
working just as hard
as you are,”

Morrison said. “Ev-
eryone shares the
same desire and mo-
tivation, and it’s a

man.

Photo by Sir: Sittn, spcia o t e
p title, squares Off against one Of his
titute’s Cameron Hall May 19

Looking toward his fight against Fore-
man, Morrison is very optimistic.

“I’m excited, and there are very few
fights that come along that boxers geﬁ
excited about,” he said. “George is a huge
part of American boxing history; a lot of
people in the business consider him the
eighth wonder of the world.” ’

Morrison compared competing against
Foreman to the fantasy baseball games
where the aged and retired legends coma
pete against fans. “This is the same sort of
situation; I‘m fighting against the legend
of boxing,” he said.

“The Duke” considers the upcoming
bout to be the biggest fight of his career.

“Of course, your most important fight
is always your next fight,” he said. .

He hopes that his strategy will take
advantage of his greater quickness, and he
also intends to use the old boxing trick of
capitalizing on the moment when one’s
opponent leaves his chin unprotected.

“l have an advantage there, because
where as I only have one chin,” he said,
”George has two!” .

All jokes aside, Morrison is doing his
best to guard against every possible weak-
ness, as he demonstrated in his exhibition
work—out at VMI’ s Cameron Hall Wednes-
day night. One of his sparring partners,

Vincent Boulware, is a cruiserweight
whose quickness is intended to help
Morrison exploit his advantage over Fore-
man in" this area. The other, 320-pound
Robert “Ironwood” Smith, might be con-
sidered aextra—sized body double for Fore-

His final demonstration was a five-
minute ordeal in which his coach hit him as‘
hard as he could so, as Virgets told him in ‘
the ring, the boxer would “learn how to
take heavyweight punches.”

Morrison’s secret strategy?

  

ng-tum

 

to train in.

  

Cisee DUKE, page 7.

  

  

